Wake-promoting and sleep-suppressing actions of hypocretin (orexin): basal forebrain sites of action.	The hypocretins (orexins) are a newly identified peptide family comprised of two peptides, hypocretin-1 and hypocretin-2. Recent observations suggest an involvement of these peptides in the regulation of behavioral state. For example, these peptides are found in a variety of brain regions associated with the regulation of forebrain neuronal and behavioral activity states. Furthermore, when infused into the lateral ventricles in awake animals, hypocretin-1 elicits increased duration of waking beyond that observed in vehicle-treated animals. Previous studies have been limited to an examination of the sleep-wake effects of hypocretin-1 in awake animals. Currently, the sleep-wake effects of hypocretin-2 and the extent to which hypocretins can initiate waking in the sleeping animal remain unclear. To better characterize the wake-promoting actions of the hypocretins, the current studies examined the sleep-wake effects of varying doses (0.007, 0.07 and 0.7 nmol) of hypocretin-1 and hypocretin-2 when administered into sleeping rats (e.g. remote-controlled infusions). Infusions of hypocretin-1 and hypocretin-2 into the lateral ventricles elicited a short latency (0.7 nmol hypocretin-1; 93+/-30 s from the start of the 120-s infusion) increase in electroencephalographic, electromyographic, and behavioral indices of waking. These infusions also produced substantial decreases in slow-wave and rapid-eye movement sleep. Hypocretin-1 was more potent than hypocretin-2 in these actions. Interestingly, hypocretin-1 infused into the fourth ventricle elicited less robust waking which occurred with a longer latency than infusions into the lateral ventricles. These latter observations suggest a forebrain site of action participates in hypocretin-1-induced waking. Within the forebrain, a variety of basal forebrain structures, including the medial preoptic area, the medial septal area and the substantia innominata, receive a moderate hypocretin innervation. Therefore, additional studies examined the sleep-wake effects of bilateral hypocretin-1 infusions into these basal forebrain structures. Robust increases in waking were observed following infusions into, but not outside, the medial septal area, the medial preoptic area and the substantia innominata. These results indicate a potentially prominent role of hypocretins in sleep-wake regulation via actions within certain basal forebrain structures and are consistent with studies indicating a prominent role of hypocretins in sleep/arousal disorders.
Appositions between cocaine and amphetamine-related transcript- and gonadotropin releasing hormone-immunoreactive neurons in the hypothalamus of the Siberian hamster.	Recent in vitro studies have provided evidence that cocaine and amphetamine-related transcript (CART) pathways in the hypothalamus mediate the effects of leptin upon gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) secretion. The aim of the current study was to use dual label immunofluorescence to investigate the anatomical basis of such a pathway. CART-ir processes were found extensively in regions where GnRH cell bodies where located. Analysis using confocal microscopy showed that the majority of GnRH neurons (62%) had close appositions from CART-ir processes. The proportion of GnRH-ir perikarya with CART-ir appositions was significantly higher (P<0.05) in neurons located in the diagonal band of Broca (70%) compared to those more caudally located in the preoptic area (53%). This anatomical evidence for close appositions between CART-ir processes and GnRH cell bodies supports the hypothesis that one mechanism by which leptin causes its effect on the GnRH pulse generator is indirectly via CART neurons, thus allowing information about nutritional status and body fat stores to be conveyed to the reproductive system.
Forebrain neurons with collateral projections to both the interstitial nucleus of the posterior limb of the anterior commissure and the nucleus of the solitary tract in the rat.	The interstitial nucleus of the posterior limb of the anterior commissure (IPAC) receives inputs from several autonomic/limbic regions in the forebrain, including the agranular insular cortex, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the amygdaloid complex, and the lateral hypothalamic area. We sought to identify the distribution of afferent sources to the IPAC and to determine whether these IPAC projection fibers issue collaterals to the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), the principal relay of primary visceral afferents. Two fluorescent tracers, FluoroGold and FluoroRed, were centered stereotaxically on the IPAC and the NTS on chloral hydrate-anesthetized Sprague-Dawley rats. Although the majority of IPAC and NTS afferents were spatially segregated, small but substantial numbers of dually labeled neurons (three to four cells/section) were observed in the dorsal bank of the posterior agranular insular cortex, exclusively in layer V. Collateral projection neurons were also found in the posterior part of the lateral hypothalamic area (two to six cells/section). The branching projections identified here may represent a potential link between affective or motivated behavior and viscerosensory processing.
The paradoxically high reactivity of septal neurons in hibernating ground squirrels to endogenous neuropeptides is lost after chronic deafferentation of the septum from the preopticohypothalamic areas.	The effect of neuropeptides (TSKYR, TSKY and DY) and neurotransmitters (serotonin and noradrenaline) on the activity of medial septum (MS) neurons from the brain of summer wakening ground squirrels (WGS), hibernating ground squirrels (HGS), and hibernating ground squirrels with the undercut septum (UHGS) was studied. It was shown that in HGS, the neuropeptides were substantially more effective in modulating the spontaneous activity of MS neurons than in WGS. The undercutting of MS led to the disappearance of the increased responsiveness to the neuropeptides: in UHGS, neuropeptide-induced changes in the spontaneous activity became nearly identical to those in WGS. The decrease in MS responsiveness in UHGS is due mainly to pacemaker neurons, which cease to respond to the peptides. It was shown that the neuropeptides have a dual effect: they change the level of spontaneous activity through direct modulation of pacemaker potential and control responses to electrical stimulation by modulating the synaptic transmission. Contrary to neuropeptides, neurotransmitters were highly effective in neurons of all groups of animals. Presumably, the enhanced excitability of MS during hibernation, which is necessary for performing the 'sentry post' function, is formed under the influence of the preopticohypothalamic area, and this influence is mediated by peptides.
Circulating angiotensin II activates neurones in circumventricular organs of the lamina terminalis that project to the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis.	The aim of this study was to determine, in conscious rats, whether elevated concentrations of circulating angiotensin II activate neurones in both the subfornical organ and organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis (OVLT) that project to the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST). The strategy employed was to colocalize retrogradely transported cholera toxin B subunit (CTB) from the BNST, with elevated levels of Fos protein in response to angiotensin II. Circulating angiotensin II concentrations were increased by either intravenous infusion of angiotensin II or subcutaneous injection of isoproterenol. Neurones exhibiting Fos in response to angiotensin II were present in the subfornical organ, predominantly in its central core but with some also seen in its peripheral aspect, the dorsal and lateral margins of the OVLT, the supraoptic nucleus and the parvo- and magnocellular divisions of the paraventricular nucleus. Fos-labelling was not apparent in control rats infused with isotonic saline intravenously or injected with either CTB or CTB conjugated to gold particles (CTB-gold) only. Of the neurones in the subfornical organ that were shown by retrograde labelling to project to BNST, approximately 50% expressed Fos in response to isoproterenol. This stimulus also increased Fos in 33% of neurones in the OVLT that project to BNST. Double-labelled neurones were concentrated in the central core of the subfornical organ and lateral margins of the OVLT in response to increased circulating angiotensin II resulting from isoproterenol treatment. These data support a role for circulating angiotensin II acting either directly or indirectly on neurones in subfornical organ and OVLT that project to the BNST and provide further evidence of functional regionalization within the subfornical organ and the OVLT. The function of these pathways is yet to be determined; however, a role in body fluid homeostasis is possible.
Characterisation of hyperpolarization-activated currents (I(h)) in the medial septum/diagonal band complex in the mouse.	Hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide gated (HCN) channel subunits are distributed widely, but selectively, in the central nervous system, and underlie hyperpolarization-activated currents (I(h)) that contribute to rhythmicity in a variety of neurons. This study investigates, using current and voltage-clamp techniques in brain slices from young mice, the properties of I(h) currents in medial septum/diagonal band (MS/DB) neurons. Subsets of neurons in this complex, including GABAergic and cholinergic neurons, innervate the hippocampal formation, and play a role in modulating hippocampal theta rhythm. In support of a potential role for I(h) in regulating MS/DB firing properties and consequently hippocampal neuron rhythmicity, I(h) currents were present in around 60% of midline MS/DB complex neurons. The I(h) currents were sensitive to the selective blocker ZD7288 (10 microM). The I(h) current had a time constant of activation of around 220 ms (at -130 mV), and tail current analysis revealed a half-activation voltage of -98 mV. Notably, the amplitude and kinetics of I(h) currents in MS/DB neurons were insensitive to the cAMP membrane permeable analogue 8-bromo-cAMP (1 mM), and application of muscarine (100 microM). Immunofluoresence using antibodies against HCN1, 2 and 4 channel subunits revealed that all three HCN subunits are expressed in neurons in the MS/DB, including neurons that express the calcium binding protein parvalbumin (marker of fast spiking GABAergic septo-hippocampal projection neurons). The results demonstrate, for the first time, that specific HCN channel subunits are likely to be coexpressed in subsets of MS/DB neurons, and that the resultant I(h) currents show both similarities, and differences, to previously described I(h) currents in other CNS neurons.
Distribution and acute stressor-induced activation of corticotrophin-releasing hormone neurones in the central nervous system of Xenopus laevis.	In mammals, corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) and related peptides are known to play essential roles in the regulation of neuroendocrine, autonomic and behavioural responses to physical and emotional stress. In nonmammalian species, CRH-like peptides are hypothesized to play similar neuroendocrine and neurocrine roles. However, there is relatively little detailed information on the distribution of CRH neurones in the central nervous system (CNS) of nonmammalian vertebrates, and there are currently no comparative data on stress-induced changes in CRH neuronal physiology. We used a specific, affinity-purified antibody raised against synthetic Xenopus laevis CRH to map the distribution of CRH in the CNS of juvenile South African clawed frogs. We then analysed stress-induced changes in CRH immunoreactivity (CRH-ir) throughout the CNS. We found that CRH-positive cell bodies and fibres are widely distributed throughout the brain and rostral spinal cord of juvenile X. laevis. Strong CRH-immunoreactivity (ir) was found in cell bodies and fibres in the anterior preoptic area (POA, an area homologous to the mammalian paraventricular nucleus) and the external zone of the median eminence. Specific CRH-ir cell bodies and fibres were also identified in the septum, pallium and striatum in the telencephalon; the amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and various hypothalamic and thalamic nuclei in the diencephalon; the tectum, torus semicircularis and tegmental nuclei of the mesencephalon; the cerebellum and locus coeruleus in the rhombencephalon; and the ventral horn of the rostral spinal cord. To determine if exposure to an acute physical stressor alters CRH neuronal physiology, we exposed juvenile frogs to shaking/handling and conducted morphometric analysis. Plasma corticosterone was significantly elevated by 30 min after exposure to the stressor and continued to increase up to 6 h. Morphometric analysis of CRH-ir after 4 h of stress showed a significant increase in CRH-ir in parvocellular neurones of the anterior preoptic area, the medial amygdala and the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, but not in other brain regions. The stress-induced increase in CRH-ir in the POA was associated with increased Fos-like immunoreactivity (Fos-LI), and confocal microscopy showed that CRH-ir colocalized with Fos-LI in a subset of Fos-LI-positive neurones. Our results support the view that the basic pattern of CNS CRH expression arose early in vertebrate evolution and lend further support to earlier studies suggesting that amphibians may be a transitional species for descending CRH-ergic pathways. Furthermore, CRH neurones in the frog brain exhibit changes in response to a physical stressor that parallel those seen in mammals, and thus are likely to play an active role in mediating neuroendocrine, behavioural and autonomic stress responses.
5-HT1A receptor mRNA and immunoreactivity in the rat medial septum/diagonal band of Broca-relationships to GABAergic and cholinergic neurons.	Activation of 5-HT1A receptors results in a variety of physiological responses, depending on their localization on neurons with different phenotypes in the brain. This study investigated the localization of 5-HT1A receptor mRNA and 5-HT1A receptor immunoreactivity in cell bodies of the rat septal complex using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. In adjacent sections of the medial septum/diagonal band of Broca (MSDB), the distribution of cell bodies expressing 5-HT1A receptor mRNA was closely related to cells labeled with oligonucleotide probes to GAD (glutamic acid decarboxylase), VAChT (vesicular acetylcholine transporter) or parvalbumin mRNA. Using antiserum to GAD and antibodies to GABA, 5-HT1A receptor immunoreactivity was demonstrated in a majority of GABAergic cells in the MSDB. 5-HT1A receptor-immunoreactive GABAergic cells in the MSDB were also demonstrated to contain the calcium-binding protein parvalbumin, a marker for septohippocampal projecting GABAergic neurons. In the lateral septum, 5-HT1A receptor immunoreactivity was colocalized with the calcium-binding protein calbindin D-28k, a marker for septal GABAergic somatospiny neurons. 5-HT1A receptor immunoreactivity was also detected in a subpopulation of VAChT-containing cholinergic neurons of the MSDB. In MSDB neurons, colocalization of 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A receptor immunoreactivities was demonstrated. These observations suggest that serotonin via 5-HT1A receptors may represent an important modulator of hippocampal transmission important for cognitive and emotional functions through actions on both GABAergic and cholinergic neurons of the rat septal complex. In addition, 5-HT may exert its effects in the MSDB via cells expressing both 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A receptors.
Projection from the ventral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis to the retrorubral field in rats and the effects of cells in these areas on mating in male rats versus gerbils.	This research identified the rat counterpart of the lateral cell group of the sexually dimorphic area (SDA) found in medial preoptic area (MPOA) gerbil of gerbils. The lateral SDA (lSDA) is critical for mating in male gerbils and contains most of the SDA cells projecting to the retrorubral field (RRF), a projection that is also important for mating. Therefore, to locate the counterpart of the lateral SDA, we traced the inputs to the rat RRF, which were dense in the ventral part of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST). To determine if the ventral BST or its projection to the RRF affects mating in male rats, we disrupted them bilaterally by placing cell-body lesions bilaterally in the ventral BST or unilaterally there and in the contralateral RRF. We also studied the effects of RRF lesions in both rats and gerbils. Bilateral ventral BST lesions, which left the medial preoptic nucleus intact, produced persistent and severe mating deficits. Disconnecting the ventral BST from the RRF also had long-lasting, but less severe, consequences. RRF lesions produced only temporary mating deficits in rats, but virtually eliminated mating in gerbils. The recovery of mating in rats after RRF, but not ventral BST, lesions, and the intermediate effects of disconnecting these areas from each other suggest that the ventral BST may contain mating-related projection neurons other than those projecting to the RRF or that its RRF-projecting cells send collaterals to another site. In either case, the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus or raphe nuclei may be involved.
Sex and species differences in tyrosine hydroxylase-synthesizing cells of the rodent olfactory extended amygdala.	The bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST) and the medial amygdala (MeA) are anatomically connected sites necessary for chemosensory regulation of social behaviors in rodents. Prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster) are a valuable model for studying the neural regulation of social behaviors because, unlike many other rodents, they are gregarious, pair bond after copulating, and are biparental. We herein describe sex and species differences in immunoreactivity for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the rate-limiting enzyme for catecholamine synthesis, in the BST and MeA. Virgin male prairie voles had a large number of TH-immunoreactive cells in areas analogous to the rat principal nucleus of the BST (pBST) and the posterodorsal medial amygdala (MeAPd). Virgin female prairie voles had far fewer TH-immunoreactive cells in these sites ( approximately 17% of the number of cells as males in the pBST, approximately 35% of the number of cells in the MeAPd). A few TH-immunoreactive cells were found in the BST of male and female hamsters and meadow voles, but not in rats. The MeApd also contained a few TH-immunoreactive cells in male and female hamsters and male meadow voles, but not rats. Castration greatly reduced the number of TH-immunoreactive cells in the male prairie vole pBST and MeAPd, an effect that could be reversed with testosterone. Furthermore, treating ovariectomized females with testosterone substantially increased TH-immunoreactive cells in both sites. Therefore, a species-specific sex difference in TH expression is found in a chemosensory pathway in prairie voles. Expression of TH in these sites is influenced by circulating gonadal hormones in adults, which may be related to changes in their display of social behaviors across the reproductive cycle.
Androgen receptor is essential for sexual differentiation of responses to olfactory cues in mice.	During sexual differentiation males and females are exposed to different levels of testosterone, which promotes sex differences in the adult brain and in behavior. Testosterone can act after aromatization or reduction via a number of steroid hormone receptors. Here we provide new evidence that the androgen receptor (AR) is essential for sexual differentiation in mice. We used mice carrying the testicular feminization (Tfm) mutation of the AR. Adult Tfm males, wild-type male and female littermates were gonadectomized and given subcutaneous estradiol implants. In all sexually dimorphic traits, Tfm males had responses equivalent to females and different from males. In simultaneous choice tests, males spent significantly more time investigating female-soiled bedding, whereas females and Tfm males preferred to investigate male-soiled bedding. Tfm males and females did not have a partner preference in tests with awake stimulus animals, whereas males showed a preference for females over males. Exposure to male-soiled, but not clean, bedding produced a significant increase in c-Fos-immunoreactive cells in the medial preoptic area and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis in Tfm males and females, no increase was noted in males. Masculine sexual behavior (mounting and thrusting) was not sexually dimorphic, and all groups displayed these behaviors. Our results support data collected in humans suggesting a role for the androgen receptor in sexual differentiation of social preferences and neural responses to pheromones.
Development of sex differences in the principal nucleus of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis of mice: role of Bax-dependent cell death.	Neuron number in the principal nucleus of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNSTp) is greater in adult male mice than in females. Deletion of the proapoptotic gene, Bax, increases the number of BNSTp cells in adulthood and eliminates the sex difference in cell number. Here, we map the ontogeny of sex differences in nuclear volume and cell number in the BNSTp of neonatal mice, and evaluate the role of cell death in the development of these differences. We find that BNSTp volume and cell number do not differ between male and female wild-type mice on postnatal days P3, P5, or P7. Sex differences emerge after the first postnatal week and both measures are significantly greater in males than in females on P9 and P11. Cell death, assessed by TUNEL staining, was observed in the BNSTp of both sexes from P1-P8. Females had more TUNEL-positive cells than males from approximately P3-P6, with the maximum number of dying cells observed on P5/P6. To test whether the Bax gene is required for sexually dimorphic cell death in the BNSTp, TUNEL cells were counted on P6 in Bax -/- mice and their Bax +/+ siblings. Bax gene deletion nearly abolished TUNEL-positive cells in the BNSTp of both sexes. Together, these findings support the interpretation that the sex difference in BNSTp cell number seen in adulthood is due to Bax-dependent, sexually dimorphic cell death during the first week of life.
A forebrain-retrorubral pathway involved in male sex behavior is GABAergic and activated with mating in gerbils.	The ventral bed nuclei of the stria terminalis (BST) and medial preoptic nucleus (MPN) of gerbils contain cells that regulate male sex behavior via a largely uncrossed pathway to the retrorubral field (RRF). Our goal was to learn more about cells at the pathway source and target. To determine if the pathway uses GABA as its transmitter, we used immunocytochemistry (ICC) to study glutamic acid decarboxlyase(67) (GAD(67)) colocalization with fluoro-gold (FG) in the ventral BST and MPN after applying FG to the RRF. To determine if the pathway is activated with mating, we studied FG-Fos colocalization in the ventral BST of recently mated males. The ventral BST expresses Fos with mating and is the major pathway source. To determine to what extent other GABAergic cells in the ventral BST are activated with mating, we studied Fos colocalization with GAD(67) mRNA visualized by in situ hybridization (ISH). We also looked for GAD(67) mRNA in RRF cells. Almost all ventral BST and MPNm cells projecting to the RRF (95-97%) and most ventral BST cells activated with mating (89%), were GABAergic. GABAergic cells were also seen in the RRF. RRF-projecting cells represented 37% of ventral BST cells activated with mating. Their activation may reflect arousal and anticipation of sexual reward. Among ventral BST cells that project to the RRF, 14% were activated with mating, consistent with how much of this pathway is needed for mating. The activated GABAergic cells that do not project to the RRF may release GABA locally and inhibit ejaculation.
Nerve growth factor in the hippocamposeptal system: evidence for activity-dependent anterograde delivery and modulation of synaptic activity.	Neurotrophins have been implicated in regulating neuronal differentiation, promoting neuronal survival, and modulating synaptic efficacy and plasticity. The prevailing view is that, depending on the target and mode of action, most neurotrophins can be trafficked and released either anterogradely or retrogradely in an activity-dependent manner. However, the prototypic neurotrophin, nerve growth factor (NGF), is not thought to be anterogradely delivered. Here we provide the neuroanatomical substrate for an anterograde hippocamposeptal transport of NGF by demonstrating its presence in mouse hippocampal GABAergic neurons and in their hippocamposeptal axons that ramify densely and abut neurons in the medial septum/diagonal band of Broca (MS/DB). We also demonstrate an activity-dependent increase in septal NGF levels that is dependent on the pattern of intrahippocampal stimulation. In addition, we show that acute exposure to NGF, via activation of TrkA, attenuates GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibitory synaptic currents and reduces sensitivity to exogenously applied GABA. These acute actions of NGF display cell type and functional selectivity insofar as (1) they were found in cholinergic, but not GABAergic, MS/DB neurons, and (2) glutamate-mediated excitatory synaptic activity as well as AMPA-activated current responses were unaffected. Our results advocate a novel anterograde, TrkA-mediated NGF signaling in the CNS.
Contrasting distribution of physiological cell types in different regions of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis.	We characterized the electroresponsive and morphological properties of neurons in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST). Previously, Rainnie and colleagues distinguished three cell types in the anterolateral region of BNST (BNST-AL): low-threshold bursting cells (LTB; type II) and regular spiking neurons that display time-dependent (RS; type I) or fast (fIR; type III) inward rectification in the hyperpolarizing direction (Hammack SE, Mania I, Rainnie DG. J Neurophysiol 98: 638-56, 2007). We report that the same neuronal types exist in the anteromedial (AM) and anteroventral (AV) regions of BNST. In addition, we observed two hitherto unreported cell types: late-firing (LF) cells, only seen in BNST-AL, that display a conspicuous delay to firing, and spontaneously active (SA) neurons, only present in BNST-AV, firing continuously at rest. However, the feature that most clearly distinguished the three BNST regions was the incidence of LTB cells (approximately 40-70%) and the strength of their bursting behavior (both higher in BNST-AM and AV relative to AL). The incidence of RS cells was similar in the three regions (∼25%), whereas that of fIR cells was higher in BNST-AL (∼25%) than AV or AM (≤8%). With the use of biocytin, two dominant morphological cell classes were identified but they were not consistently related to particular physiological phenotypes. One neuronal class had highly branched and spiny dendrites; the second had longer but poorly branched and sparsely spiny dendrites. Both often exhibited dendritic varicosities. Since LTB cells prevail in BNST, it will be important to determine what inputs set their firing mode (tonic vs. bursting) and in what behavioral states. 
The bed nucleus of the stria terminalis has developmental and adult forms in mice, with the male bias in the developmental form being dependent on testicular AMH.	Canonically, the sexual dimorphism in the brain develops perinatally, with adult sexuality emerging due to the activating effects of pubescent sexual hormones. This concept does not readily explain why children have a gender identity and exhibit sex-stereotypic behaviours. These phenomena could be explained if some aspects of the sexual brain networks have childhood forms, which are transformed at puberty to generate adult sexuality. The bed nucleus of stria terminalis (BNST) is a dimorphic nucleus that is sex-reversed in transsexuals but not homosexuals. We report here that the principal nucleus of the BNST (BNSTp) of mice has developmental and adult forms that are differentially regulated. In 20-day-old prepubescent mice, the male bias in the principal nucleus of the BNST (BNSTp) was moderate (360 ± 6 vs 288 ± 12 calbindin(+ve) neurons, p < 0.0001), and absent in mice that lacked a gonadal hormone, AMH. After 20 days, the number of BNSTp neurons increased in the male mice by 25% (p < 0.0001) and decreased in female mice by 15% (p = 0.0012), independent of AMH. Adult male AMH-deficient mice had a normal preference for sniffing female pheromones (soiled bedding), but exhibited a relative disinterest in both male and female pheromones. This suggests that male mice require AMH to undergo normal social development. The reported observations provide a rationale for examining AMH levels in children with gender identity disorders and disorders of socialization that involve a male bias.
Distribution of AMPA receptor subunit glur1 in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and effect of stress.	The brain circuitry thought to be involved in stress responses includes several nuclei of the extended amygdala. The bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) is thought to be involved in the generation of sustained, nonspecific anxiety. Previous behavioral and electrophysiological experiments demonstrate that glutamate systems are involved in anxiety-like behaviors in the BNST. Antagonists for AMPA receptors injected into the BNST decrease anxiety-like behaviors. However, little is known about the role of AMPA receptors and the mechanism by which they act in the establishment of anxiety-like behavior in response to a stressor. We hypothesized that the distribution of AMPA receptors is changed following a paradigm of unpredictable footshock as has been seen in the basolateral amygdala (BLA). We examined the subcellular localization of the GluR1 subunits of the AMPA receptor. We found that the neuropil of the BNST had a lower density of dendritic spines compared to dendritic shafts in the BLA. The majority of elements immunolabeled for GluR1 were dendritic shafts and spines with axonal and glial elements rarely labeled. Compared with controls, no significant effect was observed on days 1, 6, or 14 poststress. However, there was a trend for an increase at 6 and 14 days poststress. These data demonstrate that GluR1 subunits are primarily located on postsynaptic elements in the BNST. Moreover, it was shown that the response of the AMPA GluR1 subunit does not undergo a significant migration into spines from dendrites in response to a stressor as has been demonstrated in the BLA.
Modulation of HCN channels in lateral septum by nicotine.	The effects of addictive drugs most commonly occur via interactions with target receptors. The same is true of nicotine and its multiple receptors in a variety of cell types. However, there are also side effects for given substances that can dramatically change cellular, tissue, organ, and organism functions. In this study, we present evidence that nicotine possesses such properties, and modulates neuronal excitability. We recorded whole-cell voltages and currents in neurons situated in the dorsal portion of the lateral septum in acute coronal brain slices of adult rats. Our experiments in the lateral septum revealed that nicotine directly affects HCN - hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide gated non-selective cation channels. We demonstrate that nicotine effects persist despite the concurrent application of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors' antagonists - mecamylamine, methyllycaconitine, and dihydro-β-erythroidine. These results are novel in regard to HCN channels in the septum, in general, and in their sensitivity to nicotine, in particular. 
Distinct influences of nerve growth factor and a central cholinergic trophic factor on medial septal explants.	A central cholinergic trophic factor (C-CTF), previously reported in hippocampal extracts, enhances acetylcholine synthesis (ACh) and to a lesser extent choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity in cultured explants of the rat medial septal nucleus. Nerve growth factor (NGF) has been reported to enhance ChAT in several systems in vitro and in vivo, and clearly stimulates septal explants. At optimal concentrations of NGF and C-CTF, there is an additive effect on ChAT activity. The effects of NGF on ACh synthesis are minimal. Antibodies to NGF block effects of added NGF but have no effects on C-CTF activity. The ability of C-CTF to enhance ACh synthesis appears related to its ability to enhance the acetylation of the choline that has been taken up by a sodium dependent, high affinity transport system. Thus, actions of NGF and C-CTF appear qualitatively and quantitatively distinct, yet both can influence the cholinergic activity of the developing medial septal nucleus.
Entorhinal and septal inputs differentially control sensory-evoked responses in the rat dentate gyrus.	Averaged sensory-evoked potentials were recorded from the outer molecular layer of the dentate gyrus in naïve rats and in rats conditioned to respond in the presence of an auditory stimulus. Two components (negative peaks) of the potentials were functionally distinguished in terms of responsiveness to unique or conditioned auditory stimuli. Each component was independently generated by a separate input pathway to the dentate gyrus: The perforant path provided an "insignificance" or "unexpected" feature of the sensory stimulus when appropriate, and the septum controlled the development of a second component as a function of the behavioral significance of the stimulus during the acquisition of auditory discrimination behavior. A reciprocal relationship between the peak amplitudes of both components of the average evoked potentials dependent on the relative behavioral significance of the sensory stimulus was observed in all animals during extinction and reconditioning of the sensory discrimination task. The findings indicate that the entorhinal and septal projections to the dentate granule cells are activated differentially by sensory stimuli as a function of their acquired behavioral significance to the animal.
Aromatase- (estrogen synthetase) immunoreactive neurons in the rat septal area. A light and electron microscopic study.	The aromatase enzyme (estrogen synthetase) catalyzes the conversion of testosterone to estrogen in peripheral and central nervous tissue. Light and electron microscopic immunocytochemistry was used to study the localization of this enzyme in the septal area of adult male and female albino rats. Aromatase-immunoreactivity was found restricted to neuronal somata and dendritic arbors, and no sex differences were detected in its distribution or intensity. Most aromatase-immunoreactive neurons formed two oblique bands in the lateral and the medial zones of the lateral septum; in addition, labeled cells were present in the septohippocampal nucleus and the laterodorsal portion of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. Electron microscopy revealed that the majority of aromatase-positive neurons in the lateral septum exhibit somatic spines, a characteristic marker of a neuron population that is known to contribute to local and extraseptal projections. The presence of aromatase in lateral septal somatospiny neurons suggests that estrogen formed by these neurons may be critically involved in the septal control of steroid-dependent behaviors.
Telencephalic efferents of the tiger salamander Ambystoma tigrinum tigrinum (Green).	The efferent projections of the telencephalon in the tiger salamander were examined by the Nauta and Fink-Heimer methods following unilateral hemispherectomies, rostral hemispheric ablations and pallial lesions. The cerebral hemisphere connects with most areas of the contralateral hemisphere via the pallial, anterior and habenular commissures. The descending fibers travel in the medial and lateral forebrain bundles and in the tracts comprising the stria medullaris. Degenerating fibers and terminals were present throughout the diencephalon but were more abundant ipsilaterally. Fibers reach the pretectum and optic tectum via dorsal and ventral pathways. There is a heavy projection to the midbrain tegmentum and a sparse projection to the tectum via the ipsilateral lateral forebrain bundle. This tract continues into the medulla oblongata and the cervical spinal cord. Rostral and dorsal hemispheric ablations revealed that the majority of fibers forming the olfacto-peduncular tract originate in the ventral, rostral one-third of the hemisphere. It was also determined that the majority of the descending efferent fibers located in the lateral forebrain bundle originate from the caudal lateral hemispheric wall, and that these fibers form connections characteristic of mammalian corticofugal and striatofugal systems. The cytoarchitecture and connections of the caudal lateral hemispheric wall suggest that it is homologous to parts of motor isocortex and amygdala of amniotes.
Development of an intact blood-brain barrier in brain tissue transplants is dependent on the site of transplantation.	Transplantation of fetal septal forebrain tissue was performed to the anterior chamber of the eye, or intracranially to the rostral hippocampal formation in rats, to evaluate the impact of transplantation site on the development of an intact blood-brain barrier (BBB). The tissue was studied at 1,2,3, and 4 wk following transplantation by means of intravenous injection of Trypan blue, which is a vital stain not normally penetrating the BBB, as well as with an antibody specifically directed against the rat BBB, SM171. In the intraocular septal transplants, there was a significant leakage of Trypan blue 1 wk postgrafting, associated with a few laminin-immunoreactive blood vessels that did not contain any SM17I-immunoreactivity. However, at 2 wk postgrafting, the intraocular grafts exhibited an extensive plexus of thin-walled blood vessels expressing SMI71 immunoreactivity and no Trypan blue leakage. Thus, it appeared that a BBB had developed to some degree by 2 wk postgrafting in oculo. In the intracranial grafts, on the other hand, Trypan blue leakage could be seen as long as 3 wk postgrafting, and a dense plexus of blood vessels with SMI71 immunoreactivity was first seen at 4 wk postgrafting. Thus, the development of Trypan blue impermeability was delayed with 1 to 2 wk in the intracranial versus the intraocular grafts. Control experiments using psychological stress in adult rats as a means to transiently disrupt the BBB revealed that an increase in Trypan blue leakage correlated well with the disappearance of SMI71 immunoreactivity. Taken together, these studies demonstrate that the site of transplantation can influence the development of an intact BBB in neural tissue grafts.
Characterization of carbachol-induced rhythmic bursting discharges in neurons from guinea pig lateral septum slices.	A brain slice preparation from guinea pigs and intracellular recording techniques were used to examine the effects of carbachol application on the three classes (A, B, and C) of neurons (n = 68, 40 of class A, 12 of class B, 16 of class C) within the mediolateral part of the lateral septum (LSml). Bath application of carbachol elicited a sustained depolarization associated with an increase in membrane input resistance, action-potential firing and triggered rhythmic bursting discharges in 59% of recorded neurons. According to the configuration of these bursts, LSml neurons were classified into type I, II, and III neurons with reference to their response to carbachol. The frequency of spontaneous bursts was increased by depolarization caused by applied DC current in the three types of neurons. Bursts in type II and III neurons were voltage and dose dependent. These dependences were responsible for a continuum of variation in carbachol responses in these two types of neurons. As the neuron depolarized in the presence of carbachol, spontaneous action potentials increased in frequency and slow afterdepolarizing potentials (sADPs) appeared and preceded the occurrence of the first burst. These sADPs from adjacent action potentials appeared to progressively increase to initiate a burst. In the presence of carbachol, sADPs and bursts were also observable after action potentials evoked by depolarizing current pulses at the resting membrane potential (RMP) in LSml neurons. Evoked sADPs and bursts were associated with an apparent increase in input conductance. Application of low Na+ medium blocked both the sADP and bursts. Application of zero Ca2+ medium either 1) blocked completely the generation of sADPs and bursts (n = 16), or 2) did not block bursts (n = 14). Evoked sADPs and bursts were blocked by tetraethylammonium but were resistant to external Cs+. The results indicate that the activation of cholinergic receptors does not differentially affect the three classes of LSml neurons. The responses to carbachol in type II and III neurons form a continuum of variation, whereas these of type I neurons constitute a discrete entity. The selective cholinergic induction of a sADP, and the progressive activation of these sADPs in LSml neurons are thought to be responsible for the onset of the three types of rhythmic bursting discharges. We propose that sADPs and bursts induced by carbachol are generated by a cationic conductance largely permeable to Na+. In a subpopulation of LSml neurons (n = 16), the bursts are dependent on the presence of Ca2+ in the medium.
Contribution of dopamine neurons in the medial zona incerta to the innervation of the central nucleus of the amygdala, horizontal diagonal band of Broca and hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus.	Results of previous studies suggested that incertohypothalamic dopamine (IHDA) neurons located in the medial zona incerta (MZI) project to the central nucleus of the amygdala (cAMY), horizontal diagonal band of Broca (HDB), and paraventricular nucleus (PVN). The overall goal of the present study was to determine the relative contribution of IHDA neurons to the DA innervation of these brain regions. A combined fluorescent and in situ hybridization histochemical procedure was employed to localize the retrograde tracer fluoro-gold (FG) in cells expressing tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA in the MZI following its iontophoretic injection into either the cAMY, HDB or PVN. For comparison, the numbers of dual labeled FG/TH mRNA neurons in the midbrain were also determined. One week after unilateral injection of FG into the cAMY, cells containing FG+TH mRNA were found in the ipsilateral MZI, substantia nigra zona compacta (SNC) and ventral tegmental area (VTA). The total numbers of cells labeled with FG varied with the size of the injection site, but the ratio of dual labeling in the MZI to that of the SNC-VTA remained constant across animals at approximately 1:6. FG injections into the HDB resulted in a ratio of dual labeled cells in the ipsilateral MZI and VTA of approximately 1:2, but no dual labeled cells were found in the SNC. Dual labeled cells were only found in the ipsilateral MZI in animals receiving FG injections in the PVN. Thus, DA terminals in the PVN originate exclusively from IHDA neurons in the MZI, whereas these neurons provide only a portion of the DA innervation of the cAMY and HDB. The similar distribution of dual labeled cells in the MZI following FG injections into the cAMY, HDB and PVN suggests that perikarya of IHDA neurons projecting to these regions are not organized into distinct groups.
