Amplified rDNA restriction analysis and further genotypic characterisation of metal-resistant soil bacteria and related facultative hydrogenotrophs.	The level of genotypic relationship between czc+ soil bacteria mainly resistant to zinc (but also to various other metals), and related facultative hydrogenotrophs previously assigned to the genera Alcaligenes, Ralstonia, and Burkholderia was evaluated using ARDRA (Amplified Ribosomal DNA Restriction Analysis). The analysis included 44 strains isolated from harsh industrial environments in sediments, soils and wastes with high content of heavy metals. These strains were selected by their ability to grow in the presence of high concentrations of multiple heavy metals and to hybridise with czc or ncc probes. The czc operon confers resistance to cadmium, zinc and cobalt in strain Ralstonia eutropha CH34. The ncc operon confers resistance to nickel, cobalt and cadmium in strain 31A known as Alcaligenes xylosoxidans. The analysis showed a close phylogenetic clustering of the czc+ strains inside the Ralstonia genus despite of their different origins and that the Ralstonia genus contained also the hydrogenotrophs and some catabolic strains assigned to the genus Ralstonia eutropha, strains up to now registrated as CDC IV c-2 strains as well as reference strains belonging to Ralstonia solanacearum and Ralstonia pickettii. The ncc+ strains are phylogenetically less related to each other compared to the czc+ strains. This suggests that the tested czc+ strains and some of the ncc+ strains may be considered as belonging to the genus Ralstonia. Inside this major Ralstonia cluster, a subcluster gathers most of the czc+ isolates maybe giving a clue to define a new species. Besides, from 30 tested strains, 15 metal resistant strains of this subcluster proved to display the unusual mutator phenotype characteristic of the representative strain CH34.
Genome-wide transcriptional analysis in S. cerevisiae by mini-array membrane hybridization.	Access to the powerful micro-array analytical methods used for genome-wide transcriptional analysis has so far been restricted by the high cost and/or lack of availability of the sophisticated instrumentation and materials needed to perform it. Mini-array membrane hybridization provides a less expensive alternative. The reliability of this technique, however, is not well documented and its reported use has, up to this point, been very limited. Our objective was to test whether or not mini-array membrane hybridization would reliably identify genes whose expression was controlled by a specific set of genetic and/or physiological signals. Our results demonstrate that mini-array hybridization can correctly identify genes whose expression is known to be controlled by the GATA-factor regulatory network in S. cerevisiae and in addition can reliably identify genes not previously reported to be associated with this nitrogen control system.
Comparison of three methods of microsatellite detection.	Examination of microsatellites is frequent in the diagnosis of cancer. Microsatellites are repeat DNA sequences scattered throughout the human genome. These repeat regions are very frequent and highly polymorphic elements. In this study we focus on dinucleotide repeats. We compared three different methods for the detection of microsatellites: use of the ABI Prism 377 fluorescence sequencer, autoradiography and silver-stained gels. DNA was extracted from various clinical samples and amplified by different polymerase chain reaction (PCR) protocols. DNA from normal and tumor tissues was analysed using each method. The fluorescence method was more sensitive than the two other methods; however, this technology is very expensive. It seems possible, when examining microsatellites on a low budget, to avoid radioactivity by using silver-stained gels as an alternative. In conclusion, we observed identical results when comparing autoradiography with the fluorescence technique. However, we observed variability in the results when interpreting a single locus comparing silver staining with autoradiography and the fluorescence technique. Classification of the tumors based on several microsatellite loci was always identical.
Improved DNA sequencing accuracy and detection of heterozygous alleles using manganese citrate and different fluorescent dye terminators.	The use of dideoxynucleotide triphosphates labeled with different fluorescent dyes (dye terminators) is the most versatile method for automated DNA sequencing. However, variation in peak heights reduces base-calling accuracy and limits heterozygous allele detection, favoring use of dye-labeled primers for this purpose. We have discovered that the addition of a manganese salt to the PE Applied Biosystems dye-terminator sequencing kits overcomes these limitations for the older rhodamine dyes as well as the more recent dichloro-rhodamine dyes (dRhodamine and BigDyes). Addition of manganese to reactions containing dRhodamine-based dye terminators produced the highest base-calling accuracy. This combination resulted in the most uniform electropherogram profiles, superior to those produced by BigDye terminators and published for dye primers, and facilitated detection of heterozygous alleles.
Chemical cleavage sequencing of DNA using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry.	In this paper, we report for the first time use of laser desorption mass spectrometry for measurement of chemical cleavage sequencing products of DNA. In this method, the target DNA was labeled with biotin and subjected to chemical modification and cleavage according to the Maxam-Gilbert sequencing protocol. The biotin-containing fragments were captured by streptavidin-coated magnetic beads and separated from the other fragments. The captured fragments were released by hot ammonia treatment, and the released fragments were analyzed by mass spectrometry. Potential applications of this method in resolving sequence ambiguities and sequencing repeat sequences as well as in the analysis of DNA-protein interactions are discussed.
AMASS: a structured pattern matching approach to shotgun sequence assembly.	In this paper, we propose an efficient, reliable shotgun sequence assembly algorithm based on a fingerprinting scheme that is robust to both noise and repetitive sequences in the data, two primary roadblocks to effective whole-genome shotgun sequencing. Our algorithm uses exact matches of short patterns randomly selected from fragment data to identify fragment overlaps, construct an overlap map, and deliver a consensus sequence. We show how statistical clues made explicit in our approach can easily be exploited to correctly assemble results even in the presence of extensive repetitive sequences. Our approach is both accurate and exceptionally fast in practice: e.g., we have correctly assembled the whole Mycoplasma genitalium genome (approximately 580 kbp) is roughly 8 minutes of 64MB 200MHz Pentium Pro CPU time from real shotgun data, where most existing algorithms can be expected to run for several hours to a day on the same data. Moreover, experiments with artificially-shotgunned data prepared from real DNA sequences from a wide range of organisms (including human DNA) and containing complex repeating regions demonstrate our algorithm's robustness to input noise and the presence of repetitive sequences. For example, we have correctly assembled a 238-kbp human DNA sequence in less than 3 min of 64-MB 200-MHz Pentium Pro CPU time.
Bayesian restoration of a hidden Markov chain with applications to DNA sequencing.	Hidden Markov models (HMMs) are a class of stochastic models that have proven to be powerful tools for the analysis of molecular sequence data. A hidden Markov model can be viewed as a black box that generates sequences of observations. The unobservable internal state of the box is stochastic and is determined by a finite state Markov chain. The observable output is stochastic with distribution determined by the state of the hidden Markov chain. We present a Bayesian solution to the problem of restoring the sequence of states visited by the hidden Markov chain from a given sequence of observed outputs. Our approach is based on a Monte Carlo Markov chain algorithm that allows us to draw samples from the full posterior distribution of the hidden Markov chain paths. The problem of estimating the probability of individual paths and the associated Monte Carlo error of these estimates is addressed. The method is illustrated by considering a problem of DNA sequence multiple alignment. The special structure for the hidden Markov model used in the sequence alignment problem is considered in detail. In conclusion, we discuss certain interesting aspects of biological sequence alignments that become accessible through the Bayesian approach to HMM restoration.
New DNA sequencing methods.	The Human Genome Project and other major genomic sequencing projects have pushed the development of sequencing technology. In the past six years alone, instrument throughput has increased 15-fold. New technologies are now on the horizon that could yield massive increases in our capacity for de novo DNA sequencing. This review presents a summary of state-of-the-art technologies for genomic sequencing and describes technologies that may be candidates for the next generation of DNA sequencing instruments.
Capillary gel electrophoresis with sinusoidal voltammetric detection: a strategy to allow four-"color" DNA sequencing.	A novel detection strategy for DNA sequencing applications that utilizes a frequency-based electrochemical method is reported. Sinusoidal voltammetry is used to selectively identify four unique redox molecules that are covalently attached to the 5'-end of a 20-base sequencing primer. The tags used in this work are ferrocene derivatives with different substituents attached to the ferrocene ring, where the electron-donating or -withdrawing character of the substituent alters the half-wave potential of the modified ferrocene. Therefore, each tag has a unique SV frequency spectrum that can be easily identified in the frequency domain. In this work, the discrimination of one tag versus all others is accomplished through a "phase-nulling" technique. The signal for each tag is selectively eliminated while the other three responses remain virtually unchanged. This analysis scheme allows for the selective identification of each tagged oligonucleotide eluting in sieving polymer capillary gel electrophoresis with a separation efficiency of 2 x 10(6) theoretical plates per meter. This separation efficiency is sufficient to perform "low-resolution" DNA sequencing; the conditions used in this work have not yet been optimized for high-resolution sequencing applications.
Evaluation of T cell receptor testing in lymphoid neoplasms: results of a multicenter study of 29 extracted DNA and paraffin-embedded samples.	To evaluate current diagnostic methods used for the evaluation of T cell receptor (TCR) gene rearrangements, 24 different laboratories analyzed 29 lymphoid neoplasm samples of extracted DNA and paraffin-embedded tissue and were asked to complete a technical questionnaire related to the testing. Participating laboratories performed Southern blot and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing for rearrangements of the TCRbeta chain gene and PCR for the TCRgamma chain gene rearrangements. Of 14 laboratories performing TCRbeta Southern blot analysis, there was complete agreement in 10 of 14 cases, with some false negative results obtained in 4 cases. No false positive results were obtained by Southern blot analysis. TCRbeta PCR analysis was only performed by two laboratories, and only 47.1% of positive samples were detected. Twenty-one laboratory results were obtained for TCRgamma PCR. This method showed an overall detection rate of 77.9% for T cell gene rearrangements with a 4.1% false positive rate, as compared to both TCRgamma Southern blot analysis results and immunophenotyping. The detection rate for TCRgamma PCR, however, significantly differed when extracted DNA samples from frozen tissue were compared to paraffin-embedded tissue (85.4% versus 65.9%; P = 0.0005). Significant differences in true positive results were obtained when laboratories using primers directed against multiple TCRgamma variable regions (V1-8 plus one to three other primer sets) were compared to laboratories that used only a single set of TCR primers directed against the V1-8 (P < 0.0001). Other technical factors significantly affecting results were also identified. These findings provide useful data on the current state of diagnostic TCR testing, highlight the risk of false negative results for TCR testing directed against only portions of the TCRgamma gene, and identify limitations of testing of paraffin-embedded tissues in some laboratories.
Validation of denaturing high performance liquid chromatography as a rapid detection method for the identification of human INK4A gene mutations.	The incidence of melanoma is increasing rapidly in western countries. Genetic predisposition in familial and in some sporadic melanomas has been associated with the presence of INK4A gene mutations. To better define the risk for developing sporadic melanoma based on genetic and environmental interactions, large groups of cases need to be studied. Mutational analysis of genes lacking hot spots for sequence variations is time consuming and expensive. In this study we present the application of denaturing high performance liquid chromatography (DHPLC) for screening of mutations. Exons 1alpha, 2, and 3 were amplified from 129 samples and 13 known mutants, yielding 347 products that were examined at different temperatures. Forty-two of these amplicons showed a distinct non-wild-type profile on the chromatogram. Independent sequencing analysis confirmed 16 different nucleotide variations in Leu32Pro; Ile49Thr; 88 del G; Gln50Arg; Arg24Pro; Met53Ile; Met53Thr; Arg58stop; Pro81Leu; Asp84Ala; Arg80stop; Gly101Trp; Val106Val; Ala148Thr; and in positions (-2) in intron 1 (C --> T); and in the 3' UTR, nucleotide 500 (C --> G). No false negatives or false positives were obtained by DHPLC in samples with mutations or polymorphisms. We conclude that the DHPLC is a fast, sensitive, cost-efficient, and reliable method for the scanning of INK4A somatic or germline mutations and polymorphisms of large number of samples.
Comparing vertebrate whole-genome shotgun reads to the human genome.	Multi-species sequence comparisons are a very efficient way to reveal conserved genes. Because sequence finishing is expensive and time consuming, many genome sequences are likely to stay incomplete. A challenge is to use these fragmented data for understanding the human genome. Methods for using cross-species whole-genome shotgun sequence (WGS) for genome annotation are described in this paper. About one-half million high-quality rat WGS reads (covering 7.5% of the rat genome) generated at the Baylor College of Medicine Human Genome Sequencing Center were compared with the human genome. Using computer-generated random reads as a negative control, a set of parameters was determined for reliable interpretation of BLAST search results. About 10% of the rat reads contain regions that are conserved in the human genomic sequence and about one-third of these include known gene-coding regions. Mapping the conserved regions to human chromosomes showed a 23-fold enrichment for coding regions compared with noncoding regions. This approach can also be applied to other mammalian genomes for gene finding. These data predicted approximately 42,500 genes in the human, slightly more than reported previously.
A short pseudoautosomal region in laboratory mice.	The pseudoautosomal region (PAR) of mammalian sex chromosomes is a small region of sequence identity that is the site of an obligatory pairing and recombination event between the X and Y chromosomes during male meiosis. During female meiosis, X chromosomes can pair and recombine along their entire length; recombination in the PAR is therefore approximately 10x greater in male meiosis compared with female meiosis. A consequence of the presence of the PAR in two copies in males and females is that genes in the region escape the process of X-inactivation. Although the structure and gene content of the human PAR at Xq/Yq is well understood, the mouse PAR, which appears to be of independent evolutionary origin, is poorly characterized. Here we describe a yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) contig covering the distal part of the mouse X chromosome, which we have used to define the pseudoautosomal boundary, that is, the point of divergence of X-specific and X-Y-identical sequences. In addition, we have investigated the size of the mouse PAR by integrating a unique restriction endonuclease recognition site just proximal to the pseudoautosomal boundary by homologous recombination. Restriction digestion of this modified DNA and pulsed field gel electrophoresis reveal that the PAR in these cells is approximately 700 kb. Thus, the mouse PAR, although small in size, has retained essential sex chromosome pairing functions despite its rapid rate of evolution.
SNP genotyping by multiplexed solid-phase amplification and fluorescent minisequencing.	The emerging role of single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in clinical association and pharmacogenetic studies has created a need for high-throughput genotyping technologies. We describe a novel method for multiplexed genotyping of SNPs that employs PCR amplification on microspheres. Oligonucleotide PCR primers were designed for each polymorphic locus such that one of the primers contained a recognition site for BbvI (a type IIS restriction enzyme), followed by 11 nucleotides of locus-specific sequence, which reside immediately upstream of the polymorphic site. Following amplification, this configuration allows for any SNP to be exposed by BbvI digestion and interrogated via primer extension, four-color minisequencing. Primers containing 5' acrylamide groups were attached covalently to the solid support through copolymerization into acrylamide beads. Highly multiplexed solid-phase amplification using human genomic DNA was demonstrated with 57 beads in a single reaction. Multiplexed amplification and minisequencing reactions using bead sets representing eight polymorphic loci were carried out with genomic DNA from eight individuals. Sixty-three of 64 genotypes were accurately determined by this method when compared to genotypes determined by restriction-enzyme digestion of PCR products. This method provides an accurate, robust approach toward multiplexed genotyping that may facilitate the use of SNPs in such diverse applications as pharmacogenetics and genome-wide association studies for complex genetic diseases.
DNA sequencing using biotinylated dideoxynucleotides and mass spectrometry.	Matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MS) has been explored widely for DNA sequencing. The major requirement for this method is that the DNA sequencing fragments must be free from alkaline and alkaline earth salts as well as other contaminants for accurately measuring the masses of the DNA fragments. We report here the development of a novel MS DNA sequencing method that generates Sanger-sequencing fragments in one tube using biotinylated dideoxynucleotides. The DNA sequencing fragments that carry a biotin at the 3'-end are made free from salts and other components in the sequencing reaction by capture with streptavidin-coated magnetic beads. Only correctly terminated biotinylated DNA fragments are subsequently released and loaded onto a mass spectrometer to obtain accurate DNA sequencing data. Compared with gel electrophoresis-based sequencing systems, MS produces a very high resolution of DNA-sequencing fragments, fast separation on microsecond time scales, and completely eliminates the compressions associated with gel electrophoresis. The high resolution of MS allows accurate mutation and heterozygote detection. This optimized solid-phase DNA-sequencing chemistry plus future improvements in detector sensitivity for large DNA fragments in MS instrumentation will further improve MS for DNA sequencing.
Bisulfite genomic sequencing of microdissected cells.	Mapping of methylation patterns in CpG islands has become an important tool for understanding tissue-specific gene expression in both normal and pathological situations. However, the inherent cellular heterogeneity of any given tissues can affect the outcome and interpretation of molecular studies. In order to analyse genomic DNA methylation on a pure cell population from tissue sample, we have developed a simple technique of single-cell microdissection from cryostat sections which can be combined with bisulfite-mediated sequencing of 5-methylcytosine. We report here our results on the methylation status of the androgen receptor gene studied by bisulfite genomic sequencing on purified cells isolated from human testis.
Regulatory sequence analysis: application to the interpretation of gene expression.	Microarray technologies for measuring mRNA abundances in cells allow monitoring of gene expression levels for tens of thousands of genes in parallel. By measuring expression responses across hundreds of different conditions or timepoints a relatively detailed gene expression map starts to emerge. Using cluster analysis techniques, it is possible to identify genes that are consistently coexpressed under several different conditions or treatments. These sets of coexpressed genes can then be compared to existing knowledge about biochemical or signalling pathways, the function of unknown genes can be hypothesised by comparing them to other genes with characterised function, or from trends in expression profiles in general - why cell needs to transcribe or silence the genes during particular treatment. The regulation of genes on the DNA level is largely guided by particular sequence features, the transcription factor binding sites, and other signals encaptured in DNA. By analyzing the regulatory regions of the DNA of the genes consistently coexpressed, we can discover the potential signals hidden in DNA by computational analysis methods. The prerequisite for this kind of analysis is the existence of genomic DNA sequence, knowledge about gene locations, and experimental gene expression measurements for a variety of conditions. This article surveys some of the analysis methods and studies for such a computational discovery approach for yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
REPuter: the manifold applications of repeat analysis on a genomic scale.	The repetitive structure of genomic DNA holds many secrets to be discovered. A systematic study of repetitive DNA on a genomic or inter-genomic scale requires extensive algorithmic support. The REPuter program described herein was designed to serve as a fundamental tool in such studies. Efficient and complete detection of various types of repeats is provided together with an evaluation of significance and interactive visualization. This article circumscribes the wide scope of repeat analysis using applications in five different areas of sequence analysis: checking fragment assemblies, searching for low copy repeats, finding unique sequences, comparing gene structures and mapping of cDNA/EST sequences.
Establishment of a high throughput EST sequencing system using poly(A) tail-removed cDNA libraries and determination of 36,000 bovine ESTs.	We determined 36,310 bovine expressed sequence tag (EST) sequences using 10 different cDNA libraries. For massive EST sequencing, we devised a new system with two major features. First, we constructed cDNA libraries in which the poly(A) tails were removed using nested deletion at the 3'-ends. This permitted high quality reading of sequences from the 3'-end of the cDNA, which is otherwise difficult to do. Second, we increased throughput by sequencing directly on templates generated by colony PCR. Using this system, we determined 600 cDNA sequences per day. The read-out length was >450 bases in >90% of the sequences. Furthermore, we established a data management system for analyses, storage and manipulation of the sequence data. Finally, 16,358 non-redundant ESTs were derived from approximately 6900 independent genes. These data will facilitate construction of a precise comparative map across mammalian species and isolate the functional genes that govern economic traits. This system is applicable to other organisms, including livestock, for which EST data are limited.
General method of rapid Smith/Birnstiel mapping adds for gap closure in shotgun microbial genome sequencing projects: application to Pseudomonas putida KT2440.	A physical mapping strategy has been developed to verify and accelerate the assembly and gap closure phase of a microbial genome shotgun-sequencing project. The protocol was worked out during the ongoing Pseudomonas putida KT2440 genome project. A macro-restriction map was constructed by linking probe hybridisation of SwaI- or I-CeuI-restricted chromosomes to serve as a backbone for the quick quality control of sequence and contig assemblies. The library of PCR-generated SwaI linking probes was derived from the sequence assembly after 3- and 6-fold genome coverage. In order to support gap closure in regions with ambiguous assemblies such as the repetitive sequence of the seven ribosomal operons, high-resolution Smith/Birnstiel maps were generated by Southern hybridisation of pulsed-field gel electrophoresis-separated rare-cutter complete/frequent-cutter partial digestions with rare-cutter fragment end probes. Overall 1.5 Mb of the 6.1 Mb P.putida KT2440 genome has been subjected to high-resolution physical mapping in order to align assemblies generated from shotgun sequencing.
Identification of the minor component of a mixed stain by using mismatch primer-induced restriction sites in amplified mtDNA.	We report a case in which STR typing failed to identify the minor component of a mixed saliva stain, but a mitochondrial restriction analysis succeeded in discriminating between the two components. To identify the nt16093 and nt16265 transitions, the template was amplified with the mismatch primers L16092-mm16085 and H16266-mm16269. In the presence of the transitions the mismatch primers created a BsaB I and a Cac8 I restriction site, respectively. Subsequently, aliquots were restricted separately using the enzymes Cac8 I and BsaB I which clearly identified the minor stain component.
Refined physical map of the human PAX2/HOX11/NFKB2 cancer gene region at 10q24 and relocalization of the HPV6AI1 viral integration site to 14q13.3-q21.1.	Chromosome band 10q24 is a gene-rich domain and host to a number of cancer, developmental, and neurological genes. Recurring translocations, deletions and mutations involving this chromosome band have been observed in different human cancers and other disease conditions, but the precise identification of breakpoint sites, and detailed characterization of the genetic basis and mechanisms which underlie many of these rearrangements has yet to be resolved. Towards this end it is vital to establish a definitive genetic map of this region, which to date has shown considerable volatility through time in published works of scientific journals, within different builds of the same international genomic database, and across the differently constructed databases.
A high resolution physical and RH map of pig chromosome 6q1.2 and comparative analysis with human chromosome 19q13.1.	The generation of BAC/PAC contigs in targeted genome regions is a powerful method to establish high-resolution physical maps. In domestic animal species the generation of such contigs is typically initiated with the screening of libraries with probes derived from human genes that are expected to be located in the region of interest by comparative mapping. However, in many instances the available gene-derived probes are too far apart to allow the cloning of BAC/PAC contigs larger than a few hundred kb. High resolution physical mapping allows to estimate the sizes of gaps and to control the orientation of the individual sub-contigs, which helps to avoid errors during the assembly of smaller contigs into final Mb-sized contigs. The recently constructed porcine IMNpRH2 panel allowed us to use this approach for the construction of high-resolution physical maps of SSC 6q1.2.
Gene discovery in the hamster: a comparative genomics approach for gene annotation by sequencing of hamster testis cDNAs.	Complete genome annotation will likely be achieved through a combination of computer-based analysis of available genome sequences combined with direct experimental characterization of expressed regions of individual genomes. We have utilized a comparative genomics approach involving the sequencing of randomly selected hamster testis cDNAs to begin to identify genes not previously annotated on the human, mouse, rat and Fugu (pufferfish) genomes.
Genome sequence based, comparative analysis of the fluorescent amplified fragment length polymorphisms (FAFLP) of tubercle bacilli from seals provides molecular evidence for a new species within the Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex.	Tuberculosis in seals is caused by a member of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex referred to as the 'seal bacillus'. Fluorescent amplified-fragment length polymorphism (FAFLP) analysis was applied to isolates from four Australian and six Argentinean seals and compared with FAFLP pattern for standard strains belonging to the M. tuberculosis complex. The FAFLP profiles derived from EcoRI/MseI restricted fragments of blind coded DNA samples differentiated the seal bacillus from other members of the M. tuberculosis complex. According to the phylogenetic analysis performed using FAFLP data, seal bacilli appear to have diverged significantly from other members of the M. tuberculosis complex. We describe the suitability of a panel of 19 highly polymorphic markers for rapid identification and comparative genomic analyses of the seal bacillus strains. It is likely that these bacilli got separated from the M. tuberculosis lineage as a result of different insertion deletion events occurring on a genome wide scale. Our analysis reveals that the seal bacillus and M. bovis are genetically related and therefore, might have originated from a common ancestor. Our data additionally support the hypothesis that seal bacillus occupies a unique taxonomic position within the M. tuberculosis complex.
Large-scale identification and analysis of genome-wide single-nucleotide polymorphisms for mapping in Arabidopsis thaliana.	Genetic markers such as single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are essential tools for positional cloning, association, or quantitative trait locus mapping and the determination of genetic relationships between individuals. We identified and characterized a genome-wide set of SNP markers by generating 10,706 expressed sequence tags (ESTs) from cDNA libraries derived from 6 different accessions, and by analysis of 606 sequence tagged sites (STS) from up to 12 accessions of the model flowering plant Arabidopsis thaliana. The cDNA libraries for EST sequencing were made from individuals that were stressed by various means to enrich for transcripts from genes expressed under such conditions. SNPs discovered in these sequences may be useful markers for mapping genes involved in interactions with the biotic and abiotic environment. The STS loci are distributed randomly over the genome. By comparison with the Col-0 genome sequence, we identified a total of 8051 SNPs and 637 insertion/deletion polymorphisms (InDel). Analysis of STS-derived SNPs shows that most SNPs are rare, but that it is possible to identify intermediate frequency framework markers that can be used for genetic mapping in many different combinations of accessions. A substantial proportion of SNPs located in ORFs caused a change of the encoded amino acid. A comparison of the density of our SNP markers among accessions in both the EST and STS datasets, revealed that Cvi-0 is the most divergent accession from Col-0 among the 12 accessions studied. All of these markers are freely available via the internet.
DNA sequence representation without degeneracy.	Graphical representation of DNA sequence provides a simple way of viewing, sorting and comparing various gene structures. A new two-dimensional graphical representation method using a two- quadrant Cartesian coordinates system has been derived for mathematical denotation of DNA sequence. The two-dimensional graphic representation resolves sequences' degeneracy and is mathematically proven to eliminate circuit formation. Given x-projection and y-projection of any point on the graphical representation, the number of A, G, C and T from the beginning of the sequence to that point could be found. Compared with previous methods, this graphical representation is more in-line with the conventional recognition of linear sequences by molecular biologists, and also provides a metaphor in two dimensions for local and global DNA sequence comparison.
Probable laboratory contamination of clinical specimens with Leptospira meyeri.	Leptospira meyeri were isolated from the blood or the pleural effusion cultures of four patients at a commercial clinical laboratory. All isolates were identical in their 16S rDNA sequences and NotI or SfiI restriction profiles of the chromosome DNA on pulsed-field gel electrophoresis. However, intraperitoneal inoculation of the isolate (NIID1) failed to kill hamsters and none of the patients' sera reacted with L. meyeri strains isolated, indicating leptospiral contamination occurred during laboratory investigation.
The mosaic structure of the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium etli CFN42 and its relation to other symbiotic genome compartments.	Symbiotic bacteria known as rhizobia interact with the roots of legumes and induce the formation of nitrogen-fixing nodules. In rhizobia, essential genes for symbiosis are compartmentalized either in symbiotic plasmids or in chromosomal symbiotic islands. To understand the structure and evolution of the symbiotic genome compartments (SGCs), it is necessary to analyze their common genetic content and organization as well as to study their differences. To date, five SGCs belonging to distinct species of rhizobia have been entirely sequenced. We report the complete sequence of the symbiotic plasmid of Rhizobium etli CFN42, a microsymbiont of beans, and a comparison with other SGC sequences available.
An evolutionary approach reveals a high protein-coding capacity of the human genome.	We developed a new evolutionary method for identifying exons from genomic sequences and found 19000 potential coding exons that are absent from all existing annotations of the human genome. Of these, 13700 satisfied very stringent criteria and can with confidence be considered as novel exons. Evidently, a large number of new human genes can be identified using evolutionary approaches.
Modified nonparametric approaches to detecting differentially expressed genes in replicated microarray experiments.	An important goal in analyzing microarray data is to determine which genes are differentially expressed across two kinds of tissue samples or samples obtained under two experimental conditions. Various parametric tests, such as the two-sample t-test, have been used, but their possibly too strong parametric assumptions or large sample justifications may not hold in practice. As alternatives, a class of three nonparametric statistical methods, including the empirical Bayes method of Efron et al. (2001), the significance analysis of microarray (SAM) method of Tusher et al. (2001) and the mixture model method (MMM) of Pan et al. (2001), have been proposed. All the three methods depend on constructing a test statistic and a so-called null statistic such that the null statistic's distribution can be used to approximate the null distribution of the test statistic. However, relatively little effort has been directed toward assessment of the performance or the underlying assumptions of the methods in constructing such test and null statistics.
K-ary clustering with optimal leaf ordering for gene expression data.	A major challenge in gene expression analysis is effective data organization and visualization. One of the most popular tools for this task is hierarchical clustering. Hierarchical clustering allows a user to view relationships in scales ranging from single genes to large sets of genes, while at the same time providing a global view of the expression data. However, hierarchical clustering is very sensitive to noise, it usually lacks of a method to actually identify distinct clusters, and produces a large number of possible leaf orderings of the hierarchical clustering tree. In this paper we propose a new hierarchical clustering algorithm which reduces susceptibility to noise, permits up to k siblings to be directly related, and provides a single optimal order for the resulting tree.
Gene interaction in DNA microarray data is decomposed by information geometric measure.	Given the vast amount of gene expression data, it is essential to develop a simple and reliable method of investigating the fine structure of gene interaction. We show how an information geometric measure achieves this.
Coupled two-way clustering server.	The CTWC server provides access to the software, CTWC1.00, that implements Coupled Two Way Clustering (Getz et al., 2000), a method designed to mine gene expression data
Genescript: DNA sequence annotation pipeline.	Genescript uses a number of publicly available analysis programs to annotate a DNA sequence. It provides an integrated display of results from each program, and includes an evidence-based scoring system that gives informative summaries of predicted gene models.
Direct molecular haplotyping of long-range genomic DNA with M1-PCR.	Haplotypes, combinations of several phase-determined polymorphic markers, are extremely valuable for studies of disease association and chromosome evolution. Here we describe a technique called M1-PCR (M for "multiplex" and 1 for "single-copy DNA molecules") that enables direct molecular haplotyping of several polymorphic markers separated by as many as 24 kb. A genomic DNA sample first is diluted to approximately single-copy. The haplotype is directly determined by simultaneously genotyping several polymorphic markers in the same reaction with a multiplex PCR and base extension reaction. This approach does not rely on pedigree data and does not require previous amplification of the entire genomic region containing the selected markers.
Identification of genes showing differential expression in anorexia mutant mouse.	Differential display (DD) PCR was applied to identify genes regulated by anorexia (anx) in mouse brain. Of the four apparently differentially expressed genes, three (H2-H4) had high homology with known genes such as apoptotic protease activating factor 1 (Apaf 1), adenylate cyclase 6 (Adcy 6), and myelin proteolipid protein (PLP). H1, designated as HIPA1, had a homology with unknown function gene fragments. Northern blot analysis confirmed HIPA1 expression induced by anorexia. A 1579 bp full-length cDNA of HIPA1 was isolated from a mouse brain cDNA library using a probe from the differentially displayed H1 fragment. Sequence analysis showed that HIPA1 had 98.7% homology to mouse hippocampus cDNA. In situ hybridization demonstrated that the HIPA1 mRNA was highly up-regulated in the hippocampus of anx/anx mouse brain.
Real time PCR methodology for quantification of nucleic acids]	The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) has become an essential tool for molecular biologists and its introduction into nucleic acids detection systems has revolutionized the quantitative analysis of DNA and RNA. The technique has rapidly evolved over the last few years and the growing interest in quantitative applications of the PCR has favoured the development of real-time quantitative PCR. In this paper, we review, after presentation of the theorical aspects of PCR, the basic principles of real-time PCR with the introduction of the concept of threshold cycle. More precisely, we describe the novel assay formats that greatly simplify the protocols used for the detection of specific nucleic acids. We focus on the actual four technologies that enable sequence detection in a closed tube and that are SYBR Green I, TaqMan probes, Hybridization probes and Molecular Beacon probes. We then discuss the different quantification strategies in real time PCR and compare the competiting instruments on the market. The most important real-time PCR applications in clinical biology are also described.
An exhaustive DNA micro-satellite map of the human genome using high performance computing.	The current pace of the generation of sequence data requires the development of software tools that can rapidly provide full annotation of the data. We have developed a new method for rapid sequence comparison using the exact match algorithm without repeat masking. As a demonstration, we have identified all perfect simple tandem repeats (STR) within the draft sequence of the human genome. The STR elements (chromosome, position, length and repeat subunit) have been placed into a relational database. Repeat flanking sequence is also publicly accessible at http://grid.abcc.ncifcrf.gov. To illustrate the utility of this complete set of STR elements, we documented the increased density of potentially polymorphic markers throughout the genome. The new STR markers may be useful in disease association studies because so many STR elements manifest multiallelic polymorphism. Also, because triplet repeat expansions are important for human disease etiology, we identified trinucleotide repeats that exist within exons of known genes. This resulted in a list that includes all 14 genes known to undergo polynucleotide expansion, and 48 additional candidates. Several of these are non-polyglutamine triplet repeats. Other examinations of the STR database demonstrated repeats spanning splice junctions and identified SNPs within repeat elements.
Molecular cloning and characterization of hazel pollen protein (70 kD) as a luminal binding protein (BiP): a novel cross-reactive plant allergen.	Tree pollen contains many allergens showing cross-reactivity to proteins from pollen, seeds, and fruits of different plant species. Amongst Fagales, responsible for several allergenic responses, hazel provides the best material to study pollen as well as food allergens in one species. The aim of this study was to identify and characterize the physiological function of an allergen from hazel pollen and to determine possible cross-reactivity to proteins from hazelnut.
Detection of human papillomavirus DNA in pterygia from different geographical regions.	The aetiology and pathogenesis of pterygia remain unclear and the involvement of human papillomavirus (HPV) is controversial. 41 pterygia from two geographic locations were evaluated for the presence of HPV DNA.
Two new polymorphisms of the FMO3 gene in Caucasian and African-American populations: comparative genetic and functional studies.	To characterize the contribution of the human flavin-containing monooxygenase form 3 (FMO3) in the metabolism and disposition of drugs and xenobiotics, we determined the single nucleotide polymorphisms in the coding region and adjacent splice junctions of FMO3 in 134 African Americans and 120 Caucasians from the United States. In the regions examined, DNA resequencing or high throughput MassEXTEND studies coupled with mass spectrometric genotyping showed that 12 sites of variation were present. Three variants encoding synonymous mutations and four polymorphisms were observed in the noncoding region. Another three variants, Lys158-FMO3, Met257-FMO3 and Gly308-FMO3, previously reported in similar populations, were prominent polymorphisms. Two new polymorphisms, His132-FMO3 and Pro360-FMO3, were identified in this study. Both variants were found only in African Americans. To evaluate the effect of the amino acid substitutions on the function of FMO3, each amino acid substitution was introduced by site-directed mutagenesis into a wild-type FMO3 cDNA. Selective functional activity was studied with methimazole, trimethylamine, and 10-(N,N-dimethylaminopentyl)-2-(trifluoromethyl) phenothiazine. Both His132-FMO3 and Pro360-FMO3 variants were able to metabolize the substrates examined. Compared with wild-type FMO3, the His132-FMO3 was less catalytically efficient. The His132-FMO3 variant moderately altered the catalytic efficiency of FMO3 (decrease of 30%, 60% and 6% with methimazole, trimethylamine and 10-(N,N-dimethylaminopentyl)-2-(trifluoromethyl)phenothiazine, respectively). The Pro360-FMO3 variant was more catalytically efficient than wild-type FMO3. Pro360-FMO3 oxygenated methimazole, trimethylamine and 10-(N,N-dimethylaminopentyl)-2-(trifluoromethyl)phenothiazine, respectively, 3-, 5- and 2-fold more efficiently than wild-type FMO3. Based on the functional activity of the variant FMO3 enzymes, it is likely that population differences exist for compounds primarily metabolized by FMO3.
The molecular basis of glutamate formiminotransferase deficiency.	Glutamate formiminotransferase deficiency, an autosomal recessive disorder and the second most common inborn error of folate metabolism, is presumed to be due to defects in the bifunctional enzyme glutamate formiminotransferase-cyclodeaminase (FTCD). Features of a severe phenotype, first identified in patients of Japanese descent, include elevated levels of formiminoglutamate (FIGLU) in the urine in response to histidine administration, megaloblastic anemia, and mental retardation. Features of a mild phenotype include high urinary excretion of FIGLU in the absence of histidine administration, mild developmental delay, and no hematological abnormalities. We found mutations in the human FTCD gene in three patients with putative glutamate formiminotransferase deficiency. Two siblings were heterozygous for missense mutations, c.457C>T (R135C) and c.940G>C (R299P). Mutagenesis of porcine FTCD and expression in E. coli showed that the R135C mutation reduced formiminotransferase activity to 61% of wild-type, whereas the R299P mutation reduced this activity to 57% of wild-type. The third patient was hemizygous for c.1033insG, with quantitative PCR indicating that the other allele contained a deletion. These mutations are the first identified in glutamate formiminotransferase deficiency and demonstrate that mutations in FTCD represent the molecular basis for the mild phenotype of this disease.
Epigenetic detection of human chromosome 14 uniparental disomy.	The recent demonstration of genomic imprinting of DLK1 and MEG3 on human chromosome 14q32 indicates that these genes might contribute to the discordant phenotypes associated with uniparental disomy (UPD) of chromosome 14. Regulation of imprinted expression of DLK1 and MEG3 involves a differentially methylated region (DMR) that encompasses the MEG3 promoter. We exploited the normal differential methylation of the DLK1/MEG3 region to develop a rapid diagnostic PCR assay based upon an individual's epigenetic profile. We used methylation-specific multiplex PCR in a retrospective analysis to amplify divergent lengths of the methylated and unmethylated MEG3 DMR in a single reaction and accurately identified normal, maternal UPD14, and paternal UPD14 in bisulfite converted DNA samples. This approach, which is based solely on differential epigenetic profiles, may be generally applicable for rapidly and economically screening for other imprinting defects associated with uniparental disomy, determining loss of heterozygosity of imprinted tumor suppressor genes, and identifying gene-specific hypermethylation events associated with neoplastic progression.
IMGT/PhyloGene: an on-line tool for comparative analysis of immunoglobulin and T cell receptor genes.	IMGT/PhyloGene is an on-line software package for comparative analysis of immunoglobulin (IG) and T cell receptor (TR) variable genes of all vertebrate species, newly implemented in IMGT, the international ImMunoGeneTics information system ((R)). IMGT/PhyloGene is strongly associated with the IMGT gene and allele nomenclature and with the IMGT unique numbering for V-REGION, which directly creates standardized alignments from IMGT reference sequences. IMGT/PhyloGene is the first tool to use the IMGT expertized and standardized data for automated comparative analyses, and the first on-line software package for phylogenetic reconstruction to be integrated to a sequence database. Starting from a standardized alignment of selected sequences, IMGT/PhyloGene computes a matrix of evolutionary distances, builds a tree using the Neighbor-Joining (NJ) algorithm, and outputs various graphical tree representations. The resulting IMGT/PhyloGene tree is then used as a support for studying the evolution of particular subregions, such as the CDR-IMGT (Complementarity Determining Regions) or the V-RS (Variable gene Recombination Signals). IMGT/PhyloGene is freely available at http://imgt.cines.fr.
Targeting a complex transcriptome: the construction of the mouse full-length cDNA encyclopedia.	We report the construction of the mouse full-length cDNA encyclopedia,the most extensive view of a complex transcriptome,on the basis of preparing and sequencing 246 libraries. Before cloning,cDNAs were enriched in full-length by Cap-Trapper,and in most cases,aggressively subtracted/normalized. We have produced 1,442,236 successful 3'-end sequences clustered into 171,144 groups, from which 60,770 clones were fully sequenced cDNAs annotated in the FANTOM-2 annotation. We have also produced 547,149 5' end reads,which clustered into 124,258 groups. Altogether, these cDNAs were further grouped in 70,000 transcriptional units (TU),which represent the best coverage of a transcriptome so far. By monitoring the extent of normalization/subtraction, we define the tentative equivalent coverage (TEC),which was estimated to be equivalent to >12,000,000 ESTs derived from standard libraries. High coverage explains discrepancies between the very large numbers of clusters (and TUs) of this project,which also include non-protein-coding RNAs,and the lower gene number estimation of genome annotations. Altogether,5'-end clusters identify regions that are potential promoters for 8637 known genes and 5'-end clusters suggest the presence of almost 63,000 transcriptional starting points. An estimate of the frequency of polyadenylation signals suggests that at least half of the singletons in the EST set represent real mRNAs. Clones accounting for about half of the predicted TUs await further sequencing. The continued high-discovery rate suggests that the task of transcriptome discovery is not yet complete.
DNA book.	We propose herein a new method of DNA distribution, whereby DNA clones or PCR products are printed directly onto the pages of books and delivered to users along with relevant scientific information. DNA sheets, comprising water-soluble paper onto which DNA is spotted, can be bound into books. Readers can easily extract the DNA fragments from DNA sheets and amplify them using PCR. We show that DNA sheets can withstand various conditions that may be experienced during bookbinding and delivery, such as high temperatures and humidity. Almost all genes (95%-100% of randomly selected RIKEN mouse cDNA clones) were recovered successfully by use of PCR. Readers can start their experiments after a 2-h PCR amplification without waiting for the delivery of DNA clones. The DNA Book thus provides a novel method for delivering DNA in a timely and cost-effective manner. A sample DNA sheet (carrying RIKEN mouse cDNA clones encoding genes of enzymes for the TCA cycle) is included in this issue for field-testing. We would greatly appreciate it if readers could attempt to extract DNA and report the results and whether the DNA sheet was shipped to readers in good condition.
CLOURE: Clustal Output Reformatter, a program for reformatting ClustalX/ClustalW outputs for SNP analysis and molecular systematics.	We describe a program (and a website) to reformat the ClustalX/ClustalW outputs to a format that is widely used in the presentation of sequence alignment data in SNP analysis and molecular systematic studies. This program, CLOURE, CLustal OUtput REformatter, takes the multiple sequence alignment file (nucleic acid or protein) generated from Clustal as input files. The CLOURE-D format presents the Clustal alignment in a format that highlights only the different nucleotides/residues relative to the first query sequence. The program has been written in Visual Basic and will run on a Windows platform. The downloadable program, as well as a web-based server which has also been developed, can be accessed at http://imtech.res.in/~anand/cloure.html.
Tcoffee@igs: A web server for computing, evaluating and combining multiple sequence alignments.	This paper presents Tcoffee@igs, a new server provided to the community by Hewlet Packard computers and the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique. This server is a web-based tool dedicated to the computation, the evaluation and the combination of multiple sequence alignments. It uses the latest version of the T-Coffee package. Given a set of unaligned sequences, the server returns an evaluated multiple sequence alignment and the associated phylogenetic tree. This server also makes it possible to evaluate the local reliability of an existing alignment and to combine several alternative multiple alignments into a single new one. Tcoffee@igs can be used for aligning protein, RNA or DNA sequences. Datasets of up to 100 sequences (2000 residues long) can be processed. The server and its documentation are available from: http://igs-server.cnrs-mrs.fr/Tcoffee/.
SLAM web server for comparative gene finding and alignment.	SLAM is a program that simultaneously aligns and annotates pairs of homologous sequences. The SLAM web server integrates SLAM with repeat masking tools and the AVID alignment program to allow for rapid alignment and gene prediction in user submitted sequences. Along with annotations and alignments for the submitted sequences, users obtain a list of predicted conserved non-coding sequences (and their associated alignments). The web site also links to whole genome annotations of the human, mouse and rat genomes produced with the SLAM program. The server can be accessed at http://bio.math.berkeley.edu/slam.
Theatre: A software tool for detailed comparative analysis and visualization of genomic sequence.	Theatre is a web-based computing system designed for the comparative analysis of genomic sequences, especially with respect to motifs likely to be involved in the regulation of gene expression. Theatre is an interface to commonly used sequence analysis tools and biological sequence databases to determine or predict the positions of coding regions, repetitive sequences and transcription factor binding sites in families of DNA sequences. The information is displayed in a manner that can be easily understood and can reveal patterns that might not otherwise have been noticed. In addition to web-based output, Theatre can produce publication quality colour hardcopies showing predicted features in aligned genomic sequences. A case study using the p53 promoter region of four mammalian species and two fish species is described. Unlike the mammalian sequences the promoter regions in fish have not been previously predicted or characterized and we report the differences in the p53 promoter region of four mammals and that predicted for two fish species. Theatre can be accessed at http://www.hgmp.mrc.ac.uk/Registered/Webapp/theatre/.
MultiPipMaker and supporting tools: Alignments and analysis of multiple genomic DNA sequences.	Analysis of multiple sequence alignments can generate important, testable hypotheses about the phylogenetic history and cellular function of genomic sequences. We describe the MultiPipMaker server, which aligns multiple, long genomic DNA sequences quickly and with good sensitivity (available at http://bio.cse.psu.edu/ since May 2001). Alignments are computed between a contiguous reference sequence and one or more secondary sequences, which can be finished or draft sequence. The outputs include a stacked set of percent identity plots, called a MultiPip, comparing the reference sequence with subsequent sequences, and a nucleotide-level multiple alignment. New tools are provided to search MultiPipMaker output for conserved matches to a user-specified pattern and for conserved matches to position weight matrices that describe transcription factor binding sites (singly and in clusters). We illustrate the use of MultiPipMaker to identify candidate regulatory regions in WNT2 and then demonstrate by transfection assays that they are functional. Analysis of the alignments also confirms the phylogenetic inference that horses are more closely related to cats than to cows.
MAVID multiple alignment server.	MAVID is a multiple alignment program suitable for many large genomic regions. The MAVID web server allows biomedical researchers to quickly obtain multiple alignments for genomic sequences and to subsequently analyse the alignments for conserved regions. MAVID has been successfully used for the alignment of closely related species such as primates and also for the alignment of more distant organisms such as human and fugu. The server is fast, capable of aligning hundreds of kilobases in less than a minute. The multiple alignment is used to build a phylogenetic tree for the sequences, which is subsequently used as a basis for identifying conserved regions in the alignment. The server can be accessed at http://baboon.math.berkeley.edu/mavid/.
EnteriX 2003: Visualization tools for genome alignments of Enterobacteriaceae.	We describe EnteriX, a suite of three web-based visualization tools for graphically portraying alignment information from comparisons among several fixed and user-supplied sequences from related enterobacterial species, anchored on a reference genome (http://bio.cse.psu.edu/). The first visualization, Enteric, displays stacked pairwise alignments between a reference genome and each of the related bacteria, represented schematically as PIPs (Percent Identity Plots). Encoded in the views are large-scale genomic rearrangement events and functional landmarks. The second visualization, Menteric, computes and displays 1 Kb views of nucleotide-level multiple alignments of the sequences, together with annotations of genes, regulatory sites and conserved regions. The third, a Java-based tool named Maj, displays alignment information in two formats, corresponding roughly to the Enteric and Menteric views, and adds zoom-in capabilities. The uses of such tools are diverse, from examining the multiple sequence alignment to infer conserved sites with potential regulatory roles, to scrutinizing the commonalities and differences between the genomes for pathogenicity or phylogenetic studies. The EnteriX suite currently includes >15 enterobacterial genomes, generates views centered on four different anchor genomes and provides support for including user sequences in the alignments.
MGAlignIt: A web service for the alignment of mRNA/EST and genomic sequences.	Splicing is a biological phenomenon that removes the non-coding sequence from the transcripts to produce a mature transcript suitable for translation. To study this phenomenon, information on the intron-exon arrangement of a gene is essential, usually obtained by aligning mRNA/EST sequences to their cognate genomic sequences. MGAlign is a novel, rapid, memory efficient and practical method for aligning mRNA/EST and genome sequences. We present here a freely available web service, MGAlignIt (http://origin.bic.nus.edu.sg/mgalign/mgalignit), based on MGAlign. Besides the alignment itself, this web service allows users to effectively visualize the alignment in a graphical manner and to perform limited analysis on the alignment output. The server also permits the alignment to be saved in several forms, both graphical and text, suitable for further processing and analysis by other programs.
RevTrans: Multiple alignment of coding DNA from aligned amino acid sequences.	The simple fact that proteins are built from 20 amino acids while DNA only contains four different bases, means that the 'signal-to-noise ratio' in protein sequence alignments is much better than in alignments of DNA. Besides this information-theoretical advantage, protein alignments also benefit from the information that is implicit in empirical substitution matrices such as BLOSUM-62. Taken together with the generally higher rate of synonymous mutations over non-synonymous ones, this means that the phylogenetic signal disappears much more rapidly from DNA sequences than from the encoded proteins. It is therefore preferable to align coding DNA at the amino acid level and it is for this purpose we have constructed the program RevTrans. RevTrans constructs a multiple DNA alignment by: (i) translating the DNA; (ii) aligning the resulting peptide sequences; and (iii) building a multiple DNA alignment by 'reverse translation' of the aligned protein sequences. In the resulting DNA alignment, gaps occur in groups of three corresponding to entire codons, and analogous codon positions are therefore always lined up. These features are useful when constructing multiple DNA alignments for phylogenetic analysis. RevTrans also accepts user-provided protein alignments for greater control of the alignment process. The RevTrans web server is freely available at http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/RevTrans/.
PromH: Promoters identification using orthologous genomic sequences.	Accurate prediction of promoters is fundamental for understanding gene expression patterns, cell specificity and development. In the studies of conserved features of regulatory regions of orthologous genes, it was observed that major promoter functional components such as transcription start points, TATA-boxes and regulatory motifs, are significantly more conservative than the sequences around them (70-100% compared with 30-50%). To improve promoter identification accuracy, we employed these findings in a new program, PromH, created by extending the TSSW program feature set. PromH uses linear discriminant functions that take into account conservation features and nucleotide sequences of promoter regions in pairs of orthologous genes. The program was tested on two sets of pairs of orthologous, mostly human and rodent, sequences with known transcription start sites (TSS), annotated to have TATA (21 genes, 11 orthologous pairs) and TATA-less (38 genes, 19 pairs) promoters, respectively. The program correctly predicted TSS for all 21 genes of the first set with a median deviation of 2 bp from true site location. Only for two genes, was there significant (46 and 105 bp) discrepancy between predicted and annotated TSS positions. For 38 TATA-less promoters from the second set, TSS was predicted for 27 genes, in 14 cases within 10 bp distance from annotated TSS, and in 21 cases--within 100 bp distance. Despite more discrepancies between predicted and annotated TSS for genes from the second set, these results are consistent with observations of much higher occurrence of multiple TSS in TATA-less promoters. In any case, our results show that PromH identifies TSS positions significantly more accurately than any other published promoter prediction method. The PromH program is available at http://www.softberry.com/berry.phtml?topic=promh.
FIE2: A program for the extraction of genomic DNA sequences around the start and translation initiation site of human genes.	FIE2 (5' end Information Extraction v2) is a web-based program for easy identification and extraction of nucleotide sequence around the start of genes (promoter region) and their translation initiation site (TIS). Using information provided by the National Center for Biotechnology Information's (NCBI's) LocusLink, FIE2 identifies the 5'-most end of a gene on its respective chromosome based on alignment of a selected set of mRNAs representative of the gene. FIE2 then uses currently available human genome sequence information to extract the desired sequences. The accuracy of the information extracted is therefore limited by the accuracy and completeness of the sequence annotation and sequence alignment provided by LocusLink. In addition, multiple TIS positions are also occasionally presented, for example, as a result of multiple alignments of transcript variants. One of the key criteria of FIE2 is that it should extract only the correct information or attempt no extraction at all. To date, the authors are not aware of any publicly available web-based tool that uses the human genomic sequence to extract pertinent promoter- and TIS-region information in this fashion. FIE2 is freely available at http://sdmc.lit.org.sg/FIE2.0.
PromoSer: A large-scale mammalian promoter and transcription start site identification service.	Proximal promoters have a major impact on transcriptional regulation. Studies of the sequence-based nature of this regulation usually require collection of proximal promoter sequences for large sets of co-regulated genes. We report a newly implemented web service that facilitates extraction of user specified regions around the transcription start site of all annotated human, mouse or rat genes. The transcription start sites have been identified computationally by considering alignments of a large number of partial and full-length mRNA sequences to genomic DNA, with provision for alternative promoters. The service is publicly available at http://biowulf.bu.edu/zlab/PromoSer/.
Dragon Gene Start Finder identifies approximate locations of the 5' ends of genes.	Recognition of gene starts is a difficult and yet unsolved problem. We present a program, Dragon Gene Start Finder (DGSF), which assesses the gene start in mammalian genomes and predicts a region which should overlap with the first exon of the gene or be in its proximity. The program has been rigorously tested on human chromosomes 4, 21 and 22, and in a strand specific search achieves an overall sensitivity of approximately 65% and a positive predictive value of approximately 78%. The sensitivity for the CpG-island related promoters is >88%. DGSF is free for academic and non-profit users at http://sdmc.lit.org.sg/promoter/dragonGSF1_0/genestart.htm; the download version of the program integrated within the TRANSPLORER package can be obtained from Biobase GmbH, at http://www.biobase.de/.
ETOPE: Evolutionary test of predicted exons.	Since a large number of computationally predicted exons are not supported by existing sequence (e.g. ESTs) or experimental (e.g. expression analysis) data they need to be validated by other methods. ETOPE is designed to test computational predictions by using signals that have not been included in any current computational prediction method. The test is based on the ratio of non-synonymous to synonymous substitution rates between sequences from different genomes. It has been previously shown, by empirical data and computer simulation, to be a powerful criterion for identifying protein-coding regions. The ETOPE is available at http://nekrut.uchicago.edu/etope/.
SiteSeer: Visualisation and analysis of transcription factor binding sites in nucleotide sequences.	The regulation of gene expression is a fundamental process within every living cell, which allows organisms to manage the precise levels of functional gene products with high sensitivity. It is well established that specific DNA sequences located upstream of the transcriptional start site are important in facilitating the binding of regulatory proteins that control the transcription of the gene. Indeed, microarray-based studies have successfully mined the upstream regions of co-expressed genes and discovered over-represented sequences corresponding to known promoter sites. Here we describe a tool for the visualisation of mapped transcription factor binding sites in the upstream regions of either single or grouped eukaryotic genes, which allows users to examine the positions of known and user-defined sites (http://rocky.bms.umist.ac.uk/SiteSeer/). SiteSeer allows the user to map different sections of the TRANSFAC and SCPD databases (or a set of user-defined sites) onto nucleotide sequences. Additionally, users may restrict the analysis by expectation values for certain DNA words as well as by known binding sites specific to a given organism. We believe this tool will prove particularly valuable for biologists who wish to examine sets of co-expressed or functionally-related genes and those who wish to visualise the positions of promoter sequences and generate displays for publications.
MATCH: A tool for searching transcription factor binding sites in DNA sequences.	Match is a weight matrix-based tool for searching putative transcription factor binding sites in DNA sequences. Match is closely interconnected and distributed together with the TRANSFAC database. In particular, Match uses the matrix library collected in TRANSFAC and therefore provides the possibility to search for a great variety of different transcription factor binding sites. Several sets of optimised matrix cut-off values are built in the system to provide a variety of search modes of different stringency. The user may construct and save his/her specific user profiles which are selected subsets of matrices including default or user-defined cut-off values. Furthermore a number of tissue-specific profiles are provided that were compiled by the TRANSFAC team. A public version of the Match tool is available at: http://www.gene-regulation.com/pub/programs.html#match. The same program with a different web interface can be found at http://compel.bionet.nsc.ru/Match/Match.html. An advanced version of the tool called Match Professional is available at http://www.biobase.de.
Gibbs Recursive Sampler: finding transcription factor binding sites.	The Gibbs Motif Sampler is a software package for locating common elements in collections of biopolymer sequences. In this paper we describe a new variation of the Gibbs Motif Sampler, the Gibbs Recursive Sampler, which has been developed specifically for locating multiple transcription factor binding sites for multiple transcription factors simultaneously in unaligned DNA sequences that may be heterogeneous in DNA composition. Here we describe the basic operation of the web-based version of this sampler. The sampler may be acces-sed at http://bayesweb.wadsworth.org/gibbs/gibbs.html and at http://www.bioinfo.rpi.edu/applications/bayesian/gibbs/gibbs.html. An online user guide is available at http://bayesweb.wadsworth.org/gibbs/bernoulli.html and at http://www.bioinfo.rpi.edu/applications/bayesian/gibbs/manual/bernoulli.html. Solaris, Solaris.x86 and Linux versions of the sampler are available as stand-alone programs for academic and not-for-profit users. Commercial licenses are also available. The Gibbs Recursive Sampler is distributed in accordance with the ISCB level 0 guidelines and a requirement for citation of use in scientific publications.
YMF: A program for discovery of novel transcription factor binding sites by statistical overrepresentation.	A fundamental challenge facing biologists is to identify DNA binding sites for unknown regulatory factors, given a collection of genes believed to be coregulated. The program YMF identifies good candidates for such binding sites by searching for statistically overrepresented motifs. More specifically, YMF enumerates all motifs in the search space and is guaranteed to produce those motifs with greatest z-scores. This note describes the YMF web software, available at http://bio.cs.washington.edu/software.html.
Target Explorer: An automated tool for the identification of new target genes for a specified set of transcription factors.	With the increasing number of eukaryotic genomes available, high-throughput automated tools for identification of regulatory DNA sequences are becoming increasingly feasible. Several computational approaches for the prediction of regulatory elements were recently developed. Here we combine the prediction of clusters of binding sites for transcription factors with context information taken from genome annotations. Target Explorer automates the entire process from the creation of a customized library of binding sites for known transcription factors through the prediction and annotation of putative target genes that are potentially regulated by these factors. It was specifically designed for the well-annotated Drosophila melanogaster genome, but most options can be used for sequences from other genomes as well. Target Explorer is available at http://trantor.bioc.columbia.edu/Target_Explorer/
Regulatory sequence analysis tools.	The web resource Regulatory Sequence Analysis Tools (RSAT) (http://rsat.ulb.ac.be/rsat) offers a collection of software tools dedicated to the prediction of regulatory sites in non-coding DNA sequences. These tools include sequence retrieval, pattern discovery, pattern matching, genome-scale pattern matching, feature-map drawing, random sequence generation and other utilities. Alternative formats are supported for the representation of regulatory motifs (strings or position-specific scoring matrices) and several algorithms are proposed for pattern discovery. RSAT currently holds >100 fully sequenced genomes and these data are regularly updated from GenBank.
GeneSeqer@PlantGDB: Gene structure prediction in plant genomes.	The GeneSeqer@PlantGDB Web server (http://www.plantgdb.org/cgi-bin/GeneSeqer.cgi) provides a gene structure prediction tool tailored for applications to plant genomic sequences. Predictions are based on spliced alignment with source-native ESTs and full-length cDNAs or non-native probes derived from putative homologous genes. The tool is illustrated with applications to refinement of current gene structure annotation and de novo annotation of draft genomic sequences. The service should facilitate expert annotation as a community effort by providing convenient access to all public plant sequences via the PlantGDB database, a simple four-step protocol for spliced alignment and visually appealing displays of the predicted gene structures in addition to detailed sequence alignments.
GlimmerM, Exonomy and Unveil: three ab initio eukaryotic genefinders.	We present three programs for ab initio gene prediction in eukaryotes: Exonomy, Unveil and GlimmerM. Exonomy is a 23-state Generalized Hidden Markov Model (GHMM), Unveil is a 283-state standard Hidden Markov Model (HMM) and GlimmerM is a previously-described genefinder which utilizes decision trees and Interpolated Markov Models (IMMs). All three are readily re-trainable for new organisms and have been found to perform well compared to other genefinders. Results are presented for Arabidopsis thaliana. Cases have been found where each of the genefinders outperforms each of the others, demonstrating the collective value of this ensemble of genefinders. These programs are all accessible through webservers at http://www.tigr.org/software.
Dragon ERE Finder version 2: A tool for accurate detection and analysis of estrogen response elements in vertebrate genomes.	We present a unique program for identification of estrogen response elements (EREs) in genomic DNA and related analyses. The detection algorithm was tested on several large datasets and makes one prediction in 13 300 nt while achieving a sensitivity of 83%. Users can further investigate selected regions around the identified ERE patterns for transcription factor binding sites based on the TRANSFAC database. It is also possible to search for candidate human genes with a match for the identified EREs and their flanking regions within EPD annotated promoters. Additionally, users can search among the extended promoter regions of approximately 11 000 human genes for those that have a high degree of similarity to the identified ERE patterns. Dragon ERE Finder version 2 is freely available for academic and non-profit users (http://sdmc.lit.org.sg/ERE-V2/index).
PatSearch: A program for the detection of patterns and structural motifs in nucleotide sequences.	Regulation of gene expression at transcriptional and post-transcriptional level involves the interaction between short DNA or RNA tracts and the corresponding trans-acting protein factors. Detection of such cis-acting elements in genome-wide screenings may significantly contribute to genome annotation and comparative analysis as well as to target functional characterization experiments. We present here PatSearch, a flexible and fast pattern matcher able to search for specific combinations of oligonucleotide consensus sequences, secondary structure elements and position-weight matrices. It can also allow for mismatches/mispairings below a user fixed threshold. We report three different applications of the program in the search of complex patterns such as those of the iron responsive element hairpin-loop structure, the p53 responsive element and a promoter module containing CAAT-, TATA- and cap-boxes. PatSearch is available on the web at http://bighost.area.ba.cnr.it/BIG/PatSearch/.
Signal search analysis server.	Signal search analysis is a general method to discover and characterize sequence motifs that are positionally correlated with a functional site (e.g. a transcription or translation start site). The method has played an instrumental role in the analysis of eukaryotic promoter elements. The signal search analysis server provides access to four different computer programs as well as to a large number of precompiled functional site collections. The programs offered allow: (i) the identification of non-random sequence regions under evolutionary constraint; (ii) the detection of consensus sequence-based motifs that are over- or under-represented at a particular distance from a functional site; (iii) the analysis of the positional distribution of a consensus sequence- or weight matrix-based sequence motif around a functional site; and (iv) the optimization of a weight matrix description of a locally over-represented sequence motif. These programs can be accessed at: http://www.isrec.isb-sib.ch/ssa/.
The web server of IBM's Bioinformatics and Pattern Discovery group.	We herein present and discuss the services and content which are available on the web server of IBM's Bioinformatics and Pattern Discovery group. The server is operational around the clock and provides access to a variety of methods that have been published by the group's members and collaborators. The available tools correspond to applications ranging from the discovery of patterns in streams of events and the computation of multiple sequence alignments, to the discovery of genes in nucleic acid sequences and the interactive annotation of amino acid sequences. Additionally, annotations for more than 70 archaeal, bacterial, eukaryotic and viral genomes are available on-line and can be searched interactively. The tools and code bundles can be accessed beginning at http://cbcsrv.watson.ibm.com/Tspd.html whereas the genomics annotations are available at http://cbcsrv.watson.ibm.com/Annotations/.
Identification of patterns in biological sequences at the ALGGEN server: PROMO and MALGEN.	In this paper we present several web-based tools to identify conserved patterns in sequences. In particular we present details on the functionality of PROMO version 2.0, a program for the prediction of transcription factor binding site in a single sequence or in a group of related sequences and, of MALGEN, a tool to visualize sequence correspondences among long DNA sequences. The web tools and associated documentation can be accessed at http://www.lsi.upc.es/~alggen (RESEARCH link).
MAK, a computational tool kit for automated MITE analysis.	Miniature inverted repeat transposable elements (MITEs) are ubiquitous and numerous in higher eukaryotic genomes. Analysis of MITE families is laborious and time consuming, especially when multiple MITE families are involved in the study. Based on the structural characteristics of MITEs and genetic principles for transposable elements (TEs), we have developed a computational tool kit named MITE analysis kit (MAK) to automate the processes (http://perl.idmb.tamu.edu/mak.htm). In addition to its ability to routinely retrieve family member sequences and to report the positions of these elements relative to the closest neighboring genes, MAK is a powerful tool for revealing anchor elements that link MITE families to known transposable element families. Implementation of the MAK is described, as are genetic principles and algorithms used in its derivation. Test runs of the programs for several MITE families yielded anchor sequences that retain TIRs and coding regions reminiscent of transposases. These anchor sequences are consistent with previously reported putative autonomous elements for these MITE families. Furthermore, analysis of two MITE families with no known links to any transposon family revealed two novel transposon families, namely Math and Kid, belonging to the IS5/Harbinger/PIF superfamily.
Cluster-Buster: Finding dense clusters of motifs in DNA sequences.	The signals that determine activation and repression of specific genes in response to appropriate stimuli are one of the most important, but least understood, types of information encoded in genomic DNA. The nucleotide sequence patterns, or motifs, preferentially bound by various transcription factors have been collected in databases. However, these motifs appear to be individually too short and degenerate to enable detection of functional enhancer and silencer elements within a large genome. Several groups have proposed that dense clusters of motifs may diagnose regulatory regions more accurately. Cluster-Buster is the third incarnation of our software for finding clusters of pre-specified motifs in DNA sequences. We offer a Cluster-Buster web server at http://zlab.bu.edu/cluster-buster/.
SIC: A tool to detect short inverted segments in a biological sequence.	The web software SIC provides a tool to search for short inverted segments (length 3-5000 bp) in a DNA sequence. The sequence is assumed to follow a Markov model. A statistic which is sensitive to inversion is presented. Searching inverted segments is done by a scanning approach after the user specifies the size of the scanning window and the order of the Markov chain. A list of the highest score segments is given with an assessment of the randomness of the result. SIC can be accessed via the URL: http://stat.genopole.cnrs.fr/SIC/.
mreps: Efficient and flexible detection of tandem repeats in DNA.	The presence of repeated sequences is a fundamental feature of genomes. Tandemly repeated DNA appears in both eukaryotic and prokaryotic genomes, it is associated with various regulatory mechanisms and plays an important role in genomic fingerprinting. In this paper, we describe mreps, a powerful software tool for a fast identification of tandemly repeated structures in DNA sequences. mreps is able to identify all types of tandem repeats within a single run on a whole genomic sequence. It has a resolution parameter that allows the program to identify 'fuzzy' repeats. We introduce main algorithmic solutions behind mreps, describe its usage, give some execution time benchmarks and present several case studies to illustrate its capabilities. The mreps web interface is accessible through http://www.loria.fr/mreps/.
SPA: Simple web tool to assess statistical significance of DNA patterns.	Many statistical methods and programs are available to compute the significance of a given DNA pattern in a genome sequence. In this paper, after outlining the mathematical background of this problem, we present SPA (Statistic for PAtterns), an expert system with a simple web interface designed to be applied to two of these methods (large deviation approximations and exact computations using simple recurrences). A few results are presented, leading to a comparison between the two methods and to a simple decision rule in the choice of that to be used. Finally, future developments of SPA are discussed. This tool is available at the following address: http://stat.genopole.cnrs.fr/SPA/.
TRACTS: A program to map oligopurine.oligopyrimidine and other binary DNA tracts.	A program to map the locations and frequencies of DNA tracts composed of only two bases ('Binary DNA') is described. The program, TRACTS (URL http://bioportal.weizmann.ac.il/tracts/tracts.html and/or http://bip.weizmann.ac.il/miwbin/servers/tracts) is of interest because long tracts composed of only two bases are highly over-represented in most genomes. In eukaryotes, oligopurine.oligopyrimidine tracts ('R.Y tracts') are found in the highest excess. In prokaryotes, W tracts predominate (A,T 'rich'). A pre-program, ANEX, parses database annotation files of GenBank and EMBL, to produce a convenient one-line list of every gene (exon, intron) in a genome. The main unit lists and analyzes tracts of the three possible binary pairs (R.Y, K.M and S;W). As an example, the results of R.Y tract mapping of mammalian gene p53 is described.
DNA analysis servers: plot.it, bend.it, model.it and IS.	The WWW servers at http://www.icgeb.trieste.it/dna/ are dedicated to the analysis of user-submitted DNA sequences; plot.it creates parametric plots of 45 physicochemical, as well as statistical, parameters; bend.it calculates DNA curvature according to various methods. Both programs provide 1D as well as 2D plots that allow localisation of peculiar segments within the query. The server model.it creates 3D models of canonical or bent DNA starting from sequence data and presents the results in the form of a standard PDB file, directly viewable on the user's PC using any molecule manipulation program. The recently established introns server allows statistical evaluation of introns in various taxonomic groups and the comparison of taxonomic groups in terms of length, base composition, intron type etc. The options include the analysis of splice sites and a probability test for exon-shuffling.
NEBcutter: A program to cleave DNA with restriction enzymes.	NEBcutter, version 1.0, is a program available via a web server (http://tools.neb.com/NEBcutter) that will accept an input DNA sequence and produce a comprehensive report of the restriction enzymes that will cleave the sequence. It produces a variety of outputs including restriction enzyme maps, theoretical digests and links into the restriction enzyme database, REBASE (http://www.neb.com/rebase). Importantly, its table of recognition sites is updated daily from REBASE and it marks all sites that are potentially affected by DNA methylation (Dam, Dcm, etc.). Many options exist to choose the enzymes used for digestion, including all known specificities, subsets of those that are commercially available or sets of enzymes that produce compatible termini.
Automated Gene Ontology annotation for anonymous sequence data.	Gene Ontology (GO) is the most widely accepted attempt to construct a unified and structured vocabulary for the description of genes and their products in any organism. Annotation by GO terms is performed in most of the current genome projects, which besides generality has the advantage of being very convenient for computer based classification methods. However, direct use of GO in small sequencing projects is not easy, especially for species not commonly represented in public databases. We present a software package (GOblet), which performs annotation based on GO terms for anonymous cDNA or protein sequences. It uses the species independent GO structure and vocabulary together with a series of protein databases collected from various sites, to perform a detailed GO annotation by sequence similarity searches. The sensitivity and the reference protein sets can be selected by the user. GOblet runs automatically and is available as a public service on our web server. The paper also addresses the reliability of automated GO annotations by using a reference set of more than 6000 human proteins. The GOblet server is accessible at http://goblet.molgen.mpg.de.
ESTAnnotator: A tool for high throughput EST annotation.	In high throughput sequence analysis, it is often necessary to combine the results of contemporary bioinformatics tools, because no individual tool alone computes all the requested information. ESTAnnotator is a tool for the high throughput annotation of expressed sequence tags (ESTs) by automatically running a collection of bioinformatics applications. In the first step, a quality check is performed and repeats, vector parts and low quality sequences are masked. Then successive steps of database searching and EST clustering are performed. Already known transcripts present within mRNA and genomic DNA reference databases are identified. Subsequently, tools for the clustering of anonymous ESTs, and for further database searches at the protein level, are applied. Finally, the outputs of each individual tool are gathered and the relevant results presented in a descriptive summary. ESTAnnotator was already successfully applied for the systematic identification and characterisation of novel human genes involved in cartilage/bone formation, growth, differentiation and homeostasis. ESTAnnotator is available at http://genome.dkfz-heidelberg.de, contact: genome@dkfz.de.
AMIGene: Annotation of MIcrobial Genes.	AMIGene (Annotation of MIcrobial Genes) is an application for automatically identifying the most likely coding sequences (CDSs) in a large contig or a complete bacterial genome sequence. The first step in AMIGene is dedicated to the construction of Markov models that fit the input genomic data (i.e. the gene model), followed by the combination of well-known gene-finding methods and an heuristic approach for the selection of the most likely CDSs. The web interface allows the user to select one or several gene models applied to the analysis of the input sequence by the AMIGene program and to visualize the list of predicted CDSs graphically and in a downloadable text format. The AMIGene web site is accessible at the following address: http://www.genoscope.cns.fr/agc/tools/amigene/index.html (
DNannotator: Annotation software tool kit for regional genomic sequences.	Sequence annotation is essential for genomics-based research. Investigators of a specific genomic region who have developed abundant local discoveries such as genes and genetic markers, or have collected annotations from multiple resources, can be overwhelmed by the difficulty in creating local annotation and the complexity of integrating all the annotations. Presenting such integrated data in a form suitable for data mining and high-throughput experimental design is even more daunting. DNannotator, a web application, was designed to perform batch annotation on a sizeable genomic region. It takes annotation source data, such as SNPs, genes, primers, and so on, prepared by the end-user and/or a specified target of genomic DNA, and performs de novo annotation. DNannotator can also robustly migrate existing annotations in GenBank format from one sequence to another. Annotation results are provided in GenBank format and in tab-delimited text, which can be imported and managed in a database or spreadsheet and combined with existing annotation as desired. Graphic viewers, such as Genome Browser or Artemis, can display the annotation results. Reference data (reports on the process) facilitating the user's evaluation of annotation quality are optionally provided. DNannotator can be accessed at http://sky.bsd.uchicago.edu/DNannotator.htm.
FrameD: A flexible program for quality check and gene prediction in prokaryotic genomes and noisy matured eukaryotic sequences.	We describe FrameD, a program that predicts coding regions in prokaryotic and matured eukaryotic sequences. Initially targeted at gene prediction in bacterial GC rich genomes, the gene model used in FrameD also allows to predict genes in the presence of frameshifts and partially undetermined sequences which makes it also very suitable for gene prediction and frameshift correction in unfinished sequences such as EST and EST cluster sequences. Like recent eukaryotic gene prediction programs, FrameD also includes the ability to take into account protein similarity information both in its prediction and its graphical output. Its performances are evaluated on different bacterial genomes. The web site (http://genopole.toulouse.inra.fr/bioinfo/FrameD/FD) allows direct prediction, sequence correction and translation and the ability to learn new models for new organisms.
EUGENE'HOM: A generic similarity-based gene finder using multiple homologous sequences.	EUGENE'HOM is a gene prediction software for eukaryotic organisms based on comparative analysis. EUGENE'HOM is able to take into account multiple homologous sequences from more or less closely related organisms. It integrates the results of TBLASTX analysis, splice site and start codon prediction and a robust coding/non-coding probabilistic model which allows EUGENE'HOM to handle sequences from a variety of organisms. The current target of EUGENE'HOM is plant sequences. The EUGENE'HOM web site is available at http://genopole.toulouse.inra.fr/bioinfo/eugene/EuGeneHom/cgi-bin/EuGeneHom.pl.
PROBEmer: A web-based software tool for selecting optimal DNA oligos.	PROBEmer (http://probemer.cs.loyola.edu) is a web-based software tool that enables a researcher to select optimal oligos for PCR applications and multiplex detection platforms including oligonucleotide microarrays and bead-based arrays. Given two groups of nucleic-acid sequences, a target group and a non-target group, the software identifies oligo sequences that occur in members of the target group, but not in the non-target group. To help predict potential cross hybridization, PROBEmer computes all near neighbors in the non-target group and displays their alignments. The software has been used to obtain genus-specific prokaryotic probes based on the 16S rRNA gene, gene-specific probes for expression analyses and PCR primers. In this paper, we describe how to use PROBEmer, the computational methods it employs, and experimental results for oligos identified by this software tool.
Primer Design Assistant (PDA): A web-based primer design tool.	Primer Design Assistant (PDA) is a web interface primer design service combined with thermodynamic theory to evaluate the fitness of primers. It runs in a Linux-Apache-MySQL-PHP structure on a PC equipped with dual CPU (Intel Pentium III 1.4 GHz) and 512 Mb of RAM. A succinct user interface of PDA is accomplished by built-in parameters setting. Advanced options on 5' GC content, 3' GC content, dimer check and hairpin check are available. The option of covered region constrains the PCR product to cover a user-defined segment. PDA accepts single sequence query or multiple ones in FASTA format. It produces optimal and homogenous primer pairs that meet the need in experimental design with large-scaled PCR amplifications. Considering the system loading, the size of a submitted sequence is limited to 10 kb and the total sequence number in a query is limited to 20. The authors may be contacted regarding other requirements for primer design. The web application can be found at http://dbb.nhri.org.tw/primer/.
WEB-THERMODYN: Sequence analysis software for profiling DNA helical stability.	WEB-THERMODYN analyzes DNA sequences and computes the DNA helical stability, i.e. the free energy required to unwind and separate the strands of the double helix. A helical stability profile across a selected DNA region or the entire sequence is generated by sliding-window analysis. WEB-THERMODYN can predict sites of low helical stability present at regulatory regions for transcription and replication and can be used to test the influence of mutations. The program can be accessed at: http://wings.buffalo.edu/gsa/dna/dk/WEBTHERMODYN/.
Comprehensive quantitative analyses of the effects of promoter sequence elements on mRNA transcription.	We have generated a WWW interface for automated comprehensive analyses of promoter regulatory motifs and the effect they exert on mRNA expression profiles. The server provides a wide spectrum of analysis tools that allow de novo discovery of regulatory motifs, along with refinement and in-depth investigation of fully or partially characterized motifs. The presented discovery and analysis tools are fundamentally different from existing tools in their basic rational, statistical background and specificity and sensitivity towards true regulatory elements. We thus anticipate that the service will be of great importance to the experimental and computational biology communities alike. The motif discovery and diagnosis workbench is available at http://longitude.weizmann.ac.il/rMotif/.
FootPrinter: A program designed for phylogenetic footprinting.	Phylogenetic footprinting is a method for the discovery of regulatory elements in a set of homologous regulatory regions, usually collected from multiple species. It does so by identifying the best conserved motifs in those homologous regions. This note describes web software that has been designed specifically for this purpose, making use of the phylogenetic relationships among the homologous sequences in order to make more accurate predictions. The software is called FootPrinter and is available at http://bio.cs.washington.edu/software.html.
GeneFizz: A web tool to compare genetic (coding/non-coding) and physical (helix/coil) segmentations of DNA sequences. Gene discovery and evolutionary perspectives.	The GeneFizz (http://pbga.pasteur.fr/GeneFizz) web tool permits the direct comparison between two types of segmentations for DNA sequences (possibly annotated): the coding/non-coding segmentation associated with genomic annotations (simple genes or exons in split genes) and the physics-based structural segmentation between helix and coil domains (as provided by the classical helix-coil model). There appears to be a varying degree of coincidence for different genomes between the two types of segmentations, from almost perfect to non-relevant. Following these two extremes, GeneFizz can be used for two purposes: ab initio physics-based identification of new genes (as recently shown for Plasmodium falciparum) or the exploration of possible evolutionary signals revealed by the discrepancies observed between the two types of information.
Geno2pheno: Estimating phenotypic drug resistance from HIV-1 genotypes.	Therapeutic success of anti-HIV therapies is limited by the development of drug resistant viruses. These genetic variants display complex mutational patterns in their pol gene, which codes for protease and reverse transcriptase, the molecular targets of current antiretroviral therapy. Genotypic resistance testing depends on the ability to interpret such sequence data, whereas phenotypic resistance testing directly measures relative in vitro susceptibility to a drug. From a set of 650 matched genotype-phenotype pairs we construct regression models for the prediction of phenotypic drug resistance from genotypes. Since the range of resistance factors varies considerably between different drugs, two scoring functions are derived from different sets of predicted phenotypes. Firstly, we compare predicted values to those of samples derived from 178 treatment-naive patients and report the relative deviance. Secondly, estimation of the probability density of 2000 predicted phenotypes gives rise to an intrinsic definition of a susceptible and a resistant subpopulation. Thus, for a predicted phenotype, we calculate the probability of membership in the resistant subpopulation. Both scores provide standardized measures of resistance that can be calculated from the genotype and are comparable between drugs. The geno2pheno system makes these genotype interpretations available via the Internet (http://www.genafor.org/).
High-throughput SNP analysis for genetic association studies.	Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are the most common type of genetic variation, and millions of SNPs are now documented. Because of their dense distribution across the genome, SNPs are viewed as ideal markers for large-scale genome-wide association studies to discover genes in common complex diseases, such as cancer. To enable such studies, researchers have constructed appropriate sets of SNP markers, by selecting SNPs that are common in major human populations and by charting the patterns of co-occurrence of SNPs, which could further guide marker selection. High-throughput SNP analysis technologies have also been developed, which can analyze thousands of SNPs in thousands of samples. As SNP analysis techniques and SNP marker sets are improving, researchers have begun to carry out large-scale genome scans for disease genes, with encouraging first results.
Integration of data and methods for genome analysis.	The development of genomic and post-genomic technologies has created an explosion in the quantity, diversity and availability of both biological data and methods of analysis. Biologists are currently facing the problem of using all these resources to convert raw data into new valuable knowledge. This review presents software platforms designed to handle data and/or methods in the context of genome analysis.
Database of repetitive elements in complete genomes and data mining using transcription factor binding sites.	Approximately 43% of the human genome is occupied by repetitive elements. Even more, around 51% of the rice genome is occupied by repetitive elements. The analysis presented here indicates that repetitive elements in complete genomes may have been very important in the evolutionary genomics. In this study, a database, called the Repeat Sequence Database, is first designed and implemented to store complete and comprehensive repetitive sequences. See http://rsdb.csie.ncu.edu.tw for more information. The database contains direct, inverted and palindromic repetitive sequences, and each repetitive sequence has a variable length ranging from seven to many hundred nucleotides. The repetitive sequences in the database are explored using a mathematical algorithm to mine rules on how combinations of individual binding sites are distributed among repetitive sequences in the database. Combinations of transcription factor binding sites in the repetitive sequences are obtained and then data mining techniques are applied to mine association rules from these combinations. The discovered associations are further pruned to remove insignificant associations and obtain a set of associations. The mined association rules facilitate efforts to identify gene classes regulated by similar mechanisms and accurately predict regulatory elements. Experiments are performed on several genomes including C. elegans, human chromosome 22, and yeast.
A Bayesian network approach to operon prediction.	In order to understand transcription regulation in a given prokaryotic genome, it is critical to identify operons, the fundamental units of transcription, in such species. While there are a growing number of organisms whose sequence and gene coordinates are known, by and large their operons are not known.
Preferential binding to DNA sequences of peptides related to a novel XPRK motif.	Two dodecapeptide amines: (WPRK)(3)NH(2)[WR-12] and (YPRK)(3)NH(2)[YR-12], and a 30-mer polypeptide amide (SP-30) were synthesized by solid-phase peptide methodology. DNase I footprinting studies on a 117-mer DNA showed that WR-12 and YR-12 bind selectively to DNA sequences in a manner similar to SP-30 which has a repeating SPK(R)K sequence. The most distinctive blockages seen with all three peptides occur at positions 26-30, 21-24 and 38-45 around sequences 5'-GAATT-3', 5'-TAAT-3' and 5'-AAAACGAC-3', respectively. However, it appears that YR-12 is better able to extend its recognition site to include CG pairs than is SP-30. At low concentrations YR-12 was able to induce enhanced rates of DNase I cleavage at regions surrounding some of its binding sites. To obtain further quantitative data supplementary to the footprinting work, equilibrium binding experiments were performed in which the binding of the two peptides to six decanucleotide duplexes was compared. Scatchard analyses indicated that WR-12 may be more selective for oligomers containing runs of consecutive purines or pyrimidines. On the other hand, YR-12 binds better to d(CTTAGACGTC)- d(GACGTCTAAG) than to the other oligomer duplexes, denoting selectivity for evenly distributed C/G and A/T sequences.
Comparative complete genome sequence analysis of the amino acid replacements responsible for the thermostability of Corynebacterium efficiens.	Corynebacterium efficiens is the closest relative of Corynebacterium glutamicum, a species widely used for the industrial production of amino acids. C. efficiens but not C. glutamicum can grow above 40 degrees C. We sequenced the complete C. efficiens genome to investigate the basis of its thermostability by comparing its genome with that of C. glutamicum. The difference in GC content between the species was reflected in codon usage and nucleotide substitutions. Our comparative genomic study clearly showed that there was tremendous bias in amino acid substitutions in all orthologous ORFs. Analysis of the direction of the amino acid substitutions suggested that three substitutions are important for the stability of the C. efficiens proteins: from lysine to arginine, serine to alanine, and serine to threonine. Our results strongly suggest that the accumulation of these three types of amino acid substitutions correlates with the acquisition of thermostability and is responsible for the greater GC content of C. efficiens.
Assessing the Drosophila melanogaster and Anopheles gambiae genome annotations using genome-wide sequence comparisons.	We performed genome-wide sequence comparisons at the protein coding level between the genome sequences of Drosophila melanogaster and Anopheles gambiae. Such comparisons detect evolutionarily conserved regions (ecores) that can be used for a qualitative and quantitative evaluation of the available annotations of both genomes. They also provide novel candidate features for annotation. The percentage of ecores mapping outside annotations in the A. gambiae genome is about fourfold higher than in D. melanogaster. The A. gambiae genome assembly also contains a high proportion of duplicated ecores, possibly resulting from artefactual sequence duplications in the genome assembly. The occurrence of 4063 ecores in the D. melanogaster genome outside annotations suggests that some genes are not yet or only partially annotated. The present work illustrates the power of comparative genomics approaches towards an exhaustive and accurate establishment of gene models and gene catalogues in insect genomes.
A rapid method of genomic array analysis of scaffold/matrix attachment regions (S/MARs) identifies a 2.5-Mb region of enhanced scaffold/matrix attachment at a human neocentromere.	Human neocentromeres are fully functional centromeres that arise at previously noncentromeric regions of the genome. We have tested a rapid procedure of genomic array analysis of chromosome scaffold/matrix attachment regions (S/MARs), involving the isolation of S/MAR DNA and hybridization of this DNA to a genomic BAC/PAC array. Using this procedure, we have defined a 2.5-Mb domain of S/MAR-enriched chromatin that fully encompasses a previously mapped centromere protein-A (CENP-A)-associated domain at a human neocentromere. We have independently verified this procedure using a previously established fluorescence in situ hybridization method on salt-treated metaphase chromosomes. In silico sequence analysis of the S/MAR-enriched and surrounding regions has revealed no outstanding sequence-related predisposition. This study defines the S/MAR-enriched domain of a higher eukaryotic centromere and provides a method that has broad application for the mapping of S/MAR attachment sites over large genomic regions or throughout a genome.
Use of molecular methods to identify the Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (MTBC) and other mycobacterial species and to detect rifampin resistance in MTBC isolates following growth detection with the BACTEC MGIT 960 system.	A prospective study was organized by using a total of 1,585 consecutive clinical specimens to determine whether biomass obtained from positive growth in the MGIT 960 system could be used directly in AccuProbe DNA hybridization tests, the PCR-based Inno-LiPA Rif.TB (LiPA) assay, and a PCR-based DNA sequencing of the rpoB gene for the rapid identification of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (MTBC) and other mycobacterial species and for the determination of rifampin (RIF) resistance in MTBC strains. The results were compared to routine culture, identification, and susceptibility testing techniques performed on the same samples. The study results revealed that the DNA AccuProbe assay (on the day of growth positivity) readily identified 95.7%, the LiPA assay readily identified 98.6%, and rpoB sequencing readily identified 97.1% of the 70 MTBC isolates from mycobacterial growth indicator tubes (MGIT). In addition, application of the LiPA for the identification and RIF susceptibility testing of the MTBC in growth-positive MGIT resulted in a turnaround time of less than 2 weeks after specimen receipt. Although DNA sequencing of rpoB required a slightly longer (16 days) turnaround time, this method was capable of identifying several species of nontuberculous mycobacteria in addition to identifying MTBC and determining RIF susceptibility or resistance. The molecular methods were also found to rapidly identify RIF-susceptible and -resistant MTBC in two of the three mixed mycobacterial cultures weeks earlier than conventional methods. In conclusion, the biomass obtained in MGIT at the time of growth positivity in the 960 system is sufficient for use in all three molecular tests, and this approach can reduce the turnaround time for reporting results.
Sources and magnitude of intralaboratory variability in a sequence-based genotypic assay for human immunodeficiency virus type 1 drug resistance.	We assessed the intralaboratory reproducibility of a system for sequencing human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) protease (PR) and reverse transcriptase (RT) by using replicate subanalyses of 46 plasma samples collected from HIV-1-infected, antiretroviral-experienced patients in order to determine the relative contributions of the different procedural steps to final sequence variability. Complete sequence concordance between duplicates of each sample was 99.4%. Complete and partial mismatches occurred scattered throughout the PR-RT genome segment at >300 positions. Approximately 75% of the discordances involved mixtures, some of which appeared at key resistance sites. Most differences were the result of the first-round RT-PCR procedure. Inter-rater concordance for sequence analysis and assembly was >99.9%. There was no observed correlation between the number or frequency of mismatches and plasma viral loads. A separate longitudinal analysis of a single routine control sample sequenced 103 times over 9 months consistently gave highly reproducible sequences (median percentage of nucleotide discordances, 0.04%; range, 0 to 0.2%). Finally, sequence data from 168 sequential samples collected from 22 patients with long-term, predominantly wild type HIV showed that intrapatient nucleotide concordance with individual index sequences ranged from 96.5 to 100%. Together, these results confirm that sequence-based genotyping can be a precise and reliable tool for monitoring HIV drug resistance, and they suggest that efforts to reduce variability should focus on the first RT-PCR step. Consequently, the data suggest that the composition of external quality assessment panels should be based on clinical HIV isolates rather than DNA clones.
Identification of Bacillus anthracis by rpoB sequence analysis and multiplex PCR.	Comparative sequence analysis was performed upon Bacillus anthracis and its closest relatives, B. cereus and B. thuringiensis. Portions of rpoB DNA from 10 strains of B. anthracis, 16 of B. cereus, 10 of B. thuringiensis, 1 of B. mycoides, and 1 of B. megaterium were amplified and sequenced. The determined rpoB sequences (318 bp) of the 10 B. anthracis strains, including five Korean isolates, were identical to those of Ames, Florida, Kruger B, and Western NA strains. Strains of the "B. cereus group" were separated into two subgroups, in which the B. anthracis strains formed a separate clade in the phylogenetic tree. However, B. cereus and B. thuringiensis could not be differentiated. Sequence analysis confirmed the five Korean isolates as B. anthracis. Based on the rpoB sequences determined in the present study, multiplex PCR generating either B. anthracis-specific amplicons (359 and 208 bp) or cap DNA (291 bp) in a virulence plasmid could be used for the rapid differential detection and identification of virulent B. anthracis.
Evaluation of the editing process in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 genotyping.	Sequencing-based human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) genotyping assays require subjective interpretation (editing) of sequence data from multiple primers to form consensus sequences and identify antiretroviral drug resistance mutations. We assessed interlaboratory variations in editing and their impact on the recognition of resistance mutations. Six samples were analyzed in a central laboratory by using a research-use-only HIV-1 genotyping system previously produced by Applied Biosystems. The electronic files of individual primer sequences from the samples were sent to 10 laboratories to compare sequence editing strategies. Each sequence data set included sequences from seven primers spanning protease codons 1 to 99 and reverse transcriptase codons 1 to 320. Each laboratory generated a consensus sequence for each sample and completed a questionnaire about editing strategy. The amount of editing performed, the concordance of consensus sequences among the laboratories, and the identification of resistance mutations were evaluated. Sequence agreement was high among the laboratories despite wide variations in editing strategies. All laboratories identified 66 (88%) of 75 resistance mutations in the samples. Nonconcordant identifications were made for 9 (12%) of the 75 mutations, all of which required editing for identification. These results indicate a need for standardized editing guidelines in genotyping assays. Proficiency in editing should be assessed in training and included in quality control programs for HIV-1 genotyping.
Phylogenetically and spatially conserved word pairs associated with gene-expression changes in yeasts.	Transcriptional regulation in eukaryotes often involves multiple transcription factors binding to the same transcription control region, and to understand the regulatory content of eukaryotic genomes it is necessary to consider the co-occurrence and spatial relationships of individual binding sites. The determination of conserved sequences (often known as phylogenetic footprinting) has identified individual transcription factor binding sites. We extend this concept of functional conservation to higher-order features of transcription control regions.
An applications-focused review of comparative genomics tools: capabilities, limitations and future challenges.	A team at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL) was given the task of using computational tools to speed up the development of DNA diagnostics for pathogen detection. This work will be described in another paper in this issue (see pages 133-149). To achieve this goal it was necessary to understand the merits and limitations of the various available comparative genomics tools. A review of some recent tools for multisequence/genome alignment and substring comparison is presented, within the general framework of applicability to a large-scale application. We note that genome alignments are important for many things, only one of which is pathogen detection. Understanding gene function, gene regulation, gene networks, phylogenetic studies and other aspects of evolution all depend on accurate nucleic acid and protein sequence alignment. Selecting appropriate tools can make a large difference in the quality of results obtained and the effort required.
Viewing and annotating sequence data with Artemis.	Artemis is a widely used software tool for annotating and viewing sequence data. No database is required to use Artemis. Instead, individual sequence data files can be analysed with little or no formatting, making it particularly suited to the study of small genomes and chromosomes, and straightforward for a novice user to get started. Since its release in 1999, Artemis has been used to annotate a diverse collection of prokaryotic and eukaryotic genomes, ranging from Streptomyces coelicolor to, more recently, a large proportion of the Plasmodium falciparum genome. Artemis allows annotated genomes to be easily browsed and makes it simple to add useful biological information to raw sequence data. This paper gives an overview of some of the features of Artemis and includes how it facilitates manual gene prediction and can provide an overview of entire chromosomes or small compact genomes--useful for uncovering unusual features such as pathogenicity islands.
Bayesian gene/species tree reconciliation and orthology analysis using MCMC.	Comparative genomics in general and orthology analysis in particular are becoming increasingly important parts of gene function prediction. Previously, orthology analysis and reconciliation has been performed only with respect to the parsimony model. This discards many plausible solutions and sometimes precludes finding the correct one. In many other areas in bioinformatics probabilistic models have proven to be both more realistic and powerful than parsimony models. For instance, they allow for assessing solution reliability and consideration of alternative solutions in a uniform way. There is also an added benefit in making model assumptions explicit and therefore making model comparisons possible. For orthology analysis, uncertainty has recently been addressed using parsimonious reconciliation combined with bootstrap techniques. However, until now no probabilistic methods have been available.
Methods for optimizing antiviral combination therapies.	Despite some progress with antiretroviral combination therapies, therapeutic success in the management of HIV-infected patients is limited. The evolution of drug-resistant genetic variants in response to therapy plays a key role in treatment failure and finding a new potent drug combination after therapy failure is considered challenging.
Predicting bacterial transcription units using sequence and expression data.	A key aspect of elucidating gene regulation in bacterial genomes is identifying the basic units of transcription. We present a method, based on probabilistic language models, that we apply to predict operons, promoters and terminators in the genome of Escherichia coli K-12. Our approach has two key properties: (i) it provides a coherent set of predictions for related regulatory elements of various types and (ii) it takes advantage of both DNA sequence and gene expression data, including expression measurements from inter-genic probes.
SNP and mutation discovery using base-specific cleavage and MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry.	Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) are believed to contribute strongly to the genetic variability in living beings, in particular their disease or drug side effect predispositions. Mutation-induced sequence variations are playing an important role in the development of cancer, among others. From this, it is clear that SNP and mutation discovery is of great interest in today's Life Sciences. Currently, such discovery is often performed utilizing electrophoresis-based Sanger Sequencing. Discovery of SNPs can also be performed by multiple sequence alignment of publicly available sequence data, but recent studies indicate that only a small percentage of SNPs can be discovered using this approach and, in particular, that SNPs with low frequency are often missed. Other SNP discovery methods only indicate the presence of a SNP in a sample region, but fail to resolve its characterization and localization.
Glocal alignment: finding rearrangements during alignment.	To compare entire genomes from different species, biologists increasingly need alignment methods that are efficient enough to handle long sequences, and accurate enough to correctly align the conserved biological features between distant species. The two main classes of pairwise alignments are global alignment, where one string is transformed into the other, and local alignment, where all locations of similarity between the two strings are returned. Global alignments are less prone to demonstrating false homology as each letter of one sequence is constrained to being aligned to only one letter of the other. Local alignments, on the other hand, can cope with rearrangements between non-syntenic, orthologous sequences by identifying similar regions in sequences; this, however, comes at the expense of a higher false positive rate due to the inability of local aligners to take into account overall conservation maps.
Fast identification and statistical evaluation of segmental homologies in comparative maps.	Chromosomal segments that share common ancestry, either through genomic duplication or species divergence, are said to be segmental homologs of one another. Their identification allows researchers to leverage knowledge of model organisms for use in other systems and is of value for studies of genome evolution. However, identification and statistical evaluation of segmental homologies can be a challenge when the segments are highly diverged.
Using guide trees to construct multiple-sequence evolutionary HMMs.	Score-based progressive alignment algorithms do dynamic programming on successive branches of a guide tree. The analogous probabilistic construct is an Evolutionary HMM. This is a multiple-sequence hidden Markov model (HMM) made by combining transducers (conditionally normalised Pair HMMs) on the branches of a phylogenetic tree.
Identification of functional clusters of transcription factor binding motifs in genome sequences: the MSCAN algorithm.	The identification of regulatory control regions within genomes is a major challenge. Studies have demonstrated that regulating regions can be described as locally dense clusters or modules of cis-acting transcription factor binding sites (TFBS). For well-described biological contexts, it is possible to train predictive algorithms to discern novel modules in genome sequences. However, utility of module detection methods has been severely limited by insufficient training data. For only a few tissues can one obtain sufficient numbers of literature-derived regulatory modules.
Detection and validation of single gene inversions.	The biologically meaningful algorithmic study of genome rearrangement should take into account the distribution of sizes of the rearranged genomic fragments. In particular, it is important to know the prevalence of short inversions in order to understand the patterns of gene order disruption observed in comparative genomics.
APDB: a novel measure for benchmarking sequence alignment methods without reference alignments.	We describe APDB, a novel measure for evaluating the quality of a protein sequence alignment, given two or more PDB structures. This evaluation does not require a reference alignment or a structure superposition. APDB is designed to efficiently and objectively benchmark multiple sequence alignment methods.
GeneLoc: exon-based integration of human genome maps.	Despite the numerous available whole-genome mapping resources, no comprehensive, integrated map of the human genome yet exists.
Genome-wide discovery of transcriptional modules from DNA sequence and gene expression.	In this paper, we describe an approach for understanding transcriptional regulation from both gene expression and promoter sequence data. We aim to identify transcriptional modules--sets of genes that are co-regulated in a set of experiments, through a common motif profile. Using the EM algorithm, our approach refines both the module assignment and the motif profile so as to best explain the expression data as a function of transcriptional motifs. It also dynamically adds and deletes motifs, as required to provide a genome-wide explanation of the expression data. We evaluate the method on two Saccharomyces cerevisiae gene expression data sets, showing that our approach is better than a standard one at recovering known motifs and at generating biologically coherent modules. We also combine our results with binding localization data to obtain regulatory relationships with known transcription factors, and show that many of the inferred relationships have support in the literature.
CREME: a framework for identifying cis-regulatory modules in human-mouse conserved segments.	The binding of transcription factors to specific regulatory sequence elements is a primary mechanism for controlling gene transcription. Recent findings suggest a modular organization of binding sites for transcription factors that cooperate in the regulation of genes. In this work we establish a framework for finding recurrent cis-regulatory modules in the promoters of a selected set of genes and scoring their statistical significance.
A probabilistic method to detect regulatory modules.	The discovery of cis-regulatory modules in metazoan genomes is crucial for understanding the connection between genes and organism diversity.
Scaling up accurate phylogenetic reconstruction from gene-order data.	Phylogenetic reconstruction from gene-order data has attracted increasing attention from both biologists and computer scientists over the last few years. Methods used in reconstruction include distance-based methods (such as neighbor-joining), parsimony methods using sequence-based encodings, Bayesian approaches, and direct optimization. The latter, pioneered by Sankoff and extended by us with the software suite GRAPPA, is the most accurate approach, but cannot handle more than about 15 genomes of limited size (e.g. organelles).
Skew in CG content near the transcription start site in Arabidopsis thaliana.	We have discovered a novel statistical feature of Arabidopsis thaliana genome that remarkably correlates with a position of transcription start site--CG skew peak. We hypothesize that the phenomenon can be explained by the higher mutability of unprotected cytosines.
Gene structure-based splice variant deconvolution using a microarray platform.	Alternative splicing allows a single gene to generate multiple mRNAs, which can be translated into functionally and structurally diverse proteins. One gene can have multiple variants coexisting at different concentrations. Estimating the relative abundance of each variant is important for the study of underlying biological function. Microarrays are standard tools that measure gene expression. But most design and analysis has not accounted for splice variants. Thus splice variant-specific chip designs and analysis algorithms are needed for accurate gene expression profiling.
Extraction of correlated gene clusters from multiple genomic data by generalized kernel canonical correlation analysis.	A major issue in computational biology is the reconstruction of pathways from several genomic datasets, such as expression data, protein interaction data and phylogenetic profiles. As a first step toward this goal, it is important to investigate the amount of correlation which exists between these data.
Preparation and biological application of carbon nanotube atomic force microscope probe]	The atomic force microscope (AFM) with an atomic resolution is a powerful tool for biological structure. The probe is an important part that determines the resolution of AFM. Carbon nanotube is becoming an ideal AFM probe due to its unique structure physical and chemical properties. Carbon nanotube AFM probes can be made by manual assembly or chemical vapor deposition. Several proteins, nucleic acids and cells have been investigated with carbon nanotube probes. Not only the high-resolution images but also the determination of specific DNA sequence and haplotype were acquired. Carbon nanotube AFM probe will increasingly play an important role in biological studies.
Establishment of a sequence-based typing system for BoLA-DRB3 exon 2.	A rapid, high-resolution sequence-based typing (SBT) system for BoLA-DRB3 exon 2 was developed. Amplification of the entire exon was achieved by a fully nested PCR with locus-specific primers and sequencing was performed directly on the PCR product. Heterozygous sequence data were obtained by automated sequence analysis of both alleles. Forward and reverse sequence data were assembled to improve identification of all heterozygous positions. Specific software (Haplofinder, Roslin Institute Software, Roslin, UK) was designed for allele assignment. Fifty-four females from a Holstein-Charolais resource herd cross, their 12 sires and five unrelated Holstein animals were used to establish the method. In parallel, these animals were typed by DRB3 polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) to confirm the results. Polymerase chain reaction-RFLP analysis defined 15 known types in the 71 animals, while SBT of the same animals showed 19 known alleles. Subsequently, 72 more animals from the same resource herd were typed by the established SBT method without PCR-RFLP typing. This SBT strategy and the Haplofinder software can be applied to the analysis of any polymorphic locus for which suitable locus-specific primers and allelic sequences are available.
Characterization of two new HLA-B alleles by sequence-based typing: HLA-B*0817 and HLA-B*1311.	In this brief communication we report the characterization of two new HLA-B variants officially named HLA-B*0817 and HLA-B*1311. The HLA-B*0817 allele was identified in a Caucasoid male candidate for renal transplantation in the North Italy Transplant program. The nucleotidic sequence of exons 2, 3 and 4 of this novel allele is identical to that of HLA-B*0804 except for three point mutations in exon 2: from A to G at position 259, from C to G at position 261 and from G to A at position 302. These mutations are responsible for two aminoacidic substitutions [Asn (r) Glu, codon 63, and Ser (r) Asn, codon 77]. HLA-B*1311 was found in a volunteer donor belonging to National Marrow Donor Program(R). This new variant is identical to that of HLA-B*1301 except for three nucleotide substitutions at positions 353, 355 and 369 leading to two aminoacidic variations from Ile to Thr at codon 94 and from Ile to Leu at codon 95 and a silent mutation at codon 99.
Phylogenetic analysis by 16S rDNA gene sequence comparison of avian taxa of Bisgaard and characterization and description of two new taxa of Pasteurellaceae.	Characterization and classification of members of Pasteurellaceae isolated from birds by extended phenotypic characterization and 16S rDNA gene sequence comparison.
A cellular automaton model for the study of DNA sequence evolution.	Cellular automata are introduced as a model for DNA structure, function and evolution. DNA is modeled as a one-dimensional cellular automaton with four states per cell. These states are the four DNA bases A, C, T and G. The four states are represented by numbers of the quaternary number system. Linear evolution rules, represented by square matrices, are considered. Based on this model a simulator of DNA evolution is developed and simulation results are presented. This simulator has a user-friendly input interface and can be used for the study of DNA evolution.
Alu repeat analysis in the complete human genome: trends and variations with respect to genomic composition.	Transposon-derived Alu repeats are exclusively associated with primate genomes. They have gained considerable importance in the recent times with evidence of their involvement in various aspects of gene regulation, e.g. alternative splicing, nucleosome positioning, CpG methylation, binding sites for transcription factors and hormone receptors, etc. The objective of this study is to investigate the factors that influence the distribution of Alu repeat elements in the human genome. Such analysis is expected to yield insights into various aspects of gene regulation in primates.
Gaussian mixture clustering and imputation of microarray data.	In microarray experiments, missing entries arise from blemishes on the chips. In large-scale studies, virtually every chip contains some missing entries and more than 90% of the genes are affected. Many analysis methods require a full set of data. Either those genes with missing entries are excluded, or the missing entries are filled with estimates prior to the analyses. This study compares methods of missing value estimation.
mdclust--exploratory microarray analysis by multidimensional clustering.	Unsupervised clustering of microarray data may detect potentially important, but not obvious characteristics of samples, for instance subgroups of diagnoses with distinct gene profiles or systematic errors in experimentation.
Finding coexpressed genes in counts-based data: an improved measure with validation experiments.	Expressed sequence tag (EST) data reflects variation in gene expression, but previous methods for finding coexpressed genes in EST data are subject to bias and vastly overstate the statistical significance of putatively coexpressed genes.
ESPD: a pattern detection model underlying gene expression profiles.	DNA arrays permit rapid, large-scale screening for patterns of gene expression and simultaneously yield the expression levels of thousands of genes for samples. The number of samples is usually limited, and such datasets are very sparse in high-dimensional gene space. Furthermore, most of the genes collected may not necessarily be of interest and uncertainty about which genes are relevant makes it difficult to construct an informative gene space. Unsupervised empirical sample pattern discovery and informative genes identification of such sparse high-dimensional datasets present interesting but challenging problems.
Comparative analysis of algorithms for signal quantitation from oligonucleotide microarrays.	Recent years' exponential increase in DNA microarrays experiments has motivated the development of many signal quantitation (SQ) algorithms. These algorithms perform various transformations on the actual measurements aimed to enable researchers to compare readings of different genes quantitatively within one experiment and across separate experiments. However, it is relatively unclear whether there is a 'best' algorithm to quantitate microarray data. The ability to compare and assess such algorithms is crucial for any downstream analysis. In this work, we suggest a methodology for comparing different signal quantitation algorithms for gene expression data. Our aim is to enable researchers to compare the effect of different SQ algorithms on the specific dataset they are dealing with. We combine two kinds of tests to assess the effect of an SQ algorithm in terms of signal to noise ratio. To assess noise, we exploit redundancy within the experimental dataset to test the variability of a given SQ algorithm output. For the effect of the SQ on the signal we evaluate the overabundance of differentially expressed genes using various statistical significance tests.
Gene selection for oligonucleotide array: an approach using PM probe level data.	Analysis of oligonucleotide array data, especially to select genes of interest, is a highly challenging task because of the large volume of information and various experimental factors. Moreover, interaction effect (i.e. expression changes depend on probe effects) complicates the analysis because current methods often use an additive model to analyze data. We propose an approach to address these issues with the aim of producing a more reliable selection of differentially expressed genes. The approach uses the rank for normalization, employs the percentile-range to measure expression variation, and applies various filters to monitor expression changes.
Approximate geodesic distances reveal biologically relevant structures in microarray data.	Genome-wide gene expression measurements, as currently determined by the microarray technology, can be represented mathematically as points in a high-dimensional gene expression space. Genes interact with each other in regulatory networks, restricting the cellular gene expression profiles to a certain manifold, or surface, in gene expression space. To obtain knowledge about this manifold, various dimensionality reduction methods and distance metrics are used. For data points distributed on curved manifolds, a sensible distance measure would be the geodesic distance along the manifold. In this work, we examine whether an approximate geodesic distance measure captures biological similarities better than the traditionally used Euclidean distance.
A rapid method for illustrating features in both coding and non-coding regions of a genome.	A bitmap display of the Fourier spectra has been developed which allows convenient whole chromosome scanning for genes and other features. Use of a limited sliding window gives rapid visualization and localization of coding regions in the chromosomes, as well as non-coding features such as repetitive DNA. The method works particularly well on organisms with a skewed base composition, to provide an overview of genomic features.
VARAN: a web server for variability analysis of DNA microarray experiments.	Here, we describe a tool for VARiability Analysis of DNA microarrays experiments (VARAN), a freely available Web server that performs a signal intensity based analysis of the log2 expression ratio variability deduced from DNA microarray data (one or two channels). Two modules are proposed: VARAN generator to compute a sliding windows analysis of the experimental variability (mean and SD) and VARAN analyzer to compare experimental data with an asymptotic variability model previously built with the generator module from control experiments. Both modules provide normalized intensity signals with five possible methods, log ratio values and a list of genes showing significant variations between conditions.
Gap statistics for whole genome shotgun DNA sequencing projects.	Investigators utilize gap estimates for DNA sequencing projects. Standard theories assume sequences are independently and identically distributed, leading to appreciable under-prediction of gaps.
Amplicon: software for designing PCR primers on aligned DNA sequences.	Amplicon is a program for designing PCR primers on aligned groups of DNA sequences. The most important application for Amplicon is the design of 'group-specific' PCR primer sets that amplify a DNA region from a given taxonomic group but do not amplify orthologous regions from other taxonomic groups.
Evaluation and optimization of clustering in gene expression data analysis.	A measurement of cluster quality is needed to choose potential clusters of genes that contain biologically relevant patterns of gene expression. This is strongly desirable when a large number of gene expression profiles have to be analyzed and proper clusters of genes need to be identified for further analysis, such as the search for meaningful patterns, identification of gene functions or gene response analysis.
BioOptimizer: a Bayesian scoring function approach to motif discovery.	Transcription factors (TFs) bind directly to short segments on the genome, often within hundreds to thousands of base pairs upstream of gene transcription start sites, to regulate gene expression. The experimental determination of TFs binding sites is expensive and time-consuming. Many motif-finding programs have been developed, but no program is clearly superior in all situations. Practitioners often find it difficult to judge which of the motifs predicted by these algorithms are more likely to be biologically relevant.
SeqExpress: desktop analysis and visualization tool for gene expression experiments.	SeqExpress is a stand-alone desktop application for the identification of relevant genes within collections of microarray or SAGE experiments. A number of analysis, filtering and visualization tools are provided to aid in the selection of groups of genes. If R is installed then the application can use this to provide further analysis.
matchprobes: a Bioconductor package for the sequence-matching of microarray probe elements.	The nucleotide sequences of the probes on a microarray can be used for a variety of purposes in the analysis of microarray experiments. We describe software and a paradigm for the creation of data packages for curating, distributing and working with probe sequence data in a uniform, across-types-of-microarrays manner. While the implementation is specific to the Bioconductor project, the ideas and general strategies are more general and could be easily adopted by other projects.
Common structural patterns in human genes.	A graphical representation of the exon-intron structure of various genes, such as that presented by the National Center for Biotechnology Information Map Viewer, suggests a digital waveform or pattern that varies either in amplitude or frequency. This observation suggests that different genes may have portions of their total exon-intron structure in common. The existence of common structural patterns across unrelated genes suggests the repeated insertion of transposable elements throughout the human genome and/or a common structural function.
Development of joint application strategies for two microbial gene finders.	As a starting point in annotation of bacterial genomes, gene finding programs are used for the prediction of functional elements in the DNA sequence. Due to the faster pace and increasing number of genome projects currently underway, it is becoming especially important to have performant methods for this task.
Analysis of AmpC beta-lactamase expression and sequence in biochemically atypical ceftazidime-resistant Enterobacteriaceae from paediatric patients.	To analyse the variation of ampC beta-lactamase gene sequence and expression in biochemically atypical Enterobacteriaceae isolates, and to identify them definitively.
Search for the insertion element IS256 within the ica locus of Staphylococcus epidermidis clinical isolates collected from biomaterial-associated infections.	Staphylococcus epidermidis biofilm-forming strains produce a polysaccharide intercellular adhesin (PIA), which mediates bacterial cell aggregation and favours the colonisation on prosthetic implants. PIA synthesis is regulated by the icaADBC locus. In vitro, by repeated subcultures of a biofilm-producing strain, the loss of the ability to produce biofilm appears associated with the insertion of the IS256 element into the ica locus. This study was aimed (i) to investigate if the five genes of ica locus are always all present in different strains of S. epidermidis, and (ii) to search if IS256 insertion naturally occurs in ica locus without making recourse to the experimental procedure of repeated subcultures of strains. 120 S. epidermidis clinical isolates from peri-prosthesis infections were investigated both by an original multiplex PCR analysis of the ica genes and by PCR amplification of the IS256 element. Also two reference strains (the biofilm-negative S. epidermidis ATCC 12228 and the biofilm-forming ATCC 35984 [RP62A]) and two biofilm-negative RP62A-derived acriflavin mutants (D9 and HAM892) were analysed. D9 e HAM892 were for the first time shown to contain in ica locus, at the base 3319, a 1300-bp insertion with a DNA sequence corresponding to IS256. Among the 120 clinical isolates, 51 (43%) turned out completely ica-positive, 69 completely ica-negative (57%). The genes of the ica locus appear, in all cases of the present collection, strictly linked each other, so they are either all present or all absent. In this collection, IS256 was present in eight out of the 69 ica-negative strains and in 34 out of the 51 ica-positive strains. IS256, also when present in bacterial genomic DNA, was never found inside the ica locus, thus suggesting that insertion/excision of this element is not a natural occurring mechanism for off/on switching of biofilm production.
Applicability of tandem mass spectrometry to the automated comparative sequencing of long-chain oligonucleotides.	An algorithm for the comparative sequencing (COMPAS) of oligonucleotides is shown to be suitable for the sequence verification of nucleic acids ranging in length from a few to 80 nucleotides. The algorithm is based on the matching of a fragment ion spectrum generated by collision-induced dissociation to m/z values predicted from a known reference sequence employing established fragmentation pathways. Prior to mass spectrometric investigation, the oligonucleotides were on-line purified by ion-pair reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography using monolithic separation columns. This study evaluated the potential and the limits of COMPAS regarding the length and the charge state of oligonucleotides, the selected collision energy, and the analyzed amount of sample using a quadrupole ion trap mass spectrometer. The results revealed that oligonucleotides could be very reliably re-sequenced up to 60-mers, although the algorithm was successfully used to even verify sequences up to 80-mers. The relative collision energy was typically in the range between 13 and 20%, which allowed in most cases a verification of the reference sequence in a window of at least three consecutive collision energies. To select a proper charge state for fragmentation, a compromise had to be found between high signal intensity and low charge state. Furthermore, by reducing the eluent flow rate during elution of the oligonucleotide, the sequence of a 50-mer was successfully verified from the analysis of 295 fmol of the raw product. COMPAS was proven to be reproducible and was applied to the genotyping of the polymorphic, Y-chromosomal locus M9 contained in a 62-base pair polymerase chain reaction product.
Short PNA molecular beacons for real-time PCR allelic discrimination of single nucleotide polymorphisms.	The typing of a single nucleotide polymorphism with DNA probes is sometimes problematic because of the limited discriminating power of long DNA probes. As an alternative to existing assays, we have developed a real-time PCR assay for the genotyping of single nucleotide polymorphisms using short peptide nucleic acid (PNA) molecular beacons. A single nucleotide polymorphism in exon 6 of the XPD gene was chosen as the model system. The genotyping experiments were performed in the ABI 7700 using beacons labeled with either fluorescein or JOE, and in the Lightcycler using a fluorescein labeled beacon. QSY-7 was used as the quencher in all the beacons. The result of the genotyping was the same on both instruments and was in agreement with a previously performed RFLP genotyping of 79 samples. The length of PNA molecular beacons is significantly shorter than that of TaqMan or Lightcycler probes, making probe design and genotype discrimination easier.
Single-nucleotide-polymorphism genotyping for whole-genome-amplified samples using automated fluorescence correlation spectroscopy.	Whole-genome amplification (WGA) methods were adopted for single-nucleotide-polymorphism (SNP) typing to minimize the amount of genomic DNA that has to be used in typing for thousands of different SNPs in large-scale studies; 5-10 ng of genomic DNA was amplified by a WGA method (improved primer-extension-preamplification-polymerase chain reaction (I-PEP-PCR), degenerated oligonucleotide primer-PCR (DOP-PCR), or multiple displacement amplification (MDA)). Using 1/100 to 1/500 amounts of the whole-genome-amplified products as templates, subsequent analyses were successfully performed. SNPs were genotyped by the sequence-specific primer (SSP)-PCR method followed by fluorescence correlation spectroscopy (FCS). The typing results were evaluated for four different SNPs on tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 and 2 genes (TNFR1 and TNFR2). The genotypes determined by the SSP-FCS method using the WGA products were 100% in concordance with those determined by nucleotide sequencing using genomic DNAs. We have already carried out typing of more than 300 different SNPs and are currently performing 7,500-10,000 typings per day using WGA samples from patients with several common diseases. WGA coupled with FCS allows specific and high-throughput genotyping of thousands of samples for thousands of different SNPs.
Identifying transcriptional regulatory sites in the human genome using an integrated system.	This work develops an integrated system which, after a set of genes are inputted, is able to predict transcriptional regulatory sites and to detect the co-occurrence of these regulatory sites. The system integrates several site detection methods such as known site matching, over-presented oligonucleotide detection and DNA motif discovery programs. User profiles and history pages enable users to trace the sequence analyses of these transcriptional regulatory sites. Two groups of co-regulated genes were used to test the proposed system. The results predicted by the proposed system consist of known site homologs and putative regulatory sites. By comparing these sites with previously published results, the proposed system is able to help biologists identify possible candidates for the regulatory sites from groups of co-regulated genes. The integrated system is now available at http://rgsminer. csie.ncu.edu.tw/.
Electrochemical coding of single-nucleotide polymorphisms by monobase-modified gold nanoparticles.	Rapidly increasing information about the human genome requires a fast and simple method for the detection of single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). To date, the conventional SNP detection technologies have been unable to identify all possible SNPs and needed further development in cost, speed, and sensitivity. Here we describe a novel method to discriminate and code all possible combinations. SNPs were coded by monitoring the changes in the electrochemical signal of the monobase-modified colloidal gold (Au) nanoparticles. First, a chitosan layer was formed on the alkanethiol self-assembled monolayer-modified Au nanoparticle. The monobases were then attached onto the chitosan-coated Au nanoparticles through their 5' phosphate group via the formation of a phosphoramidate bond with the free amino groups of chitosan. The size of the surface-modified Au nanoparticle was found to be 8.46 +/- 1.53 nm by using atomic force microscopy. If there is a SNP in DNA and the mismatched bases are complementary to the monobase, Au nanoparticles accumulate on the electrode surface in the presence of DNA polymerase I (Klenow fragment), thus resulting in a significant change in the Au oxide wave. In this report, monobase-modified Au nanoparticles show not only the presence of a SNP, but also identify which bases are involved within the pair. Especially, the identification of a transversion SNP, which contains a couple of the same pyrimidine or purine bases, is greatly simplified. A model study was performed by using a synthetic 21-base DNA probe related to tumor necrosis factor (TNF-alpha) along with its all possible mutant combinations. This versatile nanoparticle-based electrochemical protocol is a promising candidate for coding all mutational changes.
Characterization of genomic organization of the adenosine A2A receptor gene by molecular and bioinformatics analyses.	The adenosine A(2A) receptor (A(2A)R) is abundantly expressed in brain and emerging as an important therapeutic target for Parkinson's disease and potentially other neuropsychiatric disorders. To understand the molecular mechanisms of A(2A)R gene expression, we have characterized the genomic organization of the mouse and human A(2A)R genes by molecular and bioinformatic analyses. Three new exons (m1A, m1B and m1C) encoding the 5' untranslated regions (5'-UTRs) of mouse A(2A)R mRNA were identified by rapid amplification of 5' cDNA end (5' RACE), RT-PCR analysis and genome sequence analyses. Similar bioinformatics analysis also suggested six variants of the non-coding "exon 1" (h1A, h1B, h1C, h1D, h1E and h1F) in the human A(2A)R gene, which were confirmed by RT-PCR analysis, while three of the human exon 1 variants (h1D, h1E and h1F) were likewise verified by 5' oligonucleotide capping analysis suggesting multiple transcription start sites. Importantly, RT-PCR and quantitative PCR analysis demonstrated that the A(2A)R transcripts with different exon 1 variants displayed tissue-specific expression patterns. For instance, the mouse exon m1A mRNA was detected only in brain (specifically striatum) and the human exon h1D mRNA in lymphoreticular system. Furthermore, the determination of the three new transcription start sites of human A(2A)R gene by 5' oligonucleotide capping and bioinformatics analyses led to the identification of three corresponding promoter regions which contain several important cis elements, providing additional target for further molecular dissection of A(2A)R gene expression. Finally, our analysis indicates that A(2A)R mRNA and a novel transcript partially overlapping with the 3' exon h3, but in opposite orientation to the A(2A)R gene, could conceivably form duplexes to mutually regulate transcript expression. Thus, combined molecular and bioinformatics analyses revealed a new A(2A)R genomic structure, with conserved coding exons 2 and 3 and divergent, tissue-specific exon 1 variants encoding for 5'-UTR. This raises the possibility of generating multiple tissue-specific A(2A)R mRNA species by alternative promoters with varying regulatory susceptibility.
Fluorescence-based automated fragment analysis of microsatellite polymorphism within the transmembrane region of the MIC-A gene.	MHC class I chain-related genes (MIC) are located within the MHC class I region of chromosome 6. Sequence analysis of the MIC-A gene showed a trinucleotide repeat (GCT) microsatellite polymorphism within the transmembrane region. So far, six alleles of the exon 5 of the MIC-A gene, which consist of 4, 5, 6, 9 and 10 repetitions of GCT, or five repetitions of GCT with an additional nucleotide insertion (GGCT), have been identified. Recent works support the findings that MIC-A is associated with several autoimmune diseases. In our work we present a modification of a method used for microsatellite polymorphism detection within the transmembrane region of the MIC-A gene. It is the ALFexpress fluorescence-based automated fragment analysis. We also present the frequencies of MIC-A exon 5 alleles found in the Czech population. We have identified five alleles of the transmembrane region of MIC-A, which comprise 4, 5, 6 and 9 repetitions or five repetitions with an additional nucleotide insertion. The most frequent allele was A5.1 (59.3%) and the less frequent was the allele A5 (20.0%). No A7, A8 or A10 alleles were identified.
Cluster analysis of gene expression data based on self-splitting and merging competitive learning.	Cluster analysis of gene expression data from a cDNA microarray is useful for identifying biologically relevant groups of genes. However, finding the natural clusters in the data and estimating the correct number of clusters are still two largely unsolved problems. In this paper, we propose a new clustering framework that is able to address both these problems. By using the one-prototype-take-one-cluster (OPTOC) competitive learning paradigm, the proposed algorithm can find natural clusters in the input data, and the clustering solution is not sensitive to initialization. In order to estimate the number of distinct clusters in the data, we propose a cluster splitting and merging strategy. We have applied the new algorithm to simulated gene expression data for which the correct distribution of genes over clusters is known a priori. The results show that the proposed algorithm can find natural clusters and give the correct number of clusters. The algorithm has also been tested on real gene expression changes during yeast cell cycle, for which the fundamental patterns of gene expression and assignment of genes to clusters are well understood from numerous previous studies. Comparative studies with several clustering algorithms illustrate the effectiveness of our method.
UpGene: Application of a web-based DNA codon optimization algorithm.	Although DNA codon optimization is a standard molecular biology strategy to overcome poor gene expression, to date no public software exists to facilitate this process. Among the uses of codon optimization, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) vaccine development represents one of the most difficult challenges. A key obstacle to an effective DNA-based vaccine is the low-level expression of HIV genes in mammalian cells, which is due primarily to the instability of HIV mRNAs resulting from AU-rich elements and rare codon usage. In this report we describe the development of a DNA optimization algorithm integrated with a PCR primer design program to redesign specific coding sequences for maximal gene expression. Using this algorithm combination, together with PCR-based gene assembly, we have successfully optimized gene sequences for simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) strain mac239 structural antigenic proteins gag and env, resulting in high-level gene expression in eukaryotic cells. Our findings demonstrate that our user-friendly algorithm is a valuable tool for DNA-based HIV vaccine development. Moreover, it can be used to optimize any other genes of interest and is freely available online at http://www.vectorcore.pitt.edu/upgene.html.
Prediction of Saccharomyces cerevisiae replication origins.	Autonomously replicating sequences (ARSs) function as replication origins in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. ARSs contain the 17 bp ARS consensus sequence (ACS), which binds the origin recognition complex. The yeast genome contains more than 10,000 ACS matches, but there are only a few hundred origins, and little flanking sequence similarity has been found. Thus, identification of origins by sequence alone has not been possible.
A transcriptional timetable of autumn senescence.	We have developed genomic tools to allow the genus Populus (aspens and cottonwoods) to be exploited as a full-featured model for investigating fundamental aspects of tree biology. We have undertaken large-scale expressed sequence tag (EST) sequencing programs and created Populus microarrays with significant gene coverage. One of the important aspects of plant biology that cannot be studied in annual plants is the gene activity involved in the induction of autumn leaf senescence.
The genomic sequence and comparative analysis of the rat major histocompatibility complex.	We have determined the sequence of a 4-Mb interval on rat chromosome 20p12 that encompasses the rat major histocompatibility complex (MHC). This is the first report of a finished sequence for a segment of the rat genome and constitutes one of the largest contiguous sequences thus far for rodent genomes in general. The rat MHC is, next to the human MHC, the second mammalian MHC sequenced to completion. Our analysis has resulted in the identification of at least 220 genes located within the sequenced interval. Although gene content and order are well conserved in the class II and class III gene intervals as well as the framework gene regions, profound rat-specific features were encountered within the class I gene regions, in comparison to human and mouse. Class I region-associated differences were found both at the structural level, the number, and organization of class I genes and gene families, and, in a more global context, in the way that evolution worked to shape the present-day rat MHC.
Identification of rat genes by TWINSCAN gene prediction, RT-PCR, and direct sequencing.	The publication of a draft sequence of a third mammalian genome--that of the rat--suggests a need to rethink genome annotation. New mammalian sequences will not receive the kind of labor-intensive annotation efforts that are currently being devoted to human. In this paper, we demonstrate an alternative approach: reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and direct sequencing based on dual-genome de novo predictions from TWINSCAN. We tested 444 TWINSCAN-predicted rat genes that showed significant homology to known human genes implicated in disease but that were partially or completely missed by methods based on protein-to-genome mapping. Using primers in exons flanking a single predicted intron, we were able to verify the existence of 59% of these predicted genes. We then attempted to amplify the complete predicted open reading frames of 136 genes that were verified in the single-intron experiment. Spliced sequences were amplified in 46 cases (34%). We conclude that this procedure for elucidating gene structures with native cDNA sequences is cost-effective and will become even more so as it is further optimized.
Dynamic building of a BAC clone tiling path for the Rat Genome Sequencing Project.	CLONEPICKER is a software pipeline that integrates sequence data with BAC clone fingerprints to dynamically select a minimal overlapping clone set covering the whole genome. In the Rat Genome Sequencing Project (RGSP), a hybrid strategy of "clone by clone" and "whole genome shotgun" approaches was used to maximize the merits of both approaches. Like the "clone by clone" method, one key challenge for this strategy was to select a low-redundancy clone set that covered the whole genome while the sequencing is in progress. The CLONEPICKER pipeline met this challenge using restriction enzyme fingerprint data, BAC end sequence data, and sequences generated from individual BAC clones as well as WGS reads. In the RGSP, an average of 7.5 clones was identified from each side of a seed clone, and the minimal overlapping clones were reliably selected. Combined with the assembled BAC fingerprint map, a set of BAC clones that covered >97% of the genome was identified and used in the RGSP.
High-throughput gene discovery in the rat.	The rat is an important animal model for human diseases and is widely used in physiology. In this article we present a new strategy for gene discovery based on the production of ESTs from serially subtracted and normalized cDNA libraries, and we describe its application for the development of a comprehensive nonredundant collection of rat ESTs. Our new strategy appears to yield substantially more EST clusters per ESTs sequenced than do previous approaches that did not use serial subtraction. However, multiple rounds of library subtraction resulted in high frequencies of otherwise rare internally primed cDNAs, defining the limits of this powerful approach. To date, we have generated >200,000 3' ESTs from >100 cDNA libraries representing a wide range of tissues and developmental stages of the laboratory rat. Most importantly, we have contributed to approximately 50,000 rat UniGene clusters. We have identified, arrayed, and derived 5' ESTs from >30,000 unique rat cDNA clones. Complete information, including radiation hybrid mapping data, is also maintained locally at http://genome.uiowa.edu/clcg.html. All of the sequences described in this article have been submitted to the dbEST division of the NCBI.
Integration of the rat recombination and EST maps in the rat genomic sequence and comparative mapping analysis with the mouse genome.	Inbred strains of the laboratory rat are widely used for identifying genetic regions involved in the control of complex quantitative phenotypes of biomedical importance. The draft genomic sequence of the rat now provides essential information for annotating rat quantitative trait locus (QTL) maps. Following the survey of unique rat microsatellite (11,585 including 1648 new markers) and EST (10,067) markers currently available, we have incorporated a selection of 7952 rat EST sequences in an improved version of the integrated linkage-radiation hybrid map of the rat containing 2058 microsatellite markers which provided over 10,000 potential anchor points between rat QTL and the genomic sequence of the rat. A total of 996 genetic positions were resolved (avg. spacing 1.77 cM) in a single large intercross and anchored in the rat genomic sequence (avg. spacing 1.62 Mb). Comparative genome maps between rat and mouse were constructed by successful computational alignment of 6108 mapped rat ESTs in the mouse genome. The integration of rat linkage maps in the draft genomic sequence of the rat and that of other species represents an essential step for translating rat QTL intervals into human chromosomal targets.
Integrated and sequence-ordered BAC- and YAC-based physical maps for the rat genome.	As part of the effort to sequence the genome of Rattus norvegicus, we constructed a physical map comprised of fingerprinted bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones from the CHORI-230 BAC library. These BAC clones provide approximately 13-fold redundant coverage of the genome and have been assembled into 376 fingerprint contigs. A yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) map was also constructed and aligned with the BAC map via fingerprinted BAC and P1 artificial chromosome clones (PACs) sharing interspersed repetitive sequence markers with the YAC-based physical map. We have annotated 95% of the fingerprint map clones in contigs with coordinates on the version 3.1 rat genome sequence assembly, using BAC-end sequences and in silico mapping methods. These coordinates have allowed anchoring 358 of the 376 fingerprint map contigs onto the sequence assembly. Of these, 324 contigs are anchored to rat genome sequences localized to chromosomes, and 34 contigs are anchored to unlocalized portions of the rat sequence assembly. The remaining 18 contigs, containing 54 clones, still require placement. The fingerprint map is a high-resolution integrative data resource that provides genome-ordered associations among BAC, YAC, and PAC clones and the assembled sequence of the rat genome.
BAC resources for the rat genome project.	Two 11-fold redundant bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) libraries (RPCI-32 and CHORI-230) have been constructed to support the rat genome project. The first library was constructed using a male Brown Norway (BN/SsNHsd) rat as a DNA source long before plans for rat genome sequencing had been launched. The second library was prepared from a highly inbred female (BN/SsNHsd/MCW) rat in support of the rat genome sequencing project. The use of an inbred rat strain is essential to avoid problems with genome assembly resulting from the difficulty of distinguishing haplotype variation from variation among duplicons. We have demonstrated the suitability of the library by using a detailed quality assessment of large insert sizes, narrow size distribution, consistent redundancy for many markers, and long-range continuity of BAC contig maps. The widespread use of the two libraries as an integral part of the rat genome project has led to the database annotations for many clones, providing rat researchers with a rich resource of BAC clones that can be screened in silico for genes of interest.
Tubulin-based polymorphism (TBP): a new tool, based on functionally relevant sequences, to assess genetic diversity in plant species.	TBP (tubulin-based polymorphism) is a new molecular marker based tool that relies on the presence of intron-specific DNA polymorphisms of the plant beta-tubulin gene family. The multifunctional and essential role of the tubulin proteins is reflected in the conservation of regions within their primary amino acid sequence. The ubiquitous nature of this gene family can be exploited using primers that amplify the first intron of different beta-tubulin isotypes, revealing specific fingerprints. The method is rapid, simple, and reliable and does not require preliminary sequence information of the plant genome of interest. The ability of TBP to discriminate between accessions and species in oilseed rape, coffee, and lotus is shown. In all cases, TBP was able to detect specific genetic polymorphisms in the context of a simplified and readily appreciable pattern of DNA amplification. The application of TBP for assessing genetic diversity and genome origins in disseminated plant landraces rather than in highly inbred cultivated species is also discussed.
Mathematical models of diffusion-constrained polymerase chain reactions: basis of high-throughput nucleic acid assays and simple self-organizing systems.	DNA templates amplified by polymerase chain reaction in thin polyacrylamide gels form diffusion-constrained amplicons called "polonies" (polymerase colonies) that have been used to phase DNA haplotypes over long distances, to analyse RNA splice variants, and to assay other phenomena of biological interest. We present two sets of mathematical models, one for single polony growth (SPGM) and one for two polony interaction (TPIM), that will be used to optimize polony technology. The models provide detailed predictions of polony yield, concentration profiles, growth of isolated polonies, and the interaction of neighboring polonies. The TPIM explains an experimental observation that nearby polonies deform against each other rather than interpenetrate, an effect important for optimizing polony protocols. However, the TPIM also predicts that polonies may invade each other with a complex geometry when sufficiently close. Polonies are also of interest as simple abiotic systems that exhibit lifelike properties of self-organization, growth, and development, and the models may also apply to biological phenomena involving propagation through tethering and diffusion. Our polony modeling software is available at our web site.
Nucleic acid analysis using an expanded genetic alphabet to quench fluorescence.	Organic chemistry has made possible the synthesis of molecules that expand on Nature's genetic alphabet. Using the previously described nonstandard DNA base pair constructed from isoguanine and 5-methylisocytosine, we report a highly specific and sensitive method that allows for the fast and specific quantitation of genetic sequences in a closed tube format. During PCR amplification, enzymatic site-specific incorporation of a quencher covalently linked to isoguanine allows for the simultaneous detection and identification of multiple targets. The specificity of method is then established by analysis of thermal denaturation or melting of the amplicons. The appropriate functions of all reactions are further verified by incorporation of an independent target into the reaction mixture. We report that the method is sensitive down to the single copy level, and specificity is demonstrated by multiplexed end-point genotypic analysis of four targets simultaneously using four separate fluorescent reporters. The method is general enough for quantitative and qualitative analysis of both RNA and DNA using previously developed primer sets. Though the method described employs the commonly used PCR, the enzymatic incorporation of reporter groups into DNA site-specifically should find broad utility throughout molecular biology.
A novel method for diagnosis of adult hypolactasia by genotyping of the -13910 C/T polymorphism with Pyrosequencing technology.	The lactose-loading test and other functional tests that have been the most widely used clinically in the diagnosis of adult hypolactasia up to now are labour intensive and costly, and suffer from low sensitivity as well as low specificity. In addition, lactose-loading tests may be painful to the patient. Here, a new genotyping method for the diagnosis of adult hypolactasia is described. The method utilizes Pyrosequencing technology, which gives the DNA sequence around the recently identified C/T polymorphic site in the MCM6 gene. Among the advantages compared to the other genotyping methods published are less staff hands-on time than for example RFLP analyses, and the avoidance of radioactivity, as in the originally described isotope-minisequencing. Most importantly, Pyrosequencing, which is a direct DNA sequencing technique, gives unambiguous genotyping results as well as some redundant sequence information beyond the SNP position, which serves as a valuable internal control, obtained for each sample.
Mutations induced by ancient DNA extracts?	We have investigated whether some factor in ancient DNA extracts induces site-specific mutations in modern DNA. We find no evidence for higher mutation rates when extracts from three different Pleistocene mammals are added to modern DNA than when water or extraction blanks are added. We also fail to find evidence that any such factor affects ancient DNA sequences determined from the same extracts. This as well as the patterns of nucleotide substitutions seen in DNA sequences determined from hundreds of other specimens leads us to doubt that a previously unknown mutagenic factor can be a general feature of extracts from old tissues.
An assessment of accuracy, error, and conflict with support values from genome-scale phylogenetic data.	Despite the importance of molecular phylogenetics, few of its assumptions have been tested with real data. It is commonly assumed that nonparametric bootstrap values are an underestimate of the actual support, Bayesian posterior probabilities are an overestimate of the actual support, and among-gene phylogenetic conflict is low. We directly tested these assumptions by using a well-supported yeast reference tree. We found that bootstrap values were not significantly different from accuracy. Bayesian support values were, however, significant overestimates of accuracy but still had low false-positive error rates (0% to 2.8%) at the highest values (>99%). Although we found evidence for a branch-length bias contributing to conflict, there was little evidence for widespread, strongly supported among-gene conflict from bootstraps. The results demonstrate that caution is warranted concerning conclusions of conflict based on the assumption of underestimation for support values in real data.
IQPNNI: moving fast through tree space and stopping in time.	An efficient tree reconstruction method (IQPNNI) is introduced to reconstruct a phylogenetic tree based on DNA or amino acid sequence data. Our approach combines various fast algorithms to generate a list of potential candidate trees. The key ingredient is the definition of so-called important quartets (IQs), which allow the computation of an intermediate tree in O(n(2)) time for n sequences. The resulting tree is then further optimized by applying the nearest neighbor interchange (NNI) operation. Subsequently a random fraction of the sequences is deleted from the best tree found so far. The deleted sequences are then re-inserted in the smaller tree using the important quartet puzzling (IQP) algorithm. These steps are repeated several times and the best tree, with respect to the likelihood criterion, is considered as the inferred phylogenetic tree. Moreover, we suggest a rule which indicates when to stop the search. Simulations show that IQPNNI gives a slightly better accuracy than other programs tested. Moreover, we applied the approach to 218 small subunit rRNA sequences and 500 rbcL sequences. We found trees with higher likelihood compared to the results by others. A program to reconstruct DNA or amino acid based phylogenetic trees is available online (http://www.bi.uni-duesseldorf.de/software/iqpnni).
Homogeneous detection of unamplified genomic DNA sequences based on colorimetric scatter of gold nanoparticle probes.	Nucleic acid diagnostics is dominated by fluorescence-based assays that use complex and expensive enzyme-based target or signal-amplification procedures. Many clinical diagnostic applications will require simpler, inexpensive assays that can be done in a screening mode. We have developed a 'spot-and-read' colorimetric detection method for identifying nucleic acid sequences based on the distance-dependent optical properties of gold nanoparticles. In this assay, nucleic acid targets are recognized by DNA-modified gold probes, which undergo a color change that is visually detectable when the solutions are spotted onto an illuminated glass waveguide. This scatter-based method enables detection of zeptomole quantities of nucleic acid targets without target or signal amplification when coupled to an improved hybridization method that facilitates probe-target binding in a homogeneous format. In comparison to a previously reported absorbance-based method, this method increases detection sensitivity by over four orders of magnitude. We have applied this method to the rapid detection of mecA in methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus genomic DNA samples.
Coronavirus 3CLpro proteinase cleavage sites: possible relevance to SARS virus pathology.	Despite the passing of more than a year since the first outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), efficient counter-measures are still few and many believe that reappearance of SARS, or a similar disease caused by a coronavirus, is not unlikely. For other virus families like the picornaviruses it is known that pathology is related to proteolytic cleavage of host proteins by viral proteinases. Furthermore, several studies indicate that virus proliferation can be arrested using specific proteinase inhibitors supporting the belief that proteinases are indeed important during infection. Prompted by this, we set out to analyse and predict cleavage by the coronavirus main proteinase using computational methods.
Cloning and functional characterisation of avian transcription factor E2A.	During B lymphocyte development the E2A gene is a critical regulator of cell proliferation and differentiation. With regards to the immunoglobulin genes the E2A proteins contribute to the regulation of gene rearrangement, expression and class switch recombination. We are now using the chicken cell line DT40 as a model system to further analyse the function of E2A.
Evolution of somatic mutations in mammary tumors in transgenic mice is influenced by the inherited genotype.	MMTV-Wnt1 transgenic mice develop mammary hyperplasia early in development, followed by the appearance of solitary mammary tumors with a high proportion of cells expressing early lineage markers and many myoepithelial cells. The occurrence of tumors is accelerated in experiments that activate FGF proto-oncogenes or remove the tumor suppressor genes Pten or P53, implying that secondary oncogenic events are required for progression from mammary hyperplasia to carcinoma. It is not known, however, which oncogenic pathways contribute to Wnt1-induced tumorigenesis - further experimental manipulation of these mice is needed. Secondary events also appear to be required for mammary tumorigenesis in MMTV-Neu transgenic mice because the transgene in the tumors usually contains an acquired mutation that activates the Neu protein-tyrosine kinase.
Breakpoint identification and smoothing of array comparative genomic hybridization data.	We describe a tool, called aCGH-Smooth, for the automated identification of breakpoints and smoothing of microarray comparative genomic hybridization (array CGH) data. aCGH-Smooth is written in visual C++, has a user-friendly interface including a visualization of the results and user-defined parameters adapting the performance of data smoothing and breakpoint recognition. aCGH-Smooth can handle array-CGH data generated by all array-CGH platforms: BAC, PAC, cosmid, cDNA and oligo CGH arrays. The tool has been successfully applied to real-life data.
A comparison of methods for estimating the transition:transversion ratio from DNA sequences.	Estimation of the ratio of the rates of transitions to transversions (TI:TV ratio) for a collection of aligned nucleotide sequences is important because it provides insight into the process of molecular evolution and because such estimates may be used to further model the evolutionary process for the sequences under consideration. In this paper, we compare several methods for estimating the TI:TV ratio, including the pairwise method [TREE 11 (1996) 158], a modification of the pairwise method due to Ina [J. Mol. Evol. 46 (1998) 521], a method based on parsimony (TREE 11 (1996) 158), a method due to Purvis and Bromham [J. Mol. Evol. 44 (1997) 112] that uses phylogenetically independent pairs of sequences, the maximum likelihood method, and a Bayesian method [Bioinformatics 17 (2001) 754]. We examine the performance of each estimator under several conditions using both simulated and real data.
A mathematical model of the Pyrosequencing reaction system.	The Pyrosequencing technology is a newly developed DNA sequencing method that monitors DNA nucleotide incorporation in real-time. A set of coupled enzymatic reactions, together with bioluminescence, detects incorporated nucleotides in the form of light pulses, yielding a characteristic light profile. In this study, a biochemical model of the Pyrosequencing reaction system is suggested and implemented. The model is constructed utilizing an assumption of irreversible Michaelis-Menten rate equations and a constant incorporation efficiency. The kinetic parameters are studied and values are chosen to obtain as reliable simulation results as possible. The results presented here show strong resemblance with real experiments. The model is able to capture the dynamics of a single light pulse with great accuracy, as well as the overall characteristics of a whole pyrogram trade mark. The plus- and minus-shift effects observed in experiments are successfully reconstructed by two constant efficiency factors. Furthermore, pulse broadening can partly be explained by apyrase inhibition and successive dilution.
HAPLORE: a program for haplotype reconstruction in general pedigrees without recombination.	Haplotype reconstruction is an essential step in genetic linkage and association studies. Although many methods have been developed to estimate haplotype frequencies and reconstruct haplotypes for a sample of unrelated individuals, haplotype reconstruction in large pedigrees with a large number of genetic markers remains a challenging problem.
Regional and time-resolved mutation patterns of the human genome.	Substantial regional variations of substitutional processes have recently been reported from human/mouse comparisons. However, several features including the C + G dependence and the CpG-based transition effect remain obscure.
Recognition of multiple patterns in unaligned sets of sequences: comparison of kernel clustering method with other methods.	Transcription factor binding sites often differ significantly in their primary sequence and can hardly be aligned. Often one set of sites can contain several subsets of sequences that follow not just one but several different patterns. There is a need for sensitive methods to reveal multiple patterns in unaligned sets of sequences.
Genetic variation in coding regions between and within commonly used inbred rat strains.	Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are the most common genetic variation in mammalian populations. Their significance is illustrated by their potential contribution to common disease but also by their potential for use in genetic association and mapping experiments. We have examined the genetic variation between commonly used inbred rat strains by using an efficient SNP discovery and typing assay based on enzyme-based (CEL I) heteroduplex cleavage. Screening of a panel of 96 different rat (sub-)strains for 100 genomic loci in 55 genes, whose human homologs are implicated in clinically relevant diseases like neurological disorder, cancer, schizophrenia, and obesity, resulted in the identification of 103 novel polymorphisms. As all strains are simultaneously genotyped in this setup, this allowed us to make an estimate of the genetic variation between and within commonly used rat inbred strains. Interestingly, we observed substantial genetic variation between colonies of the same inbred strain, maintained at different locations. Furthermore, we identified 17 non-synonymous SNPs that may have an effect on protein function and contribute to phenotypic differences between different laboratory strains.
Recovery of a function involving gene duplication by retroposition in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The duplication of DNA sequences contributes to genomic plasticity and is known to be one of the key factors responsible for evolution. The mechanisms underlying these rare events, which have been frequently mentioned by authors performing genomic analysis, have not yet been completely elucidated. These mechanisms were approached here in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, using a positive selection screen based on a particular mutated allele of the URA2 gene. Spontaneous revertants containing a duplication of the terminal part of the URA2 gene were selected and analyzed. Some important features of the duplicated regions, such as their chromosome location, size, and insertion sites, were characterized. The events selected correspond to a single inter- or intrachromosomal gene duplication process. The duplicated ATCase sequence is generally punctuated by a poly(A) tract and is always located in Ty1 sequences. In addition, the activation of a Ty1 transcription process increased the frequency of the duplication events. All in all, these data suggest that the duplication mechanism involves the reverse transcription of mRNA and the subsequent integration of the cDNA into a Ty1 area. The Ty1 elements and the retrotransposon-encoded function are key factors contributing to chromosomal reshaping. The genomic rearrangements described constitute experimental evidence for the recovery of a function involving duplication by retroposition.
Virus PCR assay panels: an alternative to the mouse antibody production test.	Antibody production tests have traditionally been used to test biological materials for viral contamination. Now molecular biology techniques have emerged as an alternative. The authors compare MAP testing with PCR-based detection methods, focusing on differences in animal use, laboratory requirements, sample size, and limits of detection.
Analysis of alternative splicing with microarrays: successes and challenges.	Recently, DNA microarrays have emerged as potentially powerful tools for analyzing alternative splicing. We briefly review the latest results in this field and highlight the current challenges that they have revealed.
Detecting DNA regulatory motifs by incorporating positional trends in information content.	On the basis of the observation that conserved positions in transcription factor binding sites are often clustered together, we propose a simple extension to the model-based motif discovery methods. We assign position-specific prior distributions to the frequency parameters of the model, penalizing deviations from a specified conservation profile. Examples with both simulated and real data show that this extension helps discover motifs as the data become noisier or when there is a competing false motif.
Initiation sites for human DNA replication at a putative ribulose-5-phosphate 3-epimerase gene.	Replication of the human genome requires the activation of thousands of replicons distributed along each one of the chromosomes. Each replicon contains an initiation, or origin, site, at which DNA synthesis begins. However, very little information is known about the nature and positioning of these initiation sites along human chromosomes. We have recently focused our attention to a 1.1 kb region of human chromosome 2 which functioned as an episomal origin in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. This region corresponded to the largest exon of a putative ribulose-5-phosphate-3-epimerase gene (RPE). In the present study we have used a real-time PCR-based nascent strand DNA abundance assay to map initiation sites for DNA replication in in vivo human chromosomes around a 13.4 kb region encompassing the putative RPE gene. By applying this analysis to a 1-1.4 kb nascent strand DNA fraction isolated from both normal skin fibroblasts, and the breast cell line MCF10; we have identified five initiation sites within the 13.4 kb region of chromosome 2. The initiation sites appear to map to similar positions in both cell lines and occur outside the coding regions of the putative RPE gene.
Mucopolysaccharidosis IVA (Morquio A): identification of novel common mutations in the N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfate sulfatase (GALNS) gene in Italian patients.	Mucopolysaccharidosis IVA (MPS IVA) is a lysosomal storage disorder caused by the deficiency of N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfate sulfatase (GALNS). Mutation screening of the GALNS gene was performed by RT-PCR with one amplicon and direct sequence analyses using cDNA samples from 15 Italian MPS IVA patients. Each mutation was confirmed at the genomic level. In this study, 13 different gene mutations with four common mutations (over 10% of mutant alleles) were identified in 12 severe and three milder (attenuated) MPS IVA patients. The gene alterations in 12 out of 13 were found to be point mutations and only one mutation was deletion. Ten of 13 mutations were novel. The c.1070C>T (p.Pro357Leu) mutation coexisted with c.1156C>T (p.Arg386Cys) mutation on the same allele. Together they accounted for 100% of the 30 disease alleles of the patients investigated. Four common mutations accounted for 70% of mutant alleles investigated. Urine keratan sulfate (KS) concentrations were elevated in all patients investigated. These data provide further evidence for extensive allelic heterogeneity and importance of relation among genotype, phenotype, and urine KS excretion as a biomarker in MPS IVA.
Unzipping of DNA with correlated base sequence.	We consider force-induced unzipping transition for a heterogeneous DNA model with a correlated base sequence. Both finite-range and long-range correlated situations are considered. It is shown that finite-range correlations increase stability of DNA with respect to the external unzipping force. Due to long-range correlations the number of unzipped base pairs displays two widely different scenarios depending on the details of the base sequence: either there is no unzipping phase transition at all, or the transition is realized via a sequence of jumps with magnitude comparable to the size of the system. Both scenarios are different from the behavior of the average number of unzipped base pairs (non-self-averaging). The results can be relevant for explaining the biological purpose of correlated structures in DNA.
Chain persistency in single-stranded DNA.	We develop a theoretical approach to hairpin-loop formation of single-stranded (ss) DNA by treating the strand as a two-state system in which bases are either "stacked" or "unstacked." The looping kinetics of ssDNA is shown to be intrinsically different from that of a wormlike chain; it is mainly controlled by stacking-breakage probability, not by the mean curvature of loops, and highly sensitive to the composition of the loop as seen in recent experiments. Our estimate of a stacking energy for poly ( dA ), -3.9 kcal/mol, is consistent with known results.
Semiconservative replication in the quasispecies model.	This paper extends Eigen's quasispecies equations to account for the semiconservative nature of DNA replication. We solve the equations in the limit of infinite sequence length for the simplest case of a static, sharply peaked fitness landscape. We show that the error catastrophe occurs when micro, the product of sequence length and per base pair mismatch probability, exceeds 2 ln [2/ ( 1+1/k ) ], where k>1 is the first-order growth rate constant of the viable "master" sequence (with all other sequences having a first-order growth rate constant of 1 ). This is in contrast to the result of ln k for conservative replication. In particular, as k--> infinity, the error catastrophe is never reached for conservative replication, while for semiconservative replication the critical micro approaches 2 ln 2. Semiconservative replication is therefore considerably less robust than conservative replication to the effect of replication errors. We also show that the mean equilibrium fitness of a semiconservatively replicating system is given by k ( 2 e(-micro/2) -1 ) below the error catastrophe, in contrast to the standard result of k e(-micro) for conservative replication (derived by Kimura and Maruyama in 1966). From this result it is readily shown that semiconservative replication is necessary to account for the observation that, at sufficiently high mutagen concentrations, faster replicating cells will die more quickly than more slowly replicating cells. Thus, in contrast to Eigen's original model, the semiconservative quasispecies equations are able to provide a mathematical basis for explaining the efficacy of mutagens as chemotherapeutic agents.
Silence of the centromeres--not.	Centromeres are a conundrum; although many proteins associated with centomeres are conserved from yeast to humans, the underlying DNA sequence is not. A proposed solution to this problem is that an epigenetic, largely heterochromatic, state be imposed by these proteins. Recent analysis of a human neocentromere and the complete sequence of a rice centromere suggest that this epigenetic state can enable transcription of at least some genes within a centromere.
Is confidence in the monitoring of GE foods justified?	Often the limits of detection of genetically engineered organisms (GEOs, LMOs, GMOs) determine what legislation sets as thresholds of allowable contamination of the human food chain with GEOs. Many countries have legislation that is triggered by certain thresholds of contamination. Importantly, international trade in food and animal feed is becoming increasingly vulnerable to interruptions caused by the ambiguity GEOs can create when shipments are monitored at the border. We examine the tools available for detection. Four key error-generating stages are identified with the aim of prompting a higher uniform standard of routine analysis at export and import points. Contamination of the New Zealand corn crop with GEOs is used as a case study for the application of monitoring tools and vulnerability to errors. These tools fail to meet emerging food safety requirements, but some improvements are in development.
Codon bias and heterologous protein expression.	The expression of functional proteins in heterologous hosts is a cornerstone of modern biotechnology. Unfortunately, proteins are often difficult to express outside their original context. They might contain codons that are rarely used in the desired host, come from organisms that use non-canonical code or contain expression-limiting regulatory elements within their coding sequence. Improvements in the speed and cost of gene synthesis have facilitated the complete redesign of entire gene sequences to maximize the likelihood of high protein expression. Redesign strategies are discussed here, including modification of translation initiation regions, alteration of mRNA structural elements and use of different codon biases.
Analysis of genetic relationships among Rosa damascena plants grown in Turkey by using AFLP and microsatellite markers.	Rosa damascena Mill. is the most important rose species for rose oil production. The main rose oil producers in the world are Turkey and Bulgaria and they obtain the rose oil almost exclusively from R. damascena. In spite of coming from the same original populations, R. damascena plants grown in Turkey show some morphological differences. In this study, it was aimed to investigate the genetic relationships among R. damascena plants grown in Turkey by using microsatellite and AFLP markers. Twenty three AFLP and nine microsatellite primer pairs were used for this aim. No polymorphism could be detected among the plants, as the marker patterns obtained from different plants are identical. The conclusion from these data is that all R. damascena plants under study are derived from the same original genotype by vegetative propagation. Furthermore, the observed morphological differences originate from point mutations not detectable by molecular markers. Therefore, they are equivalent to sport mutations frequently observed in cut and garden rose varieties.
DNMAD: web-based diagnosis and normalization for microarray data.	We present a web server for Diagnosis and Normalization of MicroArray Data (DNMAD). DNMAD includes several common data transformations such as spatial and global robust local regression or multiple slide normalization, and allows for detecting several kinds of errors that result from the manipulation and the image analysis of the arrays. This tool offers a user-friendly interface, and is completely integrated within the Gene Expression Pattern Analysis Suite (GEPAS).
DAGchainer: a tool for mining segmental genome duplications and synteny.	Given the positions of protein-coding genes along genomic sequence and probability values for protein alignments between genes, DAGchainer identifies chains of gene pairs sharing conserved order between genomic regions, by identifying paths through a directed acyclic graph (DAG). These chains of collinear gene pairs can represent segmentally duplicated regions and genes within a single genome or syntenic regions between related genomes. Automated mining of the Arabidopsis genome for segmental duplications illustrates the use of DAGchainer.
DNA structure constraint is probably a fundamental factor inducing CpG deficiency in bacteria.	It has been speculated that CpG dinucleotide deficiency in genomes is a consequence of DNA methylation. However, this hypothesis does not adequately explain CpG deficiency in bacteria. The hypothesis based on DNA structure constraint as an alternative explanation was therefore examined.
Accuracy improvement for identifying translation initiation sites in microbial genomes.	At present the computational gene identification methods in microbial genomes have a high prediction accuracy of verified translation termination site (3' end), but a much lower accuracy of the translation initiation site (TIS, 5' end). The latter is important to the analysis and the understanding of the putative protein of a gene and the regulatory machinery of the translation. Improving the accuracy of prediction of TIS is one of the remaining open problems.
Ultrasensitive detection of DNA sequences in solution by specific enzymatic labeling.	We present a newly developed technique for the direct detection of very low concentrations of specific nucleic acid sequences in homogeneous solution based on a polymerase extension reaction. This method consists of synthesizing a highly fluorescent nucleic acid reporter molecule using a sequence of the target as a template. Synthesis of the reporter molecule is accomplished by hybridizing a short complementary oligonucleotide primer to the target and extending the reporter using a polymerase and free nucleotides. One of these nucleotides is partially labeled with a fluorophore. The reaction sample is then flowed through the capillary cell of a single molecule detector. Detection of the reporter signifies the presence of the target being sought. Under carefully selected conditions, fluorescence from the reporter molecule is much stronger than that of the free nucleotide background over the detection time. We have derived practical equations that allow us to determine an optimal range of values for the relative reporter and free-nucleotide concentrations. This method allows for the rapid, direct detection of individual targets at femtomolar concentrations without the use of an amplification procedure, such as the polymerase chain reaction.
CBS Genome Atlas Database: a dynamic storage for bioinformatic results and sequence data.	Currently, new bacterial genomes are being published on a monthly basis. With the growing amount of genome sequence data, there is a demand for a flexible and easy-to-maintain structure for storing sequence data and results from bioinformatic analysis. More than 150 sequenced bacterial genomes are now available, and comparisons of properties for taxonomically similar organisms are not readily available to many biologists. In addition to the most basic information, such as AT content, chromosome length, tRNA count and rRNA count, a large number of more complex calculations are needed to perform detailed comparative genomics. DNA structural calculations like curvature and stacking energy, DNA compositions like base skews, oligo skews and repeats at the local and global level are just a few of the analysis that are presented on the CBS Genome Atlas Web page. Complex analysis, changing methods and frequent addition of new models are factors that require a dynamic database layout. Using basic tools like the GNU Make system, csh, Perl and MySQL, we have created a flexible database environment for storing and maintaining such results for a collection of complete microbial genomes. Currently, these results counts to more than 220 pieces of information. The backbone of this solution consists of a program package written in Perl, which enables administrators to synchronize and update the database content. The MySQL database has been connected to the CBS web-server via PHP4, to present a dynamic web content for users outside the center. This solution is tightly fitted to existing server infrastructure and the solutions proposed here can perhaps serve as a template for other research groups to solve database issues.
Limited agreement among three global gene expression methods highlights the requirement for non-global validation.	DNA microarrays have revolutionized biological research, but their reliability and accuracy have not been extensively evaluated. Thorough testing of microarrays through comparison to dissimilar gene expression methods is necessary in order to determine their accuracy.
DNAfan: a software tool for automated extraction and analysis of user-defined sequence regions.	DNAfan (DNA Feature ANalyzer) is a tool combining sequence-filtering and pattern searching. DNAfan automatically extracts user-defined sets of sequence fragments from large sequence sets. Fragments are defined by annotated gene feature keys and co- or non-occurring patterns within the feature or close to it. A gene feature parser and a pattern-based filter tool localizes and extracts the specific subset of sequences. The selected sequence data can subsequently be retrieved for analyses or further processed with DNAfan to find the occurrence of specific patterns or structural motifs. DNAfan is a powerful tool for pattern analysis. Its filter features restricts the pattern search to a well-defined set of sequences, allowing drastic reduction in false positive hits.
GenePicker: replicate analysis of Affymetrix gene expression microarrays.	GenePicker allows efficient analysis of Affymetrix gene expression data performed in replicate, through definition of analysis schemes, data normalization, t-test/ANOVA, Change-Fold Change-analysis and yields lists of differentially expressed genes with high confidence. Comparison of noise and signal analysis schemes allows determining a signal-to-noise ratio in a given experiment. Change Call, Fold Change and Signal mean ratios are used in the analysis. While each parameter alone yields gene lists that contain up to 30% false positives, the combination of these parameters nearly eliminates the false positives as verified by northern blotting, quantitative PCR in numerous independent experiments as well as by the analysis of spike-in data.
CRH_Server: an online comparative and radiation hybrid mapping server for the canine genome.	CRH_Server is an on line Comparative and Radiation Hybrid mapping Server dedicated to canine genomics. CRH_Server allows users to compute their own RH data using the current canine RH map, and allows comparative dog/human mapping analyses. Finally, it suggests multiple options for storage and queries of the dog RH database.
A software program combining sequence motif searches with keywords for finding repeats containing DNA sequences.	One of the most interesting features of genomes (both coding and non-coding regions) is the presence of relatively short tandemly repeated DNA sequences known as tandem repeats (TRs). We developed a new PC-based stand-alone software analysis program, combining sequence motif searches with keywords such as organs, tissues, cell lines or development stages for finding exact, inexact and compound, TRs. Tandem Repeats Analyzer 1.5 (TRA) has several advanced repeat search parameters/options over other repeat finder programs as it does not only accept GenBank, FASTA and expressed sequence tag (EST) sequence files but also does analysis of multifiles with multisequences. Advanced user-defined parameters/options let the researchers use different motif lengths search criteria for varying motif lengths simultaneously. The outputs show statistical results to be evaluated by the user. The discovery of TRs in ESTs could be useful for both gene mapping and association studies and discovering TRs located in coding regions of important genes that are expressed under various conditions of environment, stress, organ, tissue and development stage.
Interactive gene-order comparison for multiple small genomes.	The Genome Organization Analysis Tool (GOAT) is a program that performs comparative sequence analysis on ordered gene lists from annotated genomes, provides visual and tabular output, and provides means of accessing and analyzing related gene sequence data, for the purpose of comparing genome organization at the gene-order level. GOAT can be used to compare any two or more genomes or chromosomes on demand, or configured to provide access to precomputed comparisons of a specific group of genome sequences.
A graph-theoretic approach to testing associations between disparate sources of functional genomics data.	The last few years have seen the advent of high-throughput technologies to analyze various properties of the transcriptome and proteome of several organisms. The congruency of these different data sources, or lack thereof, can shed light on the mechanisms that govern cellular function. A central challenge for bioinformatics research is to develop a unified framework for combining the multiple sources of functional genomics information and testing associations between them, thus obtaining a robust and integrated view of the underlying biology.
EC_oligos: automated and whole-genome primer design for exons within one or between two genomes.	EC_oligos designs oligonucleotides (oligos) from exons of annotated genomic sequence information. It can automatically and rapidly select oligos that are conserved between two sets of sequence data, and can pair up oligos for use as PCR primers. It can do this on a whole-genome scale and according to user-defined criteria.
Microarray Data Analysis Toolbox (MDAT): for normalization, adjustment and analysis of gene expression data.	We introduce a novel Matlab toolbox for microarray data analysis. This toolbox uses normalization based upon a normally distributed background and differential gene expression based on five statistical measures. The objects in this toolbox are open source and can be implemented to suit your application.
A probabilistic measure for alignment-free sequence comparison.	Alignment-free sequence comparison methods are still in the early stages of development compared to those of alignment-based sequence analysis. In this paper, we introduce a probabilistic measure of similarity between two biological sequences without alignment. The method is based on the concept of comparing the similarity/dissimilarity between two constructed Markov models.
ORFcurator: molecular curation of genes and gene clusters in prokaryotic organisms.	The ability to detect clusters of functionally related genes in multiple microbial genomes has enormous potential for enhancing studies on gene function and microbial evolution. The staggering amount of new genome sequence data presents a largely untapped resource for gene cluster discovery. To date, gene cluster analysis has not been fully automated, and one must rely on manual, tedious and time-consuming manipulation of sequences. To facilitate accurate and rapid identification of conserved gene clusters, we developed a database-driven web application, called ORFcurator. We used ORFcurator to find clusters containing any genes similar to those of the 14-gene Widespread Colonization Island of Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans. From 126 genomes, ORFcurator identified all 73 clusters previously determined by manual searching.
Primer design and marker clustering for multiplex SNP-IT primer extension genotyping assay using statistical modeling.	The optimization of the primer design is critical for the development of high-throughput SNP genotyping methods. Recently developed statistical models of the SNP-IT primer extension genotyping reaction allow further improvement of primer quality for the assay.
DNAFSMiner: a web-based software toolbox to recognize two types of functional sites in DNA sequences.	DNAFSMiner (DNA Functional Sites Miner) is a web-based software toolbox to recognize functional sites in nucleic acid sequences. Currently in this toolbox, we provide two software: TIS Miner and Poly(A) Signal Miner. The TIS Miner can be used to predict translation initiation sites in vertebrate DNA/mRNA/cDNA sequences, and the Poly(A) Signal Miner can be used to predict polyadenylation [poly(A)] signals in human DNA sequences. The prediction results are better than those by literature methods on two benchmark applications. This good performance is mainly attributable to our unique learning method. DNAFSMiner is available free of charge for academic and non-profit organizations.
Comparative analysis of methods for representing and searching for transcription factor binding sites.	An important step in unravelling the transcriptional regulatory network of an organism is to identify, for each transcription factor, all of its DNA binding sites. Several approaches are commonly used in searching for a transcription factor's binding sites, including consensus sequences and position-specific scoring matrices. In addition, methods that compute the average number of nucleotide matches between a putative site and all known sites can be employed. Such basic approaches can all be naturally extended by incorporating pairwise nucleotide dependencies and per-position information content. In this paper, we evaluate the effectiveness of these basic approaches and their extensions in finding binding sites for a transcription factor of interest without erroneously identifying other genomic sequences.
Training HMM structure with genetic algorithm for biological sequence analysis.	Hidden Markov models (HMMs) are widely used for biological sequence analysis because of their ability to incorporate biological information in their structure. An automatic means of optimizing the structure of HMMs would be highly desirable. However, this raises two important issues; first, the new HMMs should be biologically interpretable, and second, we need to control the complexity of the HMM so that it has good generalization performance on unseen sequences. In this paper, we explore the possibility of using a genetic algorithm (GA) for optimizing the HMM structure. GAs are sufficiently flexible to allow incorporation of other techniques such as Baum-Welch training within their evolutionary cycle. Furthermore, operators that alter the structure of HMMs can be designed to favour interpretable and simple structures. In this paper, a training strategy using GAs is proposed, and it is tested on finding HMM structures for the promoter and coding region of the bacterium Campylobacter jejuni. The proposed GA for hidden Markov models (GA-HMM) allows, HMMs with different numbers of states to evolve. To prevent over-fitting, a separate dataset is used for comparing the performance of the HMMs to that used for the Baum-Welch training. The GA-HMM was capable of finding an HMM comparable to a hand-coded HMM designed for the same task, which has been published previously.
Haploview: analysis and visualization of LD and haplotype maps.	Research over the last few years has revealed significant haplotype structure in the human genome. The characterization of these patterns, particularly in the context of medical genetic association studies, is becoming a routine research activity. Haploview is a software package that provides computation of linkage disequilibrium statistics and population haplotype patterns from primary genotype data in a visually appealing and interactive interface.
How many samples are needed to build a classifier: a general sequential approach.	The standard paradigm for a classifier design is to obtain a sample of feature-label pairs and then to apply a classification rule to derive a classifier from the sample data. Typically in laboratory situations the sample size is limited by cost, time or availability of sample material. Thus, an investigator may wish to consider a sequential approach in which there is a sufficient number of patients to train a classifier in order to make a sound decision for diagnosis while at the same time keeping the number of patients as small as possible to make the studies affordable.
SNP Chart: an integrated platform for visualization and interpretation of microarray genotyping data.	SNP Chart is a Java application for the visualization and interpretation of microarray genotyping data primarily derived from arrayed primer extension-based chemistries. Spot intensity output files from microarray analysis tools are imported into SNP Chart, together with a multi-channel TIFF image of the original array experiment and a list of the actual single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) being tested. Data from different and/or replicate probes that interrogate the same SNP, but that are scattered across the array grid, can be reassembled into a single chart format, specific for the SNP. This allows a quick and very effective 'visualization'/'quality control' of the data from multiple probes for the same SNP that can be easily interpreted and manually scored as a genotype.
A rapid method for computationally inferring transcriptome coverage and microarray sensitivity.	There are many different gene expression technologies, including cDNA and oligo-based microarrays, SAGE and MPSS. For each organism of interest, coverage of the transcriptome and the genome will be different. We address the question of what level of coverage is required to exploit the sensitivity of the different technologies, and what is the sensitivity of the different approaches in the experimental study.
BlastAlign: a program that uses blast to align problematic nucleotide sequences.	BlastAlign uses NCBI blastn to build a multiple nucleotide alignment and is intended for use with sequences that have large indels or are otherwise difficult to align globally. The program builds a matrix representing regions of homology along the sequences, from which it selects the 'most representative' sequence and then extracts the blastn query-anchored multiple alignment for this sequence. The matrix is printed and allows subgroups to be identified visually and an option allows other sequences to be used as the 'most representative'. The program contains elements of both Perl and Python and will run on UNIX (including Mac OSX) and DOS. An additional Perl program BlastAlignP uses tblastn to align nucleotide sequences to a single amino acid sequence, thus allowing an open reading frame to be maintained in the resulting multiple alignment.
MCQTL: multi-allelic QTL mapping in multi-cross design.	The aim of the MCQTL software package is to perform QTL mapping in multi-cross designs. It allows the analysis of the usual populations derived from inbred lines and can link the families by assuming that the QTL locations are the same in all of them. Moreover, a diallel modelling of the QTL genotypic effects is allowed in multiple related families. The implemented model is a linear regression model. A composite interval mapping and an iterative QTL mapping are implemented to deal with multiple QTL models. Marker cofactor selections by forward or backward stepwise methods are implemented as well as computation of threshold test value by permutation.
HapBlock: haplotype block partitioning and tag SNP selection software using a set of dynamic programming algorithms.	Recent studies have revealed that linkage disequilibrium (LD) patterns vary across the human genome with some regions of high LD interspersed with regions of low LD. Such LD patterns make it possible to select a set of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNPs; tag SNPs) for genome-wide association studies. We have developed a suite of computer programs to analyze the block-like LD patterns and to select the corresponding tag SNPs. Compared to other programs for haplotype block partitioning and tag SNP selection, our program has several notable features. First, the dynamic programming algorithms implemented are guaranteed to find the block partition with minimum number of tag SNPs for the given criteria of blocks and tag SNPs. Second, both haplotype data and genotype data from unrelated individuals and/or from general pedigrees can be analyzed. Third, several existing measures/criteria for haplotype block partitioning and tag SNP selection have been implemented in the program. Finally, the programs provide flexibility to include specific SNPs (e.g. non-synonymous SNPs) as tag SNPs.
RAP: a new computer program for de novo identification of repeated sequences in whole genomes.	DNA repeats are a common feature of most genomic sequences. Their de novo identification is still difficult despite being a crucial step in genomic analysis and oligonucleotides design. Several efficient algorithms based on word counting are available, but too short words decrease specificity while long words decrease sensitivity, particularly in degenerated repeats.
ESTminer: a Web interface for mining EST contig and cluster databases.	ESTminer is a Web application and database schema for interactive mining of expressed sequence tag (EST) contig and cluster datasets. The Web interface contains a query frame that allows the selection of contigs/clusters with specific cDNA library makeup or a threshold number of members. The results are displayed as color-coded tree nodes, where the color indicates the fractional size of each cDNA library component. The nodes are expandable, revealing library statistics as well as EST or contig members, with links to sequence data, GenBank records or user configurable links. Also, the interface allows 'queries within queries' where the result set of a query is further filtered by the subsequent query.
SNPP: automating large-scale SNP genotype data management.	To manage high-throughput single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) genotyping data efficiently, we developed a dynamic general database management system-SNPP (SNP Processor). It provides several functions, including data importing with comparison, Mendelian inheritance check within pedigrees, data compiling and exporting. Furthermore, SNPP may generate files for repeat genotyping and transform them into files that can be executed by a liquid handling system.
RDP2: recombination detection and analysis from sequence alignments.	RDP2 is a Windows 95/XP program that examines nucleotide sequence alignments and attempts to identify recombinant sequences and recombination breakpoints using 10 published recombination detection methods, including GENECONV, BOOTSCAN, MAXIMUM chi(2), CHIMAERA and SISTER SCANNING. The program enables fast automated analysis of large alignments (up to 300 sequences containing 13 000 sites), and interactive exploration, management and verification of results with different recombination detection and tree drawing methods.
Analysis of array CGH data: from signal ratio to gain and loss of DNA regions.	Genomic DNA regions are frequently lost or gained during tumor progression. Array Comparative Genomic Hybridization (array CGH) technology makes it possible to assess these changes in DNA in cancers, by comparison with a normal reference. The identification of systematically deleted or amplified genomic regions in a set of tumors enables biologists to identify genes involved in cancer progression because tumor suppressor genes are thought to be located in lost genomic regions and oncogenes, in gained regions. Array CGH profiles should also improve the classification of tumors. The achievement of these goals requires a methodology for detecting the breakpoints delimiting altered regions in genomic patterns and assigning a status (normal, gained or lost) to each chromosomal region.
Stepwise detection of recombination breakpoints in sequence alignments.	We propose a stepwise approach to identify recombination breakpoints in a sequence alignment. The approach can be applied to any recombination detection method that uses a permutation test and provides estimates of breakpoints.
A novel family with an unusual early-onset generalized dystonia.	We report on an Italian family in which three brothers and their maternal grandfather had a generalized early-onset dystonia with mild parkinsonian signs. Genetic testing excluded the rapid-onset dystonia-parkinsonism locus (DYT12; OMIM*128235), autosomal recessive Parkin locus (PARK2; OMIM *602544), and DYT1 dystonia. Three affected siblings were found to share an identical haplotype at the X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism locus (XDP; Lubag; OMIM*314250). This haplotype differed from the haplotype observed in Filipino patients, ruling out the hypothesis of a common underlying mutation. In addition, direct sequencing analysis of the putative disease causing changes observed in Filipino patients were not found in the Italian patients. The condition we describe could be a newly recognized dystonia syndrome with parkinsonism.
CIS: compound importance sampling method for protein-DNA binding site p-value estimation.	A key aspect of transcriptional regulation is the binding of transcription factors to sequence-specific binding sites that allow them to modulate the expression of nearby genes. Given models of such binding sites, one can scan regulatory regions for putative binding sites and construct a genome-wide regulatory network. In such genome-wide scans, it is crucial to control the amount of false positive predictions. Recently, several works demonstrated the benefits of modeling dependencies between positions within the binding site. Yet, computing the statistical significance of putative binding sites in this scenario remains a challenge.
Improving promoter prediction for the NNPP2.2 algorithm: a case study using Escherichia coli DNA sequences.	Although a great deal of research has been undertaken in the area of promoter prediction, prediction techniques are still not fully developed. Many algorithms tend to exhibit poor specificity, generating many false positives, or poor sensitivity. The neural network prediction program NNPP2.2 is one such example.
Dysfunction of the brain calcium channel CaV2.1 in absence epilepsy and episodic ataxia.	The molecular basis of idiopathic generalized epilepsy remains poorly understood. Absence epilepsy with 3 Hz spike-wave EEG is one of the most common human epilepsies, and is associated with significant morbidity. Several spontaneously occurring genetic mouse models of absence epilepsy are caused by dysfunction of the P/Q-type voltage-gated calcium channel CaV2.1. Such mice exhibit a primary generalized spike-wave EEG, with frequencies in the range of 5-7 Hz, often associated with ataxia, evidence of cerebellar degeneration and abnormal posturing. Previously, we identified a single case of severe primary generalized epilepsy with ataxia associated with CaV2.1 dysfunction, suggesting a possible link between this channel and human absence epilepsy. We now report a family in which absence epilepsy segregates in an autosomal dominant fashion through three generations. Five members exhibit a combination of absence epilepsy (with 3 Hz spike-wave) and cerebellar ataxia. In patients with the absence epilepsy/ataxia phenotype, genetic marker analysis was consistent with linkage to the CACNA1A gene on chromosome 19, which encodes the main pore-forming alpha1A subunit of CaV2.1 channels (CaV2.1alpha1). DNA sequence analysis identified a novel point mutation resulting in a radical amino acid substitution (E147K) in CaV2.1alpha1, which segregated with the epilepsy/ataxia phenotype. Functional expression studies using human CACNA1A cDNA demonstrated that the E147K mutation results in impairment of calcium channel function. Impaired function of the brain calcium channel CaV2.1 may have a central role in the pathogenesis of certain cases of primary generalized epilepsy, particularly when associated with ataxia, which may be wrongly ascribed to anticonvulsant medication.
LabArray: real-time imaging and analytical tool for microarrays.	Microarrays have been used to perform high-throughput genetic analyses such as single-nucleotide polymorphisms detection and microbial genome analysis. Some of these analyses require real-time monitoring of the hybridization signals with respect to a varying experimental condition, such as temperature. However, current microarray imaging and analysis packages typically do not possess such real-time capabilities. Therefore, microarray image analyses are often time-consuming and labour-intensive. LabArray was developed to expedite such processes by enabling real-time monitoring of microarray signals.
Implementation of a gene expression index calculation method based on the PDNN model.	Gene expression index calculations from Affymetrix GeneChips have been dominated by the Affymetrix MAS, dChip, and RMA methods. A new method to estimate the gene expression value utilizing the probe sequence information named position-dependent nearest-neighbor (PDNN) has been suggested by Zhang et al. (2003). Here we describe an open source implementation of the PDNN method for the statistical language R.
Sequencing of genomic DNA by combined amplification and cycle sequencing reaction.	Despite considerable advances, DNA sequencing has remained somewhat time-consuming and expensive, requiring three separate steps to generate sequencing products from a template: amplification of the target sequence; purification of the amplified product; and a sequencing reaction. Our aim was to develop a method to routinely combine PCR amplification and cycle sequencing into one single reaction, enabling direct sequencing of genomic DNA.
ESTminer: a suite of programs for gene and allele identification.	ESTminer is a collection of programs that use expressed sequence tag (EST) data from inbred genomes to identify unique genes within gene families. The algorithm utilizes Cap3 to perform an initial clustering of related EST sequences to produce a consensus sequence of a gene family. These consensus sequences are then used to collect all ESTs in the original EST library that are related using BLAST. A redundancy based criterion is applied to each EST to identify reliable unique gene-sequences. Using a highly inbred genome as a source of ESTs eliminates the necessity of computing covariance on each polymorphism to identify alleles of the same gene, thus making this algorithm more streamlined than other alternatives which must computationally attempt to distinguish genes from alleles.
Quantification of allele-specific G-protein beta3 subunit mRNA transcripts in different human cells and tissues by Pyrosequencing.	The G-protein 825T allele is associated with altered drug responses while the underlying mechanism is not fully understood. Differential expression of transcripts from the C and T alleles could contribute to this process. The C825T polymorphism located in exon 10 is in close linkage disequilibrium with the A(-350)G promoter single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) and the C1429T SNP and could therefore serve as a marker for allele-specific expression resulting from the promoter SNP. However, alternative splicing of exon 10 in 825T allele carriers may result in under-represented mRNA transcripts. We, therefore, established a novel method based on the Pyrosequencing technology to quantify allele-specific transcript expression and quantified the allelic variance of the C1429T polymorphism located in the 3'-untranslated region of GNB3. Validation of the method was performed using linear regression analysis of measured versus expected ratios of DNA mixed at different known concentrations as well as determining allele-specific mRNA expression of the partially imprinted IGF-2 gene. We genotyped the C1429T polymorphism of 83 samples derived from six different human tissues and cell lines and quantified mRNA transcripts from different alleles using heterozygous samples. No significantly different transcript amounts from the two alleles were found. There were also no significantly different transcript amounts associated with different G(-350)A genotypes (P>0.05). As a result, we could show that Pyrosequencing provides a sensitive tool to quantify allele-specific transcript expression. Our data do not support the hypothesis that differential G-protein activity associated with the C825T SNP results from different transcript amounts associated with specific GNB3 genotypes.
Novel algorithm for automated genotyping of microsatellites.	Microsatellites or short tandem repeats (STRs) are abundant in the human genome with easily assayed polymorphisms, providing powerful genetic tools for mapping both Mendelian and complex traits. Microsatellite genotyping requires detection of the products of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification by electrophoresis, and analysis of the peak data for discrimination of the true allele. A high-throughput genotyping approach requires computer-based automation at both the detection and analysis phases. In order to achieve this, complicated peak patterns from individual alleles must be interpreted in order to assign alleles. Previous methods consider limited types of noise peaks and cannot provide enough accuracy. By pattern recognition of various types of noise peaks, such as stutter peaks and additional peaks, we have achieved an overall average accuracy of 94% for allele calling in our actual data. Our algorithm is crucial for a high-throughput genotyping system for microsatellite markers by reducing manual editing and human errors.
In silico gene selection strategy for custom microarray design.	Microarray technology has become an important tool for studying large-scale gene expression for a diversity of biological applications. However, there are a number of experimental settings for which commercial arrays are either unsuitable or unavailable despite the existence of sequence information. With the increasing availability of custom array manufacturing services, it is now feasible to design high-density arrays for any organism having sequence data. However, there have been relatively few reports discussing gene selection, an important first step in array design. Here we propose an in silico strategy for custom microarray gene selection that is applicable to a wide range of organisms, based on utilizing public domain microarray information to interrogate existing sequence data and to identify a set of homologous genes in any organism of interest. We demonstrate the utility of this approach by applying it to the selection of candidate genes for a custom Xenopus laevis microarray. A significant finding of this study is that 3%-4% of Xenopus expressed sequence tags (ESTs) are in an orientation contrary to that indicated in the public database entry (http://mssaha.people.wm.edu/suppMSS.html).
Integrative bioinformatics for functional genome annotation: trawling for G protein-coupled receptors.	G protein-coupled receptors (GPCR) are amongst the best studied and most functionally diverse types of cell-surface protein. The importance of GPCRs as mediates or cell function and organismal developmental underlies their involvement in key physiological roles and their prominence as targets for pharmacological therapeutics. In this review, we highlight the requirement for integrated protocols which underline the different perspectives offered by different sequence analysis methods. BLAST and FastA offer broad brush strokes. Motif-based search methods add the fine detail. Structural modelling offers another perspective which allows us to elucidate the physicochemical properties that underlie ligand binding. Together, these different views provide a more informative and a more detailed picture of GPCR structure and function. Many GPCRs remain orphan receptors with no identified ligand, yet as computer-driven functional genomics starts to elaborate their functions, a new understanding of their roles in cell and developmental biology will follow.
DNA sequencing and genotyping in miniaturized electrophoresis systems.	Advances in microchannel electrophoretic separation systems for DNA analyses have had important impacts on biological and biomedical sciences, as exemplified by the successes of the Human Genome Project (HGP). As we enter a new era in genomic science, further technological innovations promise to provide other far-reaching benefits, many of which will require continual increases in sequencing and genotyping efficiency and throughput, as well as major decreases in the cost per analysis. Since the high-resolution size- and/or conformation-based electrophoretic separation of DNA is the most critical step in many genetic analyses, continual advances in the development of materials and methods for microchannel electrophoretic separations will be needed to meet the massive demand for high-quality, low-cost genomic data. In particular, the development (and commercialization) of miniaturized genotyping platforms is needed to support and enable the future breakthroughs of biomedical science. In this review, we briefly discuss the major sequencing and genotyping techniques in which high-throughput and high-resolution electrophoretic separations of DNA play a significant role. We review recent advances in the development of technology for capillary electrophoresis (CE), including capillary array electrophoresis (CAE) systems. Most of these CE/CAE innovations are equally applicable to implementation on microfabricated electrophoresis chips. Major effort is devoted to discussing various key elements needed for the development of integrated and practical microfluidic sequencing and genotyping platforms, including chip substrate selection, microchannel design and fabrication, microchannel surface modification, sample preparation, analyte detection, DNA sieving matrices, and device integration. Finally, we identify some of the remaining challenges, and some of the possible routes to further advances in high-throughput DNA sequencing and genotyping technologies.
Detection of differences in oligonucleotide-influenced aggregation of colloidal gold nanoparticles using absorption spectroscopy.	A rapid, simple, and reproducible assay is described that can be used to detect differences in the ability of oligonucleotides to influence the aggregation of colloidal gold nanoparticles. The aggregation reaction of the gold colloid was monitored through UV-visible absorption spectroscopy. Single isolated colloidal gold particles have a surface plasmon resonance manifested as a single absorbance peak at approximately 520 nm, and aggregated gold complexes develop new red-shifted peaks/shoulders depending on the nature and extent of the aggregated complex. A simple ratiometric study of the area under the single and aggregated plasmon resonance peaks thus gives information about the extent of the aggregation. It is postulated that differences in dynamic flexibility of the oligonucleotides affect their influence on the aggregation state of the gold nanoparticles. The results of this study provide new clues toward unraveling the causes behind the preferential affinity of the Hermes transposable element for certain insertion sites compared to other sequences that also contain recognizable target sites. The technique is robust and thus can potentially be used to study similar questions for numerous transposable elements and target sequences.
Single cell DNA analysis: possibilities, methods, implications in relation to stem cell therapy]	In the analysis of circulating tumor cells or in the preimplantation genetic diagnosis it is frequently necessary to examine one single cell. Some methods are appropriate to isolate single cells: Laser Assisted Microdissection, magnetic cell separation or FACS. The use of the whole genome amplification methods are needful, because the amount of the DNA extracted from the isolated cells is very low and inappropriate for additional examinations. With different molecular biological methods (e.g. sequencing, chip-technology) it is possible to determine genetic alterations in the analysed cells, and to return the modified cells with in vitro gene technological methods (viral vectors, non viral methods). Our aim is to summarize the methods and the possible technical problems developing during the process of the single cell molecular biological analysis.
A multi-enzyme model for Pyrosequencing.	Pyrosequencing is a DNA sequencing technique based on sequencing-by-synthesis enabling rapid real-time sequence determination. This technique employs four enzymatic reactions in a single tube to monitor DNA synthesis. Nucleotides are added iteratively to the reaction and in case of incorporation, pyrophosphate (PPi) is released. PPi triggers a series of reactions resulting in production of light, which is proportional to the amount of DNA and number of incorporated nucleotides. Generated light is detected and recorded by a detector system in the form of a peak signal, which reflects the activity of all four enzymes in the reaction. We have developed simulations to model the kinetics of the enzymes. These simulations provide a full model for the Pyrosequencing four-enzyme system, based on which the peak height and shape can be predicted depending on the concentrations of enzymes and substrates. Simulation results are shown to be compatible with experimental data. Based on these simulations, the rate-limiting steps in the chain can be determined, and K(M) and kcat of all four enzymes in Pyrosequencing can be calculated.
Rapid analysis of CpG methylation patterns using RNase T1 cleavage and MALDI-TOF.	Here, we introduce a method for the fast and accurate analysis of DNA methylation based on bisulfite-treated DNA. The target region is PCR amplified using a T7 RNA polymerase promoter-tagged primer. A subsequent in vitro transcription leads to a transcript which contains guanosine residues only at sites that contained methylated cytosines before bisulfite treatment. In a single tube reaction using guanosine-specific cleavage by RNase T1, a specific pattern of RNA fragments is formed. This pattern directly represents the methylation state of the sample DNA and is analyzed using matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight technology. This method was successfully applied to the analysis of artificially methylated and unmethylated DNA, mixtures thereof and colon DNA samples. The applicability for the analysis of both PCR products and cloned PCR products is demonstrated. The observed methylation patterns were confirmed by bisulfite sequencing.
MethylQuant: a sensitive method for quantifying methylation of specific cytosines within the genome.	Here we present MethylQuant, a novel method that allows accurate quantification of the methylation level of a specific cytosine within a complex genome. This method relies on the well-established treatment of genomic DNA with sodium bisulfite, which converts cytosine into uracil without modifying 5-methyl cytosine. The region of interest is then PCR-amplified and quantification of the methylation status of a specific cytosine is performed by methylation-specific real-time PCR with SYBR Green I using one of the primers whose 3' end discriminates between the methylation states of this cytosine. The presence of a locked nucleic acid at the 3' end of the discriminative primer provides the specificity necessary for accurate and sensitive quantification, even when one of the methylation states is present at a level as low as 1% of the overall population. We demonstrate that accurate quantification of the methylation status of specific cytosines can be achieved in biological samples. The method is high-throughput, cost-effective, relatively simple and does not require any specific equipment other than a real-time PCR instrument.
The analysis of stress-induced duplex destabilization in long genomic DNA sequences.	We present a method for calculating predicted locations and extents of stress-induced DNA duplex destabilization (SIDD) as functions of base sequence and stress level in long DNA molecules. The base pair denaturation energies are assigned individually, so the influences of near neighbors, methylated bases, adducts, or lesions can be included. Sample calculations indicate that copolymeric energetics give results that are close to those derived when full near-neighbor energetics are used; small but potentially informative differences occur only in the calculated SIDD properties of moderately destabilized regions. The method presented here for analyzing long sequences calculates the destabilization properties within windows of fixed length N, with successive windows displaced by an offset distance d(o). The final values of the relevant destabilization parameters for each base pair are calculated as weighted averages of the values computed for each window in which that base pair appears. This approach implicitly assumes that the strength of the direct coupling between remote base pairs that is induced by the imposed stress attenuates with their separation distance. This strategy enables calculations of the destabilization properties of DNA sequences of any length, up to and including complete chromosomes. We illustrate its utility by calculating the destabilization properties of the entire E. coli genomic DNA sequence. A preliminary analysis of the results shows that promoters are associated with SIDD regions in a highly statistically significant manner, suggesting that SIDD attributes may prove useful in the computational prediction of promoter locations in prokaryotes.
The DNA methylation events in normal and cloned rabbit embryos.	To study the DNA methylation events in normal and cloned rabbit embryos, we investigated the methylation status of a satellite sequence and the promoter region of a single-copy gene using bisulfite-sequencing technology. During normal rabbit embryo development, both sequences maintained hypermethylation status until the 8- to 16-cell stage when progressive demethylation took place. In cloned embryos, the single-copy gene promoter sequence was rapidly demethylated and precociously de novo methylated, while the satellite sequence maintained the donor-type methylation status in all examined stages. Our results indicate that unique sequences as well as satellite sequences may have aberrant methylation patterns in cloned embryos.
Structural and functional analysis of a 0.5-Mb chicken region orthologous to the imprinted mammalian Ascl2/Mash2-Igf2-H19 region.	Previous studies revealed that Igf2 and Mpr/Igf2r are imprinted in eutherian mammals and marsupials but not in monotremes or birds. Igf2 lies in a large imprinted cluster in eutherians, and its imprinting is regulated by long-range mechanisms. As a step to understand how the imprinted cluster evolved, we have determined a 490-kb chicken sequence containing the orthologs of mammalian Ascl2/Mash2, Ins2 and Igf2. We found that most of the genes in this region are conserved between chickens and mammals, maintaining the same transcriptional polarities and exon-intron structures. However, H19, an imprinted noncoding transcript, was absent from the chicken sequence. Chicken ASCL2/CASH4 and INS, the orthologs of the imprinted mammalian genes, showed biallelic expression, further supporting the notion that imprinting evolved after the divergence of mammals and birds. The H19 imprinting center and many of the local regulatory elements identified in mammals were not found in chickens. Also, a large segment of tandem repeats and retroelements identified between the two imprinted subdomains in mice was not found in chickens. Our findings show that the imprinted genes were clustered before the emergence of imprinting and that the elements associated with imprinting probably evolved after the divergence of mammals and birds.
Transcriptome analysis for the chicken based on 19,626 finished cDNA sequences and 485,337 expressed sequence tags.	We present an analysis of the chicken (Gallus gallus) transcriptome based on the full insert sequences for 19,626 cDNAs, combined with 485,337 EST sequences. The cDNA data set has been functionally annotated and describes a minimum of 11,929 chicken coding genes, including the sequence for 2260 full-length cDNAs together with a collection of noncoding (nc) cDNAs that have been stringently filtered to remove untranslated regions of coding mRNAs. The combined collection of cDNAs and ESTs describe 62,546 clustered transcripts and provide transcriptional evidence for a total of 18,989 chicken genes, including 88% of the annotated Ensembl gene set. Analysis of the ncRNAs reveals a set that is highly conserved in chickens and mammals, including sequences for 14 pri-miRNAs encoding 23 different miRNAs. The data sets described here provide a transcriptome toolkit linked to physical clones for bioinformaticians and experimental biologists who wish to use chicken systems as a low-cost, accessible alternative to mammals for the analysis of vertebrate development, immunology, and cell biology.
Elimination of locus-specific inter-individual variation in quantitative PCR.	Robust dosage PCR (RD-PCR), a duplex and quantitative PCR, detects large heterozygous deletions and duplications in genomic DNA samples. RD-PCR amplifies an endogenous internal control and a target locus. Two of six RD-PCR assays behaved anomalously due to lower yields specific to the targets. The variability was eliminated by heat treatment of the genomic DNA samples in 2x TE solution at 90 degrees C for 10 min. Heat treatment improves the utility of RD-PCR and may be generally helpful in multiplex PCR quantitation. The mechanism by which heat treatment eliminates inter-individual variation is unclear. The variability is not associated with DNA extraction methods, RNA contamination, or solution protein contamination, but may reflect inhibition from tightly bound chromatin proteins.
MaGIC: a program to generate targeted marker sets for genome-wide association studies.	High-throughput genotyping technologies such as DNA pooling and DNA microarrays mean that whole-genome screens are now practical for complex disease gene discovery using association studies. Because it is currently impractical to use all available markers, a subset is typically selected on the basis of required saturation density. Restricting markers to those within annotated genomic features of interest (e.g., genes or exons) or within feature-rich regions, reduces workload and cost while retaining much information. We have designed a program (MaGIC) that exploits genome assembly data to create lists of markers correlated with other genomic features. Marker lists are generated at a user-defined spacing and can target features with a user-defined density. Maps are in base pairs or linkage disequilibrium units (LDUs) as derived from the International HapMap data, which is useful for association studies and fine-mapping. Markers may be selected on the basis of heterozygosity and source database, and single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers may additionally be selected on the basis of validation status. The import function means the method can be used for any genomic features such as housekeeping genes, long interspersed elements (LINES), or Alu repeats in humans, and is also functional for other species with equivalent data. The program and source code is freely available at http://cogent.iop.kcl.ac.uk/MaGIC.cogx.
From worm to human: bioinformatics approaches to identify FOXO target genes.	Longevity regulatory genes include the Forkhead transcription factor FOXO, in addition to NAD-dependent histone deacetylase silent information regulator 2 (Sir2). The FOXO/DAF-16 family of transcription factors constitute an evolutionarily conserved subgroup within a larger family known as winged helix or Forkhead transcriptional regulators. Here we demonstrate how to identify FOXO target genes and their potential cis-regulatory binding sites in the promoters via bioinformatics approaches. These results provide new testable hypotheses for further experimental verifications.
SNP detection using peptide nucleic acid probes and conjugated polymers: applications in neurodegenerative disease identification.	A strategy employing a combination of peptide nucleic acid (PNA) probes, an optically amplifying conjugated polymer (CP), and S1 nuclease enzyme is capable of detecting SNPs in a simple, rapid, and sensitive manner. The recognition is accomplished by sequence-specific hybridization between the uncharged, fluorescein-labeled PNA probe and the DNA sequence of interest. After subsequent treatment with S1 nuclease, the cationic water soluble CP electrostatically associates with the remaining anionic PNA/DNA complex, leading to sensitized emission of the labeled PNA probe via FRET from the CP. The generation of fluorescent signal is controlled by strand-specific electrostatic interactions and is governed by the complementarity of the probe/target pair. To assess the method, we compared the ability of the sensor system to detect normal, wild-type human DNA sequences, and those sequences containing a single base mutation. Specifically, we examined a PNA probe complementary to a region of the gene encoding the microtubule associated protein tau. The probe sequence covers a known point mutation implicated in a dominant neurodegenerative dementia known as frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17), which has clinical and molecular similarities to Alzheimer's disease. By using an appropriate PNA probe, the conjugated polymer poly[(9,9-bis(6'-N,N,N-trimethylammoniumhexylbromide)fluorene)-co-phenylene] and S1 nuclease, unambiguous FRET signaling is achieved for the wild-type DNA and not the mutant sequence harboring the SNP. Distance relationships in the CP/PNA assay are also discussed to highlight constraints and demonstrate improvements within the system.
Functional analysis and localisation of a delta-class glutathione S-transferase from Sarcoptes scabiei.	The mite Sarcoptes scabiei causes sarcoptic mange, or scabies, a disease that affects both animals and humans worldwide. Our interest in S. scabiei led us to further characterise a glutathione S-transferase. This multifunctional enzyme is a target for vaccine and drug development in several parasitic diseases. The S. scabiei glutathione S-transferase open reading frame reported here is 684 nucleotides long and yields a protein with a predicted molecular mass of 26 kDa. Through phylogenetic analysis the enzyme was classified as a delta-class glutathione S-transferase, and our paper is the first to report that delta-class glutathione S-transferases occur in organisms other than insects. The recombinant S. scabiei glutathione S-transferase was expressed in Escherichia coli via three different constructs and purified for biochemical analysis. The S. scabiei glutathione S-transferase was active towards the substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, though the positioning of fusion partners influenced the kinetic activity of the enzyme. Polyclonal antibodies raised against S. scabiei glutathione S-transferase specifically localised the enzyme to the integument of the epidermis and cavities surrounding internal organs in adult parasites. However, some minor staining of parasite intestines was observed. No staining was seen in host tissues, nor could we detect any antibody response against S. scabiei glutathione S-transferase in sera from naturally S. scabiei infected dogs or pigs. Additionally, the polyclonal sera raised against recombinant S. scabiei glutathione S-transferase readily detected a protein from mites, corresponding to the predicted size of native glutathione S-transferase.
Determination of the coding and non-coding nucleotide sequences of genuine Edmonston-Zagreb master seed and current working seed lot.	To confirm the genetic stability of the Edmonston-Zagreb vaccine strain, we determined and compared the nucleotide sequences of genuine Edmonston-Zagreb master seed (EZ D22) and current working seed lot (EZ D24 2/99). Sequence analysis and comparison of the two sequences confirmed that these two sequences are the same at the molecular level. The obtained sequences were also compared to reference strains, i.e. Edmonston wild-type (Edmonston Wt) AF266288 and Edmonston-Zagreb (EZ) AF266290 vaccine strain. The sequence of EZ D22 differed from the Edmonston Wt in 32 nucleotides. EZ D22 differed from EZ AF266290 in six nucleotides. Coding substitution at position 441 and two silent substitutions at positions 11999 and 14612 in the L gene are unique to EZ D22. The differences found between EZ from different sources can be a good reason for periodical sequence analysis of the same strain in the hands of different manufactures.
Mitochondrial DNA haplotyping revealed the presence of mixed up benign and neoplastic tissue sections from two individuals on the same prostatic biopsy slide.	DNA typing was requested to investigate a presumptive cancer diagnosis error by confirming whether benign and cancerous prostatic tissue in the same presurgical haematoxylin and eosin stained slide belonged to the same person. After independent histological re-examination of the slide by a pathologist, manual slide dissection was used to guarantee independent and high recovery DNA isolation from each tissue section, avoiding carryover and background contamination. Nuclear DNA quantification performed by real time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) revealed the absence of human DNA for short tandem repeat (STR) typing. Mitochondrial DNA was only obtained by performing PCR of very short fragments ( approximately 100 bp), indicating high DNA degradation. Different low frequency hypervariable region I haplotypes were obtained from each tissue section (normal tissue section haplotype: 16224C, 16234T, 16311C, 16356C; cancer tissue section haplotype: 16256T, 16270T, 16293G). Only the normal tissue section haplotype matched that obtained from the patient's blood sample, indicating that the cancer tissue section originated from an unknown patient. These results supported the hypothesis of sample mix up during block processing or slide preparation by a carryover mechanism. Mitochondrial genetic typing is recommended to exclude the possibility of carryover artefacts when low DNA content and high degradation compromise conventional STR typing.
Multiplex amplified product-length polymorphism analysis of 36 mitochondrial single-nucleotide polymorphisms for haplogrouping of East Asian populations.	We present a reliable, rapid, and economical multiplex amplified product-length polymorphism (APLP) method for analyzing the haplogroup-diagnostic mitochondrial single-nucleotide polymorphisms (mtSNPs) in East Asian populations. By examining only 36 haplogroup-specific mtSNPs in the coding region by using four 9-multiplex polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and subsequent electrophoresis, we could safely assign 1815 individuals from 8 populations of Japanese, Korean, Chinese, and Germans to 45 relevant haplogroups. This multiplex APLP analysis of coding-region mtSNPs for haplogrouping is especially useful not only for molecular phylogenetic studies but also for large-scale association studies due to its rapid and economical nature. This is the first panel of mtSNPs in the coding region to be used for haplogrouping of East Asian populations.
Matrix conditioning for lengthened capillary DNA sequencing.	Capillary electrophoresis (CE) is currently the preferred format for both DNA sequencing and small DNA fragment analysis. The present study provides a simple revision of the procedure used for CE of DNA with a commercial DNA sequencing apparatus from Applied Biosystems. The revision is electrophoretic conditioning of the sieving matrix (typically POP-6) before sample injection. The effects of this preconditioning are revealed during subsequent analyses performed without replenishing the sieving matrix. The primary effect of preconditioning is to increase peak separations during a subsequent CE. The preconditioning has the following characteristics: (i) The effect on peak separation progressively increases as the preconditioning time increases to at least 6 h. (ii) The effect on peak separation scales approximately as the product of the preconditioning time and the magnitude of the electrical field (162 - 320 V/cm) during preconditioning. (iii) The preconditioning persists for more than 72 h at zero field. Preconditioning of the matrix substantially improves resolution of fragment analysis in the range of 700-2000 nucleotides. For DNA sequencing, the primary impact of preconditioning is, thus far, extension of the range of low-quality base calls at the end of sequence reading. Matrix preconditioning is a new factor to consider when interpreting data obtained by CE in polymer solutions. The mechanism of preconditioning is not yet known.
Single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis of candidate genes for reliable identification of alleles by capillary array electrophoresis.	We investigated the reliability of capillary array electrophoresis-single strand conformation polymorphism (CAE-SSCP) to determine if it can be used to identify novel alleles of candidate genes in a germplasm collection. Both strands of three different size fragments (160, 245 and 437 bp) that differed by one or more nucleotides in sequence were analyzed at four different temperatures (18 degrees C, 25 degrees C, 30 degrees C, and 35 degrees C). Mixtures of amplified fragments of either the intron interrupting the C-terminal WRKY domain of the Tc10 locus or the NBS domain of the TcRGH1 locus of Theobroma cacao were electroinjected into all 16 capillaries of an ABI 3100 Genetic Analyzer and analyzed three times at each temperature. Multiplexing of samples of different size range is possible, as intermediate and large fragments were analyzed simultaneously in these experiments. A statistical analysis of the means of the fragment mobilities demonstrated that single-stranded conformers of the fragments could be reliably identified by their mobility at all temperatures and size classes. The order of elution of fragments was not consistent over strands or temperatures for the intermediate and large fragments. If samples are only run once at a single temperature, small fragments could be identified from a single strand at a single temperature. A combination of data from both strands of a single run was needed to identify correctly all four of the intermediate fragments and no combination of data from strands or temperatures would allow the correct identification of two large fragments that differed by only a single single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) from a single run. Thus, to adequately assess alleles at a candidate gene locus using SSCP on a capillary array, fragments should be < or =250 bp, samples should be analyzed at two different temperatures between 18 degrees C and 30 degrees C to reduce the variability introduced by the capillaries, data should be combined from both strands and both temperatures, and undenatured double-stranded (ds)DNA molecular weight standards, such as ROX 2500, should be included as internal standards.
Quasi-interpenetrating network formed by polyacrylamide and poly(N,N-dimethylacrylamide) used in high-performance DNA sequencing analysis by capillary electrophoresis.	Quasi-interpenetrating network (IPN) formed by polyacrylamide and poly(N,N-dimethylacrylamide) was designed, synthesized, and tested as a high-performance DNA separation medium by capillary electrophoresis. The performance of quasi-IPN on DNA sequencing was determined by the acrylamide to dimethylacrylamide molar ratio, polyacrylamide molecular weight, and its size distribution. Under optimal operating conditions, quasi-IPN was able to achieve one-color DNA sequencing up to 1000 bases in 39 min, or 1200 bases in 60 min. Its performance was compared with some of the existing commercialized products, such as POP6 from Applied Biosystems and MegaBACE matrix from Amersham Biosciences. By using the ABI 310 Genetic Analyzer, even without optimized base-calling software, quasi-IPN yielded a read length of up to 700 bases of contiguous sequence (50-750 bases) in 35 min with 99.6% accuracy, or 750 bases of contiguous sequence (50-800 bases) in 37 min with 98.0% accuracy.
Comparative sequence analysis and radiation hybrid mapping of two epidermal type II keratin genes in the dog: keratin 1 and keratin 2e.	In order to extend knowledge of the process of cornification across species and to be better able to recognize inborn errors in keratin synthesis in the dog, we describe the organization and chromosome mapping of canine KRT1 and KRT2E and compare these results to human and murine sequence data. The coding regions of KRT1 and KRT2E are 1,860 bp and 1,902 bp respectively, distributed over nine exons. Both genes are localized on the canine radiation hybrid map to chromosome 27 in the type II keratin gene cluster close to polymorphic markers. These genes are highly conserved across species and based on both genomic and amino acid sequences, canine KRT1 and KRT2E share greater homology with humans than with mice.
Sequencing and mapping hemoglobin gene clusters in the Australian model dasyurid marsupial Sminthopsis macroura.	Comparing globin genes and their flanking sequences across many species has allowed globin gene evolution to be reconstructed in great detail. Marsupial globin sequences have proved to be of exceptional significance. A previous finding of a beta(beta)-like omega(omega) gene in the alpha(alpha) cluster in the tammar wallaby suggested that the alpha and beta cluster evolved via genome duplication and loss rather than tandem duplication. To confirm and extend this important finding we isolated and sequenced BACs containing the alpha and beta loci from the distantly related Australian marsupial Sminthopsis macroura. We report that the alpha gene lies in the same BAC as the beta-like omega gene, implying that the alpha-omega juxtaposition is likely to be conserved in all marsupials. The LUC7L gene was found 3' of the S. macroura alpha locus, a gene order shared with humans but not mouse, chicken or fugu. Sequencing a BAC contig that contained the S. macroura beta globin and epsilon globin loci showed that the globin cluster is flanked by olfactory genes, demonstrating a gene arrangement conserved for over 180 MY. Analysis of the region 5' to the S. macroura epsilon (epsilon) globin gene revealed a region similar to the eutherian LCR, containing sequences and potential transcription factor binding sites with homology to eutherian hypersensitive sites 1 to 5. FISH mapping of BACs containing S. macroura alpha and beta globin genes located the beta globin cluster on chromosome 3q and the alpha locus close to the centromere on 1q, resolving contradictory map locations obtained by previous radioactive in situ hybridization.
Comparative genome sequencing of Drosophila pseudoobscura: chromosomal, gene, and cis-element evolution.	We have sequenced the genome of a second Drosophila species, Drosophila pseudoobscura, and compared this to the genome sequence of Drosophila melanogaster, a primary model organism. Throughout evolution the vast majority of Drosophila genes have remained on the same chromosome arm, but within each arm gene order has been extensively reshuffled, leading to a minimum of 921 syntenic blocks shared between the species. A repetitive sequence is found in the D. pseudoobscura genome at many junctions between adjacent syntenic blocks. Analysis of this novel repetitive element family suggests that recombination between offset elements may have given rise to many paracentric inversions, thereby contributing to the shuffling of gene order in the D. pseudoobscura lineage. Based on sequence similarity and synteny, 10,516 putative orthologs have been identified as a core gene set conserved over 25-55 million years (Myr) since the pseudoobscura/melanogaster divergence. Genes expressed in the testes had higher amino acid sequence divergence than the genome-wide average, consistent with the rapid evolution of sex-specific proteins. Cis-regulatory sequences are more conserved than random and nearby sequences between the species--but the difference is slight, suggesting that the evolution of cis-regulatory elements is flexible. Overall, a pattern of repeat-mediated chromosomal rearrangement, and high coadaptation of both male genes and cis-regulatory sequences emerges as important themes of genome divergence between these species of Drosophila.
Species concepts and biodiversity in Trichoderma and Hypocrea: from aggregate species to species clusters?	Trichoderma/Hypocrea is a genus of soil-borne or wood-decaying fungi containing members important to mankind as producers of industrial enzymes and biocontrol agents against plant pathogens, but also as opportunistic pathogens of immunocompromised humans. Species identification, while essential in view of the controversial properties of taxa of this genus, has been problematic by traditional methods. Here we will present a critical survey of the various identification methods in use. In addition, we will present an update on the taxonomy and phylogeny of the 88 taxa (which occur as 14 holomorphs, 49 teleomorphs and 25 anamorphs in nature) of Trichoderma/Hypocrea that have been confirmed by a combination of morphological, physiological and genetic approaches.
Representative appressorium stage cDNA library of Magnaporthe grisea.	A mature appressorium cDNA library of rice blast fungus, Magnaporthe grisea, was constructed in a lambdaTriplEx2 vector by SMART cDNA library containing 2.37x10(6) independent clones about 100% of which harbor foreign cDNA inserts with average size of 660 bp. Of 9 randomly selected clones, 2 expressed sequence tags (ESTs) sequences did not have homologous EST sequences of M. grisea in GenBank. The appressorium cDNA library is suitable for gene expression analysis and function analysis of the late stages of appressorium formation and the early stages of penetration of M. grisea.
Mining the probiotic genome: advanced strategies, enhanced benefits, perceived obstacles.	Recent advances in DNA sequencing has made it possible to accurately decipher the entire genetic complement of a probiotic bacterium. Increases in sequencing capabilities have been enhanced through improved computer software that can annotate, or identify, the majority of genes encoded by the sequence. The availability of annotated genome sequence will be important in defining the capabilities of the individual strains of probiotic bacteria. It will also form the platform for microarray and proteomic technologies that allow real-time analysis of RNA and protein expression in the bacterial cell. Investigation of probiotic organisms with these new and potentially powerful tools will facilitate the development of the bacteria as therapeutic agents, and provide the mechanisms to produce advanced probiotic strains. This paper addresses the core technologies in the rapidly growing area of genomics, and their application to the molecular characterisation of probiotic bacteria and host-microbe interactions.
Non-cross-linking gold nanoparticle aggregation as a detection method for single-base substitutions.	Aggregation of DNA-modified gold nanoparticles in a non-cross-linking configuration has extraordinary selectivity against terminal mismatch of the surface-bound duplex. In this paper, we demonstrate the utility of this selectivity for detection of single-base substitutions. The samples were prepared through standard protocols: DNA extraction, PCR amplification and single-base primer extension. Oligonucleotide-modified nanoparticles correctly responded to the unpurified products from the primer extension: aggregation for the full match and dispersion for all the mismatches. Applicability of this method to genomic DNA was tested with five human tumor cell lines, and verified by conventional technologies: mass spectrometry and direct sequencing. Unlike the existing methods for single-base substitution analysis, this method does not need specialized equipments, and opens up a new possibility of point-of-care diagnosis for single-nucleotide polymorphisms.
MAP2: multiple alignment of syntenic genomic sequences.	We describe a multiple alignment program named MAP2 based on a generalized pairwise global alignment algorithm for handling long, different intergenic and intragenic regions in genomic sequences. The MAP2 program produces an ordered list of local multiple alignments of similar regions among sequences, where different regions between local alignments are indicated by reporting only similar regions. We propose two similarity measures for the evaluation of the performance of MAP2 and existing multiple alignment programs. Experimental results produced by MAP2 on four real sets of orthologous genomic sequences show that MAP2 rarely missed a block of transitively similar regions and that MAP2 never produced a block of regions that are not transitively similar. Experimental results by MAP2 on six simulated data sets show that MAP2 found the boundaries between similar and different regions precisely. This feature is useful for finding conserved functional elements in genomic sequences. The MAP2 program is freely available in source code form at http://bioinformatics.iastate.edu/aat/sas.html for academic use.
TRUGENE sequencing versus INNO-LiPA for sub-genotyping of HCV genotype-4.	Hepatitis C virus genotypes and subtypes determination is an important factor for understanding the epidemiology of the virus, in the pre-treatment evaluation of the patients and in defining better treatment strategies. In the present study, we compared two commercially available assays for HCV genotyping: the reverse hybridization based Innogenetics INNO-LiPA HCV II and the direct sequencing by TRUGENE assay. The study included 31 HCV-RNA positive Egyptian patients; 18 patients with chronic active hepatitis, 8 with HCC, and 5 with cirrhosis. Using the TRUGENE genotyping test, all the samples had genotype 4 (100%) and subtyped as 4a in 18/31(58%), 4c in 10/31 (32%), 4e in 1/31 (3%), 4a/c in 1/31 (3%), and 4g in 1/31 (3%). Using the INNO-LiPA assay, 30 samples had genotype 4 (97%), and 1 sample had genotype 1e (3%). One sample showed mixed infection with type 4f and type 1. Only six samples were subtypable by INNO-LiPA, three were genotype 4c/d, and the other three were 4f, 4e, and 1e. Seven samples gave reactivity in the INNO-LiPA of lines 5, 6, 16, 17, 18, which are considered untypable by the interpretation chart but considered to be a rare HCV genotype 4 by the manufacturer. At the genotype level, there was a 97% concordance between TRUGENE sequencing and INNO-LiPA, but at the subtype level the concordance rate was 3% only. We conclude that the TRUGENE genotyping assay is a reliable test for HCV genotyping for the detection of major types and subtypes detection, while INNO-LiPA is a good test at the genotype level but unreliable for subtyping especially in the Egyptian population. This is mainly due to the high diversity of genotype 4, which is the most prevalent genotype in Egypt.
Quantification of allele-specific expression of a gene encoding strawberry polygalacturonase-inhibiting protein (PGIP) using Pyrosequencing.	Recent studies indicate that allele-specific differences in gene expression are a common phenomenon. The extent to which differential allelic expression exists might be underestimated, due to the limited accuracy of the methods used so far. To demonstrate allele-specific expression, we investigated the transcript abundance of six individual, highly homologous alleles of a polygalacturonase-inhibiting protein gene (FaPGIP) from octoploid strawberry (Fragaria x ananassa). We applied the highly quantitative Pyrosequencing method which, for the gene under study, detected allele frequency differences as small as 4.0 +/- 2.8%. Pyrosequencing of RT-PCR products showed that one FaPGIP allele was preferentially expressed in leaf tissue, while two other alleles were expressed in a fruit-specific way. For fruits that were inoculated with Botrytis cinerea a strong increase in overall FaPGIP gene expression was observed. This upregulation was accompanied by a significant change in FaPGIP allele frequencies when compared with non-treated fruits. Remarkably, in the five cultivars tested, the allele frequency in cDNA from the inoculated fruits was similar to that in genomic DNA, suggesting uniform upregulation of all FaPGIP alleles present as a result of pathogenesis-related stress. The results demonstrate that when Pyrosequencing of RT-PCR products is performed, novel allele-specific gene regulation can be detected and quantified.
SNP identification in unamplified human genomic DNA with gold nanoparticle probes.	Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) comprise the most abundant source of genetic variation in the human genome. SNPs may be linked to genetic predispositions, frank disorders or adverse drug responses, or they may serve as genetic markers in linkage disequilibrium analysis. Thus far, established SNP detection techniques have utilized enzymes to meet the sensitivity and specificity requirements needed to overcome the high complexity of the human genome. Herein, we present for the first time a microarray-based method that allows multiplex SNP genotyping in total human genomic DNA without the need for target amplification or complexity reduction. This direct SNP genotyping methodology requires no enzymes and relies on the high sensitivity of the gold nanoparticle probes. Specificity is derived from two sequential oligonucleotide hybridizations to the target by allele-specific surface-immobilized capture probes and gene-specific oligonucleotide-functionalized gold nanoparticle probes. Reproducible multiplex SNP detection is demonstrated with unamplified human genomic DNA samples representing all possible genotypes for three genes involved in thrombotic disorders. The assay format is simple, rapid and robust pointing to its suitability for multiplex SNP profiling at the 'point of care'.
A model of the statistical power of comparative genome sequence analysis.	Comparative genome sequence analysis is powerful, but sequencing genomes is expensive. It is desirable to be able to predict how many genomes are needed for comparative genomics, and at what evolutionary distances. Here I describe a simple mathematical model for the common problem of identifying conserved sequences. The model leads to some useful rules of thumb. For a given evolutionary distance, the number of comparative genomes needed for a constant level of statistical stringency in identifying conserved regions scales inversely with the size of the conserved feature to be detected. At short evolutionary distances, the number of comparative genomes required also scales inversely with distance. These scaling behaviors provide some intuition for future comparative genome sequencing needs, such as the proposed use of "phylogenetic shadowing" methods using closely related comparative genomes, and the feasibility of high-resolution detection of small conserved features.
Proofreading genotyping assays mediated by high fidelity exo+ DNA polymerases.	DNA polymerases with 3'-5' proofreading function mediate high fidelity DNA replication but their application for mutation detection was almost completely neglected before 1998. The obstacle facing the use of exo(+) polymerases for mutation detection could be overcome by primer-3'-termini modification, which has been tested using allele-specific primers with 3' labeling, 3' exonuclease-resistance and 3' dehydroxylation modifications. Accordingly, three new types of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) assays have been developed to carry out genome-wide genotyping making use of the fidelity advantage of exo(+) polymerases. Such SNP assays might also provide a novel approach for re-sequencing and de novo sequencing. These new mutation detection assays are widely adaptable to a variety of platforms, including real-time PCR, multi-well plate and microarray technologies. Application of exo(+) polymerases to genetic analysis could accelerate the pace of personalized medicine.
Genetic instability of C. elegans comes naturally.	There have been many attempts to measure the genome-wide mutation rate for spontaneous mutations, using measurements of traits in inbred lines in which mutations have accumulated. However, these are likely to miss many small-effect mutations that are important for evolutionary processes. Recently, the genome-wide spontaneous mutation rate in inbred lines of Caenorhabditis elegans was estimated, using DNA sequencing. The results imply that the mutation rate is surprisingly high, and that insertion-deletion mutations are unexpectedly common. Phenotypic assays of the same lines detected only a small proportion of mutations that were predicted to have evolutionarily significant fitness effects.
Analyses of murine postsynaptic density-95 identify novel isoforms and potential translational control elements.	Postsynaptic density-95 (PSD-95) is an evolutionarily conserved synaptic adaptor protein that is known to bind many proteins including the NMDA receptor. This observation has implicated it in many NMDA receptor-dependent processes including spatial learning and synaptic plasticity. We have cloned and characterised the murine PSD-95 gene. In addition, we have identified two previously uncharacterised splice variants of the major murine PSD-95 transcript (PSD-95alpha): PSD-95alpha-2b results from an extension of exon 2 and PSD-95alpha-Delta18 from the temporal exclusion of exon 18. The presence of PSD-95alpha-2b sequences in other PSD-95 family members implicates this peptide stretch as functionally significant. Another potential transcript (PSD-95gamma) was also identified based on examination of EST databases. Immunoprecipitation assays demonstrate that proteins corresponding in size to PSD-95alpha-Delta18 and PSD-95gamma interact with the NMDA receptor, suggesting an important biological role for these isoforms. Finally, we have performed bioinformatics analyses of the PSD-95 mRNA untranslated regions, identifying multiple translational control elements that suggest protein production could be regulated post-transcriptionally. The variety of mRNA isoforms and regulatory elements identified provides for a high degree of diversity in the structure and function of PSD-95 proteins.
DNA analysis with multiplex microarray-enhanced PCR.	We have developed a highly sensitive method for DNA analysis on 3D gel element microarrays, a technique we call multiplex microarray-enhanced PCR (MME-PCR). Two amplification strategies are carried out simultaneously in the reaction chamber: on or within gel elements, and in bulk solution over the gel element array. MME-PCR is initiated by multiple complex primers containing gene-specific, forward and reverse, sequences appended to the 3' end of a universal amplification primer. The complex primer pair is covalently tethered through its 5' end to the polyacryl- amide backbone. In the bulk solution above the gel element array, a single pair of unattached universal primers simultaneously directs pseudo-monoplex PCR of all targets according to normal solution-phase PCR. The presence of a single universal PCR primer pair in solution accelerates amplification within gel elements and eliminates the problem of primer interference that is common to conventional multiplex PCR. We show 10(6)-fold amplification of targeted DNA after 50 cycles with average amplification efficiency 1.34 per cycle, and demonstrate specific on-chip amplification of six genes in Bacillus subtilis. All six genes were detected at 4.5 pg of bacterial genomic DNA (equivalent to 10(3) genomes) in 60 independent amplification reactions performed simultaneously in single reaction chamber.
New strategies for efficient typing of HLA class-II loci DQB1 and DRB1 by using Pyrosequencing.	The characterization of genetic risk factors for complex diseases located on chromosome-6 frequently requires human leucocyte antigen (HLA) genotyping of large patient cohorts. Currently available methods do not support high-throughput HLA typing beyond the major allele group level. We, thus, developed a high-throughput approach for the HLA-DQB1 and HLA-DRB1 loci that is based on Pyrosequencing. Pyrosequencing offers a higher degree of automation than direct sequencing or oligotyping. Using a dispensation order optimized for the particular HLA locus, rapid group typing and fine resolution can be achieved. We implemented the method for two important HLA loci--DQB1 and DRB1. The HLA-DQB1 typing method comprises the following steps: splitting the potential alleles after a generic polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification into groups with a first Pyrosequencing reaction and resolving the split allele groups by means of five further Pyrosequencing reactions. The HLA-DR gene family is known to be the most polymorphic one in the HLA class-II region because of a large number of DRB1 alleles. Because of this complex nature, HLA-DRB1 typing was performed by means of a combination of sequence-specific PCR typing and Pyrosequencing. HLA-DQB1 typing and HLA-DRB1 typing were performed successfully by using standard DNA samples with the help of known HLA genotypes and in a blind study by using the samples from the Deutscher Zell Austausch 2002 and 2003. The approach was optimized and was practically tested for genotyping in disease association studies. Our well-elaborated Pyrosequencing-based protocols offer a new alternative to the existing HLA class-II typing methods and represent a convenient and economic solution, a unique combination of high accuracy with high-sample throughput.
Severe FVII deficiency caused by a new point mutation combined with a previously undetected gene deletion.	A 3-week-old Caucasian female presented with severe unprovoked parenchymal cerebral haemorrhage. Her plasma factor VII (FVII) activity was <0.01 units/ml. FVII activities for her mother and sister were 0.65 units/ml and 0.51 units/ml, respectively, while her father's level was normal. These results indicated that the mother was heterozygous for a non-functional F7 gene that had also been inherited by the proband's sister. The proband's severe FVII deficiency was caused by a new mutation in her paternal F7 gene coupled with the inheritance of the non-functional maternal F7 gene. DNA sequence analysis revealed that the proband had apparent homozygosity for a novel single point mutation (g.3907G >A) changing the codon for Glu29 to Lys (E29K); neither parent had the E29K mutation. Because of the unlikelihood that the proband was homozygous for two identical new point mutations, the DNA sequence abnormality was more likely to have arisen from a single mutated gene on one allele and a F7 gene deletion on the other allele. Real time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis confirmed that the proband had inherited a gene deletion that was present in the maternal side of the family. Subsequent clotting assays and real time PCR revealed that the maternal deletion also included the closely linked F10 gene.
A new 5' terminal murine GAPDH exon identified using 5'RACE LaNe.	In this work, a ligation-independent, fully gene-specific, nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method for the elucidation of 5' cDNA sequence is described and demonstrated for the first time. Two manifestations of the method, rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) by lariat-dependent nested PCR 5' (RACE LaNe), at least as simple to perform as conventional RACE, were successfully applied to the murine housekeeping genes phosphoglycerate kinase 1 (PGK1), beta-actin (beta-ACT), and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) and the alpha thalassemia mental retardation Y homolog (ATRY) gene of the marsupial, Macropus eugenii. Significantly, a new murine GAPDH 5' exon, separated by 365 kb of intronic sequence from previously annotated GAPDH sequence, was discovered using 5'RACE LaNe.
Identification and characterization of Caenorhabditis elegans palmitoyl protein thioesterase1.	Infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (INCL; Batten disease) is a severe neurodegenerative disorder of childhood characterized by the accumulation of autofluorescent storage material in lysosomes. It is caused by mutation of the CLN1/PPT1 gene, which encodes the lysosomal enzyme palmitoyl protein thioesterase-1 (PPT1), but the mechanism of disease pathogenesis and substrates for the enzyme are unknown. Caenorhabditis elegans is a simple nematode worm, with a fully sequenced genome, which is easy to maintain and manipulate. It has a completely mapped cell lineage and nervous system and has already provided clues about the pathogenesis of several human neuronal and lysosomal storage disorders. We have identified and characterized a PPT1 homologue in C. elegans. We found that, although this gene was not essential for the animal's survival, its mutation resulted in a mild developmental and reproductive phenotype, affected the number and size of mitochondria, and resulted in an abnormality in mitochondrial morphology, possibly suggestive of a role for this organelle in INCL pathogenesis. This strain, deleted for ppt-1, potentially provides a model system for the study of PPT1 and the pathogenesis of INCL.
The biotin-streptavidin interaction can be reversibly broken using water at elevated temperatures.	The biotin-streptavidin system is the strongest noncovalent biological interaction known, having a dissociation constant, K(d), in the order of 4x10(-14) M. The strength and specificity of the interaction has led it to be one of the most widely used affinity pairs in molecular, immunological, and cellular assays. However, it has previously been impossible to re-use any streptavidin solid support, since the conditions needed to break the interaction with biotin has led to the denaturation of the streptavidin. Here, we show that a short incubation in nonionic aqueous solutions at temperatures above 70 degrees C can efficiently break the interaction without denaturing the streptavidin tetramer. Both biotin and the streptavidin remain active after dissociation and both molecules can therefore be re-used. The efficiency of the regeneration allowed solid supports with streptavidin to be used many times, here exemplified with the multiple re-use of streptavidin beads used for sample preparation prior to automated DNA sequencing. The results suggest that streptavidin regeneration can be introduced as an improvement in existing methods and assays based on the streptavidin system as well as emerging solid phase applications in fields, such as microfluidics and nanotechnology.
Tree pattern matching in phylogenetic trees: automatic search for orthologs or paralogs in homologous gene sequence databases.	Comparative sequence analysis is widely used to study genome function and evolution. This approach first requires the identification of homologous genes and then the interpretation of their homology relationships (orthology or paralogy). To provide help in this complex task, we developed three databases of homologous genes containing sequences, multiple alignments and phylogenetic trees: HOBACGEN, HOVERGEN and HOGENOM. In this paper, we present two new tools for automating the search for orthologs or paralogs in these databases.
A new computational method for the detection of horizontal gene transfer events.	In recent years, the increase in the amounts of available genomic data has made it easier to appreciate the extent by which organisms increase their genetic diversity through horizontally transferred genetic material. Such transfers have the potential to give rise to extremely dynamic genomes where a significant proportion of their coding DNA has been contributed by external sources. Because of the impact of these horizontal transfers on the ecological and pathogenic character of the recipient organisms, methods are continuously sought that are able to computationally determine which of the genes of a given genome are products of transfer events. In this paper, we introduce and discuss a novel computational method for identifying horizontal transfers that relies on a gene's nucleotide composition and obviates the need for knowledge of codon boundaries. In addition to being applicable to individual genes, the method can be easily extended to the case of clusters of horizontally transferred genes. With the help of an extensive and carefully designed set of experiments on 123 archaeal and bacterial genomes, we demonstrate that the new method exhibits significant improvement in sensitivity when compared to previously published approaches. In fact, it achieves an average relative improvement across genomes of between 11 and 41% compared to the Codon Adaptation Index method in distinguishing native from foreign genes. Our method's horizontal gene transfer predictions for 123 microbial genomes are available online at http://cbcsrv.watson.ibm.com/HGT/.
Genome-wide association studies for common diseases and complex traits.	Genetic factors strongly affect susceptibility to common diseases and also influence disease-related quantitative traits. Identifying the relevant genes has been difficult, in part because each causal gene only makes a small contribution to overall heritability. Genetic association studies offer a potentially powerful approach for mapping causal genes with modest effects, but are limited because only a small number of genes can be studied at a time. Genome-wide association studies will soon become possible, and could open new frontiers in our understanding and treatment of disease. However, the execution and analysis of such studies will require great care.
Genome-wide association studies: theoretical and practical concerns.	To fully understand the allelic variation that underlies common diseases, complete genome sequencing for many individuals with and without disease is required. This is still not technically feasible. However, recently it has become possible to carry out partial surveys of the genome by genotyping large numbers of common SNPs in genome-wide association studies. Here, we outline the main factors - including models of the allelic architecture of common diseases, sample size, map density and sample-collection biases - that need to be taken into account in order to optimize the cost efficiency of identifying genuine disease-susceptibility loci.
Identification of functional SNPs in the 5-prime flanking sequences of human genes.	Over 4 million single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are currently reported to exist within the human genome. Only a small fraction of these SNPs alter gene function or expression, and therefore might be associated with a cell phenotype. These functional SNPs are consequently important in understanding human health. Information related to functional SNPs in candidate disease genes is critical for cost effective genetic association studies, which attempt to understand the genetics of complex diseases like diabetes, Alzheimer's, etc. Robust methods for the identification of functional SNPs are therefore crucial. We report one such experimental approach.
Synthesis of universal unmethylated control DNA by nested whole genome amplification with phi29 DNA polymerase.	Optimization of highly sensitive methods to detect methylation of CpG islands in gene promoter regions requires adequate methylated and unmethylated control DNA. Whereas universal methylated control DNA is available, universal unmethylated control (UUC) DNA has not been made because demethylase is not available to remove methyl groups from all methylated cytosines. On the basis that DNA synthesized by DNA polymerase does not contain methylated cytosines, we developed a method to create UUC DNA by nested whole genome amplification (WGA) with phi29 DNA polymerase. Contamination of the template genomic DNA in UUC was only 3.1 x 10(-7), below the detection limit of sensitive methods used for methylation studies such as methylation-specific PCR. Assessment of microsatellite markers demonstrated that even nested phi29 WGA achieves highly accurate and homogeneous amplification with very low amounts of genomic DNA as an initial template. The UUC DNA created by nested phi29 WGA is practically very useful for methylation analysis.
FISH and immunocytochemistry: towards visualising single target molecules in living cells.	Knowledge of how molecules interact in space and time is crucial for understanding cellular processes. A host of novel techniques have been developed for the visualisation of single target molecules in living cells, many based on fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) or immunocytochemistry (IC). To extend the applicability of FISH to living cells, special backbone-modified probes and specific conformations (molecular beacons) have been designed. In the case of IC, conventional immunoreagents have been fine-tuned with respect to size and affinity or replaced with new protein scaffolds based on ankyrin repeat proteins. Other key advances include the use of proximity ligation to confirm vicinity binding and the use of quantum dots, which have proven potential for cellular labelling.
Plant promoter prediction with confidence estimation.	Accurate prediction of promoters is fundamental to understanding gene expression patterns, where confidence estimation is one of the main requirements. Using recently developed transductive confidence machine (TCM) techniques, we developed a new program TSSP-TCM for the prediction of plant promoters that also provides confidence of the prediction. The program was trained on 132 and 104 sequences and tested on 40 and 25 sequences (containing TATA and TATA-less promoters, respectively) with known transcription start sites (TSSs). As negative training samples for TCM learning we used coding and intron sequences of plant genes annotated in the GenBank. In the test set of TATA promoters, the program correctly predicted TSS for 35 out of 40 (87.5%) genes with a median deviation of several base pairs from the true site location. For 25 TATA-less promoters, TSSs were predicted for 21 out of 25 (84%) genes, including 14 cases of 5 bp distance between annotated and predicted TSSs. Using TSSP-TCM program we annotated promoters in the whole Arabidopsis genome. The predicted promoters were in good agreement with the start position of known Arabidopsis mRNAs. Thus, TCM technique has produced a plant-oriented promoter prediction tool of high accuracy. TSSP-TCM program and annotated promoters are available at http://mendel.cs.rhul.ac.uk/mendel.php?topic=fgen.
Functional promoter analysis using an approach based on an in vitro evolution strategy.	In vitro evolution imitates the natural evolution of genes and has been very successfully applied to the modification of coding sequences, but it has not yet been applied to promoter sequences. We propose an alternative method for functional promoter analysis by applying an in vitro evolution scheme consisting of rounds of error-prone PCR, followed by DNA shuffling and selection of mutant promoter activities. We modified the activity in embryogenic sugarcane cells of the promoter region of the "Goldfinger" isolate of banana streak virus and obtained mutant promoter sequences that showed an average mutation rate of 2.5% after applying one round of error-prone PCR and DNA shuffling. Selection and sequencing of promoter sequences with decreased or unaltered activity allowed us to rapidly map the position of one cis-acting element that influenced promoter activity in embryogenic sugarcane cells and to discover neutral mutations that did not affect promoter function. The "selective-shotgun" approach of this promoter analysis method immediately after the promoter boundaries have been defined by 5' deletion analysis dramatically reduces the labor associated with traditional "linker-scanning" deletion analysis to reveal the position of functional promoter domains. Furthermore, this method allows the entire promoter to be investigated at once, rather than selected domains or nucleotides, increasing the prospect of identifying interacting promoter regions.
Techniques in plant telomere biology.	The role model systems have played in understanding telomere biology has been enormous, and understanding has rapidly transferred to human telomere research. Most work using model organisms to study telomerase and nontelomerase-based telomere-maintenance systems has centered on yeasts, ciliates, and insects. But it is now timely to put considerably more effort into plant models for a number of reasons: (i) the rice and Arabidopsis genome sequencing projects make data mining possible; (ii) extensive collections of insertion mutants of Arabidopsis thaliana enable phenotypic effects of protein gene knockouts to be analyzed, including for those genes involved in telomere structure, function (including, for example, in meiosis), and maintenance; and (iii) the variability of plant telomeres is considerable and ranges from the telomerase-mediated synthesis of the Arabidopsis-type (TTTAGGG) and vertebrate-type (TTAGGG) repeats to sequences synthesized by telomerase-independent mechanism(s) that are still to be discovered. Here we describe how the understanding of telomere biology has been advanced by methods used to isolate telomeric sequences and prove that the putative sequences isolated are indeed telomeric. We show how assays designed to prove the activity of telomerase [e.g., telomeric repeat amplification protocol (TRAP)] lead not only to an understanding of telomere structure and function, but also to the understanding of cell activity in development and in the cell cycle. We review how assays designed to reveal protein/protein and protein/nucleic acid interactions promote understanding of the structure and activities of plant telomeres. Together, the data are making significant contributions to telomere biology in general and could have medical implications.
Multiplexed discovery of sequence polymorphisms using base-specific cleavage and MALDI-TOF MS.	The completion of the Human Genome Project provides researchers with a reference sequence that covers about 99% of the gene-containing regions and is more than 99.9% accurate. Sequence drafts and completed sequences for several other species are also available to researchers worldwide. The ongoing effort to provide more and more genomic reference information now enables the detection of deviations from this 'genetic blueprint'. Comparative sequencing projects will play a major role in elucidating the meaning of the genetic code and in establishing a correlation between genotype and phenotype. As part of this effort, a number of projects will focus on distinct functional aspects, like resequencing of exons or HLA determining regions. Typically these target regions are short in length and their analysis does not require long read length. To find an efficient solution for these applications, we developed a novel method that allows simultaneous analysis of multiple independent target regions (Multiplexed Comparative Sequence Analysis) by employing base-specific cleavage biochemistry and MALDI TOF-MS analysis.
Human pol II promoter prediction: time series descriptors and machine learning.	Although several in silico promoter prediction methods have been developed to date, they are still limited in predictive performance. The limitations are due to the challenge of selecting appropriate features of promoters that distinguish them from non-promoters and the generalization or predictive ability of the machine-learning algorithms. In this paper we attempt to define a novel approach by using unique descriptors and machine-learning methods for the recognition of eukaryotic polymerase II promoters. In this study, non-linear time series descriptors along with non-linear machine-learning algorithms, such as support vector machine (SVM), are used to discriminate between promoter and non-promoter regions. The basic idea here is to use descriptors that do not depend on the primary DNA sequence and provide a clear distinction between promoter and non-promoter regions. The classification model built on a set of 1000 promoter and 1500 non-promoter sequences, showed a 10-fold cross-validation accuracy of 87% and an independent test set had an accuracy >85% in both promoter and non-promoter identification. This approach correctly identified all 20 experimentally verified promoters of human chromosome 22. The high sensitivity and selectivity indicates that n-mer frequencies along with non-linear time series descriptors, such as Lyapunov component stability and Tsallis entropy, and supervised machine-learning methods, such as SVMs, can be useful in the identification of pol II promoters.
metaSHARK: software for automated metabolic network prediction from DNA sequence and its application to the genomes of Plasmodium falciparum and Eimeria tenella.	The metabolic SearcH And Reconstruction Kit (metaSHARK) is a new fully automated software package for the detection of enzyme-encoding genes within unannotated genome data and their visualization in the context of the surrounding metabolic network. The gene detection package (SHARKhunt) runs on a Linux system and requires only a set of raw DNA sequences (genomic, expressed sequence tag and/or genome survey sequence) as input. Its output may be uploaded to our web-based visualization tool (SHARKview) for exploring and comparing data from different organisms. We first demonstrate the utility of the software by comparing its results for the raw Plasmodium falciparum genome with the manual annotations available at the PlasmoDB and PlasmoCyc websites. We then apply SHARKhunt to the unannotated genome sequences of the coccidian parasite Eimeria tenella and observe that, at an E-value cut-off of 10(-20), our software makes 142 additional assertions of enzymatic function compared with a recent annotation package working with translated open reading frame sequences. The ability of the software to cope with low levels of sequence coverage is investigated by analyzing assemblies of the E.tenella genome at estimated coverages from 0.5x to 7.5x. Lastly, as an example of how metaSHARK can be used to evaluate the genomic evidence for specific metabolic pathways, we present a study of coenzyme A biosynthesis in P.falciparum and E.tenella.
An algorithm of computerized processing of molecular-genetic data for personality identification based on the outcome of events involving numerous victims]	Computerized systems of data processing are a high-efficiency tool for the storage and processing of big volumes of molecular genetic data as well as for the forensic medical identification of personality in events involving enormous unidentified bodies coming from zones of calamity or natural disaster. Described in the paper is a sequence of actions undertaken by the expert when the DNAdacto and mDNAbase soft tools are in use. The algorithm of computer-based expert analysis of typing of chromosome and mitochondrial DNA was tested at the 124th Central laboratory of medical-criminal identification of Russia's defense ministry; it was proven to be highly effective for identification made in events with numerous unidentified bodies.
Cloneless genomic DNA analysis: an efficient and simple methods for de novo genomic sequencing projects and gap filling.	The utility of using genomic DNA directly in agarose, i.e. cloneless libraries, in place of large clone libraries, radiation hybrid panels, or chromosome dissection was demonstrated. The advantage of the cloneless library approach is that, in principle, a targeted genomic resource can be developed rapidly for any genomic region using any genomic DNA sample. Here, a human chromosome 20 Not I fragment library was generated by slicing a pulsed field gel lane containing fractionating Not I cleaved DNA from a monosomic hybrid cell line into 2 mm pieces. A reliable PCR method using agarose embedded DNA was developed. InterAlu PCR generated unique patterns of products from adjacent slices (e.g. fractions). Further, the specificity of the interAlu products was demonstrated by FISH analysis and in other hybridization experiments to arrayed interAlu products. STS content mapping was used to order the fractions and also demonstrate the unique content of the library fractions.
Application of quantitative real-time PCR for monitoring the process of enrichment of clones on in vitro protein selection.	In vitro selection of proteins from cDNA libraries using display technologies, such as the in vitro virus method, is a powerful means for the discovery of novel protein interactions. After iterative screening, selected proteins are usually identified and evaluated by cloning and sequencing analysis. Previously we applied real-time PCR for evaluation of the sequences obtained on in vitro virus screening. Here, we have presented additional data regarding monitoring of the process of enrichment of selected clones in each round of selection and elimination of false positives by real-time PCR, and have also discussed the utility of the novel method. This approach should also be applicable to other display technologies.
Adaptive control of hybridization noise in DNA sequencing-by-hybridization.	We consider the problem of sequence reconstruction in sequencing-by-hybridization in the presence of spectrum errors. As suggested by intuition, and reported in the literature, false-negatives (i.e., missing spectrum probes) are by far the leading cause of reconstruction failures. In a recent paper we have described an algorithm, called "threshold-theta", designed to recover from false negatives. This algorithm is based on overcompensating for missing extensions by allowing larger reconstruction subtrees. We demonstrated, both analytically and with simulations, the increasing effectiveness of the approach as the parameter theta grows, but also pointed out that for larger error rates the size of the extension trees translates into an unacceptable computational burden. To obviate this shortcoming, in this paper we propose an adaptive approach which is both effective and efficient. Effective, because for a fixed value of theta it performs as well as its single-threshold counterpart, efficient because it exhibits substantial speed-ups over it. The idea is that, for moderate error rates a small fraction of the target sequence can be involved in error recovery; thus, expectedly the remainder of the sequence is reconstructible by the standard noiseless algorithm, with the provision to switch to operation with increasingly higher thresholds after detecting failure. This policy generates interesting and complex interplays between fooling probes and false negatives. These phenomena are carefully analyzed for random sequences and the results are found to be in excellent agreement with the simulations. In addition, the experimental algorithmic speed-ups of the multithreshold approach are explained in terms of the interaction amongst the different threshold regimes.
Evolution of relative synonymous codon usage in Human Immunodeficiency Virus type-1.	Mutation in Human Immunodeficiency Virus type-1 (HIV-1) is extremely rapid, a consequence of a low-fidelity viral reverse transcription process. The envelope gene has been shown to accumulate substitutions at a rate of approximately 1% per year and can frequently spend a long time in the host (approximately 10 years). The relative synonymous codon usage (RSCU) in HIV-1 is known to be different from that of the human host. However, by reengineering the protein coding sequences of HIV-1 to reflect the RSCU patterns observed in humans, a large increase in protein expression is observed. It is reasonable to suggest that within a host there may be a selective drive for change in the RSCU of HIV-1 towards human RSCU. To test this hypothesis we analyzed HIV-1 partial envelope sequences from eight patients sampled serially in time. For each sequence, an RSCU table was constructed. Sequences were labelled as "early" or "late" depending on whether they were sampled before or after the mid-point of the study. Using the RSCU values as descriptor variables, a Principal Components Analysis (PCA) was performed. The first three components clearly discriminated between early and late sequences. We also constructed pooled groupwise RSCU tables for early and late sequences. The viral RSCU values of each of the groups were correlated with human RSCU. If there is selection for host-adaptation in RSCU, we expect that "late" viral RSCUs would tend to be more highly correlated with human RSCU than "early" viral RSCUs. In fact, tests of significance suggest that this is the case. However, closer examination of the data revealed that the apparent trend towards human RSCU can be attributed to the homogenization of the codon usage by mutation pressure rather than host adaptation.
Comparative genomics approach toward critical determinants for the imprinting of an evolutionarily conserved gene Impact.	The Impact is an evolutionarily conserved gene subjected to genomic imprinting in mouse but not in human. A characteristic tandem repeat similar to those found in many other imprinted genes and an elevated expression level, both observed only for the mouse gene, are implicated in the evolution of imprinting, to which the repeat might have contributed via enhancement of the expression. To pursue the possibility further, we examined the correlation among the repeat, expression level, and imprinting of Impact in various mammals ranging from rodents, lagomorphs, carnivores, artiodactyls to primates. Intriguingly, rabbit Impact is abundantly expressed and imprinted like those of rodents, but is missing the repeat from its first intron like those of other mammals that express both alleles weakly. It thus seems that lineage-specific enhancement of gene expression rather than the tandem repeat per se played a critical role in the evolution of imprinting of Impact.
Promoter modeling: the case study of mammalian histone promoters.	Histone proteins play important roles in chromosomal functions. They are significantly evolutionarily conserved across species, which suggests similarity in their transcription regulation. The abundance of experimental data on histone promoters provides an excellent background for the evaluation of computational methods. Our study addresses the issue of how well computational analysis can contribute to unveiling the biologically relevant content of promoter regions for a large number of mammalian histone genes taken across several species, and suggests the consensus promoter models of different histone groups.
Optimization of cDNA-AFLP experiments using genomic sequence data.	cDNA amplified fragment length polymorphism (cDNA-AFLP) is one of the few genome-wide level expression profiling methods capable of finding genes that have not yet been cloned or even predicted from sequence but have interesting expression patterns under the studied conditions. In cDNA-AFLP, a complex cDNA mixture is divided into small subsets using restriction enzymes and selective PCR. A large cDNA-AFLP experiment can require a substantial amount of resources, such as hundreds of PCR amplifications and gel electrophoresis runs, followed by manual cutting of a large number of bands from the gels. Our aim was to test whether this workload can be reduced by rational design of the experiment.
An algorithm for identification of bacterial selenocysteine insertion sequence elements and selenoprotein genes.	Incorporation of selenocysteine (Sec) into proteins in response to UGA codons requires a cis-acting RNA structure, Sec insertion sequence (SECIS) element. Whereas SECIS elements in Escherichia coli are well characterized, a bacterial SECIS consensus structure is lacking.
Determining functional specificity from protein sequences.	Given a large family of homologous protein sequences, many methods can divide the family into smaller groups that correspond to the different functions carried out by proteins within the family. One important problem, however, has been the absence of a general method for selecting an appropriate level of granularity, or size of the groups.
ROBIN: a tool for genome rearrangement of block-interchanges.	ROBIN is a web server for analyzing genome rearrangement of block-interchanges between two chromosomal genomes. It takes two or more linear/circular chromosomes as its input, and computes the number of minimum block-interchange rearrangements between any two input chromosomes for transforming one chromosome into another and also determines an optimal scenario taking this number of rearrangements. The input can be either bacterial-size sequence data or landmark-order data. If the input is sequence data, ROBIN will automatically search for the identical landmarks that are the homologous/conserved regions shared by all the input sequences.
VariScan: Analysis of evolutionary patterns from large-scale DNA sequence polymorphism data.	VeriScan is a software package for the analysis of DNA sequence polymorphisms at the whole genome scale. Among other features, the software (1) can conduct many population genetic analyses; (2) incorporates a multiresolution wavelet transform-based method that allows capturing relevant information from DNA polymorphism data; (3) facilitates the visualization of the results in the most commonly used genome browsers.
A boosting approach for motif modeling using ChIP-chip data.	Building an accurate binding model for a transcription factor (TF) is essential to differentiate its true binding targets from those spurious ones. This is an important step toward understanding gene regulation.
An analysis of the use of genomic DNA as a universal reference in two channel DNA microarrays.	DNA microarray is an invaluable tool for gene expression explorations. In the two-dye microarray, fluorescence intensities of two samples, each labeled with a different dye, are compared after hybridization. To compare a large number of samples, the 'reference design' is widely used, in which all RNA samples are hybridized to a common reference. Genomic DNA is an attractive candidate for use as a universal reference, especially for bacterial systems with a low percentage of non-coding sequences. However, genomic DNA, comprising of both the sense and anti-sense strands, is unlike the single stranded cDNA usually used in microarray hybridizations. The presence of the antisense strand in the 'reference' leads to reactions between complementary labeled strands in solution and may cause the assay result to deviate from true values.
Pigs in sequence space: a 0.66X coverage pig genome survey based on shotgun sequencing.	Comparative whole genome analysis of Mammalia can benefit from the addition of more species. The pig is an obvious choice due to its economic and medical importance as well as its evolutionary position in the artiodactyls.
Clinical evaluation and mitochondrial DNA sequence analysis in three Chinese families with Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy.	We report here the clinical, genetic, and molecular characterization of three Chinese families (WZ4, WZ5, and WZ6) with Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON). Clinical and genetic evaluations revealed the variable severity and age-of-onset in visual impairment in these families. Penetrances of visual impairment in these Chinese families were 33.3%, 35.7%, and 35.5%, respectively, with an average 34.8%. Furthermore, the average age-at-onset in those Chinese families was 17, 20, and 18 years. In addition, the ratios between affected male and female matrilineal relatives in these Chinese families were 3:0, 1:1, and 1.2:1, respectively. Sequence analysis of the complete mitochondrial genomes in these pedigrees showed the distinct sets of mtDNA polymorphism, in addition to the identical G11778A mutation associated with LHON in many families. The fact that mtDNA of those pedigrees belonged to different haplogroups F1, D4, and M10 suggested that the G11778A mutation occurred sporadically and multiplied through evolution of the mtDNA in China. However, there was the absence of functionally significant mutations in tRNA and rRNAs or secondary LHON mutations in these Chinese families. The I187T mutation in the ND1, the S99A mutation in the A6, the V254I in CO3, and I58V in ND6 mutation, showing high evolutional conservation, may contribute to the phenotypic expression of the G11778A mutation in the WZ6 pedigree. By contrast, none of mtDNA variants are evolutionarily conserved and implicated to have significantly functional consequence in WZ4 and WZ5 pedigrees. Apparently, these variants do not have a potential modifying role in the development of visual impairment associated with G11778A mutation in those two families. Thus, nuclear modifier gene(s) or environmental factor(s) seem to account for the penetrance and expressivity of LHON in these three Chinese families carrying the G11778A mutation.
Universal 1/f noise, crossovers of scaling exponents, and chromosome-specific patterns of guanine-cytosine content in DNA sequences of the human genome.	Spatial fluctuations of guanine and cytosine base content (GC%) are studied by spectral analysis for the complete set of human genomic DNA sequences. We find that (i) 1/ f(alpha) decay is universally observed in the power spectra of all 24 chromosomes, and (ii) the exponent alpha approximately 1 extends to about 10(7) bases, one order of magnitude longer than has previously been observed. We further find that (iii) almost all human chromosomes exhibit a crossover from alpha(1) approximately 1 (1/ f (alpha(1))) at lower frequency to alpha(2) <1 (1/ f (alpha(2))) at higher frequency, typically occurring at around 30,000-100,000 bases, while (iv) the crossover in this frequency range is virtually absent in human chromosome 22. In addition to the universal 1/ f(alpha) noise in power spectra, we find (v) several lines of evidence for chromosome-specific correlation structures, including a 500,000 base long oscillation in human chromosome 21. The universal 1/ f(alpha) spectrum in the human genome is further substantiated by a resistance to reduction in variance of guanine and cytosine content when the window size is increased.
Identification of a novel zinc finger protein gene (ZNF298) in the GAP2 of human chromosome 21q.	We have isolated a novel zinc finger protein gene, designated ZNF298, as a candidate gene for a particular phenotype of Down syndrome or bipolar affective disorder (BPAD) which maps to human chromosome 21q22.3. ZNF298 gene consists of 25 exons spanning approximately 80kb in a direction from the telomere to centromere. There are four kinds of transcripts that harbor three types of 3' UTR. These four transcripts (ZNF298a, ZNF298b, ZNF298c, and ZNF298d) contain putative open reading frames encoding 1178, 1198, 555, and 515 amino acids, respectively. ZNF298 gene was ubiquitously expressed in various tissues at very low level. The protein motif analysis revealed that ZNF298 proteins contain a SET [Su(var)3-9, Enhancer-of-zeste, Trithorax] domain, multiple C2H2-type zinc finger (ZnF_C2H2) domains, several nuclear localization signals (NLSs), and PEST sequences. Nuclear localization of ZNF298 protein was confirmed by transfection of expression vector of GFP-tagged protein into two human cell lines. Interestingly, this gene crosses over a clone gap (GAP2) remaining in the band 21q22.3. We obtained the DNA fragments corresponding to GAP2 using ZNF298 cDNA sequence as anchor primers for PCR and determined its genomic DNA sequence.
Magnetically assisted DNA assays: high selectivity using conjugated polymers for amplified fluorescent transduction.	We report a strategy for conjugated polymer (CP)-based optical DNA detection with improved selectivity. The high sensitivity of CP-based biosensors arises from light harvesting by the CP and the related amplified fluorescent signal transduction. We demonstrate that the use of magnetic microparticles significantly improves the selectivity of this class of DNA sensors. Compared with previously reported DNA sensors with CP amplification, this novel sensing strategy displays excellent discrimination against non-cognate DNA in the presence of a protein mixture or even human serum. We also demonstrate that the magnetically assisted DNA sensor can conveniently identify even a single-nucleotide mismatch in the target sequence.
A molecular gram stain using broad range PCR and pyrosequencing technology: a potentially useful tool for diagnosing orthopaedic infections.	The bacteria associated with orthopaedic infections are usually common gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria. This fundamental grouping of bacteria is a necessary first step in the selection of appropriate antibiotics. Since polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is more rapid and may be more sensitive than culture, we developed a postamplification pyrosequencing method to subcategorize bacteria based on a few nucleotide polymorphisms in the 16S rRNA gene. We validated this method using well-characterized strains of bacteria and applied it to specimens from spinal surgery cases with suspected infections. Lysates of 114 bacteria including 75 species were created following standard cultivation to obtain DNA. The DNA was amplified by a broad-range real-time PCR. The amplicons were evaluated by pyrosequencing and were classified as gram-positive, gram-negative, or acid-fast bacilli based on the first three to five nucleotides sequenced. In addition, clinical cases of suspected infection were obtained from spinal surgery. The results of the "molecular Gram stain" were compared with the results of traditional Gram stain and culture. The lysates of 107 (93.9%) of the bacteria extracts tested were appropriately categorized as gram-positive and gram-negative or as acid-fast bacilli on the basis of this assay. The sensitivity and specificity of this assay were 100% and 97.4% for gram-positive and 88.3% and 100% for gram-negative isolates. All of the five clinical samples were appropriately categorized as containing gram-positive or gram-negative bacteria with this assay. This study demonstrates that high sensitivity and specificity of a molecular gram stain may be achieved using broad-range real-time PCR and pyrosequencing.
Templated metal catalysis for single nucleotide specific DNA sequence detection.	A catalytic DNA-templated reaction of hydrolysis of an ester group in an N-modified peptide nucleic acid, which is activated by a Cu2+ complex-PNA, has been discovered and optimized. Both the ester-containing PNA and the metal complex PNA bind neighboring sites on a template DNA. This brings the reacting groups (the ester and the Cu2+ complex) in proximity to each other and accelerates the hydrolysis of the ester approximately 500 times in comparison with its hydrolysis in the absence of the template. The hydrolysis reaction provides >10(2)-fold kinetic discrimination between DNAs that are different from each other at a single nucleotide position. Natural enzyme T4 DNA ligase is slightly less selective. On the basis of this reaction a fully homogeneous and sensitive assay for sequence-specific DNA detection has been developed (10 fmol DNA). Identification of one of four DNAs (variation at one position) can be done in a single experiment. Since the Cu2+ ion is tightly bound in an associate containing the ester PNA, the metal complex PNA, and the template DNA, application of this method in buffers containing other Cu2+-binding ligands, e.g., PCR buffer and physiological buffer, is possible.
Prevalence of quadruplexes in the human genome.	Guanine-rich DNA sequences of a particular form have the ability to fold into four-stranded structures called G-quadruplexes. In this paper, we present a working rule to predict which primary sequences can form this structure, and describe a search algorithm to identify such sequences in genomic DNA. We count the number of quadruplexes found in the human genome and compare that with the figure predicted by modelling DNA as a Bernoulli stream or as a Markov chain, using windows of various sizes. We demonstrate that the distribution of loop lengths is significantly different from what would be expected in a random case, providing an indication of the number of potentially relevant quadruplex-forming sequences. In particular, we show that there is a significant repression of quadruplexes in the coding strand of exonic regions, which suggests that quadruplex-forming patterns are disfavoured in sequences that will form RNA.
Analysis of a paternity case in which the alleged father was deceased: single locus mismatch]	We performed a paternity test without the alleged father, who was deceased, and we found a mismatch in one of the alleles of the autosomal short tandem repeat (STR) locus D3S1358 in the illegitimate daughter. DNA genotypes of the dead alleged father were estimated from the DNA genotypes of his wife and their four children. The ABO genotype, the DXS10011 locus and the calculations using the 12 STR loci and the D1S80 locus, but not the STR locus D3S1358 suggested that there was a high probability that the dead alleged father was in fact the actual biological father. The genotype of locus D3S1358 of the dead alleged father, the illegitimate daughter's mother and the illegitimate daughter was 15 / 17, 15 / 17 and 15 / 18, respectively. PCR and sequencing after TA cloning of allele 17 of one of the children who had only a homozygote of allele 17, of allele 17 of the illegitimate daughter's mother and of allele 18 of the illegitimate daughter revealed that allele 18 which was considered to be a mutated allele had one more repeat of (GATA) within the first repeat region.
Allele-specific germ cell epimutation in the spacer promoter of the 45S ribosomal RNA gene after Cr(III) exposure.	Paternal exposure of mice to Cr(III) causes increased tumor risk in offspring; an epigenetic mechanism has been hypothesized. Representational difference analysis of gene methylation in sperm revealed hypomethylation in the 45S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene after Cr(III) exposure, compared with controls. The most striking effects were seen in the rRNA spacer promoter, a region in the intergenic region of rRNA gene clusters that can influence transcription. Methylation of the rRNA spacer promoter has not been studied heretofore. Sperm DNAs from Cr(III)-treated and control mice were modified by the bisulfite method followed by PCR amplification of the spacer promoter, including 27 CpG sites. Cloning and dideoxy sequencing identified sequence variants (T or G at base -2214) in the spacer promoter. The T allele had less DNA methylation than the G allele in control mice (17 of 17 clones vs. 42 of 72 clones, P = 0.0004). In spite of diversity of sperm DNA methylation patterns, the DNA clones from Cr(III)-exposed mice had fewer methylated CpG sites, by an average of 19% (P < 0.0001). This difference was limited to the G allele. The pyrosequencing technique was applied to quantify the percentage of methylation directly from amplified PCR products. Strikingly, for nine CpG sites including the spacer promoter core region, hypomethylation was highly significant in the Cr(III)-treated group (paired T test, P < 0.0001). Thus, one allele of the 45S rRNA spacer promoter is hypomethylated in sperm germ cells after Cr(III) exposure. This epimutation may lead to increase of tumor risk in the offspring.
Footer: a quantitative comparative genomics method for efficient recognition of cis-regulatory elements.	The search for mammalian DNA regulatory regions poses a challenging problem in computational biology. The short length of the DNA patterns compared with the size of the promoter regions and the degeneracy of the patterns makes their identification difficult. One way to overcome this problem is to use evolutionary information to reduce the number of false-positive predictions. We developed a novel method for pattern identification that compares a pair of putative binding sites in two species (e.g., human and mouse) and assigns two probability scores based on the relative position of the sites in the promoter and their agreement with a known model of binding preferences. We tested the algorithm's ability to predict known binding sites on various promoters. Overall, it exhibited 83% sensitivity and the specificity was 72%, which is a clear improvement over existing methods. Our algorithm also successfully predicted two novel NF-kappaB binding sites in the promoter region of the mouse autotaxin gene (ATX, ENPP2), which we were able to verify by using chromatin immunoprecipitation assay coupled with quantitative real-time PCR.
Discovering functional transcription-factor combinations in the human cell cycle.	With the completion of full genome sequences and advancement in high-throughput technologies, in silico methods have been successfully used to integrate diverse data sources toward unraveling the combinatorial nature of transcriptional regulation. So far, almost all of these studies are restricted to lower eukaryotes such as budding yeast. We describe here a computational search for functional transcription-factor (TF) combinations using phylogenetically conserved sequences and microarray-based expression data. Taking into account both orientational and positional constraints, we investigated the overrepresentation of binding sites in the vicinity of one another and whether these combinations result in more coherent expression profiles. Without any prior biological knowledge, the search led to the discovery of several experimentally established TF associations, as well as some novel ones. In particular, we identified a regulatory module controlling cell cycle-dependent transcription of G2-M genes and expanded its functional generality. We also detected many homotypic combinations, supporting the importance of binding-site density in transcriptional regulation of higher eukaryotes.
Discovering regulatory binding-site modules using rule-based learning.	Transcription factors regulate expression by binding selectively to sequence sites in cis-regulatory regions of genes. It is therefore reasonable to assume that genes regulated by the same transcription factors should all contain the corresponding binding sites in their regulatory regions and exhibit similar expression profiles as measured by, for example, microarray technology. We have used this assumption to analyze genome-wide yeast binding-site and microarray expression data to reveal the combinatorial nature of gene regulation. We obtained IF-THEN rules linking binding-site combinations (binding-site modules) to genes with particular expression profiles, and thereby provided testable hypotheses on the combinatorial coregulation of gene expression. We showed that genes associated with such rules have a significantly higher probability of being bound by the same transcription factors, as indicated by a genome-wide location analysis, than genes associated with only common binding sites or similar expression. Furthermore, we also found that such genes were significantly more often biologically related in terms of Gene Ontology annotations than genes only associated with common binding sites or similar expression. We analyzed expression data collected under different sets of stress conditions and found many binding-site modules that are conserved over several of these condition sets, as well as modules that are specific to particular biological responses. Our results on the reoccurrence of binding sites in different modules provide specific data on how binding sites may be combined to allow a large number of expression outcomes using relatively few transcription factors.
Genome-wide prediction of imprinted murine genes.	Imprinted genes are epigenetically modified genes whose expression is determined according to their parent of origin. They are involved in embryonic development, and imprinting dysregulation is linked to cancer, obesity, diabetes, and behavioral disorders such as autism and bipolar disease. Herein, we train a statistical model based on DNA sequence characteristics that not only identifies potentially imprinted genes, but also predicts the parental allele from which they are expressed. Of 23,788 annotated autosomal mouse genes, our model identifies 600 (2.5%) to be potentially imprinted, 64% of which are predicted to exhibit maternal expression. These predictions allowed for the identification of putative candidate genes for complex conditions where parent-of-origin effects are involved, including Alzheimer disease, autism, bipolar disorder, diabetes, male sexual orientation, obesity, and schizophrenia. We observe that the number, type, and relative orientation of repeated elements flanking a gene are particularly important in predicting whether a gene is imprinted.
Forensic casework analysis using the HVI/HVII mtDNA linear array assay.	The mitochondrial hypervariable regions I and II have proven to be a useful target for analysis of forensic materials, in which the amount of DNA is limited or highly degraded. Conventional mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequencing can be time-consuming and expensive, limitations that can be minimized using a faster and less expensive typing assay. We have evaluated the exclusion capacity of the linear array mtDNA HVI/HVII region-sequence typing assay (Roche Applied Science) in 16 forensic cases comprising 90 samples. Using the HVI/HVII mtDNA linear array, 56% of the samples were excluded and thus less than half of the samples require further sequencing due to a match or inconclusive results. Of all the samples that were excluded by sequence analysis, 79% could be excluded using the HVI/HVII linear array alone. Using the HVI/HVII mtDNA linear array assay, we demonstrate the potential to decrease sequencing efforts substantially and thereby reduce the cost and the turn-around time in casework analysis.
mtDNA investigations after differential lysis.	In order to gain information regarding the ethnic origin of an unknown offender in a murder case it was necessary to sequence the HV1 and 2 regions of the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). The only evidentiary material that could be linked to the suspect was DNA, extracted from spermatozoa after differential lysis. The observed mtDNA sequences were identical to the sequences of the victim. Therefore, we had to check if this was a coincidence or the result of a technical limitation of the testing procedure. Subsequently, we performed a systematic study. In cases with complete separation of sperm and female cells it wasn't possible to obtain a mtDNA sequence for the sperm fraction. This phenomena is based on the loss of the sperm's flagellum and mid-piece during the first lysis step and a concomitant loss of the sperm's mitochondria. In our murder case, a minor carry-over of female cells to the sperm fraction was responsible for the sequencing result.
Sequence determination of nucleic acids containing 5-methylisocytosine and isoguanine: identification and insight into polymerase replication of the non-natural nucleobases.	Nucleobase analogs 5-methylisocytosine ((Me)isoC) and isoguanine (isoG) form a non-natural base pair in duplex nucleic acids with base pairing specificity orthogonal to the natural nucleobase pairs. Sequencing reactions were conducted with oligodeoxyribonucleotides (ODNs) containing d(Me)isoC and disoG using modified pyrosequencing and dye terminator methods. Modified dye terminator sequencing was generally useful for the sequence identification of ODNs containing the non-natural nucleobases. The two sequencing methods were also used to monitor nucleotide incorporation and subsequent extension by Family A polymerases used in the sequencing methods with a six-nucleobase system that includes d(Me)isoC and disoG. Nucleic acids containing the six-nucleobase system could be replicated well, but not as well as natural nucleic acids, especially in regions of high d(Me)isoC-disoG content. Challenges in replication with d(Me)isoC-disoG are consistent with nucleobase tautomerism in the insertion step and disrupted minor groove nucleobase pair-polymerase contacts in subsequent extension.
Typing class I HLA-A gene using a nested PCR-RFLP procedure.	In order to detect several new HLA-A class I alleles that have been described since 1998, the original PCR-RFLP method developed to identify the 78 alleles recognized at that time at high resolution level was adapted by us for low and medium resolution levels using a nested PCR-RFLP approach. The results obtained from blood samples of 23 subjects using both the PCR-RFLP method and a commercial kit (MicroSSP1A, One Lambda Inc.) showed an agreement higher than 95%. The PCR-RFLP adapted method was effective in low and medium resolution histocompatibility evaluations.
Sequence-based typing of the HLA-A10/A19 group and confirmation of a pseudogene coamplified with A*3401.	The strategy for sequencing human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A was based on separate amplification of exons 2 and 3, followed by forward and reverse heterozygous sequencing of the alleles. Validation of the method was obtained by sequencing 11 individuals carrying alleles from all different HLA-A allele groups, except *43. All alleles could be correctly identified except A*3401. Unexpected polymorphic positions were identified in exon 3, even in individuals homozygous for A*3401. In addition, the pseudogene HLA-COQ or HLA-DEL linked to A*3401 was coamplified and sequenced. The problem was solved by using different amplification primers for exon 3 with mismatches for the two pseudogenes. A total of 252 unrelated individuals with at least one allele belonging to the A10 or A19 group were typed for HLA-A by this strategy. Ten different alleles were identified in the A10 group and 14 in the A19 group. As second allele a further 30 different subtypes from all different groups were sequenced. In 21 individuals, sequencing exon 1 was necessary to distinguish A*7401 from A*7402. The sequencing strategy, with separate amplification of the exons, has proven to be a robust method, resulting in reliable and efficient high-resolution HLA-A typing.
Sequencing of the intergenic 16S-23S rRNA spacer (ITS) region of Mollicutes species and their identification using microarray-based assay and DNA sequencing.	We have completed sequencing the 16S-23S rRNA intergenic transcribed spacer (ITS) region of most known Mycoplasma , Acholeplasma , Ureaplasma , Mesoplasma , and Spiroplasma species. Analysis of the sequence data revealed a significant interspecies variability and low intraspecies polymorphism of the ITS region among Mollicutes . This finding enabled the application of a combined polymerase chain reaction-microarray technology for identifying Mollicutes species. The microarray included individual species-specific oligonucleotide probes for characterizing human Mollicutes species and other species known to be common cell line contaminants. Evaluation of the microarray was conducted using multiple, previously characterized, Mollicutes species. The microarray analysis of the samples used demonstrated a highly specific assay, which is capable of rapid and accurate discrimination among Mollicutes species.
TF Target Mapper: a BLAST search tool for the identification of Transcription Factor target genes.	In the current era of high throughput genomics a major challenge is the genome-wide identification of target genes for specific transcription factors. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) allows the isolation of in vivo binding sites of transcription factors and provides a powerful tool for examining gene regulation. Crosslinked chromatin is immunoprecipitated with antibodies against specific transcription factors, thus enriching for sequences bound in vivo by these factors in the immunoprecipitated DNA. Cloning and sequencing the immunoprecipitated sequences allows identification of transcription factor target genes. Routinely, thousands of such sequenced clones are used in BLAST searches to map their exact location in the genome and the genes located in the vicinity. These genes represent potential targets of the transcription factor of interest. Such bioinformatics analysis is very laborious if performed manually and for this reason there is a need for developing bioinformatic tools to automate and facilitate it.
More robust detection of motifs in coexpressed genes by using phylogenetic information.	Several motif detection algorithms have been developed to discover overrepresented motifs in sets of coexpressed genes. However, in a noisy gene list, the number of genes containing the motif versus the number lacking the motif might not be sufficiently high to allow detection by classical motif detection tools. To still recover motifs which are not significantly enriched but still present, we developed a procedure in which we use phylogenetic footprinting to first delineate all potential motifs in each gene. Then we mutually compare all detected motifs and identify the ones that are shared by at least a few genes in the data set as potential candidates.
AtRTPrimer: database for Arabidopsis genome-wide homogeneous and specific RT-PCR primer-pairs.	Primer design is a critical step in all types of RT-PCR methods to ensure specificity and efficiency of a target amplicon. However, most traditional primer design programs suggest primers on a single template of limited genetic complexity. To provide researchers with a sufficient number of pre-designed specific RT-PCR primer pairs for whole genes in Arabidopsis, we aimed to construct a genome-wide primer-pair database.
A phylogenomic gene cluster resource: the Phylogenetically Inferred Groups (PhIGs) database.	We present here the PhIGs database, a phylogenomic resource for sequenced genomes. Although many methods exist for clustering gene families, very few attempt to create truly orthologous clusters sharing descent from a single ancestral gene across a range of evolutionary depths. Although these non-phylogenetic gene family clusters have been used broadly for gene annotation, errors are known to be introduced by the artifactual association of slowly evolving paralogs and lack of annotation for those more rapidly evolving. A full phylogenetic framework is necessary for accurate inference of function and for many studies that address pattern and mechanism of the evolution of the genome. The automated generation of evolutionary gene clusters, creation of gene trees, determination of orthology and paralogy relationships, and the correlation of this information with gene annotations, expression information, and genomic context is an important resource to the scientific community.
Status of clinical gene sequencing data reporting and associated risks for information loss.	Clinical gene sequencing is growing in importance and cost-effectiveness. In the past two years, the number of genes associated with disease has grown by roughly 25%. Knowledge of genetic variations will soon guide drug selection and dosages, predict risks from toxin exposures, and inform nutritional needs. Despite the significance of sequencing, methods for reporting results are problematic. Frequent use of paper and infrequent use of naming standards impede data exchange and make incorporation into the electronic medical record difficult. Reports often describe only variations found, rather than all data (all patient bases sequenced). Also, reports frequently do not describe reference data used to define variations. These practices create risks for loss of both data and information. Standardized electronic reporting of all data (all bases sequenced and all reference data) and electronic record systems capable of storing these results would both prevent data loss and simplify the preservation of information those data provide.
A coalescent-based estimator of admixture from DNA sequences.	A variety of estimators have been developed to use genetic marker information in inferring the admixture proportions (parental contributions) of a hybrid population. The majority of these estimators used allele frequency data, ignored molecular information that is available in markers such as microsatellites and DNA sequences, and assumed that mutations are absent since the admixture event. As a result, these estimators may fail to deliver an estimate or give rather poor estimates when admixture is ancient and thus mutations are not negligible. A previous molecular estimator based its inference of admixture proportions on the average coalescent times between pairs of genes taken from within and between populations. In this article I propose an estimator that considers the entire genealogy of all of the sampled genes and infers admixture proportions from the numbers of segregating sites in DNA sequence samples. By considering the genealogy of all sequences rather than pairs of sequences, this new estimator also allows the joint estimation of other interesting parameters in the admixture model, such as admixture time, divergence time, population size, and mutation rate. Comparative analyses of simulated data indicate that the new coalescent estimator generally yields better estimates of admixture proportions than the previous molecular estimator, especially when the parental populations are not highly differentiated. It also gives reasonably accurate estimates of other admixture parameters. A human mtDNA sequence data set was analyzed to demonstrate the method, and the analysis results are discussed and compared with those from previous studies.
Rapid identification of Enterobacteriaceae by sequencing DNA gyrase subunit B encoding gene.	Real-time polymerase chain reaction and sequencing were used to characterize a 506-bp-long DNA fragment internal to the gyrB gene (gyrBint). The sequences obtained from 32 Enterobacteriaceae-type strains and those available in the Genbank nucleotide sequence database (n = 24) were used as a database to identify 240 clinical enterobacteria isolates. Sequence analysis of the gyrBint fragment of 240 strains showed that gyrBint constitutes a discriminative target sequence to differentiate between Enterobacteriaceae species. Comparison of these identifications with those obtained by phenotypic methods (Vitek 1 system and/or Rapid ID 32E; bioMrieux, Marcy l'Etoile, France) revealed discrepancies essentially with genera Citrobacter and Enterobacter. Most of the strains identified as Enterobacter cloacae by phenotypic methods were identified as Enterobacter hormaechei strains by gyrBint sequencing. The direct sequencing of gyrBint would be useful as a complementary tool in the identification of clinical Enterobacteriaceae isolates.
Meta-analysis discovery of tissue-specific DNA sequence motifs from mammalian gene expression data.	A key step in the regulation of gene expression is the sequence-specific binding of transcription factors (TFs) to their DNA recognition sites. However, elucidating TF binding site (TFBS) motifs in higher eukaryotes has been challenging, even when employing cross-species sequence conservation. We hypothesized that for human and mouse, many orthologous genes expressed in a similarly tissue-specific manner in both human and mouse gene expression data, are likely to be co-regulated by orthologous TFs that bind to DNA sequence motifs present within noncoding sequence conserved between these genomes.
Design of microarray probes for virus identification and detection of emerging viruses at the genus level.	Most virus detection methods are geared towards the detection of specific single viruses or just a few known targets, and lack the capability to uncover the novel viruses that cause emerging viral infections. To address this issue, we developed a computational method that identifies the conserved viral sequences at the genus level for all viral genomes available in GenBank, and established a virus probe library. The virus probes are used not only to identify known viruses but also for discerning the genera of emerging or uncharacterized ones.
Method for identifying transcription factor binding sites in yeast.	Identifying transcription factor binding sites (TFBSs) is helpful for understanding the mechanism of transcriptional regulation. The abundance and the diversity of genomic data provide an excellent opportunity for identifying TFBSs. Developing methods to integrate various types of data has become a major trend in this pursuit.
HoSeqI: automated homologous sequence identification in gene family databases.	We present a web service allowing to automatically assign sequences to homologous gene families from a set of databases. After identification of the most similar gene family to the query sequence, this sequence is added to the whole alignment and the phylogenetic tree of the family is rebuilt. Thus, the phylogenetic position of the query sequence in its gene family can be easily identified.
Combo: a whole genome comparative browser.	Combo is a comparative genome browser that provides a dynamic view of whole genome alignments along with their associated annotations. Combo provides two different visualization perspectives. The perpendicular (dot plot) view provides a dot plot of genome alignments synchronized with a display of genome annotations along each axis. The parallel view displays two genome annotations horizontally, synchronized through a panel displaying local alignments as trapezoids. Users can zoom to any resolution, from whole chromosomes to individual bases. They can select, highlight and view detailed information from specific alignments and annotations. Combo is an organism agnostic and can import data from a variety of file formats.
TRFMA: a web-based tool for terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis based on molecular weight.	TRFMA provides a Web environment for analyzing T-RFLP results based on molecular weights of the fragments, rather than the numbers of nucleotides, to increase accuracy. The 16S rRNA data are saved as an XML file containing around 650 sequences (light version) and a MySQL database containing around 50 000 sequences (full version), which are connected to Web server via PHP5 and manipulated on an Internet browser.
Automatic generation of gene finders for eukaryotic species.	The number of sequenced eukaryotic genomes is rapidly increasing. This means that over time it will be hard to keep supplying customised gene finders for each genome. This calls for procedures to automatically generate species-specific gene finders and to re-train them as the quantity and quality of reliable gene annotation grows.
Spatial normalization of array-CGH data.	Array-based comparative genomic hybridization (array-CGH) is a recently developed technique for analyzing changes in DNA copy number. As in all microarray analyses, normalization is required to correct for experimental artifacts while preserving the true biological signal. We investigated various sources of systematic variation in array-CGH data and identified two distinct types of spatial effect of no biological relevance as the predominant experimental artifacts: continuous spatial gradients and local spatial bias. Local spatial bias affects a large proportion of arrays, and has not previously been considered in array-CGH experiments.
Phylogeny based discovery of regulatory elements.	Algorithms that locate evolutionarily conserved sequences have become powerful tools for finding functional DNA elements, including transcription factor binding sites; however, most methods do not take advantage of an explicit model for the constrained evolution of functional DNA sequences.
NETGEN: generating phylogenetic networks with diploid hybrids.	NetGen is an event-driven simulator that creates phylogenetic networks by extending the birth-death model to include diploid hybridizations. DNA sequences are evolved in conjunction with the topology, enabling hybridization decisions to be based on contemporary evolutionary distances. NetGen supports variable rate lineages, root sequence specification, outgroup generation and many other options. This note describes the NetGen application and proposes an extension of the Newick format to accommodate phylogenetic networks.
Improving the specificity of high-throughput ortholog prediction.	Orthologs (genes that have diverged after a speciation event) tend to have similar function, and so their prediction has become an important component of comparative genomics and genome annotation. The gold standard phylogenetic analysis approach of comparing available organismal phylogeny to gene phylogeny is not easily automated for genome-wide analysis; therefore, ortholog prediction for large genome-scale datasets is typically performed using a reciprocal-best-BLAST-hits (RBH) approach. One problem with RBH is that it will incorrectly predict a paralog as an ortholog when incomplete genome sequences or gene loss is involved. In addition, there is an increasing interest in identifying orthologs most likely to have retained similar function.
Gene Designer: a synthetic biology tool for constructing artificial DNA segments.	Direct synthesis of genes is rapidly becoming the most efficient way to make functional genetic constructs and enables applications such as codon optimization, RNAi resistant genes and protein engineering. Here we introduce a software tool that drastically facilitates the design of synthetic genes.
BLISS: binding site level identification of shared signal-modules in DNA regulatory sequences.	Regulatory modules are segments of the DNA that control particular aspects of gene expression. Their identification is therefore of great importance to the field of molecular genetics. Each module is composed of a distinct set of binding sites for specific transcription factors. Since experimental identification of regulatory modules is an arduous process, accurate computational techniques that supplement this process can be very beneficial. Functional modules are under selective pressure to be evolutionarily conserved. Most current approaches therefore attempt to detect conserved regulatory modules through similarity comparisons at the DNA sequence level. However, some regulatory modules, despite the conservation of their responsible binding sites, are embedded in sequences that have little overall similarity.
Evolutionary simulations to detect functional lineage-specific genes.	Supporting the functionality of recent duplicate gene copies is usually difficult, owing to high sequence similarity between duplicate counterparts and shallow phylogenies, which hamper both the statistical and experimental inference.
tuple_plot: fast pairwise nucleotide sequence comparison with noise suppression.	The program tuple_plot identifies and visualizes local similarities between two genomic sequences, typically 100 kb or longer, by applying the well-known dotplot principle. A dictionary of sequence words built from the input sequences serves to construct a task-specific expectancy model that is used to attribute significance values to pairwise word hits. The dictionary-based approach allows fast computation, the computation time scaling to O(N log N), depending on the size of the input sequences. The proposed scoring scheme appreciably increases the signal-to-noise ratio and may help to improve other word-based sequence comparison approaches.
A model-based approach to selection of tag SNPs.	Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) are the most common type of polymorphisms found in the human genome. Effective genetic association studies require the identification of sets of tag SNPs that capture as much haplotype information as possible. Tag SNP selection is analogous to the problem of data compression in information theory. According to Shannon's framework, the optimal tag set maximizes the entropy of the tag SNPs subject to constraints on the number of SNPs. This approach requires an appropriate probabilistic model. Compared to simple measures of Linkage Disequilibrium (LD), a good model of haplotype sequences can more accurately account for LD structure. It also provides a machinery for the prediction of tagged SNPs and thereby to assess the performances of tag sets through their ability to predict larger SNP sets.
Human papillomavirus type 16 variant assignment by pyrosequencing.	Polymorphisms in human papillomavirus type 16 (HPV16) result in variants from the prototype sequence which can be designated according to geographic distribution and are broadly classified as European (E), African (Af), Asian (As), or Asian-American (AA). Detection of variants has been used to distinguish persistent HPV16 infection from re-infection in natural history studies, and variants have been associated with an increased risk of cervical disease in some populations. Variant determination usually relies on conventional Sanger sequencing of regions of the viral genome, with the major variant group assignments requiring the sequencing of only seven polymorphic sites spread over a 242-bp region of the E6 gene. We applied pyrosequencing to facilitate rapid sequencing and enable the simultaneous detection of multiple variants. A single-stranded template for pyrosequencing was prepared by amplifying a 314-bp fragment (nt 75-388) with a biotin at the 5'-end of the reverse primer to facilitate strand separation and purification. Polymorphisms at the nucleotide sites 109, 131, 132, 143, 145, 178 and 350 were determined in three separate sequencing reactions, one of which was a multiplex format. Pyrosequencing of 97 HPV16-positive exfoliated cervical samples confirmed the Sanger sequencing results; however pyrosequencing identified additional variants in several samples containing mixed variants.
Identification of PML-RARA rearrangement by RT-PCR and sequencing in an acute promyelocytic leukemia without t(15;17) on G-banding and FISH.	Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) is characterized by a reciprocal translocation, t(15;17) (q22;q12), resulting in fusion of the genes promyelocytic leukemia (PML) and retinoic acid receptor alpha (RARA). With conventional cytogenetic methods, these translocations are detected in about 70-90% of patients, with most of the negative results due to technical problems or cryptic variants. Those masked PML-RARA fusions can be identified by molecular analyses such as reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). We have studied a patient showing morphological, cytochemical, and immunophenotypic features of hypergranular APL with trisomy 8 as a sole anomaly. t(15;17) was not evident on FISH tests, while RT-PCR and cDNA sequencing revealed the presence of PML-RARA transcripts.
PTreeRec: Phylogenetic Tree Reconstruction based on genome BLAST distance.	Phylogenetic Tree Reconstruction (PTreeRec) is a web-based tool for automatic phylogeny inferences from whole-genome sequences, which accepts files of DNA sequences in the FASTA format and allows users to save the output tree file, and displays the inferred tree through an applet in a web browser. PTreeRec involves three basic steps. First, regions of maximal segment pairs (MSPs) based on an all-against-all pairwise comparison of genomes are located. Second, a distance matrix is calculated from MSP scores or coverage. Finally, a phylogenetic tree is reconstructed by the neighbor-joining method.
Coding sequence and intron-exon junctions of the c-myb gene are intact in the chronic phase and blast crisis stages of chronic myeloid leukemia patients.	The c-myb gene encodes a transcription factor required for proliferation, differentiation and survival of normal and leukemic hematopoietic cells. c-Myb has a longer half-life in BCR/ABL-expressing than in normal cells, a feature which depends, in part, on PI-3K/Akt-dependent regulation of proteins interacting with the leucine zipper/negative regulatory region of c-Myb. Thus, we asked whether the stability of c-Myb in leukemic cells might be enhanced by mutations interfering with its degradation. We analyzed the c-myb gene in 133 chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) patients in chronic phase and/or blast crisis by denaturing-high performance liquid chromatography (D-HPLC) and sequence analysis of PCR products corresponding to the entire coding sequence and each exon-intron boundary. No mutations were found. We found four single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and identified an alternatively spliced transcript lacking exon 5, but SNPs frequency and expression of the alternatively spliced transcript were identical in normal and CML cells. Thus, the enhanced stability of c-Myb in CML blast crisis cells and perhaps in other types of leukemia is not caused by a genetic mechanism.
A Sanger/pyrosequencing hybrid approach for the generation of high-quality draft assemblies of marine microbial genomes.	Since its introduction a decade ago, whole-genome shotgun sequencing (WGS) has been the main approach for producing cost-effective and high-quality genome sequence data. Until now, the Sanger sequencing technology that has served as a platform for WGS has not been truly challenged by emerging technologies. The recent introduction of the pyrosequencing-based 454 sequencing platform (454 Life Sciences, Branford, CT) offers a very promising sequencing technology alternative for incorporation in WGS. In this study, we evaluated the utility and cost-effectiveness of a hybrid sequencing approach using 3730xl Sanger data and 454 data to generate higher-quality lower-cost assemblies of microbial genomes compared to current Sanger sequencing strategies alone.
Motif discoveries in unaligned molecular sequences using self-organizing neural networks.	In this paper, we study the problem of motif discoveries in unaligned DNA and protein sequences. The problem of motif identification in DNA and protein sequences has been studied for many years in the literature. Major hurdles at this point include computational complexity and reliability of the search algorithms. We propose a self-organizing neural network structure for solving the problem of motif identification in DNA and protein sequences. Our network contains several layers, with each layer performing classifications at different levels. The top layer divides the input space into a small number of regions and the bottom layer classifies all input patterns into motifs and nonmotif patterns. Depending on the number of input patterns to be classified, several layers between the top layer and the bottom layer are needed to perform intermediate classifications. We maintain a low computational complexity through the use of the layered structure so that each pattern's classification is performed with respect to a small subspace of the whole input space. Our self-organizing neural network will grow as needed (e.g., when more motif patterns are classified). It will give the same amount of attention to each input pattern and will not omit any potential motif patterns. Finally, simulation results show that our algorithm outperforms existing algorithms in certain aspects. In particular, simulation results show that our algorithm can identify motifs with more mutations than existing algorithms. Our algorithm works well for long DNA sequences as well.
Identification of single-point mutations in mycobacterial 16S rRNA sequences by confocal single-molecule fluorescence spectroscopy.	We demonstrate the specific identification of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) responsible for rifampicin resistance of Mycobacterium tuberculosis applying fluorescently labeled DNA-hairpin structures (smart probes) in combination with single-molecule fluorescence spectroscopy. Smart probes are singly labeled hairpin-shaped oligonucleotides bearing a fluorescent dye at the 5' end that is quenched by guanosine residues in the complementary stem. Upon hybridization to target sequences, a conformational change occurs, reflected in a strong increase in fluorescence intensity. An excess of unlabeled ('cold') oligonucleotides was used to prevent the formation of secondary structures in the target sequence and thus facilitates hybridization of smart probes. Applying standard ensemble fluorescence spectroscopy we demonstrate the identification of SNPs in PCR amplicons of mycobacterial rpoB gene fragments with a detection sensitivity of 10(-8) M. To increase the detection sensitivity, confocal fluorescence microscopy was used to observe fluorescence bursts of individual smart probes freely diffusing through the detection volume. By measuring burst size, burst duration and fluorescence lifetime for each fluorescence burst the discrimination accuracy between closed and open (hybridized) smart probes could be substantially increased. The developed technique enables the identification of SNPs in 10(-11) M solutions of PCR amplicons from M.tuberculosis in only 100 s.
Biological data warehousing system for identifying transcriptional regulatory sites from gene expressions of microarray data.	Identification of transcriptional regulatory sites plays an important role in the investigation of gene regulation. For this propose, we designed and implemented a data warehouse to integrate multiple heterogeneous biological data sources with data types such as text-file, XML, image, MySQL database model, and Oracle database model. The utility of the biological data warehouse in predicting transcriptional regulatory sites of coregulated genes was explored using a synexpression group derived from a microarray study. Both of the binding sites of known transcription factors and predicted over-represented (OR) oligonucleotides were demonstrated for the gene group. The potential biological roles of both known nucleotides and one OR nucleotide were demonstrated using bioassays. Therefore, the results from the wet-lab experiments reinforce the power and utility of the data warehouse as an approach to the genome-wide search for important transcription regulatory elements that are the key to many complex biological systems.
Dense subgraph computation via stochastic search: application to detect transcriptional modules.	In a tri-partite biological network of transcription factors, their putative target genes, and the tissues in which the target genes are differentially expressed, a tightly inter-connected (dense) subgraph may reveal knowledge about tissue specific transcription regulation mediated by a specific set of transcription factors-a tissue-specific transcriptional module. This is just one context in which an efficient computation of dense subgraphs in a multi-partite graph is needed.
Statistical mechanical modeling of genome-wide transcription factor occupancy data by MatrixREDUCE.	Regulation of gene expression by a transcription factor requires physical interaction between the factor and the DNA, which can be described by a statistical mechanical model. Based on this model, we developed the MatrixREDUCE algorithm, which uses genome-wide occupancy data for a transcription factor (e.g. ChIP-chip) and associated nucleotide sequences to discover the sequence-specific binding affinity of the transcription factor. Advantages of our approach are that the information for all probes on the microarray is efficiently utilized because there is no need to delineate "bound" and "unbound" sequences, and that, unlike information content-based methods, it does not require a background sequence model.
MotifCut: regulatory motifs finding with maximum density subgraphs.	DNA motif finding is one of the core problems in computational biology, for which several probabilistic and discrete approaches have been developed. Most existing methods formulate motif finding as an intractable optimization problem and rely either on expectation maximization (EM) or on local heuristic searches. Another challenge is the choice of motif model: simpler models such as the position-specific scoring matrix (PSSM) impose biologically unrealistic assumptions such as independence of the motif positions, while more involved models are harder to parametrize and learn.
Context-specific independence mixture modeling for positional weight matrices.	A positional weight matrix (PWM) is a statistical representation of the binding pattern of a transcription factor estimated from known binding site sequences. Previous studies showed that for factors which bind to divergent binding sites, mixtures of multiple PWMs increase performance. However, estimating a conventional mixture distribution for each position will in many cases cause overfitting.
BNTagger: improved tagging SNP selection using Bayesian networks.	Genetic variation analysis holds much promise as a basis for disease-gene association. However, due to the tremendous number of candidate single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), there is a clear need to expedite genotyping by selecting and considering only a subset of all SNPs. This process is known as tagging SNP selection. Several methods for tagging SNP selection have been proposed, and have shown promising results. However, most of them rely on strong assumptions such as prior block-partitioning, bi-allelic SNPs, or a fixed number or location of tagging SNPs. We introduce BNTagger, a new method for tagging SNP selection, based on conditional independence among SNPs. Using the formalism of Bayesian networks (BNs), our system aims to select a subset of independent and highly predictive SNPs. Similar to previous prediction-based methods, we aim to maximize the prediction accuracy of tagging SNPs, but unlike them, we neither fix the number nor the location of predictive tagging SNPs, nor require SNPs to be bi-allelic. In addition, for newly-genotyped samples, BNTagger directly uses genotype data as input, while producing as output haplotype data of all SNPs. Using three public data sets, we compare the prediction performance of our method to that of three state-of-the-art tagging SNP selection methods. The results demonstrate that our method consistently improves upon previous methods in terms of prediction accuracy. Moreover, our method retains its good performance even when a very small number of tagging SNPs are used.
Comparative genomics reveals unusually long motifs in mammalian genomes.	The recent discovery of the first small modulatory RNA (smRNA) presents the challenge of finding other molecules of similar length and conservation level. Unlike short interfering RNA (siRNA) and micro-RNA (miRNA), effective computational and experimental screening methods are not currently known for this species of RNA molecule, and the discovery of the one known example was partly fortuitous because it happened to be complementary to a well-studied DNA binding motif (the Neuron Restrictive Silencer Element).
Finding novel genes in bacterial communities isolated from the environment.	Novel sequencing techniques can give access to organisms that are difficult to cultivate using conventional methods. When applied to environmental samples, the data generated has some drawbacks, e.g. short length of assembled contigs, in-frame stop codons and frame shifts. Unfortunately, current gene finders cannot circumvent these difficulties. At the same time, the automated prediction of genes is a prerequisite for the increasing amount of genomic sequences to ensure progress in metagenomics.
Interpreting anonymous DNA samples from mass disasters--probabilistic forensic inference using genetic markers.	The problem of identifying victims in a mass disaster using DNA fingerprints involves a scale of computation that requires efficient and accurate algorithms. In a typical scenario there are hundreds of samples taken from remains that must be matched to the pedigrees of the alleged victim's surviving relatives. Moreover the samples are often degraded due to heat and exposure. To develop a competent method for this type of forensic inference problem, the complicated quality issues of DNA typing need to be handled appropriately, the matches between every sample and every family must be considered, and the confidence of matches need to be provided.
Mutation parameters from DNA sequence data using graph theoretic measures on lineage trees.	B cells responding to antigenic stimulation can fine-tune their binding properties through a process of affinity maturation composed of somatic hypermutation, affinity-selection and clonal expansion. The mutation rate of the B cell receptor DNA sequence, and the effect of these mutations on affinity and specificity, are of critical importance for understanding immune and autoimmune processes. Unbiased estimates of these properties are currently lacking due to the short time-scales involved and the small numbers of sequences available.
Indel seeds for homology search.	We are interested in detecting homologous genomic DNA sequences with the goal of locating approximate inverted, interspersed, and tandem repeats. Standard search techniques start by detecting small matching parts, called seeds, between a query sequence and database sequences. Contiguous seed models have existed for many years. Recently, spaced seeds were shown to be more sensitive than contiguous seeds without increasing the random hit rate. To determine the superiority of one seed model over another, a model of homologous sequence alignment must be chosen. Previous studies evaluating spaced and contiguous seeds have assumed that matches and mismatches occur within these alignments, but not insertions and deletions (indels). This is perhaps appropriate when searching for protein coding sequences (<5% of the human genome), but is inappropriate when looking for repeats in the majority of genomic sequence where indels are common. In this paper, we assume a model of homologous sequence alignment which includes indels and we describe a new seed model, called indel seeds, which explicitly allows indels. We present a waiting time formula for computing the sensitivity of an indel seed and show that indel seeds significantly outperform contiguous and spaced seeds when homologies include indels. We discuss the practical aspect of using indel seeds and finally we present results from a search for inverted repeats in the dog genome using both indel and spaced seeds.
Efficient identification of DNA hybridization partners in a sequence database.	The specific hybridization of complementary DNA molecules underlies many widely used molecular biology assays, including the polymerase chain reaction and various types of microarray analysis. In order for such an assay to work well, the primer or probe must bind to its intended target, without also binding to additional sequences in the reaction mixture. For any given probe or primer, potential non-specific binding partners can be identified using state-of-the-art models of DNA binding stability. Unfortunately, these models rely on dynamic programming algorithms that are too slow to apply on a genomic scale.
Informative priors based on transcription factor structural class improve de novo motif discovery.	An important problem in molecular biology is to identify the locations at which a transcription factor (TF) binds to DNA, given a set of DNA sequences believed to be bound by that TF. In previous work, we showed that information in the DNA sequence of a binding site is sufficient to predict the structural class of the TF that binds it. In particular, this suggests that we can predict which locations in any DNA sequence are more likely to be bound by certain classes of TFs than others. Here, we argue that traditional methods for de novo motif finding can be significantly improved by adopting an informative prior probability that a TF binding site occurs at each sequence location. To demonstrate the utility of such an approach, we present priority, a powerful new de novo motif finding algorithm.
Apples to apples: improving the performance of motif finders and their significance analysis in the Twilight Zone.	Effective algorithms for finding relatively weak motifs are an important practical necessity while scanning long DNA sequences for regulatory elements. The success of such an algorithm hinges on the ability of its scoring function combined with a significance analysis test to discern real motifs from random noise.
Decoding non-unique oligonucleotide hybridization experiments of targets related by a phylogenetic tree.	The reliable identification of presence or absence of biological agents ("targets"), such as viruses or bacteria, is crucial for many applications from health care to biodiversity. If genomic sequences of targets are known, hybridization reactions between oligonucleotide probes and targets performed on suitable DNA microarrays will allow to infer presence or absence from the observed pattern of hybridization. Targets, for example all known strains of HIV, are often closely related and finding unique probes becomes impossible. The use of non-unique oligonucleotides with more advanced decoding techniques from statistical group testing allows to detect known targets with great success. Of great relevance, however, is the problem of identifying the presence of previously unknown targets or of targets that evolve rapidly.
Integrating copy number polymorphisms into array CGH analysis using a robust HMM.	Array comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) is a pervasive technique used to identify chromosomal aberrations in human diseases, including cancer. Aberrations are defined as regions of increased or decreased DNA copy number, relative to a normal sample. Accurately identifying the locations of these aberrations has many important medical applications. Unfortunately, the observed copy number changes are often corrupted by various sources of noise, making the boundaries hard to detect. One popular current technique uses hidden Markov models (HMMs) to divide the signal into regions of constant copy number called segments; a subsequent classification phase labels each segment as a gain, a loss or neutral. Unfortunately, standard HMMs are sensitive to outliers, causing over-segmentation, where segments erroneously span very short regions.
On counting position weight matrix matches in a sequence, with application to discriminative motif finding.	The position weight matrix (PWM) is a popular method to model transcription factor binding sites. A fundamental problem in cis-regulatory analysis is to "count" the occurrences of a PWM in a DNA sequence. We propose a novel probabilistic score to solve this problem of counting PWM occurrences. The proposed score has two important properties: (1) It gives appropriate weights to both strong and weak occurrences of the PWM, without using thresholds. (2) For any given PWM, this score can be computed while allowing for occurrences of other, a priori known PWMs, in a statistically sound framework. Additionally, the score is efficiently differentiable with respect to the PWM parameters, which has important consequences for designing search algorithms. The second problem we address is to find, ab initio, PWMs that have high counts in one set of sequences, and low counts in another. We develop a novel algorithm to solve this "discriminative motif-finding problem", using the proposed score for counting a PWM in the sequences. The algorithm is a local search technique that exploits derivative information on an objective function to enhance speed and performance. It is extensively tested on synthetic data, and shown to perform better than other discriminative as well as non-discriminative PWM finding algorithms. It is then applied to cis-regulatory modules involved in development of the fruitfly embryo, to elicit known and novel motifs. We finally use the algorithm on genes predictive of social behavior in the honey bee, and find interesting motifs.
ARTS: accurate recognition of transcription starts in human.	We develop new methods for finding transcription start sites (TSS) of RNA Polymerase II binding genes in genomic DNA sequences. Employing Support Vector Machines with advanced sequence kernels, we achieve drastically higher prediction accuracies than state-of-the-art methods.
Constructing near-perfect phylogenies with multiple homoplasy events.	We explore the problem of constructing near-perfect phylogenies on bi-allelic haplotypes, where the deviation from perfect phylogeny is entirely due to homoplasy events. We present polynomial-time algorithms for restricted versions of the problem. We show that these algorithms can be extended to genotype data, in which case the problem is called the near-perfect phylogeny haplotyping (NPPH) problem. We present a near-optimal algorithm for the H1-NPPH problem, which is to determine if a given set of genotypes admit a phylogeny with a single homoplasy event. The time-complexity of our algorithm for the H1-NPPH problem is O(m2(n + m)), where n is the number of genotypes and m is the number of SNP sites. This is a significant improvement over the earlier O(n4) algorithm. We also introduce generalized versions of the problem. The H(1, q)-NPPH problem is to determine if a given set of genotypes admit a phylogeny with q homoplasy events, so that all the homoplasy events occur in a single site. We present an O(m(q+1)(n + m)) algorithm for the H(1,q)-NPPH problem.
SNP Function Portal: a web database for exploring the function implication of SNP alleles.	Finding the potential functional significance of SNPs is a major bottleneck in understanding genome-wide SNP scanning results, as the related functional data are distributed across many different databases. The SNP Function Portal is designed to be a clearing house for all public domain SNP functional annotation data, as well as in-house functional annotations derived from different data sources. It currently contains SNP functional annotations in six major categories including genomic elements, transcription regulation, protein function, pathway, disease and population genetics. Besides extensive SNP functional annotations, the SNP Function Portal includes a powerful search engine that accepts different types of genetic markers as input and identifies all genetically related SNPs based on the HapMap Phase II data as well as the relationship of different markers to known genes. As a result, our system allows users to identify the potential biological impact of genetic markers and complex relationships among genetic markers and genes, and it greatly facilitates knowledge discovery in genome-wide SNP scanning experiments.
Comparative footprinting of DNA-binding proteins.	Comparative modelling is a computational method used to tackle a variety of problems in molecular biology and biotechnology. Traditionally it has been applied to model the structure of proteins on their own or bound to small ligands, although more recently it has also been used to model protein-protein interfaces. This work is the first to systematically analyze whether comparative models of protein-DNA complexes could be built and be useful for predicting DNA binding sites.
Automatic clustering of orthologs and inparalogs shared by multiple proteomes.	The complete sequencing of many genomes has made it possible to identify orthologous genes descending from a common ancestor. However, reconstruction of evolutionary history over long time periods faces many challenges due to gene duplications and losses. Identification of orthologous groups shared by multiple proteomes therefore becomes a clustering problem in which an optimal compromise between conflicting evidences needs to be found.
Massively parallel signature sequencing.	Massively parallel signature sequencing is an ultra-high throughput sequencing technology. It can simultaneously sequence millions of sequence tags, and, therefore, is ideal for whole genome analysis. When applied to expression profiling, it reveals almost every transcript in the sample and provides its accurate expression level. This chapter describes the technology and its application in establishing stem cell transcriptome databases.
The analysis of mitochondria and mitochondrial DNA in human embryonic stem cells.	As human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) undergo differentiation, they express genes characteristic of the lineage for which they are destined. However, fully differentiated individual cell types can be characterized by the number of mitochondria they possess and the copies of the mitochondrial genome per mitochondrion. These characteristics are indicative of a specific cell's requirement for adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and therefore cellular viability and function. Consequently, failure for an ESC to possess the full complement of mitochondria and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) could limit its final commitment to a particular fate. We describe a series of protocols that analyze the process of cellular mitochondrial and mtDNA differentiation during hESC differentiation. In addition, mtDNA transcription and replication are key events in cellular differentiation that require interaction between the nucleus and the mitochondrion. To this extent, we describe a series of protocols that analyze the initiation of these key events as hESCs progress from their undifferentiated state to the fully committed cell. Last, we describe real-time polymerase chain reaction protocols that allow both the identification of mtDNA copy number and determine whether mtDNA copy is uniform (homoplasmy) in its transmission or heterogeneous (heteroplasmy).
Comparison of multilocus sequence typing and Ca3 fingerprinting for molecular subtyping epidemiologically-related clinical isolates of Candida albicans.	Southern hybridization with the complex probe Ca3 is a well established tool for molecular subtyping of Candida albicans. Multilocus sequence typing (MLST) is a DNA sequence-based subtyping method recently applied to C. albicans and shown to have a high degree of intraspecies discriminatory power. However, its utility for studying the molecular epidemiology of sequential isolates from recurrent disease has not been established. We compared Ca3 Southern hybridization and MLST using seven housekeeping genes (CaAAT1a, CaACC1, CaADP1, CaPMI, CaSYA1, CaVPS13, CaZWF1b) for their ability to discriminate among 37 C. albicans isolates from recurrent cases of oropharyngeal candidiasis (OPC) in ten HIV-positive patients from India and the US. Among the 37 isolates, MLST identified 23 distinct genotypes (index of diversity = 97%); Ca3 Southern hybridization identified 21 distinct genotypes (index of diversity = 95%). Both methods clustered isolates into seven genetically-related groups and, with one exception, isolates that were indistinguishable by MLST were indistinguishable or highly related by Ca3 Southern hybridization. These results demonstrate that MLST performs equally well or better compared to Ca3 Southern hybridization for defining genetic-relatedness of sequential C. albicans isolates from recurrent cases of OPC in HIV-positive patients.
Molecular epidemiologic investigation of Campylobacter coli in swine production systems, using multilocus sequence typing.	Multilocus sequence typing of 151 Campylobacter coli isolates from swine reared in conventional (n = 74) and antimicrobial-free (n = 77) production systems revealed high genotypic diversity. Sequence type (ST) 1413 was predominant and observed among ciprofloxacin-resistant strains. We identified a C. coli ST 828 clonal complex consisting of isolates from both production systems.
Characterization of three genes encoding the subunits of light-independent protochlorophyllide reductase in Chlorella protothecoides CS-41.	Light is necessary for hydrogenation of the D ring of protochlorophyllide leading to chlorophyllide formation in higher plants (light-dependent pathway), but it is not essential in phototrophic bacteria (dark pathway). Both pathways, however, occur in some algae, mosses, ferns, and gymnosperms, and each chloroplast genome of these organisms contains three genes, chlL, chlN, and chlB, encoding the three subunits of light-independent protochlorophyllide reductase (LIPOR) required for protochlorophyllide reduction in the dark. In this study, the three LIPOR genes chlL, chlN, and chlB were cloned from the chloroplast of Chlorella protothecoides CS-41 (CSIRO), which grew heterotrophically with considerable chlorophyll yield. Phylogenetic analysis of ChlL/BchL showed that C. protothecoides CS-41 and Chlorella vulgaris C-27 were closely related. Alignment of their amino acid sequences demonstrated that the conserved domains, including the ATP-binding motif and the Fe-S binding motif in the three subunits, were similar to those in nitrogenases. The three-dimensional structural model of ChlL revealed a hypothetical Fe-S center for redox control. Results from RT-PCR amplification indicated that the chlL gene in C. protothecoides contained a 951-bp intron, and the splicing catalytic core structure was similar to that of the light-regulated intron in the psbA gene of Chlamydomonas. The three genes were expressed in E. coli BL21. The sizes of ChlL, ChlN, and ChlB were estimated to be 38, 49, and 58 kDa, respectively, based on the SDS-PAGE analysis.
Aberrant methylation in pediatric myelodysplastic syndrome.	Aberrant methylation of gene promoter region is responsible for inappropriate gene silencing, and it has been associated to initiation and progression of cancer. Aberrant promoter methylation is frequently observed in adult patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), but in pediatric patients it has been poorly investigated.
Multitypic hepatitis C virus infection identified by real-time nucleotide sequencing of minority genotypes.	The prevalence of concurrent multitypic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is uncertain. A sensitive and specific approach to identifying minority HCV genotypes in blood is presented. Following serum extraction and reverse transcription PCR to amplify cDNA originating from the viral 5' noncoding region, the amplified product mixture was treated with genotype-specific restriction endonuclease to digest the dominant genotype. Residual amplicons were subjected to PCR cloning and then to real-time DNA sequencing using a Pyrosequencer to identify the remaining genotypes. Dilution experiments showed that minority genotypes may be detected when they represent 1:10,000 of the total population and in serum specimens with viral loads as low as 1,000 IU/ml. Of 37 patients with bleeding disorders and 44 injecting drug users, infection by more than one HCV genotype was found in 7 (19%) and 4 (9%) patients, respectively. The low rate of detection in people at high risk of repeated HCV infection suggests that multitypic HCV carriage is uncommon.
Pyrosequencing as a rapid tool for identification of GES-type extended-spectrum beta-lactamases.	A pyrosequencing technique was used for identification of extended-spectrum beta-lactamases (ESBLs) of GES type. These beta-lactamases are isolated increasingly emerging in gram-negative bacteria worldwide. This rapid and reliable identification method is interesting, since GES variants, including not only expanded-spectrum cephalosporins but also carbapenems, cephamycins, and monobactams, are the only ESBLs that possess different hydrolysis profiles.
Evaluation of a genomics platform for cross-species transcriptome analysis of recombinant CHO cells.	Microarray technology for mammalian cells has been utilized mainly for humans, mouse, and rat gene expression analysis. In this approach the feasibility of cross-species hybridization experiments using Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells was evaluated. Sequence alignments of available data for CHO were performed against mouse and rat transcripts to determine the homology between the investigated species. We implemented a probability model based on this homology in order to estimate the chance for successful hybridization using Agilent's 60-mer oligonucleotide platform. Heat-shock expression data from CHO, mouse 3T3, and rat A10 cells were generated to determine intraspecies variability, reproducibility, and specificity in order to assess the accuracy of this method. Detected signature genes, in particular from studies with the mouse arrays, showed a reliable similarity between these two rodents and were confirmed by quantitative RT-PCR. Our findings provide evidence that cross-species analysis can be a useful tool to study gene expression profiles of related organisms for which species-specific microarrays are not available.
Translating DNA data tables into quasi-median networks for parsimony analysis and error detection.	Every DNA data table can be turned into a quasi-median network that faithfully represents the data. We show that for (weighted) condensed data tables the associated network harbors all most parsimonious reconstructions for any tree that connects the sampled haplotypes. Structural features of this network can be computed directly from the data table. The key principle repeatedly used is that the quasi-median network is uniquely determined by the sub-tables for pairs of characters. The translation of a table into a network enhances the understanding of the properties of the data in regard to homoplasy and potential artifacts. The total number of nodes of such a network measures the complexity of the data. In particular, networks that display the results of filter analyses by which hotspot mutations are removed help to detect data idiosyncrasies and thus pinpoint sequencing problems. A pertinent example drawn from human mtDNA illustrates these points.
A new approach to the assessment of the quality of predictions of transcription factor binding sites.	In this paper, we describe a novel method called Secondary Verification which assesses the quality of predictions of transcription factor binding sites. This method incorporates a distribution of prediction scores over positive examples (i.e. the actual binding sites) and is shown to be superior to p-value, routinely used statistical significance assessment, which uses only a distribution of prediction scores over background sequences. We also discuss how to integrate both distributions into a framework called Secondary Verification Assessment method which evaluates the quality of a model of a transcription factor. Based on that we create a hybrid representation of a transcription factor: we select the description (with or without dependencies) which is best for the transcription factor considered.
Weak definition of IKBKAP exon 20 leads to aberrant splicing in familial dysautonomia.	Splicing mutations that lead to devastating genetic diseases are often located in nonconserved or weakly conserved sequences that normally do not affect splicing. Thus, the underlying reason for the splicing defect is not immediately obvious. An example of this phenomenon is observed in the neurodevelopmental disease familial dysautonomia (FD), which is caused by a single-base change in the 5' splice site (5'ss) of intron 20 in the IKBKAP gene (c.2204+6T>C). This mutation, which is in the sixth position of the intron and results in exon 20 skipping, has no phenotype in many other introns. To determine why the position 6 mutation causes aberrant splicing only in certain cases, we first used an in silico approach to identify potential sequences involved in exon 20 skipping. Computational analyses of the exon 20 5'ss itself predicted that this nine-nucleotide splicing signal, even when it contains the T>C mutation, is not sufficiently weak to explain the FD phenotype. However, the computational analysis predicted that both the upstream 3' splice site (3'ss) and exon 20 contain weak splicing signals, indicating that the FD 5'ss, together with the surrounding splicing signals, are not adequate for defining exon 20. These in silico predictions were corroborated using IKBKAP minigenes in a new rapid and simple in vitro coupled RNA polymerase (RNAP) II transcription/splicing assay. Finally, the weak splicing signals that flank the T>C mutation were validated as the underlying cause of familial dysautonomia in vivo using transient transfection assays. Together, our study demonstrates the general utility of combining in silico data with an in vitro RNAP II transcription/splicing system for rapidly identifying critical sequences that underlie the numerous splicing diseases caused by otherwise silent mutations.
High-affinity triplex-forming oligonucleotide target sequences in mammalian genomes.	Site-specific recognition of duplex DNA by triplex-forming oligonucleotides (TFOs) provides a promising approach to manipulate mammalian genomes. A prerequisite for successful gene targeting using this approach is that the targeted gene must contain specific, high-affinity TFO target sequences (TTS). To date, TTS have been identified and characterized in only approximately 37 human or rodent genes, limiting the application of triplex-directed gene targeting. We searched the complete human and mouse genomes using an algorithm designed to identify high-affinity TTS. The resulting data set contains 1.9 million potential TTS for each species. We found that 97.8% of known human and 95.2% of known mouse genes have at least one potential high-affinity TTS in the promoter and/or transcribed gene regions. Importantly, 86.5% of known human and 83% of the known mouse genes have at least one TTS that is unique to that gene. Thus, it is possible to target the majority of human and mouse genes with specific TFOs. We found substantially more potential TTS in the promoter sequences than in the transcribed gene sequences or intergenic sequences in both genomes. We selected 12 mouse genes and 2 human genes critical for cell signaling, proliferation, and/or carcinogenesis, identified potential TTS in each, and determined TFO binding affinities to these sites in vitro. We identified at least one high-affinity, specific TFO binding site within each of these genes. Using this information, many genes involved in mammalian cell proliferation and carcinogenesis can now be targeted.
High-resolution mapping of DNA methylation in human genome using oligonucleotide tiling array.	DNA methylation is an epigenetic mark crucial in regulation of gene expression. Aberrant DNA methylation causes silencing of tumor suppressor genes and promotes chromosomal instability in human cancers. Most of previous studies for DNA methylation have focused on limited genomic regions, such as selected genes or promoter CpG islands (CGIs) containing recognition sites of methylation-sensitive restriction enzymes. Here, we describe a method for high-resolution analysis of DNA methylation using oligonucleotide tiling arrays. The input material is methylated DNA immunoprecipitated with anti-methylcytosine antibodies. We examined the ENCODE region ( approximately 1% of human genome) in three human colorectal cancer cell lines and identified over 700 candidate methylated sites (CMS), where 24 of 25 CMS selected randomly were subsequently verified by bisulfite sequencing. CMS were enriched in the 5' regulatory regions and the 3' regions of genes. We also compared DNA methylation patterns with histone H3 and H4 acetylation patterns in the HOXA cluster region. Our analysis revealed no acetylated histones in the hypermethylated region, demonstrating reciprocal relationship between DNA methylation and histone H3 and H4 acetylation. Our method recognizes DNA methylation with little bias by genomic location and, therefore, is useful for comprehensive high-resolution analysis of DNA methylation providing new findings in the epigenomics.
Mating trials validate the use of DNA barcoding to reveal cryptic speciation of a marine bryozoan taxon.	Despite increasing threats to the marine environment, only a fraction of the biodiversity of the oceans has been described, owing in part to the widespread occurrence of cryptic species. DNA-based barcoding through screening of an orthologous reference gene has been proposed as a powerful tool to uncover biological diversity in the face of dwindling taxonomic expertise and the limitations of traditional species identification. Although DNA barcoding should be particularly useful in the sea, given the prevalence of marine cryptic species, the link between taxa identified through DNA barcodes and reproductively isolated taxa (biological species) has rarely been explicitly tested. Here, we use an integrated framework comparing breeding compatibility, morphology and mitochondrial (cytochrome c oxidase 1) and nuclear (elongation factor-1-alpha) DNA sequence variation among globally distributed samples of the cosmopolitan marine bryozoan Celleporella hyalina (L.). Our results reveal that C. hyalina comprises numerous deep, mostly allopatric, genetic lineages that are reproductively isolated, yet share very similar morphology, indicating rampant cryptic speciation. The close correspondence between genetic lineages and reproductively isolated taxa in the context of minimal morphological change suggests that DNA barcoding will play a leading role in uncovering the hidden biodiversity of the oceans and that the sole use of morphologically based taxonomy would grossly underestimate the number of marine species.
A novel method for biodosimetry.	Accurate methods for measuring the biological effects of radiation are critical for estimating an individual's health risk from radiation exposure. We investigated the feasibility of using radiation-induced mutations in repetitive DNA sequences to measure genetic damage caused by radiation exposure. Most repetitive sequences are in non-coding regions of the genome and alterations in these loci are usually not deleterious. Thus, mutations in non-coding repetitive sequences might accumulate, providing a stable molecular record of DNA damage caused by all past exposures. To test this hypothesis, we screened repetitive DNA sequences to identify the loci most sensitive to radiation-induced mutations and then investigated whether these mutations were stable in vivo over time and after multiple exposures. Microsatellite repeat markers were identified that exhibited a linear dose response up to 1 Gy of 1 GeV/nucleon 56Fe ions and 137Cs gamma rays in mouse and human cells. Short tandem repeats on the Y chromosome and mononucleotide repeats on autosomal chromosomes exhibited significant increases in mutations at >or= 0.5 Gy of 56Fe ions with frequencies averaging 4.3-10.3 x 10(-3) mutations/locus/Gy/cell, high enough for direct detection of mutations in irradiated cells. A significant increase in radiation-induced mutations in extended mononucleotide repeats was detectible in vivo in mouse blood and cheek samples 10 and 26 weeks after radiation exposure and these mutations were additive over multiple exposures. This study demonstrates the feasibility of a novel method for biodosimetry that is applicable to humans and other species. This new approach should complement existing methods of biodosimetry and might be useful for measuring radiation exposure in circumstances that are not amenable to current methods.
Identification of CTX-M-type extended-spectrum-beta-lactamase genes using real-time PCR and pyrosequencing.	CTX-M extended-spectrum beta-lactamases (ESBLs) are increasingly prevalent worldwide among Escherichia coli bacteria, mostly in community-acquired urinary tract infections. Finding a fast and reliable technique for identification of CTX-M enzymes is becoming a challenge for the microbiology laboratory. A fast real-time PCR amplification technique, using degenerated primers specific for all the bla(CTX-M) alleles, coupled to real-time pyrosequencing was developed. The five CTX-M groups were unambiguously identified by pyrosequencing a 13-bp DNA region. Further sequencing of an additional 16-bp region allowed further division into subgroups. Phylogenetic trees constructed with the entire bla(CTX-M) genes and with both pyrosequenced regions (29 bp) gave similar results, suggesting that this technique, termed the real-time detection and sequencing method, has a powerful discriminatory ability. This high-throughput technique has been evaluated by screening 48 ESBL-producing E. coli isolates recovered from the Bictre hospital (France) in 2004. Forty-four of these strains were CTX-M positive by real-time PCR detection and direct pyrosequencing of the PCR products, which identified CTX-M-15 as the main CTX-M-type beta-lactamase. Pulsed-field gel electrophoresis analysis of these strains revealed that several clones, of which one CTX-M-15-positive clone was predominant (60%), were identified both in nosocomial and in community-acquired isolates. The combination of real-time PCR with pyrosequencing represents a powerful tool for epidemiological studies of CTX-M producers. This assay has the potential to be used in a diagnostic laboratory since up to 96 bacterial isolates may be screened in less than 3 h.
Inferential, robust non-negative matrix factorization analysis of microarray data.	Modern methods such as microarrays, proteomics and metabolomics often produce datasets where there are many more predictor variables than observations. Research in these areas is often exploratory; even so, there is interest in statistical methods that accurately point to effects that are likely to replicate. Correlations among predictors are used to improve the statistical analysis. We exploit two ideas: non-negative matrix factorization methods that create ordered sets of predictors; and statistical testing within ordered sets which is done sequentially, removing the need for correction for multiple testing within the set.
Gene discovery and annotation using LCM-454 transcriptome sequencing.	454 DNA sequencing technology achieves significant throughput relative to traditional approaches. More than 261,000 ESTs were generated by 454 Life Sciences from cDNA isolated using laser capture microdissection (LCM) from the developmentally important shoot apical meristem (SAM) of maize (Zea mays L.). This single sequencing run annotated >25,000 maize genomic sequences and also captured approximately 400 expressed transcripts for which homologous sequences have not yet been identified in other species. Approximately 70% of the ESTs generated in this study had not been captured during a previous EST project conducted using a cDNA library constructed from hand-dissected apex tissue that is highly enriched for SAMs. In addition, at least 30% of the 454-ESTs do not align to any of the approximately 648,000 extant maize ESTs using conservative alignment criteria. These results indicate that the combination of LCM and the deep sequencing possible with 454 technology enriches for SAM transcripts not present in current EST collections. RT-PCR was used to validate the expression of 27 genes whose expression had been detected in the SAM via LCM-454 technology, but that lacked orthologs in GenBank. Significantly, transcripts from approximately 74% (20/27) of these validated SAM-expressed "orphans" were not detected in meristem-rich immature ears. We conclude that the coupling of LCM and 454 sequencing technologies facilitates the discovery of rare, possibly cell-type-specific transcripts.
RiboaptDB: a comprehensive database of ribozymes and aptamers.	Catalytic RNA molecules are called ribozymes. The aptamers are DNA or RNA molecules that have been selected from vast populations of random sequences, through a combinatorial approach known as SELEX. The selected oligo-nucleotide sequences (~200 bp in length) have the ability to recognize broad range of specific ligands by forming binding pockets. These novel aptamer sequences can bind to nucleic acids, proteins or small organic and inorganic chemical compounds and have many potential uses in medicine and technology.
High penetrance of sequencing errors and interpretative shortcomings in mtDNA sequence analysis of LHON patients.	For identifying mutation(s) that are potentially pathogenic it is essential to determine the entire mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequences from patients suffering from a particular mitochondrial disease, such as Leber hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON). However, such sequencing efforts can, in the worst case, be riddled with errors by imposing phantom mutations or misreporting variant nucleotides, and moreover, by inadvertently regarding some mutations as novel and pathogenic, which are actually known to define minor haplogroups. Under such circumstances it remains unclear whether the disease-associated mutations would have been determined adequately. Here, we re-analyse four problematic LHON studies and propose guidelines by which some of the pitfalls could be avoided.
Predicting single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) from DNA sequence by support vector machine.	Recently, SNP has gained substantial attention as genetic markers and is recognized as a key element in the development of personalized medicine. Computational prediction of SNP can be used as a guide for SNP discovery to reduce the cost and time needed for the development of personalized medicine. We have developed a method for SNP prediction based on support vector machines (SVMs) using different features extracted from the SNP data. Prediction rates of 60.9% was achieved by sequence feature, 59.1% by free-energy feature, 58.1% by GC content feature, 58.0% by melting temperature feature, 56.2% by enthalpy feature, 55.1% by entropy feature and 54.3% by the gene, exon and intron feature. We introduced a new feature, the SNP distribution score that achieved a prediction rate of 77.3%. Thus, the proposed SNP prediction algorithm can be used to in SNP discovery.
Transcriptional regulation by competing transcription factor modules.	Gene regulatory networks lie at the heart of cellular computation. In these networks, intracellular and extracellular signals are integrated by transcription factors, which control the expression of transcription units by binding to cis-regulatory regions on the DNA. The designs of both eukaryotic and prokaryotic cis-regulatory regions are usually highly complex. They frequently consist of both repetitive and overlapping transcription factor binding sites. To unravel the design principles of these promoter architectures, we have designed in silico prokaryotic transcriptional logic gates with predefined input-output relations using an evolutionary algorithm. The resulting cis-regulatory designs are often composed of modules that consist of tandem arrays of binding sites to which the transcription factors bind cooperatively. Moreover, these modules often overlap with each other, leading to competition between them. Our analysis thus identifies a new signal integration motif that is based upon the interplay between intramodular cooperativity and intermodular competition. We show that this signal integration mechanism drastically enhances the capacity of cis-regulatory domains to integrate signals. Our results provide a possible explanation for the complexity of promoter architectures and could be used for the rational design of synthetic gene circuits.
Reliability of multilocus sequence typing of the Burkholderia cepacia complex in cystic fibrosis.	Infection with the Burkholderia cepacia complex is an important cause of morbidity and mortality in cystic fibrosis (CF). We investigated the molecular clock speed of the seven genes used in the multilocus sequence typing (MLST) scheme for these bacteria.
Resequencing and association analysis of the SP110 gene in adult pulmonary tuberculosis.	Recently, the Intracellular pathogen resistance 1 (Ipr1) gene was shown to control susceptibility to Mycobacterium tuberculosis in mice. We examined whether common sequence variants of its human orthologue, the SP110 gene, are associated with susceptibility to tuberculosis in a human population. We resequenced SP110 exons in 96 individuals and identified new polymorphisms. Then, we combined our sequence and HapMap data for 83 distinct polymorphisms and selected tags that capture information for all common variants in the 100 kb region around SP110. We genotyped 29 single nucleotide polymorphisms including seven amino-acid changing variants in 1,912 HIV-negative culture-confirmed adult pulmonary tuberculosis patients and 2,104 adult healthy controls from Russia and found no evidence of association. Our results indicate that common polymorphisms of the SP110 gene have no major effect on susceptibility to tuberculosis in this population.
Inference of bacterial microevolution using multilocus sequence data.	We describe a model-based method for using multilocus sequence data to infer the clonal relationships of bacteria and the chromosomal position of homologous recombination events that disrupt a clonal pattern of inheritance. The key assumption of our model is that recombination events introduce a constant rate of substitutions to a contiguous region of sequence. The method is applicable both to multilocus sequence typing (MLST) data from a few loci and to alignments of multiple bacterial genomes. It can be used to decide whether a subset of isolates share common ancestry, to estimate the age of the common ancestor, and hence to address a variety of epidemiological and ecological questions that hinge on the pattern of bacterial spread. It should also be useful in associating particular genetic events with the changes in phenotype that they cause. We show that the model outperforms existing methods of subdividing recombinogenic bacteria using MLST data and provide examples from Salmonella and Bacillus. The software used in this article, ClonalFrame, is available from http://bacteria.stats.ox.ac.uk/.
Detecting statistically significant common insertion sites in retroviral insertional mutagenesis screens.	Retroviral insertional mutagenesis screens, which identify genes involved in tumor development in mice, have yielded a substantial number of retroviral integration sites, and this number is expected to grow substantially due to the introduction of high-throughput screening techniques. The data of various retroviral insertional mutagenesis screens are compiled in the publicly available Retroviral Tagged Cancer Gene Database (RTCGD). Integrally analyzing these screens for the presence of common insertion sites (CISs, i.e., regions in the genome that have been hit by viral insertions in multiple independent tumors significantly more than expected by chance) requires an approach that corrects for the increased probability of finding false CISs as the amount of available data increases. Moreover, significance estimates of CISs should be established taking into account both the noise, arising from the random nature of the insertion process, as well as the bias, stemming from preferential insertion sites present in the genome and the data retrieval methodology. We introduce a framework, the kernel convolution (KC) framework, to find CISs in a noisy and biased environment using a predefined significance level while controlling the family-wise error (FWE) (the probability of detecting false CISs). Where previous methods use one, two, or three predetermined fixed scales, our method is capable of operating at any biologically relevant scale. This creates the possibility to analyze the CISs in a scale space by varying the width of the CISs, providing new insights in the behavior of CISs across multiple scales. Our method also features the possibility of including models for background bias. Using simulated data, we evaluate the KC framework using three kernel functions, the Gaussian, triangular, and rectangular kernel function. We applied the Gaussian KC to the data from the combined set of screens in the RTCGD and found that 53% of the CISs do not reach the significance threshold in this combined setting. Still, with the FWE under control, application of our method resulted in the discovery of eight novel CISs, which each have a probability less than 5% of being false detections.
Use of massively parallel signature sequencing to study genes expressed during the plant defense response.	Massively parallel signature sequencing is a sequencing-based method that provides quantitative gene expression data for nearly all transcripts in a particular ribonucleic acid sample. Although the sequencing technology is practiced as a service by a California-based company, we have developed methods for the handling and analysis of these data. This chapter describes the steps involved in obtaining data from massively parallel signature sequencing, aligning the signatures to genomic sequence, identifying novel transcripts, and performing quantitative analyses of genes expressed under conditions such as disease treatments.
GC content and genome length in Chargaff compliant genomes.	Musto et al. [H. Musto, H. Naya, A. Zavala, H. Romero, F. Alvarez-Valin, G. Bernardi, Genomic GC level, optimal growth temperature, and genome size in prokaryotes, Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 347 (2006) 1-3] recently reported a linear correlation between GC content and genome length. The regression model was heteroscedactic which suggested that the relationship might be more clearly defined. Alternative regression models (R(2)>0.95) were fitted to a set of over 900 sequences compliant with Chargaff's second parity rule. The new models suggest that the relationship between GC content and genome length is more complex than was originally suggested. While similar models can be derived for non-Chargaff compliant genomes, their interpretation is likely to be more difficult.
Simple screening method for differentially methylated regions of the genome using a small number of cells.	Genomic DNA methylation is a major epigenetic mechanism controlling the expression of genetic information. Therefore, identifying regions of the genome that are differentially methylated in different cells is a useful strategy for the study of biological phenomena. To date, several useful screening methods have been established for identifying differentially methylated genomic regions. However, it is impossible to use these methods in fields of study in which it is difficult to obtain a large number of uniform cells, because considerable amounts of genomic DNA are required. Given this situation, we developed a method for preparing large genomic DNA from a small number of cells, and a simple and highly sensitive method for screening for differentially methylated sites. Combined, these two methods comprise a simple screening method, which we named "Differential Methylation Site Scanning" (DMSS), for identifying differentially methylated regions of the genome from a small number of cells. Just 10 cells are sufficient for the method described here.
A rapid PCR procedure for the specific identification of Lactobacillus sanfranciscensis, based on the 16S-23S intergenic spacer regions.	The organization of ribosomal RNA (rrn) operons in Lactobacillus sanfranciscensis was studied in order to establish an easy-to-perform method for identification of L. sanfranciscensis strains, based on the length and sequence polymorphism of the 16S-23S rDNA intergenic spacer region (ISR).
Pyrosequencing applications.	Genetics research has benefited tremendously from the release of the human genome sequence. Subsequent technology has been developed and adapted to accommodate the need for faster, easier throughput of genetic assays. Pyrosequencing is a unique system that allows the analysis of genetic variations including single-nucleotide polymorphisms, indels and short repeats, as well as assessing RNA allelic imbalance, DNA methylation status, and gene copy number. Advances in methodology, including multiplex and universal primer applications, have reduced assay cost and improved throughput. This chapter briefly reviews some of the many applications for Pyrosequencing technology.
Web-based primer design software for genome-scale genotyping by pyrosequencing.	Design of locus-specific primers for use during genetic analysis requires combining information from multiple sources and can be a time-consuming process when validating large numbers of assays. Data warehousing of genomic DNA sequences and genetic variations when coupled with software applications for optimizing the generation of locus-specific primers can increase the efficiency of assay development. Selection of oligonucleotide primers for PCR and Pyrosequencing (SOP3) software allows user-directed queries of warehoused data collected from the human and mouse genome sequencing projects. The software automates collection of DNA sequence flanking single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) as well as the incorporation of locus-associated functional information, such as whether the SNP occurs in an exon, intron, or untranslated region. SOP3 software accepts three types of user-directed input consisting of gene locus symbols, SNP reference sequence numbers, or chromosomal physical location. For human polymorphisms, SOP3 incorporates haplotype, ethnicity, and SNP validation attributes. The output is a list of oligonucleotide primers recommended for Pyrosequencing-based typing of genetic variations. SOP3 is available at the Division of Immunogenetics computational server found at http://imgen.ccbb.pitt.edu.
Pyrosequencing: a simple method for accurate genotyping.	Pharmacogenetic research benefits first-hand from the abundance of information provided by the completion of the Human Genome Project. With such a tremendous amount of data available comes an explosion of genotyping methods. Pyrosequencing is one of the most thorough yet simple methods to date used to analyze polymorphisms. It also has the ability to identify tri-allelic, indels, short-repeat polymorphisms, along with determining allele percentages for methylation or pooled sample assessment. In addition, there is a standardized control sequence that provides internal quality control. This method has led to rapid and efficient single-nucleotide polymorphism evaluation including many clinically relevant polymorphisms. The technique and methodology of Pyrosequencing is explained in this chapter.
Universal primer applications for pyrosequencing.	Pyrosequencing is a high-throughput technique for single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) genotyping, DNA sequencing, and SNP allele frequency and DNA methylation assays. The Pyrosequencing assay involves initially purifying PCR-generated single-strand DNA labeled with biotin as a sequencing template. The disadvantage of the synthesis of a biotinylated sequence-specific primer to assay each DNA variant lies in costs and time consumption. To overcome this problem, methodology has been developed to generate biotinylated Pyrosequencing DNA templates using a universal biotinylated primer. Using this methodology, biotinylated DNA fragments can be generated without the use of sequence-specific biotinylated primers for each DNA variant.
Multiplex pyrosequencing for DNA variation analysis.	Pyrosequencing technique has been widely used to perform both single-nucleotide polymorphism detection and quantitative DNA methylation analysis. Simplex Pyrosequencing is sufficient to interrogate more than one polymorphic site if these gene variants are within the reach of the sequencing reaction. For polymorphisms far apart from each other or located on different genes, multiple simplex analyses are required. To reduce the number of simplex reactions, multiplex Pyrosequencing becomes a useful alternative method. The multiplex reaction is performed in the presence of single or multiple templates with several sequencing primers. Factors such as primer selection for the PCR and Pyrosequencing reaction, generation of optimal nucleotide dispensation order, use of internal and external controls, preparation of instrumentation, and Pyrogram interpretation are essential to the success of the multiplexing. In this chapter, the mouse 45S rRNA gene is used to present two general multiplex Pyrosequencing protocols for determining DNA methylation and allele frequency in the spacer promoter region of this gene.
Analysis of gene-specific DNA methylation patterns by pyrosequencing technology.	As the sequence of the human genome is now nearly finished, genome research turns to elucidate gene function and regulation. DNA methylation is of particular importance for gene regulation and is strongly implicated in the pathogenesis of various diseases. The real-time luminometric detection of pyrophosphate release upon nucleotide incorporation in the Pyrosequencing technology is ideally suited for the simultaneous analysis and quantification of the methylation degree of several CpG positions in close proximity. We developed and improved this analysis to obtain reproducible results for as many as 10 successive CpGs in a single sequencing reaction spanning up to 80 nt. Advantages of the Pyrosequencing technology are the ease of its implementation, the high quality and the quantitative nature of the results, and its ability to identify differentially methylated positions in close proximity, which may be used as DNA methylation markers.
Pyrosequencing-based strategies for improved allele typing of human leukocyte antigen loci.	Successful transplantation of tissue during solid organ and bone marrow transplantation relies on accurate determination of the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) phenotype of the potential donor(s) and recipient. Matching donor with recipient for a kidney transplant generally means finding a six-antigen match by looking at each of two alleles at HLA-A, -B, and -DR loci. For bone marrow transplantation the HLA-C and -DQ alleles are also considered. Molecular techniques, including sequencing, are capable of precisely defining HLA alleles. Because of the large number of possible allelic combinations there are numerous ambiguities associated with heterozygous genotypes even when sequence-based typing protocols are used. Sequencing-by-synthesis methodology employed by Pyrosequencing represents an improvement when applied to HLA genotyping that allows resolution of many ambiguous allelic pairs. Out-of-phase sequencing of HLA alleles by Pyrosequencing can resolve cis/trans ambiguities that would otherwise require the sequencing of isolated cloned DNAs. Single-nucleotide polymorphism typing of HLA for the presence of specific variants is also beneficial for monitoring HLA-encoded genetic risk to autoimmune diseases, such as celiac disease, rheumatoid arthritis, and type 1 diabetes mellitus.
Pyrosequencing of phage display libraries for the identification of cell-specific targeting ligands.	High combinatorial phage display libraries have become an important tool in the search for ligand-receptor interactions. The advantage this approach offers is the ability to screen large repertoires of peptides, displayed on the coat proteins of bacteriophages, against a target at the same time. In addition, no prior knowledge is required of the target or the ligand. However, to characterize the peptides of interest a short length of the bacteriophage genome that encodes the peptide sequence requires DNA sequencing. The number of candidate bacteriophages can be large and so sequencing is expensive, time-consuming, and laborious. Therefore, a methodology using Pyrosequencing has been developed where 96-phage displaying a seven amino acid peptide can be analyzed simultaneously within 45 min and at a fraction of the cost associated with traditional automated Sanger sequencing.
Detection of allelic imbalance in gene expression using pyrosequencing.	Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are common in the human genome, with more than 11 million SNPs having frequencies greater than 1%. The challenge is to identify the minority of functional SNPs from the large number of SNPs that are expected to be silent. Whereas coding variants are unusual, and functional (nonsynonymous) coding SNPs likely rare, regulatory SNPs appear to be common. Traditional methods to identify these SNPs in vitro are time consuming and challenging. An alternative method is to examine the allele-specific expression in the cDNA from tissues expressing the genes of interest and in individuals heterozygous for a transcribed SNP. This method permits expression to be evaluated in the context of the same trans-acting factors and to identify genes with likely cis-acting regulatory variants or parent of origin (imprinting) effects. Such studies require a method to reliably quantify the expression from each allele. Pyrosequencing offers such capabilities, and given the relatively low cost and high throughput, it offers a sensitive method to determine allelic imbalance in the cDNA from tissues expressing genes of interest.
Pyrosequencing genotype storage techniques.	Data storage and data coordination are important aspects of project design and execution. Pyrosequencing technology allows thousands of data-points to be collected per day. Consequently, a consistent and reliable method of data input and storage is vital. This chapter discusses the strengths and weaknesses of data storage systems.
Generating unigene collections of expressed sequence tag sequences for use in mass spectrometry identification.	Expressed sequence tag sequences remain the largest resource of DNA sequence for most organisms despite recent advances in genome sequencing. These sequences are short, fragmented versions of the expressed genes. By DNA sequence assembly, the fragments can be assembled into contiguous DNA sequences that are better suited for protein identification by mass spectrometry.
Rapid species determination of Nocardia keratitis using pyrosequencing technology.	To describe a new technique, pyrosequencing, which allows for the rapid identification of Mycobacterium and Nocardia species.
Bacillus cereus strains fall into two clusters (one closely and one more distantly related) to Bacillus anthracis according to amino acid substitutions in small acid-soluble proteins as determined by tandem mass spectrometry.	Small acid-soluble proteins (SASPs) are located in the core region of Bacillus spores and have been previously demonstrated as reliable biomarkers for differentiating Bacillus anthracis and Bacillus cereus. Using MS and MS-MS analysis of SASPs further phylogenetic correlations among B. anthracis and B. cereus strains are described here. ESI was demonstrated to be a more comprehensive method, allowing for the analysis of intact proteins in both MS and MS-MS mode, thus providing molecular weight (MW) and sequence information in a single analysis, and requiring almost no sample preparation. MALDI MS was used for determination of MW of intact proteins; however, MS-MS analysis can only be achieved after enzymatic digestion of these proteins. It was demonstrated that the combination of the two different approaches provides confirmatory and complementary information, allowing for unambiguous protein characterization and sequencing. This study established that B. cereus strains fall into two clusters (one closely and one more distantly related) to B. anthracis as exhibited by amino acid substitutions. The closely related cluster was characterized by a beta-SASP with a single amino acid substitution, localized either close to the C terminus (phenylalanine-->tyrosine, 16 masses change) or close to the N terminus (serine-->alanine serine, also 16 masses change). The more distantly related cluster displayed both amino acid substitutions (32 masses change). One strain of B. cereus isolated from a patient with severe pneumonia (an anthrax-like disease) fell into the more distantly related cluster implying that pathogenicity and phylogenicity are not necessarily correlated features. Unlike PCR and DNA sequencing, protein sequence variation assessed by ESI MS-MS, essentially occurs in real-time, and involves simply extracting the protein and injecting into the instrument for analysis.
Rapid detection and identification of bacterial pathogens using novel molecular technologies: infection control and beyond.	The rapid detection and reporting of antimicrobial-resistant pathogens, such as methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, vancomycin-resistant enterococci, and multidrug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis, is a challenge for the clinical microbiology laboratory. Molecular-based diagnostic tests can provide data on the presence of methicillin-resistant S. aureus in the nares in approximately 1 h, whereas testing for the vanA and vanB resistance genes in enterococci isolated from perirectal samples can be completed in approximately 4 h. Novel pyrosequencing assays can provide data regarding the presence of multidrug-resistant M. tuberculosis directly from positive mycobacterial broth cultures in <1 day. These data can assist physicians in both therapeutic and infection control decisions.
Assessment of phylogenomic and orthology approaches for phylogenetic inference.	Phylogenomics integrates the vast amount of phylogenetic information contained in complete genome sequences, and is rapidly becoming the standard for reliably inferring species phylogenies. There are, however, fundamental differences between the ways in which phylogenomic approaches like gene content, superalignment, superdistance and supertree integrate the phylogenetic information from separate orthologous groups. Furthermore, they all depend on the method by which the orthologous groups are initially determined. Here, we systematically compare these four phylogenomic approaches, in parallel with three approaches for large-scale orthology determination: pairwise orthology, cluster orthology and tree-based orthology.
Computing exact P-values for DNA motifs.	Many heuristic algorithms have been designed to approximate P-values of DNA motifs described by position weight matrices, for evaluating their statistical significance. They often significantly deviate from the true P-value by orders of magnitude. Exact P-value computation is needed for ranking the motifs. Furthermore, surprisingly, the complexity of the problem is unknown.
Identifying clusters of functionally related genes in genomes.	An increasing body of literature shows that genomes of eukaryotes can contain clusters of functionally related genes. Most approaches to identify gene clusters utilize microarray data or metabolic pathway databases to find groups of genes on chromosomes that are linked by common attributes. A generalized method that can find gene clusters regardless of the mechanism of origin would provide researchers with an unbiased method for finding clusters and studying the evolutionary forces that give rise to them.
Analysis of E. coli promoter recognition problem in dinucleotide feature space.	Patterns in the promoter sequences within a species are known to be conserved but there exist many exceptions to this rule which makes the promoter recognition a complex problem. Although many complex feature extraction schemes coupled with several classifiers have been proposed for promoter recognition in the current literature, the problem is still open.
Breathing dynamics in heteropolymer DNA.	While the statistical mechanical description of DNA has a long tradition, renewed interest in DNA melting from a physics perspective is nourished by measurements of the fluctuation dynamics of local denaturation bubbles by single molecule spectroscopy. The dynamical opening of DNA bubbles (DNA breathing) is supposedly crucial for biological functioning during, for instance, transcription initiation and DNA's interaction with selectively single-stranded DNA binding proteins. Motivated by this, we consider the bubble breathing dynamics in a heteropolymer DNA based on a (2+1)-variable master equation and complementary stochastic Gillespie simulations, providing the bubble size and the position of the bubble along the sequence as a function of time. We utilize new experimental data that independently obtain stacking and hydrogen bonding contributions to DNA stability. We calculate the spectrum of relaxation times and the experimentally measurable autocorrelation function of a fluorophore-quencher tagged basepair, and demonstrate good agreement with fluorescence correlation experiments. A significant dependence of opening probability and waiting time between bubble events on the local DNA sequence is revealed and quantified for a promoter sequence of the T7 phage. The strong dependence on sequence, temperature and salt concentration for the breathing dynamics of DNA found here points at a good potential for nanosensing applications by utilizing short fluorophore-quencher dressed DNA constructs.
A simulation test bed for hypotheses of genome evolution.	Microbial genomes undergo evolutionary processes such as gene family expansion and contraction, variable rates and patterns of sequence substitution and lateral genetic transfer. Simulation tools are essential for both the generation of data under different evolutionary models and the validation of analytical methods on such data. However, meaningful investigation of phenomena such as lateral genetic transfer requires the simultaneous consideration of many underlying evolutionary processes.
OMWSA: detection of DNA repeats using moving window spectral analysis.	Repetitive DNA sequences play paramount biological roles, such as gene variation and regulatory functions on gene expressions. Until now, detection of various kinds of DNA repeats accurately is still an open problem. In this article, we propose a new method and a visualization tool for detecting DNA repeats in a 2D plane of location and frequency by using optimized moving window spectral analysis. The spectrogram can display the general distribution of repetitive sequences while showing the repeat period, length and location without any prior knowledge. Experimental results demonstrate that our method is accurate and robust even under the condition of excessive mutating and interleaving.
CGHcall: calling aberrations for array CGH tumor profiles.	CGHcall achieves high calling accuracy for array CGH data by effective use of breakpoint information from segmentation and by inclusion of several biological concepts that are ignored by existing algorithms. The algorithm is validated for simulated and verified real array CGH data. By incorporating more than three classes, CGHcall improves detection of single copy gains and amplifications. Moreover, it allows effective inclusion of chromosome arm information.
Interrupted coding sequences in Mycobacterium smegmatis: authentic mutations or sequencing errors?	In silico analysis has shown that all bacterial genomes contain a low percentage of ORFs with undetected frameshifts and in-frame stop codons. These interrupted coding sequences (ICDSs) may really be present in the organism or may result from misannotation based on sequencing errors. The reality or otherwise of these sequences has major implications for all subsequent functional characterization steps, including module prediction, comparative genomics and high-throughput proteomic projects.
Unequal crossover recombination - population screening for PHOX2B gene polyalanine polymorphism using CE.	Congenital central hypoventilation syndrome (CCHS) is a rare neurological disorder characterized by abnormal autonomic central nervous system control of breathing during sleep. Mutations in the paired-like homeobox 2B (PHOX2B) gene, including point mutation, frameshift, and polyalanine expansion, are associated with the pathogenesis of CCHS. In this study, PHOX2B mutations were analyzed in seven CCHS patients, their family members, and 1520 healthy individuals from the general population using CE to provide high sensitivity and resolution screening for the PHOX2B polyalanine polymorphism. Seven mutations in the PHOX2B gene, including two frameshift mutations and five polyalanine expansions in the 20-residue polyalanine tract, were identified. The various phenotypes observed in CCHS patients with PHOX2B mutations suggest that the size of the expansion allele is associated with the CCHS risk. In addition, significant differences were found in allele and genotype distributions between the healthy individuals. Alleles (GCN)(20) and (GCN)(15) had the highest population incidence rates of 94.84 and 4.51%, respectively, with the remaining alleles, (GCN)(13) and (GCN)(7), accounting for 0.59 and 0.06%, respectively. Therefore, it has been demonstrated that CE can be used to improve the detection of polyalanine expansions in the PHOX2B gene. The attractive alternative method is a promising tool for the detection of disorders involving trinucleotide repeat tracts.
Quantification of the methylation status of the PWS/AS imprinted region: comparison of two approaches based on bisulfite sequencing and methylation-sensitive MLPA.	Standard methods used for genomic methylation analysis allow the detection of complete absence of either methylated or non-methylated alleles but are usually unable to detect changes in the proportion of methylated and unmethylated alleles. We compare two methods for quantitative methylation analysis, using the chromosome 15q11-q13 imprinted region as model. Absence of the non-methylated paternal allele in this region leads to Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) whilst absence of the methylated maternal allele results in Angelman syndrome (AS). A proportion of AS is caused by mosaic imprinting defects which may be missed with standard methods and require quantitative analysis for their detection. Sequence-based quantitative methylation analysis (SeQMA) involves quantitative comparison of peaks generated through sequencing reactions after bisulfite treatment. It is simple, cost-effective and can be easily established for a large number of genes. However, our results support previous suggestions that methods based on bisulfite treatment may be problematic for exact quantification of methylation status. Methylation-specific multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MS-MLPA) avoids bisulfite treatment. It detects changes in both CpG methylation as well as copy number of up to 40 chromosomal sequences in one simple reaction. Once established in a laboratory setting, the method is more accurate, reliable and less time consuming.
Position dependencies in transcription factor binding sites.	Most of the available tools for transcription factor binding site prediction are based on methods which assume no sequence dependence between the binding site base positions. Our primary objective was to investigate the statistical basis for either a claim of dependence or independence, to determine whether such a claim is generally true, and to use the resulting data to develop improved scoring functions for binding-site prediction.
HomologMiner: looking for homologous genomic groups in whole genomes.	Complex genomes contain numerous repeated sequences, and genomic duplication is believed to be a main evolutionary mechanism to obtain new functions. Several tools are available for de novo repeat sequence identification, and many approaches exist for clustering homologous protein sequences. We present an efficient new approach to identify and cluster homologous DNA sequences with high accuracy at the level of whole genomes, excluding low-complexity repeats, tandem repeats and annotated interspersed repeats. We also determine the boundaries of each group member so that it closely represents a biological unit, e.g. a complete gene, or a partial gene coding a protein domain.
ClusterDraw web server: a tool to identify and visualize clusters of binding motifs for transcription factors.	ClusterDraw is a program aimed to identification of binding sites and binding-site clusters. Major difference of the ClusterDraw from existing tools is its ability to scan a wide range of parameter values and weigh statistical significance of all possible clusters, smaller than a selected size. The program produces graphs along with decorated FASTA files. ClusterDraw web server is available at the following URL: http://flydev.berkeley.edu/cgi-bin/cld/submit.cgi
Continuous-index hidden Markov modelling of array CGH copy number data.	In recent years, a range of techniques for analysis and segmentation of array comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) data have been proposed. For array designs in which clones are of unequal lengths, are unevenly spaced or overlap, the discrete-index view typically adopted by such methods may be questionable or improved.
SNP discovery by mismatch-targeting of Mu transposition.	Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) represent a valuable resource for the mapping of human disease genes and induced mutations in model organisms. SNPs may become the markers of choice also for population ecology and evolutionary studies, but their isolation for non-model organisms with unsequenced genomes is often difficult. Here, we describe a rapid and cost-effective strategy to isolate SNPs that exploits the property of the bacteriophage Mu transposition machinery to target mismatched DNA sites and thereby to effectively detect polymorphic loci. To demonstrate the methodology, we isolated 164 SNPs from the unsequenced genome of the Glanville fritillary butterfly (Melitaea cinxia), a much-studied species in population biology, and we validated 24 of them. The strategy involves standard molecular biology techniques as well as undemanding MuA transposase-catalyzed in vitro transposition reactions, and it is applicable to any organism.
Minimus: a fast, lightweight genome assembler.	Genome assemblers have grown very large and complex in response to the need for algorithms to handle the challenges of large whole-genome sequencing projects. Many of the most common uses of assemblers, however, are best served by a simpler type of assembler that requires fewer software components, uses less memory, and is far easier to install and run.
SwS: a solvation web service for nucleic acids.	SwS, based on a statistical analysis of crystallographic structures deposited in the NDB, is designed to provide an exhaustive overview of the solvation of nucleic acid structural elements through the generation of 3D solvent density maps. A first version (v1.0) of this web service focuses on the interaction of DNA, RNA and hybrid base pairs linked by two or three hydrogen bonds with water, cations and/or anions. Data provided by SwS are updated on a weekly basis and can be used by: (i) those involved in molecular dynamics simulation studies for validation purposes; (ii) crystallographers for help in the interpretation of solvent density maps; and all those involved in (iii) drug design and, more generally, in (iv) nucleic acid structural studies. SwS provides also statistical data related to the frequency of occurrence of different types of base pairs in crystallographic structures and the conformation of the involved nucleotides. This web service has been designed to allow a maximum of flexibility in terms of queries and has also been developed with didactic considerations in mind.
A DNA sequence capture extraction method for detection of Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis in feces and tissue samples.	Culturing of Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis (Map) remains difficult and is time consuming. An alternative for the rapid detection of Map in samples is PCR. We have developed a sensitive DNA-extraction method based on sequence capture for the rapid detection of M. avium subspecies paratuberculosis by PCR in fecal and tissue samples. The method detected 10(2)Map/g feces using spiked samples, and reached a diagnostic sensitivity of 33,7% compared to 22% for culture. Analysis of tissue samples gave 65 polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-positive (42.2%) and 49 culture-positive samples (31.8%). Therefore, the detection limit of the DNA-extraction is the same as previously reported for culture, the PCR assay could detect more positive samples than the culture method.
rh_tsp_map 3.0: end-to-end radiation hybrid mapping with improved speed and quality control.	rh_tsp_map is a software package for computing radiation hybrid (RH) maps and for integrating physical and genetic maps. It solves the central mapping instances by reducing them to the traveling salesman problem (TSP) and using a modification of the CONCORDE package to solve the TSP instances. We present some of the features added between the initial rh_tsp_map version 1.0 and the current version 3.0, emphasizing the automation of many steps and addition of various checks designed to find problems with the input data. Iterations of improved input data followed by fast re-computation of the maps improves the quality of the final maps.
CEGMA: a pipeline to accurately annotate core genes in eukaryotic genomes.	The numbers of finished and ongoing genome projects are increasing at a rapid rate, and providing the catalog of genes for these new genomes is a key challenge. Obtaining a set of well-characterized genes is a basic requirement in the initial steps of any genome annotation process. An accurate set of genes is needed in order to learn about species-specific properties, to train gene-finding programs, and to validate automatic predictions. Unfortunately, many new genome projects lack comprehensive experimental data to derive a reliable initial set of genes.
Phylogenetic exploration of bacterial genomic rearrangements.	We present a graphical tool dedicated to the exploration of bacterial genome rearrangements. The principle of this exploration relies on the reconstruction of ancestral genomes at each internal node of a gene-order-based phylogenetic tree. This tool allows the selection of internal nodes to visualize the rearrangements between the inferred chromosome of this node and its direct descendant on the tree.
PhyloGena--a user-friendly system for automated phylogenetic annotation of unknown sequences.	Phylogenomic approaches towards functional and evolutionary annotation of unknown sequences have been suggested to be superior to those based only on pairwise local alignments. User-friendly software tools making the advantages of phylogenetic annotation available for the ever widening range of bioinformatically uninitiated biologists involved in genome/EST annotation projects are, however, not available. We were particularly confronted with this issue in the annotation of sequences from different groups of complex algae originating from secondary endosymbioses, where the identification of the phylogenetic origin of genes is often more problematic than in taxa well represented in the databases (e.g. animals, plants or fungi).
Comparative annotation of viral genomes with non-conserved gene structure.	Detecting genes in viral genomes is a complex task. Due to the biological necessity of them being constrained in length, RNA viruses in particular tend to code in overlapping reading frames. Since one amino acid is encoded by a triplet of nucleic acids, up to three genes may be coded for simultaneously in one direction. Conventional hidden Markov model (HMM)-based gene-finding algorithms may typically find it difficult to identify multiple coding regions, since in general their topologies do not allow for the presence of overlapping or nested genes. Comparative methods have therefore been restricted to likelihood ratio tests on potential regions as to being double or single coding, using the fact that the constrictions forced upon multiple-coding nucleotides will result in atypical sequence evolution. Exploiting these same constraints, we present an HMM based gene-finding program, which allows for coding in unidirectional nested and overlapping reading frames, to annotate two homologous aligned viral genomes. Our method does not insist on conserved gene structure between the two sequences, thus making it applicable for the pairwise comparison of more distantly related sequences.
Cinteny: flexible analysis and visualization of synteny and genome rearrangements in multiple organisms.	Identifying syntenic regions, i.e., blocks of genes or other markers with evolutionary conserved order, and quantifying evolutionary relatedness between genomes in terms of chromosomal rearrangements is one of the central goals in comparative genomics. However, the analysis of synteny and the resulting assessment of genome rearrangements are sensitive to the choice of a number of arbitrary parameters that affect the detection of synteny blocks. In particular, the choice of a set of markers and the effect of different aggregation strategies, which enable coarse graining of synteny blocks and exclusion of micro-rearrangements, need to be assessed. Therefore, existing tools and resources that facilitate identification, visualization and analysis of synteny need to be further improved to provide a flexible platform for such analysis, especially in the context of multiple genomes.
Analysis of read length limiting factors in Pyrosequencing chemistry.	Pyrosequencing is a bioluminometric DNA sequencing technique that measures the release of pyrophosphate during DNA synthesis. The amount of pyrophosphate is proportionally converted into visible light by a cascade of enzymatic reactions. Pyrosequencing has heretofore been used for generating short sequence reads (1-100 nucleotides) because certain factors limit the system's ability to perform longer reads accurately. In this study, we have characterized the main read length limiting factors in both three-enzyme and four-enzyme Pyrosequencing systems. A new simulation model was developed to simulate the read length of both systems based on the inhibitory factors in the chemical equations governing each enzymatic cascade. Our results indicate that nonsynchronized extension limits the obtained read length, albeit to a different extent for each system. In the four-enzyme system, nonsynchronized extension due mainly to a decrease in apyrase's efficiency in degrading excess nucleotides proves to be the main limiting factor of read length. Replacing apyrase with a washing step for removal of excess nucleotide proves to be essential in improving the read length of Pyrosequencing. The main limiting factor of the three-enzyme system is shown to be loss of DNA fragments during the washing step. If this loss is minimized to 0.1% per washing cycle, the read length of Pyrosequencing would be well beyond 300 bases.
ITS2 sequences as barcodes for identifying and analyzing spider mites (Acari: Tetranychidae).	The use of DNA barcodes, short DNA sequences from a standardized region of the genome, has recently been proposed as a tool to facilitate species identification and discovery. Here we show that second internal transcribed spacer of nuclear ribosomal DNA (rDNA-ITS2) barcodes effectively discriminate among 16 species of spider mites (Acari: Tetranychidae) from Israel. The barcode sequences of each species were unambiguously distinguishable from all other species and formed distinct, nonoverlapping monophyletic groups in the maximum-parsimony tree. Sequence divergences were generally much greater between species than within them. Using a 0.02 (2%) threshold for species diagnosis in our data set, 14 out of 16 species recognized by morphological criteria would be accurately identified. The only exceptions involved the low divergence, 0.011-0.015 (1.1-1.5%), between Tetranychus urticae and Tetranychus turkestani, where speciation may have occurred only recently. Still, these species had fixed alternative rDNA-ITS2 variants, with five diagnostic nucleotide substitutions. As a result, we tentatively conclude that rDNA-ITS2 sequence barcodes may serve as an effective tool for the identification of spider mite species and can be applicable as a diagnostic tool for quarantine and other pest management activities and decision-making. We predict that our work, together with similar efforts, will provide in the future the platform for a uniform, accurate, practical and easy-to-use method of spider mite species identification.
Low-frequency electrophoretic actuation of nanoscale optoentropic transduction mechanisms.	Inherent bistabilities within DNA-assembled fluorescent resonant energy transfer systems demonstrated time-varying optical signals in response to an electrophoretic driving force. Frequency responses of electrophoretically driven FRET systems were shown to be sequence specific. Integration of these signals over time gave near single-molecule sensitivity within a high background of autofluorescence. This research suggests that externally driven nanoscale mechanical systems may help improve information flow within morphologically intact specimens.
Master equation approach to DNA breathing in heteropolymer DNA.	After crossing an initial barrier to break the first base-pair (bp) in double-stranded DNA, the disruption of further bps is characterized by free energies up to a few k(B)T. Thermal motion within the DNA double strand therefore causes the opening of intermittent single-stranded denaturation zones, the DNA bubbles. The unzipping and zipping dynamics of bps at the two zipper forks of a bubble, where the single strand of the denatured zone joins the still intact double strand, can be monitored by single molecule fluorescence or NMR methods. We here establish a dynamic description of this DNA breathing in a heteropolymer DNA with given sequence in terms of a master equation that governs the time evolution of the joint probability distribution for the bubble size and position along the sequence. The transfer coefficients are based on the Poland-Scheraga free energy model. We derive the autocorrelation function for the bubble dynamics and the associated relaxation time spectrum. In particular, we show how one can obtain the probability densities of individual bubble lifetimes and of the waiting times between successive bubble events from the master equation. A comparison to results of a stochastic Gillespie simulation shows excellent agreement.
Pyrosequencing assay for genotyping of the Transcobalamin II 776C>G polymorphism.	The 776C>G polymorphism of the Transcobalamin II gene is located in a GC-rich region and TaqMan real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) does not yield satisfactory genotyping results. We therefore hypothesized that a method based on DNA sequencing would be needed for this single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) analysis; Pyrosequencing technology was tested for this purpose. A Pyrosequencing protocol was developed, optimized and applied to a sample of 389 Swedish senior citizens. The three genotypes CC, CG, and GG consistently yielded typical programs that were readily distinguishable from each other. The prevalence of the mutated allele in the studied Swedish population was q=0.445. It is concluded that the TC II 776C>G polymorphism can be reliably genotyped by Pyrosequencing technology.
Nosocomial Legionnaires' disease caused by Legionella pneumophila serogroup 6: implication of the sequence-based typing method (SBT).	Sequence-based typing (SBT) was used to determine the allelic profiles of 3 sporadic clinical isolates as well as 7 environmental isolates of Legionella pneumophila serogroup 6, isolated at the Karolinska Hospital during 2004. The clinical isolates were cultured from patients with nosocomial Legionnaires' disease (LD), while the environmental isolates were cultured from potable water sources of the hospital wards in the close vicinity of the 3 patients being investigated. The genes sequenced for the construction of the SBT profile included flaA, pilE, asd, mip, mompS and proA, in this pre-determined order and the allelic profile of the 10 isolates was identical (3, 13, 1, 28, 14, 9). Furthermore, 2 of the isolates, 1 clinical and 1 environmental, were analysed using the amplified fragment length polymorphism analysis (AFLP). The AFLP genotype of both isolates was congruent. Eight of 9 control L. pneumophila serogroup 6 isolates had the same SBT profile as the study isolates. We conclude that the environmental strain isolated from our hospital's drinking water is indistinguishable genotypically from the 3 clinical isolates of Legionella. However, this genotype of L. pneumophila is geographically widespread. Thus, results of genotyping must be evaluated in conjunction with the clinical and epidemiological data.
Rapid identification and classification of bacteria by 16S rDNA restriction fragment melting curve analyses (RFMCA).	The aim of this work was to evaluate restriction fragment melting curve analyses (RFMCA) as a novel approach for rapid classification of bacteria during food production. RFMCA was evaluated for bacteria isolated from sous vide food products, and raw materials used for sous vide production. We identified four major bacterial groups in the material analysed (cluster I-Streptococcus, cluster II-Carnobacterium/Bacillus, cluster III-Staphylococcus and cluster IV-Actinomycetales). The accuracy of RFMCA was evaluated by comparison with 16S rDNA sequencing. The strains satisfying the RFMCA quality filtering criteria (73%, n=57), with both 16S rDNA sequence information and RFMCA data (n=45) gave identical group assignments with the two methods. RFMCA enabled rapid and accurate classification of bacteria that is database compatible. Potential application of RFMCA in the food or pharmaceutical industry will include development of classification models for the bacteria expected in a given product, and then to build an RFMCA database as a part of the product quality control.
Multiplex SNP discrimination.	Multiplex hybridization reactions of perfectly matched duplexes and duplexes containing a single basepair mismatch (SNPs) were investigated on DNA microarrays. Effects of duplex length, G-C percentage, and relative position of the SNP on duplex hybridization and SNP resolution were determined. Our theoretical model of multiplex hybridization accurately predicts observed results and implicates target concentration as a critical variable in multiplex SNP detection.
Molecular detection of various rickettsiae in mites (acari: trombiculidae) in southern Jeolla Province, Korea.	This study revealed the presence of various rickettsial agents in mites from wild rodents collected in Southern Jeolla Province, Korea, by nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and sequence analysis of a partial citrate synthase and rickettsia outer membrane protein B genes. Rickettsial agents closely related to the Rickettsia species TwKM02, R. australis, and the Rickettsia species Cf15 were successfully identified in this study, for the first time in Korea, and R. japonica, R. akari, R. conorii, R. felis, and R. typhi were also detected, as previously described. The data presented in this paper extend knowledge on the geographic distribution of SFG rickettsiae in eastern Asia and it may necessary to consider the role of mites in rickettsial transmission.
Species diversity and relative abundance of vaginal lactic acid bacteria from women in Uganda and Korea.	Lactobacilli play an important role in maintaining vaginal health of women. The aim of this study was to compare the species richness and relative abundance of Lactobacillus and other lactic acid bacteria in women of two geographically distant countries, Uganda and Korea.
GoSh: a web-based database for goat and sheep EST sequences.	The GoSh database is a collection of 58 990 Capra hircus and Ovis aries expressed sequence tags. A perl pipeline was prepared to process sequences, and data were collected in a MySQL database. A PHP-based web interface allows browsing and querying the database. Putative single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) detection, as well as search to repeats were performed, and links to external related resources were provided. Sequences were annotated against three different databases and an algorithm was implemented to create statistics of the distribution of retrieved homologous ontologies in the Gene Ontology categories. The GoSh database is a repository of data and links related to goat and sheep expressed genes.
MPP: a microarray-to-phylogeny pipeline for analysis of gene and marker content datasets.	MPP is a Java application, encompassing both new and established algorithms, for the analysis of gene and marker content datasets arising from high-throughput microarray techniques. MPP analyses flat file output from microarray experiments to determine the probability of the presence or absence of genes or markers within a genome. MPP can construct gene or marker content datasets for a number of genomes and can use the data to estimate an evolutionary tree or network. Results from gene content analyses may be validated by comparing them to known gene contents. MPP was initially developed to analyse data derived from comparative genome hybridization (CGH) microarray experiments in fungi and bacteria. It has recently been adapted to analyse retrotransposon-based insertion polymorphism (RBIP) marker scores derived from tagged microarray marker (TAM) experiments in pea. New analytical procedures may be added easily to MPP as plugins in order to increase the scope of the software.
Forensic DNA and bioinformatics.	The field of forensic science is increasingly based on biomolecular data and many European countries are establishing forensic databases to store DNA profiles of crime scenes of known offenders and apply DNA testing. The field is boosted by statistical and technological advances such as DNA microarray sequencing, TFT biosensors, machine learning algorithms, in particular Bayesian networks, which provide an effective way of evidence organization and inference. The aim of this article is to discuss the state of art potentialities of bioinformatics in forensic DNA science. We also discuss how bioinformatics will address issues related to privacy rights such as those raised from large scale integration of crime, public health and population genetic susceptibility-to-diseases databases.
Assessing the need for sequence-based normalization in tiling microarray experiments.	Increases in microarray feature density allow the construction of so-called tiling microarrays. These arrays, or sets of arrays, contain probes targeting regions of sequenced genomes at regular genomic intervals. The unbiased nature of this approach allows for the identification of novel transcribed sequences, the localization of transcription factor binding sites (ChIP-chip), and high resolution comparative genomic hybridization, among other uses. These applications are quickly growing in popularity as tiling microarrays become more affordable. To reach maximum utility, the tiling microarray platform needs be developed to the point that 1 nt resolutions are achieved and that we have confidence in individual measurements taken at this fine of resolution. Any biases in tiling array signals must be systematically removed to achieve this goal.
Use of DNA melting simulation software for in silico diagnostic assay design: targeting regions with complex melting curves and confirmation by real-time PCR using intercalating dyes.	DNA melting curve analysis using double-stranded DNA-specific dyes such as SYTO9 produce complex and reproducible melting profiles, resulting in the detection of multiple melting peaks from a single amplicon and allowing the discrimination of different species. We compare the melting curves of several Naegleria and Cryptosporidium amplicons generated in vitro with in silico DNA melting simulations using the programs POLAND and MELTSIM., then test the utility of these programs for assay design using a genetic marker for toxin production in cyanobacteria.
Molecular haplotyping of tandem single nucleotide polymorphisms by allele-specific PCR.	BARD1 Val507Met (1592A>G) is an interesting marker for association studies on cancer risk. However, studies are scarce in the literature, probably reflecting the methodological problem imposed by the fact that next to the 1592A>G stands the 1591C>T single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP). We have designed an allele-specific PCR method capable of molecular haplotyping tandem SNPs. In the tandem SNPs haplotyping assay (tSNPh), four reverse primers are designed to be perfect matches of each potential haplotype. The forward primer is labeled with a fluorochrome. PCR products are analyzed by capillary electrophoresis. Haplotyping is performed by size calling. To ascertain the accuracy and reproducibility of the assay, we measured the level of concordance with sequencing data in 124 samples. In vitro-generated templates have been used for further testing. We developed a novel and reliable assay that permits typing two SNPs directly adjacent to each other, avoiding mutual interferences. The method is amenable to automation and high throughput. We expect that this assay will contribute to clarifying the role of BARD1 in cancer susceptibility. In addition, we suggest that tandem SNPs are potentially interesting polymorphic markers in which molecular haplotyping can be performed easily.
High-throughput identification of transcription start sites, conserved promoter motifs and predicted regulons.	Using 62 probe-level datasets obtained with a custom-designed Caulobacter crescentus microarray chip, we identify transcriptional start sites of 769 genes, 53 of which are transcribed from multiple start sites. Transcriptional start sites are identified by analyzing probe signal cross-correlation matrices created from probe pairs tiled every 5 bp upstream of the genes. Signals from probes binding the same message are correlated. The contribution of each promoter for genes transcribed from multiple promoters is identified. Knowing the transcription start site enables targeted searching for regulatory-protein binding motifs in the promoter regions of genes with similar expression patterns. We identified 27 motifs, 17 of which share no similarity to the characterized motifs of other C. crescentus transcriptional regulators. Using these motifs, we predict coregulated genes. We verified novel promoter motifs that regulate stress-response genes, including those responding to uranium challenge, a stress-response sigma factor and a stress-response noncoding RNA.
Identifying DNA sequences recognized by a transcription factor using a bacterial one-hybrid system.	Bacterial-based interaction trap systems provide a powerful method to identify interacting macromolecules. When carried out in the context of a genetic selection, interacting pairs can be rapidly isolated from large combinatorial libraries. This technology has been adapted to allow the identification of DNA-binding sequences for a transcription factor (TF) from a large randomized library. This procedure uses a library of randomized binding sites upstream of a cocistronic HIS3-URA3 reporter cassette. The URA3 reporter allows self-activating sequences to be removed from the library through counter-selection. The HIS3 reporter allows sequences that are recognized by a TF to be isolated from the library, where transcriptional activation is mediated by fusion of the TF to the alpha-subunit of RNA polymerase. This technology can be used to characterize monomeric, homodimeric and heterodimeric DNA-binding domains and, once a suitable library is constructed, binding sites can be identified in approximately 10 d. The bacterial one-hybrid system allows larger libraries to be searched than the corresponding yeast one-hybrid system and, unlike SELEX, it does not require purification of the TF(s). The complexity of the binding site libraries that can be searched using the bacterial system is, however, more limited than SELEX, and some eukaryotic factors may not express or fold efficiently in the bacterial system.
Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) allele frequency estimation in DNA pools using Pyrosequencing.	Identifying the genetic variation underlying complex disease requires analysis of many single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in a large number of samples. Several high-throughput SNP genotyping techniques are available; however, their cost promotes the use of association screening with pooled DNA. This protocol describes the estimation of SNP allele frequencies in pools of DNA using the quantitative sequencing method Pyrosequencing (PSQ). PSQ is a relatively recently described high-throughput method for genotyping, allele frequency estimation and DNA methylation analysis based on the detection of real-time pyrophosphate release during synthesis of the complementary strand to a PCR product. The protocol involves the following steps: (i) quantity and quality assessment of individual DNA samples; (ii) DNA pooling, which may be undertaken at the pre- or post-PCR stage; (iii) PCR amplification of PSQ template containing the variable sequence region of interest; and (iv) PSQ to determine the frequency of alleles at a particular SNP site. Once the quantity and quality of individual DNA samples has been assessed, the protocol usually requires a few days for setting up pre-PCR pools, depending on sample number. After PCR amplification, preparation and analysis of PCR amplicon by PSQ takes 1 h per plate.
De novo identification of LTR retrotransposons in eukaryotic genomes.	LTR retrotransposons are a class of mobile genetic elements containing two similar long terminal repeats (LTRs). Currently, LTR retrotransposons are annotated in eukaryotic genomes mainly through the conventional homology searching approach. Hence, it is limited to annotating known elements.
BranchClust: a phylogenetic algorithm for selecting gene families.	Automated methods for assembling families of orthologous genes include those based on sequence similarity scores and those based on phylogenetic approaches. The first are easy to automate but usually they do not distinguish between paralogs and orthologs or have restriction on the number of taxa. Phylogenetic methods often are based on reconciliation of a gene tree with a known rooted species tree; a limitation of this approach, especially in case of prokaryotes, is that the species tree is often unknown, and that from the analyses of single gene families the branching order between related organisms frequently is unresolved.
DNA sequencing by MALDI-TOF MS using alkali cleavage of RNA/DNA chimeras.	Approaches developed for sequencing DNA with detection by mass spectrometry use strategies that deviate from the Sanger-type methods. Procedures demonstrated so far used the sequence specificity of RNA endonucleases, as unfortunately equivalent enzymes for DNA do not exist and therefore require transcription of DNA into RNA prior to fragmentation. We have developed a novel, rapid and accurate concept for DNA sequencing using mass spectrometry and RNA/DNA chimeras and applied it to sequence mitochondrial DNA. Our method is based on the preparation of a chimeric RNA/DNA with a DNA polymerase that also incorporates ribonucleotides. Sequencing is carried out with one ribonucleotide (ATP, CTP or GTP) and the other three nucleotides in their deoxyribo-form. The product is treated with alkali, which cleaves 3' of all ribonucleotides to form a terminal 3' phosphate. Conditions have been streamlined so that molecular, biological and alkali cleavage conditions are compatible with matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight (MALDI) mass spectrometric analysis. Fragment analysis by MALDI MS provides a sequence-specific fingerprint, which allows the identification of differences between a reference and another sequence. Due to the mass profile, the position and kind of the mutation can be assigned. These differences between signatures are indicative of known, unidentified, rare and private mutations. This novel DNA sequencing protocol was applied to sequence the hypervariable region 1 (HV1) of mitochondrial DNA in 22 individuals.
ESTuber db: an online database for Tuber borchii EST sequences.	The ESTuber database (http://www.itb.cnr.it/estuber) includes 3,271 Tuber borchii expressed sequence tags (EST). The dataset consists of 2,389 sequences from an in-house prepared cDNA library from truffle vegetative hyphae, and 882 sequences downloaded from GenBank and representing four libraries from white truffle mycelia and ascocarps at different developmental stages. An automated pipeline was prepared to process EST sequences using public software integrated by in-house developed Perl scripts. Data were collected in a MySQL database, which can be queried via a php-based web interface.
Splicy: a web-based tool for the prediction of possible alternative splicing events from Affymetrix probeset data.	The Affymetrix technology is nowadays a well-established method for the analysis of gene expression profiles in cancer research studies. However, changes in gene expression levels are not the only way to link genes and disease. The existence of gene isoforms specifically linked with cancer or apoptosis is increasingly found in literature. Hence it is of great interest to associate the results of a gene expression study with updated evidences on the transcript structure and its possible variants.
Data handling strategies for high throughput pyrosequencers.	New high throughput pyrosequencers such as the 454 Life Sciences GS 20 are capable of massively parallelizing DNA sequencing providing an unprecedented rate of output data as well as potentially reducing costs. However, these new pyrosequencers bear a different error profile and provide shorter reads than those of a more traditional Sanger sequencer. These facts pose new challenges regarding how the data are handled and analyzed, in addition, the steep increase in the sequencers throughput calls for much computation power at a low cost.
Gene models from ESTs (GeneModelEST): an application on the Solanum lycopersicum genome.	The structure annotation of a genome is based either on ab initio methodologies or on similaritiy searches versus molecules that have been already annotated. Ab initio gene predictions in a genome are based on a priori knowledge of species-specific features of genes. The training of ab initio gene finders is based on the definition of a data-set of gene models. To accomplish this task the common approach is to align species-specific full length cDNA and EST sequences along the genomic sequences in order to define exon/intron structure of mRNA coding genes.
Mechanism of chimera formation during the Multiple Displacement Amplification reaction.	Multiple Displacement Amplification (MDA) is a method used for amplifying limiting DNA sources. The high molecular weight amplified DNA is ideal for DNA library construction. While this has enabled genomic sequencing from one or a few cells of unculturable microorganisms, the process is complicated by the tendency of MDA to generate chimeric DNA rearrangements in the amplified DNA. Determining the source of the DNA rearrangements would be an important step towards reducing or eliminating them.
Determination of potent antisense oligonucleotides in vitro by semiempirical rules.	The selection of effective antisense target sites on a given mRNA molecule is a major problem in the detection of target mRNA in oligonucleotide arrays. In general, antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (asODNs) of about 10-20 nucleotides (nt) in length are used. However, the demand for predicting the sequence of potent asODNs much longer than those mentioned above has been increasing. Here, we prepared 40-nt asODNs directed against fluorescence-labeled green fluorescent protein (GFP) mRNA and quantified their hybridization efficiencies by fluorescence microscopy. We found that the hybridization efficiency depended on the TC content or the minimum free energy of the asODNs. On the basis of these findings, a semiempirical parameter called accessibility score was introduced to predict the potency of asODNs. The results of this study aided in the development of an effective two-step procedure for determining mRNA accessibility, namely, the computer-aided selection of asODN binding sites using an accessibility score followed by an experimental procedure for measuring the hybridization efficiencies between the selected asODNs and the target mRNA by fluorescence microscopy.
800,000 year old mammoth DNA, modern elephant DNA or PCR artefact?	Poulakakis and colleagues (Poulakakis et al. 2006: Biol. Lett. 2, 451-454), report the recovery of 'authentic' mammoth DNA from an 800,000-year-old fragment of bone excavated on the island of Crete. In light of results from other ancient DNA studies that indicate how DNA survival is unlikely in samples, which are recovered from warm environments and are relatively old (e.g. more than 100,000 years), these findings come as a great surprise. Here, we show that problems exist with the methodological approaches used in the study. First, the nested PCR technique as reported is nonsensical--one of the second round 'nested' primers falls outside the amplicon of the first round PCR. More worryingly, the binding region of one of the first round primers (Elcytb320R) falls within the short 43 base pair reported mammoth sequence, specifically covering two of the three reportedly diagnostic Elephas polymorphisms. Finally, we demonstrate using a simple BLAST search in GenBank that the claimed 'uniquely derived character state' for mammoths is in fact also found within modern elephants.
Does the 43 bp sequence from an 800,000 year old cretan dwarf elephantid really rewrite the textbook on mammoths?	Pigmy elephants inhabited the islands from the Mediterranean region during the Pleistocene period but became extinct in the course of the Holocene. Despite striking distinctive anatomical characteristics related to insularity, some similarities with the lineage of extant Asian elephants have suggested that pigmy elephants could be most probably seen as members of the genus Elephas. Poulakakis et al (2006) have recently challenged this view by recovering a short mtDNA sequence from an 800 000 year old fossil of the Cretan pigmy elephant (Elephas creticus). According to the authors of this study, a deep taxonomic revision of Cretan dwarf elephants would be needed, as the sequence exhibits clear affinities with woolly mammoth haplotypes. However, we point here many aspects that seriously weaken the strength of the ancient DNA evidence reported.
Utility of DNA taxonomy and barcoding for the inference of larval community structure in morphologically cryptic Chironomus (Diptera) species.	Biodiversity studies require species level analyses for the accurate assessment of community structures. However, while specialized taxonomic knowledge is only rarely available for routine identifications, DNA taxonomy and DNA barcoding could provide the taxonomic basis for ecological inferences. In this study, we assessed the community structure of sediment dwelling, morphologically cryptic Chironomus larvae in the Rhine-valley plain/Germany, comparing larval type classification, cytotaxonomy, DNA taxonomy and barcoding. While larval type classification performed poorly, cytotaxonomy and DNA-based methods yielded comparable results: detrended correspondence analysis and permutation analyses indicated that the assemblages are not randomly but competitively structured. However, DNA taxonomy identified an additional species that could not be resolved by the traditional method. We argue that DNA-based identification methods such as DNA barcoding can be a valuable tool to increase accuracy, objectivity and comparability of the taxonomic assessment in biodiversity and community ecology studies.
A verification protocol for the probe sequences of Affymetrix genome arrays reveals high probe accuracy for studies in mouse, human and rat.	The Affymetrix GeneChip technology uses multiple probes per gene to measure its expression level. Individual probe signals can vary widely, which hampers proper interpretation. This variation can be caused by probes that do not properly match their target gene or that match multiple genes. To determine the accuracy of Affymetrix arrays, we developed an extensive verification protocol, for mouse arrays incorporating the NCBI RefSeq, NCBI UniGene Unique, NIA Mouse Gene Index, and UCSC mouse genome databases.
Advanced sequencing technologies and their wider impact in microbiology.	In the past 10 years, microbiology has undergone a revolution that has been driven by access to cheap high-throughput DNA sequencing. It was not long ago that the cloning and sequencing of a target gene could take months or years, whereas now this entire process has been replaced by a 10 min Internet search of a public genome database. There has been no single innovation that has initiated this rapid technological change; in fact, the core chemistry of DNA sequencing is the same as it was 30 years ago. Instead, progress has been driven by large sequencing centers that have incrementally industrialized the Sanger sequencing method. A side effect of this industrialization is that large-scale sequencing has moved out of small research labs, and the vast majority of sequence data is now generated by large genome centers. Recently, there have been advances in technology that will enable high-throughput genome sequencing to be established in research labs using bench-top instrumentation. These new technologies are already being used to explore the vast microbial diversity in the natural environment and the untapped genetic variation that can occur in bacterial species. It is expected that these powerful new methods will open up new questions to genomic investigation and will also allow high-throughput sequencing to be more than just a discovery exercise but also a routine assay for hypothesis testing. While this review will concentrate on microorganisms, many of the important arguments about the need to measure and understand variation at the species, population and ecosystem level will hold true for many other biological systems.
Interpreting physiological responses to environmental change through gene expression profiling.	Identification of differentially expressed genes in response to environmental change offers insights into the roles of the transcriptome in the regulation of physiological responses. A variety of methods are now available to implement large-scale gene expression screens, and each method has specific advantages and disadvantages. Construction of custom cDNA microarrays remains the most popular route to implement expression screens in the non-model organisms favored by comparative physiologists, and we highlight some factors that should be considered when embarking along this path. Using a carp cDNA microarray, we have undertaken a broad, system-wide gene expression screen to investigate the physiological mechanisms underlying cold and hypoxia acclimation. This dataset provides a starting point from which to explore a range of specific mechanistic hypotheses at all levels of organization, from individual biochemical pathways to the level of the whole organism. We demonstrate the utility of two data analysis methods, Gene Ontology profiling and rank-based statistical methods, to summarize the probable physiological function of acclimation-induced gene expression changes, and to prioritize specific genes as candidates for further study.
Characterization of different sequences of DNA on si substrate by atomic force microscopy and gold nanoparticle labeling.	In this paper, different sequences of single-strand DNA modified on Si substrate were studied taking advantages of the high resolution of atomic force microscopy (AFM) and signal enhancement of gold nanoparticles. Two sequences of single-strand DNA, as a model, were immobilized on Si substrate and hybridized with their sequence-complementary DNA molecules modified respectively with two sizes of gold nanoparticles. The surface of Si substrate was characterized through detecting the size and coverage of gold nanoparticles by AFM. Results demonstrated that different sizes of gold nanoparticles represented different sequences of DNA immobilized on the substrate. Density and distribution of DNA on Si substrate can be investigated by AFM imaging using gold nanoparticles as topographic markers. Compared to other sensitive methods such as fluorescence energy transfer, X-ray photoelectron, and radiolabeling experiments, this approach is advantageous in terms of high spatial resolution in sub-micrometer scale. This new method will be beneficial in the characterization of DNA immobilized on chip surfaces.
PREDetector: a new tool to identify regulatory elements in bacterial genomes.	In the post-genomic area, the prediction of transcription factor regulons by position weight matrix-based programmes is a powerful approach to decipher biological pathways and to modelize regulatory networks in bacteria. The main difficulty once a regulon prediction is available is to estimate its reliability prior to start expensive experimental validations and therefore trying to find a way how to identify true positive hits from an endless list of potential target genes of a regulatory protein. Here we introduce PREDetector (Prokaryotic Regulatory Elements Detector), a tool developed for predicting regulons of DNA-binding proteins in bacterial genomes that, beside the automatic prediction, scoring and positioning of potential binding sites and their respective target genes in annotated bacterial genomes, it also provides an easy way to estimate the thresholds where to find reliable possible new target genes. PREDetector can be downloaded freely at http://www.montefiore.ulg.ac.be/~hiard/PreDetector/PreDetector.php.
Generalized correlation functions and their applications in selection of optimal multiple spaced seeds for homology search.	The Goulden-Jackson cluster method is a powerful method to calculate the probability of occurrences of a pattern or set of patterns in a sequence. If the patterns contain wildcard characters, however, the size of the connector matrix grows exponentially with the number of wildcards. Here we show that average correlation c(z) is a good predicator of hitting probability q (n), and the generalized correlation function (z) can be used to approximate c(z) efficiently. We apply the method to the problem of optimal multiple spaced seed selection for homology search. We reexamine the concept of optimal sensitivity of spaced seeds and show that it is better to select optimal seeds based on some average properties, such as c(1), which is the expectation of the first hitting length. Higher order approximations can also be constructed easily. Tests on arbitrary large genomic data with multiple seeds show that the optimal multiple seeds selected by the methods are indeed more sensitive. The methods provide a theoretical background on which various empirical observations can be unified and further heuristic search methods can be developed.
Profiling phylogenetic informativeness.	The resolution of four controversial topics in phylogenetic experimental design hinges upon the informativeness of characters about the historical relationships among taxa. These controversies regard the power of different classes of phylogenetic character, the relative utility of increased taxonomic versus character sampling, the differentiation between lack of phylogenetic signal and a historical rapid radiation, and the design of taxonomically broad phylogenetic studies optimized by taxonomically sparse genome-scale data. Quantification of the informativeness of characters for resolution of phylogenetic hypotheses during specified historical epochs is key to the resolution of these controversies. Here, such a measure of phylogenetic informativeness is formulated. The optimal rate of evolution of a character to resolve a dated four-taxon polytomy is derived. By scaling the asymptotic informativeness of a character evolving at a nonoptimal rate by the derived asymptotic optimum, and by normalizing so that net phylogenetic informativeness is equivalent for all rates when integrated across all of history, an informativeness profile across history is derived. Calculation of the informativeness per base pair allows estimation of the cost-effectiveness of character sampling. Calculation of the informativeness per million years allows comparison across historical radiations of the utility of a gene for the inference of rapid adaptive radiation. The theory is applied to profile the phylogenetic informativeness of the genes BRCA1, RAG1, GHR, and c-myc from a muroid rodent sequence data set. Bounded integrations of the phylogenetic profile of these genes over four epochs comprising the diversifications of the muroid rodents, the mammals, the lobe-limbed vertebrates, and the early metazoans demonstrate the differential power of these genes to resolve the branching order among ancestral lineages. This measure of phylogenetic informativeness yields a new kind of information for evaluation of phylogenetic experiments. It conveys the utility of the addition of characters a phylogenetic study and it provides a basis for deciding whether appropriate phylogenetic power has been applied to a polytomy that is proposed to be a rapid radiation. Moreover, it provides a quantitative measure of the capacity of a gene to resolve soft polytomies.
Genome sequence and identification of candidate vaccine antigens from the animal pathogen Dichelobacter nodosus.	Dichelobacter nodosus causes ovine footrot, a disease that leads to severe economic losses in the wool and meat industries. We sequenced its 1.4-Mb genome, the smallest known genome of an anaerobe. It differs markedly from small genomes of intracellular bacteria, retaining greater biosynthetic capabilities and lacking any evidence of extensive ongoing genome reduction. Comparative genomic microarray studies and bioinformatic analysis suggested that, despite its small size, almost 20% of the genome is derived from lateral gene transfer. Most of these regions seem to be associated with virulence. Metabolic reconstruction indicated unsuspected capabilities, including carbohydrate utilization, electron transfer and several aerobic pathways. Global transcriptional profiling and bioinformatic analysis enabled the prediction of virulence factors and cell surface proteins. Screening of these proteins against ovine antisera identified eight immunogenic proteins that are candidate antigens for a cross-protective vaccine.
SPACER: identification of cis-regulatory elements with non-contiguous critical residues.	Many transcription factors bind to sites that are long and loosely related to each other. De novo identification of such motifs is computationally challenging. In this article, we propose a novel semi-greedy algorithm over the space of all IUPAC degenerate strings to identify the most over-represented highly degenerate motifs.
On the classification of a small imbalanced cytogenetic image database.	Solving a multiclass classification task using a small imbalanced database of patterns of high dimension is difficult due to the curse-of-dimensionality and the bias of the training toward the majority classes. Such a problem has arisen while diagnosing genetic abnormalities by classifying a small database of fluorescence in situ hybridization signals of types having different frequencies of occurrence. We propose and experimentally study using the cytogenetic domain two solutions to the problem. The first is hierarchical decomposition of the classification task, where each hierarchy level is designed to tackle a simpler problem which is represented by classes that are approximately balanced. The second solution is balancing the data by up-sampling the minority classes accompanied by dimensionality reduction. Implemented by the naive Bayesian classifier or the multilayer perceptron neural network, both solutions have diminished the problem and contributed to accuracy improvement. In addition, the experiments suggest that coping with the smallness of the data is more beneficial than dealing with its imbalance.
Gradient-based optimization of kernel-target alignment for sequence kernels applied to bacterial gene start detection.	Biological data mining using kernel methods can be improved by a task-specific choice of the kernel function. Oligo kernels for genomic sequence analysis have proven to have a high discriminative power and to provide interpretable results. Oligo kernels that consider subsequences of different lengths can be combined and parameterized to increase their flexibility. For adapting these parameters efficiently, gradient-based optimization of the kernel-target alignment is proposed. The power of this new, general model selection procedure and the benefits of fitting kernels to problem classes are demonstrated by adapting oligo kernels for bacterial gene start detection.
Evolution under reversals: parsimony and conservation of common intervals.	In comparative genomics, gene order data is often modeled as signed permutations. A classical problem for genome comparison is to detect common intervals in permutations, that is, genes that are colocalized in several species, indicating that they remained grouped during evolution. A second largely studied problem related to gene order is to compute a minimum scenario of reversals that transforms a signed permutation into another. Several studies began to mix the two problems and it was observed that their results are not always compatible: Often, parsimonious scenarios of reversals break common intervals. If a scenario does not break any common interval, it is called perfect. In two recent studies, Brard et al. defined a class of permutations for which building a perfect scenario of reversals sorting a permutation was achieved in polynomial time and stated as an open question whether it is possible to decide, given a permutation, if there exists a minimum scenario of reversals that is perfect. In this paper, we give a solution to this problem and prove that this widens the class of permutations addressed by the aforementioned studies. We implemented and tested this algorithm on gene order data of chromosomes from several mammal species and we compared it to other methods. The algorithm helps to choose among several possible scenarios of reversals and indicates that the minimum scenario of reversals is not always the most plausible.
Prediction of transcription factor binding sites using ChIP-chip and phylogenetic footprinting data.	We present an algorithm for predicting transcription factor binding sites based on ChIP-chip and phylogenetic footprinting data. Our algorithm is robust against low promoter sequence similarity and motif rearrangements, because it does not depend on multiple sequence alignments. This, in turn, allows us to incorporate information from more distant species. Representative random data sets are used to estimate the score significance. Our algorithm is fully automatic, and does not require human intervention. On a recent S. cerevisiae data set, it achieves higher accuracy than the previously best algorithms. Adaptive ChIP-chip threshold and the modular positional bias score are two general features of our algorithm that increase motif prediction accuracy and could be implemented in other algorithms as well. In addition, since our algorithm works partly orthogonally to other algorithms, combining several algorithms can increase prediction accuracy even further. Specifically, our method finds 6 motifs not found by the 2nd best algorithm.
Computing the reversal distance between genomes in the presence of multi-gene families via binary integer programming.	Hannenhalli and Pevzner developed the first polynomial-time algorithm for the combinatorial problem of sorting signed genomic data. Their algorithm determines the minimum number of reversals required for rearranging a genome to another -but only in the absence of gene duplicates. However, duplicates often account for 40% of a genome. In this paper, we show how to extend Hannenhalli and Pevzner's approach to deal with genomes with multi-gene families. We propose a new heuristic algorithm to compute the nearest reversal distance between two genomes with multi-gene families via binary integer programming. The experimental results on both synthetic and real biological data demonstrate that the proposed algorithm is able to find the reversal distance with high accuracy.
Stacking heterogeneity: a model for the sequence dependent melting cooperativity of duplex DNA.	A microscopic Potts-like one-dimensional model with many particle interactions [referred as the generalized model of polypeptide chains (GMPCs)] is developed to investigate cooperativity of DNA sequence dependent melting. For modeling sequence, regular homogeneous sequences were arranged in heterogeneous blocks of various lengths. Within the framework of the GMPC the authors show that the inclusion of stacking interaction heterogeneity relative to homogeneous hydrogen bond interactions leads to an unexpected and quite remarkable increase in melting cooperativity for small blocks. In some cases this tendency persists for long blocks having sharp sequence heterogeneity.
Leukemia in Cardio-facio-cutaneous (CFC) syndrome: a patient with a germline mutation in BRAF proto-oncogene.	Cardio-facio-cutaneous (CFC) syndrome is a multiple congenital anomaly/mental retardation syndrome characterized by a distinctive facial appearance, ectodermal abnormalities, and heart defects. Clinically, it overlaps with both Noonan syndrome and Costello syndrome, which are caused by mutations in 2 genes that encode molecules of the RAS/MAPK (mitogen activated protein kinase) pathway (PTPN11 and HRAS, respectively). Recently, mutations in KRAS, BRAF, and MEK1/2 have been identified in patients with CFC syndrome. Somatic mutations in KRAS and BRAF have been identified in various tumors. In contrast, the association with malignancy has not been noticed in CFC syndrome. Here we report a 9-year-old boy diagnosed with CFC syndrome and acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Sequencing analysis of the entire coding region of KRAS and BRAF showed a de novo germline BRAF E501G (1502A-->G) mutation. Molecular diagnosis and careful observations should be considered in children with CFC syndrome because they have germline mutations in proto-oncogenes and might develop malignancy.
Rhabdomyosarcoma in a patient with Noonan syndrome phenotype and review of the literature.	An increased risk of different types of malignancy has been reported in patients with Noonan syndrome (NS). We describe a patient with short stature, dysmorphic features, developmental delay, and congenital cardiomyopathy. At 5 years old, he presented with abdominal pain, constipation, and evaluation with ultrasound and computed tomography scan demonstrated the presence of an abdominal mass. Total resection of the mass and consequent histology revealed an embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma. Rhabdomyosarcoma is a rare tumor in NS patients and to the best of our knowledge only 2 cases have been reported so far. The presentation underlines the importance of frequent follow-up of patients with NS, since the incidence of malignancy is low but existing.
A design of a parallel architecture for solving exact matching problem on DNA molecules.	This paper describes a parallel algorithm and its needed architecture for solving exact string matching problem on DNA molecules. The parallel algorithm is considered much more faster than sequential algorithms used to perform exact string matching; the whole matching process between a given string and a pattern is performed in only one clock cycle by activating a number of processing elements and grouping them into clusters that perform the comparison operation between the Pattern and the string simultaneously. A simple parallel architecture is also presented as the algorithms is performed using this parallel architecture. The system is considered a step towards a complete parallel processing architecture to solve computationally intensive applications of DNA.
Short report: rare Plasmodium falciparum merozoite surface protein 1 19-kda (msp-1(19)) haplotypes identified in Mali using high-throughput genotyping methods.	Genetic diversity in malaria vaccine antigens may compromise malaria vaccine efficacy, so it is important to understand this diversity and the processes that generate it. By applying new high-throughput genotyping methods to a large sample of infections from Mali (N = 1369), seven new 19-kDa merozoite surface protein 1 (MSP-1(19)) haplotypes were identified. Herein we report the sequences of these new haplotypes and discuss their possible origins. Although they are present in < 1% of the samples examined, the existence of these rare haplotypes reveals a greater degree of diversity at this locus than previously reported and highlights the potential for Plasmodium to evolve under selective pressure from the immune system and from such interventions as vaccines and drugs.
Comparative analysis of long DNA sequences by per element information content using different contexts.	Features of a DNA sequence can be found by compressing the sequence under a suitable model; good compression implies low information content. Good DNA compression models consider repetition, differences between repeats, and base distributions. From a linear DNA sequence, a compression model can produce a linear information sequence. Linear space complexity is important when exploring long DNA sequences of the order of millions of bases. Compressing a sequence in isolation will include information on self-repetition. Whereas compressing a sequence Y in the context of another X can find what new information X gives about Y. This paper presents a methodology for performing comparative analysis to find features exposed by such models.
Constrained hidden Markov models for population-based haplotyping.	Haplotype Reconstruction is the problem of resolving the hidden phase information in genotype data obtained from laboratory measurements. Solving this problem is an important intermediate step in gene association studies, which seek to uncover the genetic basis of complex diseases. We propose a novel approach for haplotype reconstruction based on constrained hidden Markov models. Models are constructed by incrementally refining and regularizing the structure of a simple generative model for genotype data under Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium.
Techniques for multi-genome synteny analysis to overcome assembly limitations.	Genome scale synteny analysis, the analysis of relative gene-order conservation between species, can provide key insights into evolutionary chromosomal dynamics, rearrangement rates between species, and speciation analysis. With the rapid availability of multiple genomes, there is a need for efficient solutions to aid in comparative syntenic analysis. Current methods rely on homology assessment and multiple alignment based solutions to determine homologs of genetic markers between species and to infer syntenic relationships. One of the primary challenges facing multi-genome syntenic analysis is the uncertainty posed by genome assembly data with un-sequenced gaps and possible assembly errors. Currently, manual intervention is necessary to tune and correct the results of homology assessment and synteny inference. This paper presents a novel automated approach to overcome some of these limitations. It uses a graph based algorithm to infer sub-graphs denoting synteny chains with the objective of choosing the best locations for homologous elements, in the presence of paralogs, in order to maximize synteny. These synteny chains are expanded by merging sub-graphs based on various user defined thresholds for micro-syntenic scrambling. This approach comprehends and accommodates for contig and scaffold gaps in the assembly to determine homologous genetic elements that might either fall in unsequenced assembly gaps or lie on the edges of sequenced segments or on small fragments. Furthermore, it provides an automated solution for breakpoint analysis and a comparative study of chromosomal rearrangements between species. This approach was applied to a comparative study involving Drosophila.melanogaster and Drosophila.pseudoobscura genomes, as an example, and has been useful in analyzing inter-species syntenic relationships.
E. coli promoter prediction using feed-forward neural networks.	E. coli promoter recognition is an area of great interest in bioinformatics. In this paper, we describe the implementation of a feed forward neural network to predict the E. coli promoter. According to the sequence conservation, some sequences with 60 bases are selected as positive samples and some corresponding non-promoters from E. coli coding areas are selected as negative samples, and a classifier based on feed forward neural network is trained. Results show that feed forward neural networks can extract the statistical characteristics of promoters more effectively, and that coding with four dimensions for nucleic acid data is superior to two dimensions. Another result demonstrated here is that the number of hidden layers seems to have no significant effect on E. coli promoter prediction precision. The research results in this paper can provide reference for promoter recognition research.
Robust mixture model clustering of DNA binding sites.	Nucleotide sequences contain motifs that preserved through evolution because they are important to the structure or function of the molecules. DNA binding site analysis is an important issue in biology experiments as well as in computational methods. To find DNA binding sites that bind to specific transcription factors, we develop a robust mixed effect mixture model (RMEMM). The DNA sequences are represented as mixed effect model of position specific frequency, considering the relationship of frequency between positions. The results show that the mean effect is similar to position-specific scoring matrices (PSSM), providing a new view of the sequence. This model is robust to outliers or data with a bit large tails on distribution.
Polony DNA sequencing.	Polony DNA sequencing provides an inexpensive, accurate, high-throughput way to resequence genomes of interest by comparison to a reference genome. Mate-paired in vitro shotgun genomic libraries are produced and clonally amplified on microbeads by emulsion PCR. These serve as templates for sequencing by fluorescent nonamer ligation reactions on a microscope slide. Each sequencing run results in millions of 26-bp reads that can be aligned to the reference genome, allowing the identification of differences between sequences.
The Human Gene Mutation Database (HGMD) and its exploitation in the study of mutational mechanisms.	The Human Gene Mutation Database (HGMD) constitutes a comprehensive core collection of data on germ-line mutations in nuclear genes underlying or associated with human inherited disease (http://www.hgmd.org). Data cataloged include single base-pair substitutions in coding, regulatory, and splicing-relevant regions, microdeletions and microinsertions, indels, and triplet repeat expansions, as well as gross gene deletions, insertions, duplications, and complex rearrangements. Each mutation is entered into HGMD only once, in order to avoid confusion between recurrent and identical-by-descent lesions. By June 2005, the database contained in excess of 53,000 different lesions detected in 2029 different nuclear genes, with new entries currently accumulating at a rate in excess of 5000 per annum. HGMD includes cDNA reference sequences, now provided for more than 90% of the listed genes, splice junction data, disease-associated and functional polymorphisms, and links to data present in publicly available online locus-specific mutation databases.
An introduction to recognizing functional domains.	This unit provides an overview of issues involved in domain recognition in protein and DNA sequences. It opens with a discussion of the two primary methods of domain representation, namely consensus sequences and alignment matrices (e.g., the log-odds matrix). The unit continues with a brief overview of some of the resources available for identifying functional domains in nucleotide sequences (e.g., TRANSFAC). In addition, it reviews databases such as Pfam, InterPro and Blocks, which are available for protein analysis.
Using Weeder for the discovery of conserved transcription factor binding sites.	One of the greatest challenges facing modern molecular biology is the understanding of the complex mechanisms regulating gene expression. A fundamental step in this process requires the characterization of motifs involved in the regulation of gene expression at transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. In particular, transcription is modulated by the interaction of transcription factors with their corresponding binding sites. Weeder is a software package freely available for non commercial users as a stand-alone or Web-based application for the automatic discovery of conserved motifs in a set of related DNA sequences from coregulated genes. The motifs found are likely to represent instances of binding sites for some common transcription factor regulating the genes of the set. The program has been designed to make its usage as simple as possible and to require very little prior knowledge about the length and conservation of the motifs to be found.
Getting a tree fast: Neighbor Joining, FastME, and distance-based methods.	Neighbor Joining (NJ), FastME, and other distance-based programs including BIONJ, WEIGHBOR, and (to some extent) FITCH, are fast methods to build phylogenetic trees. This makes them particularly effective for large-scale studies or for bootstrap analysis, which require runs on multiple data sets. Like maximum likelihood methods, distance methods are based on a sequence evolution model that is used to estimate the matrix of pairwise evolutionary distances. Computer simulations indicate that the topological accuracy of FastME is best, followed by FITCH, WEIGHBOR, and BIONJ, while NJ is worse. Moreover, FastME is even faster than NJ with large data sets. Best-distance methods are equivalent to parsimony in most cases, but become more accurate when the molecular clock is strongly violated or in the presence of long (e.g., outgroup) branches. This unit describes how to use distance-based methods, focusing on NJ (the most popular) and FastME (the most efficient today). It also describes how to estimate evolutionary distances from DNA and proteins, how to perform bootstrap analysis, and how to use CLUSTAL to compute both a sequence alignment and a phylogenetic tree.
Using bioinformatics tools for the sequence analysis of immunoglobulins and T cell receptors.	The huge potential repertoire of 10(12) immunoglobulins and 10(12) T cell receptors per individual results from complex mechanisms of combinatorial diversity between the variable (V), diversity (D), and junction (J) genes, nucleotide deletions and insertions (N-diversity) at the junctions and, for the immunoglobulins, somatic hypermutations. The accurate analysis of rearranged immunoglobulin and T cell receptor sequences, and the annotation of the junctions, therefore represent a huge challenge. The IMGT Scientific chart rules, based on the IMGT-ONTOLOGY concepts, were the prerequisites for the implementation of the IMGT/V-QUEST and IMGT/JunctionAnalysis tools. IMGT/V-QUEST analyzes germline V and rearranged V-J or V-D-J nucleotide sequences. IMGT/JunctionAnalysis is the first tool that automatically analyzes the complex junctions in detail. These interactive tools are easy to use and freely available on the Web (http://imgt.cines.fr), either separately or integrated.
Nested PCRs and sequencing of nuclear ITS-rDNA fragments detect three Leishmania species of gerbils in sandflies from Iranian foci of zoonotic cutaneous leishmaniasis.	To identify and understand the natural transmission cycles of Leishmania in Iranian sandflies.
A rapid and robust sequence-based genotyping method for BoLA-DRB3 alleles in large numbers of heterozygous cattle.	The BoLA-DRB3 gene is a highly polymorphic major histocompatibility complex class II gene of cattle with over one hundred alleles reported. Most of the polymorphisms are located in exon 2, which encodes the peptide-binding cleft, and these sequence differences play a role in variability of immune responsiveness and disease resistance. However, the high degree of polymorphism in exon 2 leads to difficulty in accurately genotyping cattle, especially heterozygous animals. In this study, we have improved and simplified an earlier sequence-based typing method to easily and reliably genotype cattle for BoLA-DRB3. In contrast to the earlier method, which used a nested primer set to amplify exon 2 followed by sequencing with internal primers, the new method uses only internal primers for both amplification and sequencing, which results in high-quality sequence across the entire exon. The haplofinder software, which assigns alleles from the heterozygous sequence, now has a pre-processing step that uses a consensus of all known alleles and checks for errors in base calling, thus improving the ability to process large numbers of samples. In addition, advances in sequencing technology have reduced the requirement for manual editing and improved the clarity of heterozygous base calls, resulting in longer and clearer sequence reads. Taken together, this has resulted in a rapid and robust method for genotyping large numbers of heterozygous samples for BoLA-DRB3 polymorphisms. Over 400 Holstein-Charolais cattle have now been genotyped for BoLA-DRB3 using this approach.
Epidemiology of invasive methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus clones collected in France in 2006 and 2007.	We conducted a prospective multicenter study of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) isolates, including the first five consecutive clinical isolates, collected between September 2006 and February 2007 in 23 hospitals located throughout France (Fig. 1). The 111 isolates were tested for their antibiotic susceptibility patterns and were extensively characterized by screening for drug resistance and agr alleles, multilocus sequence typing (ST), staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec (SCCmec) typing, spa typing, and PCR profiling of 21 toxin genes. Clones were designated by their ST followed by their SCCmec type (I to VI). The Lyon clone ST8-IV or ST8-IV(variant) (n = 77; 69.4%) was widely distributed. Four minor clones were also detected, namely, the "classical" Pediatric clone ST5-IV (n = 9; 8.1%), the "new" Pediatric clone ST5-VI (n = 8; 7.2%), the clone Geraldine ST5-I(truncated) (n = 7; 6.3%), and the European clone ST80-IV (n = 4; 3.6%). The six other isolates were related to five rare clones. Relative to that of other European countries, the situation in France is marked by the predominance of a specific major clone and the worrying emergence of minor clones with enhanced virulence and new antibiotic susceptibility profiles.
Identification of a new HLA-Cw*07 allele, HLA-Cw*0743, from a Chinese hematopoietic stem cell donor.	A new allele of the human leukocyte antigen C (HLA-C) locus was identified during routine HLA typing of a Chinese hematopoietic stem cell donor in Beijing, China. Sequence analysis of exons 2 and 3 of the HLA-C gene revealed the novel polymorphism. The closest matched allele was HLA-Cw*0710. A comparison of the two alleles showed that HLA-Cw*0743 carried a nucleotide substitution of C to A at codon 99 in exon 3, resulting in an amino acid substitution of serine to tyrosine with no obvious change in protein structure.
Multilocus sequence typing of Campylobacter jejuni isolates from humans, chickens, raw milk, and environmental water in Quebec, Canada.	Molecular strain typing is essential for deciphering the epidemiology of Campylobacter jejuni infections. We applied two different methods, multilocus sequence typing (MLST) and analysis of the flaA short variable repeat (SVR), to 289 isolates (163 human, 56 chicken, 34 raw milk, and 36 environmental water isolates) collected in the province of Qubec, Canada, over 3 years; in addition, the analysis included the pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) typing results for a subset of 131 isolates studied previously. MLST defined 96 sequence types (STs) and 20 clonal complexes (CCs), including 49 STs (73 isolates, 25%) and 39 alleles not previously documented in an international database. The frequency of new STs was significantly higher among water isolates than among isolates from other sources (18/36 [50%] and 55/253 [22%], respectively; P < 0.001). Nine of the 10 most prevalent CCs included isolates from humans and at least one other source; five CCs comprised exclusively or mostly human and chicken isolates. However, water and milk were the predominant nonhuman sources among the remaining CCs, suggesting that sporadic C. jejuni infections in humans may frequently arise from sources other than chickens. All three typing systems were discriminatory (discriminatory index > 0.9). Among 131 isolates analyzed by PFGE, each of the 20 types represented by two or more isolates corresponded to a single CC. In contrast, among the 14 most prevalent types detected by analysis of the flaA SVR (5 to 27 isolates each), 8 (57%) included isolates that represented multiple different CCs. The basis for these discordant results was uncertain. Antimicrobial resistance was randomly distributed among the CCs and appeared to be more closely related to the source of an isolate than its genotype. Although MLST is labor-intensive and expensive, it remains the single best method for the genotyping of C. jejuni isolates and deciphering the epidemiologic relationships among isolates.
Nucleotide capacitance calculation for DNA sequencing.	Using a first-principles linear response theory, the capacitance of the DNA nucleotides, adenine, cytosine, guanine, and thymine, are calculated. The difference in the capacitance between the nucleotides is studied with respect to conformational distortion. The result suggests that although an alternate current capacitance measurement of a single-stranded DNA chain threaded through a nanogap electrode may not be sufficient to be used as a standalone method for rapid DNA sequencing, the capacitance of the nucleotides should be taken into consideration in any GHz-frequency electric measurements and may also serve as an additional criterion for identifying the DNA sequence.
Minority human immunodeficiency virus type 1 variants in antiretroviral-naive persons with reverse transcriptase codon 215 revertant mutations.	T215 revertant mutations such as T215C/D/E/S that evolve from the nucleoside reverse transcriptase (RT) inhibitor mutations T215Y/F have been found in about 3% of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) isolates from newly diagnosed HIV-1-infected persons. We used a newly developed sequencing method-ultradeep pyrosequencing (UDPS; 454 Life Sciences)--to determine the frequency with which T215Y/F or other RT inhibitor resistance mutations could be detected as minority variants in samples from untreated persons that contain T215 revertants ("revertant" samples) compared with samples from untreated persons that lack such revertants ("control" samples). Among the 22 revertant and 29 control samples, UDPS detected a mean of 3.8 and 4.8 additional RT amino acid mutations, respectively. In 6 of 22 (27%) revertant samples and in 4 of 29 control samples (14%; P = 0.4), UDPS detected one or more RT inhibitor resistance mutations. T215Y or T215F was not detected in any of the revertant or control samples; however, 4 of 22 revertant samples had one or more T215 revertants that were detected by UDPS but not by direct PCR sequencing. The failure to detect viruses with T215Y/F in the 22 revertant samples in this study may result from the overwhelming replacement of transmitted T215Y variants by the more fit T215 revertants or from the primary transmission of a T215 revertant in a subset of persons with T215 revertants.
A new and rapid genotypic assay for the detection of neuraminidase inhibitor resistant influenza A viruses of subtype H1N1, H3N2, and H5N1.	The neuraminidase of influenza viruses is the target of the inhibitors oseltamivir and zanamivir. Recent reports on influenza viruses with reduced susceptibility to neuraminidase inhibitors (NAI) are a cause for concern. Several amino acid substitutions, each as a consequence of one single nucleotide mutation, are known to confer resistance to NAI. An increase of NAI-resistant viruses appears to be likely as a result of a wider application of NAI for treatment and prophylaxis of seasonal influenza infections. Monitoring the occurrence and spread of resistant viruses is an important task. Therefore, RT-PCR assays were developed with subsequent pyrosequencing analysis (PSQ-PCR). These assays allow a rapid, high-throughput and cost-effective screening of subtype A/H1N1, A/H3N2, and A/H5N1 viruses. Various specimens such as respiratory swabs, allantoic fluid, or cell-propagated viruses can be used and results are available within hours. Several A/H1N1, A/H3N2, and A/H5N1 viruses isolated from human and avian specimens were tested to evaluate the method. Positive controls encoding resistance-associated mutations were created using site-directed mutagenesis. The results obtained with these controls showed that the assay can discriminate clearly the wild-type virus from a mutant virus. The detection limit of minor virus variants within the viral quasispecies amounts to 10%.
Distribution of pneumococcal surface protein A families 1 and 2 among Streptococcus pneumoniae isolates from children in finland who had acute otitis media or were nasopharyngeal carriers.	PspA is a structurally variable surface protein important to the virulence of pneumococci. PspAs are serologically cross-reactive and exist as two major families. In this study, we determined the distribution of PspA families 1 and 2 among pneumococcal strains isolated from the middle ear fluid (MEF) of children with acute otitis media and from nasopharyngeal specimens of children with pneumococcal carriage. We characterized the association between the two PspA families, capsular serotypes, and multilocus sequence types (STs) of the pneumococcal isolates. MEF isolates (n = 201) of 109 patients and nasopharyngeal isolates (n = 173) of 49 children were PspA family typed by whole-cell enzyme immunoassay (EIA). Genetic typing (PCR) of PspA family was done for 60 isolates to confirm EIA typing results. The prevalences of PspA families 1 and 2 were similar among pneumococci isolated from MEF (51% and 45%, respectively) and nasopharyngeal specimens (48% each). Isolates of certain capsule types as well as isolates of certain STs showed statistical associations with either family 1 or family 2 PspA. Pneumococci from seven children with multiple pneumococcal isolates appeared to express serologically different PspA families in different isolates of the same serotype; in three of the children the STs of the isolates were the same, suggesting that antigenic changes in the PspA expressed may have taken place. The majority of the isolates (97%) belonged to either PspA family 1 or family 2, suggesting that a combination including the two main PspA families would make a good vaccine candidate.
Automatic detection of exonic splicing enhancers (ESEs) using SVMs.	Exonic splicing enhancers (ESEs) activate nearby splice sites and promote the inclusion (vs. exclusion) of exons in which they reside, while being a binding site for SR proteins. To study the impact of ESEs on alternative splicing it would be useful to have a possibility to detect them in exons. Identifying SR protein-binding sites in human DNA sequences by machine learning techniques is a formidable task, since the exon sequences are also constrained by their functional role in coding for proteins.
A multilocus sequence analysis of the genus Xanthomonas.	A multilocus sequence analysis (MLSA) of strains representing all validly published Xanthomonas spp. (119 strains) was conducted using four genes; dnaK, fyuA, gyrB and rpoD, a total of 440 sequences. Xanthomonas spp. were divided into two groups similar to those indicated in earlier 16S rDNA comparative analyses, and they possibly represent distinct genera. The analysis clearly differentiated most species that have been established by DNA-DNA reassociation. A similarity matrix of the data indicated clear numerical differences that could form the basis for species differentiation in the future, as an alternative to DNA-DNA reassociation. Some species, X. cynarae, X. gardneri and X. hortorum, formed a single heterogeneous group that is in need of further investigation. X. gardneri appeared to be a synonym of X. cynarae. Recently proposed new species, X. alfalfae, X. citri, X. euvesicatoria, X. fuscans and X. perforans, were not clearly differentiated as species from X. axonopodis, and X. euvesicatoria and X. perforans are very probably synonyms. MLSA offers a powerful tool for further investigation of the classification of Xanthomonas. Based on the dataset produced, the method also offers a relatively simple way of identifying strains as members of known species, or of indicating their status as members of new species.
Mixture models for analysis of melting temperature data.	In addition to their use in detecting undesired real-time PCR products, melting temperatures are useful for detecting variations in the desired target sequences. Methodological improvements in recent years allow the generation of high-resolution melting-temperature (Tm) data. However, there is currently no convention on how to statistically analyze such high-resolution Tm data.
Computational detection of significant variation in binding affinity across two sets of sequences with application to the analysis of replication origins in yeast.	In analyzing the stability of DNA replication origins in Saccharomyces cerevisiae we faced the question whether one set of sequences is significantly enriched in the number and/or the quality of the matches of a particular position weight matrix relative to another set.
Large-scale identification of polymorphic microsatellites using an in silico approach.	Simple Sequence Repeat (SSR) or microsatellite markers are valuable for genetic research. Experimental methods to develop SSR markers are laborious, time consuming and expensive. In silico approaches have become a practicable and relatively inexpensive alternative during the last decade, although testing putative SSR markers still is time consuming and expensive. In many species only a relatively small percentage of SSR markers turn out to be polymorphic. This is particularly true for markers derived from expressed sequence tags (ESTs). In EST databases a large redundancy of sequences is present, which may contain information on length-polymorphisms in the SSR they contain, and whether they have been derived from heterozygotes or from different genotypes. Up to now, although a number of programs have been developed to identify SSRs in EST sequences, no software can detect putatively polymorphic SSRs.
A combination of LongSAGE with Solexa sequencing is well suited to explore the depth and the complexity of transcriptome.	"Open" transcriptome analysis methods allow to study gene expression without a priori knowledge of the transcript sequences. As of now, SAGE (Serial Analysis of Gene Expression), LongSAGE and MPSS (Massively Parallel Signature Sequencing) are the mostly used methods for "open" transcriptome analysis. Both LongSAGE and MPSS rely on the isolation of 21 pb tag sequences from each transcript. In contrast to LongSAGE, the high throughput sequencing method used in MPSS enables the rapid sequencing of very large libraries containing several millions of tags, allowing deep transcriptome analysis. However, a bias in the complexity of the transcriptome representation obtained by MPSS was recently uncovered.
caBIG VISDA: modeling, visualization, and discovery for cluster analysis of genomic data.	The main limitations of most existing clustering methods used in genomic data analysis include heuristic or random algorithm initialization, the potential of finding poor local optima, the lack of cluster number detection, an inability to incorporate prior/expert knowledge, black-box and non-adaptive designs, in addition to the curse of dimensionality and the discernment of uninformative, uninteresting cluster structure associated with confounding variables.
DNA sequencing-based typing of HPA-1 to HPA-17w systems.	Although several DNA-based human platelet antigens (HPA) typing techniques, such as PCR-SSP and PCR-SSO, have been established, the typing errors and the lack of interlaboratory reproducibility are still the issues of concerns. In the present study, polymerase chain reaction primers were designed for identification of all the phenotypically different HPA-1 to HPA-17w types by sequencing-based typing (SBT) method using genomic DNA samples. No discrepancies were observed between PCR-SSP typing and SBT typing in typing a panel of HPA-typed platelet donors that included all common HPA types and the rare HPA-1b, 2b, 3b, and 6bw homozygous donors.
Genome sequencing and analysis of the filamentous fungus Penicillium chrysogenum.	Industrial penicillin production with the filamentous fungus Penicillium chrysogenum is based on an unprecedented effort in microbial strain improvement. To gain more insight into penicillin synthesis, we sequenced the 32.19 Mb genome of P. chrysogenum Wisconsin54-1255 and identified numerous genes responsible for key steps in penicillin production. DNA microarrays were used to compare the transcriptomes of the sequenced strain and a penicillinG high-producing strain, grown in the presence and absence of the side-chain precursor phenylacetic acid. Transcription of genes involved in biosynthesis of valine, cysteine and alpha-aminoadipic acid-precursors for penicillin biosynthesis-as well as of genes encoding microbody proteins, was increased in the high-producing strain. Some gene products were shown to be directly controlling beta-lactam output. Many key cellular transport processes involving penicillins and intermediates remain to be characterized at the molecular level. Genes predicted to encode transporters were strongly overrepresented among the genes transcriptionally upregulated under conditions that stimulate penicillinG production, illustrating potential for future genomics-driven metabolic engineering.
Increased detection of influenza A H16 in the United States.	As a result of an US interagency avian influenza surveillance effort in wild birds, four isolates of influenza A viruses were initially identified as H7 by hemagglutination inhibition (HI) but subsequently identified as H16 through genetic sequence analysis. We report the development of internal primers for amplification and cycle-sequencing of the full-length H16 gene, increased detection of H16 within the US, and possible steric inhibition or cross-reaction between H7 and H16 antigens during the conventional HI assay. The latter could have critical implications for poultry operations if H16 viruses are detected and mistakenly reported as H7 viruses.
Evaluation of human gene variant detection in amplicon pools by the GS-FLX parallel Pyrosequencer.	A new priority in genome research is large-scale resequencing of genes to understand the molecular basis of hereditary disease and cancer. We assessed the ability of massively parallel pyrosequencing to identify sequence variants in pools. From a large collection of human PCR samples we selected 343 PCR products belonging to 16 disease genes and including a large spectrum of sequence variations previously identified by Sanger sequencing. The sequence variants included SNPs and small deletions and insertions (up to 44 bp), in homozygous or heterozygous state.
Gene mutations of 23S rRNA associated with clarithromycin resistance in Helicobacter pylori strains isolated from Korean patients.	Although resistance of Helicobacter pylori to clarithromycin is a major cause of failure of eradication therapies, little information is available regarding gene mutations of clarithromycin-resistant primary and secondary H. pylori isolates in Korea. In the present study, we examined gene mutations of H. pylori 23S rRNA responsible for resistance to clarithromycin. DNA sequences of the 23S rRNA gene in 21 primary clarithromycin-resistant and 64 secondary clarithromycin-resistant strains were determined by PCR amplification and nucleotide sequence analyses. Two mutations of the 23S rRNA gene, A2143G and T2182C, were observed in primary clarithromycin-resistant isolates. In secondary isolates, dual mutation of A2143G+T2182C was frequently observed. In addition, A2143G+T2182C+ T2190C, A2143G+T2182C+C2195T, and A2143G+T2182C +A2223G were observed in secondary isolates. Furthermore, macrolide binding was tested on purified ribosomes isolated from T2182C or A2143C mutant strains with [14C]erythromycin. Erythromycin binding increased in a dose-dependent manner for the susceptible strain but not for the mutant strains. These results indicate that secondary isolates show a greater variety of 23S rRNA gene mutation types than primary isolates, and triple mutations of secondary isolates are associated with A2143G+T2182C in H. pylori isolated from Korean patients.
Archived Guthrie blood spots as a novel source for quantitative DNA methylation analysis.	Sodium bisulfite treatment followed by PCR and DNA sequencing is widely considered the gold standard for the analysis of DNA methylation patterns. However, this technique generally requires substantial quantities of genomic DNA as starting material and is often associated with degradation of DNA. Here, we assess the feasibility of performing bisulfite sequencing on DNA isolated from 3-mm diameter punches of dried blood Guthrie spots. We demonstrate that it is possible to perform bisulfite sequencing from both freshly prepared and archived dried blood spots, using a combination of high purity DNA extraction and efficient bisulfite conversion. With the number of new technologies available for DNA methylation studies, we have extended this analysis and have successfully used a high-throughput mass spectrometry method for DNA methylation analysis on these samples. This provides a new source of material for epigenetic analysis of birth samples and provides an invaluable reference point to track temporal change in epigenetic profiles possibly linked with health and disease.
DNA cleavage assay for the identification of topoisomerase I inhibitors.	The inhibition of DNA topoisomerase I (Top1) has proven to be a successful approach in the design of anticancer agents. However, despite the clinical successes of the camptothecin derivatives, a significant need for less toxic and more chemically stable Top1 inhibitors still persists. Here, we describe one of the most frequently used protocols to identify novel Top1 inhibitors. These methods use uniquely 3'-radiolabeled DNA substrates and denaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis to provide evidence for the Top1-mediated DNA cleaving activity of potential Top1 inhibitors. These assays allow comparison of the effectiveness of different drugs in stabilizing the Top1-DNA intermediate or cleavage (cleavable) complex. A variation on these assays is also presented, which provides a suitable system for determining whether the inhibitor blocks the forward cleavage or religation reactions by measuring the reversibility of the drug-induced Top1-DNA cleavage complexes. This entire protocol can be completed in approximately 2 d.
Constraint-based knowledge discovery from SAGE data.	Current analyses of co-expressed genes are often based on global approaches such as clustering or bi-clustering. An alternative way is to employ local methods and search for patterns--sets of genes displaying specific expression properties in a set of situations. The main bottleneck of this type of analysis is twofold--computational costs and an overwhelming number of candidate patterns which can hardly be further exploited. A timely application of background knowledge available in literature databases, biological ontologies and other sources can help to focus on the most plausible patterns only. The paper proposes, implements and tests a flexible constraint-based framework that enables the effective mining and representation of meaningful over-expression patterns representing intrinsic associations among genes and biological situations. The framework can be simultaneously applied to a wide spectrum of genomic data and we demonstrate that it allows to generate new biological hypotheses with clinical implications.
GASCO: genetic algorithm simulation for codon optimization.	Codon optimization is a generic technique to achieve optimum expression of a foreign gene in the host's cell system. Selection of optimum codons depends on codon usage of the host genome and the presence of several desirable and undesirable sequence motifs. Searching these motifs in all possible combinations of the codons increases the search space exponentially with respect to sequence length. GASCO is an algorithm developed for the optimum codon selection using genetic algorithms. The algorithm reduces the search space and provides an approximate solution to the problem. The algorithm has applications in DNA vaccine design for successfully eliciting potent immune responses and synthetic gene design for metabolic pathway engineering. The software for the proposed algorithm is available on http://miracle.igib.res.in/gasco/.
Faecal microbiota profile of Crohn's disease determined by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis.	Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analyses are powerful tools to assess the diversity of complex microbiota. T-RFLPs permit rapid comparisons of microbiota from many samples.
Clinical significance of ABCB1 genotyping in oncology.	P-glycoprotein (Pgp) is a drug efflux pump that transports natural products, including taxanes and other chemotherapeutic agents, from cells. Several frequent polymorphisms in ATP binding cassette gene B1 (ABCB1) may influence Pgp levels and drug efflux. The purpose of this review was to assess the clinical significance of ABCB1 polymorphisms in oncology.
An interlaboratory comparison of 16S rRNA gene-based terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism and sequencing methods for assessing microbial diversity of seafloor basalts.	We present an interlaboratory comparison between full-length 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis and terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (TRFLP) for microbial communities hosted on seafloor basaltic lavas, with the goal of evaluating how similarly these two different DNA-based methods used in two independent labs would estimate the microbial diversity of the same basalt samples. Two samples were selected for these analyses based on differences detected in the overall levels of microbial diversity between them. Richness estimators indicate that TRFLP analysis significantly underestimates the richness of the relatively high-diversity seafloor basalt microbial community: at least 50% of species from the high-diversity site are missed by TRFLP. However, both methods reveal similar dominant species from the samples, and they predict similar levels of relative diversity between the two samples. Importantly, these results suggest that DNA-extraction or PCR-related bias between the two laboratories is minimal. We conclude that TRFLP may be useful for relative comparisons of diversity between basalt samples, for identifying dominant species, and for estimating the richness and evenness of low-diversity, skewed populations of seafloor basalt microbial communities, but that TRFLP may miss a majority of species in relatively highly diverse samples.
Comprehensive resequence analysis of a 97 kb region of chromosome 10q11.2 containing the MSMB gene associated with prostate cancer.	Genome-wide association studies of prostate cancer have identified single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers in a region of chromosome 10q11.2, harboring the microseminoprotein- (MSMB) gene. Both the gene product of MSMB, the prostate secretory protein 94 (PSP94) and its binding protein (PSPBP), have been previously investigated as serum biomarkers for prostate cancer progression. Recent functional work has shown that different alleles of the significantly associated SNP in the promoter of MSMB found to be associated with prostate cancer risk, rs10993994, can influence its expression in tumors and in vitro studies. Since it is plausible that additional variants in this region contribute to the risk of prostate cancer, we have used next-generation sequencing technology to resequence a ~97-kb region that includes the area surrounding MSMB (chr10: 51,168,025-51,265,101) in 36 prostate cancer cases, 26 controls of European origin, and 8 unrelated CEPH individuals in order to identify additional variants to investigate in functional studies. We identified 241 novel polymorphisms within this region, including 142 in the 51-kb block of linkage disequilibrium (LD) that contains rs10993994 and the proximal promoter of MSMB. No sites were observed to be polymorphic within the exons of MSMB.
Infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis: evaluation of three positional candidate genes, TRPC1, TRPC5 and TRPC6, by association analysis and re-sequencing.	Infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis (IHPS) is the most common inherited form of gastrointestinal obstruction in infancy with a striking male preponderance. Infants present with vomiting due to gastric outlet obstruction caused by hypertrophy of the smooth muscle of the pylorus. Two loci specific to extended pedigrees displaying autosomal dominant inheritance have been identified. A genome scan identified loci on chromosomes 11q14-q22 and Xq23-q24 which are predicted to be responsible for a subset of smaller families with IHPS demonstrating non-Mendelian inheritance. The two linked chromosomal regions both harbour functional candidate genes which are members of the canonical transient receptor potential (TRPC) family of ion channels. Both TRPC5 (Xq23-q24) and TRPC6 (11q14-q22) have a potential role in smooth muscle control and hypertrophy. Here, we report suggestive evidence for a third locus on chromosome 3q12-q25 (Zmax = 2.7, p < 0.004), a region which harbours a third TRPC gene, TRPC1. Fine mapping of all three genes using a tagSNP approach and re-sequencing identified a SNP in the promoter region of TRPC6 and a missense variant in exon 4 of TRPC6 which may be putative causal variants.
Reaching the depth of the Chinese hamster ovary cell transcriptome.	The high-throughput DNA sequencing Illumina Solexa GAII platform was employed to characterize the transcriptome of an antibody-producing Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell line. More than 55 million sequencing reads were generated and mapped to an existing set of CHO unigenes derived from expressed sequence tags (ESTs), as well as several public sequence databases. A very significant fraction of sequencing reads has not been previously seen. The frequency with which fragments of a unigene were sequenced was taken as an estimate of the abundance level of the corresponding transcripts. A wide dynamic range of transcript abundance levels was observed, spanning six orders of magnitude. However, the distribution of coverage across transcript lengths was found to vary, from relatively uniform to highly variable. This observation suggests that more challenges are yet to be resolved before direct sequencing can be used as a true quantitative measure of transcript level and for differential gene expression analysis. With the depth that high-throughput sequencing methods can reach, one can expect that the entire transcriptome of this industrially important organism will be decoded in the near future.
Sequences of complete human cytomegalovirus genomes from infected cell cultures and clinical specimens.	We have assessed two approaches to sequencing complete human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) genomes (236 kbp) in DNA extracted from infected cell cultures (strains 3157, HAN13, HAN20 and HAN38) or clinical specimens (strains JP and 3301). The first approach involved amplifying genomes from the DNA samples as overlapping PCR products, sequencing these by the Sanger method, acquiring reads from a capillary instrument and assembling these using the Staden programs. The second approach involved generating sequence data from the DNA samples by using an Illumina Genome Analyzer (IGA), processing the filtered reads by reference-independent (de novo) assembly, utilizing the resulting sequence to direct reference-dependent assembly of the same data and finishing by limited PCR sequencing. Both approaches were successful. In particular, the investigation demonstrated the utility of IGA data for efficiently sequencing genomes from clinical samples containing as little as 3 % HCMV DNA. Analysis of the genome sequences obtained showed that each of the strains grown in cell culture was a mutant. Certain of the mutations were shared among strains from independent clinical sources, thus suggesting that they may have arisen in a common ancestor during natural infection. Moreover, one of the strains (JP) sequenced directly from a clinical specimen was mutated in two genes, one of which encodes a proposed immune-evasion function, viral interleukin-10. These observations imply that HCMV mutants exist in human infections.
Use of high throughput sequencing to observe genome dynamics at a single cell level.	With the development of high throughput sequencing technology, it becomes possible to directly analyze mutation distribution in a genome-wide fashion, dissociating mutation rate measurements from the traditional underlying assumptions. Here, we sequenced several genomes of Escherichia coli from colonies obtained after chemical mutagenesis and observed a strikingly nonrandom distribution of the induced mutations. These include long stretches of exclusively G to A or C to T transitions along the genome and orders of magnitude intra- and intergenomic differences in mutation density. Whereas most of these observations can be explained by the known features of enzymatic processes, the others could reflect stochasticity in the molecular processes at the single-cell level. Our results demonstrate how analysis of the molecular records left in the genomes of the descendants of an individual mutagenized cell allows for genome-scale observations of fixation and segregation of mutations, as well as recombination events, in the single genome of their progenitor.
Probabilistic expert systems for forensic inference from DNA markers in horses: applications to confirm genealogies with lack of genetic data.	Microsatellites have been used for parentage testing and individual identification in forensic science because they are highly polymorphic and show abundant sequences dispersed throughout most eukaryotic nuclear genomes. At present, genetic testing based on DNA technology is used for most domesticated animals, including horses, to confirm identity, to determine parentage, and to validate registration certificates. But if genetic data of one of the putative parents are missing, verifying a genealogy could be questionable. The aim of this paper is to illustrate a new approach to analyze complex cases of disputed relationship with microsatellites markers. These cases were solved by analyzing the genotypes of the offspring and other horses' genotypes in the pedigrees of the putative dam/sire with probabilistic expert systems (PESs). PES was especially efficient in supplying reliable, error-free Bayesian probabilities in complex cases with missing pedigree data. One of these systems was developed for forensic purposes (FINEX program) and is particularly valuable in human analyses. We applied this program to parentage analysis in horses, and we will illustrate how different cases have been successfully worked out.
Identification of bacterial populations in drinking water using 16S rRNA-based sequence analyses.	Intracellular RNA is rapidly degraded in stressed cells and is more unstable outside of the cell than DNA. As a result, RNA-based methods have been suggested to study the active microbial fraction in environmental matrices. The aim of this study was to identify bacterial populations in drinking water by analyzing 16S rRNA-based clone libraries. Hollow-fiber ultrafiltration was used to concentrate bacterial communities from 40l of tap water collected at 12 different times during three different summer months from a single point-of-use. Total RNA was extracted from the microbial concentrates and used to develop 16S rRNA-based clone libraries. Phylogenetic analyses of 1231 partial 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that difficult-to-classify bacterial sequences were the most predominant clones, representing 57.6% of the sequences analyzed. Within these unclassified clades, most sequences were closely related to sequences retrieved from previous DNA- and RNA-based drinking water studies. Other bacterial groups represented in this study included Proteobacteria, cyanobacteria, Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Planctomycetes. Overall, the results suggest that these bacterial groups are amongst potentially active bacteria in drinking water. Diversity analyses of clones generated show that while overall diversity is similar amongst the different months, membership changes with respect to time. The results from this study further improve our understanding of the molecular diversity and bacterial population dynamics of drinking water microbial communities. Moreover, these results provide the sequence foundation for the development of molecular assays that target active drinking water bacteria.
Genealogical relationship among members of selection and production populations of yellow cedar (Callitropsis nootkatensis [D. Don] Oerst.) in the absence of parental information.	We used DNA fingerprinting and pedigree reconstruction to determine the genetic relationship among members of 3 yellow-cedar (Callitropsis nootkatensis [D. Don] Oerst.) selection populations in the absence of their parental genotypes. Selection population members consisted of the tallest individuals within seedling crops originated from natural stand seed collected from multiple seed donors covering wide areas within 3 distinct locations (phenotypic mass selection). Pairwise relative kinship estimates indicated the presence of extensive coancestry among the selected seedlings, and pedigree reconstruction grouped each selection members into multiple full-sib families of different sizes (1-10) nested within several half-sib families (19-21). The "STRUCTURE" program (Pritchard JK, Stephens M, Donnelly P. 2000. "Inference of population structure using multilocus genotype data." Genetics. 155:945-959.) provided a pictorial classification of the 3 selection populations and grouped their individuals into multiple cohorts (9-10). The STRUCTURE program's results corresponded with that of the pedigree reconstruction, indicating that members of the selection populations originated from a subset of the seed donors forming the natural stand seed collections. The species' silvics, reproductive biology, methods of natural stand seed collection and seedling production, and the high selection intensity applied to form the selection populations contributed to limiting the selection to a subset of the original donor trees. The associated buildup of coancestry in selection and production populations is expected to result in inaccurate estimation of genetic parameters and an unintentional reduction in genetic diversity in reforestation stocks.
Analysis of STR markers reveals high genetic structure in Portuguese native cattle.	Genetic structure and diversity of 13 Portuguese native and 3 imported cattle breeds were assessed with 39 microsatellites. Allelic richness per locus was high, with an overall average of 8.3 +/- 2.5. The mean observed and expected heterozygosities were 0.673 +/- 0.043 and 0.691 +/- 0.034, respectively. The mean number of alleles per breed ranged between 5.36 +/- 1.27 and 7.87 +/- 2.66. Brava de Lide and Mirandesa breeds had the lowest genetic diversity, whereas Minhota, Arouquesa, and Mertolenga had the highest. Significant (P < 0.05) heterozygote deficit was detected in all breeds except Garvonesa, Marinhoa, Minhota, and Limousin. Hardy-Weinberg deviations are most probably due to inbreeding, particularly in Alentejana, Brava de Lide, Mertolenga, and Ramo Grande (F(is) > 0, P < 0.0001). Based on the principal component and the Neighbor-Net analyses, Mirandesa was the most genetically distinct breed. Even though admixture was detected across all breeds (6.7%, q < 0.800), the molecular structure was consistent with original breed designations, with the exception of Cachena that had a clear influence of Barros (K = 15). Mertolenga showed substructure with independent clustering of red speckled animals. The percentage animals correctly assigned was >or=90 in all breeds except Cachena, Garvonesa, and Preta (q >or= 0.800). The results obtained here confirmed that high levels of genetic diversity exist within Portuguese native cattle and that the breeds are highly structured. Conservation measures should be implemented for all native breeds to minimize inbreeding.
Phylogeny and DNA barcoding of inquiline oak gallwasps (Hymenoptera: Cynipidae) of the Western Palaearctic.	We examine phylogenetic relationships within the Synergus complex of herbivorous inquiline gallwasps (Hymenoptera; Cynipidae; Synergini) associated with cynipid host galls on oak, a biologically diverse group whose genus-level morphological taxonomy has long been considered stable but whose species level taxonomy is problematic. We incorporate data for over 70% of recognised Western Palaearctic species in five morphology-based genera (Ceroptres, Saphonecrus, Synergus, Synophrus, Ufo), comprising sequence for two mitochondrial loci (coxI, cytb) and one nuclear locus (28S D2). In particular, we assess the evidence for monophyly of two long-established, morphology-defined sections within the genus Synergus that differ in a range of biological traits. To aid analyses of ecological interactions within oak cynipid communities, we also consider the utility of cytochrome oxidase I (coxI) DNA barcodes in the oak inquilines. In this assessment, we do not assume that species are delineated at a single threshold value of sequence divergence for a single gene, but examine concordance in the composition of molecular operational Taxonomic units (MOTUs) across a range of sequence divergences in each gene and across genes. We also assess the impact of sampling effort on MOTU stability. Phylogenetic reconstructions for all three loci support monophyly for Synergus and Synophrus, but reject monophyly for Saphonecrus and for the two sections within Synergus. The suites of traits associated with the two sections of the genus Synergus are thus homoplasious. All three loci also reject monophyly for three Synergus species (S. hayneanus, S. pallipes, S. umbraculus). Sequences for each locus identify robust MOTUs that are largely concordant across loci for a range of cut-off values. Though many MOTU's correspond to recognised Linnean species, there is significant, multigene disagreement between groupings supported by morphology and sequence data, with both allocation of different morphospecies to the same MOTU and allocation of the same morphospecies to multiple MOTUs, regardless of cut-off value. Our results imply that while DNA barcoding has considerable utility within this group, morphology-based identification needs major revision at both genus and species levels. Further, lifehistory traits currently attributed to single morphospecies probably confound attributes of multiple lineages. Revealing patterns of character state evolution in Synergus requires collection of new host association and life history data explicitly linked to DNA barcode data for the specimens concerned.
Detection of molecular markers of drug resistance in 2009 pandemic influenza A (H1N1) viruses by pyrosequencing.	The M2 blockers amantadine and rimantadine and the neuraminidase (NA) inhibitors (NAIs) oseltamivir and zanamivir are approved by the FDA for use for the control of influenza A virus infections. The 2009 pandemic influenza A (H1N1) viruses (H1N1pdm) are reassortants that acquired M and NA gene segments from a Eurasian adamantane-resistant swine influenza virus. NAI resistance in the H1N1pdm viruses has been rare, and its occurrence is mainly limited to oseltamivir-exposed patients. The pyrosequencing assay has been proven to be a useful tool in surveillance for drug resistance in seasonal influenza A viruses. We provide a protocol which allows the detection of adamantane resistance markers as well as the I43T change, which is unique to the H1N1pdm M2 protein. The protocol also allows the detection of changes at residues V116, I117, E119, Q136, K150, D151, D199, I223, H275, and N295 in the NA, known to alter NAI drug susceptibility. We report on the detection of the first cases of the oseltamivir resistance-conferring mutation H275Y and the I223V change in viruses from the United States using the approach described in this study. Moreover, the assay permits the quick identification of the major NA group (V106/N248, I106/D248, or I106/N248) to which a pandemic virus belongs. Pyrosequencing is well suited for the detection of drug resistance markers and signature mutations in the M and NA gene segments of the pandemic H1N1 influenza viruses.
Effort required to finish shotgun-generated genome sequences differs significantly among vertebrates.	The approaches for shotgun-based sequencing of vertebrate genomes are now well-established, and have resulted in the generation of numerous draft whole-genome sequence assemblies. In contrast, the process of refining those assemblies to improve contiguity and increase accuracy (known as 'sequence finishing') remains tedious, labor-intensive, and expensive. As a result, the vast majority of vertebrate genome sequences generated to date remain at a draft stage.
Assembly complexity of prokaryotic genomes using short reads.	De Bruijn graphs are a theoretical framework underlying several modern genome assembly programs, especially those that deal with very short reads. We describe an application of de Bruijn graphs to analyze the global repeat structure of prokaryotic genomes.
BLAST-EXPLORER helps you building datasets for phylogenetic analysis.	The right sampling of homologous sequences for phylogenetic or molecular evolution analyses is a crucial step, the quality of which can have a significant impact on the final interpretation of the study. There is no single way for constructing datasets suitable for phylogenetic analysis, because this task intimately depends on the scientific question we want to address, Moreover, database mining softwares such as BLAST which are routinely used for searching homologous sequences are not specifically optimized for this task.
BamView: viewing mapped read alignment data in the context of the reference sequence.	BamView is an interactive Java application for visualizing the large amounts of data stored for sequence reads which are aligned against a reference genome sequence. It supports the BAM (Binary Alignment/Map) format. It can be used in a number of contexts including SNP calling and structural annotation. BamView has also been integrated into Artemis so that the reads can be viewed in the context of the nucleotide sequence and genomic features.
Transcriptome analysis of the sex pheromone gland of the noctuid moth Heliothis virescens.	The chemical components of sex pheromones have been determined for more than a thousand moth species, but so far only a handful of genes encoding enzymes responsible for the biosynthesis of these compounds have been identified. For understanding the evolution of moth sexual communication, it is essential to know which genes are involved in the production of specific pheromone components and what controls the variation in their relative frequencies in the pheromone blend. We used a transcriptomic approach to characterize the pheromone gland of the Noctuid moth Heliothis virescens, an important agricultural pest, in order to obtain substantial general sequence information and to identify a range of candidate genes involved in the pheromone biosynthetic pathway.
Assessing functional annotation transfers with inter-species conserved coexpression: application to Plasmodium falciparum.	Plasmodium falciparum is the main causative agent of malaria. Of the 5 484 predicted genes of P. falciparum, about 57% do not have sufficient sequence similarity to characterized genes in other species to warrant functional assignments. Non-homology methods are thus needed to obtain functional clues for these uncharacterized genes. Gene expression data have been widely used in the recent years to help functional annotation in an intra-species way via the so-called Guilt By Association (GBA) principle.
Improving de novo sequence assembly using machine learning and comparative genomics for overlap correction.	With the rapid expansion of DNA sequencing databases, it is now feasible to identify relevant information from prior sequencing projects and completed genomes and apply it to de novo sequencing of new organisms. As an example, this paper demonstrates how such extra information can be used to improve de novo assemblies by augmenting the overlapping step. Finding all pairs of overlapping reads is a key task in many genome assemblers, and to this end, highly efficient algorithms have been developed to find alignments in large collections of sequences. It is well known that due to repeated sequences, many aligned pairs of reads nevertheless do not overlap. But no overlapping algorithm to date takes a rigorous approach to separating aligned but non-overlapping read pairs from true overlaps.
Application of multiplex single nucleotide primer extension (mSNuPE) to the identification of bacteria: the Burkholderia cepacia complex case.	Burkholderia cepacia complex (BCC) is characterized by a complex taxonomy constituted by seventeen closely related species of both biotechnological and clinical importance. Several molecular methods have been developed to accurately identify BCC species but simpler and effective strategies for BCC classification are still needed. A single nucleotide primer extension (SNuPE) assay using gyrB as a target gene was developed to identify bacteria belonging to the B. cepacia (BCC) complex. This technique allows the successful detection and distinction of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and is effectively applied in routine medical diagnosis since it permits to analyze routinely many samples in a few times. Seven SNuPE primers were designed analyzing the conserved regions of the BCC gyrB sequences currently available in databases. The specificity of the assay was evaluated using reference strains of some BCC species. Data obtained enabled to discriminate bacteria belonging to the species B. multivorans, B. cenocepacia (including bacteria belonging to recA lineages III-A, III-C, and III-D), B. vietnamiensis, B. dolosa, B. ambifaria, B. anthina and B. pyrrocinia. Conversely, identification failed for B. cepacia, B. cenocepacia III-B and B. stabilis. This study demonstrates the efficacy of SNuPE technique for the identification of bacteria characterized by a complex taxonomical organization as BCC bacteria.
Integrating multiple genome annotation databases improves the interpretation of microarray gene expression data.	The Affymetrix GeneChip is a widely used gene expression profiling platform. Since the chips were originally designed, the genome databases and gene definitions have been considerably updated. Thus, more accurate interpretation of microarray data requires parallel updating of the specificity of GeneChip probes. We propose a new probe remapping protocol, using the zebrafish GeneChips as an example, by removing nonspecific probes, and grouping the probes into transcript level probe sets using an integrated zebrafish genome annotation. This genome annotation is based on combining transcript information from multiple databases. This new remapping protocol, especially the new genome annotation, is shown here to be an important factor in improving the interpretation of gene expression microarray data.
Simple and accurate determination of CYP2D6 gene copy number by a loop-mediated isothermal amplification method and an electrochemical DNA chip.	A combination technology of a loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) method and an electrochemical DNA chip has been developed. In this study, the CYP2D6 gene copies were detected by this technology for determination of the functional CYP2D6*5 and CYP2D6*2x2 alleles.
Precision of pyrosequencing assay to measure LINE-1 methylation in colon cancer, normal colonic mucosa, and peripheral blood cells.	Genome-wide DNA hypomethylation plays an important role in epigenomic and genomic instability and colorectal carcinogenesis. DNA methylation in the long interspersed nucleotide element-1, L1 (LINE-1) repetitive element is a good indicator of global DNA methylation level. In addition, LINE-1 hypomethylation in blood cells has been associated with colorectal adenoma risk, and LINE-1 hypomethylation in colorectal cancer is related with prognosis and linearly predicts shorter patient survival. However, no study has comprehensively evaluated the precision of sodium bisulfite conversion and PCR-pyrosequencing to measure LINE-1 methylation. Using 10 paraffin-embedded colon cancers, 5 matched normal colon mucosa, and 5 unrelated peripheral blood buffy coat leukocyte specimens, we enriched tumor DNA by macrodissection and laser capture microdissection. LINE-1 methylation was calculated as an average of 100 * C/(C + T) at 4 CpG sites after bisulfite-PCR-pyrosequencing. The LINE-1 methylation value in colon cancers varied, ranging approximately from 30 to 80. To measure assay precision, we performed bisulfite conversion on seven different DNA specimen aliquots and repeated PCR-pyrosequencing seven times. Run-to-run (between-run) SD ranged from 1.3 to 4.4 (median, 3.0) in macrodissected colon cancers; 1.1 to 10.5 (median, 3.8) in laser capture microdissection specimens; 1.3 to 2.5 (median, 1.9) in normal colon; and 1.5 to 3.4 (median, 1.9) in leukocyte DNA. In conclusion, bisulfite conversion and PCR-pyrosequencing assay can measure LINE-1 methylation in macrodissected colon cancer, normal colon, and blood DNA, and may be useful in clinical and research settings.
Rapid molecular analysis of the STAT3 gene in Job syndrome of hyper-IgE and recurrent infectious diseases.	With the recent discovery of mutations in the STAT3 gene in the majority of patients with classic Hyper-IgE syndrome, it is now possible to make a molecular diagnosis in most of these cases. We have developed a PCR-based high-resolution DNA-melting assay to scan selected exons of the STAT3 gene for mutations responsible for Hyper-IgE syndrome, which is then followed by targeted sequencing. We scanned for mutations in 10 unrelated pedigrees, which include 16 patients with classic Hyper-IgE syndrome. These pedigrees include both sporadic and familial cases and their relatives, and we have found STAT3 mutations in all affected individuals. High-resolution melting analysis allows a single day turn-around time for mutation scanning and targeted sequencing of the STAT3 gene, which will greatly facilitate the rapid diagnosis of the Hyper-IgE syndrome, allowing prompt and appropriate therapy, prophylaxis, improved clinical outcome, and accurate genetic counseling.
Mutation detection of epidermal growth factor receptor and KRAS genes using the smart amplification process version 2 from formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded lung cancer tissue.	Recent evidence indicates that the presence of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) or KRAS mutations in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) can predict the response of the tumor to gefinitib. However, it is difficult to detect these mutations using formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissues because the fixation process and aging can damage the DNA. In this study, we describe our work in adapting the Smart Amplification Process version 2 (SmartAmp2) to detect EGFR or KRAS mutations in DNA extracted from FFPE tissues. We were able to detect these mutations in 37 (97%) of 38 FFPE lung cancer tissue samples within 60 minutes with the SmartAmp2 assay and to confirm the correlation between EGFR mutations in FFPE tissues and gefitinib responsiveness. All mutations had previously been confirmed in the 38 samples using DNA extracted from frozen tissues. Electrophoresis results indicated that PCR analysis was not reliable for DNA extracted from FFPE tissue when primers with a long amplicon (>300 bp) were used. This study confirms that the SmartAmp2 assay is suitable for use with DNA extracted from FFPE as well as frozen tissues.
Compilation of a panel of informative single nucleotide polymorphisms for bovine identification in the Northern Irish cattle population.	Animal identification is pivotal in governmental agricultural policy, enabling the management of subsidy payments, movement of livestock, test scheduling and control of disease. Advances in bovine genomics have made it possible to utilise inherent genetic variability to uniquely identify individual animals by DNA profiling, much as has been achieved with humans over the past 20 years. A DNA profiling test based on bi-allelic single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers would offer considerable advantages over current short tandem repeat (STR) based industry standard tests, in that it would be easier to analyse and interpret. In this study, a panel of 51 genome-wide SNPs were genotyped across panels of semen DNA from 6 common breeds for the purposes of ascertaining allelic frequency. For SNPs on the same chromosome, the extent of linkage disequilbrium was determined from genotype data by Expectation Maximization (EM) algorithm. Minimum probabilities of unique identification were determined for each breed panel. The usefulness of this SNP panel was ascertained by comparison to the current bovine STR Stockmarks II assay. A statistically representative random sampling of bovine animals from across Northern Ireland was assembled for the purposes of determining the population allele frequency for these STR loci and subsequently, the minimal probability of unique identification they conferred in sampled bovine animals from Northern Ireland.
Population resequencing reveals local adaptation of Arabidopsis lyrata to serpentine soils.	A powerful way to map functional genomic variation and reveal the genetic basis of local adaptation is to associate allele frequency across the genome with environmental conditions. Serpentine soils, characterized by high heavy-metal content and low calcium-to-magnesium ratios, are a classic context for studying adaptation of plants to local soil conditions. To investigate whether Arabidopsis lyrata is locally adapted to serpentine soil, and to map the polymorphisms responsible for such adaptation, we pooled DNA from individuals from serpentine and nonserpentine soils and sequenced each 'gene pool' with the Illumina Genome Analyzer. The polymorphisms that are most strongly associated with soil type are enriched at heavy-metal detoxification and calcium and magnesium transport loci, providing numerous candidate mutations for serpentine adaptation. Sequencing of three candidate loci in the European subspecies of A. lyrata indicates parallel differentiation of the same polymorphism at one locus, confirming ecological adaptation, and different polymorphisms at two other loci, which may indicate convergent evolution.
Towards realistic benchmarks for multiple alignments of non-coding sequences.	With the continued development of new computational tools for multiple sequence alignment, it is necessary today to develop benchmarks that aid the selection of the most effective tools. Simulation-based benchmarks have been proposed to meet this necessity, especially for non-coding sequences. However, it is not clear if such benchmarks truly represent real sequence data from any given group of species, in terms of the difficulty of alignment tasks.
Clinical laboratory analysis of immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region genes for chronic lymphocytic leukemia prognosis.	Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most common leukemia affecting adults in the western world. The clinical course of CLL is highly variable: cases that express mutated immunoglobulin heavy chain variable regions (IgV(H)) typically have a more indolent clinical course compared with those with unmutated IgV(H). The use of the V(H)3-21 variable region has also been found to confer a poor prognosis, independent of mutation status. Here we describe an assay for the identification of the expressed V(H) segment and its mutation status in CLL. This test uses whole blood-derived RNA and PCR primers annealing to the leader regions and the joining region segments. This approach allows more accurate determination of the IgV(H) mutation status relative to using framework region specific V(H) primers. An additional primer specific for the leader region of the V(H)3-21 segment is described and is shown to be necessary to identify this diagnostically important variable region. We successfully analyzed 99 of 103 samples, including five expressing the V(H)3-21 variable region. Approximately 5% of cases had complement determining region 3 sequences similar to previously reported cases, and overrepresentation of the V(H)1-69 segment was observed among unmutated cases. These results confirm the proper functioning and high success rate of this valuable prognostic for CLL designed for the use in a clinical laboratory setting.
Systematic overrepresentation of DNA termini and underrepresentation of subterminal regions among sequencing templates prepared from hydrodynamically sheared linear DNA molecules.	Analysis of fungal genome sequence assemblies reveals that telomeres are poorly represented even though telomeric reads tend to be superabundant. We surmised that the problem might lie in the DNA shearing conditions used to create clone libraries for genome sequencing.
Electrophoresis today and tomorrow: Helping biologists' dreams come true.	Intensive research and development of electrophoresis methodology and instrumentation during past decades has resulted in unique methods widely implemented in bioanalysis. While two-dimensional electrophoresis and denaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in sodium dodecylsulfate are still the most frequently used electrophoretic methods applied to analyses of proteins, new miniaturized capillary and microfluidic versions of electromigrational methods have been developed. High-throughput electrophoretic instruments with hundreds of capillaries for parallel separations and laser-induced fluorescence detection of labeled DNA strands have been of key importance for the scientific and commercial success of the Human Genome Project. Another powerful method, capillary isoelectric focusing with pressurized and pH-driven mobilization, provides efficient separations and on-line sensitive detection of proteins, bacteria and viruses. Electrophoretic microfluidic devices can integrate single-cell injection, cell lysis, separation of its components and fluorescence or mass spectrometry detection. These miniaturized devices also proved the capability of single-molecule detection.
Heuristic Bayesian segmentation for discovery of coexpressed genes within genomic regions.	Segmentation aims to separate homogeneous areas from the sequential data, and plays a central role in data mining. It has applications ranging from finance to molecular biology, where bioinformatics tasks such as genome data analysis are active application fields. In this paper, we present a novel application of segmentation in locating genomic regions with coexpressed genes. We aim at automated discovery of such regions without requirement for user-given parameters. In order to perform the segmentation within a reasonable time, we use heuristics. Most of the heuristic segmentation algorithms require some decision on the number of segments. This is usually accomplished by using asymptotic model selection methods like the Bayesian information criterion. Such methods are based on some simplification, which can limit their usage. In this paper, we propose a Bayesian model selection to choose the most proper result from heuristic segmentation. Our Bayesian model presents a simple prior for the segmentation solutions with various segment numbers and a modified Dirichlet prior for modeling multinomial data. We show with various artificial data sets in our benchmark system that our model selection criterion has the best overall performance. The application of our method in yeast cell-cycle gene expression data reveals potential active and passive regions of the genome.
Approximate maximum parsimony and ancestral maximum likelihood.	We explore the maximum parsimony (MP) and ancestral maximum likelihood (AML) criteria in phylogenetic tree reconstruction. Both problems are NP-hard, so we seek approximate solutions. We formulate the two problems as Steiner tree problems under appropriate distances. The gist of our approach is the succinct characterization of Steiner trees for a small number of leaves for the two distances. This enables the use of known Steiner tree approximation algorithms. The approach leads to a 16/9 approximation ratio for AML and asymptotically to a 1.55 approximation ratio for MP.
Taming the next-gen beast.	This month's Genome Watch discusses how alternative approaches to using second-generation sequencing technologies are powerful tools for the analysis of common pathogenic bacteria.
Transposon identification using profile HMMs.	Transposons are "jumping genes" that account for large quantities of repetitive content in genomes. They are known to affect transcriptional regulation in several different ways, and are implicated in many human diseases. Transposons are related to microRNAs and viruses, and many genes, pseudogenes, and gene promoters are derived from transposons or have origins in transposon-induced duplication. Modeling transposon-derived genomic content is difficult because they are poorly conserved. Profile hidden Markov models (profile HMMs), widely used for protein sequence family modeling, are rarely used for modeling DNA sequence families. The algorithm commonly used to estimate the parameters of profile HMMs, Baum-Welch, is prone to prematurely converge to local optima. The DNA domain is especially problematic for the Baum-Welch algorithm, since it has only four letters as opposed to the twenty residues of the amino acid alphabet.
Next-generation sequencing of a 40 Mb linkage interval reveals TSPAN12 mutations in patients with familial exudative vitreoretinopathy.	Familial exudative vitreoretinopathy (FEVR) is a genetically heterogeneous retinal disorder characterized by abnormal vascularisation of the peripheral retina, often accompanied by retinal detachment. To date, mutations in three genes (FZD4, LRP5, and NDP) have been shown to be causative for FEVR. In two large Dutch pedigrees segregating autosomal-dominant FEVR, genome-wide SNP analysis identified an FEVR locus of approximately 40 Mb on chromosome 7. Microsatellite marker analysis suggested similar at risk haplotypes in patients of both families. To identify the causative gene, we applied next-generation sequencing in the proband of one of the families, by analyzing all exons and intron-exon boundaries of 338 genes, in addition to microRNAs, noncoding RNAs, and other highly conserved genomic regions in the 40 Mb linkage interval. After detailed bioinformatic analysis of the sequence data, prioritization of all detected sequence variants led to three candidates to be considered as the causative genetic defect in this family. One of these variants was an alanine-to-proline substitution in the transmembrane 4 superfamily member 12 protein, encoded by TSPAN12. This protein has very recently been implicated in regulating the development of retinal vasculature, together with the proteins encoded by FZD4, LRP5, and NDP. Sequence analysis of TSPAN12 revealed two mutations segregating in five of 11 FEVR families, indicating that mutations in TSPAN12 are a relatively frequent cause of FEVR. Furthermore, we demonstrate the power of targeted next-generation sequencing technology to identify disease genes in linkage intervals.
Monitoring genomic sequences during SELEX using high-throughput sequencing: neutral SELEX.	SELEX is a well established in vitro selection tool to analyze the structure of ligand-binding nucleic acid sequences called aptamers. Genomic SELEX transforms SELEX into a tool to discover novel, genomically encoded RNA or DNA sequences binding a ligand of interest, called genomic aptamers. Concerns have been raised regarding requirements imposed on RNA sequences undergoing SELEX selection.
Analysis of the putative remains of a European patron saint--St. Birgitta.	Saint Birgitta (Saint Bridget of Sweden) lived between 1303 and 1373 and was designated one of Europe's six patron saints by the Pope in 1999. According to legend, the skulls of St. Birgitta and her daughter Katarina are maintained in a relic shrine in Vadstena abbey, mid Sweden. The origin of the two skulls was assessed first by analysis of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) to confirm a maternal relationship. The results of this analysis displayed several differences between the two individuals, thus supporting an interpretation of the two skulls not being individuals that are maternally related. Because the efficiency of PCR amplification and quantity of DNA suggested a different amount of degradation and possibly a very different age for each of the skulls, an orthogonal procedure, radiocarbon dating, was performed. The radiocarbon dating results suggest an age difference of at least 200 years and neither of the dating results coincides with the period St. Birgitta or her daughter Katarina lived. The relic, thought to originate from St. Birgitta, has an age corresponding to the 13(th) century (1215-1270 cal AD, 2sigma confidence), which is older than expected. Thus, the two different analyses are consistent in questioning the authenticity of either of the human skulls maintained in the Vadstena relic shrine being that of St. Birgitta. Of course there are limitations when interpreting the data of any ancient biological materials and these must be considered for a final decision on the authenticity of the remains.
Improving efficiencies of locus-specific DNA methylation assessment for bovine in vitro produced embryos.	Characterization of DNA methylation is one assessment of chromatin remodeling in early embryos. Unfortunately, evaluation at specific loci is hindered by their small cell numbers. Our objective was to determine if bisulfite sequencing could be optimized for preimplantation embryos, comparing conversion times, primer design, and DNA amplification methods. Methylation at three loci, SATI, OCT4, and IGF2, was investigated in bovine in vitro produced (IVP) embryos, somatic cells, and no template controls. Bisulfite treatment for 15-16 h gave higher quality DNA than treatment for 18 h. Three step primer design improved bisulfite primer specificity, yielding more PCR product than primers previously reported. Following optimization, methylation data were obtained from as few as 4 cell equivalents. Finally, DNA amplification efficiencies were evaluated using miniprep, TempliPhi, or 96-well glycerol stocks with automated TempliPhi. While TempliPhi was better than standard minipreps, the 96-well format proved most efficient. Preliminary methylation profiles of bovine IVP 2-cell, 8-cell, blastocyst stage embryos and somatic cells were 25, 10, 22, and 74% for SATI and 88, 88, 79, and 88% for OCT4, respectively, suggesting that SATI is demethylated during early embryonic reprogramming, while OCT4 remains hypermethylated. IGF2 methylation was 84, 28, and 84% for bovine IVP 8-cell, blastocyst stage embryos and somatic cells; blastocyst stage embryos exhibited more variability, ranging from 0 to 80%. This new assay will enhance assessment of chromatin remodeling in embryos, and be especially useful for evaluating those produced by assisted reproductive technologies.
Tumor transcriptome sequencing reveals allelic expression imbalances associated with copy number alterations.	Due to growing throughput and shrinking cost, massively parallel sequencing is rapidly becoming an attractive alternative to microarrays for the genome-wide study of gene expression and copy number alterations in primary tumors. The sequencing of transcripts (RNA-Seq) should offer several advantages over microarray-based methods, including the ability to detect somatic mutations and accurately measure allele-specific expression. To investigate these advantages we have applied a novel, strand-specific RNA-Seq method to tumors and matched normal tissue from three patients with oral squamous cell carcinomas. Additionally, to better understand the genomic determinants of the gene expression changes observed, we have sequenced the tumor and normal genomes of one of these patients. We demonstrate here that our RNA-Seq method accurately measures allelic imbalance and that measurement on the genome-wide scale yields novel insights into cancer etiology. As expected, the set of genes differentially expressed in the tumors is enriched for cell adhesion and differentiation functions, but, unexpectedly, the set of allelically imbalanced genes is also enriched for these same cancer-related functions. By comparing the transcriptomic perturbations observed in one patient to his underlying normal and tumor genomes, we find that allelic imbalance in the tumor is associated with copy number mutations and that copy number mutations are, in turn, strongly associated with changes in transcript abundance. These results support a model in which allele-specific deletions and duplications drive allele-specific changes in gene expression in the developing tumor.
Large-scale sequence analysis of hemagglutinin of influenza A virus identifies conserved regions suitable for targeting an anti-viral response.	Influenza A viral surface protein, hemagglutinin, is the major target of neutralizing antibody response and hence a main constituent of all vaccine formulations. But due to its marked evolutionary variability, vaccines have to be reformulated so as to include the hemagglutinin protein from the emerging new viral strain. With the constant fear of a pandemic, there is critical need for the development of anti-viral strategies that can provide wider protection against any Influenza A pathogen. An anti-viral approach that is directed against the conserved regions of the hemaggutinin protein has a potential to protect against any current and new Influenza A virus and provide a solution to this ever-present threat to public health.
HIV drug resistance surveillance using pooled pyrosequencing.	Surveillance for HIV transmitted drug resistance (TDR) is performed using HIV genotype results from individual specimens. Pyrosequencing, through its massive parallel sequencing ability, can analyze large numbers of specimens simultaneously. Instead of using pyrosequencing conventionally, to sequence a population of viruses within an individual, we interrogated a single combined pool of surveillance specimens to demonstrate that it is possible to determine TDR rates in HIV protease from a population of individuals.
Whole methylome analysis by ultra-deep sequencing using two-base encoding.	Methylation, the addition of methyl groups to cytosine (C), plays an important role in the regulation of gene expression in both normal and dysfunctional cells. During bisulfite conversion and subsequent PCR amplification, unmethylated Cs are converted into thymine (T), while methylated Cs will not be converted. Sequencing of this bisulfite-treated DNA permits the detection of methylation at specific sites. Through the introduction of next-generation sequencing technologies (NGS) simultaneous analysis of methylation motifs in multiple regions provides the opportunity for hypothesis-free study of the entire methylome. Here we present a whole methylome sequencing study that compares two different bisulfite conversion methods (in solution versus in gel), utilizing the high throughput of the SOLiD System. Advantages and disadvantages of the two different bisulfite conversion methods for constructing sequencing libraries are discussed. Furthermore, the application of the SOLiD bisulfite sequencing to larger and more complex genomes is shown with preliminary in silico created bisulfite converted reads.
The genetics of dilated cardiomyopathy.	More than 40 different individual genes have been implicated in the inheritance of dilated cardiomyopathy. For a subset of these genes, mutations can lead to a spectrum of cardiomyopathy that extends to hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and left ventricular noncompaction. In nearly all cases, there is an increased risk of arrhythmias. With some genetic mutations, extracardiac manifestations are likely to be present. The precise genetic cause can usually not be discerned from the cardiac and/or extracardiac manifestations and requires molecular genetic diagnosis for prognostic determination and cardiac care.
Screening and evaluating the mimic peptides as a useful serum biomarker of ankylosing spondylitis using a phage display technique.	To screen specific serum biomarker for ankylosing spondylitis (AS) using a phage random peptide library. A phage random peptide library of random peptide 12-mers was immunoscreened with purified immunoglobulin (Ig) G from sera of AS patients. Positive clones obtained after three rounds of biopanning were detected with ELISA and sequenced. Reaction of the screened positive clones with sera from AS patients, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) patients, rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients, osteoarthritis (OA) patients and healthy controls was detected using phage ELISA. Correlation among erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), C-reactive protein (CRP), and the absorbance value of the positive clone in phage ELISA was examined in AS patients. Seventeen out of twenty randomly selected phage clones exhibited specific reaction with purified sera IgG from AS patients, among them seven coming from the same clone whose inserted peptide sequence was LALPPLAPNHHH (named "AS1"). Phage ELISA results showed that the positive reaction rate of the AS1 clone was 92.0% with AS patients, significantly different (P<0.01) from those with SLE patients (56.7%), RA patients (50.0%), OA patients (13.3%), and healthy controls (14.0%). Absorbance value of the AS1 clone in phage ELISA was significantly higher than those in the other groups (P<0.05). In addition, the absorbance value of the AS1 clone showed no statistically significant correlation with ESR and CRP in AS patients, suggesting that AS1 detects AS patients through a unique mechanism other than inflammation. The short peptide AS1 obtained through screening of a phage random peptide library with purified serum IgG from AS patients can specifically react with the sera of AS patients, and thereby may be a candidate of AS-specific serum biomarkers.
Systematic resequencing of X-chromosome synaptic genes in autism spectrum disorder and schizophrenia.	Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and schizophrenia (SCZ) are two common neurodevelopmental syndromes that result from the combined effects of environmental and genetic factors. We set out to test the hypothesis that rare variants in many different genes, including de novo variants, could predispose to these conditions in a fraction of cases. In addition, for both disorders, males are either more significantly or more severely affected than females, which may be explained in part by X-linked genetic factors. Therefore, we directly sequenced 111 X-linked synaptic genes in individuals with ASD (n = 142; 122 males and 20 females) or SCZ (n = 143; 95 males and 48 females). We identified >200 non-synonymous variants, with an excess of rare damaging variants, which suggest the presence of disease-causing mutations. Truncating mutations in genes encoding the calcium-related protein IL1RAPL1 (already described in Piton et al. Hum Mol Genet 2008) and the monoamine degradation enzyme monoamine oxidase B were found in ASD and SCZ, respectively. Moreover, several promising non-synonymous rare variants were identified in genes encoding proteins involved in regulation of neurite outgrowth and other various synaptic functions (MECP2, TM4SF2/TSPAN7, PPP1R3F, PSMD10, MCF2, SLITRK2, GPRASP2, and OPHN1).
Epigenetically reprogramming metastatic tumor cells with an embryonic microenvironment.	We have previously shown that the microenvironment of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) is able to change and reprogram aggressive cancer cells to a less aggressive state. Some mechanisms implicated in the phenotypic changes observed after this exposure are mainly associated with the Nodal signaling pathway, which plays a key role in tumor cell plasticity. However, several other molecular mechanisms might be related directly and/or indirectly to these changes, including microRNA (miRNA) regulation and DNA methylation.
The use and validity of composite taxa in phylogenetic analysis.	In phylogenetic analysis, one possible approach to minimize missing data in DNA supermatrices consists in sampling sequences from different species to obtain a complete sequence for all genes included in the study. We refer to those complete sequences as composite taxa because DNA sequences that are combined belong to different species. An alternative approach is to analyze incomplete supermatrices by coding unavailable DNA sequences as missing. The accuracy of phylogenetic trees estimated using matrices that include composite taxa has recently been questioned, and the best approach for analyzing incomplete supermatrices is highly debated. Through computer simulations, we compared the phylogenetic accuracy of the 2 competing approaches. We explored the effect of composite taxa when inferring higher level relationships, that is, relationships between monophyletic groups. DNA sequences were simulated on a 42-taxon model tree and incomplete supermatrices containing different percentages of missing data were generated. These incomplete supermatrices were analyzed either by coding the missing data with "?" or by reducing the amount of missing data through the combination of 2 or more taxa to generate composite taxa. Of 180 comparisons (18 simulation cases with 2 different inference methods and 5 levels of incompleteness), we observed significantly higher phylogenetic accuracies for composite matrices in 46 comparisons, whereas missing data matrices outperformed composites in 8 comparisons. In all other cases, the phylogenetic accuracy obtained with composite matrices was not significantly different from that of missing data matrices. This study demonstrates that composite taxa represent an interesting approach to minimize the amount of missing data in supermatrices and we suggest that it is the optimal approach to use in phylogenomic studies to reduce computing time.
Methods in DNA methylation profiling.	Metastable and somatically heritable patterns of DNA methylation provide an important level of genomic regulation. In this article, we review methods for analyzing these genome-wide epigenetic patterns and offer a perspective on the ever-expanding literature, which we hope will be useful for investigators who are new to this area. The historical aspects that we cover will be helpful in interpreting this literature and we hope that our discussion of the newest analytical methods will stimulate future progress. We emphasize that no single approach can provide a complete view of the overall methylome, and that combinations of several modalities applied to the same sample set will give the clearest picture. Given the unexpected epigenomic patterns and new biological principles, as well as new disease markers, that have been uncovered in recent studies, it is likely that important discoveries will continue to be made using genome-wide DNA methylation profiling.
Applications and case studies of the next-generation sequencing technologies in food, nutrition and agriculture.	The next-generation sequencing technologies are able to produce millions of short sequence reads in a high-throughput, cost-effective fashion. The emergence of these technologies has not only facilitated genome sequencing but also started to change the landscape of life sciences. Here, I survey their major applications ranging from whole-genome sequencing and resequencing, single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) and structural variation discovery, to mRNA and noncoding RNA profiling and protein-nucleic acid interaction assay. These case studies in structural, functional and comparative genomics, metagenomics, and epigenomics are providing a more complete picture of the genome structures and functions. In the near future, we will witness broad impacts of these next-generation sequencing technologies for solving the complex biological problems in food, nutrition and agriculture. In this article, recent patents based information is also included.
Genome-scale DNA methylation analysis.	The haploid human genome contains approximately 29 million CpGs that exist in a methylated, hydroxymethylated or unmethylated state, collectively referred to as the DNA methylome. The methylation status of cytosines in CpGs and occasionally in non-CpG cytosines influences proteinDNA interactions, gene expression, and chromatin structure and stability. The degree of DNA methylation at particular loci may be heritable transgenerationally and may be altered by environmental exposures and diet, potentially contributing to the development of human diseases. For the vast majority of normal and disease methylomes however, less than 1% of the CpGs have been assessed, revealing the formative stage of methylation mapping techniques. Thus, there is significant discovery potential in new genome-scale platforms applied to methylome mapping, particularly oligonucleotide arrays and the transformative technology of next-generation sequencing. Here, we outline the currently used methylation detection reagents and their application to microarray and sequencing platforms. A comparison of the emerging methods is presented, highlighting their degrees of technical complexity, methylome coverage and precision in resolving methylation. Because there are hundreds of unique methylomes to map within one individual and interindividual variation is likely to be significant, international coordination is essential to standardize methylome platforms and to create a full repository of methylome maps from tissues and unique cell types.
Restriction analysis and partial sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene as index for rapid identification of Bacillus species.	Restriction fragment length analysis of PCR amplified 16S rDNA with AluI revealed the presence of a 265bp fragment in all species of Bacillus with the exception of B. cereus and B. thuringiensis, which contains two restriction sites within this fragment which results in three smaller fragments totalling to 265bp. Some distant species of Bacillus with no evidence of this fragment could be delineated into other genera based on phenotypic and genotypic parameters. BLAST search for homologous sequences of individual species revealed that it is a highly conserved region. Multiple alignment of the fragment suggests that a region between 160 and 265bp of the 265bp fragment was a hypervariable region and were highly species-specific. A set of primers was designed for amplification of this hypervariable region. Partial sequencing of the hypervariable region within the 265bp fragment seems an index for identification of Bacillus species.
Similarity analysis of DNA sequences based on the weighted pseudo-entropy.	A DNA primary sequence is a string consisting of letters on an alphabet  = {a, c, g, t}. Based on all of the 2-combinations of the set , here the repetition is allowed, we transform a DNA primary sequence into a special sequence over a set with cardinality 10. With the 10-letter sequence, we associate 10 nonnegative numerical sequences and then derive a 10-component vector by means of a weighted pseudo-entropy, which can reflect the information on elements of a sequence and, especially, the order relation among them. The new quantitative characterization of DNA sequences is sensitive to substitution of the string elements. The examination of the relationship among -globin genes of 15 species illustrates the utility of the proposed approach.
Discovery of recurrent t(6;7)(p25.3;q32.3) translocations in ALK-negative anaplastic large cell lymphomas by massively parallel genomic sequencing.	The genetics of peripheral T-cell lymphomas are poorly understood. The most well-characterized abnormalities are translocations involving ALK, occurring in approximately half of anaplastic large cell lymphomas (ALCLs). To gain insight into the genetics of ALCLs lacking ALK translocations, we combined mate-pair DNA library construction, massively parallel ("Next Generation") sequencing, and a novel bioinformatic algorithm. We identified a balanced translocation disrupting the DUSP22 phosphatase gene on 6p25.3 and adjoining the FRA7H fragile site on 7q32.3 in a systemic ALK-negative ALCL. Using fluorescence in situ hybridization, we demonstrated that the t(6;7)(p25.3;q32.3) was recurrent in ALK-negative ALCLs. Furthermore, t(6;7)(p25.3;q32.3) was associated with down-regulation of DUSP22 and up-regulation of MIR29 microRNAs on 7q32.3. These findings represent the first recurrent translocation reported in ALK-negative ALCL and highlight the utility of massively parallel genomic sequencing to discover novel translocations in lymphoma and other cancers.
Genomic resources in horticultural crops: status, utility and challenges.	A significant review of status and availability of genomic resources in horticultural crops can be utilized for the efficient exploitation of the current research in developing improved varieties and also defining future goals. In this review, we describe the current genomic resources available in major horticultural crops and utility of the genomic and genic sequence information for isolating and characterizing novel useful genes and designing new DNA markers. We have found that these genomic resources have been utilized for both basic and applied research; however the progress is relatively slow. Recent advances in automation and high throughput techniques used in decoding plant genomes play an important role to speed up the genomic research. With the establishment of genome and transcriptome sequencing projects for several horticultural crops, huge wealth of sequence information have been generated. These sequence information have been used extensively for analyzing and understanding genome structures and complexities, comparative and functional genomics and to mine useful genes and molecular markers. However, certain limitations present a number of challenges for the generation and utilization of genomic resources in many important crops.
Sequencing antibody repertoires: the next generation.	Genomic studies have been revolutionized by the use of next generation sequencing (NGS) that delivers huge amounts of sequence information in a short span of time. The number of applications for NGS is rapidly expanding and significantly transforming many areas of life sciences. The field of antibody research and discovery is no exception. Several recent studies have harnessed the power of NGS for analyzing natural or synthetic immunoglobulin repertoires with unprecedented resolution and exploring alternative paths for antibody discovery. Thus, appreciating, and then exploiting, these advances is essential for staying at the edge of antibody innovation.
HiTEC: accurate error correction in high-throughput sequencing data.	High-throughput sequencing technologies produce very large amounts of data and sequencing errors constitute one of the major problems in analyzing such data. Current algorithms for correcting these errors are not very accurate and do not automatically adapt to the given data.
maxAlike: maximum likelihood-based sequence reconstruction with application to improved primer design for unknown sequences.	The task of reconstructing a genomic sequence from a particular species is gaining more and more importance in the light of the rapid development of high-throughput sequencing technologies and their limitations. Applications include not only compensation for missing data in unsequenced genomic regions and the design of oligonucleotide primers for target genes in species with lacking sequence information but also the preparation of customized queries for homology searches.
Practical application of self-organizing maps to interrelate biodiversity and functional data in NGS-based metagenomics.	Next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies have enabled the application of broad-scale sequencing in microbial biodiversity and metagenome studies. Biodiversity is usually targeted by classifying 16S ribosomal RNA genes, while metagenomic approaches target metabolic genes. However, both approaches remain isolated, as long as the taxonomic and functional information cannot be interrelated. Techniques like self-organizing maps (SOMs) have been applied to cluster metagenomes into taxon-specific bins in order to link biodiversity with functions, but have not been applied to broad-scale NGS-based metagenomics yet. Here, we provide a novel implementation, demonstrate its potential and practicability, and provide a web-based service for public usage. Evaluation with published data sets mimicking varyingly complex habitats resulted into classification specificities and sensitivities of close to 100% to above 90% from phylum to genus level for assemblies exceeding 8kb for low and medium complexity data. When applied to five real-world metagenomes of medium complexity from direct pyrosequencing of marine subsurface waters, classifications of assemblies above 2.5kb were in good agreement with fluorescence in situ hybridizations, indicating that biodiversity was mostly retained within the metagenomes, and confirming high classification specificities. This was validated by two protein-based classifications (PBCs) methods. SOMs were able to retrieve the relevant taxa down to the genus level, while surpassing PBCs in resolution. In order to make the approach accessible to a broad audience, we implemented a feature-rich web-based SOM application named TaxSOM, which is freely available at http://www.megx.net/toolbox/taxsom. TaxSOM can classify reads or assemblies exceeding 2.5kb with high accuracy and thus assists in linking biodiversity and functions in metagenome studies, which is a precondition to study microbial ecology in a holistic fashion.
Ribosomal tag pyrosequencing of DNA and RNA from benthic coral reef microbiota: community spatial structure, rare members and nitrogen-cycling guilds.	Ribosomal tag libraries based on DNA and RNA in coral reef sediment from Hawaii show the microbial community to be dominated by the bacterial phyla Proteobacteria, Firmicutes and Actinobacteria, the archaeal order Nitrosopumilales and the uncultivated divisions Marine Group III (Euryarchaeota) and Marine Benthic Group C (Crenarchaeota). Operational taxonomic units (OTUs) number in the high thousands, and richness varies with site, presence or absence of porewater sulfide (sediment depth), and nucleotide pool. Rank abundance curves of DNA-based libraries, but not RNA-based libraries, possess a tail of low abundance taxa, supporting the existence of an inactive 'rare' biosphere. While bacterial libraries from two oxic samples differ markedly, those from two anoxic (sulfidic) samples are similar. The four dominant bacterial OTUs are members of genera that include pathogens, but are found in marine environments, and include facultative anaerobes, i.e. dissimilatory nitrate reducers and denitrifiers. This may explain their abundance in both oxic and anoxic samples. A numerous archaeon is closely related to the lithoautotrophic ammonia oxidizer Nitrosopumilus maritimus. Known bacterial ammonia oxidizers are essentially absent, but bacterial nitrite oxidizers are abundant. Although other studies of this reef found evidence for anaerobic ammonia oxidizers, primer bias rendered that clade invisible to this study.
High-quality draft assemblies of mammalian genomes from massively parallel sequence data.	Massively parallel DNA sequencing technologies are revolutionizing genomics by making it possible to generate billions of relatively short (~100-base) sequence reads at very low cost. Whereas such data can be readily used for a wide range of biomedical applications, it has proven difficult to use them to generate high-quality de novo genome assemblies of large, repeat-rich vertebrate genomes. To date, the genome assemblies generated from such data have fallen far short of those obtained with the older (but much more expensive) capillary-based sequencing approach. Here, we report the development of an algorithm for genome assembly, ALLPATHS-LG, and its application to massively parallel DNA sequence data from the human and mouse genomes, generated on the Illumina platform. The resulting draft genome assemblies have good accuracy, short-range contiguity, long-range connectivity, and coverage of the genome. In particular, the base accuracy is high (99.95%) and the scaffold sizes (N50 size = 11.5 Mb for human and 7.2 Mb for mouse) approach those obtained with capillary-based sequencing. The combination of improved sequencing technology and improved computational methods should now make it possible to increase dramatically the de novo sequencing of large genomes. The ALLPATHS-LG program is available at http://www.broadinstitute.org/science/programs/genome-biology/crd.
Promoter methylation in the PTCH gene in cervical epithelial cancer and ovarian cancer tissue as studied by eight novel Pyrosequencing assays.	DNA methylation status in the CpG sites of promoter regions in cancer-related genes, such as PTCH, has traditionally been investigated using either dye-terminator sequencing or methylation-specific PCR. We aimed to study the PTCH gene promoter methylation in gynecological cancers, with a method that gives a quantitative measure of the methylation status of the promoter region of the studied gene, and for this purpose, we designed novel Pyrosequencing-based assays. Bisulfite-treated genomic DNA (bsDNA) was amplified by standard PCR and applied to novel Pyrosequencing assays, in order to measure the methylated fraction (%) at each CpG site of the PTCH gene promoter. We analyzed 22 squamous cell cervical cancer tissue specimens (11 with good and 11 with poor outcomes after radiotherapy) and 5 ovarian cancer tissue specimens matched with 5 normal ovarian tissue specimens. Six optimized PCR protocols which generated 8 Pyrosequencing assays covering 63 CpG sites in the promoter regions 1 and 2 as well as the previously unanalyzed promoter region 3 in the PTCH gene were developed. The 27 tumor tissue specimens and 5 normal tissues did not show any methylation within any of the 63 CpG sites. Our data suggest that methylation of the PTCH promoter is not a high-prevalence feature of squamous cell cervical cancer or ovarian cancer, but Pyrosequencing assays are a good method for studying promoter methylation.
An overview of the Phalaenopsis orchid genome through BAC end sequence analysis.	Phalaenopsis orchids are popular floral crops, and development of new cultivars is economically important to floricultural industries worldwide. Analysis of orchid genes could facilitate orchid improvement. Bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) end sequences (BESs) can provide the first glimpses into the sequence composition of a novel genome and can yield molecular markers for use in genetic mapping and breeding.
Flexible taxonomic assignment of ambiguous sequencing reads.	To characterize the diversity of bacterial populations in metagenomic studies, sequencing reads need to be accurately assigned to taxonomic units in a given reference taxonomy. Reads that cannot be reliably assigned to a unique leaf in the taxonomy (ambiguous reads) are typically assigned to the lowest common ancestor of the set of species that match it. This introduces a potentially severe error in the estimation of bacteria present in the sample due to false positives, since all species in the subtree rooted at the ancestor are implicitly assigned to the read even though many of them may not match it.
PICS-Ord: unlimited coding of ambiguous regions by pairwise identity and cost scores ordination.	We present a novel method to encode ambiguously aligned regions in fixed multiple sequence alignments by 'Pairwise Identity and Cost Scores Ordination' (PICS-Ord). The method works via ordination of sequence identity or cost scores matrices by means of Principal Coordinates Analysis (PCoA). After identification of ambiguous regions, the method computes pairwise distances as sequence identities or cost scores, ordinates the resulting distance matrix by means of PCoA, and encodes the principal coordinates as ordered integers. Three biological and 100 simulated datasets were used to assess the performance of the new method.
Solexa sequencing analysis of chicken pre-adipocyte microRNAs.	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs that play important roles in a variety of biological processes. Studies of miRNAs in mammals suggest that many are involved in lipid metabolism and adipocyte differentiation, but little is known about miRNA expression profiles during chicken adipogenesis. In this study, the Solexa sequencing approach was used to sequence a small RNA library prepared from Arbor Acres broiler pre-adipocytes, and more than 10 short sequence reads were obtained. From these, 159 known chicken miRNAs and 63 novel miRNAs were identified using a bioinformatics approach. Fifty-nine of these miRNA genes were further organized into 27 compact miRNA genomic clusters, and 34 new chicken mirtrons were also discovered, among which there were 27 mirtron candidates. These findings should serve as a foundation for future research on the functional roles of miRNAs in chicken adipocyte differentiation.
Systematic cross-validation of 454 sequencing and pyrosequencing for the exact quantification of DNA methylation patterns with single CpG resolution.	New high-throughput sequencing technologies promise a very sensitive and high-resolution analysis of DNA methylation patterns in quantitative terms. However, a detailed and comprehensive comparison with existing validated DNA methylation analysis methods is not yet available. Therefore, a systematic cross-validation of 454 sequencing and conventional pyrosequencing, both of which offer exact quantification of methylation levels with a single CpG dinucleotide resolution, was performed.
Molecular and biochemical characterisation of a novel mutation in POLG associated with Alpers syndrome.	DNA polymerase  (POLG) is the only known mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) polymerase. It mediates mtDNA replication and base excision repair. Mutations in the POLG gene lead to reduction of functional mtDNA (mtDNA depletion and/or deletions) and are therefore predicted to result in defective oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS). Many mutations map to the polymerase and exonuclease domains of the enzyme and produce a broad clinical spectrum. The most frequent mutation p.A467T is localised in the linker region between these domains. In compound heterozygote patients the p.A467T mutation has been described to be associated amongst others with fatal childhood encephalopathy. These patients have a poorer survival rate compared to homozygotes.
Rapid detection of genetic variants in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy by custom DNA resequencing array in clinical practice.	Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is the most common inherited cardiac disease (1/500) and the most common cause of sudden cardiac death in young people. Pathogenic mutation detection of HCM is having a growing impact on the medical management of patients and their families. However, the remarkable genetic and allelic heterogeneity makes molecular analysis by conventional methods very time-consuming, expensive and difficult to realise in a routine diagnostic molecular laboratory.
Factors affecting the detection and quantification of mitochondrial point heteroplasmy using Sanger sequencing and SNaPshot minisequencing.	Mitochondrial DNA analysis plays an important role in forensic science as well as in the diagnosis of mitochondrial diseases. The occurrence of two different nucleotides at the same sequence position can be caused either by heteroplasmy or by a mix of samples. The detection of superimposed positions in forensic samples and their quantification can provide additional information and might also be useful to identify a mixed sample. Therefore, the detection and visualization of heteroplasmy has to be robust and sensitive at the same time to allow for reliable interpretation of results and to avoid a loss of information. In this study, different factors influencing the analysis of mitochondrial heteroplasmy (DNA polymerases, PCR and sequencing primers, nucleotide incorporation, and sequence context) were examined. BigDye Sanger sequencing and the SNaPshot minisequencing were compared as to the accuracy of detection using artificially created mitochondrial DNA mixtures. Both sequencing strategies showed to be robust, and the parameters tested showed to have a variable impact on the display of nucleotide ratios. However, experiments revealed a high correlation between the expected and the measured nucleotide ratios in cell mixtures. Compared to the SNaPshot minisequencing, Sanger sequencing proved to be the more robust and reliable method for quantification of nucleotide ratios but showed a lower detection sensitivity of minor cytosine components.
Genetics in ocular inflammation--basic principles.	The ability to identify individuals at risk of ocular disease, or to determine the potential severity of disease or response to therapy is the current focus of much research. These studies are being led by genetic analysis of individuals to determine associations with alterations in gens that may explain manifestations of particular diseases. In this review we consider the basic principles behind genetic studies in general and of ocular disease in particular. We address the methodologies being utilised, and the results derived so far. The potential and pitfalls of such studies are relevant to the concept of personalised medicine and better defined clinical trials.
Targeted next-generation sequencing for the molecular genetic diagnostics of cardiomyopathies.	Today, mutations in more than 30 different genes have been found to cause inherited cardiomyopathies, some associated with very poor prognosis. However, because of the genetic heterogeneity and limitations in throughput and scalability of current diagnostic tools up until now, it is hardly possible to genetically characterize patients with cardiomyopathy in a fast, comprehensive, and cost-efficient manner.
PoPoolation: a toolbox for population genetic analysis of next generation sequencing data from pooled individuals.	Recent statistical analyses suggest that sequencing of pooled samples provides a cost effective approach to determine genome-wide population genetic parameters. Here we introduce PoPoolation, a toolbox specifically designed for the population genetic analysis of sequence data from pooled individuals. PoPoolation calculates estimates of (Watterson), (), and Tajima's D that account for the bias introduced by pooling and sequencing errors, as well as divergence between species. Results of genome-wide analyses can be graphically displayed in a sliding window plot. PoPoolation is written in Perl and R and it builds on commonly used data formats. Its source code can be downloaded from http://code.google.com/p/popoolation/. Furthermore, we evaluate the influence of mapping algorithms, sequencing errors, and read coverage on the accuracy of population genetic parameter estimates from pooled data.
Clinically significant improvements in clinical microbiology]	Technical developments have made several clinically significant improvements in clinical microbiology possible during the latest decade. DNA sequencing and mass spectrometry have dramatically changed accuracy and speed of the identification of bacteria. Polymerase chain reaction amplification of bacterial DNA and DNA sequencing have provided hitherto unseen opportunities for identification of non-cultivable bacteria in clinical samples. Routine functional characterization of bacteria isolated from patients is constantly expanding. The changes benefit both individual patients and the understanding of bacterial pathology.
PoolHap: inferring haplotype frequencies from pooled samples by next generation sequencing.	With the advance of next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies, increasingly ambitious applications are becoming feasible. A particularly powerful one is the sequencing of polymorphic, pooled samples. The pool can be naturally occurring, as in the case of multiple pathogen strains in a blood sample, multiple types of cells in a cancerous tissue sample, or multiple isoforms of mRNA in a cell. In these cases, it's difficult or impossible to partition the subtypes experimentally before sequencing, and those subtype frequencies must hence be inferred. In addition, investigators may occasionally want to artificially pool the sample of a large number of individuals for reasons of cost-efficiency, e.g., when carrying out genetic mapping using bulked segregant analysis. Here we describe PoolHap, a computational tool for inferring haplotype frequencies from pooled samples when haplotypes are known. The key insight into why PoolHap works is that the large number of SNPs that come with genome-wide coverage can compensate for the uneven coverage across the genome. The performance of PoolHap is illustrated and discussed using simulated and real data. We show that PoolHap is able to accurately estimate the proportions of haplotypes with less than 2% error for 34-strain mixtures with 2X total coverage Arabidopsis thaliana whole genome polymorphism data. This method should facilitate greater biological insight into heterogeneous samples that are difficult or impossible to isolate experimentally. Software and users manual are freely available at http://arabidopsis.gmi.oeaw.ac.at/quan/poolhap/.
Four PCR primers necessary for the detection of periplasmic nitrate reductase genes in all groups of Proteobacteria and in environmental DNA.	Generic primers are available for detecting bacterial genes required for almost every reaction of the biological nitrogen cycle, the one notable exception being napA (gene for the molybdoprotein of the periplasmic nitrate reductase) encoding periplasmic nitrate reductases. Using an iterative approach, we report the first successful design of three forward oligonucleotide primers and one reverse primer that, in three separate PCRs, can amplify napA DNA from all five groups of Proteobacteria. All 140 napA sequences currently listed in the NCBI (National Center for Biotechnology Information) database are predicted to be amplified by one or more of these primer pairs. We demonstrate that two pairs of these primers also amplify PCR products of the predicted sizes from DNA isolated from human faeces, confirming their ability to direct the amplification of napA fragments from mixed populations. Analysis of the resulting amplicons by high-throughput sequencing will enable a good estimate to be made of both the range and relative abundance of nitrate-reducing bacteria in any community, subject only to any unavoidable bias inherent in a PCR approach to molecular characterization of a highly diverse target.
A case of sepsis and meningitis caused by probable travel-related Neisseria meningitidis serogroup B infection: the first report of N. meningitidis ST-4893 in Japan.	Herein we present a case of Neisseria meningitidis-related sepsis and meningitis in a 60-year-old woman. The N. meningitidis strain was identified as serogroup B and sequence type (ST)-4893 by multilocus sequence typing (MLST). The patient in this case had visited France prior to development of symptoms. No meningococcal isolate belonging to ST-4893 has been identified in Japan previously, whereas an ST-4893 strain from France has been reported in the MLST database. These results strongly suggest that this case is likely to have been imported from France.
Massive parallel DNA pyrosequencing analysis of the tumor suppressor BRG1/SMARCA4 in lung primary tumors.	The tumor suppressor gene, SMARCA4 (or BRG1), which encodes the ATPase component of the chromatin remodeling complex SWI/SNF, is commonly inactivated by mutations and deletions in lung cancer cell lines. However, SMARCA4 alterations appear to be rare in lung primary tumors. Ultra-deep sequencing technologies provide a promising alternative to achieve a sensitivity superior to that of current sequencing strategies. Here we used ultra-deep pyrosequencing to screen for mutations over the entire SMARCA4 coding region in 12 lung tumors without detectable BRG1 protein. While automatic-fluorescence-based sequencing detected one somatic mutation (p.K586X), the pyrosequencing revealed additional variants, thus increasing the sensitivity. One of the variants, which affected a consensus splice site, was confirmed by individual cloning of PCR products, ruling out the possibility of PCR or pyrosequencing artifacts. This mutation, confirmed to be somatic, was present at a frequency of ten percent, suggesting normal cell contamination in the tumor. Our analysis also allowed us to determine the sensitivity and to identify some limitations of the technology. In conclusion, in addition to cell lines, SMARCA4 is biallelically inactivated in a significant proportion of lung primary tumors, thereby constituting one of the most important genes contributing to the development of this type of cancer.
Depicting more accurate pictures of protistan community complexity using pyrosequencing of hypervariable SSU rRNA gene regions.	Initial environmental pyrosequencing studies suggested highly complex protistan communities with phylotype richness decisively higher than previously estimated. However, recent studies on individual bacteria or artificial bacterial communities evidenced that pyrosequencing errors may skew our view of the true complexity of microbial communities. We pyrosequenced two diversity markers (hypervariable regions V4 and V9 of the small-subunit rDNA) of an intertidal protistan model community, using the Roche GS-FLX and the most recent GS-FLX Titanium sequencing systems. After pyrosequencing 24 reference sequences we obtained up to 2039 unique tags (from 3879 V4 GS-FLX Titanium reads), 77% of which were singletons. Even binning sequences that share 97% similarity still emulated a pseudodiversity exceeding the true complexity of the model community up to three times (V9 GS-FLX). Pyrosequencing error rates were higher for V4 fragments compared with the V9 domain and for the GS-FLX Titanium compared with the GS-FLX system. Furthermore, this experiment revealed that error rates are taxon-specific. As an outcome of this study we suggest a fast and efficient strategy to discriminate pyrosequencing signals from noise in order to more realistically depict the structure of protistan communities using simple tools that are implemented in standard tag data-processing pipelines.
Usefulness of porA sequencing in distinguishing sporadic and linked cases of serogroup B invasive meningococcal disease in Suffolk, United Kingdom, December 2009 to January 2010.	A cluster of three fatal cases of invasive meningococcal disease due to Neisseria meningitidis serogroup Bin a town in Suffolk, United Kingdom, during December 2009 to January 2010 was reported to the local Health Protection Unit. This paper describes the investigation undertaken to identify any potential epidemiological links among the cases, to determine if this was an outbreak and to consider whether to implement community-wide interventions and control measures. Case epidemiological information in addition to serogroup and genosubtyping (porA gene sequencing) data of the infecting organism was gathered on all cases in this reported cluster. Genosubtyping was also retrospectively requested for all serogroup B cases confirmed in Suffolk during 2009. Extensive investigation failed to establish an epidemiological link among the cluster of fatal cases of serogroup B invasive meningococcal disease in Suffolk. By demonstrating a number of distinct strains, the genosubtyping of isolates proved to be useful in the public health management of this incident by serving to exclude a community outbreak and preventing unnecessary mass chemoprophylaxis.
Next-generation sequencing of Coccidioides immitis isolated during cluster investigation.	Next-generation sequencing enables use of whole-genome sequence typing (WGST) as a viable and discriminatory tool for genotyping and molecular epidemiologic analysis. We used WGST to confirm the linkage of a cluster of Coccidioides immitis isolates from 3 patients who received organ transplants from a single donor who later had positive test results for coccidioidomycosis. Isolates from the 3 patients were nearly genetically identical (a total of 3 single-nucleotide polymorphisms identified among them), thereby demonstrating direct descent of the 3 isolates from an original isolate. We used WGST to demonstrate the genotypic relatedness of C. immitis isolates that were also epidemiologically linked. Thus, WGST offers unique benefits to public health for investigation of clusters considered to be linked to a single source.
Analysis of the CYP21A1P pseudogene: indication of mutational diversity and CYP21A2-like and duplicated CYP21A2 genes.	The CYP21A1P gene downstream of the XA gene, carrying 15 deteriorated mutations, is a nonfunctional pseudogene that shares 98% nucleotide sequence homology with CYP21A2 located on chromosome 6p21.3. However, these mutations in the CYP21A1P gene are not totally involved in each individual. From our analysis of 100 healthy ethnic Chinese (i.e., Taiwanese) (n=200 chromosomes) using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) products combined with an amplification-created restriction site (ACRS) method and DNA sequencing, we found that approximately 10% of CYP21A1P alleles (n=195 chromosomes) presented the CYP21A2 sequence; frequencies of P30, V281, Q318, and R356 in that locus were approximately 24%, 21%, 11%, and 34%, respectively, and approximately 90% of the CYP21A1P alleles had 15 mutated loci. In addition, approximately 2.5% (n=5 chromosomes) showed four haplotypes of the 3.7-kb TaqI-produced fragment of the CYP21A2-like gene and one duplicated CYP21A2 gene. We conclude that the pseudogene of the CYP21A1P mutation presents diverse variants. Moreover, the existence of the CYP21A2-like gene is more abundant than that of the duplicated CYP21A2 gene downstream of the XA gene and could not be distinguished from the CYP21A2-TNXB gene; thus, it may be misdiagnosed by previously established methods for congenital adrenal hyperplasia caused by a 21-hydroxylase deficiency.
Detecting mutations in PfCRT and PfMDR1 genes among Plasmodium falciparum isolates from Saudi Arabia by pyrosequencing.	The emergence of chloroquine resistance in Plasmodium falciparum is a significant public health problem where malaria is endemic. We aimed to evaluate the efficacy of pyrosequencing to assess chloroquine resistance among P. falciparum isolates from the southwestern region of Saudi Arabia by analyzing the K76T and N86Y mutations in the P. falciparum chloroquine resistance transporter (PfCRT) and P. falciparum multidrug resistance 1 (PfMDR1) genes, respectively. Blood samples (n = 121) from microscopically positive P. falciparum cases were collected. DNA was extracted, and fragments from each of the genes were amplified by PCR using new sets of primers. The amplicons were sequenced using a pyrosequencer. All of the 121 samples were amplified for assessment of the PfCRT K76T and PfMDR1 N86Y mutations. All of the samples amplified for the PfCRT 76T mutation harbored the ACA codon (121/121; 100%), indicating the presence of the 76T mutation. For the PfMDR1 N86Y mutation, 72/121 samples (59.5%) had the sequence AAT at that position, indicating the presence of the wild-type allele (86N). However, 49/121 samples (40.5%) had a TAT codon, indicating the mutant allele (Y) at position 86. This study shows that pyrosequencing could be useful as a high throughput, rapid, and sensitive assay for the detection of specific single nucleotide polymorphisms in drug-resistant P. falciparum strains. This will help health authorities in malaria-endemic regions to adopt new malaria control strategies that will be applicable for diagnostic and drug resistance assays for malaria and other life-threatening pathogens that are endemic in their respective countries.
Pseudomonas putida KT2440 genome update by cDNA sequencing and microarray transcriptomics.	Pseudomonas putida KT2440 is a completely sequenced biosafety strain that has retained its capability to survive and function in the environment. The global mRNA expression profiles of the KT2440 strain grown at 10C and 30C were determined by deep cDNA sequencing to refine the genome annotation. Transcriptome sequencing identified 36 yet unknown small non-coding RNAs, 143 novel ORFs in 106 intergenic regions, 42 unclassified genes and eight highly expressed leaderless mRNA transcripts. The genome coordinates of eight genes and the organization of 57 operons were corrected. No overrepresented sequence motifs were detected in the 5'-untranslated regions. The 50 most highly expressed genes made up 60% of the total mRNA pool. Comparison of cDNA sequencing, Affymetrix and Progenika microarray data from the same mRNA preparation revealed a higher sensitivity and specificity of cDNA sequencing, a relatively poor correlation between the normalized cDNA reads and microarray signal intensities, and a systematic signal-dependent bias of microarrays in the detection of differentially regulated genes. The study demonstrates the power of next-generation cDNA sequencing for the quantitation of mRNA transcripts and the refinement of bacterial genome annotation.
Assessing combined methylation-sensitive high resolution melting and pyrosequencing for the analysis of heterogeneous DNA methylation.	Heterogeneous DNA methylation leads to difficulties in accurate detection and quantification of methylation. Methylation-sensitive high resolution melting (MS-HRM) is unique among regularly used methods for DNA methylation analysis in that heterogeneous methylation can be readily identified, although not quantified, by inspection of the melting curves. Bisulfite pyrosequencing has been used to estimate the level of heterogeneous methylation by quantifying methylation levels present at individual CpG dinucleotides. Sequentially combining the two methodologies using MS-HRM to screen the amplification products prior to bisulfite pyrosequencing would be advantageous. This would not only replace the quality control step using agarose gel analysis prior to the pyrosequencing step but would also provide important qualitative information in its own right. We chose to analyze DAPK1 as it is an important tumor suppressor gene frequently heterogeneously methylated in a number of malignancies, including chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). A region of the DAPK1 promoter was analyzed in ten CLL samples by MS-HRM. By using a biotinylated primer, bisulfite pyrosequencing could be used to directly analyze the samples. MS-HRM revealed the presence of various extents of heterogeneous DAPK1 methylation in all CLL samples. Further analysis of the biotinylated MS-HRM products by bisulfite pyrosequencing provided quantitative information for each CpG dinucleotide analyzed, and confirmed the presence of heterogeneous DNA methylation. Whereas each method could be used individually, MS-HRM and bisulfite pyrosequencing provided complementary information for the assessment of heterogeneous methylation.
Lyssavirus detection and typing using pyrosequencing.	Rabies is a fatal zoonosis caused by a nonsegmented negative-strand RNA virus, namely, rabies virus (RABV). Apart from RABV, at least 10 additional species are known as rabies-related lyssaviruses (RRVs), and some of them are responsible for occasional spillovers into humans. More lyssaviruses have also been detected recently in different bat ecosystems, thanks to the application of molecular diagnostic methods. Due to the variety of the members of the genus Lyssavirus, there is the necessity to develop a reliable molecular assay for rabies diagnosis able to detect and differentiate among the existing rabies and rabies-related viruses. In the present study, a pyrosequencing protocol targeting the 3' terminus of the nucleoprotein (N) gene was applied for the rapid characterization of lyssaviruses. Correct identification of species was achieved for each sample tested. Results from the pyrosequencing assay were also confirmed by those obtained using the Sanger sequencing method. A pan-lyssavirus one-step reverse transcription (RT)-PCR was developed within the framework of the pyrosequencing procedure. The sensitivity (Se) of the one-step RT-PCR assay was determined by using in vitro-transcribed RNA and serial dilutions of titrated viruses. The assay demonstrated high analytical and relative specificity (Sp) (98.94%) and sensitivity (99.71%). To date, this is the first case in which pyrosequencing has been applied for lyssavirus identification using a cheaper diagnostic approach than the one for all the other protocols for rapid typing that we are acquainted with. Results from this study indicate that this procedure is suitable for lyssavirus detection in samples of both human and animal origin.
Performance, accuracy, and Web server for evolutionary placement of short sequence reads under maximum likelihood.	We present an evolutionary placement algorithm (EPA) and a Web server for the rapid assignment of sequence fragments (short reads) to edges of a given phylogenetic tree under the maximum-likelihood model. The accuracy of the algorithm is evaluated on several real-world data sets and compared with placement by pair-wise sequence comparison, using edit distances and BLAST. We introduce a slow and accurate as well as a fast and less accurate placement algorithm. For the slow algorithm, we develop additional heuristic techniques that yield almost the same run times as the fast version with only a small loss of accuracy. When those additional heuristics are employed, the run time of the more accurate algorithm is comparable with that of a simple BLAST search for data sets with a high number of short query sequences. Moreover, the accuracy of the EPA is significantly higher, in particular when the sample of taxa in the reference topology is sparse or inadequate. Our algorithm, which has been integrated into RAxML, therefore provides an equally fast but more accurate alternative to BLAST for tree-based inference of the evolutionary origin and composition of short sequence reads. We are also actively developing a Web server that offers a freely available service for computing read placements on trees using the EPA.
Highly sensitive pyrosequencing based on the capture of free adenosine 5' phosphosulfate with adenosine triphosphate sulfurylase.	In pyrosequencing chemistry, four cascade enzymatic reactions with the catalysis of polymerase, adenosine triphosphate (ATP) sulfurylase, luciferase, and apyrase are employed. The sensitivity of pyrosequencing mainly depends on the concentration of luciferase which catalyzes a photoemission reaction. However, the side-reaction of adenosine 5' phosphosulfate (APS, an analogue of ATP) with luciferase resulted in an unavoidable background signal; hence, the sensitivity cannot be much higher due to the simultaneous increase of the background signal when a larger amount of luciferase is used. In this study, we demonstrated a sensitive pyrosequencing using a large amount of ATP sulfurylase to lower the concentration of free APS in the pyrosequencing mixture. As the complex of ATP sulfurylase and APS does not react with luciferase, a large amount of luciferase can be used to achieve a sensitive pyrosequencing reaction. This sensitivity-improving pyrosequencing chemistry allows the use of an inexpensive light sensor photodiode array for constructing a portable pyrosequencer, a potential tool in a point-of-care test (POCT).
Identification and characterization of wheat long non-protein coding RNAs responsive to powdery mildew infection and heat stress by using microarray analysis and SBS sequencing.	Biotic and abiotic stresses, such as powdery mildew infection and high temperature, are important limiting factors for yield and grain quality in wheat production. Emerging evidences suggest that long non-protein coding RNAs (npcRNAs) are developmentally regulated and play roles in development and stress responses of plants. However, identification of long npcRNAs is limited to a few plant species, such as Arabidopsis, rice and maize, no systematic identification of long npcRNAs and their responses to abiotic and biotic stresses is reported in wheat.
A framework for variation discovery and genotyping using next-generation DNA sequencing data.	Recent advances in sequencing technology make it possible to comprehensively catalog genetic variation in population samples, creating a foundation for understanding human disease, ancestry and evolution. The amounts of raw data produced are prodigious, and many computational steps are required to translate this output into high-quality variant calls. We present a unified analytic framework to discover and genotype variation among multiple samples simultaneously that achieves sensitive and specific results across five sequencing technologies and three distinct, canonical experimental designs. Our process includes (i) initial read mapping; (ii) local realignment around indels; (iii) base quality score recalibration; (iv) SNP discovery and genotyping to find all potential variants; and (v) machine learning to separate true segregating variation from machine artifacts common to next-generation sequencing technologies. We here discuss the application of these tools, instantiated in the Genome Analysis Toolkit, to deep whole-genome, whole-exome capture and multi-sample low-pass (4) 1000 Genomes Project datasets.
Genome sequencing of environmental Escherichia coli expands understanding of the ecology and speciation of the model bacterial species.	Defining bacterial species remains a challenging problem even for the model bacterium Escherichia coli and has major practical consequences for reliable diagnosis of infectious disease agents and regulations for transport and possession of organisms of economic importance. E. coli traditionally is thought to live within the gastrointestinal tract of humans and other warm-blooded animals and not to survive for extended periods outside its host; this understanding is the basis for its widespread use as a fecal contamination indicator. Here, we report the genome sequences of nine environmentally adapted strains that are phenotypically and taxonomically indistinguishable from typical E. coli (commensal or pathogenic). We find, however, that the commensal genomes encode for more functions that are important for fitness in the human gut, do not exchange genetic material with their environmental counterparts, and hence do not evolve according to the recently proposed fragmented speciation model. These findings are consistent with a more stringent and ecologic definition for bacterial species than the current definition and provide means to start replacing traditional approaches of defining distinctive phenotypes for new species with omics-based procedures. They also have important implications for reliable diagnosis and regulation of pathogenic E. coli and for the coliform cell-counting test.
Genomic insight into the common carp (Cyprinus carpio) genome by sequencing analysis of BAC-end sequences.	Common carp is one of the most important aquaculture teleost fish in the world. Common carp and other closely related Cyprinidae species provide over 30% aquaculture production in the world. However, common carp genomic resources are still relatively underdeveloped. BAC end sequences (BES) are important resources for genome research on BAC-anchored genetic marker development, linkage map and physical map integration, and whole genome sequence assembling and scaffolding.
Identification of putative new Escherichia coli flagellar antigens from human origin using serology, PCR-RFlP and DNA sequencing methods.	Escherichia coli has been isolated frequently, showing flagellar antigens that are not recognized by any of the 53 antisera, provided by the most important reference center of E. coli, The International Escherichia and Klebsiella Center (WHO) of the Statens Serum Institute, Copenhagen, Denmark. The objective of this study was to characterize flagellar antigens of E. coli that express non-typeable H antigens. The methods used were serology, PCR-RFLP and DNA sequencing. This characterization was performed by gene amplification of the fliC (flagellin protein) by polymerase chain reaction in all 53 standards E.coli strains for the H antigens and 20 E. coli strains for which the H antigen was untypeable. The amplicons were digested by restriction enzymes, and different restriction enzyme profiles were observed. Anti-sera were produced in rabbits, for the non-typeable strains, and agglutination tests were carried out. In conclusion,the results showed that although non-typeable and typable H antigens strains had similar flagellar antigens, the two types of strains were distinct in terms of nucleotide sequence, and did not phenotypically react with the standard antiserum, as expected. Thirteen strains had been characterized as likely putative new H antigen using PCR-RFLP techniques, DNA sequencing and/or serology.
Prevalence and molecular study of G6PD deficiency in Malaysian Orang Asli.	This study aims to define the prevalence and the molecular basis of G6PD deficiency in the Negrito tribe of the Malaysian Orang Asli. Four hundred and eighty seven consenting Negrito volunteers were screened for G6PD deficiency through the use of a fluorescent spot test. DNA from deficient individuals underwent PCR-RFLP analysis using thirteen recognized G6PD mutations. In the instances when the mutation could not be identified by PCR-RFLP, the entire coding region of the G6PD gene was subjected to DNA sequencing. In total, 9% (44/486) of the sample were found to be G6PD-deficient. However, only 25 samples were subjected to PCR-RFLP and DNA sequencing. Of these, three were found to carry Viangchan, one Coimbra and 16, a combination of C1311T in exon 11 and IVS11 T93C. Mutation(s) for the five remaining samples are unknown. The mean G6PD enzyme activity ranged 5.7IU/gHb in deficient individuals. Our results demonstrate that the frequency of G6PD deficiency is higher among the Negrito Orang Asli than other Malaysian races. The dual presence of C1311T and IVS11 T93C in 64% of the deficient individuals (16/44) could well be a result of genetic drift within this isolated group.
Genomics for key players in the N cycle from guinea pigs to the next frontier.	While sequencing methods were available in the late 1970s, it was not until the human genome project and a significant influx of funds for such research that this technology became high throughput. The fields of microbiology and microbial ecology, among many others, have been tremendously impacted over the years, to such an extent that the determination of complete microbial genome sequences is now commonplace. Given the lower costs of next-generation sequencing platforms, even small laboratories from around the world will be able to generate millions of base pairs of data, equivalent to entire genomes worth of sequence information. With this prospect just around the corner, it is timely to provide an overview of the genomics process: from sample preparation to some of the analytical methods used to gain functional knowledge from sequence information.
TP53 - molecular soldier's mutations in bladder cancer in the Kashmiri population.	We made a preliminary attempt to study mutations in exons 5-8 (the DNA binding domain) of the tumor suppressor gene TP53, in urinary bladder cancer patients from Kashmir. Further the relation of clinicopathological characteristics with mutation status was asessed.
Molecular evidence for fat-tailed sheep domestication.	The sheep is one of the most successful and widely spread domestic animals. Archaeological evidence traces the first domestic sheep back to the Near East region around 9,000years ago. It is also known that soon after, the domesticated sheep started to flow out of the centre of origin and spread all over the ancient world following the expansion of agriculture. Throughout time, herders, nature elements and eventually some hybridization with different wild relatives produced a multitude of breeds. However, until the advent of the molecular genetics field, very little was known about the origins of most of those breeds. Two decades after the first genetic studies, we have gathered considerable information on the origins, phylogenetic relationships and patterns of genetic diversity of the sheep across the world. Indeed, the genetic studies confirmed the Near East region as the main centre of origin and also revealed other contributions from other regions. Specifically about the fat-tailed sheep, molecular genetics was also able to link their maternal origin to a specific group. So far, modern sheep have originated from five different maternal origins. Nonetheless, the technological advances of the DNA sequencing techniques are bringing more data that is showing the complexity of the domestication process.
A DNA pooling-based case-control study of myopia candidate genes COL11A1, COL18A1, FBN1, and PLOD1 in a Chinese population.	We examined the relationship between high myopia and common polymorphisms in four candidate genes: collagen, type XI, alpha 1 (COL11A1); collagen, type XVIII, alpha 1 (COL18A1); fibrillin 1 (FBN1); and procollagen-lysine 1,2-oxoglutarate 5-dioxygenase 1 (PLOD1). These genes were selected because rare pathogenic mutations in these genes cause disease syndromes that have myopia, usually high myopia, as one of the common presenting features.
High-resolution analysis of DNA copy number alterations in patients with isolated sporadic keratoconus.	To determine whether patients with sporadic, non-familial keratoconus and no pathogenic mutations in the visual system homeobox 1 (VSX1) gene have evidence of chromosomal copy number alterations.
Sequencing and analysis of the complete genome sequence of WU polyomavirus in Fuzhou, China]	WU polyomavirus (WUPyV), a new member of the genus Polyomavirus in the family Polyomaviridae, is recently found in patients with respiratory tract infections. In our study, the complete genome of the two WUPyV isolates (FZ18, FZTF) were sequenced and deposited in GenBank (accession nos. FJ890981, FJ890982). The two sequences of the WUPyV isolates in this study varied little from each other. Compared with other complete genome sequences of WUPyV in GenBank (strain B0, S1-S4, CLFF, accession nos. EF444549, EF444550, EF444551, EF444552, EF444553, EU296475 respectively), the sequence length in nucleotides is 5228bp, 1bp shorter than the known sequences. The deleted base pair was at nucleotide position 4536 in the non-coding region of large T antigen (LTAg). The genome of the WUPyV encoded for five proteins. They were three capsid proteins: VP2, VP1, VP3 and LTAg, small T antigen (STAg), respectively. To investigate whether these nucleotide sequences had any unique features, we compared the genome sequence of the 2 WUPyV isolates in Fuzhou, China to those documented in the GenBank database by using PHYLIP software version 3.65 and the neighbor-joining method. The 2 WUPyV strains in our study were clustered together. Strain FZTF was more closed to the reference strain B0 of Australian than strain FZ18.
Torque teno mini virus infection and multiple sclerosis.	Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a disease of young adults which is characterized by autoimmune demyelination of the central nervous system. Interaction of genetics and environmental factors are required to cause MS. Among the proposed environmental factors for MS, viral infections are thought to play a role in the pathogenesis of the disease. Torque teno mini virus (TTMV), which has recently been shown to infect humans, is a member of circoviridae, and has a circular DNA with 2860 nucleotides. Since there are a few data about the pathogenicity of this virus, this study sought to investigate the presence of TTMV in sera from MS patients and healthy individuals. We studied 149 serum samples from MS patients and 150 sera of healthy individuals. Serum DNA was extracted using phenol-chloroform and was subjected to nested polymerase chain reaction. TTMV-DNA was detected in 24 (16%) sera of the healthy blood donors and in 21 (14.1%) samples of the MS patients, where the difference did not reach significance (p > .05). The result of this study could not establish an association between TTMV infection and MS.
Protocol matters: which methylome are you actually studying?	The field of epigenetics is now capitalizing on the vast number of emerging technologies, largely based on second-generation sequencing, which interrogate DNA methylation status and histone modifications genome-wide. However, getting an exhaustive and unbiased view of a methylome at a reasonable cost is proving to be a significant challenge. In this article, we take a closer look at the impact of the DNA sequence and bias effects introduced to datasets by genome-wide DNA methylation technologies and where possible, explore the bioinformatics tools that deconvolve them. There remains much to be learned about the performance of genome-wide technologies, the data we mine from these assays and how it reflects the actual biology. While there are several methods to interrogate the DNA methylation status genome-wide, our opinion is that no single technique suitably covers the minimum criteria of high coverage and, high resolution at a reasonable cost. In fact, the fraction of the methylome that is studied currently depends entirely on the inherent biases of the protocol employed. There is promise for this to change, as the third generation of sequencing technologies is expected to again 'revolutionize' the way that we study genomes and epigenomes.
Java web tools for PCR, in silico PCR, and oligonucleotide assembly and analysis.	The polymerase chain reaction is fundamental to molecular biology and is the most important practical molecular technique for the research laboratory. We have developed and tested efficient tools for PCR primer and probe design, which also predict oligonucleotide properties based on experimental studies of PCR efficiency. The tools provide comprehensive facilities for designing primers for most PCR applications and their combinations, including standard, multiplex, long-distance, inverse, real-time, unique, group-specific, bisulphite modification assays, Overlap-Extension PCR Multi-Fragment Assembly, as well as a programme to design oligonucleotide sets for long sequence assembly by ligase chain reaction. The in silico PCR primer or probe search includes comprehensive analyses of individual primers and primer pairs. It calculates the melting temperature for standard and degenerate oligonucleotides including LNA and other modifications, provides analyses for a set of primers with prediction of oligonucleotide properties, dimer and G-quadruplex detection, linguistic complexity, and provides a dilution and resuspension calculator.
Human enterovirus 71 that firstly isolated in Qinghai Province and their genetic features of VP1 region]	To study the genetic characterizations of VP1 gene of human enterovirus 71 (HEV71) isolated from clinical specimens of Hand, Foot and Mouth Disease (HFMD) patients in Qinghai Province in 2008.
Btrim: a fast, lightweight adapter and quality trimming program for next-generation sequencing technologies.	Btrim is a fast and lightweight software to trim adapters and low quality regions in reads from ultra high-throughput next-generation sequencing machines. It also can reliably identify barcodes and assign the reads to the original samples. Based on a modified Myers's bit-vector dynamic programming algorithm, Btrim can handle indels in adapters and barcodes. It removes low quality regions and trims off adapters at both or either end of the reads. A typical trimming of 30M reads with two sets of adapter pairs can be done in about a minute with a small memory footprint. Btrim is a versatile stand-alone tool that can be used as the first step in virtually all next-generation sequence analysis pipelines. The program is available at http://graphics.med.yale.edu/trim/.
Rapid identification of Cryptococcus neoformans and Cryptococcus gattii by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry.	Compared to DNA sequence analysis, matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) correctly identified 100% of Cryptococcus species, distinguishing the notable pathogens Cryptococcus neoformans and C. gattii. Identification was greatly enhanced by supplementing a commercial spectral library with additional entries to account for subspecies variability.
CREST maps somatic structural variation in cancer genomes with base-pair resolution.	We developed 'clipping reveals structure' (CREST), an algorithm that uses next-generation sequencing reads with partial alignments to a reference genome to directly map structural variations at the nucleotide level of resolution. Application of CREST to whole-genome sequencing data from five pediatric T-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemias (T-ALLs) and a human melanoma cell line, COLO-829, identified 160 somatic structural variations. Experimental validation exceeded 80%, demonstrating that CREST had a high predictive accuracy.
Implication of next-generation sequencing on association studies.	Next-generation sequencing technologies can effectively detect the entire spectrum of genomic variation and provide a powerful tool for systematic exploration of the universe of common, low frequency and rare variants in the entire genome. However, the current paradigm for genome-wide association studies (GWAS) is to catalogue and genotype common variants (5% < MAF). The methods and study design for testing the association of low frequency (0.5% < MAF  5%) and rare variation (MAF  0.5%) have not been thoroughly investigated. The 1000 Genomes Project represents one such endeavour to characterize the human genetic variation pattern at the MAF = 1% level as a foundation for association studies. In this report, we explore different strategies and study designs for the near future GWAS in the post-era, based on both low coverage pilot data and exon pilot data in 1000 Genomes Project.
Multiple platform assessment of the EGF dependent transcriptome by microarray and deep tag sequencing analysis.	Epidermal Growth Factor (EGF) is a key regulatory growth factor activating many processes relevant to normal development and disease, affecting cell proliferation and survival. Here we use a combined approach to study the EGF dependent transcriptome of HeLa cells by using multiple long oligonucleotide based microarray platforms (from Agilent, Operon, and Illumina) in combination with digital gene expression profiling (DGE) with the Illumina Genome Analyzer.
Analysis of the bacterial community in a laboratory-scale nitrification reactor and a wastewater treatment plant by 454-pyrosequencing.	For full understanding of the microbial community in the wastewater treatment bioreactors, one of the feasible and effective ways is to investigate the massive genetic information contained in the activated sludge. In this study, high-throughput pyrosequencing was applied to analyze the 16S rRNA gene of bacteria in a laboratory-scale nitrification reactor and a full-scale wastewater treatment plant. In total, 27,458 and 26,906 effective sequence reads of the 16S rRNA gene were obtained from the Reactor and the wastewater treatment plant activated sludge samples respectively. The taxonomic complexities in the two samples were compared at phylum and genus levels. According to the pyrosequencing results, even for a laboratory-scale reactor as simple as that in this study, a small size clone library is far from enough to reflect the whole profile of the bacterial community. In addition, it was found that the commonly used informatics tool "RDP classifier" may drastically assign Nitrosomonas sequences into a wrong taxonomic unit resulting in underestimation of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria in the bioreactors. In this paper the reasons for this mistakenly assignment were analyzed and correction methods were proposed.
The importance of Anatolian mountains as the cradle of global diversity in Arabis alpina, a key arctic-alpine species.	Anatolia is a biologically diverse, but phylogeographically under-explored region. It is described as either a centre of origin and long-term Pleistocene refugium, or as a centre for genetic amalgamation, fed from distinct neighbouring refugia. These contrasting hypotheses are tested through a global phylogeographic analysis of the arctic-alpine herb, Arabis alpina.
Evaluation of commercial universal rRNA gene PCR plus sequencing tests for identification of bacteria and fungi associated with infectious endocarditis.	Two new commercially available universal rRNA gene PCR plus sequencing tests, SepsiTest and universal microbe detection (UMD; Molzym, Bremen, Germany), were evaluated using blood specimens and heart valves from 30 patients with suspected infectious endocarditis (IE). The sensitivity of PCR (85%) was nearly twice as high as that of culture (45%), which in 10/20 IE cases presumably stayed negative as a consequence of growth inhibition of the pathogens by antibiotics. Further, PCR provided the basis for reclassification of 5/10 non-IE cases into IE cases. Culture-negative infections were identified by PCR, including single infections due to streptococci and Gram-negative bacteria (Escherichia coli, Haemophilus parainfluenzae) and mixed infections involving two Gram-positive bacteria or Candida spp. with Gram-positive bacteria. The new commercial tests proved to be of value for the rapid diagnosis of IE, particularly in cases of culture-negative infections. Issues regarding the feasibility of these tests for routine use are discussed.
New powerful statistics for alignment-free sequence comparison under a pattern transfer model.	Alignment-free sequence comparison is widely used for comparing gene regulatory regions and for identifying horizontally transferred genes. Recent studies on the power of a widely used alignment-free comparison statistic D2 and its variants D*2 and D(s)2 showed that their power approximates a limit smaller than 1 as the sequence length tends to infinity under a pattern transfer model. We develop new alignment-free statistics based on D2, D*2 and D(s)2 by comparing local sequence pairs and then summing over all the local sequence pairs of certain length. We show that the new statistics are much more powerful than the corresponding statistics and the power tends to 1 as the sequence length tends to infinity under the pattern transfer model.
Robustness of genome-wide scanning using archived dried blood spot samples as a DNA source.	The search to identify disease-susceptible genes requires access to biological material from numerous well-characterized subjects. Archived residual dried blood spot (DBS) samples, also known as Guthrie cards, from national newborn screening programs may provide a DNA source for entire populations. Combined with clinical information from medical registries, DBS samples could provide a rich source for productive research. However, the amounts of DNA which can be extracted from these precious samples are minute and may be prohibitive for numerous genotypings. Previously, we demonstrated that DBS DNA can be whole-genome amplified and used for reliable genetic analysis on different platforms, including genome-wide scanning arrays. However, it remains unclear whether this approach is workable on a large sample scale. We examined the robustness of using DBS samples for whole-genome amplification following genome-wide scanning, using arrays from Illumina and Affymetrix.
Exome-wide DNA capture and next generation sequencing in domestic and wild species.	Gene-targeted and genome-wide markers are crucial to advance evolutionary biology, agriculture, and biodiversity conservation by improving our understanding of genetic processes underlying adaptation and speciation. Unfortunately, for eukaryotic species with large genomes it remains costly to obtain genome sequences and to develop genome resources such as genome-wide SNPs. A method is needed to allow gene-targeted, next-generation sequencing that is flexible enough to include any gene or number of genes, unlike transcriptome sequencing. Such a method would allow sequencing of many individuals, avoiding ascertainment bias in subsequent population genetic analyses.We demonstrate the usefulness of a recent technology, exon capture, for genome-wide, gene-targeted marker discovery in species with no genome resources. We use coding gene sequences from the domestic cow genome sequence (Bos taurus) to capture (enrich for), and subsequently sequence, thousands of exons of B. taurus, B. indicus, and Bison bison (wild bison). Our capture array has probes for 16,131 exons in 2,570 genes, including 203 candidate genes with known function and of interest for their association with disease and other fitness traits.
KRAS mutations detected by the amplification refractory mutation system-Scorpion assays strongly correlate with therapeutic effect of cetuximab.	We aimed to compare the sensitive and quality-controlled KRAS testing with direct sequencing and to assess the impact on decision making of treatment.
A biologist's guide to de novo genome assembly using next-generation sequence data: A test with fungal genomes.	We offer a guide to de novo genome assembly using sequence data generated by the Illumina platform for biologists working with fungi or other organisms whose genomes are less than 100Mb in size. The guide requires no familiarity with sequencing assembly technology or associated computer programs. It defines commonly used terms in genome sequencing and assembly; provides examples of assembling short-read genome sequence data for four strains of the fungus Grosmannia clavigera using four assembly programs; gives examples of protocols and software; and presents a commented flowchart that extends from DNA preparation for submission to a sequencing center, through to processing and assembly of the raw sequence reads using freely available operating systems and software.
Multiple sequence assembly from reads alignable to a common reference genome.	We describe a set of computational problems motivated by certain analysis tasks in genome resequencing. These are assembly problems for which multiple distinct sequences must be assembled, but where the relative positions of reads to be assembled are already known. This information is obtained from a common reference genome and is characteristic of resequencing experiments. The simplest variant of the problem aims at determining a minimum set of superstrings such that each sequenced read matches at least one superstring. We give an algorithm with time complexity O(N), where N is the sum of the lengths of reads, substantially improving on previous algorithms for solving the same problem. We also examine the problem of finding the smallest number of reads to remove such that the remaining reads are consistent with k superstrings. By exploiting a surprising relationship with the minimum cost flow problem, we show that this problem can be solved in polynomial time when nested reads are excluded. If nested reads are permitted, this problem of removing the minimum number of reads becomes NP-hard. We show that permitting mismatches between reads and their nearest superstrings generally renders these problems NP-hard.
Probabilistic models for semisupervised discriminative motif discovery in DNA sequences.	Methods for discriminative motif discovery in DNA sequences identify transcription factor binding sites (TFBSs), searching only for patterns that differentiate two sets (positive and negative sets) of sequences. On one hand, discriminative methods increase the sensitivity and specificity of motif discovery, compared to generative models. On the other hand, generative models can easily exploit unlabeled sequences to better detect functional motifs when labeled training samples are limited. In this paper, we develop a hybrid generative/discriminative model which enables us to make use of unlabeled sequences in the framework of discriminative motif discovery, leading to semisupervised discriminative motif discovery. Numerical experiments on yeast ChIP-chip data for discovering DNA motifs demonstrate that the best performance is obtained between the purely-generative and the purely-discriminative and the semisupervised learning improves the performance when labeled sequences are limited.
Discovering transcription factor binding sites in highly repetitive regions of genomes with multi-read analysis of ChIP-Seq data.	Chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by high-throughput sequencing (ChIP-seq) is rapidly replacing chromatin immunoprecipitation combined with genome-wide tiling array analysis (ChIP-chip) as the preferred approach for mapping transcription-factor binding sites and chromatin modifications. The state of the art for analyzing ChIP-seq data relies on using only reads that map uniquely to a relevant reference genome (uni-reads). This can lead to the omission of up to 30% of alignable reads. We describe a general approach for utilizing reads that map to multiple locations on the reference genome (multi-reads). Our approach is based on allocating multi-reads as fractional counts using a weighted alignment scheme. Using human STAT1 and mouse GATA1 ChIP-seq datasets, we illustrate that incorporation of multi-reads significantly increases sequencing depths, leads to detection of novel peaks that are not otherwise identifiable with uni-reads, and improves detection of peaks in mappable regions. We investigate various genome-wide characteristics of peaks detected only by utilization of multi-reads via computational experiments. Overall, peaks from multi-read analysis have similar characteristics to peaks that are identified by uni-reads except that the majority of them reside in segmental duplications. We further validate a number of GATA1 multi-read only peaks by independent quantitative real-time ChIP analysis and identify novel target genes of GATA1. These computational and experimental results establish that multi-reads can be of critical importance for studying transcription factor binding in highly repetitive regions of genomes with ChIP-seq experiments.
Algebraic distribution of segmental duplication lengths in whole-genome sequence self-alignments.	Distributions of duplicated sequences from genome self-alignment are characterized, including forward and backward alignments in bacteria and eukaryotes. A Markovian process without auto-correlation should generate an exponential distribution expected from local effects of point mutation and selection on localised function; however, the observed distributions show substantial deviation from exponential form--they are roughly algebraic instead--suggesting a novel kind of long-distance correlation that must be non-local in origin.
Rapid differentiation of bacterial species by high resolution melting curve analysis.	Molecular based differentiation of various bacterial species is important in phylogenetic studies, diagnostics and epidemiological surveillance, particularly where unusual phenotype makes the classical phenotypic identification of bacteria difficult. Molecular approach based on the sequence of 16S ribosomal RNA gene analysis can achieve fast and reliable identification ofbacteria. High resolution melting (HRM) curve analysis has been developed as an attractive novel technique for DNA sequence discrimination but it's application for bacteria differentiation has not been well studied yet. W have developed HRM assay for differentiation of sixteen pathogenic or opportunistic bacterial species. Amplified partial 16S ribosomal RNA gene region between 968 and 1401 positions (E. coli reference numbering) was subsequently used in high resolution melting curve analysis of PCR products for bacterial species differentiation. Sixteen bacterial species were simultaneously discerned by difference plot of normalized and temperatures shifted melting curves, without need for spiking of DNA, hetero-duplexing experiments or application of several primer pairs. High resolution melting curve analysis of duplex DNA is simple, fast and reliable tool for bacterial species differentiation and may efficiently complement phenotypic identification ofbacteria.
Comparison between direct sequencing and INNO-LiPA methods for HPV detection and genotyping in Thai Women.	Human papillomaviruses (HPVs) have been recognized as etiologic factors in cervical carcinoma and several other anogenital cancers in females and males. HPV are classified as low risk (LR), probable high risk and high risk (HR) on the basis of their oncogenic potential. HPV genotypes, which are crucial for diagnosis and relationship with carcinogenesis, have been determined by several genotyping methods. In this study, two genotyping methods were compared: direct sequencing and INNO-LiPA. In total, 2,494 cervical specimens were tested and 27.2 % of these were found to be HPV DNA positive with 24.5% showing normal cytology. Specimens were divided into four groups according to their pathological cytology as normal, LSIL, HSIL and cancer and 134 specimens were selected for HPV genotyping by both methods. HPV genotyping results showed 87.5% positive correlation. With 17 specimens, the results were discordant, 12 specimens showed different genotypes. Others had genotypes that could not be typed by the INNO-LiPA method. Neither did direct sequencing in 3 different regions yield unequivocal results. Both genotyping methods have advantages and disadvantages. Consequently, the method most suitable for the study objective, budget and predominance of HPV genotype in any given area should be selected.
Exome sequencing and unrelated findings in the context of complex disease research: ethical and clinical implications.	Exome sequencing has identified the causes of several Mendelian diseases, although it has rarely been used in a clinical setting to diagnose the genetic cause of an idiopathic disorder in a single patient. We performed exome sequencing on a pedigree with several members affected with attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), in an effort to identify candidate variants predisposing to this complex disease. While we did identify some rare variants that might predispose to ADHD, we have not yet proven the causality for any of them. However, over the course of the study, one subject was discovered to have idiopathic hemolytic anemia (IHA), which was suspected to be genetic in origin. Analysis of this subject's exome readily identified two rare non-synonymous mutations in PKLR gene as the most likely cause of the IHA, although these two mutations had not been documented before in a single individual. We further confirmed the deficiency by functional biochemical testing, consistent with a diagnosis of red blood cell pyruvate kinase deficiency. Our study implies that exome and genome sequencing will certainly reveal additional rare variation causative for even well-studied classical Mendelian diseases, while also revealing variants that might play a role in complex diseases. Furthermore, our study has clinical and ethical implications for exome and genome sequencing in a research setting; how to handle unrelated findings of clinical significance, in the context of originally planned complex disease research, remains a largely uncharted area for clinicians and researchers.
Performance of ultra-deep pyrosequencing in analysis of HIV-1 pol gene variation.	Ultra-deep pyrosequencing (UDPS) has been used to detect minority variants within HIV-1 populations. Some aspects of the quality and reproducibility of UDPS have been previously evaluated, but comprehensive studies are still needed.
Prospective genomic characterization of the German enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli O104:H4 outbreak by rapid next generation sequencing technology.	An ongoing outbreak of exceptionally virulent Shiga toxin (Stx)-producing Escherichia coli O104:H4 centered in Germany, has caused over 830 cases of hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) and 46 deaths since May 2011. Serotype O104:H4, which has not been detected in animals, has rarely been associated with HUS in the past. To prospectively elucidate the unique characteristics of this strain in the early stages of this outbreak, we applied whole genome sequencing on the Life Technologies Ion Torrent PGM sequencer and Optical Mapping to characterize one outbreak isolate (LB226692) and a historic O104:H4 HUS isolate from 2001 (01-09591). Reference guided draft assemblies of both strains were completed with the newly introduced PGM within 62 hours. The HUS-associated strains both carried genes typically found in two types of pathogenic E. coli, enteroaggregative E. coli (EAEC) and enterohemorrhagic E. coli (EHEC). Phylogenetic analyses of 1,144 core E. coli genes indicate that the HUS-causing O104:H4 strains and the previously published sequence of the EAEC strain 55989 show a close relationship but are only distantly related to common EHEC serotypes. Though closely related, the outbreak strain differs from the 2001 strain in plasmid content and fimbrial genes. We propose a model in which EAEC 55989 and EHEC O104:H4 strains evolved from a common EHEC O104:H4 progenitor, and suggest that by stepwise gain and loss of chromosomal and plasmid-encoded virulence factors, a highly pathogenic hybrid of EAEC and EHEC emerged as the current outbreak clone. In conclusion, rapid next-generation technologies facilitated prospective whole genome characterization in the early stages of an outbreak.
DNA barcodes for discriminating the medicinal plant Scutellaria baicalensis (Lamiaceae) and its adulterants.	Scutellaria baicalensis GEORGI (Lamiaceae) is the botanical origin of the well-known traditional Chinese medicine "Huang Qin" (Radix Scutellariae). Due to overexploitation that had induced a decline in natural sources, the dried roots of its congeners, S. amoena, S. rehderiana, and S. viscidula, have been used to adulterate it in recent years. This practice may cause a series of inconsistent therapeutic effects and quality control problems in the herbal medicine industry. Hence, we sequenced and analyzed three candidate DNA barcodes, the ribosomal RNA maturase gene (matK), the ribulose-1,4-bisphosphate carboxylase large subunit gene (rbcL), and the psbA-trnH intergenic spacer (psbA-trnH), to discriminate S. baicalensis and its adulterants. All candidate DNA barcodes had been successfully amplified from leaf samples. Comparatively, only psbA-trnH had been yielded from commercially prepared crude drug samples. Based on the sequence divergence, rbcL can assign S. baicalensis and its adulterants into the correct family and genus, whereas, either matK or psbA-trnH can accurately discriminate S. baicalensis and its adulterants. We proposed the multilocus barcodes rbcL+psbA-trnH for the species identification of S. baicalensis and its adulterants, and the unique barcode psbA-trnH for the authentication of commercial Radix Scutellariae. The DNA barcoding technique could be applied to the quality control of "Huang Qin"-based medicinal preparations and to the management of medicinal herb trade in the markets.
Analysis of epigenetic alterations to proprotein convertase genes in disease.	Epigenetic alterations produce heritable changes in phenotype or gene expression without changing DNA sequence. Modified levels of gene expression contribute to a variety of human diseases encompassing genetic disorders, pediatric syndromes, autoimmune disease, aging, and cancer. Alterations in proprotein convertase gene expression are associated with numerous disease states; however, the underlying mechanism for changes in PC gene expression remains understudied. Epigenetic changes in gene expression profiles can be accomplished through modification of chromatin, specifically via chemical modification of DNA bases (methylation of cytosine) or associated histone proteins (acetylation or methylation). In general, active chromatin is associated with low DNA methylation status and histone acetylation, whereas silenced gene are typically in inactive regions of chromatin exhibiting DNA hypermethylation and histone deacetylation. This chapter will provide in-depth protocols to analyze epigenetic alterations in proprotein convertase gene expression using the PCSK6 gene in the context of human ovarian cancer as a model system.
Genetic and functional characterization of PCSK1.	PC1/3 is a neuroendocrine-specific member of the mammalian subtilisin-like proprotein convertase family. This seven-member family is involved in the endoproteolytic cleavage of a large number of precursor proteins including prohormones, proneuropeptides, zymogens, and proreceptors. PC1/3 is synthesized as a zymogen, proPC1/3, and its propeptide is rapidly and autocatalytically cleaved in the endoplasmic reticulum. The mature protein is sorted and stored in dense-core secretory vesicles, together with its substrates. Compound-inactivating mutations in the PCSK1 gene, which encodes PC1/3, cause monogenic obesity. Furthermore, the contribution of two common nonsynonymous variants in PCSK1 to polygenic obesity risk has recently been established. Additional rare variants have been identified in non-consanguineous extremely obese Europeans but functional characterization has not yet been described. Sequencing efforts of larger cohorts of obese patients might reveal more variants conferring risk of obesity.
Prohormone processing in zebrafish.	Proprotein convertases (PCs) are secretory proteolytic enzymes that activate precursor proteins into biologically active forms by limited proteolysis at one or multiple internal sites. PCs are implicated in the processing of multiple protein precursors, including hormones, proteases, growth factors, angiogenic factors, and receptors. PCs have been linked recently to various pathologies such as Alzheimer's disease, tumorigenesis, and infections. The zebrafish has emerged as an attractive model for studying the role of PCs not only in substrate production but also in development. Herein we describe methods that are used to characterize DNA sequences of PCs in zebrafish, as well as to evaluate the ontogeny and tissue distribution of their transcripts. We also provide information on the morpholino-mediated knockdown of proprotein convertases.
High-throughput sequencing of core STR loci for forensic genetic investigations using the Roche Genome Sequencer FLX platform.	The analysis and profiling of short tandem repeat (STR) loci is routinely used in forensic genetics. Current methods to investigate STR loci, including PCR-based standard fragment analyses and capillary electrophoresis, only provide amplicon lengths that are used to estimate the number of STR repeat units. These methods do not allow for the full resolution of STR base composition that sequencing approaches could provide. Here we present an STR profiling method based on the use of the Roche Genome Sequencer (GS) FLX to simultaneously sequence multiple core STR loci. Using this method in combination with a bioinformatic tool designed specifically to analyze sequence lengths and frequencies, we found that GS FLX STR sequence data are comparable to conventional capillary electrophoresis-based STR typing. Furthermore, we found DNA base substitutions and repeat sequence variations that would not have been identified using conventional STR typing.
Massively parallel sequence analysis for revealing causes of neuromuscular disorders]	Molecular genetic studies, positional cloning in particular, contributed to progresses in neurology. However, because of a bottleneck of low sequence analysis throughput, large proportions of small families, especially of late-onset hereditary diseases, still remain to be elucidated. The massively parallel sequencers are expected to identify causative genes in such a small but meaningful families and to reveal pathophysiology of the diseases. Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is a neurodegenerative disorder. Pathophysiology of MSA remains largely uncertain despite many studies. Generally, MSA is a sporadic disorder, but there are rare familial aggregations which would provide a strong clue to understand pathophysiology of MSA. With the backgrounds, we analyzed an MSA family with 2 pathologically proven siblings born with consanguineous parents. Linkage study revealed a candidate 70Mb regions in four chromosomes. We carried out whole-genome resequencing of the proband using Illumina GAIIx. Mean depth was 58X, and a total of 3.5 million single nucleotide variations were found. Although the new technologies are highly powerful, to find a mutation from a number of variations, a challenge with bioinformatics should be overcome. Coping with the problem, the high-throughput sequence technologies will further contribute to a breakthrough in neurology.
Comparative analysis of algorithms for whole-genome assembly of pyrosequencing data.	Next-generation sequencing technologies have fostered an unprecedented proliferation of high-throughput sequencing projects and a concomitant development of novel algorithms for the assembly of short reads. In this context, an important issue is the need of a careful assessment of the accuracy of the assembly process. Here, we review the efficiency of a panel of assemblers, specifically designed to handle data from GS FLX 454 platform, on three bacterial data sets with different characteristics in terms of reads coverage and repeats content. Our aim is to investigate their strengths and weaknesses in the reconstruction of the reference genomes. In our benchmarking, we assess assemblers' performance, quantifying and characterizing assembly gaps and errors, and evaluating their ability to solve complex genomic regions containing repeats. The final goal of this analysis is to highlight pros and cons of each method, in order to provide the final user with general criteria for the right choice of the appropriate assembly strategy, depending on the specific needs. A further aspect we have explored is the relationship between coverage of a sequencing project and quality of the obtained results. The final outcome suggests that, for a good tradeoff between costs and results, the planned genome coverage of an experiment should not exceed 20-30 .
Next-generation sequencing technologies for DNA methylation analyses in cancer genomics.	For the first time, the development of next-generation sequencing technologies has brought about tools to investigate epigenetic alterations in an unbiased, yet genome-wide approach. The importance of this innovative technology is undeniable since it has already been established that changes in DNA methylation play an important role in cancer initiation and progression. The first methylation maps have already been created, and it is only a matter of time until the complete epigenetic maps of healthy and diseased human genomes are available. In this review, we summarize the use of next-generation sequencing for diverse epigenetic technologies, give an overview of the status quo and outline future perspectives for its application in oncology and basic research.
Specific hypomethylated CpGs at the IGF2 locus act as an epigenetic biomarker for familial adenomatous polyposis colorectal cancer.	The identification of specific biomarkers for colorectal cancer is of primary importance for early diagnosis. The aim of this study was to evaluate if methylation changes at the IGF2/H19 locus could be predictive for individuals at high risk for developing sporadic or hereditary colorectal cancer.
The implications of heterogeneous DNA methylation for the accurate quantification of methylation.	DNA methylation based biomarkers have considerable potential for molecular diagnostics, both as tumor specific biomarkers for the early detection or post-therapeutic monitoring of cancer as well as prognostic and predictive biomarkers for therapeutic stratification. Particularly in the former, the accurate estimation of DNA methylation is of compelling importance. However, quantification of DNA methylation has many traps for the unwary, especially when heterogeneous methylation comprising multiple alleles with varied DNA methylation patterns (epialleles) is present. The frequent occurrence of heterogeneous methylation as distinct from a simple mixture of fully methylated and unmethylated alleles is generally not taken into account when DNA methylation is considered as a cancer biomarker. When heterogeneous DNA methylation is present, the proportion of methylated molecules is difficult to quantify without a method that allows the measurement of individual epialleles. In this article, we critically assess the methodologies frequently used to investigate DNA methylation, with an emphasis on the detection and measurement of heterogeneous DNA methylation. The adoption of digital approaches will enable the effective use of heterogeneous DNA methylation as a cancer biomarker.
Epigenetics of prostate cancer and the prospect of identification of novel drug targets by RNAi screening of epigenetic enzymes.	Alterations in epigenetic processes probably underlie most human malignancies. Novel genome-wide techniques, such as chromatin immunoprecipitation and high-throughput sequencing, have become state-of-the-art methods to map the epigenomic landscape of development and disease, such as in cancers. Despite these advances, the functional significance of epigenetic enzymes in cancer progression, such as prostate cancer, remain incompletely understood. A comprehensive mapping and functional understanding of the cancer epigenome will hopefully help to facilitate development of novel cancer therapy targets and improve future diagnostics. The authors have developed a novel cell microarray-based high-content siRNA screening technique suitable to address the putative functional role and impact of all known putative and novel epigenetic enzymes in cancer, including prostate cancer.
Function and detection of 5-methylcytosine in eukaryotic RNA.	Modified nucleosides play an important role in RNA function and have been identified in multiple RNA types, including tRNAs, rRNAs, mRNAs and small regulatory RNAs. Among these, 5-methylcytosine (m(5)C) has been detected in rRNAs and tRNAs, and early reports suggested its presence in mRNAs. Known and well studied as an epigenetic mark in DNA, the prevalence and function of m(5)C in RNA is either incompletely explored (i.e., in tRNA and rRNA) or virtually unknown (i.e., in mRNA and other noncoding RNA). Two eukaryotic methyltransferases have been demonstrated to place m(5)C in RNA; however, their substrate specificity and cellular functions are not completely understood. With the recent development of m(5)C detection in RNA by bisulfite sequencing, comprehensive analyses to determine its occurrence and biological roles are now feasible. In this article we review the occurrence, function and biochemical detection of m(5)C in eukaryotic RNA, and provide perspectives on the biological roles of this modification in the transcriptome.
Application of gene sequencing directly to identify the pathogens in specimens.	Accurate identification of bacterial isolates is an essential task in clinical microbiology. This study compared culturing to analyzing 16S rRNA gene sequences as methods to identify bacteria in clinical samples. We developed a key technique to directly identify bacteria in clinical samples via nucleic acid sequences, thus improving the ability to confirm pathogens.
Pyrosequencing reveals diverse and distinct sponge-specific microbial communities in sponges from a single geographical location in Irish waters.	Marine sponges are host to numerically vast and phylogenetically diverse bacterial communities, with 26 major phyla to date having been found in close association with sponge species worldwide. Analyses of these microbial communities have revealed many sponge-specific novel genera and species. These endosymbiotic microbes are believed to play significant roles in sponge physiology including the production of an array of bioactive secondary metabolites. Here, we report on the use of culture-based and culture-independent (pyrosequencing) techniques to elucidate the bacterial community profiles associated with the marine sponges Raspailia ramosa and Stelligera stuposa sampled from a single geographical location in Irish waters and with ambient seawater. To date, little is known about the microbial ecology of sponges of these genera. Culture isolation grossly underestimated sponge-associated bacterial diversity. Four bacterial phyla (Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes, Proteobacteria) were represented amongst ~200 isolates, compared with ten phyla found using pyrosequencing. Long average read lengths of ~430 bp (V1-V3 region of 16S rRNA gene) allowed for robust resolution of sequences to genus level. Bacterial OTUs (2,109 total), at 95% sequence similarity, from ten bacterial phyla were recovered from R. ramosa, 349 OTUs were identified in S. stuposa representing eight phyla, while 533 OTUs from six phyla were found in surrounding seawater. Bacterial communities differed significantly between sponge species and the seawater. Analysis of the data for sponge-specific taxa revealed that 2.8% of classified reads from the sponge R. ramosa can be defined as sponge-specific, while 26% of S. stuposa sequences represent sponge-specific bacteria. Novel sponge-specific clusters were identified, whereas the majority of previously reported sponge-specific clusters (e.g. Poribacteria) were absent from these sponge species. This deep and robust analysis provides further evidence that the microbial communities associated with marine sponge species are highly diverse and divergent from one another and appear to be host-selected through as yet unknown processes.
Next-generation sequencing approaches for genetic mapping of complex diseases.	The advent of next generation sequencing technologies has opened new possibilities in the analysis of human disease. In this review we present the main next-generation sequencing technologies, with their major contributions and possible applications to the study of the genetic etiology of complex diseases.
Summarizing and correcting the GC content bias in high-throughput sequencing.	GC content bias describes the dependence between fragment count (read coverage) and GC content found in Illumina sequencing data. This bias can dominate the signal of interest for analyses that focus on measuring fragment abundance within a genome, such as copy number estimation (DNA-seq). The bias is not consistent between samples; and there is no consensus as to the best methods to remove it in a single sample. We analyze regularities in the GC bias patterns, and find a compact description for this unimodal curve family. It is the GC content of the full DNA fragment, not only the sequenced read, that most influences fragment count. This GC effect is unimodal: both GC-rich fragments and AT-rich fragments are underrepresented in the sequencing results. This empirical evidence strengthens the hypothesis that PCR is the most important cause of the GC bias. We propose a model that produces predictions at the base pair level, allowing strand-specific GC-effect correction regardless of the downstream smoothing or binning. These GC modeling considerations can inform other high-throughput sequencing analyses such as ChIP-seq and RNA-seq.
Evaluation of the GenoType MTBDRplus assay and identification of a rare mutation for improving MDR-TB detection.	To assess the new GenoType MTBDRplus assay for the rapid detection of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) in comparison with DNA sequencing to identify drug resistance mutation profiles in China.
A laboratory information management system for DNA barcoding workflows.	This paper presents a laboratory information management system for DNA sequences (LIMS) created and based on the needs of a DNA barcoding project at the CBS-KNAW Fungal Biodiversity Centre (Utrecht, the Netherlands). DNA barcoding is a global initiative for species identification through simple DNA sequence markers. We aim at generating barcode data for all strains (or specimens) included in the collection (currently ca. 80 k). The LIMS has been developed to better manage large amounts of sequence data and to keep track of the whole experimental procedure. The system has allowed us to classify strains more efficiently as the quality of sequence data has improved, and as a result, up-to-date taxonomic names have been given to strains and more accurate correlation analyses have been carried out.
Advances in genetics show the need for extending screening strategies for autosomal dominant hypercholesterolaemia.	Aims Autosomal dominant hypercholesterolaemia (ADH) is a major risk factor for coronary artery disease. This disorder is caused by mutations in the genes coding for the low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR), apolipoprotein B (APOB), and proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin 9 (PCSK9). However, in 41% of the cases, we cannot find mutations in these genes. In this study, new genetic approaches were used for the identification and validation of new variants that cause ADH.  Methods and results Using exome sequencing, we unexpectedly identified a novel APOB mutation, p.R3059C, in a small-sized ADH family. Since this mutation was located outside the regularly screened APOB region, we extended our routine sequencing strategy and identified another novel APOB mutation (p.K3394N) in a second family. In vitro analyses show that both mutations attenuate binding to the LDLR significantly. Despite this, both mutations were not always associated with ADH in both families, which prompted us to validate causality through using a novel genetic approach.  Conclusion This study shows that advances in genetics help increasing our understanding of the causes of ADH. We identified two novel functional APOB mutations located outside the routinely analysed APOB region, suggesting that screening for mutations causing ADH should encompass the entire APOB coding sequence involved in LDL binding to help identifying and treating patients at increased cardiovascular risk.
Retrotransposons as a major source of epigenetic variations in the mammalian genome.	Transcription of retrotransposons is usually repressed by DNA methylation, but a few elements, such as intracisternal A-particles (IAPs) associated with the Agouti and Axin-fused loci, partially escape this repression mechanism. The levels of this repression are also variable among individuals with an identical genome sequence, generating epigenetically different states of loci or 'epialleles.' In the current study, we tested the existence of additional retrotransposon-derived epialleles in the mouse genome. Using a series of bioinformatic approaches, 143 candidate epialleles were first identified from the mouse genome based on their promoter activity and association with active histone modification marks. Detailed analyses suggest that a subset of these elements showed variable levels of DNA methylation among the individual mice of an isogenic background, revealing their stochastic nature (metastability) of DNA methylation. The analyses also identified two opposite patterns of DNA methylation during development, progressive gaining vs. losing, confirming the dynamic nature of their DNA methylation patterns. qRT-PCR analyses demonstrated that the expression levels of these elements are indeed variable among the individual mice, suggesting functional consequences on their associated endogenous genes. Overall, these data confirm the presence of a number of new retrotransposon-derived epialleles with suggestions of the presence of more, and further identify retrotransposons as a major source of epigenetic variations in the mammalian genome.
Genome-wide DNA methylation studies suggest distinct DNA methylation patterns in pediatric embryonal and alveolar rhabdomyosarcomas.	Rhabdomyosarcoma is the most common soft-tissue sarcoma in children. While cytogenetic abnormalities have been well characterized in this disease, aberrant epigenetic events such as DNA hypermethylation have not been described in genome-wide studies. We have analyzed the methylation status of 25,500 promoters in normal skeletal muscle, and in cell lines and tumor samples of embryonal and alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma from pediatric patients. We identified over 1,900 CpG islands that are hypermethylated in rhabdomyosarcomas relative to skeletal muscle. Genes involved in tissue development, differentiation, and oncogenesis such as DNAJA4, HES5, IRX1, BMP8A, GATA4, GATA6, ALX3, and P4HTM were hypermethylated in both RMS cell lines and primary samples, implicating aberrant DNA methylation in the pathogenesis of rhabdomyosarcoma. Furthermore, cluster analysis revealed embryonal and alveolar subtypes had distinct DNA methylation patterns, with the alveolar subtype being enriched in DNA hypermethylation of polycomb target genes. These results suggest that DNA methylation signatures may aid in the diagnosis and risk stratification of pediatric rhabdomyosarcoma and help identify new targets for therapy.
Analysis of high-depth sequence data for studying viral diversity: a comparison of next generation sequencing platforms using Segminator II.	Next generation sequencing provides detailed insight into the variation present within viral populations, introducing the possibility of treatment strategies that are both reactive and predictive. Current software tools, however, need to be scaled up to accommodate for high-depth viral data sets, which are often temporally or spatially linked. In addition, due to the development of novel sequencing platforms and chemistries, each with implicit strengths and weaknesses, it will be helpful for researchers to be able to routinely compare and combine data sets from different platforms/chemistries. In particular, error associated with a specific sequencing process must be quantified so that true biological variation may be identified.
Mapsembler, targeted and micro assembly of large NGS datasets on a desktop computer.	The analysis of next-generation sequencing data from large genomes is a timely research topic. Sequencers are producing billions of short sequence fragments from newly sequenced organisms. Computational methods for reconstructing whole genomes/transcriptomes (de novo assemblers) are typically employed to process such data. However, these methods require large memory resources and computation time. Many basic biological questions could be answered targeting specific information in the reads, thus avoiding complete assembly.
Molecular and morphological identification of larval opecoelids (Digenea: Opecoelidae) parasitising prosobranch snails in a Western Mediterranean lagoon.	In a study of the digeneans parasitising molluscs in the Els Alfacs lagoon (Ebro Delta, Western Mediterranean) we found heavy infections with sporocysts emitting two types of cotylocercous cercariae in the prosobranch trochid gastropod Gibbula adansonii and with metacercariae in the prosobranch nassariid gastropod Cyclope neritea. A comparative analysis using ITS ribosomal DNA sequences from these larval stages and published sequences of 17 larval and adult opecoelid stages allowed us to elucidate the life-cycle of Macvicaria obovata and to confirm the identification of Cainocreadium labracis based on cercarial morphology. We provide molecular evidence for the identification and the first detailed morphological descriptions of the intramolluscan larval stages of the two opecoelid species as well as partial 28S rDNA sequences to aid future studies on systematic relationships within the Opecoelidae.
The complete mitogenome of Cylindrus obtusus (Helicidae, Ariantinae) using Illumina next generation sequencing.	This study describes how the complete mitogenome of a terrestrial snail, Cylindrus obtusus (Draparnaud, 1805) was sequenced without PCRs from a collection specimen that had been in 70% ethanol for 8 years. The mitogenome was obtained with Illumina GAIIx shot gun sequencing. Although the used specimen was collected relatively recently and kept in a DNA-friendly preservative (not formalin as frequently used with old museum specimens), we believe that the exclusion of PCRs as facilitated by NGS (Next Generation Sequencing) removes a great obstacle in DNA sequencing of collection specimens. A brief comparison is made between our Illumina GAIIx approach and a similar study that made use of the Roche 454-FLX platform.
Clinical, genetic, and immunohistochemical characterization of 70 Ukrainian adult cases with post-Chornobyl papillary thyroid carcinoma.	Increased incidence of papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) is observed as a consequence of radiation exposure in connection to the Chornobyl nuclear plant accident in 1986. In this study, we report a cohort of adult Ukrainian patients diagnosed with PTC from 2004 to 2008 following exposure at the age of 18 years or younger.
Mutations in the tail domain of DYNC1H1 cause dominant spinal muscular atrophy.	To identify the gene responsible for 14q32-linked dominant spinal muscular atrophy with lower extremity predominance (SMA-LED, OMIM 158600).
Sequential ChIP-bisulfite sequencing enables direct genome-scale investigation of chromatin and DNA methylation cross-talk.	Cross-talk between DNA methylation and histone modifications drives the establishment of composite epigenetic signatures and is traditionally studied using correlative rather than direct approaches. Here, we present sequential ChIP-bisulfite-sequencing (ChIP-BS-seq) as an approach to quantitatively assess DNA methylation patterns associated with chromatin modifications or chromatin-associated factors directly. A chromatin-immunoprecipitation (ChIP)-capturing step is used to obtain a restricted representation of the genome occupied by the epigenetic feature of interest, for which a single-base resolution DNA methylation map is then generated. When applied to H3 lysine 27 trimethylation (H3K27me3), we found that H3K27me3 and DNA methylation are compatible throughout most of the genome, except for CpG islands, where these two marks are mutually exclusive. Further ChIP-BS-seq-based analysis in Dnmt triple-knockout (TKO) embryonic stem cells revealed that total loss of CpG methylation is associated with alteration of H3K27me3 levels throughout the genome: H3K27me3 in localized peaks is decreased while broad local enrichments (BLOCs) of H3K27me3 are formed. At an even broader scale, these BLOCs correspond to regions of high DNA methylation in wild-type ES cells, suggesting that DNA methylation prevents H3K27me3 deposition locally and at a megabase scale. Our strategy provides a unique way of investigating global interdependencies between DNA methylation and other chromatin features.
Ultra-low-input, tagmentation-based whole-genome bisulfite sequencing.	We have adapted transposase-based in vitro shotgun library construction ("tagmentation") for whole-genome bisulfite sequencing. This method, Tn5mC-seq, enables a >100-fold reduction in starting material relative to conventional protocols, such that we generate highly complex bisulfite sequencing libraries from as little as 10 ng of input DNA, and ample useful sequences from 1 ng of input DNA. We demonstrate Tn5mC-seq by sequencing the methylome of a human lymphoblastoid cell line to 8.6 high-quality coverage of each strand.
GRASS: a generic algorithm for scaffolding next-generation sequencing assemblies.	The increasing availability of second-generation high-throughput sequencing (HTS) technologies has sparked a growing interest in de novo genome sequencing. This in turn has fueled the need for reliable means of obtaining high-quality draft genomes from short-read sequencing data. The millions of reads usually involved in HTS experiments are first assembled into longer fragments called contigs, which are then scaffolded, i.e. ordered and oriented using additional information, to produce even longer sequences called scaffolds. Most existing scaffolders of HTS genome assemblies are not suited for using information other than paired reads to perform scaffolding. They use this limited information to construct scaffolds, often preferring scaffold length over accuracy, when faced with the tradeoff.
A de novo metagenomic assembly program for shotgun DNA reads.	A high-quality assembly of reads generated from shotgun sequencing is a substantial step in metagenome projects. Although traditional assemblers have been employed in initial analysis of metagenomes, they cannot surmount the challenges created by the features of metagenomic data.
ape 3.0: New tools for distance-based phylogenetics and evolutionary analysis in R.	Reflecting its continuously increasing versatility and functionality, the popularity of the ape (analysis of phylogenetics and evolution) software package has grown steadily over the years. Among its features, it has a strong distance-based component allowing the user to compute distances from aligned DNA sequences based on most methods from the literature and also build phylogenetic trees from them. However, even data generated with modern genomic approaches can fail to give rise to sufficiently reliable distance estimates. One way to overcome this problem is to exclude such estimates from data analysis giving rise to an incomplete distance data set (as opposed to a complete one). So far their analysis has been out of reach for ape. To remedy this, we have incorporated into ape several methods from the literature for phylogenetic inference from incomplete distance matrices. In addition, we have also extended ape's repertoire for phylogenetic inference from complete distances, added a new object class to efficiently encode sets of splits of taxa, and extended the functionality of some of its existing functions.
IDBA-UD: a de novo assembler for single-cell and metagenomic sequencing data with highly uneven depth.	Next-generation sequencing allows us to sequence reads from a microbial environment using single-cell sequencing or metagenomic sequencing technologies. However, both technologies suffer from the problem that sequencing depth of different regions of a genome or genomes from different species are highly uneven. Most existing genome assemblers usually have an assumption that sequencing depths are even. These assemblers fail to construct correct long contigs.
Mapping reads on a genomic sequence: an algorithmic overview and a practical comparative analysis.	Mapping short reads against a reference genome is classically the first step of many next-generation sequencing data analyses, and it should be as accurate as possible. Because of the large number of reads to handle, numerous sophisticated algorithms have been developped in the last 3 years to tackle this problem. In this article, we first review the underlying algorithms used in most of the existing mapping tools, and then we compare the performance of nine of these tools on a well controled benchmark built for this purpose. We built a set of reads that exist in single or multiple copies in a reference genome and for which there is no mismatch, and a set of reads with three mismatches. We considered as reference genome both the human genome and a concatenation of all complete bacterial genomes. On each dataset, we quantified the capacity of the different tools to retrieve all the occurrences of the reads in the reference genome. Special attention was paid to reads uniquely reported and to reads with multiple hits.
A comparative study of cell-free apoptotic and genomic DNA using FISH and massive parallel sequencing.	Study of circulating DNA (cirDNA) generation mechanisms with respect to their influence on the content of cirDNA is very important since it could indicate the best molecular targets for diagnostic applications. Since apoptosis was shown to be one of the main sources of cirDNA, we performed in vitro comparative study of cell-free apoptotic and genomic DNA (gDNA).
pIRS: Profile-based Illumina pair-end reads simulator.	The next-generation high-throughput sequencing technologies, especially from Illumina, have been widely used in re-sequencing and de novo assembly studies. However, there is no existing software that can simulate Illumina reads with real error and quality distributions and coverage bias yet, which is very useful in relevant software development and study designing of sequencing projects.
Next-generation sequencing offers new insights into DNA degradation.	The processes underlying DNA degradation are central to various disciplines, including cancer research, forensics and archaeology. The sequencing of ancient DNA molecules on next-generation sequencing platforms provides direct measurements of cytosine deamination, depurination and fragmentation rates that previously were obtained only from extrapolations of results from in vitro kinetic experiments performed over short timescales. For example, recent next-generation sequencing of ancient DNA reveals purine bases as one of the main targets of postmortem hydrolytic damage, through base elimination and strand breakage. It also shows substantially increased rates of DNA base-loss at guanosine. In this review, we argue that the latter results from an electron resonance structure unique to guanosine rather than adenosine having an extra resonance structure over guanosine as previously suggested.
Comprehensive assessment of potential multiple myeloma immunoglobulin heavy chain V-D-J intraclonal variation using massively parallel pyrosequencing.	Multiple myeloma (MM) is characterized by the accumulation of malignant plasma cells (PCs) in the bone marrow (BM). MM is viewed as a clonal disorder due to lack of verified intraclonal sequence diversity in the immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region gene (IGHV). However, this conclusion is based on analysis of a very limited number of IGHV subclones and the methodology employed did not permit simultaneous analysis of the IGHV repertoire of non-malignant PCs in the same samples. Here we generated genomic DNA and cDNA libraries from purified MM BMPCs and performed massively parallel pyrosequencing to determine the frequency of cells expressing identical IGHV sequences. This method provided an unprecedented opportunity to interrogate the presence of clonally related MM cells and evaluate the IGHV repertoire of non-MM PCs. Within the MM sample, 37 IGHV genes were expressed, with 98.9% of all immunoglobulin sequences using the same IGHV gene as the MM clone and 83.0% exhibiting exact nucleotide sequence identity in the IGHV and heavy chain complementarity determining region 3 (HCDR3). Of interest, we observed in both genomic DNA and cDNA libraries 48 sets of identical sequences with single point mutations in the MM clonal IGHV or HCDR3 regions. These nucleotide changes were suggestive of putative subclones and therefore were subjected to detailed analysis to interpret: 1) their legitimacy as true subclones; and 2) their significance in the context of MM. Finally, we report for the first time the IGHV repertoire of normal human BMPCs and our data demonstrate the extent of IGHV repertoire diversity as well as the frequency of clonally-related normal BMPCs. This study demonstrates the power and potential weaknesses of in-depth sequencing as a tool to thoroughly investigate the phylogeny of malignant PCs in MM and the IGHV repertoire of normal BMPCs.
Accurate extension of multiple sequence alignments using a phylogeny-aware graph algorithm.	Accurate alignment of large numbers of sequences is demanding and the computational burden is further increased by downstream analyses depending on these alignments. With the abundance of sequence data, an integrative approach of adding new sequences to existing alignments without their full re-computation and maintaining the relative matching of existing sequences is an attractive option. Another current challenge is the extension of reference alignments with fragmented sequences, as those coming from next-generation metagenomics, that contain relatively little information. Widely used methods for alignment extension are based on profile representation of reference sequences. These do not incorporate and use phylogenetic information and are affected by the composition of the reference alignment and the phylogenetic positions of query sequences.
A generalized linear model for peak calling in ChIP-Seq data.	Chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by massively parallel sequencing (ChIP-Seq) has become a routine for detecting genome-wide protein-DNA interaction. The success of ChIP-Seq data analysis highly depends on the quality of peak calling (i.e., to detect peaks of tag counts at a genomic location and evaluate if the peak corresponds to a real protein-DNA interaction event). The challenges in peak calling include (1) how to combine the forward and the reverse strand tag data to improve the power of peak calling and (2) how to account for the variation of tag data observed across different genomic locations. We introduce a new peak calling method based on the generalized linear model (GLMNB) that utilizes negative binomial distribution to model the tag count data and account for the variation of background tags that may randomly bind to the DNA sequence at varying levels due to local genomic structures and sequence contents. We allow local shifting of peaks observed on the forward and the reverse stands, such that at each potential binding site, a binding profile representing the pattern of a real peak signal is fitted to best explain the observed tag data with maximum likelihood. Our method can also detect multiple peaks within a local region if there are multiple binding sites in the region.
Genome sequencing and cancer.	New technologies for DNA sequencing, coupled with advanced analytical approaches, are now providing unprecedented speed and precision in decoding human genomes. This combination of technology and analysis, when applied to the study of cancer genomes, is revealing specific and novel information about the fundamental genetic mechanisms that underlie cancer's development and progression. This review outlines the history of the past several years of development in this realm, and discusses the current and future applications that will further elucidate cancer's genomic causes.
Mining new crystal protein genes from Bacillus thuringiensis on the basis of mixed plasmid-enriched genome sequencing and a computational pipeline.	We have designed a high-throughput system for the identification of novel crystal protein genes (cry) from Bacillus thuringiensis strains. The system was developed with two goals: (i) to acquire the mixed plasmid-enriched genomic sequence of B. thuringiensis using next-generation sequencing biotechnology, and (ii) to identify cry genes with a computational pipeline (using BtToxin_scanner). In our pipeline method, we employed three different kinds of well-developed prediction methods, BLAST, hidden Markov model (HMM), and support vector machine (SVM), to predict the presence of Cry toxin genes. The pipeline proved to be fast (average speed, 1.02 Mb/min for proteins and open reading frames [ORFs] and 1.80 Mb/min for nucleotide sequences), sensitive (it detected 40% more protein toxin genes than a keyword extraction method using genomic sequences downloaded from GenBank), and highly specific. Twenty-one strains from our laboratory's collection were selected based on their plasmid pattern and/or crystal morphology. The plasmid-enriched genomic DNA was extracted from these strains and mixed for Illumina sequencing. The sequencing data were de novo assembled, and a total of 113 candidate cry sequences were identified using the computational pipeline. Twenty-seven candidate sequences were selected on the basis of their low level of sequence identity to known cry genes, and eight full-length genes were obtained with PCR. Finally, three new cry-type genes (primary ranks) and five cry holotypes, which were designated cry8Ac1, cry7Ha1, cry21Ca1, cry32Fa1, and cry21Da1 by the B. thuringiensis Toxin Nomenclature Committee, were identified. The system described here is both efficient and cost-effective and can greatly accelerate the discovery of novel cry genes.
The elusive short gene--an ensemble method for recognition for prokaryotic genome.	Accurate prediction of short protein coding DNA from genome sequence information remains an unsolved problem in DNA sequence analysis. Popular gene finding tools show drastic reduction in accuracy while attempting to predict genes of length less than 400 nt, a length we define as short. This study performs a quantitative evaluation of a set of selected coding measures in terms of their discriminative power in recognizing short genes in prokaryotic genomes. By performing Fast Correlation Based Feature Selection (FCBF) technique, we identified a subset of coding measures with high discriminative power. Using the measures identified thus, we present a novel approach for short genes recognition. A short-gene predictor employing AdaBoost.M1 in conjunction with random forests as the base classifier gives 92.74% accuracy, 94.77% sensitivity and 90.06% specificity on short genes.
SEQCHIP: a powerful method to integrate sequence and genotype data for the detection of rare variant associations.	Next-generation sequencing greatly increases the capacity to detect rare-variant complex-trait associations. However, it is still expensive to sequence a large number of samples and therefore often small datasets are used. Given cost constraints, a potentially more powerful two-step strategy is to sequence a subset of the sample to discover variants, and genotype the identified variants in the remaining sample. If only cases are sequenced, directly combining sequence and genotype data will lead to inflated type-I errors in rare-variant association analysis. Although several methods have been developed to correct for the bias, they are either underpowered or theoretically invalid. We proposed a new method SEQCHIP to integrate genotype and sequence data, which can be used with most existing rare-variant tests.
Readjoiner: a fast and memory efficient string graph-based sequence assembler.	Ongoing improvements in throughput of the next-generation sequencing technologies challenge the current generation of de novo sequence assemblers. Most recent sequence assemblers are based on the construction of a de Bruijn graph. An alternative framework of growing interest is the assembly string graph, not necessitating a division of the reads into k-mers, but requiring fast algorithms for the computation of suffix-prefix matches among all pairs of reads.
A self-ligation method for PCR-sequencing the telomeres of Streptomyces and Mycobacterium linear replicons.	Actinomycete species from many genera often harbor linear plasmids and some contain linear chromosomes. A self-ligation and PCR-sequencing method was developed for identifying three novel telomere sequences of linear plasmids of Streptomyces and Mycobacterium. This and four previously described methods for actinomycetes telomere cloning and sequencing are discussed.
Banana-associated microbial communities in Uganda are highly diverse but dominated by Enterobacteriaceae.	Bananas are among the most widely consumed foods in the world. In Uganda, the country with the second largest banana production in the world, bananas are the most important staple food. The objective of this study was to analyze banana-associated microorganisms and to select efficient antagonists against fungal pathogens which are responsible for substantial yield losses. We studied the structure and function of microbial communities (endosphere, rhizosphere, and soil) obtained from three different traditional farms in Uganda by cultivation-independent (PCR-SSCP fingerprints of 16S rRNA/ITS genes, pyrosequencing of enterobacterial 16S rRNA gene fragments, quantitative PCR, fluorescence in situ hybridization coupled with confocal laser scanning microscopy, and PCR-based detection of broad-host-range plasmids and sulfonamide resistance genes) and cultivation-dependent methods. The results showed microhabitat-specific microbial communities that were significant across sites and treatments. Furthermore, all microhabitats contained a high number and broad spectrum of indigenous antagonists toward identified fungal pathogens. While bacterial antagonists were found to be enriched in banana plants, fungal antagonists were less abundant and mainly found in soil. The banana stem endosphere was the habitat with the highest bacterial counts (up to 10(9) gene copy numbers g(-1)). Here, enterics were found to be enhanced in abundance and diversity; they provided one-third of the bacteria and were identified by pyrosequencing with 14 genera, including not only potential human (Escherichia, Klebsiella, Salmonella, and Yersinia spp.) and plant (Pectobacterium spp.) pathogens but also disease-suppressive bacteria (Serratia spp.). The dominant role of enterics can be explained by the permanent nature and vegetative propagation of banana and the amendments of human, as well as animal, manure in these traditional cultivations.
BRAT-BW: efficient and accurate mapping of bisulfite-treated reads.	We introduce BRAT-BW, a fast, accurate and memory-efficient tool that maps bisulfite-treated short reads (BS-seq) to a reference genome using the FM-index (Burrows-Wheeler transform). BRAT-BW is significantly more memory efficient and faster on longer reads than current state-of-the-art tools for BS-seq data, without compromising on accuracy. BRAT-BW is a part of a software suite for genome-wide single base-resolution methylation data analysis that supports single and paired-end reads and includes a tool for estimation of methylation level at each cytosine.
OnlineCall: fast online parameter estimation and base calling for illumina's next-generation sequencing.	Next-generation DNA sequencing platforms are becoming increasingly cost-effective and capable of providing enormous number of reads in a relatively short time. However, their accuracy and read lengths are still lagging behind those of conventional Sanger sequencing method. Performance of next-generation sequencing platforms is fundamentally limited by various imperfections in the sequencing-by-synthesis and signal acquisition processes. This drives the search for accurate, scalable and computationally tractable base calling algorithms capable of accounting for such imperfections.
Noninvasive prenatal detection of chromosomal aneuploidies using different next generation sequencing strategies and algorithms.	Here we describe the successful application of massively parallel sequencing for noninvasive prenatal detection of trisomy 21. In addition, for the detection of a broader spectrum of fetal aneuploidies, a target enrichment approach was successfully tested.
A novel method for multiplex genotyping in a single reactor using GTPlex-PyroSeq: genotyping HPV as a prototype.	Herein, we describe a novel multiplex genotyping method, GTPlex-PyroSeq. This method consists of two phases: multiplex PCR followed by a single reaction of pyrosequencing. This study demonstrates how GTPlex-PyroSeq can be adapted for the determination of multiple human papillomavirus (HPV) genotypes. A biotinylated consensus primer, GP6+, and 15 high-risk HPV type-specific primers are used for multiplex PCR. Each type-specific primer has a 5'-tag unique ID sequence connected to a pyrosequencing primer binding region. The unique ID sequence is composed of three parts: i) a single nucleotide ID representing a specific genotype; ii) a sign post; and iii) an end mark. This design allows multiple genotype determination under an ID sequence-dependent nucleotide dispensation order during pyrosequencing. Following initial studies using HPV plasmids and cell lines, we evaluated the clinical utility and effectiveness by comparing our assay with direct sequencing and HPV DNA chip analysis of 80 samples from high-risk, HPV-positive patients. We found in single-type infections, 100% concordance with direct sequencing (70 of 80 perfect matches) and 97.5% concordance with HPV DNA chip data (50 of 80 perfect matches). Additionally, our system was superior to direct sequencing in detection of multiple infections (12 of 80), with a limit of detection of 100 copies. The scalability of this multiplex system, with its open-platform design and ability to use various sample types, makes the GTPlex applicable for use in multiple settings.
Going beyond five bases in DNA sequencing.	DNA sequencing has provided a wealth of information about biological systems, but thus far has focused on the four canonical bases, and 5-methylcytosine through comparison of the genomic DNA sequence to a transformed four-base sequence obtained after treatment with bisulfite. However, numerous other chemical modifications to the nucleotides are known to control fundamental life functions, influence virulence of pathogens, and are associated with many diseases. These modifications cannot be accessed with traditional sequencing methods. In this opinion, we highlight several emerging single-molecule sequencing techniques that have the potential to directly detect many types of DNA modifications as an integral part of the sequencing protocol.
Evaluation of nucleic acid sequencing of the D1/D2 region of the large subunit of the 28S rDNA and the internal transcribed spacer region using SmartGene IDNS [corrected] software for identification of filamentous fungi in a clinical laboratory.	Filamentous fungal infections have recently increased because of the increasing numbers of immunocompromised hosts. In this study, we evaluated DNA sequencing of the D1/D2 region of the large subunit of the 28S ribosomal RNA gene and the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region using SmartGene (SG; SmartGene Inc., Raleigh, NC) for the identification of a broad range of commonly encountered filamentous fungi. The SG proofreaders were used to upload, align, and edit fragments, and the resultant sequences were interpreted using the quality-controlled SG database. The results were compared with reference identifications using conventional phenotypic methods or ITS DNA sequences obtained from GenBank if phenotypic identifications were inconclusive. A total of 146 clinical isolates were included in this study, representing 49 different genera. The overall agreements of the D1/D2 and the ITS sequencing methods to reference identification were 97.2% (95% CI, 93.1% to 98.9%) and 97.7% (95% CI, 92.8% to 99.4%), respectively. Of the 146 isolates, 18 (12.3%) did not amplify using the ITS universal primers after repeated attempts and, therefore, could not be sequenced using this target. Correct identification was achieved for 100% (95% CI, 97.4% to 100%) of the isolates when applying both the D1/D2 and ITS targets. In summary, DNA sequencing using SG software provides a rapid, accurate, and reliable tool for the identification of filamentous fungi in a clinical laboratory.
Fast and sensitive mapping of bisulfite-treated sequencing data.	Cytosine DNA methylation is one of the major epigenetic modifications and influences gene expression, developmental processes, X-chromosome inactivation, and genomic imprinting. Aberrant methylation is furthermore known to be associated with several diseases including cancer. The gold standard to determine DNA methylation on genome-wide scales is 'bisulfite sequencing': DNA fragments are treated with sodium bisulfite resulting in the conversion of unmethylated cytosines into uracils, whereas methylated cytosines remain unchanged. The resulting sequencing reads thus exhibit asymmetric bisulfite-related mismatches and suffer from an effective reduction of the alphabet size in the unmethylated regions, rendering the mapping of bisulfite sequencing reads computationally much more demanding. As a consequence, currently available read mapping software often fails to achieve high sensitivity and in many cases requires unrealistic computational resources to cope with large real-life datasets.
Experimental incubations elicit profound changes in community transcription in OMZ bacterioplankton.	Sequencing of microbial community RNA (metatranscriptome) is a useful approach for assessing gene expression in microorganisms from the natural environment. This method has revealed transcriptional patterns in situ, but can also be used to detect transcriptional cascades in microcosms following experimental perturbation. Unambiguously identifying differential transcription between control and experimental treatments requires constraining effects that are simply due to sampling and bottle enclosure. These effects remain largely uncharacterized for "challenging" microbial samples, such as those from anoxic regions that require special handling to maintain in situ conditions. Here, we demonstrate substantial changes in microbial transcription induced by sample collection and incubation in experimental bioreactors. Microbial communities were sampled from the water column of a marine oxygen minimum zone by a pump system that introduced minimal oxygen contamination and subsequently incubated in bioreactors under near in situ oxygen and temperature conditions. Relative to the source water, experimental samples became dominated by transcripts suggestive of cell stress, including chaperone, protease, and RNA degradation genes from diverse taxa, with strong representation from SAR11-like alphaproteobacteria. In tandem, transcripts matching facultative anaerobic gammaproteobacteria of the Alteromonadales (e.g., Colwellia) increased 4-13 fold up to 43% of coding transcripts, and encoded a diverse gene set suggestive of protein synthesis and cell growth. We interpret these patterns as taxon-specific responses to combined environmental changes in the bioreactors, including shifts in substrate or oxygen availability, and minor temperature and pressure changes during sampling with the pump system. Whether such changes confound analysis of transcriptional patterns may vary based on the design of the experiment, the taxonomic composition of the source community, and on the metabolic linkages between community members. These data highlight the impressive capacity for transcriptional changes within complex microbial communities, underscoring the need for caution when inferring in situ metabolism based on transcript abundances in experimental incubations.
Personalized pathway enrichment map of putative cancer genes from next generation sequencing data.	Pathway analysis of a set of genes represents an important area in large-scale omic data analysis. However, the application of traditional pathway enrichment methods to next-generation sequencing (NGS) data is prone to several potential biases, including genomic/genetic factors (e.g., the particular disease and gene length) and environmental factors (e.g., personal life-style and frequency and dosage of exposure to mutagens). Therefore, novel methods are urgently needed for these new data types, especially for individual-specific genome data.
Alignment-free sequence comparison for biologically realistic sequences of moderate length.	The D(2) statistic, defined as the number of matches of words of some pre-specified length k, is a computationally fast alignment-free measure of biological sequence similarity. However there is some debate about its suitability for this purpose as the variability in D(2) may be dominated by the terms that reflect the noise in each of the single sequences only. We examine the extent of the problem and the effectiveness of overcoming it by using two mean-centred variants of this statistic, D(2)* and D(2c). We conclude that all three statistics are potentially useful measures of sequence similarity, for which reasonably accurate p-values can be estimated under a null hypothesis of sequences composed of identically and independently distributed letters. We show that D(2) and D(2)c, and to a somewhat lesser extent D(2)*, perform well in tests to classify moderate length query sequences as putative cis-regulatory modules.
Whole genome sequencing: a qualitative leap forward in genetic studies]	At the present time the so-called parallel or next generation sequencing (NGS) technique is rapidly expanding and developing; this process establishes a jump by several orders of magnitude in the length of the fragments sequenced and the speed with which this sequencing is carried out. NGS allows a whole human genome to be sequenced in the same amount of time and with the same economic cost required to sequence two or three large genes using the Sanger technique. Use of NGS allows us to go from examining specific genes selected by studying the phenotype to exploring whole genomes of groups of humans or other species. This is making it possible to know not only what an individual genome is like but also how the human genome changes from one person to another, how genomes differ from one group of humans to another, and even how the genome differs in a tumour with respect to the healthy genome of the host.
Evolutionary relationship between two firefly species, Curtos costipennis and C. okinawanus (Coleoptera, Lampyridae), in the Ryukyu Islands of Japan revealed by the mitochondrial and nuclear DNA sequences.	The phylogenetic relationship, biogeography, and evolutionary history of closely related two firefly species, Curtos costipennis and C. okinawanus, distributed in the Ryukyu Islands of Japan were examined based on nucleotide sequences of mitochondrial (2.2 kb long) and nuclear (1.1-1.2 kb long) DNAs. In these analyses, individuals were divided among three genetically distinct local groups, C. costipennis in the Amami region, C. okinawanus in the Okinawa region, and C. costipennis in the Sakishima region. Their mtDNA sequences suggested that ancestral C. costipennis population was first separated between the Central and Southern Ryukyu areas, and the northern half was then subdivided between C. costipennis in the Amami and C. okinawanus in the Okinawa. The application of the molecular evolutionary clocks of coleopteran insects indicated that their vicariance occurred 1.0-1.4 million years ago, suggesting the influence of submergence and subdivision of a paleopeninsula extending between the Ryukyu Islands and continental China through Taiwan in the early Pleistocene.
High-throughput sequence analysis of turbot (Scophthalmus maximus) transcriptome using 454-pyrosequencing for the discovery of antiviral immune genes.	Turbot (Scophthalmus maximus L.) is an important aquacultural resource both in Europe and Asia. However, there is little information on gene sequences available in public databases. Currently, one of the main problems affecting the culture of this flatfish is mortality due to several pathogens, especially viral diseases which are not treatable. In order to identify new genes involved in immune defense, we conducted 454-pyrosequencing of the turbot transcriptome after different immune stimulations.
Bacterial identification and subtyping using DNA microarray and DNA sequencing.	The era of fast and accurate discovery of biological sequence motifs in prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells is here. The co-evolution of direct genome sequencing and DNA microarray strategies not only will identify, isotype, and serotype pathogenic bacteria, but also it will aid in the discovery of new gene functions by detecting gene expressions in different diseases and environmental conditions. Microarray bacterial identification has made great advances in working with pure and mixed bacterial samples. The technological advances have moved beyond bacterial gene expression to include bacterial identification and isotyping. Application of new tools such as mid-infrared chemical imaging improves detection of hybridization in DNA microarrays. The research in this field is promising and future work will reveal the potential of infrared technology in bacterial identification. On the other hand, DNA sequencing by using 454 pyrosequencing is so cost effective that the promise of $1,000 per bacterial genome sequence is becoming a reality. Pyrosequencing technology is a simple to use technique that can produce accurate and quantitative analysis of DNA sequences with a great speed. The deposition of massive amounts of bacterial genomic information in databanks is creating fingerprint phylogenetic analysis that will ultimately replace several technologies such as Pulsed Field Gel Electrophoresis. In this chapter, we will review (1) the use of DNA microarray using fluorescence and infrared imaging detection for identification of pathogenic bacteria, and (2) use of pyrosequencing in DNA cluster analysis to fingerprint bacterial phylogenetic trees.
Analysis of in vivo transcription factor recruitment by chromatin immunoprecipitation of mouse embryonic kidney.	Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) is a powerful technique for examining transcription factor recruitment to chromatin, or histone modifications, at the level of specific genomic sequences. As such, it provides an invaluable tool for elucidating gene regulation at the molecular level. Combined with high-throughput methods such as second generation sequencing (ChIP-Seq), this technique is now commonly used for studying DNA-protein interactions at a genome-wide scale. The ChIP technique is based on covalent cross-linking of DNA and proteins with formaldehyde, followed by chromatin fragmentation, either enzymatic or by sonication, and immunoprecipitation of protein-DNA complexes using antibodies specific for the protein of interest. The immunoprecipitated DNA is then purified and the DNA sequences associated with the immunoprecipitated protein are identified by PCR (ChIP-PCR) or, alternatively, by direct sequencing (ChIP-Seq). Initially, the vast majority of ChIP experiments were performed on cultured cell lines. More recently, this technique has been adapted to a variety of tissues in different model organisms. We describe here a ChIP protocol on freshly isolated mouse embryonic kidneys for in vivo analysis of transcription factor recruitment on chromatin. This protocol has been easily adapted to other mouse embryonic tissues and has also been successfully scaled up to perform ChIP-Seq.
High-throughput sequencing discovery of conserved and novel microRNAs in Chinese cabbage (Brassica rapa L. ssp. pekinensis).	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of 21-24 nucleotide non-coding RNAs that down-regulate gene expression by cleaving or inhibiting the translation of target gene transcripts. miRNAs have been extensively analyzed in a few model plant species such as Arabidopsis, rice and Populus, and partially investigated in other non-model plant species. However, only a few conserved miRNAs have been identified in Chinese cabbage, a common and economically important crop in Asia. To identify novel and conserved miRNAs in Chinese cabbage (Brassica rapa L. ssp. pekinensis) we constructed a small RNA library. Using high-throughput Solexa sequencing to identify microRNAs we found 11,210 unique sequences belonging to 321 conserved miRNA families and 228 novel miRNAs. We ran a Blast search with these sequences against the Chinese cabbage mRNA database and found 2,308 and 736 potential target genes for 221 conserved and 125 novel miRNAs, respectively. The BlastX search against the Arabidopsis genome and GO analysis suggested most of the targets were involved in plant growth, metabolism, development and stress response. This study provides the first large scale-cloning and characterization of Chinese cabbage miRNAs and their potential targets. These miRNAs add to the growing database of new miRNAs, prompt further study on Chinese cabbage miRNA regulation mechanisms, and help toward a greater understanding of the important roles of miRNAs in Chinese cabbage.
Current applications of high-throughput DNA sequencing technology in antibody drug research]	Since the publication of a high-throughput DNA sequencing technology based on PCR reaction was carried out in oil emulsions in 2005, high-throughput DNA sequencing platforms have been evolved to a robust technology in sequencing genomes and diverse DNA libraries. Antibody libraries with vast numbers of members currently serve as a foundation of discovering novel antibody drugs, and high-throughput DNA sequencing technology makes it possible to rapidly identify functional antibody variants with desired properties. Herein we present a review of current applications of high-throughput DNA sequencing technology in the analysis of antibody library diversity, sequencing of CDR3 regions, identification of potent antibodies based on sequence frequency, discovery of functional genes, and combination with various display technologies, so as to provide an alternative approach of discovery and development of antibody drugs.
Changes in the intestinal microbiota from adulthood through to old age.	The human intestinal microbiota comprises a complex community whose composition has been resolved in fine detail by recent culture-independent methodologies. The adult intestinal microbiota is stable within individuals, and individual specific when examined at high resolution. Infants and older persons, however, represent stages of life in which the microbiota is in flux. Since changes in the intestinal microbiota are associated with certain diseases or health issues, we have examined the composition and function of the intestinal microbiota in 500 subjects over 65 years of age in Ireland. Medical, biochemical and immunological parameters were measured for all subjects. Faecal microbiota was measured by amplicon pyrosequencing. The data revealed significant inter-individual variation, especially in the proportions of some major bacterial phyla, and significant differences in the microbiota compared with younger adults. These data support the notion of modulating the intestinal microbiota of older people to promote enhanced nutrition utilization and to improve general health.
Metagenomics of human microbiome: beyond 16s rDNA.	The gut microbiota presents a symbiotic relationship with the human host playing a beneficial role in human health. Since its establishment, the bacterial community is subjected to the influence of many different factors that shape its composition within each individual. However, an important convergence is observed at functional level in the gut microbiota. A metatranscriptomic study of healthy individuals showed homogeneity in the composition of the active microbiota that increased further at functional level.
Identifying a healthy oral microbiome through metagenomics.	We present the results of an exploratory study of the bacterial communities from the human oral cavity showing the advantages of pyrosequencing complex samples. Over 1.6 million reads from the metagenomes of eight dental plaque samples were taxonomically assigned through a binning procedure. We performed clustering analysis to discern if there were associations between non-caries and caries conditions in the community composition. Our results show a given bacterial consortium associated with cariogenic and non-cariogenic conditions, in agreement with the existence of a healthy oral microbiome and giving support to the idea of dental caries being a polymicrobial disease. The data are coherent with those previously reported in the literature by 16S rRNA amplification, thus giving the chance to link gene functions with taxonomy in further studies involving larger sample numbers.
Extended RET gene analysis in patients with apparently sporadic medullary thyroid cancer: clinical benefits and cost.	RET sequencing has become an important tool in medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) evaluation and should be performed even in the absence of family history of MTC. The most commonly studied exons in index cases are 8, 10, 11, and 13-16. To address the ATA guidelines regarding the sequencing of the entire coding region of RET, we selected 50 patients with sporadic MTC (sMTC) without mutations in the hot spot regions of RET for extended investigation of exons 1-7, 9, 12, 17, 18, and 19. Twenty-seven of 50 patients presented with one or more features suggesting familial disease. We found only a new RET variant (p.Gly550Glu) in one patient with MTC. Several polymorphisms were observed, and their frequency was histogram scaled by exons and introns. Eight patients were also included for somatic mutation search. We estimated the sequencing cost by stratifying into four investigation approaches: (1) hot spot exons in a new patient, (2) the remaining exons if the hot spots are negative in a patient with suspected familial disease, (3) a relative of a carrier for a known RET mutation, and (4) tumor sequencing. In spite of the increasing number of variants being described in MTC, it appears that there is no direct clinical benefit in extending RET germ line analysis beyond the hot spot regions in sMTC. The cost evaluation in apparent sMTC using a tiered approach may help clinicians make more suitable decisions regarding the benefits of investigating only the hot spots against the entire coding region of RET.
A novel genome-information content-based statistic for genome-wide association analysis designed for next-generation sequencing data.	The genome-wide association studies (GWAS) designed for next-generation sequencing data involve testing association of genomic variants, including common, low frequency, and rare variants. The current strategies for association studies are well developed for identifying association of common variants with the common diseases, but may be ill-suited when large amounts of allelic heterogeneity are present in sequence data. Recently, group tests that analyze their collective frequency differences between cases and controls shift the current variant-by-variant analysis paradigm for GWAS of common variants to the collective test of multiple variants in the association analysis of rare variants. However, group tests ignore differences in genetic effects among SNPs at different genomic locations. As an alternative to group tests, we developed a novel genome-information content-based statistics for testing association of the entire allele frequency spectrum of genomic variation with the diseases. To evaluate the performance of the proposed statistics, we use large-scale simulations based on whole genome low coverage pilot data in the 1000 Genomes Project to calculate the type 1 error rates and power of seven alternative statistics: a genome-information content-based statistic, the generalized T(2), collapsing method, multivariate and collapsing (CMC) method, individual (2) test, weighted-sum statistic, and variable threshold statistic. Finally, we apply the seven statistics to published resequencing dataset from ANGPTL3, ANGPTL4, ANGPTL5, and ANGPTL6 genes in the Dallas Heart Study. We report that the genome-information content-based statistic has significantly improved type 1 error rates and higher power than the other six statistics in both simulated and empirical datasets.
The uncertain road towards genomic medicine.	Cheap, high-throughput approaches to generating biological data are transforming biology into a data-driven science and promise to similarly transform medicine. However, the road to genomic medicine is paved with challenges and uncertainty.
HapCompass: a fast cycle basis algorithm for accurate haplotype assembly of sequence data.	Genome assembly methods produce haplotype phase ambiguous assemblies due to limitations in current sequencing technologies. Determining the haplotype phase of an individual is computationally challenging and experimentally expensive. However, haplotype phase information is crucial in many bioinformatics workflows such as genetic association studies and genomic imputation. Current computational methods of determining haplotype phase from sequence data--known as haplotype assembly--have difficulties producing accurate results for large (1000 genomes-type) data or operate on restricted optimizations that are unrealistic considering modern high-throughput sequencing technologies. We present a novel algorithm, HapCompass, for haplotype assembly of densely sequenced human genome data. The HapCompass algorithm operates on a graph where single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are nodes and edges are defined by sequence reads and viewed as supporting evidence of co-occurring SNP alleles in a haplotype. In our graph model, haplotype phasings correspond to spanning trees. We define the minimum weighted edge removal optimization on this graph and develop an algorithm based on cycle basis local optimizations for resolving conflicting evidence. We then estimate the amount of sequencing required to produce a complete haplotype assembly of a chromosome. Using these estimates together with metrics borrowed from genome assembly and haplotype phasing, we compare the accuracy of HapCompass, the Genome Analysis ToolKit, and HapCut for 1000 Genomes Project and simulated data. We show that HapCompass performs significantly better for a variety of data and metrics. HapCompass is freely available for download (www.brown.edu/Research/Istrail_Lab/).
Normal and compound poisson approximations for pattern occurrences in NGS reads.	Next generation sequencing (NGS) technologies are now widely used in many biological studies. In NGS, sequence reads are randomly sampled from the genome sequence of interest. Most computational approaches for NGS data first map the reads to the genome and then analyze the data based on the mapped reads. Since many organisms have unknown genome sequences and many reads cannot be uniquely mapped to the genomes even if the genome sequences are known, alternative analytical methods are needed for the study of NGS data. Here we suggest using word patterns to analyze NGS data. Word pattern counting (the study of the probabilistic distribution of the number of occurrences of word patterns in one or multiple long sequences) has played an important role in molecular sequence analysis. However, no studies are available on the distribution of the number of occurrences of word patterns in NGS reads. In this article, we build probabilistic models for the background sequence and the sampling process of the sequence reads from the genome. Based on the models, we provide normal and compound Poisson approximations for the number of occurrences of word patterns from the sequence reads, with bounds on the approximation error. The main challenge is to consider the randomness in generating the long background sequence, as well as in the sampling of the reads using NGS. We show the accuracy of these approximations under a variety of conditions for different patterns with various characteristics. Under realistic assumptions, the compound Poisson approximation seems to outperform the normal approximation in most situations. These approximate distributions can be used to evaluate the statistical significance of the occurrence of patterns from NGS data. The theory and the computational algorithm for calculating the approximate distributions are then used to analyze ChIP-Seq data using transcription factor GABP. Software is available online (www-rcf.usc.edu/fsun/Programs/NGS_motif_power/NGS_motif_power.html). In addition, Supplementary Material can be found online (www.liebertonline.com/cmb).
Processing and analysis of ChIP-seq data]	The  next-generation sequencing coupled with chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP-seq) is becoming a key technology for the study of transcriptional regulation in the context of functional genomics. Due to the overwhelming amount of data generated from ChIP-seq experiments, the ChIP-seq data processing brings many new challenges in the field of bioinformatics. Considering the development of data processing skills largely behind that of the ChIP-seq experiment techniques, it is urgent to give a review on the ChIP-seq data processing for more and more oncoming researchers to build or improve algorithms. This paper provides a brief overview of the ChIP-seq data processing, highlighting the main prob-lems and methods in detail, to allow scientists to understand rapidly and deeply.
Comparison of CID, ETD and metastable atom-activated dissociation (MAD) of doubly and triply charged phosphorylated tau peptides.	The fragmentation behavior of the 2+ and 3+ charge states of eleven different phosphorylated tau peptides was studied using collision-induced dissociation (CID), electron transfer dissociation (ETD) and metastable atom-activated dissociation (MAD). The synthetic peptides studied contain up to two known phosphorylation sites on serine or threonine residues, at least two basic residues, and between four and eight potential sites of phosphorylation. CID produced mainly b-/y-type ions with abundant neutral losses of the phosphorylation modification. ETD produced c-/z-type ions in highest abundance but also showed numerous y-type ions at a frequency about 50% that of the z-type ions. The major peaks observed in the ETD spectra correspond to the charge-reduced product ions and small neutral losses from the charge-reduced peaks. ETD of the 2+ charge state of each peptide generally produced fewer backbone cleavages than the 3+ charge state, consistent with previous reports. Regardless of charge state, MAD achieved more extensive backbone cleavage than CID or ETD, while retaining the modification(s) in most cases. In all but one case, unambiguous modification site determination was achieved with MAD. MAD produced 15-20% better sequence coverage than CID and ETD for both the 2+ and 3+ charge states and very different fragmentation products indicating that the mechanism of fragmentation in MAD is unique and complementary to CID and ETD.
Detection of BRAF V600E mutation in thyroid fine-needle aspiration specimens by High Resolution Melting (HRM) analysis.	The aim of our study was to test the feasibility of High Resolution Melting (HRM) analysis for detection of BRAF V600E mutation in various types of fine-needle aspiration (FNA) specimens from patients with papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC).
How to identify CRISPRs in sequencing data.	Clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPRs) are DNA sequences composed of a succession of repeats (23-50 bp long) separated by unique sequences called spacers. CRISPRs together with a set of genes called cas for CRISPR associated, constitute a defence mechanism against invasion by foreign sequences. We describe protocols and bioinformatics tools that allow the identification of CRISPRs, their comparison and their component determination (the direct repeats and the spacers). A schematic representation of the spacer organization can be produced, allowing an easy comparison between strains.
The determination of tissue-specific DNA methylation patterns in forensic biofluids using bisulfite modification and pyrosequencing.	The goal of this study is to explore the application of epigenetic markers in the identification of biofluids that are commonly found at the crime scene. A series of genetic loci were examined in order to define epigenetic markers that display differential methylation patterns between blood, saliva, semen, and epithelial tissue. Among the different loci tested, we have identified a panel of markers, C20orf117, ZC3H12D, BCAS4, and FGF7, that can be used in the determination of these four tissue types. Since methylation modifications occur at cytosine bases that are immediately followed by guanine bases (CpG sites), methylation levels were measured at CpG sites spanning each marker. Up to 11 samples of each tissue type were collected and subjected to bisulfite modification to convert unmethylated CpG-associated cytosine bases to thymine bases. The bisulfite modified DNA was then amplified via nested PCR using a primer set of which one primer was biotin labeled. Biotinylated PCR products were in turn analyzed and the methylation level at each CpG site was quantitated by pyrosequencing. The percent methylation values at each CpG site were determined and averaged for each tissue type. The results indicated significant methylation differences between the tissue types. The methylation patterns at the ZC3H12D and FGF7 loci differentiated sperm from blood, saliva, and epithelial cells. The C20orf117 locus differentiated blood from sperm, saliva, and epithelial cells and saliva was differentiated from blood, sperm, and epithelial cells at a fourth locus, BCAS4. The results of this study demonstrate the applicability of epigenetic markers as a novel tool for the determination of biofluids using bisulfite modification and pyrosequencing.
Copy number variation in the cattle genome.	Copy number variations (CNVs) are gains and losses of genomic sequence greater than 50bp between two individuals of a species. While single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are more frequent, CNVs impact a higher percentage of genomic sequence and have potentially greater effects, including the changing of gene structure and dosage, altering gene regulation and exposing recessive alleles. In particular, segmental duplications (SDs) were shown to be one of the catalysts and hotspots for CNV formation. Substantial progress has been made in understanding CNVs in mammals, especially in humans and rodents. CNVs have been shown to be important in both normal phenotypic variability and disease susceptibility. Recently, interest in CNV study has extended into domesticated animals, including cattle. Multiple genome-wide cattle CNV studies have been carried out using both microarray and next generation sequencing technologies. Integration of SD and CNV results with SNP and other datasets are beginning to reveal impacts of CNVs on cattle domestication, health, and production traits.
Copy-number-aware differential analysis of quantitative DNA sequencing data.	Developments in microarray and high-throughput sequencing (HTS) technologies have resulted in a rapid expansion of research into epigenomic changes that occur in normal development and in the progression of disease, such as cancer. Not surprisingly, copy number variation (CNV) has a direct effect on HTS read densities and can therefore bias differential detection results. We have developed a flexible approach called ABCD-DNA (affinity-based copy-number-aware differential quantitative DNA sequencing analyses) that integrates CNV and other systematic factors directly into the differential enrichment engine.
The insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF1R) contributes to reduced size in dogs.	Domestic dog breeds have undergone intense selection for a variety of morphologic features, including size. Among small-dog breeds, defined as those averaging less than ~15 in. at the withers, there remains still considerable variation in body size. Yet essentially all such dogs are fixed for the same allele at the insulin-like growth factor 1 gene, which we and others previously found to be a size locus of large effect. In this study we sought to identify additional genes that contribute to tiny size in dogs using an association scan with the single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) dataset CanMap, in which 915 purebred dogs were genotyped at 60,968 SNP markers. Our strongest association for tiny size (defined as breed-average height not more than 10 in. at the withers) was on canine chromosome 3 (p = 1.9  10(-70)). Fine mapping revealed a nonsynonymous SNP at chr3:44,706,389 that changes a highly conserved arginine at amino acid 204 to histidine in the insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF1R). This mutation is predicted to prevent formation of several hydrogen bonds within the cysteine-rich domain of the receptor's ligand-binding extracellular subunit. Nine of 13 tiny dog breeds carry the mutation and many dogs are homozygous for it. This work underscores the central importance of the IGF1 pathway in controlling the tremendous size diversity of dogs.
Classification of human genomic regions based on experimentally determined binding sites of more than 100 transcription-related factors.	Transcription factors function by binding different classes of regulatory elements. The Encyclopedia of DNA Elements (ENCODE) project has recently produced binding data for more than 100 transcription factors from about 500 ChIP-seq experiments in multiple cell types. While this large amount of data creates a valuable resource, it is nonetheless overwhelmingly complex and simultaneously incomplete since it covers only a small fraction of all human transcription factors.
Analysis of variation at transcription factor binding sites in Drosophila and humans.	Advances in sequencing technology have boosted population genomics and made it possible to map the positions of transcription factor binding sites (TFBSs) with high precision. Here we investigate TFBS variability by combining transcription factor binding maps generated by ENCODE, modENCODE, our previously published data and other sources with genomic variation data for human individuals and Drosophila isogenic lines.
Current mutation discovery approaches in Retinitis Pigmentosa.	With a worldwide prevalence of about 1 in 3500-5000 individuals, Retinitis Pigmentosa (RP) is the most common form of hereditary retinal degeneration. It is an extremely heterogeneous group of genetically determined retinal diseases leading to progressive loss of vision due to impairment of rod and cone photoreceptors. RP can be inherited as an autosomal-recessive, autosomal-dominant, or X-linked trait. Non-Mendelian inheritance patterns such as digenic, maternal (mitochondrial) or compound heterozygosity have also been reported. To date, more than 65 genes have been implicated in syndromic and non-syndromic forms of RP, which account for only about 60% of all RP cases. Due to this high heterogeneity and diversity of inheritance patterns, the molecular diagnosis of syndromic and non-syndromic RP is very challenging, and the heritability of 40% of total RP cases worldwide remains unknown. However new sequencing methodologies, boosted by the human genome project, have contributed to exponential plummeting in sequencing costs, thereby making it feasible to include molecular testing for RP patients in routine clinical practice within the coming years. Here, we summarize the most widely used state-of-the-art technologies currently applied for the molecular diagnosis of RP, and address their strengths and weaknesses for the molecular diagnosis of such a complex genetic disease.
Estimate of the spontaneous mutation rate in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii.	The nature of spontaneous mutations, including their rate, distribution across the genome, and fitness consequences, is of central importance to biology. However, the low rate of mutation has made it difficult to study spontaneous mutagenesis, and few studies have directly addressed these questions. Here, we present a direct estimate of the mutation rate and a description of the properties of new spontaneous mutations in the unicellular green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. We conducted a mutation accumulation experiment for 350 generations followed by whole-genome resequencing of two replicate lines. Our analysis identified a total of 14 mutations, including 5 short indels and 9 single base mutations, and no evidence of larger structural mutations. From this, we estimate a total mutation rate of 3.23  10(-10)/site/generation (95% C.I. 1.82  10(-10) to 5.23  10(-10)) and a single base mutation rate of 2.08  10(-10)/site/generation (95% C.I., 1.09  10(-10) to 3.74  10(-10)). We observed no mutations from A/T  G/C, suggesting a strong mutational bias toward A/T, although paradoxically, the GC content of the C. reinhardtii genome is very high. Our estimate is only the second direct estimate of the mutation rate from plants and among the lowest spontaneous base-substitution rates known in eukaryotes.
DNA sequencing and bar-coding using solid-state nanopores.	Nanopores have emerged as a prominent single-molecule analytic tool with particular promise for genomic applications. In this review, we discuss two potential applications of the nanopore sensors: First, we present a nanopore-based single-molecule DNA sequencing method that utilizes optical detection for massively parallel throughput. Second, we describe a method by which nanopores can be used as single-molecule genotyping tools. For DNA sequencing, the distinction among the four types of DNA nucleobases is achieved by employing a biochemical procedure for DNA expansion. In this approach, each nucleobase in each DNA strand is converted into one of four predefined unique 16-mers in a process that preserves the nucleobase sequence. The resulting converted strands are then hybridized to a library of four molecular beacons, each carrying a unique fluorophore tag, that are perfect complements to the 16-mers used for conversion. Solid-state nanopores are then used to sequentially remove these beacons, one after the other, leading to a series of photon bursts in four colors that can be optically detected. Single-molecule genotyping is achieved by tagging the DNA fragments with -modified synthetic peptide nucleic acid probes coupled to an electronic characterization of the complexes using solid-state nanopores. This method can be used to identify and differentiate genes with a high level of sequence similarity at the single-molecule level, but different pathology or response to treatment. We will illustrate this method by differentiating the pol gene for two highly similar human immunodeficiency virus subtypes, paving the way for a novel diagnostics platform for viral classification.
Slowing down DNA translocation through a nanopore by lowering fluid temperature.	In the next-generation nanopore-based DNA sequencing technique, the DNA nanoparticles are electrophoretically driven through a nanopore by an external electric field, and the ionic current through the nanopore is simultaneously altered and recorded during the DNA translocation process. The change in the ionic current through the nanopore as the DNA molecule passes through the nanopore represents a direct reading of the DNA sequence. Due to the large mismatch of the cross-sectional areas of the nanopore and the microfluidic reservoirs, the electric field inside the nanopore is significantly higher than that in the fluid reservoirs. This results in high-speed DNA translocation through the nanopore and consequently low read-out accuracy on the DNA sequences. Slowing down DNA translocation through the nanopore thus is one of the challenges in the nanopore-based DNA sequencing technique. Slowing down DNA translocation by lowering the fluid temperature is theoretically investigated for the first time using a continuum model, composed of the coupled Poisson-Nernst-Planck equations for the ionic mass transport and the Navier-Stokes equations for the hydrodynamic field. The results qualitatively agree with the existing experimental results. Lowering the fluid temperature from 25 to 0C reduces the translocation speed by a magnitude of about 6.21 to 2.50 mm/sK (i.e. 49.82 to 49.71%) for the salt concentration at 200 and 2000 mM, respectively, improving the read-out accuracy considerably. As the fluid temperature decreases, the magnitude of the ionic current signal decreases (increases) when the salt concentration is high (sufficiently low).
Rapid characterization of mitochondrial genome rearrangements in Australian songbirds using next-generation sequencing technology.	Using next-generation sequencing technology, we describe the complete mitochondrial genomes for 5 Australian passerine birds (Epthianura albifrons, Petroica phoenicea, Petroica goodenovii, Petroica boodang, and Eopsaltria australis). We successfully assemble each mitogenome de novo using just 1/8th of a Roche GL FSX 454 pyrosequencing plate. From the assembled mitogenomes, we identify 2 different mitochondrial gene arrangements in the region spanning 5'-3' from Cytochrome B to 12s RNA. These gene arrangements represent 2 of the 4 known avian mitochondrial gene arrangements. Our results, together with other previously described avian mitogenomes, highlight that certain mitochondrial rearrangements appear to have arisen multiple times.
Recent advances in nanopore sequencing.	The prospect of nanopores as a next-generation sequencing platform has been a topic of growing interest and considerable government-sponsored research for more than a decade. Oxford Nanopore Technologies recently announced the first commercial nanopore sequencing devices, to be made available by the end of 2012, while other companies (Life, Roche, and IBM) are also pursuing nanopore sequencing approaches. In this paper, the state of the art in nanopore sequencing is reviewed, focusing on the most recent contributions that have or promise to have next-generation sequencing commercial potential. We consider also the scalability of the circuitry to support multichannel arrays of nanopores in future sequencing devices, which is critical to commercial viability.
Evaluation and optimisation of preparative semi-automated electrophoresis systems for Illumina library preparation.	Size selection can be a critical step in preparation of next-generation sequencing libraries. Traditional methods employing gel electrophoresis lack reproducibility, are labour intensive, do not scale well and employ hazardous interchelating dyes. In a high-throughput setting, solid-phase reversible immobilisation beads are commonly used for size-selection, but result in quite a broad fragment size range. We have evaluated and optimised the use of two semi-automated preparative DNA electrophoresis systems, the Caliper Labchip XT and the Sage Science Pippin Prep, for size selection of Illumina sequencing libraries.
Differential haplotype amplification leads to misgenotyping of heterozygote as homozygote when using single nucleotide mismatch primer.	Mismatches at the 3'end of /or within a primer are reported to affect the efficiency of PCR and cause allele drop. Here, we report preferential amplification of one haplotype and misgenotyping, when double heterozygotes at NAT1 (rs1057126 and rs15561) were genotyped by sequencing and PCR-RFLP methods using mismatch reverse primers located next to the target SNP. Detailed study revealed highest (100%) and lowest (0%) misgenotyping when the mismatch was at the 3rd and 15th nucleotide positions from 3' end of the primer, respectively. But, the same primers, without any mismatch genotyped heterozygotes correctly. Homozygotes can always be detected correctly irrespective of mismatch position in the primer. Similar results were observed for two SNPs (rs12947788 and rs 12951053) at TP53. Using mismatch NAT1 reverse primers, located three nucleotides away from the target SNP, both TaqMan and sequencing methods showed preferential synthesis of one haplotype strand and misgenotyping in heterozygotes, respectively. So, mismatch primer, located next to target SNP, should be avoided to genotype heterozygotes, since, PCR and sequencing based genotyping methods may lead the investigators to report faulty allelic and genotypic frequencies. This study mimics a situation when an unknown variation is present in the primer-binding sites of both chromosomes.
Mind the gap: upgrading genomes with Pacific Biosciences RS long-read sequencing technology.	Many genomes have been sequenced to high-quality draft status using Sanger capillary electrophoresis and/or newer short-read sequence data and whole genome assembly techniques. However, even the best draft genomes contain gaps and other imperfections due to limitations in the input data and the techniques used to build draft assemblies. Sequencing biases, repetitive genomic features, genomic polymorphism, and other complicating factors all come together to make some regions difficult or impossible to assemble. Traditionally, draft genomes were upgraded to "phase 3 finished" status using time-consuming and expensive Sanger-based manual finishing processes. For more facile assembly and automated finishing of draft genomes, we present here an automated approach to finishing using long-reads from the Pacific Biosciences RS (PacBio) platform. Our algorithm and associated software tool, PBJelly, (publicly available at https://sourceforge.net/projects/pb-jelly/) automates the finishing process using long sequence reads in a reference-guided assembly process. PBJelly also provides "lift-over" co-ordinate tables to easily port existing annotations to the upgraded assembly. Using PBJelly and long PacBio reads, we upgraded the draft genome sequences of a simulated Drosophila melanogaster, the version 2 draft Drosophila pseudoobscura, an assembly of the Assemblathon 2.0 budgerigar dataset, and a preliminary assembly of the Sooty mangabey. With 24 mapped coverage of PacBio long-reads, we addressed 99% of gaps and were able to close 69% and improve 12% of all gaps in D. pseudoobscura. With 4 mapped coverage of PacBio long-reads we saw reads address 63% of gaps in our budgerigar assembly, of which 32% were closed and 63% improved. With 6.8 mapped coverage of mangabey PacBio long-reads we addressed 97% of gaps and closed 66% of addressed gaps and improved 19%. The accuracy of gap closure was validated by comparison to Sanger sequencing on gaps from the original D. pseudoobscura draft assembly and shown to be dependent on initial reference quality.
BG7: a new approach for bacterial genome annotation designed for next generation sequencing data.	BG7 is a new system for de novo bacterial, archaeal and viral genome annotation based on a new approach specifically designed for annotating genomes sequenced with next generation sequencing technologies. The system is versatile and able to annotate genes even in the step of preliminary assembly of the genome. It is especially efficient detecting unexpected genes horizontally acquired from bacterial or archaeal distant genomes, phages, plasmids, and mobile elements. From the initial phases of the gene annotation process, BG7 exploits the massive availability of annotated protein sequences in databases. BG7 predicts ORFs and infers their function based on protein similarity with a wide set of reference proteins, integrating ORF prediction and functional annotation phases in just one step. BG7 is especially tolerant to sequencing errors in start and stop codons, to frameshifts, and to assembly or scaffolding errors. The system is also tolerant to the high level of gene fragmentation which is frequently found in not fully assembled genomes. BG7 current version - which is developed in Java, takes advantage of Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud computing features, but it can also be run locally in any operating system. BG7 is a fast, automated and scalable system that can cope with the challenge of analyzing the huge amount of genomes that are being sequenced with NGS technologies. Its capabilities and efficiency were demonstrated in the 2011 EHEC Germany outbreak in which BG7 was used to get the first annotations right the next day after the first entero-hemorrhagic E. coli genome sequences were made publicly available. The suitability of BG7 for genome annotation has been proved for Illumina, 454, Ion Torrent, and PacBio sequencing technologies. Besides, thanks to its plasticity, our system could be very easily adapted to work with new technologies in the future.
Patterns of deep-sea genetic connectivity in the New Zealand region: implications for management of benthic ecosystems.	Patterns of genetic connectivity are increasingly considered in the design of marine protected areas (MPAs) in both shallow and deep water. In the New Zealand Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ), deep-sea communities at upper bathyal depths (<2000 m) are vulnerable to anthropogenic disturbance from fishing and potential mining operations. Currently, patterns of genetic connectivity among deep-sea populations throughout New Zealand's EEZ are not well understood. Using the mitochondrial Cytochrome Oxidase I and 16S rRNA genes as genetic markers, this study aimed to elucidate patterns of genetic connectivity among populations of two common benthic invertebrates with contrasting life history strategies. Populations of the squat lobster Munida gracilis and the polychaete Hyalinoecia longibranchiata were sampled from continental slope, seamount, and offshore rise habitats on the Chatham Rise, Hikurangi Margin, and Challenger Plateau. For the polychaete, significant population structure was detected among distinct populations on the Chatham Rise, the Hikurangi Margin, and the Challenger Plateau. Significant genetic differences existed between slope and seamount populations on the Hikurangi Margin, as did evidence of population differentiation between the northeast and southwest parts of the Chatham Rise. In contrast, no significant population structure was detected across the study area for the squat lobster. Patterns of genetic connectivity in Hyalinoecia longibranchiata are likely influenced by a number of factors including current regimes that operate on varying spatial and temporal scales to produce potential barriers to dispersal. The striking difference in population structure between species can be attributed to differences in life history strategies. The results of this study are discussed in the context of existing conservation areas that are intended to manage anthropogenic threats to deep-sea benthic communities in the New Zealand region.
Two different high throughput sequencing approaches identify thousands of de novo genomic markers for the genetically depleted Bornean elephant.	High throughput sequencing technologies are being applied to an increasing number of model species with a high-quality reference genome. The application and analyses of whole-genome sequence data in non-model species with no prior genomic information are currently under way. Recent sequencing technologies provide new opportunities for gathering genomic data in natural populations, laying the empirical foundation for future research in the field of conservation and population genomics. Here we present the case study of the Bornean elephant, which is the most endangered subspecies of Asian elephant and exhibits very low genetic diversity. We used two different sequencing platforms, the Roche 454 FLX (shotgun) and Illumina, GAIIx (Restriction site associated DNA, RAD) to evaluate the feasibility of the two methodologies for the discovery of de novo markers (single nucleotide polymorphism, SNPs and microsatellites) using low coverage data. Approximately, 6,683 (shotgun) and 14,724 (RAD) SNPs were detected within our elephant sequence dataset. Genotyping of a representative sample of 194 SNPs resulted in a SNP validation rate of ~83 to 94% and 17% of the loci were polymorphic with a low diversity (H(o)=0.057). Different numbers of microsatellites were identified through shotgun (27,226) and RAD (868) techniques. Out of all di-, tri-, and tetra-microsatellite loci, 1,706 loci had sufficient flanking regions (shotgun) while only 7 were found with RAD. All microsatellites were monomorphic in the Bornean but polymorphic in another elephant subspecies. Despite using different sample sizes, and the well known differences in the two platforms used regarding sequence length and throughput, the two approaches showed high validation rate. The approaches used here for marker development in a threatened species demonstrate the utility of high throughput sequencing technologies as a starting point for the development of genomic tools in a non-model species and in particular for a species with low genetic diversity.
DNA barcode sequencing from old type specimens as a tool in taxonomy: a case study in the diverse genus Eois (Lepidoptera: Geometridae).	In this study we report on the sequencing of the COI barcode region from 96 historical specimens (92 type specimens +4 non-types) of Eois. Eois is a diverse clade of tropical geometrid moths and is the target of a number of ongoing studies on life-histories, phylogeny, co-evolution with host plants or parasitoids, and diversity patterns across temporal and spatial dimensions. The unequivocal application of valid names is crucial for all aspects of biodiversity research as well as monitoring and conservation efforts. The availability of barcodes from historical type specimens has the potential to facilitate the much-needed acceleration of species description. We performed non-destructive DNA extraction on the abdomens of Eois specimens between 79 and 157 years of age. We used six primer combinations (recovering between 109 and 130 bp each) to target the full-length barcode sequence of each specimen. We were able to obtain sequences for 91 of 96 specimens (success rate 94.8%). Sequence length ranged from 121 bp to full barcode sequences (658 bp), the average sequence length was ~500 bp. We detected a moderately strong and statistically significant negative correlation between specimen age and total sequence length, which is in agreement with expectations. The abdomen proved to be an exceedingly valuable source of DNA in old specimens of Lepidoptera. Barcode sequences obtained in this study are currently being used in an effort towards a step-wise taxonomic revision of Eois. We encourage that DNA barcodes obtained from types specimens should be included in all species descriptions and revisions whenever feasible.
Molecular typing of adenoviruses isolated from clinical specimens by PCR and DNA sequencing methods]	Adenoviruses are responsible for a broad spectrum of diseases, including upper and lower respiratory tract infections (URTIs and LRTIs, respectively), conjunctivitis, gastroenteritis, and hemorrhagic cystitis. The aim of this study was to determine the adenovirus (AdV) types isolated from clinical specimens by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and DNA sequencing methods. A total of 22 AdV strains isolated between January 1st 2011 to May 31th 2011, from various samples (295 nasopharyngeal swabs, 42 conjunctival swabs, 13 stool) sent to our routine virology laboratory were included in the study. Of the 22 patients whose samples yielded adenovirus positivity, 8 were adult (4 were male; median age: 32.5 years) and 14 (7 were male; median age: 1 year) were children. Those specimens (14 nasopharyngeal swabs, 7 conjunctival swabs, 1 stool) were obtained from patients with URTIs (n= 6), LRTIs (n= 8), conjunctivitis (n= 7) and gastroenteritis (n= 1). For the isolation and identification of adenoviruses, rapid (shell vial) cell culture and direct immunofluorescence antibody methods were used, respectively. Molecular typing of adenoviruses were performed by PCR and sequencing of a partial region (hipervariable region 1-6) of the hexon gene. PCR primers (Adhex F1, Adhex R1) used for DNA amplification were from those described by Lu and Erdman, previously. If insufficient DNA was amplified from the first reaction for sequencing, a nested PCR was performed using Adhex F2 and Adhex R2 primers. Sequencing was performed using the amplification primers and Sequence Reagent Mix-DYEnamic ET Terminator Cycle Sequencing Kit (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech Inc, USA) on ABI PRISM 310 Genetic Analyzer (Applied Biosystems, USA). Obtained adenovirus sequences were typed by BLAST analysis and three AdV types namely type 3, 4, and 8 were identified. In our study, AdV type 3 was detected in a gastroenteritis case and six cases with URTIs and LRTIs (n= 7, 31.8%). AdV type 8 was identified as the cause of conjunctivitis in seven patients and of URTIs and LRTIs in five patients (n= 12, 54.5%). AdV type 4 was found to be associated with URTI in one, and LRTIs in two patients (n= 3; 13.7%). Our data indicated that AdV type 8 was the most prevalent type in patients with conjunctivitis and URTIs, while AdV type 3 was the most prevalent type in patients with LRTI. BLAST analysis was thought to be useful for the molecular typing of adenoviruses. In conclusion, advanced studies with large number of specimens are necessary to achive a reliable, detailed national adenovirus database.
Technical considerations for reduced representation bisulfite sequencing with multiplexed libraries.	Reduced representation bisulfite sequencing (RRBS), which couples bisulfite conversion and next generation sequencing, is an innovative method that specifically enriches genomic regions with a high density of potential methylation sites and enables investigation of DNA methylation at single-nucleotide resolution. Recent advances in the Illumina DNA sample preparation protocol and sequencing technology have vastly improved sequencing throughput capacity. Although the new Illumina technology is now widely used, the unique challenges associated with multiplexed RRBS libraries on this platform have not been previously described. We have made modifications to the RRBS library preparation protocol to sequence multiplexed libraries on a single flow cell lane of the Illumina HiSeq 2000. Furthermore, our analysis incorporates a bioinformatics pipeline specifically designed to process bisulfite-converted sequencing reads and evaluate the output and quality of the sequencing data generated from the multiplexed libraries. We obtained an average of 42 million paired-end reads per sample for each flow-cell lane, with a high unique mapping efficiency to the reference human genome. Here we provide a roadmap of modifications, strategies, and trouble shooting approaches we implemented to optimize sequencing of multiplexed libraries on an a RRBS background.
Tet-assisted bisulfite sequencing of 5-hydroxymethylcytosine.	A complete understanding of the potential function of 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5-hmC), a DNA cytosine modification in mammalian cells, requires an accurate single-base resolution sequencing method. Here we describe a modified bisulfite-sequencing method, Tet-assisted bisulfite sequencing (TAB-seq), which can identify 5-hmC at single-base resolution, as well as determine its abundance at each modification site. This protocol involves -glucosyltransferase (-GT)-mediated protection of 5-hmC (glucosylation) and recombinant mouse Tet1(mTet1)-mediated oxidation of 5-methylcytosine (5-mC) to 5-carboxylcytosine (5-caC). After the subsequent bisulfite treatment and PCR amplification, both cytosine and 5-caC (derived from 5-mC) are converted to thymine (T), whereas 5-hmC reads as C. The treated genomic DNA is suitable for both whole-genome and locus-specific sequencing. The entire procedure (which does not include data analysis) can be completed in 14 d for whole-genome sequencing or 7 d for locus-specific sequencing.
Detection of chromosomal alterations in the circulation of cancer patients with whole-genome sequencing.	Clinical management of cancer patients could be improved through the development of noninvasive approaches for the detection of incipient, residual, and recurrent tumors. We describe an approach to directly identify tumor-derived chromosomal alterations through analysis of circulating cell-free DNA from cancer patients. Whole-genome analyses of DNA from the plasma of 10 colorectal and breast cancer patients and 10 healthy individuals with massively parallel sequencing identified, in all patients, structural alterations that were not present in plasma DNA from healthy subjects. Detected alterations comprised chromosomal copy number changes and rearrangements, including amplification of cancer driver genes such as ERBB2 and CDK6. The level of circulating tumor DNA in the cancer patients ranged from 1.4 to 47.9%. The sensitivity and specificity of this approach are dependent on the amount of sequence data obtained and are derived from the fact that most cancers harbor multiple chromosomal alterations, each of which is unlikely to be present in normal cells. Given that chromosomal abnormalities are present in nearly all human cancers, this approach represents a useful method for the noninvasive detection of human tumors that is not dependent on the availability of tumor biopsies.
Identification and analysis methods of plant LTR retrotransposon sequences]	LTR retrotransposons are an important class of eukaryotic transposable elements, which are ubiquitous and highly heterogeneous in plant and play a major role in genome evolution of eukaryote. They are now extensively employed in gene function and genetic diversity analyses. Identification of LTR retrotransposons is the precondition for its application. Therefore, it has important theoretical significance and practical application value in studying identification and analysis methods LTR retrotransposon sequences. Bioinformatic software of the sequence analysis, according to the work principle, can be classified roughly into two types: sequence alignment and sequence identification of conserved domains. Alignment software, such as BLAST and DNAstar, produce the corresponding sequence information through comparison of sequence similarity; however, this kind of software cannot be applied for full length sequences. According to the principle, LTR retro-transposon sequence identification software can be roughly sorted into four types: de novo repeat discovery method, com-parative genomic method, homology-based method, and structure-based method. For example, LTR_Finder based on de novo repeat discovery method can accurately predict and annotate LTR retrotransposons for full length sequences; Repeat-Masker, which is based on homology-based method, can discover LTR retrotransposons by comparing the similarity with known sequences in the database. In this article, different methods of identification and analysis of retrotransposon se-quences were compared and analyzed, and a set of flow of LTR retrotransposons sequence analysis was summarized in order to provide the reference for LTR retrotransposons sequence analysis.
Large-scale isolation of microsatellites from Chinese Mitten Crab Eriocheir sinensis via a Solexa Genomic Survey.	Microsatellites are simple sequence repeats with a high degree of polymorphism in the genome; they are used as DNA markers in many molecular genetic studies. Using traditional methods such as the magnetic beads enrichment method, only a few microsatellite markers have been isolated from the Chinese mitten crab Eriocheir sinensis, as the crab genome sequence information is unavailable. Here, we have identified a large number of microsatellites from the Chinese mitten crab by taking advantage of Solexa genomic surveying. A total of 141,737 SSR (simple sequence repeats) motifs were identified via analysis of 883 Mb of the crab genomic DNA information, including mono-, di-, tri-, tetra-, penta- and hexa-nucleotide repeat motifs. The number of di-nucleotide repeat motifs was 82,979, making this the most abundant type of repeat motif (58.54%); the second most abundant were the tri-nucleotide repeats (42,657, 30.11%). Among di-nucleotide repeats, the most frequent repeats were AC motifs, accounting for 67.55% of the total number. AGG motifs were the most frequent (59.32%) of the tri-nucleotide motifs. A total of 15,125 microsatellite loci had a flanking sequence suitable for setting the primer of a polymerase chain reaction (PCR). To verify the identified SSRs, a subset of 100 primer pairs was randomly selected for PCR. Eighty two primer sets (82%) produced strong PCR products matching expected sizes, and 78% were polymorphic. In an analysis of 30 wild individuals from the Yangtze River with 20 primer sets, the number of alleles per locus ranged from 2--14 and the mean allelic richness was 7.4. No linkage disequilibrium was found between any pair of loci, indicating that the markers were independent. The Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium test showed significant deviation in four of the 20 microsatellite loci after sequential Bonferroni corrections. This method is cost- and time-effective in comparison to traditional approaches for the isolation of microsatellites.
Mapping and sequencing DNA using nanopores and nanodetectors.	Even prior to the introduction of capillary DNA sequencers, nanopores were discussed as a low-cost, high-throughput substrate for sequencing. Since then, other next-generation sequencing technologies have been developed and achieved widespread use, but nanopores have lagged behind due to difficulties in generating usable sequence data. The practical and theoretical issues of translocation speed and signal detection encountered when attempting to sequence DNA with nanopores are discussed. Various methods that different laboratories have used to overcome difficulties in biologically based and solid-state nanopores are also presented. Different approaches designed to circumvent the overriding issue of detecting signals from individual bases in a time-resolved manner in nanopores are described. For example, genomic positional sequencing utilizes hybridization of short oligonucleotide probes to very long DNA templates and then detects these probes by variations in current blockade in solid-state nanodetectors. The positions of the probes relative to each other and relative to the ends of the DNA are determined by measuring the time between current blockade peaks. By assembling many such measurements, it is possible to overcome the problems encountered when attempting to sequence DNA at high speed in nanopores, providing the potential for true de novo sequencing of large genomes on a routine basis.
A comparison of the whole genome approach of MeDIP-seq to the targeted approach of the Infinium HumanMethylation450 BeadChip() for methylome profiling.	DNA methylation is one of the most studied epigenetic marks in the human genome, with the result that the desire to map the human methylome has driven the development of several methods to map DNA methylation on a genomic scale. Our study presents the first comparison of two of these techniques - the targeted approach of the Infinium HumanMethylation450 BeadChip with the immunoprecipitation and sequencing-based method, MeDIP-seq. Both methods were initially validated with respect to bisulfite sequencing as the gold standard and then assessed in terms of coverage, resolution and accuracy. The regions of the methylome that can be assayed by both methods and those that can only be assayed by one method were determined and the discovery of differentially methylated regions (DMRs) by both techniques was examined. Our results show that the Infinium HumanMethylation450 BeadChip and MeDIP-seq show a good positive correlation (Spearman correlation of 0.68) on a genome-wide scale and can both be used successfully to determine differentially methylated loci in RefSeq genes, CpG islands, shores and shelves. MeDIP-seq however, allows a wider interrogation of methylated regions of the human genome, including thousands of non-RefSeq genes and repetitive elements, all of which may be of importance in disease. In our study MeDIP-seq allowed the detection of 15,709 differentially methylated regions, nearly twice as many as the array-based method (8070), which may result in a more comprehensive study of the methylome.
Molecular diversity assessment using Sequence Related Amplified Polymorphism (SRAP) Markers in Vicia faba L.	Sequence-related amplified polymorphism (SRAP) markers were used to assess the genetic diversity and relationship among 58 faba bean (Vicia faba L.) genotypes. Fourteen SRAP primer combinations amplified a total of 1036 differently sized  well-resolved peaks (fragments), of which all were polymorphic with a 0.96 PIC value and discriminated all of the 58 faba bean genotypes. An average pairwise similarity of 21% was revealed among the genotypes ranging from 2% to 65%. At a similarity of 28%, UPGMA clustered the genotypes into three main groups comprising 78% of the genotypes. The local landraces and most of the Egyptian genotypes in addition to the Sudan genotypes were grouped in the first main cluster. The advanced breeding lines were scattered in the second and third main clusters with breeding lines from the ICARDA and genotypes introduced from Egypt. At a similarity of 47%, all the genotypes formed separated clusters with the exceptions of Hassawi 1 and Hassawi 2. Group analysis of the genotypes according to their geographic origin and type showed that the landraces were grouped according to their origin, while others were grouped according to their seed type. To our knowledge, this is the first application of SRAP markers for the assessment of genetic diversity in faba bean. Such information will be useful to determine optimal breeding strategies to allow continued progress in faba bean breeding.
A fast and accurate SNP detection algorithm for next-generation sequencing data.	Various methods have been developed for calling single-nucleotide polymorphisms from next-generation sequencing data. However, for satisfactory performance, most of these methods require expensive high-depth sequencing. Here, we propose a fast and accurate single-nucleotide polymorphism detection program that uses a binomial distribution-based algorithm and a mutation probability. We extensively assess this program on normal and cancer next-generation sequencing data from The Cancer Genome Atlas project and pooled data from the 1,000 Genomes Project. We also compare the performance of several state-of-the-art programs for single-nucleotide polymorphism calling and evaluate their pros and cons. We demonstrate that our program is a fast and highly accurate single-nucleotide polymorphism detection method, particularly when the sequence depth is low. The program can finish single-nucleotide polymorphism calling within four hours for 10-fold human genome next-generation sequencing data (30 gigabases) on a standard desktop computer.
In silico search of DNA drugs targeting oncogenes.	Triplex forming oligonucleotides (TFOs) represent a class of drug candidates for antigene therapy. Based on strict criteria, we investigated the potential of 25 known oncogenes to be regulated by TFOs in the mRNA synthesis level and we report specific target sequences found in seven of these genes.
A novel strategy for the determination of a rhabdovirus genome and its application to sequencing of Eggplant mottled dwarf virus.	A novel strategy employing the rhabdovirus untranslated conserved intergenic regions was developed and applied successfully for the determination of the complete nucleotide sequence of Eggplant mottled dwarf virus (EMDV). The EMDV genome contains seven open reading frames with the same organization as Potato yellow dwarf virus (PYDV), the type species of the genus Nucleorhabdovirus. These two species encode five core genes [nucleocapsid (N), phosphoprotein (P), matrix (M), glycoprotein (G), and the polymerase (L)] like other viruses of the genus and an additional one (X), located between N and P, giving rise to a protein with currently unknown function. Furthermore, both EMDV and PYDV contain a gene (Y), inserted between P and M, which probably encodes the virus movement protein, in concordance with the rest of the plant-infecting rhabdoviruses. Phylogenetic analysis of the polymerase gene confirmed the classification of EMDV within the genus Nucleorhabdovirus and showed a close evolutionary relationship to PYDV. The novel sequencing strategy developed is a useful tool for the genome determination of yet uncharacterized rhabdoviruses. 
High-resolution mapping of in vivo genomic transcription factor binding sites using in situ DNase I footprinting and ChIP-seq.	Accurate identification of the DNA-binding sites of transcription factors and other DNA-binding proteins on the genome is crucial to understanding their molecular interactions with DNA. Here, we describe a new method: Genome Footprinting by high-throughput sequencing (GeF-seq), which combines in vivo DNase I digestion of genomic DNA with ChIP coupled with high-throughput sequencing. We have determined the in vivo binding sites of a Bacillus subtilis global regulator, AbrB, using GeF-seq. This method shows that exact DNA-binding sequences, which were protected from in vivo DNase I digestion, were resolved at a comparable resolution to that achieved by in vitro DNase I footprinting, and this was simply attained without the necessity of prediction by peak-calling programs. Moreover, DNase I digestion of the bacterial nucleoid resolved the closely positioned AbrB-binding sites, which had previously appeared as one peak in ChAP-chip and ChAP-seq experiments. The high-resolution determination of AbrB-binding sites using GeF-seq enabled us to identify bipartite TGGNA motifs in 96% of the AbrB-binding sites. Interestingly, in a thousand binding sites with very low-binding intensities, single TGGNA motifs were also identified. Thus, GeF-seq is a powerful method to elucidate the molecular mechanism of target protein binding to its cognate DNA sequences. 
DDBJ read annotation pipeline: a cloud computing-based pipeline for high-throughput analysis of next-generation sequencing data.	High-performance next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies are advancing genomics and molecular biological research. However, the immense amount of sequence data requires computational skills and suitable hardware resources that are a challenge to molecular biologists. The DNA Data Bank of Japan (DDBJ) of the National Institute of Genetics (NIG) has initiated a cloud computing-based analytical pipeline, the DDBJ Read Annotation Pipeline (DDBJ Pipeline), for a high-throughput annotation of NGS reads. The DDBJ Pipeline offers a user-friendly graphical web interface and processes massive NGS datasets using decentralized processing by NIG supercomputers currently free of charge. The proposed pipeline consists of two analysis components: basic analysis for reference genome mapping and de novo assembly and subsequent high-level analysis of structural and functional annotations. Users may smoothly switch between the two components in the pipeline, facilitating web-based operations on a supercomputer for high-throughput data analysis. Moreover, public NGS reads of the DDBJ Sequence Read Archive located on the same supercomputer can be imported into the pipeline through the input of only an accession number. This proposed pipeline will facilitate research by utilizing unified analytical workflows applied to the NGS data. The DDBJ Pipeline is accessible at http://p.ddbj.nig.ac.jp/. 
The use of pyrosequencer-generated sequence-signatures to identify the influenza B-lineage and the subclade of the B/Yamataga-lineage viruses from currently circulating human influenza B viruses.	Influenza B viruses belong to two antigenically and genetically distinct lineages which co-circulate in varying proportions in many countries.
An alternative method to determine the 5' extremities of non-segmented, negative sense RNA viral genomes using positive replication intermediate 3' tailing: application to two members of the Paramyxoviridae family.	Determining the sequence of non-segmented, negative sense RNA viral genomes is far from routine and often requires the application of several techniques. In this study, an existing method used currently just for determination of the genomic 3' extremity was used to determine both the 3' and 5' sequence extremities of a Newcastle disease virus and an avian metapneumovirus. This was achieved with a single 3' nucleotide tailing reaction of both the genomic RNA and the full length, positive sense, antigenomic RNA, followed by a single reverse transcription reaction targeted to the common polynucleotide tails, and then individual PCRs specific for each extremity using PCR primers derived from the sequence of the RT primer or from neighbouring virus sequences known previously. For each virus the method was employed separately. Sequences from both viruses were in agreement with those reported previously for other paramyxoviruses, yet one extra base at the 3' and one extra base at the 5' were identified for the avian metapneumovirus. In this study, importantly, the newly determined extremities maintained the complementarity known to exist between the extremities of these viruses. The method was equally successful with both viruses and can be tailored easily to function with other non-segmented, negative sense viruses through minor modification of only the primer sequences. 
Maternity validation using sire-only BovineSNP50 BeadChip data.	Based on pairwise identity-by-state (IBS) distances and whole-genome SNP data, kinship was investigated in the Israeli Holstein population. A total of 789 bulls, including most of the artificial insemination sires in service since 1987, were genotyped by the BovineSNP50 BeadChip. This sample included up to five generations. For each bull-by-bull combination, three states are possible for each marker: no match, a single match and both alleles match. Summing over all markers, the 932598 IBS scores (three match frequencies*310866 bull-by-bull combinations) were visualized using three-dimensional coordinates that corresponded to the frequencies of the three possible states. Results were reduced to two dimensions using the transformations x'=0.7071(1+freq1-freq2) and y'=1.2247freq0. Bull-by-bull pairs were grouped according to their level of kinship, and canonical scores were calculated using discriminant analysis and the x' and y' features. Of the 474 pairs of recorded maternal grandsire-grandson with both individuals genotyped, the probability for 28 pairs to belong to this level of kinship was low (P<0.05), suggesting an error rate of around 3% per generation in pedigree determination. 
Next-generation sequencing in genetic hearing loss.	The advent of the $1000 genome has the potential to revolutionize the identification of genes and their mutations underlying genetic disorders. This is especially true for extremely heterogeneous Mendelian conditions such as deafness, where the mutation, and indeed the gene, may be private. The recent technological advances in target-enrichment methods and next generation sequencing offer a unique opportunity to break through the barriers of limitations imposed by gene arrays. These approaches now allow for the complete analysis of all known deafness-causing genes and will result in a new wave of discoveries of the remaining genes for Mendelian disorders. In this review, we describe commonly used genomic technologies as well as the application of these technologies to the genetic diagnosis of hearing loss (HL) and to the discovery of novel genes for syndromic and nonsyndromic HL. 
Error analysis of idealized nanopore sequencing.	This numerical study provides an error analysis of an idealized nanopore sequencing method in which ionic current measurements are used to sequence intact single-stranded DNA in the pore, while an enzyme controls DNA motion. Examples of systematic channel errors when more than one nucleotide affects the current amplitude are detailed, which if present will persist regardless of coverage. Absent such errors, random errors associated with tracking through homopolymer regions are shown to necessitate reading known sequences (Escherichia coli K-12) at least 140 times to achieve 99.99% accuracy (Q40). By exploiting the ability to reread each strand at each pore in an array, arbitrary positioning on an error rate versus throughput tradeoff curve is possible if systematic errors are absent, with throughput governed by the number of pores in the array and the enzyme turnover rate. 
ATHLATES: accurate typing of human leukocyte antigen through exome sequencing.	Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) typing at the allelic level can in theory be achieved using whole exome sequencing (exome-seq) data with no added cost but has been hindered by its computational challenge. We developed ATHLATES, a program that applies assembly, allele identification and allelic pair inference to short read sequences, and applied it to data from Illumina platforms. In 15 data sets with adequate coverage for HLA-A, -B, -C, -DRB1 and -DQB1 genes, ATHLATES correctly reported 74 out of 75 allelic pairs with an overall concordance rate of 99% compared with conventional typing. This novel approach should be broadly applicable to research and clinical laboratories. 
Familial rhabdoid tumour 'avant la lettre'--from pathology review to exome sequencing and back again.	Here we provide compelling evidence that next-generation sequencing will revolutionize diagnostics. We reappraised a case from 1991, published in 1993, describing the unique occurrence of an ovarian immature teratoma arising in a young woman and a clonally distinct intracerebral immature teratoma developing in her daughter. We conducted whole-exome sequencing on constitutional DNA from the mother and her daughter and identified a previously unreported nonsense mutation (c.3533G>A; p.Trp1178*) in the chromatin remodelling gene, SMARCA4, that was present in both individuals and was subject to nonsense-mediated decay. Tumour analysis by Sanger sequencing revealed a somatic SMARCA4 mutation in both the mother (c.2438+1G>T) and her daughter (c.3229C>T; p.Arg1077*), which are predicted to be truncating. As immature teratomas are classified as germ cell tumours, we performed a comprehensive mutation survey of 106 apparently sporadic germ cell tumours, but did not find any other clearly deleterious SMARCA4 mutations. Recently, inactivating mutations in SMARCA4 have been found in two cases of rhabdoid tumour predisposition syndrome type 2. In the light of these findings, renewed efforts to locate previously unobtainable tumour samples were successfully undertaken. Histopathological and immunohistochemical re-analysis of the daughter's tumour revealed that it was indeed a rhabdoid tumour (atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumour). In this context, the original pathology report of the mother's ovarian tumour was re-interpreted as describing a malignant rhabdoid tumour of the ovary. This report raises the question as to whether molecular genetic analysis should be included in tumour classification, alongside more traditional microscopy-based methods. The use of new sequencing technologies, particularly when applied to archived samples, will lead to many more 'molecular rediagnoses'. This is the earliest known case of rhabdoid tumour predisposition syndrome type 2 and the first described case with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, only discovered through an exome sequencing project.
Identifying genetic diversity of avirulence genes in Leptosphaeria maculans using whole genome sequencing.	Next generation sequencing technology allows rapid re-sequencing of individuals, as well as the discovery of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), for genomic diversity and evolutionary analyses. By sequencing two isolates of the fungal plant pathogen Leptosphaeria maculans, the causal agent of blackleg disease in Brassica crops, we have generated a resource of over 76 million sequence reads aligned to the reference genome. We identified over 21,000 SNPs with an overall SNP frequency of one SNP every 2,065bp. Sequence validation of a selection of these SNPs in additional isolates collected throughout Australia indicates a high degree of polymorphism in the Australian population. In preliminary phylogenetic analysis, isolates from Western Australia clustered together and those collected from Brassica juncea stubble were identical. These SNPs provide a novel marker resource to study the genetic diversity of this pathogen. We demonstrate that re-sequencing provides a method of validating previously characterised SNPs and analysing differences in important genes, such as the disease related avirulence genes of L. maculans. Understanding the genetic characteristics of this devastating pathogen is vital in developing long-term solutions to managing blackleg disease in Brassica crops. 
Simultaneous electrochemical determination of two analytes based on nuclease-assisted target recycling amplification.	In the present study, a method for simultaneous determination of two different DNAs is developed based on nuclease-assisted target recycling and nanoparticle amplification. The target recycling process is accomplished by taking advantage of the cleavage property of nicking endonuclease (NEase) for specific nucleotide sequences in duplex. In the presence of target DNA, the linker DNA in our detection system can hybridize with the target and be cleaved to form short fragments. Thus the target DNA is released and recognized by another linker DNA, activating the next round of cleavage reaction. On the other hand, two bio-barcode probes, a PbS nanoparticles (NPs)-DNA probe and a CdS NPs-DNA probe, are used for tracing two target DNAs to further amplify the detection signals. Based on a sensitive differential pulse anodic stripping voltammetry (DPASV) method for the simultaneous detection of Pb(2+) and Cd(2+) obtained by dissolving two probes, two different target DNAs are determined with high sensitivity and single-base mismatch selectivity. 
Genomic landscapes of Chinese hamster ovary cell lines as revealed by the Cricetulus griseus draft genome.	Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells, first isolated in 1957, are the preferred production host for many therapeutic proteins. Although genetic heterogeneity among CHO cell lines has been well documented, a systematic, nucleotide-resolution characterization of their genotypic differences has been stymied by the lack of a unifying genomic resource for CHO cells. Here we report a 2.4-Gb draft genome sequence of a female Chinese hamster, Cricetulus griseus, harboring 24,044 genes. We also resequenced and analyzed the genomes of six CHO cell lines from the CHO-K1, DG44 and CHO-S lineages. This analysis identified hamster genes missing in different CHO cell lines, and detected >3.7 million single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), 551,240 indels and 7,063 copy number variations. Many mutations are located in genes with functions relevant to bioprocessing, such as apoptosis. The details of this genetic diversity highlight the value of the hamster genome as the reference upon which CHO cells can be studied and engineered for protein production. 
Specificity and stability of the Acromyrmex-Pseudonocardia symbiosis.	The stability of mutualistic interactions is likely to be affected by the genetic diversity of symbionts that compete for the same functional niche. Fungus-growing (attine) ants have multiple complex symbioses and thus provide ample opportunities to address questions of symbiont specificity and diversity. Among the partners are Actinobacteria of the genus Pseudonocardia that are maintained on the ant cuticle to produce antibiotics, primarily against a fungal parasite of the mutualistic gardens. The symbiosis has been assumed to be a hallmark of evolutionary stability, but this notion has been challenged by culturing and sequencing data indicating an unpredictably high diversity. We used 454 pyrosequencing of 16S rRNA to estimate the diversity of the cuticular bacterial community of the leaf-cutting ant Acromyrmex echinatior and other fungus-growing ants from Gamboa, Panama. Both field and laboratory samples of the same colonies were collected, the latter after colonies had been kept under laboratory conditions for up to 10years. We show that bacterial communities are highly colony-specific and stable over time. The majority of colonies (25/26) had a single dominant Pseudonocardia strain, and only two strains were found in the Gamboa population across 17years, confirming an earlier study. The microbial community on newly hatched ants consisted almost exclusively of a single strain of Pseudonocardia while other Actinobacteria were identified on older, foraging ants in varying but usually much lower abundances. These findings are consistent with recent theory predicting that mixtures of antibiotic-producing bacteria can remain mutualistic when dominated by a single vertically transmitted and resource-demanding strain. 
Optimal assembly for high throughput shotgun sequencing.	We present a framework for the design of optimal assembly algorithms for shotgun sequencing under the criterion of complete reconstruction. We derive a lower bound on the read length and the coverage depth required for reconstruction in terms of the repeat statistics of the genome. Building on earlier works, we design a de Brujin graph based assembly algorithm which can achieve very close to the lower bound for repeat statistics of a wide range of sequenced genomes, including the GAGE datasets. The results are based on a set of necessary and sufficient conditions on the DNA sequence and the reads for reconstruction. The conditions can be viewed as the shotgun sequencing analogue of Ukkonen-Pevzner's necessary and sufficient conditions for Sequencing by Hybridization. 
Investigation of mtDNA control region sequences in an Egyptian population sample.	The sequences of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) control region were investigated in 101 unrelated individuals living in the northern region of Nile delta (Gharbia, N=55 and Kafrelsheikh, N=46). DNA was extracted from blood stained filter papers or buccal swabs. HV1, HV2 and HV3 were PCR amplified and sequenced; the resulted sequences were aligned and compared with revised Cambridge sequence (rCRS). The results revealed presence of total 93 different haplotypes, 86 of them are unique and 7 are shared haplotypes, the most common haplotype, was observed with a frequency, 2.97% of population sample. High mtDNA diversity was observed with genetic diversity and power of discrimination, 0.9982 and 0.9883, respectively. In this dataset the west Eurasian haplogroups predominated over the African haplogroups. The results would be useful for forensic examinations and human genetic studies. 
Bisulfite sequencing of cloned alleles.	Bisulfite sequencing of cloned alleles is a widely used method for capturing the methylation profiles of single alleles. This method combines PCR amplification of the bisulfite-modified DNA with the subcloning of the amplicons into plasmids followed by transformation into bacteria and plating on selective media. The resulting colony forming units are each comprised of bacterial clones containing the same plasmid reflecting a single allele in the original PCR reaction. Following whole cell PCR and sequencing, the results provide highly detailed information about the status of each CG site within an allele. Sequencing of a large number of individual clones can provide quantitative information, assuming unbiased PCR, subcloning and clone selection. The proportion of methylated cytosine at a particular position within the sequenced alleles can be determined by counting the number of alleles showing methylation at the position of interest and dividing this by the total number of clones sequenced. 
Bisulfite pyrosequencing.	Bisulfite pyrosequencing is a sequencing-by-synthesis method used to quantitatively determine the methylation of individual CG cytosines from PCR amplicons of a region up to 115 bases in length. The procedure relies on prior bisulfite conversion of all potentially methylated CG cytosines to either cytosine (methylated) or thymine (unmethylated) and involves the stepwise incorporation of deoxynucleotide triphosphates into the growing strand of nascent DNA. The incorporation of these dNTPs results in the proportional release of pyrophosphate, which is converted into ATP to aid in a subsequent conversion of luciferin to oxyluciferin. The amount of light released in the process is proportional to the number of nucleotides incorporated, and the procedure provides a quantitative portrait of the methylation profile for the amplicon in question. 
Basic DNA electrophoresis in molecular cloning: a comprehensive guide for beginners.	Presented here is a complete molecular cloning protocol consisting of a number of separate but interconnected methods such as preparation of E. coli competent cells; in vitro DNA digestion and ligation; PCR; DNA agarose gel electrophoresis and gel extraction; and screening transformants by colony PCR, analytical restriction digests, and sequencing. The method is described in a lot of details so that it can be easily followed by those with very little relevant knowledge and skills. It also contains many tips that even experienced researchers may find useful. 
Sequencing-based variant detection in the polyploid crop oilseed rape.	The detection and exploitation of genetic variation underpins crop improvement. However, the polyploid nature of the genomes of many of our most important crops represents a barrier, particularly for the analysis of variation within genes. To overcome this, we aimed to develop methodologies based on amplicon sequencing that involve the incorporation of barcoded amplification tags (BATs) into PCR products.
Bridging the genotyping gap: using genotyping by sequencing (GBS) to add high-density SNP markers and new value to traditional bi-parental mapping and breeding populations.	Genotyping by sequencing (GBS) is the latest application of next-generation sequencing protocols for the purposes of discovering and genotyping SNPs in a variety of crop species and populations. Unlike other high-density genotyping technologies which have mainly been applied to general interest "reference" genomes, the low cost of GBS makes it an attractive means of saturating mapping and breeding populations with a high density of SNP markers. One barrier to the widespread use of GBS has been the difficulty of the bioinformatics analysis as the approach is accompanied by a high number of erroneous SNP calls which are not easily diagnosed or corrected. In this study, we use a 384-plex GBS protocol to add 30,984 markers to an indica (IR64)japonica (Azucena) mapping population consisting of 176 recombinant inbred lines of rice (Oryza sativa) and we release our imputation and error correction pipeline to address initial GBS data sparsity and error, and streamline the process of adding SNPs to RIL populations. Using the final imputed and corrected dataset of 30,984 markers, we were able to map recombination hot and cold spots and regions of segregation distortion across the genome with a high degree of accuracy, thus identifying regions of the genome containing putative sterility loci. We mapped QTL for leaf width and aluminum tolerance, and were able to identify additional QTL for both phenotypes when using the full set of 30,984 SNPs that were not identified using a subset of only 1,464 SNPs, including a previously unreported QTL for aluminum tolerance located directly within a recombination hotspot on chromosome 1. These results suggest that adding a high density of SNP markers to a mapping or breeding population through GBS has a great value for numerous applications in rice breeding and genetics research. 
Reverse genetics in rice using Tos17.	Transposon of Oryza sativa 17 (Tos17), a Ty1-Copia Class I retroelement, is one of the few active retroelements identified in rice, the main cereal crop of human consumption and the model genome for cereals. Tos17 exists in two copies in the standard Nipponbare japonica genome (n = 12 and 379 Mb). Tos17 copies are inactive in the plant grown under normal conditions. However, the copy located on chromosome 7 can be activated upon tissue culture. Plants regenerated from 3- and 5-month-old tissue cultures harbor, respectively, an average of 3.5 and 8 newly transposed copies that are stably inserted at new positions in the genome. Due to its favorable features, Tos17 has been extensively used for insertion mutagenesis of the model genome and 31,403 sequence indexed inserts harbored by regenerants/T-DNA plants are available in the databases. The corresponding seed stocks can be ordered from the laboratories which generated them. Both forward genetics and reverse genetics approaches using these lines have allowed the deciphering of gene function in rice. We report here two protocols for ascertaining the presence of a Tos17 insertion in a gene of interest among R2/T2 seeds received from Tos17 mutant stock centers: The first protocol is PCR-based and allows the identification of azygous, heterozygous and homozygous plants among progenies segregating the insertion. The second protocol is based on DNA blot analysis and can be used to identify homozygous plants carrying the Tos17 copy responsible for gene disruption while cleaning the mutant background from other unwitting mutagen inserts. 
Massive indexed parallel identification of transposon flanking sequences.	The large scale sequencing of insertion element flanking sequences has revolutionized reverse genetics in plant research: Insertion mutants can now simply be identified in silico by BLAST searching the resulting flanking sequence databases. The development of next-generation sequencing technologies has further facilitated the creation of flanking sequence collections derived from entire mutant populations. Here we describe a highly efficient and widely applicable method that we developed to amplify, sequence, and identify dTph1 transposon flanking sequences from a library of 1000 Petunia W138 individuals simultaneously. 
Use of Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) technologies for the genome-wide detection of transposition.	Plant transposable elements are ubiquitous in eukaryotes. Their propensity to densely populate the genomes of many plants and animal species has put them in the focus of both structural and functional genomics. Although a number of bioinformatic software have been recently developed for the annotation of TEs in sequenced genomes, there are very few computational tools strictly dedicated to the identification of active TEs using genome-wide approaches. In this paper, we describe SearchTESV, a pipeline that we have developed to detect Transposable Elements-associated structural variants (TEASVs) using Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) technologies. 
A graph-theoretical approach to the selection of the minimum tiling path from a physical map.	The problem of computing the minimum tiling path (MTP) from a set of clones arranged in a physical map is a cornerstone of hierarchical (clone-by-clone) genome sequencing projects. We formulate this problem in a graph theoretical framework, and then solve by a combination of minimum hitting set and minimum spanning tree algorithms. The tool implementing this strategy, called FMTP, shows improved performance compared to the widely used software FPC. When we execute FMTP and FPC on the same physical map, the MTP produced by FMTP covers a higher portion of the genome, and uses a smaller number of clones. For instance, on the rice genome the MTP produced by our tool would reduce by about 11 percent the cost of a clone-by-clone sequencing project. Source code, benchmark data sets, and documentation of FMTP are freely available at >http://code.google.com/p/fingerprint-based-minimal-tiling-path/ under MIT license. 
NGSPE: A pipeline for end-to-end analysis of DNA sequencing data and comparison between different platforms.	We present NGSPE, a pipeline for variation discovery and genotyping of pair-ended Illumina next generation sequencing (NGS) data (http://ngspeanalysis.sourceforge.net/). This pipeline not only describes a set of sequential analytical steps, such as short reads alignment, genotype calling and functional variation annotation that can be conducted using open-source software tools, but also provides users a set of scripts to install the dependent software and resources and implement the pipeline on their data. A sample summary report including the concordance rate between data generated by this pipeline and different resources as well as the comparison between replication samples of two commercial platforms from Illumina and Complete Genomics is also provided. Furthermore, some of the mutations identified by the pipeline were verified using Sanger sequencing. 
Bacterial strain typing.	Over the course of the past several decades, rapid advancements in molecular technologies have revolutionized the practice of public health microbiology, and have fundamentally changed the nature, accuracy, and timeliness of laboratory data for outbreak investigation and response. Whole-genome sequencing, in particular, is becoming an increasingly feasible and cost-effective approach for near real-time high-resolution strain typing, genomic characterization, and comparative analyses. This review discusses the current state of the art in bacterial strain typing for outbreak investigation and infectious disease surveillance, and the impact of emerging genomic technologies on the field of public health microbiology. 
Development of molecular resources for an intertidal clam, Sinonovacula constricta, using 454 transcriptome sequencing.	The razor clam Sinonovacula constricta is a benthic intertidal bivalve species with important commercial value. Despite its economic importance, knowledge of its transcriptome is scarce. Next generation sequencing technologies offer rapid and efficient tools for generating large numbers of sequences, which can be used to characterize the transcriptome, to develop effective molecular markers and to identify genes associated with growth, a key breeding trait.
Full screening and accurate subtyping of HLA-A*02 alleles through group-specific amplification and mono-allelic sequencing.	HLA-A*02 is the most prevalent and polymorphic major histocompatibility complex (MHC) allele family in humans. Functional differences have been revealed among subtypes, demanding further subtyping of HLA-A*02 in basic and clinical settings. However, the fast growing polymorphisms render traditional primer- or probe-based typing methods impractical and result in increasing ambiguities in direct sequence-based typing. In this study, we combined group-specific amplification and mono-allelic sequencing to design and validate a simple scheme for the complete screening and accurate subtyping of all 540 reported HLA-A*02 alleles. This scheme could be performed in routine labs to facilitate studies with an interest in HLA-A*02. 
Determination of genomic copy number alteration emphasizing a restriction site-based strategy of genome re-sequencing.	Copy number abbreviation (CNA) is one type of genomic aberration that is often induced by genome instability and is associated with diseases such as cancer. Determination of the genome-wide CNA profile is an important step in identifying the underlying mutation mechanisms. Genomic data based on next-generation sequencing technology are particularly suitable for determination of high-quality CNA profile. Now is an important time to reevaluate the use of sequencing techniques for CNA analysis, especially with the rapid growth of the different targeted genome and whole-genome sequencing strategies.
Consed: a graphical editor for next-generation sequencing.	The rapid growth of DNA sequencing throughput in recent years implies that graphical interfaces for viewing and correcting errors must now handle large numbers of reads, efficiently pinpoint regions of interest and automate as many tasks as possible. We have adapted consed to reflect this. To allow full-feature editing of large datasets while keeping memory requirements low, we developed a viewer, bamScape, that reads billion-read BAM files, identifies and displays problem areas for user review and launches the consed graphical editor on user-selected regions, allowing, in addition to longstanding consed capabilities such as assembly editing, a variety of new features including direct editing of the reference sequence, variant and error detection, display of annotation tracks and the ability to simultaneously process a group of reads. Many batch processing capabilities have been added.
PyroHMMvar: a sensitive and accurate method to call short indels and SNPs for Ion Torrent and 454 data.	The identification of short insertions and deletions (indels) and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) from Ion Torrent and 454 reads is a challenging problem, essentially because these techniques are prone to sequence erroneously at homopolymers and can, therefore, raise indels in reads. Most of the existing mapping programs do not model homopolymer errors when aligning reads against the reference. The resulting alignments will then contain various kinds of mismatches and indels that confound the accurate determination of variant loci and alleles.
A statistical variant calling approach from pedigree information and local haplotyping with phase informative reads.	Variant calling from genome-wide sequencing data is essential for the analysis of disease-causing mutations and elucidation of disease mechanisms. However, variant calling in low coverage regions is difficult due to sequence read errors and mapping errors. Hence, variant calling approaches that are robust to low coverage data are demanded.
INSECT: IN-silico SEarch for Co-occurring Transcription factors.	Transcriptional regulation occurs through the concerted actions of multiple transcription factors (TFs) that bind cooperatively to cis-regulatory modules (CRMs) of genes. These CRMs usually contain a variable number of transcription factor-binding sites (TFBSs) involved in related cellular and physiological processes. Chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by sequencing (ChIP-seq) has been effective in detecting TFBSs and nucleosome location to identify potential CRMs in genome-wide studies. Although several attempts were previously reported to predict the potential binding of TFs at TFBSs within CRMs by comparing different ChIP-seq data, these have been hampered by excessive background, usually emerging as a consequence of experimental conditions. To understand these complex regulatory circuits, it would be helpful to have reliable and updated user-friendly tools to assist in the identification of TFBSs and CRMs for gene(s) of interest.
Targeted resequencing for analysis of clonal composition of recurrent gene mutations in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia.	Recurrent gene mutations contribute to the pathogenesis of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). We developed a next-generation sequencing (NGS) platform to determine the genetic profile, intratumoural heterogeneity, and clonal structure of two independent CLL cohorts. TP53, SF3B1, and NOTCH1 were most frequently mutated (16.3%, 16.9%, 10.7%). We found evidence for subclonal mutations in 67.5% of CLL cases with mutations of cancer consensus genes. We observed selection of subclones and found initial evidence for convergent mutations in CLL. Our data suggest that assessment of (sub)clonal structure may need to be integrated into analysis of the mutational profile in CLL.
Rapid transposon liquid enrichment sequencing (TnLE-seq) for gene fitness evaluation in underdeveloped bacterial systems.	Whole-genome fitness analysis in microbes that uses saturating transposon mutagenesis combined with massively parallel sequencing (Tn-seq) is providing a measure of the contribution of each gene to a given growth condition. With this technique, gene fitness profiles and essential genes are discovered by simultaneous analyses of whether the absence of each gene product alters the growth kinetics of the bacterium. Here we modify the standard Tn-seq procedure to simplify and shorten the process by including delivery of the transposon through conjugation and liquid culture enrichment of the mutant pool, creating transposon liquid enrichment sequencing (TnLE-seq). To illustrate the success of these modifications and the robustness of the procedure, analyses of gene fitness of two cultures of the strictly anaerobic bacterium Desulfovibrio vulgaris Hildenborough were performed, with growth on lactate as the electron donor and sulfate as the electron acceptor. These data demonstrate reproducibility and provide a base condition for analysis of fitness changes in deletion mutants and in various growth conditions. The procedural modifications will facilitate the application of this powerful genetic analysis to microbes lacking a facile genetic system. Pilot studies produced 2.510(5) and 3.410(5) unique insertion mutants in the anaerobe Desulfovibrio vulgaris Hildenborough grown under typical laboratory conditions in rich medium. These analyses provided two similar high-resolution maps of gene fitness across the genome, and the method was also applied to growth in minimal medium. These results were also compared to the coverage obtained with a ca. 13,000-member cataloged transposon library constructed by sequencing transposon insertion sites in individual mutants.
Flow sorting and sequencing meadow fescue chromosome 4F.	The analysis of large genomes is hampered by a high proportion of repetitive DNA, which makes the assembly of short sequence reads difficult. This is also the case in meadow fescue (Festuca pratensis), which is known for good abiotic stress resistance and has been used in intergeneric hybridization with ryegrasses (Lolium spp.) to produce Festulolium cultivars. In this work, we describe a new approach to analyze the large genome of meadow fescue, which involves the reduction of sample complexity without compromising information content. This is achieved by dissecting the genome to smaller parts: individual chromosomes and groups of chromosomes. As the first step, we flow sorted chromosome 4F and sequenced it by Illumina with approximately 50 coverage. This provided, to our knowledge, the first insight into the composition of the fescue genome, enabled the construction of the virtual gene order of the chromosome, and facilitated detailed comparative analysis with the sequenced genomes of rice (Oryza sativa), Brachypodium distachyon, sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), and barley (Hordeum vulgare). Using GenomeZipper, we were able to confirm the collinearity of chromosome 4F with barley chromosome 4H and the long arm of chromosome 5H. Several new tandem repeats were identified and physically mapped using fluorescence in situ hybridization. They were found as robust cytogenetic markers for karyotyping of meadow fescue and ryegrass species and their hybrids. The ability to purify chromosome 4F opens the way for more efficient analysis of genomic loci on this chromosome underlying important traits, including freezing tolerance. Our results confirm that next-generation sequencing of flow-sorted chromosomes enables an overview of chromosome structure and evolution at a resolution never achieved before. 
Allele frequencies of 37 short tandem repeat loci in a Japanese population.	Allele frequencies for 37 STR autosomal loci (D1S1656, D2S1338, D2S1360, D2S441, D3S1358, D3S1744, D4S2366, D5S2500, D5S818, D6S474, D7S1517, D7S820, D8S1132, D8S1179, D10S1248, D10S2325, D12S391, D13S317, D16S539, D18S51, D19S433, D21S11, D21S2055, D22S1045, CSF1PO, F13A01, F13B, FESFPS, FGA, LPL, Penta C, Penta D, Penta E, SE33, TH01, TPOX, vWA) were obtained from a sample of 175 unrelated individuals in a Japanese population. 
Next-generation sequencing of pharmacogenes: a critical analysis focusing on schizophrenia treatment.	Because of the unmet needs of current pharmacotherapy for schizophrenia, antipsychotic pharmacogenetic research is of utmost importance. However, to date, few clinically applicable antipsychotic pharmacogenomic alleles have been identified. Nonetheless, next-generation sequencing technologies are expected to aid in the identification of clinically significant variants for this complex phenotype. The aim of this study was therefore to critically examine the ability of next-generation sequencing technologies to reliably detect variation present in pharmacogenes.
Discriminative motif analysis of high-throughput dataset.	High-throughput ChIP-seq studies typically identify thousands of peaks for a single transcription factor (TF). It is common for traditional motif discovery tools to predict motifs that are statistically significant against a nave background distribution but are of questionable biological relevance.
Identification of novel viruses using VirusHunter--an automated data analysis pipeline.	Quick and accurate identification of microbial pathogens is essential for both diagnosis and response to emerging infectious diseases. The advent of next-generation sequencing technology offers an unprecedented platform for rapid sequencing-based identification of novel viruses. We have developed a customized bioinformatics data analysis pipeline, VirusHunter, for the analysis of Roche/454 and other long read Next generation sequencing platform data. To illustrate the utility of VirusHunter, we performed Roche/454 GS FLX titanium sequencing on two unclassified virus isolates from the World Reference Center for Emerging Viruses and Arboviruses (WRCEVA). VirusHunter identified sequences derived from a novel bunyavirus and a novel reovirus in the two samples respectively. Further sequence analysis demonstrated that the viruses were novel members of the Phlebovirus and Orbivirus genera. Both Phlebovirus and Orbivirus genera include many economic important viruses or serious human pathogens. 
Introduction to human genome sequencing in diagnostics]	The increasing efficiency of genetic analyzers together with the decreasing price of DNA sequencing per single nucleotide read, makes the method of individual genomes sequencing more available for diagnostic laboratories. Nowadays genome sequencing applications are predominantly used for research purposes but in nearest future we will be using them in routine patient evaluation as we are using analytic approaches based on Sanger method now. New generation sequencing is a tool which gives the researchers excellent possibilities for the realization of personalized medicine assumptions. However, before we will be able to make full use of it, there are still some questions to be answered, as for example who should perform the analysis, interpret results and finally who should be responsible for data management.
Genetic testing in the fetus and child]	New key technologies such as array-based molecular karyotyping and high throughput sequencing are currently introduced in pre- and postnatal diagnostic testing. These greatly improved genomic testing approaches are beginning to fundamentally change diagnostic strategies in the clinical setting. Molecular karyotyping in the fetus is now routinely performed in high risk situations or on parental request. It will replace the conventional microscopic approach in the near future. Non-invasive prenatal testing to exclude common trisomies is probably the most significant recent achievement and has the potential to dramatically reduce invasive testing. Multiple congenital malformations and intellectual disability (ID) occur in up to 3 % of the general population. A correct diagnosis at an early age is important for clinical management of the patients and for counselling the families with regard to recurrence risk. Conventional karyotyping has been replaced by molecular karyotyping (microarray analysis, Array-CGH), increasing the diagnostic yield up to 15 - 20 % in this population. This approach can be challenging with regard to interpretation of copy number variants of uncertain significance or variants with reduced penetrance. If the clinical assessment leads to the suspicion of a specific syndrome or a leading symptom like epilepsy or microcephaly is present, genetic testing might be directed towards single-gene analysis. However, increasing knowledge indicates that many of these conditions are genetically heterogeneous. The availability of next-generation sequencing techniques has led to the implementation of testing panels in the diagnostic setting, by which multiple genes are analyzed in parallel. This approach allows for increased diagnostic yield in monogenic disorders and defining of more detailed genoptype-phenotype correlations. In addition, whole-exome or whole-genome sequencing has led to the identification of the genetic basis of many known genetic disorders and to the identification and delineation of novel disorders thus allowing a diagnosis in more patients. Fulfilling the potential of the increasing number of options for genetic testing for accurate diagnosis requires close collaboration between clinical geneticists and paediatricians. 
In transition: primate genomics at a time of rapid change.	The field of nonhuman primate genomics is undergoing rapid change and making impressive progress. Exploiting new technologies for DNA sequencing, researchers have generated new whole-genome sequence assemblies for multiple primate species over the past 6 years. In addition, investigations of within-species genetic variation, gene expression and RNA sequences, conservation of non-protein-coding regions of the genome, and other aspects of comparative genomics are moving at an accelerating speed. This progress is opening a wide array of new research opportunities in the analysis of comparative primate genome content and evolution. It also creates new possibilities for the use of nonhuman primates as model organisms in biomedical research. This transition, based on both new technology and the new information being generated in regard to human genetics, provides an important justification for reevaluating the research goals, strategies, and study designs used in primate genetics and genomics. 
Preamplification procedure for the analysis of ancient DNA samples.	In ancient DNA studies the low amount of endogenous DNA represents a limiting factor that often hampers the result achievement. In this study we extracted the DNA from nine human skeletal remains of different ages found in the Byzantine cemetery of Abdera Halkidiki and in the medieval cemetery of St. Spiridion in Rhodes (Greece). Real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) was used to detect in the extracts the presence of PCR inhibitors and to estimate the DNA content. As mitochondrial DNA was detected in all samples, amplification of nuclear targets, as amelogenin and the polymorphism M470V of the transmembrane conductance regulator gene, yielded positive results in one case only. In an effort to improve amplification success, we applied, for the first time in ancient DNA, a preamplification strategy based on TaqMan PreAmp Master Mix. A comparison between results obtained from nonpreamplified and preamplified samples is reported. Our data, even if preliminary, show that the TaqMan PreAmp procedure may improve the sensitivity of qPCR analysis. 
Forward genetic approaches in Chlamydia trachomatis.	Chlamydia trachomatis, the etiological agent of sexually transmitted diseases and ocular infections, remains poorly characterized due to its intractability to experimental transformation with recombinant DNA. We developed an approach to perform genetic analysis in C. trachomatis despite the lack of molecular genetic tools. Our method involves: i.) chemical mutagenesis to rapidly generate comprehensive libraries of genetically-defined mutants with distinct phenotypes; ii.) whole-genome sequencing (WGS) to map the underlying genetic lesions and to find associations between mutated gene(s) and a common phenotype; iii.) generation of recombinant strains through co-infection of mammalian cells with mutant and wild type bacteria. Accordingly, we were able to establish causal relationships between genotypes and phenotypes. The coupling of chemically-induced gene variation and WGS to establish correlative genotype-phenotype associations should be broadly applicable to the large list of medically and environmentally important microorganisms currently intractable to genetic analysis.
A MATLAB-based tool for accurate detection of perfect overlapping and nested inverted repeats in DNA sequences.	Palindromic sequences, or inverted repeats (IRs), in DNA sequences involve important biological processes such as DNA-protein binding, DNA replication and DNA transposition. Development of bioinformatics tools that are capable of accurately detecting perfect IRs can enable genome-wide studies of IR patterns in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Different from conventional string-comparison approaches, we propose a novel algorithm that uses a cumulative score system based on a prime number representation of nucleotide bases. We then implemented this algorithm as a MATLAB-based program for perfect IR detection. In comparison with other existing tools, our program demonstrates a high accuracy in detecting nested and overlapping IRs.
PeaKDEck: a kernel density estimator-based peak calling program for DNaseI-seq data.	Hypersensitivity to DNaseI digestion is a hallmark of open chromatin, and DNaseI-seq allows the genome-wide identification of regions of open chromatin. Interpreting these data is challenging, largely because of inherent variation in signal-to-noise ratio between datasets. We have developed PeaKDEck, a peak calling program that distinguishes signal from noise by randomly sampling read densities and using kernel density estimation to generate a dataset-specific probability distribution of random background signal. PeaKDEck uses this probability distribution to select an appropriate read density threshold for peak calling in each dataset. We benchmark PeaKDEck using published ENCODE DNaseI-seq data and other peak calling programs, and demonstrate superior performance in low signal-to-noise ratio datasets.
BlindCall: ultra-fast base-calling of high-throughput sequencing data by blind deconvolution.	Base-calling of sequencing data produced by high-throughput sequencing platforms is a fundamental process in current bioinformatics analysis. However, existing third-party probabilistic or machine-learning methods that significantly improve the accuracy of base-calls on these platforms are impractical for production use due to their computational inefficiency.
Efficient haplotype matching and storage using the positional Burrows-Wheeler transform (PBWT).	Over the last few years, methods based on suffix arrays using the Burrows-Wheeler Transform have been widely used for DNA sequence read matching and assembly. These provide very fast search algorithms, linear in the search pattern size, on a highly compressible representation of the dataset being searched. Meanwhile, algorithmic development for genotype data has concentrated on statistical methods for phasing and imputation, based on probabilistic matching to hidden Markov model representations of the reference data, which while powerful are much less computationally efficient. Here a theory of haplotype matching using suffix array ideas is developed, which should scale too much larger datasets than those currently handled by genotype algorithms.
Evolutionary footprint of coevolving positions in genes.	The analysis of molecular coevolution provides information on the potential functional and structural implication of positions along DNA sequences, and several methods are available to identify coevolving positions using probabilistic or combinatorial approaches. The specific nucleotide or amino acid profile associated with the coevolution process is, however, not estimated, but only known profiles, such as the Watson-Crick constraint, are usually considered a priori in current measures of coevolution.
Exploring genome characteristics and sequence quality without a reference.	The de novo assembly of large, complex genomes is a significant challenge with currently available DNA sequencing technology. While many de novo assembly software packages are available, comparatively little attention has been paid to assisting the user with the assembly.
High resolution non-invasive detection of a fetal microdeletion using the GCREM algorithm.	The non-invasive prenatal detection of fetal microdeletions becomes increasingly challenging as the size of the mutation decreases, with current practical lower limits in the range of a few megabases. Our goals were to explore the lower limits of microdeletion size detection via non-invasive prenatal tests using Minimally Invasive Karyotyping (MINK) and introduce/evaluate a novel statistical approach we recently developed called the GC Content Random Effect Model (GCREM).
Viral genome phylogeny based on Lempel-Ziv complexity and Hausdorff distance.	In this paper, we develop a novel method to study the viral genome phylogeny. We apply Lempel-Ziv complexity to define the distance between two nucleic acid sequences. Then, based on this distance we use the Hausdorff distance (HD) and a modified Hausdorff distance (MHD) to make the phylogenetic analysis for multi-segmented viral genomes. The results show the MHD can provide more accurate phylogenetic relationship. Our method can have global comparison of all multi-segmented genomes simultaneously, that is, we treat the multi-segmented viral genome as an entirety to make the comparative analysis. Our method is not affected by the number or order of segments, and each segment can make contribution for the phylogeny of whole genomes. We have analyzed several groups of real multi-segmented genomes from different viral families. The results show that our method will provide a new powerful tool for studying the classification of viral genomes and their phylogenetic relationships. 
Empirical assessment of RAD sequencing for interspecific phylogeny.	Next-generation sequencing opened up new possibilities in phylogenetics; however, choosing an appropriate method of sample preparation remains challenging. Here, we demonstrate that restriction-site-associated DNA sequencing (RAD-seq) generates useful data for phylogenomics. Analysis of our RAD library using current bioinformatic and phylogenetic tools produced 400 more sites than our Sanger approach (2,262,825 nt/species), fully resolving relationships between 18 species of ground beetles (divergences up to 17 My). This suggests that RAD-seq is promising to infer phylogeny of eukaryotic species, though potential biases need to be evaluated and new methodologies developed to take full advantage of such data. 
Evaluation of MolYsis Complete5 DNA extraction method for detecting Staphylococcus aureus DNA from whole blood in a sepsis model using PCR/pyrosequencing.	Bacterial bloodstream infections (BSI) and ensuing sepsis are important causes of morbidity and mortality. Early diagnosis and rapid treatment with appropriate antibiotics are vital for improving outcome. Nucleic acid amplification of bacteria directly from whole blood has the potential of providing a faster means of diagnosing BSI than automated blood culture. However, effective DNA extraction of commonly low levels of bacterial target from whole blood is critical for this approach to be successful. This study compared the Molzyme MolYsis Complete5 DNA extraction method to a previously described organic bead-based method for use with whole blood. A well-characterized Staphylococcus aureus-induced pneumonia model of sepsis in canines was used to provide clinically relevant whole blood samples. DNA extracts were assessed for purity and concentration and analyzed for bacterial rRNA gene targets using PCR and sequence-based identification. Both extraction methods yielded relatively pure DNA with median A260/280 absorbance ratios of 1.71 (MolYsis) and 1.97 (bead-based). The organic bead-based extraction method yielded significantly higher average DNA concentrations (P<0.05) at each time point throughout the experiment, closely correlating with changes observed in white blood cell (WBC) concentrations during this same time period, while DNA concentrations of the MolYsis extracts closely mirrored quantitative blood culture results. Overall, S. aureus DNA was detected from whole blood samples in 70.7% (58/82) of MolYsis DNA extracts, and in 59.8% (49/82) of organic bead-based extracts, with peak detection rates seen at 48h for both MolYsis (87.0%) and organic bead-based (82.6%) methods. In summary, the MolYsis Complete5 DNA extraction kit proved to be the more effective method for isolating bacterial DNA directly from extracts made from whole blood. 
Development and performance of a comprehensive targeted sequencing assay for pan-ethnic screening of carrier status.	Identifying individuals as carriers of severe disease traits enables informed decision making about reproductive options. Although carrier screening has traditionally been based on ethnicity, the increasing ethnic admixture in the general population argues for the need for pan-ethnic carrier screening assays. Highly multiplexed mutation panels allow for rapid and efficient testing of hundreds of mutations concurrently. We report the development of the Pan-Ethnic Carrier Screening assay, a targeted sequencing assay for routine screening that simultaneously detects 461 common mutations in 91 different genes underlying severe, early-onset monogenic disorders. Mutation selection was aided by the use of an extensive mutation database from a clinical laboratory with expertise in newborn screening and lysosomal storage disease testing. The assay is based on the Affymetrix GeneChip microarray platform but generates genomic DNA sequence as the output. Analytical sensitivity and specificity, using genomic DNA from archived control cultures and from clinical specimens, was found to be >99% for all mutation types. This targeted sequencing assay has advantages over multiplex PCR and next-generation sequencing assays, including accuracy of mutation detection over a range of mutation types and ease of analysis and reporting of results.
Separate evolution of virulent newcastle disease viruses from Mexico and Central America.	An outbreak of Newcastle disease (ND) in poultry was reported in Belize in 2008. The characteristics of three virulent Newcastle disease virus (NDV) isolates from this outbreak (NDV-Belize-3/08, NDV-Belize-4/08, and NDV-Belize-12/08) were assessed by genomic analysis and by clinicopathological characterization in specific-pathogen-free (SPF) chickens. The results showed that all three strains belong to NDV genotype V and are virulent, as assessed by the intracerebral pathogenicity index and the polybasic amino acid sequence at the fusion protein cleavage site. In 4-week-old SPF chickens, NDV-Belize-3/08 behaved as a typical velogenic viscerotropic NDV strain, causing severe necrohemorrhagic lesions in the lymphoid organs, with systemic virus distribution. Phylogenetic analysis of multiple NDV genotype V representatives revealed that genotype V can be divided into three subgenotypes, namely, Va, Vb, and Vc, and that all tested Belizean isolates belong to subgenotype Vb. Furthermore, these isolates are nearly identical to a 2007 isolate from Honduras and appear to have evolved separately from other contemporary viruses circulating in Mexico, clustering into a new clade within NDV subgenotype Vb. 
Identifying Neisseria species by use of the 50S ribosomal protein L6 (rplF) gene.	The comparison of 16S rRNA gene sequences is widely used to differentiate bacteria; however, this gene can lack resolution among closely related but distinct members of the same genus. This is a problem in clinical situations in those genera, such as Neisseria, where some species are associated with disease while others are not. Here, we identified and validated an alternative genetic target common to all Neisseria species which can be readily sequenced to provide an assay that rapidly and accurately discriminates among members of the genus. Ribosomal multilocus sequence typing (rMLST) using ribosomal protein genes has been shown to unambiguously identify these bacteria. The PubMLST Neisseria database (http://pubmlst.org/neisseria/) was queried to extract the 53 ribosomal protein gene sequences from 44 genomes from diverse species. Phylogenies reconstructed from these genes were examined, and a single 413-bp fragment of the 50S ribosomal protein L6 (rplF) gene was identified which produced a phylogeny that was congruent with the phylogeny reconstructed from concatenated ribosomal protein genes. Primers that enabled the amplification and direct sequencing of the rplF gene fragment were designed to validate the assay in vitro and in silico. Allele sequences were defined for the gene fragment, associated with particular species names, and stored on the PubMLST Neisseria database, providing a curated electronic resource. This approach provides an alternative to 16S rRNA gene sequencing, which can be readily replicated for other organisms for which more resolution is required, and it has potential applications in high-resolution metagenomic studies. 
Ancient whole genome enrichment using baits built from modern DNA.	We report metrics from complete genome capture of nuclear DNA from extinct mammoths using biotinylated RNAs transcribed from an Asian elephant DNA extract. Enrichment of the nuclear genome ranged from 1.06- to 18.65-fold, to an apparent maximum threshold of 80% on-target. This projects an order of magnitude less costly complete genome sequencing from long-dead organisms, even when a reference genome is unavailable for bait design. 
Rapid molecular detection of inducible macrolide resistance in Mycobacterium chelonae and M. abscessus strains: a replacement for 14-day susceptibility testing?	The erm(41) gene causes inducible macrolide resistance in Mycobacterium abscessus but not Mycobacterium chelonae. erm(41) sequencing of 285 M. abscessus and 45 M. chelonae isolates was compared to 14-day susceptibility; agreement percentages were 98.9% and 100%, respectively. Extended incubation may not be necessary for M. chelonae, and the erm(41) genotype is a useful adjunct for M. abscessus. 
New routes to targeted therapy of intrahepatic cholangiocarcinomas revealed by next-generation sequencing.	Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) is a subtype of primary liver cancer that is rarely curable by surgery and is rapidly increasing in incidence. Relapsed ICC has a poor prognosis, and current systemic nontargeted therapies are commonly extrapolated from those used in other gastrointestinal malignancies. We hypothesized that genomic profiling of clinical ICC samples would identify genomic alterations that are linked to targeted therapies and that could facilitate a personalized approach to therapy.
Real-time whole-genome sequencing for routine typing, surveillance, and outbreak detection of verotoxigenic Escherichia coli.	Fast and accurate identification and typing of pathogens are essential for effective surveillance and outbreak detection. The current routine procedure is based on a variety of techniques, making the procedure laborious, time-consuming, and expensive. With whole-genome sequencing (WGS) becoming cheaper, it has huge potential in both diagnostics and routine surveillance. The aim of this study was to perform a real-time evaluation of WGS for routine typing and surveillance of verocytotoxin-producing Escherichia coli (VTEC). In Denmark, the Statens Serum Institut (SSI) routinely receives all suspected VTEC isolates. During a 7-week period in the fall of 2012, all incoming isolates were concurrently subjected to WGS using IonTorrent PGM. Real-time bioinformatics analysis was performed using web-tools (www.genomicepidemiology.org) for species determination, multilocus sequence type (MLST) typing, and determination of phylogenetic relationship, and a specific VirulenceFinder for detection of E. coli virulence genes was developed as part of this study. In total, 46 suspected VTEC isolates were characterized in parallel during the study. VirulenceFinder proved successful in detecting virulence genes included in routine typing, explicitly verocytotoxin 1 (vtx1), verocytotoxin 2 (vtx2), and intimin (eae), and also detected additional virulence genes. VirulenceFinder is also a robust method for assigning verocytotoxin (vtx) subtypes. A real-time clustering of isolates in agreement with the epidemiology was established from WGS, enabling discrimination between sporadic and outbreak isolates. Overall, WGS typing produced results faster and at a lower cost than the current routine. Therefore, WGS typing is a superior alternative to conventional typing strategies. This approach may also be applied to typing and surveillance of other pathogens. 
Direct detection of macrolide resistance in Mycoplasma genitalium isolates from clinical specimens from France by use of real-time PCR and melting curve analysis.	Mycoplasma genitalium is a sexually transmitted organism commonly treated with azithromycin. However, macrolide resistance has been reported and is associated with point mutations in the 23S rRNA gene. To evaluate the prevalence of macrolide resistance in M. genitalium isolates from clinical specimens from France, we first used a previously reported high-resolution melting assay. Because susceptible and resistant M. genitalium isolates were hardly discriminated in M. genitalium-positive clinical specimens, we developed a new molecular assay for the rapid detection of macrolide resistance. An assay using real-time PCR based on fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) coupled with melting curve analysis was designed. The assay was first validated on characterized macrolide-resistant M. genitalium isolates and then applied to 202 urogenital M. genitalium-positive specimens collected from 178 patients from France in 2011 and 2012. Resistant genotypes were confirmed by 23S rRNA gene sequencing. Among the 202 M. genitalium-positive specimens, 155 were amplified, demonstrating a sensitivity of 76.7%. A substitution in the 23S rRNA gene was found in 14.2% of the patient samples. Nine and six patients had M. genitalium isolates with a substitution at positions 2059 and 2058, respectively. In four cases, a mixed population of wild-type and mutated M. genitalium isolates was observed. The prevalence of M. genitalium macrolide resistance has been stable in France since its detection in 2006. Our FRET PCR assay is able to discriminate between wild-type and resistant genotypes directly from clinical specimens. This assay will allow clinicians to shorten the time to the initiation of effective disease treatment. 
Clinical implications of evolutionary patterns of homologous, full-length hepatitis B virus quasispecies in different hosts after perinatal infection.	Chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection via perinatal transmission is common in the Asia-Pacific region, but related quasispecies (QS) characteristics are not yet defined. To investigate the homologous, full-length HBV QS after perinatal infection and their clinical implications, five pairs of mother-daughter patients with chronic HBV infection (one patient with liver cirrhosis, one with immune tolerance, and eight with chronic hepatitis) were included. Full-length HBV were amplified by PCR from serum samples before antiviral treatment and cloned; an average of 17 clones per sample were sequenced, and the QS complexities, diversities, and evolution patterns were analyzed. Full-length HBV sequence similarities within mother-daughter pairs were 91.3 to 98.3%. The QS complexities of full-length HBV were similar between mothers and daughters (median of 0.9734 compared to 0.9688, P>0.05), as were the diversities (median of 3.39610(-3) compared to 4.61710(-3) substitutions/site, P>0.05). However, the distribution patterns of QS complexities and diversities within specific genes were different, and QS genetic distances of the mothers were higher than those of daughters, both more evident in pairs with different antiviral responses and different immune phases or stages. The nucleotide substitution rate of full-length HBV was 14.38810(-5) substitutions/site/year, whereas the preC/C gene rate was the highest. Mutations and indels were more common in clones from the mothers, which decreased the affinity of epitopes by 6- to 89-fold. The various genes from homologous HBV genomes evolved in different patterns despite numerically comparable full-length QS complexities and diversities. The different patterns may correlate with the immune stages of chronic HBV infection, which warrants further study.
Identifying functional anti-Staphylococcus aureus antibodies by sequencing antibody repertoires of patient plasmablasts.	Infection by Staphylococcus aureus is on the rise, and there is a need for a better understanding of host immune responses that combat S. aureus. Here we use DNA barcoding to enable deep sequencing of the paired heavy- and light-chain immunoglobulin genes expressed by individual plasmablasts derived from S. aureus-infected humans. Bioinformatic analysis of the antibody repertoires revealed clonal families of heavy-chain sequences and enabled rational selection of antibodies for recombinant expression. Of the ten recombinant antibodies produced, seven bound to S. aureus, of which four promoted opsonophagocytosis of S. aureus. Five of the antibodies bound to known S. aureus cell-surface antigens, including fibronectin-binding protein A. Fibronectin-binding protein A-specific antibodies were isolated from two independent S. aureus-infected patients and mediated neutrophil killing of S. aureus in in vitro assays. Thus, our DNA barcoding approach enabled efficient identification of antibodies involved in protective host antibody responses against S. aureus.
Parallel continuous flow: a parallel suffix tree construction tool for whole genomes.	The construction of suffix trees for very long sequences is essential for many applications, and it plays a central role in the bioinformatic domain. With the advent of modern sequencing technologies, biological sequence databases have grown dramatically. Also the methodologies required to analyze these data have become more complex everyday, requiring fast queries to multiple genomes. In this article, we present parallel continuous flow (PCF), a parallel suffix tree construction method that is suitable for very long genomes. We tested our method for the suffix tree construction of the entire human genome, about 3GB. We showed that PCF can scale gracefully as the size of the input genome grows. Our method can work with an efficiency of 90% with 36 processors and 55% with 172 processors. We can index the human genome in 7 minutes using 172 processes.
Finding motifs in DNA sequences using low-dispersion sequences.	Motif finding problems, abstracted as the planted (l, d)-motif finding problem, are a major task in molecular biology--finding functioning units and genes. In 2002, the random projection algorithm was introduced to solve the challenging (15, 4)-motif finding problem by using randomly chosen templates. Two years later, a so-called uniform projection algorithm was developed to improve the random projection algorithm by means of low-dispersion sequences generated by coverings. In this article, we introduce an improved projection algorithm called the low-dispersion projection algorithm, which uses low-dispersion sequences generated by developed almost difference families. Compared with the random projection algorithm, the low-dispersion projection algorithm can solve the (l, d)-motif finding problem with fewer templates without decreasing the success rate.
seqCNA: an R package for DNA copy number analysis in cancer using high-throughput sequencing.	Deviations in the amount of genomic content that arise during tumorigenesis, called copy number alterations, are structural rearrangements that can critically affect gene expression patterns. Additionally, copy number alteration profiles allow insight into cancer discrimination, progression and complexity. On data obtained from high-throughput sequencing, improving quality through GC bias correction and keeping false positives to a minimum help build reliable copy number alteration profiles.
Rapid detection of isoniazid resistance in Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates by use of real-time-PCR-based melting curve analysis.	The MeltPro TB/INH assay, recently approved by the Chinese Food and Drug Administration, is a closed-tube, dual-color, melting curve analysis-based, real-time PCR test specially designed to detect 30 isoniazid (INH) resistance mutations in katG position 315 (katG 315), the inhA promoter (positions -17 to -8), inhA position 94, and the ahpC promoter (positions -44 to -30 and -15 to 3) of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Here we evaluated both the analytical performance and clinical performance of this assay. Analytical studies with corresponding panels demonstrated that the accuracy for detection of different mutation types (10 wild-type samples and 12 mutant type samples), the limit of detection (210(3) to 210(4) bacilli/ml), reproducibility (standard deviation [SD], <0.4C), and the lowest heteroresistance level (40%) all met the parameters preset by the kit. The assay could be run on five types of real-time PCR machines, with the shortest running time (105 min) obtained with the LightCycler 480 II. Clinical studies enrolled 1,096 clinical isolates collected from three geographically different tuberculosis centers, including 437 INH-resistant isolates and 659 INH-susceptible isolates characterized by traditional drug susceptibility testing on Lwenstein-Jensen solid medium. The clinical sensitivity and specificity of the MeltPro TB/INH assay were 90.8% and 96.4%, respectively. DNA sequencing analysis showed that, except for the 5 mutants outside the detection range of the MeltPro assay, a concordance rate between the two methods of 99.1% (457/461) was obtained. Among the 26 mutation types detected, katG S315T (AGCACC), inhA -15CT, katG S315N (AGCAAC), and ahpC promoter -10CT accounted for more than 90%. Overall, the MeltPro TB/INH assay represents a reliable and rapid tool for the detection of INH resistance in clinical isolates.
Fluorescence detection of Pb(2+) based on the DNA sequence functionalized CdS quantum dots.	In this paper, we have developed a simple and rapid method for the detection of Pb(2+) based on the DNA sequence capped CdS quantum dots (QDs). We utilized the designed guanine (G)-rich DNA sequence (PS2.M) as a coating reagent to synthesize the DNA-capped CdS QDs. The designed G-rich DNA sequence PS2.M can bind with hemin to form G-quadruplex/hemin complex with K(+), accompanied by the fluorescence quenching of CdS QDs via the photoinduced electron transfer. Pb(2+) can induce conformational changes in the G-quadruplex/hemin complex to release the hemin molecules, so the quenched fluorescence of CdS QDs could be recovered. Therefore, the new fluorescent analysis system could be applied for the detection of Pb(2+) based on the label-free DNA sequence capped CdS QDs. 
Multilocus sequence typing of Mycoplasma hyorhinis strains identified by a real-time TaqMan PCR assay.	A real-time TaqMan PCR assay based on the gene encoding the protein p37 was developed to detect Mycoplasma hyorhinis. Its specificity was validated with 29 epidemiologically unrelated M. hyorhinis strains (28 field strains and one reference strain) and other mycoplasma species or with other microorganisms commonly found in pigs. The estimated detection limit of this qPCR assay was 125 microorganism equivalents/l. The same 29 epidemiologically unrelated M. hyorhinis strains and four previously fully sequenced strains were typed by two portable typing methods, the sequencing of the p37 gene and a multilocus sequence typing (MLST) scheme. The first method revealed 18 distinct nucleotide sequences and insufficient discriminatory power (0.934). The MLST scheme was developed with the sequenced genomes of the M. hyorhinis strains HUB-1, GDL-1, MCLD, and SK76 and based on the genes dnaA, rpoB, gyrB, gltX, adk, and gmk. In total, 2,304 bp of sequence was analyzed for each strain. MLST was capable of subdividing the 33 strains into 29 distinct sequence types. The discriminatory power of the method was >0.95, which is the threshold value for interpreting typing results with confidence (D=0.989). Population analysis showed that recombination in M. hyorhinis occurs and that strains are diverse but with a certain clonality (one unique clonal complex was identified). The new qPCR assay and the robust MLST scheme are available for the acquisition of new knowledge on M. hyorhinis epidemiology. A web-accessible database has been set up for the M. hyorhinis MLST scheme at http://pubmlst.org/mhyorhinis/.
Application of qualitative and quantitative real-time PCR, direct sequencing, and terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis for detection and identification of polymicrobial 16S rRNA genes in ascites.	Qualitative and quantitative 16S rRNA gene-based real-time PCR and direct sequencing were applied for rapid detection and identification of bacterial DNA (bactDNA) in 356 ascites samples. bactDNA was detected in 35% of samples, with a mean of 3.24 log copies ml(-1). Direct sequencing of PCR products revealed 62% mixed chromatograms predominantly belonging to Gram-positive bacteria. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) results of a sample subset confirmed sequence data showing polymicrobial DNA contents in 67% of bactDNA-positive ascites samples. 
Transposon Insertion Finder (TIF): a novel program for detection of de novo transpositions of transposable elements.	Transposition event detection of transposable element (TE) in the genome using short reads from the next-generation sequence (NGS) was difficult, because the nucleotide sequence of TE itself is repetitive, making it difficult to identify locations of its insertions by alignment programs for NGS. We have developed a program with a new algorithm to detect the transpositions from NGS data.
Differentiation of Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC) variants by pyrosequencing.	A fast and reliable protocol using the pyrosequencing technique was developed to identify 11 different types of the KPC enzyme. A total of 65 blaKPC positive bacterial isolates were tested and characterized. In the end, the pyrosequencing proved to be a powerful tool for epidemiological studies of KPC producer isolates. 
Controlling for contamination in re-sequencing studies with a reproducible web-based phylogenetic approach.	Polymorphism discovery is a routine application of next-generation sequencing technology where multiple samples are sent to a service provider for library preparation, subsequent sequencing, and bioinformatic analyses. The decreasing cost and advances in multiplexing approaches have made it possible to analyze hundreds of samples at a reasonable cost. However, because of the manual steps involved in the initial processing of samples and handling of sequencing equipment, cross-contamination remains a significant challenge. It is especially problematic in cases where polymorphism frequencies do not adhere to diploid expectation, for example, heterogeneous tumor samples, organellar genomes, as well as during bacterial and viral sequencing. In these instances, low levels of contamination may be readily mistaken for polymorphisms, leading to false results. Here we describe practical steps designed to reliably detect contamination and uncover its origin, and also provide new, Galaxy-based, readily accessible computational tools and workflows for quality control. All results described in this report can be reproduced interactively on the web as described at http://usegalaxy.org/contamination. 
Genomic DNA library preparation for resistance gene enrichment and sequencing (RenSeq) in plants.	Enrichment of genomic DNA for genes of interest prior to high-throughput sequencing offers an efficient and cost-effective approach to reduce genome complexity. Target enrichment typically yields higher read-depth for selected genes and is therefore suitable for determination of sequence polymorphisms and enables multiplexing of samples. Target enrichment also provides a means to annotate specific gene families within the sequenced organisms without the requirements for gene models. Here we describe enrichment procedures for NB-LRR-type plant resistance genes that can, for example, be used to establish the NB-LRR gene complements of individual plants and to map resistances more rapidly using a bulked segregant analysis.
Cancer diagnostic classifiers based on quantitative DNA methylation.	Epigenetic change is part of the carcinogenic process and a deep reservoir for biomarker discovery. Reversible methylation of cytosines is noteworthy because it can be measured accurately and easily by various molecular methods and DNA methylation patterns are linked to important tumourigenic pathways. Clinically relevant methylation changes are known in common human cancers such as cervix, prostate, breast, colon, bladder, stomach and lung. Differential methylation may have a central role in the development and outcome of most if not all human malignancies. The advent of deep sequencing holds great promise for epigenomics, with bioinformatics tools ready to reveal large numbers of new targets for prognosis and therapeutic intervention. This review focuses on two selected cancers, namely cervix and prostate, which illustrate the more general themes of epigenetic diagnostics in cancer. Also discussed is differential methylation of specific human and viral DNA targets and laboratory methods for measuring methylation biomarkers. 
Complete genome of hepatitis E virus from laboratory ferrets.	The complete genome of hepatitis E virus (HEV) from laboratory ferrets imported from the United States was identified. This virus shared only 82.4%-82.5% nt sequence identities with strains from the Netherlands, which indicated that the ferret HEV genome is genetically diverse. Some laboratory ferrets were contaminated with HEV. 
Genetic characterization of clade 2.3.2.1 avian influenza A(H5N1) viruses, Indonesia, 2012.	After reports of unusually high mortality rates among ducks on farms in Java Island, Indonesia, in September 2012, influenza A(H5N1) viruses were detected and characterized. Sequence analyses revealed all genes clustered with contemporary clade 2.3.2.1 viruses, rather than enzootic clade 2.1.3 viruses, indicating the introduction of an exotic H5N1 clade into Indonesia. 
Hereditary hearing loss: a 96 gene targeted sequencing protocol reveals novel alleles in a series of Italian and Qatari patients.	Deafness is a really common disorder in humans. It can begin at any age with any degree of severity. Hereditary hearing loss is characterized by a vast genetic heterogeneity with more than 140 loci described in humans but only 65 genes so far identified. Families affected by hearing impairment would have real advantages from an early molecular diagnosis that is of primary relevance in genetic counseling. In this perspective, here we report a family-based approach employing Ion Torrent DNA sequencing technology to analyze coding and UTR regions of 96 genes related to hearing function and loss in a first series of 12 families coming from Italy and Qatar. Using this approach we were able to find the causative gene in 4 out of these 12 families (33%). In particular 5 novel alleles were identified in the following genes LOXHD1, TMPRSS3, TECTA and MYO15A already associated with hearing impairment. Our study confirms the usefulness of a targeted sequencing approach despite larger numbers are required for further validation and for defining a molecular epidemiology picture of hearing loss in these two countries.
Multimodal approach for diagnosis of bacterial etiology in brain abscess.	Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (PMRS) has high sensitivity and specificity for the detection of pyogenic brain abscess and the categorization of bacteria. But the metabolite patterns failed to evaluate the etiology of disease when the culture results are sterile. The aim of the present study is to compare the multimodality techniques viz., conventional culture, MR spectroscopy and 16S rRNA PCR and sequencing for rapid diagnosis of etiology in brain abscess and evaluate the PMRS in culture sterile samples and also demonstrate the sensitivity and specificity of these techniques.
Redefinition of the human mast cell transcriptome by deep-CAGE sequencing.	Mast cells (MCs) mature exclusively in peripheral tissues, hampering research into their developmental and functional programs. Here, we employed deep cap analysis of gene expression on skin-derived MCs to generate the most comprehensive view of the human MC transcriptome ever reported. An advantage is that MCs were embedded in the FANTOM5 project, giving the opportunity to contrast their molecular signature against a multitude of human samples. We demonstrate that MCs possess a unique and surprising transcriptional landscape, combining hematopoietic genes with those exclusively active in MCs and genes not previously reported as expressed by MCs (several of them markers of unrelated tissues). We also found functional bone morphogenetic protein receptors transducing activatory signals in MCs. Conversely, several immune-related genes frequently studied in MCs were not expressed or were weakly expressed. Comparing MCs ex vivo with cultured counterparts revealed profound changes in the MC transcriptome in in vitro surroundings. We also determined the promoter usage of MC-expressed genes and identified associated motifs active in the lineage. Befitting their uniqueness, MCs had no close relative in the hematopoietic network (also only distantly related with basophils). This rich data set reveals that our knowledge of human MCs is still limited, but with this resource, novel functional programs of MCs may soon be discovered.
Jannovar: a java library for exome annotation.	Transcript-based annotation and pedigree analysis are two basic steps in the computational analysis of whole-exome sequencing experiments in genetic diagnostics and disease-gene discovery projects. Here, we present Jannovar, a stand-alone Java application as well as a Java library designed to be used in larger software frameworks for exome and genome analysis. Jannovar uses an interval tree to identify all transcripts affected by a given variant, and provides Human Genome Variation Society-compliant annotations both for variants affecting coding sequences and splice junctions as well as untranslated regions and noncoding RNA transcripts. Jannovar can also perform family-based pedigree analysis with Variant Call Format (VCF) files with data from members of a family segregating a Mendelian disorder. Using a desktop computer, Jannovar requires a few seconds to annotate a typical VCF file with exome data. Jannovar is freely available under the BSD2 license. Source code as well as the Java application and library file can be downloaded from http://compbio.charite.de (with tutorial) and https://github.com/charite/jannovar. 
DNA hypomethylation in plasma as a cancer biomarker: when less is more?	Early cancer detection strategies are required to identify patients at initial stages, when curative-intended treatment is more effective. Assessment of genome-wide hypomethylation might allow for early cancer detection in bodily fluids, but requires high throughput technologies, such as next generation sequencing. In the study under evaluation, performance of a hypomethylation and copy number aberration (CNA) assay for detection of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), based on massive parallel bisulfite sequencing of plasma DNA was assessed. Sensitive (92/69%) and specific (88/94%) HCC detection (using 'OR'/'AND' algorithms) was achieved using a mean sequencing depth of 93 million reads in one lane. Using the 'AND' or the 'OR' algorithms, other cancer types were detected with 60% sensitivity and 94% specificity, or 85% sensitivity and 88% specificity, respectively. Lowering sequencing depth to 10 million reads (decreasing analysis time and cost) did not alter hypomethylation performance but impaired that of CNA.
Pyrosequencing for rapid detection of tuberculosis resistance in clinical isolates and sputum samples from re-treatment pulmonary tuberculosis patients.	Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) is a major public health problem. Early diagnosis of MDR-TB patients is essential for minimizing the risk of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB) transmission. The conventional drug susceptibility testing (DST) methods for detection of drug-resistant M. tuberculosis are laborious and cannot provide the rapid detection for clinical practice.
Copy number variation detection using next generation sequencing read counts.	A copy number variation (CNV) is a difference between genotypes in the number of copies of a genomic region. Next generation sequencing (NGS) technologies provide sensitive and accurate tools for detecting genomic variations that include CNVs. However, statistical approaches for CNV identification using NGS are limited. We propose a new methodology for detecting CNVs using NGS data. This method (henceforth denoted by m-HMM) is based on a hidden Markov model with emission probabilities that are governed by mixture distributions. We use the Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithm to estimate the parameters in the model.
ngs.plot: Quick mining and visualization of next-generation sequencing data by integrating genomic databases.	Understanding the relationship between the millions of functional DNA elements and their protein regulators, and how they work in conjunction to manifest diverse phenotypes, is key to advancing our understanding of the mammalian genome. Next-generation sequencing technology is now used widely to probe these protein-DNA interactions and to profile gene expression at a genome-wide scale. As the cost of DNA sequencing continues to fall, the interpretation of the ever increasing amount of data generated represents a considerable challenge.
Multiplex PCR based on a universal biotinylated primer to generate templates for pyrosequencing.	Pyrosequencing is a powerful tool widely used in genetic analysis, however template preparation prior to pyrosequencing is still costly and time-consuming. To achieve an inexpensive and labor-saving template preparation for pyrosequencing, we have successfully developed a single-tube multiplex PCR including a pre-amplification and a universal amplification. In the process of pre-amplification, a low concentration of target-specific primers tagged with universal ends introduced universal priming regions into amplicons. In the process of universal amplification, a high concentration of universal primers was used for yielding amplicons with various SNPs of interest. As only a universal biotinylated primer and one step of single-stranded DNA preparation were required for typing multiple SNPs located on different sequences, pyrosequencing-based genotyping became time-saving, labor-saving, sample-saving, and cost-saving. By a simple optimization of multiplex PCR condition, only a 4-plex and a 3-plex PCR were required for typing 7 SNPs related to tamoxifen metabolism. Further study showed that pyrosequencing coupled with an improved multiplex PCR protocol allowed around 30% decrease of either typing cost or typing labor. Considering the biotinylated primer and the optimized condition of the multiplex PCR are independent of SNP locus, it is easy to use the same condition and the identical biotinylated primer for typing other SNPs. The preliminary typing results of the 7 SNPs in 11 samples demonstrated that multiplex PCR-based pyrosequencing could be promising in personalized medicine at a low cost.
Statistical power and significance testing in large-scale genetic studies.	Significance testing was developed as an objective method for summarizing statistical evidence for a hypothesis. It has been widely adopted in genetic studies, including genome-wide association studies and, more recently, exome sequencing studies. However, significance testing in both genome-wide and exome-wide studies must adopt stringent significance thresholds to allow multiple testing, and it is useful only when studies have adequate statistical power, which depends on the characteristics of the phenotype and the putative genetic variant, as well as the study design. Here, we review the principles and applications of significance testing and power calculation, including recently proposed gene-based tests for rare variants. 
QTL mapping by pooled-segregant whole-genome sequencing in yeast.	Quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping by pooled-segregant whole-genome sequencing in yeast is a robust methodology for the simultaneous identification of superior genes involved in polygenic traits (e.g., high ethanol tolerance). By crossing two haploid strains with opposite phenotypes, being one of interest, the resulting diploid is sporulated, the meiotic segregants phenotyped, and a pool of selected segregants with the phenotype of interest assembled. The genotyping by pooled-segregant sequencing constitutes a fast and reliable methodology to map all QTL defining the trait of interest. The QTLs can be further analyzed by reciprocal hemizygosity analysis to identify the causative superior alleles that can subsequently be used for yeast strain improvement by targeted genetic engineering. 
Frequent mutations in EGFR, KRAS and TP53 genes in human lung cancer tumors detected by ion torrent DNA sequencing.	Lung cancer is the most common malignancy and the leading cause of cancer deaths worldwide. While smoking is by far the leading cause of lung cancer, other environmental and genetic factors influence the development and progression of the cancer. Since unique mutations patterns have been observed in individual cancer samples, identification and characterization of the distinctive lung cancer molecular profile is essential for developing more effective, tailored therapies. Until recently, personalized DNA sequencing to identify genetic mutations in cancer was impractical and expensive. The recent technological advancements in next-generation DNA sequencing, such as the semiconductor-based Ion Torrent sequencing platform, has made DNA sequencing cost and time effective with more reliable results. Using the Ion Torrent Ampliseq Cancer Panel, we sequenced 737 loci from 45 cancer-related genes to identify genetic mutations in 76 human lung cancer samples. The sequencing analysis revealed missense mutations in KRAS, EGFR, and TP53 genes in the breast cancer samples of various histologic types. Thus, this study demonstrates the necessity of sequencing individual human cancers in order to develop personalized drugs or combination therapies to effectively target individual, breast cancer-specific mutations. 
Molecular heterogeneity of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma defined by next-generation sequencing.	Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) can be divided into two different clinical entities based on their association with high-risk subtypes of human papilloma virus (HPV16 and HPV18). Dissimilarities in prognosis and molecular profiles have attracted much attention in recent years, in part because of increasing rates of HPV infection in HNSCC; however, the underlying mechanisms and detailed genetic profiles that set these tumors apart are still elusive. To elucidate oncogenic pathways in HNSCC with and without HPV infection, we used targeted next-generation sequencing to interrogate single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 50 cancer-related genes. We detected SNPs in 25 of these genes from HNSCC tissue specimens with and without HPV infection. In 5 of the 25 genes, variant patterns were similar regardless of HPV infection status. A greater number of sequence variants in genes from the tyrosine kinase receptors and their associated pathways were preferentially present in HPV(+) specimens. SNPs in genes related to tumor-suppressor functions were more prevalent in HPV(-) HNSCC specimens. The observations may help to elucidate mechanisms involved in the molecular pathogenesis of two clinically diverse subclasses of HNSCC. Over-representation of SNPs in either HPV(+) or HPV(-) HNSCC is another indicator of potentially actionable sequence variants for targeted therapy. 
Fluorescence-based DNA minisequence analysis for detection of known single-base changes in genomic DNA.	We describe a rapid, automated method for direct detection of known single-base changes in genomic DNA. Fluorescence-based DNA minisequence analysis is employed in a template-dependent reaction which involves a single nucleotide extension of an oligonucleotide primer by the correct fluorescently-tagged dideoxynucleotide chain terminator. Detection following electrophoresis on denaturing acrylamide gels is facilitated by alkaline phosphatase treatment of reaction products after extension followed by isopropanol precipitation of the dye-tagged, single-base-extended primer to remove unincorporated deoxynucleotides. Fluorescence analysis of the incorporated dye tag reveals the identity of the template nucleotide immediately 3' to the primer site. This technique does not require radioactivity or biotinylated PCR product, relies on the incorporation of a single dideoxynucleotide terminator to extend the primer by one nucleotide and takes advantage of the sensitivity of fluorescent terminators developed for automated DNA sequence analysis. As a demonstration, we have applied the assay to human genomic DNA for detection of the sickle mutation in the beta-globin gene, and have also examined feasibility for simultaneous delineation using a multiplex-like strategy in a single gel-lane of some of the most common beta-thalassemia mutations in the Mediterranean basin.
A method for preparing M13 or pUC libraries for sequencing DNA with high G + C or A + T contents.	A simple method is described to generate M13 or pUC libraries from DNA with a very high G + C or A + T content. The G + C-rich DNA is partially digested with HinPI or HpaII restriction enzymes and cloned into the vector linearized in its multiple cloning site with AccI. The A + T-rich DNA is partially digested with TspI and cloned into the EcoRI-linearized vector. These libraries are suitable for large-scale DNA sequencing.
Accuracy of automated DNA sequencing: a multi-laboratory comparison of sequencing results.	A double-stranded (ds)DNA template of "unknown" sequence was distributed to approximately 80 core DNA sequencing laboratories by the Association of Biomolecular Resource Facilities (ABRF) for automated DNA sequence analysis. Forty-four different facilities responded with 83 usable sequence submissions. These sequences were grouped by both sequencing protocol (dye-primer or dye-terminator) and whether manually edited or not. The sequences were aligned with the known sequence, and the number of correct base calls, insertions, deletions, no-calls and miscalls were determined for each group. The dye-primer sequencing protocol provided the longest and most accurate sequence. The edited dye-primer data were > 95% accurate out to 400-450 bp, while the edited dye-terminator data could call only 300-350 bases at this accuracy. However, 75% of the laboratories in this sampling preferred the dye-terminator protocol, presumably because of its versatility and convenience. Laboratories that manually edited the automatically called data were able to obtain an additional 100 bases of good sequence when the dye-primer protocol was used. Surprisingly though, editing of dye-terminator results did not increase the amount of good sequence, although the dye-terminator protocol had a superior base-calling ability within the first 100 bases of called sequence.
Sequencing 500 kb of yeast DNA using a GATC 1500 Direct Blotting Electrophoresis System.	We have developed efficient protocols for the construction of shotgun libraries and for high-throughput DNA sequencing at low cost using the optimized GATC 1500 Direct Blotting Electrophoresis system with colorimetric detection on nylon membranes. We can now sequence entire cosmids without any primer walking at low coverage (8-fold to 9-fold). We have demonstrated the efficiency of our protocols while sequencing 500 kb of yeast DNA with the GATC 1500 system. The methods described here have allowed us to achieve the highest data rate within the framework of the European Communities yeast sequencing program. In 1993, only two people were involved in generating and submitting 156,274 bp of final sequence data. Thereof, 39,360 bp have been verified independently in other laboratories, and no sequencing error has been found.
Analysis of rearranged T-cell receptor beta-chain genes by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) DNA sequencing and automated high resolution PCR fragment analysis.	Polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-directed amplification and sequencing of rearranged immune genes for identification of clone-specific markers are increasingly being used in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) patients instead of the time consuming and labor intensive Southern analysis. In previous reports, no single common V beta and J beta sequence had been identified that allowed reliable amplification of the majority of rearranged T-cell antigen receptor (TCR)-beta V-D-J junctions at the DNA level because of the relatively large number of possible TCR-beta variable (V beta) and joining (J beta) gene segments involved in the rearrangement processes. In the present study we designed highly degenerate PCR primers directed against conserved sequences of the J beta genes. IN combination with a previously published consensus V beta primer, these J beta primers specifically amplify TCR- beta V-N(D)N-J junctions from genomic DNA. Using this approach we studied DNA extracted from biopsy material of nine patients with T-cell lymphoproliferative disorders, one c-ALL patient, and five patients with nonmalignant diseases. T-cell lines Molt 3, Jurkat, and HM 2 served as monoclonal controls. Individual PCR products were sequenced after cloning. The nucleotide sequences of 96 randomly chosen recombinant vectors were determined. In the polyclonal controls all analyzed clones differed in their TCR-beta V-N(D)N-J junctions. In the T-cell lines, in all of the T-cell malignancies, and in the c-ALL, monoclonal PCR products could be identified by demonstration of clonally restricted V-N(D)N-J junctions. The PCR results were confirmed by automated fluorescence quantification and size determination of PCR products after separation in a high-resolution polyacrylamide gel. The procedure allows rapid and specific characterization of clonal TCR-beta rearrangements from genomic DNA and will significantly simplify current experimental approaches to identify and to quantitate malignant T cells during initial staging and follow-up of T-lineage NHL and ALL patients.
A small automaton for word recognition in DNA sequences and its application to consensus analysis of regulatory elements in DNA regions controlling gene expression.	A method for pattern analysis of DNA sequence data is considered. A space economical automaton for word recognition was presented elsewhere together with an algorithm for its compilation in linear time. An algorithm for the localization of words including imperfect matches (motif search) was developed. A program was implemented on the Macintosh and used extensively for the representation of the word composition of DNA data. We explore different sets of regulatory sequences to illustrate the performance of this method. In mammalian DNA, this analysis reveals "consensus motifs" corresponding to functional (or putative) cis-acting elements mediating the regulation of gene expression.
Discovering sequence similarity by the algorithmic significance method.	The minimal-length encoding approach is applied to define concept of sequence similarity. A sequence is defined to be similar to another sequence or to a set of keywords if it can be encoded in a small number of bits by taking advantage of common subwords. Minimal-length encoding of a sequence is computed in linear time, using a data compression algorithm that is based on a dynamic programming strategy and the directed acyclic word graph data structure. No assumptions about common word ("k-tuple") length are made in advance, and common words of any length are considered. The newly proposed algorithmic significance method provides an exact upper bound on the probability that sequence similarity has occurred by chance, thus eliminating the need for any arbitrary choice of similarity thresholds. Preliminary experiments indicate that a small number of keywords can positively identify a DNA sequence, which is extremely relevant in the context of partial sequencing by hybridization.
Prediction of primate splice junction gene sequences with a cooperative knowledge acquisition system.	We propose a cooperative conceptual modelling environment in which two agents interact: the machine and the human expert. The former is able to extract knowledge from data using a symbolic-numeric machine learning system, and the latter is able to control the learning process by accepting and validating the machine results, or by criticizing those results or the explanation that the system produces on them. The improvement of the conceptual modelling relies on the cooperation between the two agents. Results obtained with our method on prediction of primate splice junctions sites in genetic sequences are far better than those reported in the literature with other symbolic machine learning systems, and are as better as those obtained with some artificial neural networks methods reported at present. But in opposite to neural networks which lack of argumentation, our system provides the user a plausible explanation of its prediction.
Knowledge discovery in GenBank.	We describe various methods designed to discover knowledge in the GenBank nucleic acid sequence database. Using a grammatical model of gene structure, we create a parse tree of a gene using features listed in the FEATURE TABLE. The parse tree infers features that are not explicitly listed, but which follow from the listed features. This method discovers 30% more introns and 40% more exons when applied to a globin gene subset of GenBank. Parse tree construction also entails resolving ambiguity and inconsistency within a FEATURE TABLE. We transform the parse tree into an augmented FEATURE TABLE that represents inferred gene structure explicitly and unambiguously, thereby greatly improving the utility of the FEATURE TABLE to researchers. We then describe various analogical reasoning techniques designed to exploit the homologous nature of genes. We build a classification hierarchy that reflects the evolutionary relationship between genes. Descriptive grammars of gene classes are then induced from the instance grammars of genes. Case based reasoning techniques use these abstract gene class descriptions to predict the presence and location of regulatory features not listed in the FEATURE TABLE. A cross-validation test shows a success rate of 87% on a globin gene subset of GenBank.
Genetic algorithms for DNA sequence assembly.	This paper describes a genetic algorithm application to the DNA sequence assembly problem. The genetic algorithm uses a sorted order representation for representing the orderings of fragments. Two different fitness functions, both based on pairwise overlap strengths between fragments, are tested. The paper concludes that the genetic algorithm is a promising method for fragment assembly problems, achieving usable solutions quickly, but that the current fitness functions are flawed and that other representations might be more appropriate.
Object-oriented knowledge bases for the analysis of prokaryotic and eukaryotic genomes.	The amount of biological sequences introduced in the general collections, and the growing complexity of the biological knowledge require the construction of models to formalize this knowledge and particularly the relationships between several data types. Two examples of such situations are presented here, they result from the biological research lead in our team in the field of molecular evolution. ColiGene is a modelling of E. coli genetics devoted to the analysis of relationships between genomic sequences and gene expressivity. MultiMap implements a new formalization of genome maps allowing manipulation of "maps of maps" in two species. Application of ColiGene and MultiMap are not restricted to molecular evolution and, for instance, MultiMap offers new capabilities for infering data on a genome from knowledge on another species. This could be essential for many mapping projects (human, mouse but also other mammals like pig). Development and implementation of those models have been done using an object-oriented knowledge base management system (SHIRKA) interfaced with a dedicated genomic data base management system (ACNUC). Graphical interfaces have been designed to give an environment similar to the biological representations used by biologists.
A partial digest approach to restriction site mapping.	We present a new practical algorithm to resolve the experimental data of restriction site analysis, which is a common technique for mapping DNA. Specifically, we assert that multiple digests with a single restriction enzyme can provide sufficient information to identify the positions of the restriction sites with high probability. The motivation for the new approach comes from combinatorial results on the number of mutually homeometric sets in one dimension, where two sets of n points are homeometric if the multiset of (n2) distances they determine are the same. Since experimental data contains error, we propose algorithms for reconstructing sets from noisy interpoint distances, including the possibility of missing fragments. We analyze the performance of these algorithms under a reasonable probability distribution, establishing a relative error limit of r = theta (1/n2) beyond which our technique becomes infeasible. Through simulations, we establish that our technique is robust enough to reconstruct data with relative errors of up to 7.0% in the measured fragment lengths for typical problems, which appears sufficient for certain biological applications.
Identification of human gene functional regions based on oligonucleotide composition.	Accurate recognition of coding and intron regions within large regions of uncharacterized genomic DNA is an unsolved problem. A data base of more than 4,240,791 bp coding and 7,790,682 bp noncoding human sequences was extracted from GenBank to develop a function for locating coding regions in anonymous sequences. Several coding measures based on oligonucleotide preferences were tested on a control set that including 1/3 of all extracted sequences. An accuracy of separation of coding/noncoding regions is 87% for 9 bp oligonucleotides on 54 bp windows and 91% on 108 bp windows, respectively. For separation of coding/intron regions the accuracy is 89-90% for 8 bp oligonucleotides on 54 bp windows and up to 95% on 108 bp windows. Using the information about preferences of octanucleotides in protein coding and intron regions and significant triplet frequencies as a function of position near splice junctions, a joint splice site prediction scheme was developed. The accuracy of the joint scheme for predicting splice site positions on the test set was about 96-97%, which exceeds the accuracy of the previously reported splice site selection method based on a more complex artificial neural network approach. A model of splicing using poly-G(C) rich exon flanking sequences is suggested. A remarkable difference of oligonucleotide composition 5'- and 3'- gene regions is displayed and applied in a gene structure predictive system.
Neural networks for molecular sequence classification.	A neural network classification method has been developed as an alternative approach to the search/organization problem of large molecular databases. Two artificial neural systems have been implemented on a Cray supercomputer for rapid protein/nucleic acid sequence classifications. The neural networks used are three-layered, feed-forward networks that employ back-propagation learning algorithm. The molecular sequences are encoded into neural input vectors by applying an n-gram hashing method or a SVD (singular value decomposition) method. Once trained with known sequences in the molecular databases, the neural system becomes an associative memory capable of classifying unknown sequences based on the class information embedded in its neural interconnections. The protein system, which classifies proteins into PIR (Protein Identification Resource) superfamilies, showed a 82% to a close to 100% sensitivity at a speed that is about an order of magnitude faster than other search methods. The pilot nucleic acid system, which classifies ribosomal RNA sequences according to phylogenetic groups, has achieved a 100% classification accuracy. The system could be used to reduce the database search time and help organize the molecular sequence databases. The tool is generally applicable to any databases that are organized according to family relationships.
Direct solid-phase sequence analysis of the human p53 gene by use of multiplex polymerase chain reaction and alpha-thiotriphosphate nucleotides.	Among the candidate cancer-prognostic genes is the p53 tumor suppressor gene, which, when mutated, plays an important role in the development of many types of cancers. To facilitate robust large-scale DNA analysis of microdissected tumor biopsies, we describe a multiplex/nested PCR approach for a simultaneous outer amplification of exons 4-9 of the human p53 gene with parallel amplification of the HLA-DQB1 locus, involving a total of 14 primers. This approach reduces the required number of cells for analysis and avoids any variation in the amplifications of the individual p53 exons during the common outer amplification step. The HLA sequencing allows sample identification because the DQB1 locus is highly polymorphic and is thereby patient-specific. The p53 and HLA amplicons are analyzed by solid-phase sequencing in a semiautomated format. To improve the DNA sequence quality, we used 2'-deoxyribonucleoside 5'-O-1-thiotriphosphates in the sequencing reactions.
Detection and partial sequence analysis of Helicobacter pylori DNA in the bile samples.	The existence of Helicobacter pylori in the biliary tract was investigated. Seven bile samples were included in this study. Among them, six bile samples were collected by percutaneous transhepatic cholangiodrainage and the other by needle aspiration during cholecystectomy. Using nested PCR with two sets of primers homologous to the urease A gene, Helicobacter pylori DNA was detected. Three samples, one from a patient with advanced gastric cancer involving the pancreatic head and two from patients with pancreatic head tumor, were found to be positive for Helicobacter pylori DNA. On the other hand, three samples from patients with cholangiocarcinoma and one from a patient with chronic cholecystitis were all negative. To further verify the specificity of our PCR analysis, partial sequences of the PCR products from the three positive samples were analyzed by direct sequencing. Several silent mutations and a missense mutation (AAA to AGA; Lys-164 to Arg-164) were identified in the urease A gene. We conclude that Helicobacter pylori DNA can be easily detected in the bile samples. The possibility of asymptomatic cholangitis caused by this organism requires further investigation.
Multienzyme nested deletion (MEND) technique for creation of unidirectional deletions in cloned DNA.	An alternative method to construct nested unidirectional deletions of cloned DNA is presented. The multi-enzyme nested deletion technique exploits the fact that the 6-base recognition enzyme ClaI produces termini compatible with at least five restriction enzymes that have different 4-base recognition sequences. A plasmid deletion cloning vector with a ClaI site in the polylinker is linearized with ClaI and then cut with a second enzyme to yield incompatible ends. Directionally cloned insert DNA (in this example SfiI and NotI) is partially digested with one or several of the 4-base recognition enzymes AciI, HinP1I, MaeII, MspI, or TaqI. An aliquot of this partial digest is ligated into SfiI/ClaI cut vector to yield deletions from the NotI end of the insert. Another aliquot is ligated into ClaI/NotI cut vector to yield deletions from the SfiI end of the insert. In general, one of these 4-base cutters will yield deletion clones useful for manual DNA sequencing (i.e., deletions of 300-400 bp or less). It is also simple to perform partial digestion with two enzymes simultaneously if required.
A common hot spot for somatic and germline mutations in rat mitochondrial DNA: analysis by fluorescence-based SSCP.	To estimate the degree of sequence heterogeneity of mtDNA, we have developed an efficient system for mutant detection using fluorescence-based single strand conformational polymorphism (F-SSCP). The F-SSCP analysis 200 clones from Wistar rat and sequencing of 2 clones from each 40 inbred Wistar rats at the age of 7 weeks detected no sequence differences, suggesting that the mtDNA sequence heterogeneity is low in young rat hearts. One of the 387 clones isolated from a Donryu rat showed a different mobility in the F-SSCP from other clones. Sequencing of the mutant clone revealed double contiguous TT-->CC transitions at nucleotide positions 15443 and 15444, compared with the normal Donryu clone. The nucleotide at 15444 was different between the Wistar and Donryu rats, indicating that this is the site of germline mutation. These results suggest that the somatic and germline mutations can occur at a common hot spot.
The complete nucleotide sequences of the SacBII Kan domain of the P1 pAD10-SacBII cloning vector and three cosmid cloning vectors: pTCF, svPHEP, and LAWRIST16.	The complete nucleotide sequence of the 16,009-bp SacBII Kan domain of the P1 pAD10-SacBII cloning vector and the sequences of three cosmid cloning vectors, pTCF (7941 bp), svPHEP (9201 bp), and LAWRIST16 (5194 bp) have been determined. A modified diatomaceous earth (Prep-A-Gene)-based procedure, which rapidly yields highly supercoiled double-stranded DNA from recombinant P1 and cosmid clones suitable for generating shotgun libraries, also has been developed. The isolated recombinant DNAs were physically sheared to generate 1- to 2-kb fragments that then were blunt-ended and subcloned into double-stranded pUC-based sequencing vectors. The double-stranded sequencing templates were isolated by an alkaline lysis method and subjected to Taq polymerase catalyzed fluorescent end-labeled primer cycle sequencing. After shotgun sequence assembly, contig gaps were closed and ambiguities were resolved via Sequenase catalyzed fluorescent dye-terminator sequencing.
A novel method for generating nested deletions using the in vitro bacteriophage T3 DNA packaging system.	To sequence a DNA segment inserted into a cosmid vector under the directed sequencing strategy, we established a simple and rapid method for generating nested deletions which uses the in vitro packaging system of bacteriophage T3 DNA. The principle is based on the previous finding that this system can translocate any linear double-stranded DNA up to 40 kb into the phage capsid in a time-dependent manner and the encapsulated DNA becomes DNase-resistant. For this purpose, we constructed a cosmid vector that carries two different antibiotic selection markers at both sides of the multiple cloning site, and after insertion of a DNA segment, the clone was linearized by lambda-terminase at the cos site. After the packaging reaction in vitro followed by DNase treatment, the encapsulated DNA was introduced into Escherichia coli cells to give clones with unidirectional deletions by differential antibiotic selection. Restriction and sequence analyses of deletion clones demonstrated that an ordered set of clones with nested deletions, ranging from less than 1 kb to 25 kb, was created from either the end of the DNA segment. Thus, nested deletion clones that cover the entire region of a approximately 40-kb cosmid insert can be obtained by a single packaging reaction, and its restriction map can be simultaneously obtained.
Sequencing of DNA by mechanical opening of the double helix: a theoretical evaluation]	We propose and evaluate a model experiment, in which the sequence of a DNA fragment is determined by mechanically opening the double helix in a controlled manner (e.g. pulling on the 3' end of one strand), and measuring the variation of the force exerted by the base pairs on a nanodynamometer (e.g. on a bead in an optical trap or a glass microneedle attached to the 5' end of the other strand). We show that the major limitation of the approach is the longitudinal elasticity of the already sequenced single strand sections, which soften the displacement-force function, and facilitate spontaneous thermal opening of the base pairs.
Automated fluorescent genomic sequencing as applied to the methylation analysis of the human ornithine decarboxylase gene.	A genomic sequencing method for an automated DNA sequencer was developed. The method described here is an improved version of the previously published protocol, which utilizes bisulfite-induced modification of genomic DNA. In our method, the modified DNA is purified without a time-consuming dialysis, and the subsequent 2-step DNA amplification is carried out with one biotinylated primer in order to separate and isolate the strands of the product with the aid of streptavidin-coated magnetic beads. The strands are then sequenced with fluorescent primers and automated DNA sequencer. This provides means to determine reliably the methylation status of cytosines as well as the degree of methylation in a given CpG, site of the target sequence. The method was successfully applied to analyze the promoter region and the 11th exon of the human ornithine decarboxylase ODC gene in various human myeloma cell lines. The study revealed a totally unmethylated promoter region in every cell line studied, whereas the protein coding region appeared to be extensively methylated, although a dexamethasone resistant cell line displayed demethylation in certain CpG sequences. Also, a previously unknown ODC allele was detected.
Quantification of mitochondrial DNA carrying the tRNA(8344Lys) point mutation in myoclonus epilepsy and ragged-red-fiber disease.	Myoclonus epilepsy and ragged-red-fiber syndrome (MERRF) is caused by a point mutation at nucleotide 8344 in the tRNA(Lys) gene of mitochondrial DNA. We analyzed leukocyte DNA from nine members of a large MERRF family using a new technique, solid-phase minisequencing. Quantitative analysis of the tRNA(8344Lys) mutation showed that the mutated mtDNA comprised from 9 to 72% of the total mtDNA in the leukocytes of these individuals. The minisequencing method is a promising tool for the diagnosis of MERRF. In addition to the identification of the tRNA(8344Lys) mutation, the relative amount of mutated mtDNA can be simultaneously determined in the same assay from one blood sample.
Human genome project and mutation research: a mating that needs to happen.	The Human Genome Project has been in existence for several years. It has created a wealth of resources in the form of genetic and physical maps, innovative technologies, instrumentation, and information. It is driving the future of gene discovery, as well as disease diagnosis, amelioration, and treatment. Despite the successes in the project, the mutation research community has, in general, been slow to capitalize on the infrastructure and resources that have been created. This should not continue as there are now available some key technologies and resources that are ripe for exploitation.
Double-origin vectors for isolating bidirectional deletions useful in DNA sequence analysis.	Cosmids containing two compatible origins of replication (oris) have been constructed for isolating bidirectional deletions in cloned DNA. The inserted fragment and the cos site are cut, respectively, with a restriction enzyme and lambda terminase to produce two linear fragments that are circularized to produce two autonomously replicating plasmids. Each plasmid contains a different portion of the insert fused to the cosL or cosR sequence. From a series of such deletion-bearing plasmids, the nucleotide sequence of the insert can be determined in both directions using cosL and cosR primers.
T-cassette ligation: a method for direct sequencing and cloning of PCR-amplified DNA fragments.	We describe a method to ligate a PCR-amplified DNA fragment with T-protruding cassettes, which have multiple sites for endonuclease, promoter sequences of T3 and T7, and annealing sites for the universal M13 forward and reverse primers. This method, which we named T-cassette ligation, substantially facilitated direct sequencing and subcloning of PCR products. Two T-cassettes with a protruding T at their 3' ends were obtained by annealing adaptor oligomers to XbaI- or XhoI-digested pBluescript. A DNA fragment amplified by the first PCR was ligated separately to one of the two T-cassettes. The second PCR was performed using a primer complementary to one of the two T-cassettes and one of the two primers used for the first PCR to amplify the ligation product in low abundance. The resultant two DNA fragments had the T3 and T7 promoter, and an annealing site for the universal M13 forward and reverse primer, respectively. These DNA fragments were applicable to direct sequencing. For the purpose of subcloning, the third PCR was carried out with two primers each complementary to each of two T-cassettes and two PCR-amplified DNAs by the second PCR, as templates. The PCR product of the third PCR had multiple sites of the pBluescript polycloning site at both ends, facilitating its subcloning into pBluescript.
The yeast co-activator GAL11 positively influences transcription of the phosphoglycerate kinase gene, but only when RAP1 is bound to its upstream activation sequence.	Transcription of the yeast phosphoglycerate kinase gene (PGK) is activated by an array of nuclear factors including the multifunctional protein RAP1. We have demonstrated that the transcriptional co-activator GAL11, which was identified as an auxiliary factor to GAL4 and which is believed to interact with the zinc finger of the trans-activator, positively influences the level of PGK transcription on both fermentable and non-fermentable carbon sources. This positive effect is only observed when the RAP1 site in the upstream activation sequence (UAS) is present, implying that GAL11 acts through RAP1. Expression of the RAP1 gene is not reduced in the gal11 background, and in vivo footprinting shows that GAL11 does not influence RAP1 DNA-binding activity. Therefore the effect of GAL11 on PGK transcription must be mediated at the PGK UAS, presumably as part of the activation complex. It has been proposed that RAP1 may act as a facilitator of GCR1 binding at the PGK UAS and therefore it is conceivable that the target for GAL11 may in fact be GCR1. A further implication of this study is that GAL11 can interact with proteins such as RAP1 or GCR1 that are apparently structurally dissimilar from GAL4 and other zinc finger DNA-binding proteins.
Application of hybridization techniques to genome mapping and sequencing.	Establishment of a variety of hybridization techniques for the analysis of large genomic areas has paved the way for a parallel examination of genomes on many levels within the framework of the various genome projects. Here, I discuss some recent achievements in the application of DNA hybridization techniques, in particular oligomer hybridization.
From field to film: rapid sequencing methods for field-collected plant species.	Methods that have proven effective in the rapid extraction of plant DNA, PCR amplification and sequencing of ribosomal and chloroplast genes are presented. Techniques that can be used under field conditions to preserve DNA for subsequent extraction are reviewed. Tissues that are fresh, heat-desiccated, silica gel-desiccated and cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB) buffer preserved are compared for DNA quality and quantity. The "delayed CTAB" method yields high molecular weight DNA, thereby providing an alternative to preservation using silica gel. Optimized methodologies for PCR amplification and double-stranded sequencing of the product are detailed including gel purification of PCR products using DEAE membranes.
A general approach for PCR-amplification and sequencing of chloroplast DNA from crude vascular plant and algal tissue.	A universal and reliable sequencing approach suitable for evolutionary and phylogenetic studies of most plant species has been developed. The initial step in the approach is PCR with primers from conserved regions in the chloroplast genome. Prior to PCR a simple DNA extraction is carried out where lysed tissue is embedded in agarose and dialyzed. Due to the use of one biotinylated primer in the PCR, the PCR products can be bound to magnetic streptavidin-coated beads and then sequenced directly by the solid-phase approach. The regions used for sequencing and subsequent analyses are the intron of the trnL gene and the intergenic spacer between the trnL and the trnF genes in the chloroplast DNA. Comparisons of the sequences obtained from closely and distantly related species show that the different chloroplast DNA regions harbor variations suitable for phylogenetic inference from the subspecific to the interfamiliar level. The strategy can be used both for manual and automated sequencing.
Identification of DNA adducts at specific locations by sequencing techniques.	1. A simple procedure for the accurate identification of the positions of adduct formation when viral M13mp18 single stranded DNA is treated with chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) is presented. 2. The normal dideoxy sequencing reaction protocol was employed except no dideoxy nucleotides were used to cause chain termination. 3. Instead, the CAA adducted bases of the template DNA act as points of polymerase fall off causing the appearance of bands of DNA sequencing gel autoradiographs marking locations where adduct formation may have occurred.
Non-radioactive direct sequencing of PCR products amplified from neuropathological specimens.	We have developed a simple, rapid and relatively inexpensive protocol for direct non-isotopic cycle sequencing of DNA amplified using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). PCR is performed on routine and archival neuropathological tissue. For sequencing, a 5'-digoxigenin end-labelled oligonucleotide primer is annealed and extended during thermal cycling, sequencing reactions are separated on a standard sequencing gel and the gel is contact-blotted to a nylon membrane. Sequenced DNA is visualized using immunological detection of digoxigenin.
FASTPAT: a fast and efficient algorithm for string searching in DNA sequences.	A new string searching algorithm is presented aimed at searching for the occurrence of character patterns in longer character texts. The algorithm, specifically designed for nucleic acid sequence data, is essentially derived from the Boyer-Moore method (Comm. ACM, 20, 762-772, 1977). Both pattern and text data are compressed so that the natural 4-letter alphabet of nucleic acid sequences is considerably enlarged. The string search starts from the last character of the pattern and proceeds in large jumps through the text to be searched. The data compression and searching algorithm allows one to avoid searching for patterns not present in the text as well as to inspect, for each pattern, all text characters until the exact match with the text is found. These considerations are supported by empirical evidence and comparisons with other methods.
A PCR method for the sequence analysis of the gyrA, polA and rnhA gene segments from mycobacteria.	Internal segments of the gyrA and polA genes involved in DNA replication of Mycobacterium tuberculosis and rnhA of M. smegmatis, have been amplified by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using degenerate oligodeoxyribonucleotide primers based on conserved sequences. The deduced amino acid sequences were 54-66% homologous to the corresponding segments of their Escherichia coli counterparts. This method provides a useful means of cloning genes encoding DNA replication enzymes of mycobacteria.
A rapid and sensitive PCR strategy employed for amplification and sequencing of porA from a single colony-forming unit of Neisseria meningitidis.	The predicted amino acid sequence was determined for the class-1 outer membrane protein, PorA, from a B:15:P1.7,3 strain of Neisseria meningitidis that is currently causing an epidemic of meningitis in Northern Chile. The P1.7,3 PorA showed a unique sequence in the exposed loop 4 of the putative porin structure that is different from all the reported PorA sequences. Based on the nucleotide (nt) sequence of the P1.7,3 porA, we designed two sets of PCR (polymerase chain reaction) primers that specifically amplified porA from any N. meningitidis strain, and a third set of primers that amplified porA only from the P1.7,3 strain. Using these primers, we developed a sensitive double hot-start nested PCR (HNPCR) strategy that could amplify porA and generate nt sequence from as low as a single colony-forming unit. This strategy consisted of three phases of PCR. The first two phases were designed to generate amplified target DNA that could be directly visualized by ethidium bromide staining starting from one to two molecules of Neisseria genome. The third phase was designed to generate a sequence of several hundred nt directly from the amplified DNA. A number of culture-negative cerebrospinal fluid samples from individuals suspected of meningitis during a vaccine trial were analyzed by this strategy to obtain more accurate information on the actual number of cases that occurred in the study and the non-study populations. The basic HNPCR strategy described here could be applied to amplify and sequence target DNAs from any low-copy-number biological sample.
Identification of common motifs in unaligned DNA sequences: application to Escherichia coli Lrp regulon.	We describe a relatively simple method for the identification of common motifs in DNA sequences that are known to share a common function. The input sequences are unaligned and there is no information regarding the position or orientation of the motif. Often such data exists for protein-binding regions, where genetic or molecular information that defines the binding region is available, but the specific recognition site within it is unknown. The method is based on the principle of 'divide and conquer'; we first search for dominant submotifs and then build full-length motifs around them. This method has several useful features: (i) it screens all submotifs so that the results are independent of the sequence order in the data; (ii) it allows the submotifs to contain spacers; (iii) it identifies an existing motif even if the data contains 'noise'; (iv) its running time depends linearly on the total length of the input. The method is demonstrated on two groups of protein-binding sequences: a well-studied group of known CRP-binding sequences, and a relatively newly identified group of genes known to be regulated by Lrp. The Lrp motif that we identify, based on 23 gene sequences, is similar to a previously identified motif based on a smaller data set, and to a consensus sequence of experimentally defined binding sites. Individual Lrp sites are evaluated and compared in regard to their regulation mode.
DNASTAT: a Pascal unit for the statistical analysis of DNA and protein sequences.	DNASTAT is a collection of Pascal routines for researchers who develop their own application programs for statistical analysis of DNA and protein sequences. Dynamic and file-based data structures allow users to process sets of sequences by simple loop control without limitations on the number of sequences and their individual sizes. This frees the programmer from potentially error-prone tasks like dynamic memory allocation and controlling array sizes. Sequences can be stored in databases along with biological and statistical attributes. Individual sequences can be accessed by column name and row number as with spread-sheets. DNASTAT allows large sets of sequences to be processed using a PC with standard configuration. Its small size, simplicity and free availability make it attractive to students of mathematical biology. Use of DNASTAT is illustrated by two sample programs that generate a database of coding regions from the GenBank entry of the tobacco chloroplast genome. A version of DNASTAT written in ANSI-C for PCs and Unix workstations is also available.
Positional sequencing by hybridization.	Sequencing by hybridization (SBH) is a promising alternative to the classical DNA sequencing approaches. However, the resolving power of SBH is rather low: with 64kb sequencing chips, unknown DNA fragments only as long as 200 bp can be reconstructed in a single SBH experiment. To improve the resolving power of SBH, positional SBH (PSBH) has recently been suggested; this allows (with additional experimental work) approximate positions of every l-tuple in a target DNA fragment to be measured. We study the positional Eulerian path problem motivated by PSBH. The input to the positional eulerian path problem is an Eulerian graph G(V, E) in which every edge has an associated range of integers and the problem is to find an Eulerian path e1,...,e/E/ in G such that the range of ei contains i. We show that the positional Eulerian path problem is NP-complete even when the maximum out-degree (in-degree) of any vertex in the graph is 2. On a positive note we present polynomial algorithms to solve a special case of PSBH (bounded PSBH), where the range of the allowed positions for any edge is bounded by a constant (it corresponds to accurate experimental measurements of positions in PSBH). Moreover, if the positions of every l-tuple in an unknown DNA fragment of length n are measured with O(log n) error, then our algorithm runs in polynomial time. We also present an estimate of the resolving power of PSBH for a more realistic case when positions are measured with theta (n) error.
Two-dimensional graphical representation of DNA sequences and intron-exon discrimination in intron-rich sequences.	We have shown earlier that analysis of DNA sequences using a two-dimensional graphical representation provides considerable information on new global sequence patterns and homologies, repeated structures, relative base abundances, probable evolutionary paths and evolutionary divergence. We have also reported that at a more micro level the graphical representation reveals distinct differences in the features of intron and exon segments of eukaryotic sequences. In this paper, the distinguishing features of the intron and exon segments are exploited to show, through several examples of different gene structures, that an averaging procedure over the slopes of the representative maps provides an easy technique to differentiate between probable intron and exon regions. We thus expect that this method will enable a rapid search and preliminary indication of possible locations of protein coding regions in long eukaryotic sequences.
Identification of functional elements in unaligned nucleic acid sequences by a novel tuple search algorithm.	We present an algorithm to identify potential functional elements like protein binding sites in DNA sequences, solely from nucleotide sequence data. Prerequisites are a set of at least seven not closely related sequences with a common biological function which is correlated to one or more unknown sequence elements present in most but not necessarily all of the sequences. The algorithm is based on a search for n-tuples which occur at least in a minimum percentage of the sequences with no or one mismatch, which may be at any position of the tuple. In contrast to functional tuples, random tuples show no preferred pattern of mismatch locations within the tuple nor is the conservation extended beyond the tuple. Both features of functional tuples are used to eliminate random tuples. Selection is carried out by maximization of the information content first for the n-tuple, then for a region containing the tuple and finally for the complete binding site. Further matches are found in an additional selection step, using the ConsInd method previously described. The algorithm is capable of identifying and delimiting elements (e.g. protein binding sites) represented by single short cores (e.g. TATA box) in sets of unaligned sequences of about 500 nucleotides using no information other than the nucleotide sequences. Furthermore, we show its ability to identify multiple elements in a set of complete LTR sequences (more than 600 nucleotides per sequence).
PCR with random primers to obtain sequence from yeast artificial chromosome insert ends or plasmids.	A technique that can be used to isolate vector/insert junctions from clones in vectors, such as yeast artificial chromosomes and P1s, and to sequence plasmid inserts more rapidly has been developed. A vector primer is combined with single, randomly chosen oligonucleotides in PCRs, to create pools of products. With 12-24 random primers used in separate reactions, a given insert junction can frequently be isolated. For plasmid inserts, multiple products are created that can be sequenced from their random-primed ends to provide internal coverage for a clone. It is often possible to sequence a significant portion of an insert with one set of reactions. The speed and simplicity of the method in each case and its use of existing techniques and reagents make it appealing.
High-quality automated DNA sequencing primed with hexamer strings.	The finishing phase of genome sequencing projects is expensive, in part, because of the cost of de novo synthesis of custom primers and the management burden associated with obtaining and using them for primer walking. One approach to reduce these high costs is the use of a presynthesized library of short oligonucleotides (8-10 bases) rather than long primers. The use of such a library eliminates the need for custom synthesis of oligonucleotides, providing the convenience of priming from any site by combining two to three short oligonucleotides to form a string with the required specificity. The first practical implementation of this strategy presented a robust protocol for using hexamer strings with radioisotopic labelling. Whereas versions of this technique have subsequently been implemented on fluorescent sequencers we felt that there was a need to develop and extensively test a protocol that consistently gave read lengths comparable to dye-terminator sequencing with longer primers. We have developed a new two-cycle fluorescent Sequenase terminator procedure for using hexamer strings. We tested this procedure using a set of 32 different 3 hexamer primer strings, each known to be functional to some degree in radioisotopic sequencing, on single-stranded M13mp18 template and ABI 373 DNA sequencers. The overall success rate of priming with these hexamer primer strings is 97% with the failure of only one string. In this case, the corresponding 18-mer primer also failed to produce usable sequence from M13mp18 template. The average read length from reactions successfully primed with the 31 different hexamer strings was 461 bases with > 99% base-calling accuracy. The current protocol is robust enough to be used in virtually any situation where primer walking on single-stranded templates is used. The success rate and read lengths make it universally applicable to the sequencing of single-stranded templates on automated sequencers. It is also amenable to automation.
Heterozygote and mutation detection by direct automated fluorescent DNA sequencing using a mutant Taq DNA polymerase.	We describe a method for direct cycle sequencing of PCR fragments amplified from genomic DNA or cDNA. DNA sequencing template is amplified using PCR and oligonucleotide primers flanking the region of interest. The amplified fragment is directly cycle sequenced using fluorescent sequencing primers, Sanger dideoxy sequencing chemistry and an enzyme mixture of a mutant Taq DNA polymerase and thermostable pyrophosphatase. The sequence ladders produced are analyzed on a real-time, automated four-color sequencing system. The method produces sequence ladders from unpurified PCR fragments of sufficiently high quality such that heterozygotes can be reproducibly detected and identified by software that recognizes signal-strength patterns indicative of mixed-base positions.
Interpretation of oligonucleotide mass spectra for determination of sequence using electrospray ionization and tandem mass spectrometry.	Procedures are described for interpretation of mass spectra from collision-induced dissociation of polycharged oligonucleotides produced by electrospray ionization. The method is intended for rapid sequencing of oligonucleotides of completely unknown structure at approximately the 15-mer level and below, from DNA or RNA. Identification of sequence-relevant ions that are produced from extensive fragmentation in the quadrupole collision cell are based primarily on (1) recognition of 3'- and 5'- terminal residues as initial steps in mass ladder propagation, (2) alignment of overlapping nucleotide chains that have been constructed independently from each terminus, and (3) use of experimentally measured molecular mass in rejection of incorrect sequence candidates. Algorithms for sequence derivation are embodied in a computer program that requires < 2s for execution. The interpretation procedures are demonstrated for sequence location of simple forms of modification in the base and sugar. The potential for direct sequencing of components of mixtures is shown using an unresolved fraction of unknown oligonucleotides from ribosomal RNA.
Oligonucleotide sequence and composition determined by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization.	Molecular weight measurements of several oligonucleotides ranging in size from 12 to 60 bases were performed by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization with a time-of-flight mass spectrometer (MALDI-TOF). In each case, the mass accuracy was better than 0.1%. Sequences for two 12-base oligonucleotides and a 24-base oligonucleotide were determined using calf spleen phosphodiesterase to sequentially cleave from the 5' end. A MALDI-TOF spectrum of the digest mixture shortly after the addition of the enzyme produced a characteristic oligonucleotide ladder. Molecular ions in the mass spectrum corresponded to the products of enzymatic cleavage, and the mass differences between these peaks identified the individual nucleotides. The resolution and mass accuracy of MALDI-TOF were sufficient to unambiguously identify the individual nucleotides in the 12- and 24-base strands.
Fiber bundle based scanning detection system for automated DNA sequencing.	High-throughput DNA sequencing techniques are under rapid development currently, mainly triggered by the Human Genome Project. At the present time, slab gel based automated DNA sequencing is the standard procedure, utilizing fluorophore labeling and laser-induced fluorescence detection with scanning technology. In this paper, a novel, fiber-optic bundle based detection system is introduced, where a central illuminating fiber is used for the excitation of the electrophoretically separated fluorophore-labeled DNA sequencing fragments, along with several collecting fibers disposed around the illuminating fiber to collect the emitted fluorescent signal. As a model system, Cy5-labeled DNA sequencing fragments were separated on an ultrathin polyacrylamide slab gel and detected by the fiber bundle based laser-induced fluorescence detection system. A 640-nm diode laser was used to generate the illumination beam, and the emitted light collected by the fiber bundle was detected by a solid-state avalanche photodiode.
Peak height pattern in dichloro-rhodamine and energy transfer dye terminator sequencing.	Establishing the pattern in peak heights within local sequence contexts improves the accuracy of base calling and the identification of DNA sequence variations in dye-terminator cycle sequencing. We have systematically examined pairs of sequence-tagged sites (STSs) that vary at only a single nucleotide to determine how base changes influence the peak heights of neighboring bases in sequencing traces generated by two recently commercialized dye-terminator chemistries, the dichloro-rhodamine (dRhodamine) and the energy transfer (BigDye) terminators. For sequencing traces generated with the dRhodamine terminators, the peak height of a particular base in 28 of 64 possible 3-base windows (44%) can be predicted by knowing just one or two bases 5' to the base in question. For those generated with the BigDye terminators, the peak height of a particular base in 23 of 64 possible 3-base windows (36%) can be predicted by knowing the local sequence context. When the peak heights are binned slightly differently, 75% (48 out of 64 cases) of the base peaks generated by both dRhodamine and BigDye terminators fall in the middle half, confirming that the peak patterns of these two new dye terminator chemistries are much more even than those found in the original rhodamine dye terminator sequences.
Quantitation of mixed-base populations of HIV-1 variants by automated DNA sequencing with BODIPY dye-labeled primers.	Direct DNA sequencing of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) pol and env gene regions was characterized for accuracy and precision. Restricted maximum likelihood (REML) analysis of molecular clone reconstruction experiments using a primer-walking strategy showed that the BODIPY and BODIPY energy-transfer (BET) dye primers sets were significantly more accurate in quantitating heterogenous base mixtures than the fluorescein/rhodamine dye primers. Of the three sets examined, the BET dye primers were the most accurate. The improved accuracy correlated with the reduced emission band-widths of BODIPY and BET dye primers and the more uniform signal intensities of BET dye primers. However, comparing % coefficients of variation (CV) for the three dye primer sets, revealed that BODIPY dye primers gave better precision than both BET and fluorescein/rhodamine dye primer sets. Several sequence-dependent motifs were identified that showed specific nucleotide-biased incorporation and were determined to be the major variable component of the total %CV. Taken together, these results show that BODIPY and BET direct DNA sequencing can accurately and precisely characterize complex mixed-base populations.
Purification and properties of the 5'-3' exonuclease D10A mutant of DNA polymerase I from Streptococcus pneumoniae: a new tool for DNA sequencing.	A D10A mutation was introduced at the 5'-3' exonuclease domain of Streptococcus pneumoniae DNA polymerase I by site directed mutagenesis of the polA gene. Introduction of the mutation resulted in a drastic decrease of the 5'-3' exonucleolytic activity present in the wild-type enzyme. Moreover, the mutation at the D10 residue of the pneumococcal polymerase affected the dependency on metal activation of its 5'-3' exonucleolytic activity. These results provide experimental support for the proposed direct involvement of this Asp residue in a metal-assisted 5'-3' exonucleolytic reaction in type I-like bacterial DNA polymerases and related bacteriophage 5'-3' exonucleases. The D10A mutant polypeptide retained the polymerase activity of its parental enzyme, it is able to incorporate correctly nucleotides in a DNA template, and efficiently uses labeled and unlabeled nucleotides analogues in DNA sequencing by the dideoxy-chain-termination method. These characteristics convert this polymerase into a useful tool for manual and automatic sequencing.
Structure of Bcl-1 and IgH-CDR3 rearrangements as clonal markers in mantle cell lymphomas.	Mantle cell lymphoma represent a clinicopathologically distinct entity of malignant non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) and are characterized by a specific chromosomal translocation t(11;14)(q13;q32) involving the cyclin D1 gene also designated as bcl-1/PRAD1 gene on chromosome 11 and the heavy chain immunoglobulin joining region on chromosome 14. We have established a PCR method to amplify t(11;14) junctional sequences in DNA from fresh frozen and paraffin-embedded tissue by bcl-1-specific primers in combination with a consensus immunoglobulin JH primer. A total of 65 cases histologically classified as mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) were analyzed for the presence of a t(11;14) translocation and monoclonal IgH-CDR3 rearrangements. From 26 patients with classical MCL and three cases with the anaplastic variant of MCL fresh frozen biopsy material was available for DNA extraction. We detected a bcl-1/JH rearrangement in 12 out of 29 samples (41%). In 36 cases paraffin-embedded lymph node tissue was the only source of DNA. In this material we found a bcl-1/JH rearrangement in six out of 31 samples with intact DNA (20%). To confirm the specificity of the PCR and to determine the bcl-1/JH junctional region sequences as clone-specific marker in individual patients we characterized the junctional DNA sequences by direct PCR sequencing in 16 cases. Interestingly we found that six bcl-1/JH junctions harbored DH segments in their N regions indicating that bcl-1/JH rearrangements can occur in a later stage of B cell ontogeny during which the complete VH to DH-JH joining or VH-replacement takes place. To investigate the suitability of IgH-CDR3 as sensitive molecular marker for those MCL patients in which a t(11;14) translocation can not easily be amplified, we additionally analysed 60 cases for the presence of monoclonally rearranged IgH genes by IgH-CDR3-PCR. A monoclonal IgH-CDR3 PCR product could be identified in 24 out of 29 fresh frozen samples (79%) whereas only 11 out of 31 samples (36%) with paraffin-derived DNA were positive. We demonstrate that automated fluorescence detection of monoclonal IgH-CDR3 PCR products allows the rapid and sensitive monitoring of minimal residual disease also in cases that lack a PCR amplifiable t(11;14) translocation. In combination with allele-specific primers the procedure may improve current experimental approaches for detection of occult MCL cells at initial staging and residual disease during and after therapy.
Urea improves efficiency of bisulphite-mediated sequencing of 5'-methylcytosine in genomic DNA.	The detection of 5'-methylcytosine by the bisulphite-mediated genomic sequencing method has considerably aided study of the role of methylation in areas such as X chromosome inactivation, genomic imprinting and cancer research. However on occasion difficulty has been experienced in obtaining complete conversion of cytosine to uracil in regions of the target DNA. We report here a simple improvement to the method involving addition of urea to the bisulphite reaction, a step which greatly improves the reaction efficiency, presumably by maintaining the target DNA in single stranded form, thereby allowing complete and reliable conversion.
Identification of point mutations in mixtures by capillary electrophoresis hybridization.	We have developed a rapid method for unambiguous identification and mutant fraction determination of individual mutants in mixtures of DNA sequence variants each differing by one or a few nucleotides. This method has applications to such diverse areas as interpretation of mutational spectra, screening of populations for polymorphisms and identification of species in environmental mixtures. In our approach, a mixture of unknown sequences labeled with a fluorescent dye is combined with a set of predetermined sequences (standards) representing the variants to be assayed. Labeling the standards with another dye allows the two sets of variants to be measured independently. Using constant denaturing capillary electrophoresis, the sequence variants are separated as individual peaks on the basis of differential melting equilibria. The unknown sequence variants are initially identified based on co-migration with particular standards. This preliminary identification is verified by hybridization of the unknown variants with the co-migrating standards within the capillary. We demonstrate the use of capillary electrophoresis hybridization to dissect complex mutational spectra of human cells in culture.
Toward a complete human genome sequence.	We have begun a joint program as part of a coordinated international effort to determine a complete human genome sequence. Our strategy is to map large-insert bacterial clones and to sequence each clone by a random shotgun approach followed by directed finishing. As of September 1998, we have identified the map positions of bacterial clones covering approximately 860 Mb for sequencing and completed >98 Mb ( approximately 3.3%) of the human genome sequence. Our progress and sequencing data can be accessed via the World Wide Web (http://webace.sanger.ac.uk/HGP/ or http://genome.wustl.edu/gsc/).
DNA short tandem repeat profiling of Chinese population in Taiwan determined by using an automated sequencer.	We performed a population study on a Taiwan population using a set of nine short tandem repeat (STR) loci and the amelogenin locus. Allele and genotype frequencies of the STR systems D3S1358, vWA, FGA, TH01, TPOX, CSF1PO, D5S818, D13S317 and D7S820 were determined by polymerase chain reaction followed by automated sequencer analysis. A total of 80 alleles could be observed, using all systems, in a population of 500 individuals. No new intermediate fragments were found in these systems. Allele frequencies showed no deviation from the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. The mean exclusion power (MEP) ranged from 0.294 for TPOX to 0.711 for FGA (the combined MEP was > 0.999), the discriminating power (DP) ranged from 0.782 for TPOX to 0.964 for FGA, (the combined DP was > 0.99999999949).
Italian population data on thirteen short tandem repeat loci: HUMTH01, D21S11, D18S51, HUMVWFA31, HUMFIBRA, D8S1179, HUMTPOX, HUMCSF1PO, D16S539, D7S820, D13S317, D5S818, D3S1358.	A population study on thirteen short tandem repeat (STR) loci was performed on 223 unrelated Italian Caucasians. The DNA was amplified by PCR. Separation and detection of the amplified STR fragments was carried out by use of 377 automated system (Applied Biosystems Division/Perkin Elmer). All loci meet Hardy-Weinberg expectations, and the data show only five departures out of seventy-eight pairwise locus tests which is close to expectations of 5% (5/78 = 6.4%). When correcting for multiple tests, there is little evidence for departures from expectations between loci. The combined Power of Exclusion for the thirteen STR loci is 0.99999270. The results demonstrate that these loci will be very useful for human identification in forensic cases in Italy.
Tandem repeat structure of the duplicated Y-chromosomal STR locus DYS385 and frequency studies in the German and three Asian populations.	The Y-chromosomal short tandem repeat (STR) locus DYS385 can be typed using PCR amplification and separation of the resulting polymorphic fragments by non-denaturing high resolution polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis followed by silver staining. The PCR primers amplify a duplicated repeat sequence on the Y chromosome revealing a two-band pattern in male individuals. To determine the internal repeat structure as a basis for a consensus nomenclature, DNA sequence analysis was carried out after subcloning of PCR-amplified fragments revealing the uniform 4-bp repeat structure 'GAAA'. The shortest allele observed consisted of 10 repeat units thus providing the basis for the designation 'allele 10'. Except for isolated point mutations, no systematic differences could be observed either in the repeat sequence or in the flanking regions between the two fragments of a given individual. Thus it was not possible to discriminate between the two loci of the DYS385 system. Four population samples of German (n = 146), Chinese (n = 100), Japanese (n = 100), and Thai (n = 95) origin were studied. In the four groups, alleles 10 to 24 could be observed and genotype frequencies differed significantly. In Germans only one common genotype was present (11-14; 33.8% frequency). In the Asian populations, the frequencies were more evenly distributed with the 13-13 genotype (9%) in Chinese, the 13-17 genotype (14%) in Japanese and the 14-18 genotype (7%) in Thai being the most common. Overall, 69 different genotypes were found, of these 36 were observed in Germans, 36 in Chinese, 33 in Japanese and 44 in Thai. No mutations were detected in 62 father-son pairs. Thus DYS385 is a highly polymorphic STR system with population-specific genotype distributions.
Subdivision of the Escherichia coli K-12 genome for sequencing: manipulation and DNA sequence of transposable elements introducing unique restriction sites.	A transposon-based method of introducing unique restriction sites was used for subdivision of the Escherichia coli genome into a contiguous series of large non-overlapping segments spanning 2.5Mb. The segments, sizes ranging from 150 to 250kb, were isolated from the chromosome using the inserted restriction sites and shotgun cloned into an M13 vector for DNA sequencing. These shotgun sizes proved easily manageable, allowing the genomic sequence of E. coli to be completed more efficiently and rapidly than was possible by previously available methods. The 9bp duplication generated during transposition was used as a tag for accurate splicing of the segments; no further sequence redundancy at the junction sites was needed. The system is applicable to larger genomes even if they are not already well-characterized. We present the technology for segment sequencing, results of applying this method to E. coli, and the sequences of the transposon cassettes.
Genomic DNA sequencing by SPEL-6 primer walking using hexamer ligation.	DNA sequencing by SPEL-6 (Sequential Primer Elongation by Ligation of 6-mers) primer walking is based on the rapid assembly of true primers by ligation of several (three to 10) contiguous hexamers complementary to a DNA template saturated with Escherichia coli single-stranded DNA-binding protein. To prove the usefulness and to check the reliability of this method, a 3-kb DNA fragment carrying the genes encoding the EcoVIII restriction-modification (RM) system was sequenced with low redundancy (2.8). The use of both single-stranded (ss) and double-stranded (ds) DNA templates was compared. For this project, 27 primers were assembled by hexamer ligation to form 18-30-nt strings of three to five hexamers. Each primer was designed based on nucleotide sequence determined in a previous run, and was produced in a matter of minutes. The overall length of the easily readable sequencing ladders was about 300-450nt. We found that strong secondary structures in the ss DNA tend to interfere with its template function for the primer assembly by hexamer ligation, especially when they overlap the 3'-end of such a primer. This was easily overcome either by avoiding such hairpin regions or by using longer strings of hexamers, since we show that their ligation is highly cooperative, and ligation efficiency increases with the length of the string (). Some general rules for successful primer assembly and prospects for using the SPEL-6 method for large-scale, fully automated fluorescent sequencing of large genomes are discussed.
Mass spectrometric sequencing of site-specific carcinogen-modified oligodeoxyribonucleotides containing bulky benzo[a]pyrene diol epoxide-deoxyguanosyl adducts.	Site-specific carcinogen-modified oligonucleotides are often used in site-directed mutagenesis and other biological and biochemical studies of structure-function relationships. Postsynthetic analysis and confirmation of the sites of carcinogen binding in such oligonucleotides is an important step in the characterization of these site-specific carcinogen-DNA adducts. It is shown here that negative ion mode electrospray tandem mass spectrometry methods and collision-induced dissociation offer a rapid and convenient approach for the sequencing of products derived from the reaction of the carcinogenic and mutagenic metabolite of benzo[a]pyrene, the diol epoxide r7,t8-dihydroxy-t9,10-epoxy-7,8,9,10-tetrahydrobenzo[a]pyrene (anti-BPDE), with the 11-mer oligonucleotide d(CATGCGGCCTAC). The site of reaction of anti-BPDE with either one of the three dG residues in this oligonucleotide can be accurately established by comparing the mass/charge ratios of the observed collision-induced dissociation fragments with calculated values.
Finite-size effects on long-range correlations:  implications for analyzing DNA sequences.	We analyze the fluctuations in the correlation exponents obtained for noncoding DNA sequences.  We find prominent sample-to-sample variations as well as variations within a single sample in the scaling exponent.  To determine if these fluctuations may result from finite system size, we generate correlated random sequences of comparable length and study the fluctuations in this control system.  We find that the DNA exponent fluctuations are consistent with those obtained from the control sequences having long-range power-law correlations.  Finally, we compare our exponents for the DNA sequences with the exponents obtained from power-spectrum analysis and correlation-function techniques, and demonstrate that the original "DNA-walk" method is intrinsically more accurate due to reduced noise.
Generalized Lvy-walk model for DNA nucleotide sequences.	We propose a generalized Lvy walk to model fractal landscapes observed in noncoding DNA sequences.  We find that this model provides a very close approximation to the empirical data and explains a number of statistical properties of genomic DNA sequences such as the distribution of strand-biased regions (those with an excess of one type of nucleotide) as well as local changes in the slope of the correlation exponent alpha.  The generalized Lvy-walk model simultaneously accounts for the long-range correlations in noncoding DNA sequences and for the apparently paradoxical finding of long subregions of biased random walks (length lj) within these correlated sequences.  In the generalized Lvy-walk model, the lj are chosen from a power-law distribution P(lj) varies as lj(-mu).  The correlation exponent alpha is related to mu through alpha = 2-mu/2 if 2 < mu < 3.  The model is consistent with the finding of "repetitive elements" of variable length interspersed within noncoding DNA.
