PCR as a diagnostic and quantitative technique in veterinary parasitology.	Over the past 15 years, there has been a dramatic evolution in molecular approaches to study parasites and parasitic diseases. Many of these advancements have been brought about through the development of new applications of the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Enhancements in sensitivity that can be achieved using PCR now permit scientists to investigate changes at the level of a single cell, far below what is often needed for parasite-derived applications. PCR has had a substantial impact on advances made in the areas of parasite systematics and epidemiology, immunology and host-parasite interactions, recombinant DNA vaccine development and most recently, the analysis of whole genomes either through directly sequencing the DNA, the analysis of expressed sequence tags (ESTs) or through the rapidly growing field of functional genomics. This paper, however, focuses on the application of PCR methodology to parasite detection and differentiation, and the diagnosis of disease. Specific attention is given to advances provided by multiplex PCR, fluorescence-based "real-time" PCR, and the utilization of PCR as a quantitative technique.
Mikrocytos roughleyi taxonomic affiliation leads to the genus Bonamia (Haplosporidia).	Microcell-type parasites of oysters are associated with a complex of diseases in different oyster species around the world. The etiological agents are protists of very small size that are very difficult to characterize taxonomically. Associated lesions may vary according to the host species, and their occurrence may be related to variations in tissue structure. Lesion morphology cannot be used to distinguish the different agents involved. Ultrastructural observations on Mikrocytos roughleyi revealed similarities with Bonamia spp., particularly in regard to the presence of electron-dense haplosporosomes and mitochondria, whose absence from M. mackini also indicate that M. roughleyi and M. mackini are not congeneric. A partial small subunit (ssu) rRNA gene sequence of M. roughleyi was determined. This partial sequence, 951 nucleotides in length, has 95.2 and 98.4% sequence similarities with B. ostreae and B. exitiosus ssu rDNA sequences, respectively. Polymorphisms among the ssu rDNA sequences of B. ostreae, B. exitiosus and M. roughleyi allowed identification of restriction enzyme digestion patterns diagnostic for each species. Phylogenetic analysis based on the ssu rDNA data suggested that M. roughleyi belongs in the phylum Haplosporidia and that it is closely related to Bonamia spp. On the basis of ultrastructural and molecular considerations, M. roughleyi should be considered a putative member of the genus Bonamia.
Actinomyces hyovaginalis associated with disseminated necrotic lung lesions in slaughter pigs.	Lungs from 26 slaughter pigs with a diagnosis of pyaemic lung lesions (disseminated necrotic lesions and abscesses), as determined at post-mortem meat inspection, were subjected to a thorough examination, including re-evaluation of gross pathology and histopathological and microbiological examination of samples from multiple lesions. The pulmonary lesions, which appeared identical on gross inspection, could be divided into three histopathological types, namely (1) abscesses, (2) circumscribed (contained) necrotic lesions, and (3) bronchiolar ectasias. Some characteristic relations between bacterial species and histopathological type were demonstrated. Thus, abscesses were dominated by Staphylococcus aureus infections, and circumscribed (contained) necrotic lesions were dominated by infections with an Actinomyces species, identified as Actinomyces hyovaginalis by 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Actinomyces hyovaginalis was demonstrated in 23% of all cases, pointing to this organism as an important agent of disseminated lung lesions of pigs. Furthermore, a characteristic pyogranulomatous reaction with a central area of necrosis was found to be associated with this infection.
Genetic variations of the porcine PRKAG3 gene in Chinese indigenous pig breeds.	Four missense substitutions (T30N, G52S, V199I and R200Q) in the porcine PRKAG3 gene were considered as the likely candidate loci affecting meat quality. In this study, the R200Q substitution was investigated in a sample of 62 individuals from Hampshire, Chinese Min and Erhualian pigs, and the genetic variations of T30N, G52S and V199I substitutions were detected in 1505 individuals from 21 Chinese indigenous breeds, 5 Western commercial pig breeds, and the wild pig. Allele 200R was fixed in Chinese Min and Erhualian pigs. Haplotypes II-QQ and IV-QQ were not observed in the Hampshire population, supporting the hypothesis that allele 200Q is tightly linked with allele 199V. Significant differences in allele frequencies of the three substitutions (T30N, G52S and V199I) between Chinese indigenous pigs and Western commercial pigs were observed. Obvious high frequencies of the "favorable" alleles 30T and 52G in terms of meat quality were detected in Chinese indigenous pigs, which are well known for high meat quality. However, the frequency of the "favorable" allele 199I, which was reported to have a greater effect on meat quality in comparison with 30T and 52G, was very low in all of the Chinese indigenous pigs except for the Min pig. The reasons accounting for this discrepancy remain to be addressed. The presence of the three substitutions in purebred Chinese Tibetan pigs indicates that the three substitutions were ancestral mutations. A novel A/G substitution at position 51 in exon 1 was identified. The results suggest that further studies are required to investigate the associations of these substitutions in the PRKAG3 gene with meat quality of Chinese indigenous pigs, and to uncover other polymorphisms in the PRKAG3 gene with potential effects on meat quality in Chinese indigenous pigs.
Molecular cloning and characterization of chicken tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-superfamily ligands, CD30L and TNF-related apoptosis inducing ligand (TRAIL).	CD30 ligand (CD30L) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-related apoptosis inducing ligand (TRAIL) are members of the TNF-superfamily that have many important biological activities in cell proliferation and apoptotic death. In this study, both genes in the chicken were cloned and their expression was analyzed. Complementary DNA fragments were obtained from a suppressive subtractive hybridization library with or without lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulation. Chicken CD30L consists of 1,152 base pairs (bp) with an open reading frame (ORF) of 720 bp having 36.4% identity with human CD30L, whereas chicken TRAIL is 1,134 bp long with an ORF of 912 bp having 54.4% identity with human TRAIL. Chicken CD30L was expressed at high levels in the spleen, bursa of Fabricius and in the chicken monocytic leukemia cell line, IN24. Stimulation with LPS in the spleen, bursa of Fabricius and the IN24 cell line did not affect CD30L expression. The gene expression of chicken TRAIL was essentially to the same level in all tissues examined. The time course of expression was not significantly altered by LPS-stimulation in the spleen, thymus and bursa of Fabricius, but reached a maximal level 8 hr after stimulation in the IN24 cell line. The high level expression of both genes in lymphoid organs and IN24 cell line indicates that chicken CD30L and TRAIL may also play an important role in apoptotic signal transduction and the regulation of cell proliferation in the immune system.
Molecular characterization of Sp serotype strains of infectious pancreatic necrosis virus exhibiting differences in virulence.	Infectious pancreatic necrosis virus (IPNV), a prototype virus of the family Birnaviridae, exhibits a high degree of antigenic variability, pathogenicity and virulence in salmonid species. The Genomic Segment A encodes all the structural (VP2 and VP3) and nonstructural (NS) proteins, whereas Segment B encodes the viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (VP1). We tested 3 different IPNV isolates (Sp103, Sp116 and Sp122) isolated during field outbreaks in Norway for their ability to cause mortality in fry and post-smolt of Atlantic salmon Salmo salar L. The cumulative mortality following experimental challenge in fry was 29% for Sp122 followed by 19% for Sp116 and 15% for Sp103. In post-smolt, the corresponding mortality rates were 79, 46 and 16%, respectively. Comparisons of the deduced amino acid sequences of Segments A and B of all 3 Sp strains revealed substitutions of residues in 13 positions, of which 6 are in VP2, 2 in VP3, and 5 in VP1. Our results suggest that these residues, especially those in the outer capsid VP2, may be involved in the virulence of IPNV. Genome Segment A of the Sp serotype is 3097 nucleotides long and contains a major open reading frame (ORF) encoding a polyprotein of 972 amino acids, which initiates at the second in-frame start codon at Position 119. This was ascertained by making mutants of Segment A clone using site-directed mutagenesis, followed by in vitro transcription-coupled translation reaction and immunoprecipitation analyses. In addition, Segment A also encodes a 15 kDa arginine-rich non-structural protein from a small ORF, preceding and partially overlapping the polyprotein ORF, which is truncated to 12 kDa in the virulent Sp122 strain. Moreover, Segment A could encode a novel, putative 25 kDa protein from another ORF between VP2 and VP4 coding regions, which is only detected in the Sp serotype. Segment B is 2777 nucleotides long and encodes in a single large ORF (a polypeptide of 844 amino acid residues), VP1.
Strain variation and geographic endemism in Streptococcus iniae.	Twenty-six Israeli isolates of Streptococcus iniae from both marine and fresh/brackish water sources were compared with each other and with 9 foreign isolates. All the isolates were tentatively identified according to their biochemical profile. Direct sequencing of approximately 600 bp PCR products of the 16S rDNA confirmed their identification as S. iniae at the molecular level and revealed a new (one-nucleotide) variant among Israeli isolates, in addition to 2 variants that had been previously reported. Strain variation was further examined by subjecting the isolates to randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) analyses. The RAPD method allowed separation of the isolates into only 2 groups, one including 5 Israeli fresh/brackish water isolates and one including all the other isolates. The AFLP method grouped the Israeli marine isolates into one homogeneous cluster, although they had been obtained in different years (1995 to 2001) from different species of fish, and from wild (Red Sea) as well as cultured (both Mediterranean and Red Sea) sources. The Israeli fresh/brackish water isolates and foreign isolates separated into distinct entities that clustered at generally high degrees of similarity. The distance between the clusters of the Israeli marine and fresh/brackish water isolates indicates that the S. iniae streptococcosis that has been afflicting the aquaculture industries in the 2 environments in recent years was caused by distinct strains. AFLP showed superior discriminative properties over RAPD in detecting intraspecific variation and proved to be an important tool for the characterization of S. iniae. A correlation between strain variation and geographic endemism was established.
Allelic variants of the canine heavy neurofilament (NFH) subunit and extensive phosphorylation in dogs with motor neuron disease.	Aberrant accumulation of extensively phosphorylated heavy (high molecular weight) neurofilament (NFH) and neurodegeneration are features of hereditary canine spinal muscular atrophy (HCSMA), an animal model of human motor neuron disease. In this study, the canine NFH gene was mapped, cloned, and sequenced, and electrospray/mass spectrometry was used to evaluate the phosphorylation state of NFH protein from normal dogs and dogs with HCSMA. The canine NFH gene was localized to a region on canine chromosome 26 that corresponds to human NFH on chromosome 22q. The predicted length of the canine NFH protein is 1135 amino acids, and it shares an 80.3% identity with human NFH and >74.6% with murine NFH proteins. Direct sequencing of NFH cDNA from HCSMA dogs revealed no mutations, although cDNA sequence and restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis indicates that there are at least three canine NFH alleles, differing in the position and number (61 or 62) of Lys-Ser-Proline (KSP) motifs. The two longest alleles (L1 and L2), each with 62 KSP repeats, contain an additional 24-base insert and were observed in both normal and HCSMA dogs. However, the shorter allele (the C allele), with 61 KSP sites and lacking the 24-base insertion, was absent in dogs with HCSMA. Mass spectrometry data indicated that almost all of the NFH KSP phosphorylation sites were occupied. No new or extra sites were identified in native NFH purified from the HCSMA dogs. The predominance of the two longest NFH alleles and the additional KSP phosphorylation sites they confer probably account for the presence of extensively phosphorylated NFs detected immunohistochemically in dogs with HCSMA.
Cutaneous papillomatosis in cattle.	Three of four heifers housed together developed multiple cutaneous tumours in the linea alba and on the teats 3 months after the application of plastic muzzle plates with sharp tips to prevent mutual sucking and licking. Fibropapilloma with many koilocytes but few intranuclear inclusions was diagnosed histologically. The dermis showed neoplastic fibroblasts and a structureless intercellular matrix, and nonpurulent vasculitis was also recorded. Immunohistochemical examination with an antibody against L1 papillomavirus antigen demonstrated intranuclear positivity in single cells of the granular and cornified layers and in many mesenchymal cells in the fibrous parts of the tumours. CD3-positive lymphocytes were present in the wall of some blood vessels, and in the dermis and epidermis. Proliferating cell nuclear antigen was detected predominantly in the basal layer of the epidermis and in the superficial dermis. Electron microscopy revealed small intranuclear aggregates of virus particles in an epidermocyte, damage to desmosomes and disorganization of cytokeratin filaments in many epidermocytes. Aggregates of virus particles were revealed also in a fibroblast in the dermis. In blood capillaries of the corium, acute swelling, inflammation and necrosis of the endothelium were observed. By means of the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and nucleotide DNA sequencing of the PCR product, the virus was identified as bovine papilloma virus type 1 (BPV 1). The presence of this virus in the tissue was further confirmed by in-situ hybridization with a BPV 1 probe.
The incidence of genotypes at codon 171 of the prion protein gene (PRNP) in five breeds of sheep and production traits of ewes associated with those genotypes.	Scrapie is one of several transmissible spongiform encephalopathies of livestock. Disease susceptibility is linked to polymorphisms in the normal prion protein gene that encodes the mammalian prion precursor. Codon 171 of this gene is a major determinant of scrapie susceptibility. Selection for arginine (R) at codon 171 is encouraged by the USDA to decrease the incidence of scrapie. Objectives of this study were to determine the frequency of R allele variants at codon 171 in a sample of sheep from five breeds (Columbia, Hampshire, Rambouillet, Suffolk, and Targhee) and western white-faced commercial ewes and to determine whether the R allele is associated with ewe and lamb production traits. Genotyping was performed on 532 ewes and 901 lambs from the University of Wyoming flock, in addition to 820 rams from 52 sheep producers from Wyoming and surrounding areas, using a DNA mismatch assay that discriminated the R allele from others at codon 171. Genotyping was performed by DNA sequencing on 127 rams representing all breeds, except Hampshire from the USDA Sheep Experiment Station at Dubois, ID. The 171R allele was found in all five breeds and in the commercial western white-faced ewes. Genotype frequencies varied (P < 0.001) by breed in ewe and ram populations. Influence of R-allele frequency on ewe lambing records and individual lamb records was analyzed for Columbia (62, 161, 121), Hampshire (89, 193, 162), Rambouillet (87, 179, 133), Suffolk (67, 178, 161), and commercial sheep (227, 463, 324) for numbers of ewes, total number of ewe production records, and individual lamb records, respectively. Suffolk ewes without the R allele (non-R/non-R) gave birth to more (P <or= 0.005) multiple lambs than heterozygous non-R/R ewes. Homozygous non-R/non-R Suffolk ewes weaned lighter (P = 0.02) individual lambs but more (P = 0.03) total weight of lamb than heterozygous non-R/R ewes. Although ewes genotyped homozygous non-R/non-R or heterozygous non-R/R at codon 171 from the commercial flock gave birth to more (P <or= 0.002) multiple lambs than ewes genotyped R/R, differences were not detected (P = 0.14) in total weight of lamb weaned. Production traits of Columbia, Hampshire, and Rambouillet ewes did not differ (P >or= 0.08) by ewe genotype. Lamb birth and weaning weights were not influenced (P >or= 0.12) by lamb genotype in any of the breeds or in the commercial flock. In this population, ultimate lamb production was only influenced by genotype at codon 171 in the Suffolk flock.
Genetic and antigenic analyses of bovine respiratory syncytial virus detected in Japan.	Genetic and antigenic analyses of bovine respiratory syncytial virus were conducted on 12 field strains from Tohoku and Hokuriku districts in Japan during from 2002 to 2004. On the phylogenetic tree of the nucleotide sequences of the glycoprotein region, the examined strains fell in the same cluster as the strain isolated in Nebraska and were classified as the subgroup III. The examined strains were subdivided into 2 lineages (A, B). Isoleucine 200 of the epitope domain was replaced by threonine as a feature of the lineage B strains. The examined strains showed the nucleotide sequence homologies of 88.3-93.3% with the known Japanese strains classified as the subgroup II and of 86.1-96.6% with those in the subgroup III. No significant difference was found on the neutralization index between the examined strain and the 52-163-13 phylogenetically similar to the Japanese vaccine one. The results suggest that the subgroup III strains have existed in Japan and that epidemics of the strains could be protected due to the present vaccination.
Expression of a gene encoding Trypanosoma congolense putative Abc1 family protein is developmentally regulated.	During the attempt to seek T. congolense species-specific diagnostic antigens, we discovered one cDNA clone (P74) encoding 74 kDa putative abc1 protein (p74) from T. congolense PCF cDNA library. It has been suggested that members of the abc1 family are novel chaperonins and essential for both the mitochondrial electron transfer in the bc 1 complex and the coenzyme Q biosynthesis. Although abc1 protein in yeast has a nuclear or mitochondrial subcellular location, neither nuclear localization signal nor mitochondrial targeting signal was found within p74. Northern blot analysis revealed that the transcription level of P74 mRNA in bloodstream form (BSF) cells were 4 times higher than that in procyclic form cells. Western blot analysis also indicated that p74 was only expressed in T. congolense BSF cells, and revealed that molecular mass of native p74 was not 74 kDa but 56 kDa. This indicates extensive post-translational modification in p74. Although further characterization of p74 will be required, our findings provide implications for CoQ biosynthesis pathway in T. congolense.
Identification of an cysteine-to-arginine substitution caused by a single nucleotide polymorphism in the canine monoamine oxidase B gene.	Monoamine oxidase B catalytically oxidizes biogenic amines such as phenylethylamine and dopamine, and its activity is presumed to be related to particular behavioral traits. In this study, we first identified a single nucleotide polymorphism (T199C) located on the putative third exon of the canine monoamine oxidase B gene, which causes an amino acid substitution from cysteine to arginine. We then examined the allelic frequencies in five dog breeds (Golden Retriever, Labrador Retriever, Maltese, Miniature Schnauzer, and Shiba) and found significant variation among them. The present results suggest that analysis of the monoamine oxidase B polymorphism could be a useful means of elucidating the genetic background of breed-specific behavioral characteristics in dogs.
Cloning and expression of goat interleukin-18 gene.	We isolated and sequenced a 480 bp cDNA encoding mature goat interleukin-18 (gIL-18) from alveolar macrophages and splenocytes activated with LPS by RT-PCR. The gIL-18 gene was cloned into pET32a (+) vectors and sequenced. Nucleotide sequence of gIL-18 shares high homology with cattle. Fusional expression with pET32a (+) of gIL-18 of about 38kD was obtained by SDS-PAGE analysis after induction by IPTG in the E. Coli BL21 expression system. The recombinant protein can induce IFN-gamma production in PBMC. The IL-18 mRNA was constitutively detected in goat alveolar macrophages with or without LPS, While, enhanced expression was detected in splenocytes and liver cells if treated by LPS, and can be weakly detected in Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) treated by activators. Significant deference of IL-18 mRNA level may reflect the capacity to produce mature IL-18 in such tissues.
MHC diversity and the association to nematode parasitism in the yellow-necked mouse (Apodemus flavicollis).	In vertebrates, the genes of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) are among the most debated candidates accounting for co-evolutionary processes of host-parasite interaction at the molecular level. The exceptionally high allelic polymorphism found in MHC loci is believed to be maintained by pathogen-driven selection, mediated either through heterozygous advantage or rare allele advantage (= frequency dependent selection). While investigations under natural conditions are still very rare, studies on humans or mice under laboratory conditions revealed support for both hypotheses. We investigated nematode burden and allelic diversity of a functional important MHC class II gene (DRB exon2) in free-ranging yellow-necked mice (Apodemus flavicollis). Twenty-seven distinct Apfl-DRB alleles were detected in 146 individuals with high levels of amino acid sequence divergence, especially at the antigen binding sites (ABS), indicating selection processes acting on this locus. Heterozygosity had no influence on the infection status (being infected or not), the number of different nematode infections (NNI) or the intensity of infection, measured as the individual faecal egg count (FEC). However, significant associations of specific Apfl-DRB alleles to both nematode susceptibility and resistance were found, for all nematodes as well as in separate analyses of the two most common nematodes. Apodemus flavicollis individuals carrying the alleles Apfl-DRB*5 or Apfl-DRB*15 revealed significantly higher FEC than individuals with other alleles. In contrast, the allele Apfl-DRB*23 showed a significant association to low FEC of the most common nematode. Thus, our results provide evidence for pathogen-driven selection acting through rare allele advantage under natural conditions.
Characterization of an interleukin-15 like (IL-15L) gene from zebrafish (Danio rerio).	In fish, interleukin (IL)-2, IL-21 and IL-15 genes have recently been identified by in-silico cloning. Fish IL-15 gene is similar to counterparts from mammals and other vertebrates. A zebrafish genomic database-search initiated to find IL-2 and IL-21 genes from zebrafish (Danio rerio) led to the identification of an IL-15 like gene (IL-15L). This gene was cloned by prediction and the transcripts were subsequently cloned by PCR. The predicted translation yielded a 162 amino acid protein with a 42 amino acid-long signal peptide. This protein shared identities of 28.4% to 31.5% with other mammalian and vertebrate IL-2, IL-15 and IL-21 genes. The gene occupies 7.7 kb of the genomic DNA and the coding region spans into four exons and is interrupted by three introns, which is similar to the genomic structure of IL-2 gene. The chromosomal synteny and phylogenetic analyses support our view that this IL-15L gene is specific to teleosts. Furthermore, two alternatively spliced forms have been identified with differential exon usage translating for proteins of 108 and 120 amino acids in length. The analysis of the alternative splicing suggests it may play an important role in regulating the function of this novel gene. Analyses by RT-PCR and in situ hybridization show gene expression in lymphoid tissues like intestine, gills, spleen, pancreas and kidney suggestive of a role in immunity of fish.
Pattern of nucleotide substitution and divergence of prophenoloxidase in decapods.	Despite the unprecedented development in identification and characterization of prophenoloxidase (proPO) in commercially important decapods, little is known about the evolutionary relationship, rate of amino acid replacement and differential selection pressures operating on proPO of different species of decapods. Here we report the evolutionary relationship among these nine decapod species based on proPO gene and types of selective pressures operating on proPO codon sites. Our analyses revealed that all the nine decapod species shared a common ancestor. The mean percentage sequence divergence at proPO gene was 34.4+/-0.6%. Pairwise estimates of nonsynonymous to synonymous ratio (omega) for Homarus americanus-H. gammarus is greater than one, therefore indicating adaptive evolution (functional diversification) of proPO in these two species. In contrast, strong purifying selection (omega<1) was observed in all other species pairs. However, phylogenetically closely related decapods revealed relatively higher omega value (omega=0.15+/-0.3) than the distantly related species pairs (omega=0.0075+/-0.005). These discrepancies could be due to higher fixation probability of beneficial mutation in closely related species. Maximum likelihood-based codon substitution analyses revealed a strong purifying selection operating on most of the codon sites, therefore suggesting proPO is functionally constrained (purifying selection). Codon substitution analyses have also revealed the evidence of strong purifying selection in haemocyanin subunits of decapods.
Taxonomic and phylogenetic relationships between neotropical species of ticks from genus Amblyomma (Acari: Ixodidae) inferred from second internal transcribed spacer sequences of rDNA.	The accurate specific identification of ticks is essential for the study, control and prevention of tick-borne diseases. Herein, we determined ribosomal nucleotide sequences of the second internal transcribed spacer (ITS2) of 15 Neotropical hard tick species of the genus Amblyomma Koch found in Brazil. Most of the studied ticks accidentally parasite humans and potentially act as vectors of zoonoses. Lengths of the ITS2 sequences ranged from 956 to 1,207 bp, whereas GC content varied from 62.4 to 66.9%. A matrix of ITS2 divergence was calculated with the ITS2 sequence data obtained showing divergence levels varying from 1.5 to 28.8%. The analysis indicated that this molecular marker can be useful for Amblyomma-specific identification. Phylogenetic inferences based on the ITS2 sequences were used to assess some issues in subgenus taxonomy.
Genetic Analyses of an H3N8 Influenza Virus Isolate, Causative Strain of the Outbreak of Equine Influenza at the Kanazawa Racecourse in Japan in 2007.	In August 2007, an outbreak of equine influenza occurred among vaccinated racehorses with Japanese commercial equine influenza vaccine at Kanazawa Racecourse in Ishikawa prefecture in Japan. Apparent symptoms were pyrexia (38.2-41.0 degrees C) and nasal discharge with or without coughing, although approximately half of the infected horses were subclinical. All horses had been shot with a vaccine that contained two inactivated H3N8 influenza virus strains [A/equine/La Plata/93 (La Plata/93) of American lineage and A/equine/Avesta/93 (Avesta/93) of European lineage] and an H7N7 strain (A/equine/Newmarket/1/77). Influenza virus, A/equine/Kanazawa/1/2007 (H3N8) (Kanazawa/07), was isolated from one of the nasal swab samples of diseased horses. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that Kanazawa/07 was classified into the American sublineage Florida. In addition, four amino acid substitutions were found in the antigenic sites B and E in the HA1 subunit protein of Kanazawa/07 in comparison with that of La Plata/93. Hemagglutination-inhibition (HI) test using 16 serum samples from recovering horses revealed that 1.4- to 8-fold difference in titers between Kanazawa/07 and either of the vaccine strains. The present findings suggest that Japanese commercial inactivated vaccine contributed to reducing the morbidity rate and manifestation of the clinical signs of horses infected with Kanazawa/07 that may be antigenically different from the vaccine strains.
Virological and serological studies of porcine respiratory coronavirus infection on a Japanese farm.	We detected transmissible gastroenteritis virus (TGEV) antibodies in pig farms in Tochigi prefecture, although the farms had no past record of TGEV vaccination or TGE. Among the farms, Farm A showed a high antibody incidence. We could not confirm if either TGEV or porcine respiratory coronavirus (PRCV) induced the antibodies, since conventional tests failed to discriminate PRCV from TGEV. Therefore, we conducted virological and serological examinations of this farm for 4 years to establish the etiology - TGEV or PRCV. Although no TGEV was detected, PRCVs were isolated from the nasal samples of pigs. Using a commercial ELISA kit, it was found that the antibodies detected in pigs of all the raising stages and sows were raised against PRCV but not TGEV. The phylogenetic analysis of the nucleotide sequences of the isolates showed that they were closely related to each other, and formed a separate cluster apart from the U.S.A. and European strains. In Cesarean-derived, colostrums-deprived piglets inoculated with a PRCV isolate, no clinical signs were seen, and the viruses were mainly isolated from the nasal samples. Moreover, viral genes were detected from the nasal sample of the contact pig. The result suggested that PRCV infection was located in the nasal cavity of pigs, and horizontal transmission easily occurs. From these results, PRCVs with different origins from the exotic PRCVs might be prevalent in pig farms in Japan.
Feline immunodeficiency virus env gene evolution in experimentally infected cats.	Feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV), an immunosuppressive lentivirus found in cats worldwide, is studied to illuminate mechanisms of lentiviral pathogenesis and to identify key components of protective immunity. During replication, lentiviruses accumulate errors of nucleotide mis-incorporation due to the low-fidelity of reverse transcriptase and recombination between viral variants, resulting in the emergence of a complex viral "quasispecies". In patients infected with HIV-1, env sequences may vary by up to 10% and the detection of quasispecies with greater heterogeneity is associated with higher viral loads and reduced CD4+ T cell numbers [1], indicating that transmission of more complex quasispecies may lead to disease progression. However, little is known about how FIV evolves as disease progresses, or why some cats develop AIDS rapidly while disease progression is slow in others. The aim of this study was to determine whether disease progression may be governed by viral evolution and to examine the diversity of viral variants emerging following infection with an infectious molecular clone. The FIV env gene encoding the envelope glycoprotein (Env) was examined at early (12 weeks) and late (322 weeks) stages of FIV infection in two groups of cats infected experimentally with the FIV-GL8 molecular clone. Viral variants were detected within quasispecies in cats in the late stages of FIV infection that contained differing amino acid compositions in several variable loops of Env, some of which were identified as determinants of receptor usage and resistance to neutralization. Therefore these results indicate that the FIV env gene evolves during the course of infection, giving rise to variants that resist neutralization and likely lead to disease progression.
Polymorphism of prion protein gene in sheep of Inner Mongolian, China.	Susceptibility to natural scrapie in sheep is associated with polymorphisms at codons 136, 154 and 171 of the prion protein (PrP) gene. To assess the risk of scrapie in sheep raised in China, DNA from 30 sheep of two breeds was isolated, amplified and sequenced for the PrP gene. The ovine PrP gene was found to be highly homogenous. The genotype associated with high susceptibility to scrapie (VRQ) was absent, whereas that associated with the resistance (ARR) was present in 6.7% of sheep examined. ARK was also rare (6.7%). ARQ that is associated with an intermediate susceptibility was the genotype observed in the most of sheep examined (86.6%). These data suggest that Chinese sheep of Mongolian sheep breed are susceptible to scrapie.
Identification of beta-1 adrenergic receptor polymorphisms in cats.	In human beings, genetic polymorphisms within the beta-1 adrenergic receptor (ADRB1) gene have been associated with variable pharmacologic responses to beta blocker therapy. Beta-blockers are commonly given to cats with heart disease, particularly hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, a common cause of feline heart disease. We hypothesized that polymorphisms are present in the feline ADRB1 gene, which could result in an altered pharmacologic response to beta-blocker therapy. We sequenced the feline ADRB1 gene in 42 cats of five breeds. We identified three polymorphisms within the ADRB1 gene. Two polymorphisms did not change the amino acid produced and are unlikely to be clinically significant. A third polymorphism identified was an AA/CC substitution at the 830-831 base pair sites. This alteration changed the amino acid produced from proline to glutamine at position 277 and computer modeling predicts an altered protein structure. Further study is warranted to determine if this polymorphism alters response to beta blocker therapy.
Nationwide Cyprinid herpesvirus 3 contamination in natural rivers of Japan.	Cyprinid herpesvirus 3 (CyHV-3) disease is a significant threat for common and koi carp cultivators and for freshwater ecosystems. To determine the prevalence of CyHV-3 in Japanese rivers, a nationwide survey of all national class-A rivers was undertaken in the Summer of 2008. The virus was concentrated from river water samples using the cation-coated filter method. CyHV-3 DNA was detected in 90 rivers, representing 90% of 103 successfully analysed rivers. More than 100,000 copies of CyHV-3 DNA per litre of sample were detected in four rivers, higher than that reported during the Yura River outbreak in 2007. For CyHV-3-positive rivers, the log CyHV-3 density was negatively correlated with the water temperature on the sampling date and positively correlated with the suspended solids and dissolved oxygen, which are annually averaged for each river. Our results demonstrate that virus detection using molecular biology techniques is a powerful tool for monitoring the presence of CyHV-3 in natural environments.
Molecular characterization of the uncultivatable hemotropic bacterium Mycoplasma haemofelis.	Mycoplasma haemofelis is a pathogenic feline hemoplasma. Despite its importance, little is known about its metabolic pathways or mechanism of pathogenicity due to it being uncultivatable. The recently sequenced M. haemofelis str. Langford 1 genome was analysed and compared to those of other available hemoplasma genomes.Analysis showed that in hemoplasmas genes involved in carbohydrate metabolism are limited to enzymes of the glycolytic pathway, with glucose appearing to be the sole energy source. The majority of the pentose phosphate pathway enzymes that catalyze the de novo synthesis of ribonucleotides were absent, as were cell division protein FtsZ and chaperonins GroEL/ES. Uncharacterized protein paralogs containing putative surface expression motifs, comprised 62% of M. haemofelis and 19% of Mycoplasma suis genome coverage respectively, the majority of which were present in a small number of unstructured islands. Limited mass spectrometry and immunoblot data matched a number of characterized proteins and uncharacterized paralogs, confirming their expression and immunogenicity in vivo.These data have allowed further characterization of these important pathogens, including their limited metabolic capabilities, which may contribute to their uncultivatable status. A number of immunogenic proteins, and a potential mechanism for host immune system evasion, have been identified.
Sphaerospora elwhaiensis sp.n. (Myxosporea: Sphaerosporidae) from landlocked sockeye salmon Oncorhynchus nerka (Salmoniformes: Salmonidae) in Washington State, USA.	A new species of sphaerosporid myxosporean, Sphaerospora elwhaiensis sp. n., is described from kidney of non-anadromous sockeye salmon (kokanee) Oncorhynchus nerka (Walbaum) from Lake Sutherland in the northern Olympic Peninsula, Washington, USA. Infection with the parasite was detected in 45% of 177 kokanee examined over 5 years. While conforming to the morphological criteria by which members of the genus are defined, the parasite is distinguished from congeners in salmonids of western North America by a unique combination of valvular sculpting of the myxospore, the relatively large size of the myxospore and monosporous development within the pseudoplasmodium. In addition, nucleotide sequences of the parasite's small and large subunit ribosomal RNA gene are unique. Phylogenetic analyses of these sequences suggested that the parasite is most closely related to freshwater Myxidium spp. and Zschokkella spp. The molecular data have provided further evidence for a polyphyletic association previously recognized among members of the genus and emphasize the need for a taxonomic revision of Sphaerospora Thélohan, 1892 and related genera.
A redescription of Arostrilepis horrida (Linstow, 1901) and descriptions of two new species from Palaearctic microtine rodents, Arostrilepis macrocirrosa sp. n. and A. tenuicirrosa sp. n. (Cestoda: Hymenolepididae).	Abstract: The type species of the cestode genus Arostrilepis Mas-Coma et Tenora, 1997, Arostrilepis horrida (Linstow, 1901), is redescribed on the basis of the syntype material from the brown rat.(Rattus norvegicus) deposited in the collection of the Museum fir Naturkunde, Berlin. Arostrilepis horrida (sensu lato), reported from a wide range of rodents throughout the Holarctic Region, is shown to be a species complex. The proposed host range and geographical distribution ofA. horrida (sensu stricto) are limited to the data reported in the original description. The previously proposed synonymy ofA. horrida is examined and the following species are excluded from the list of its synonyms: Hymenolepisprocera Janicki, 1904, H. arvicolina Cholodkowsky, 1913, H. sciurina Cholodkowsky, 1913 and H. mathevossianae Akhumyan, 1946; these are considered species inquirendae. Specimens previously identified as A. horrida from voles from the Asian part of Russia are revised and newly collected materials are worked out. Two new species, A. macrocirrosa sp. n. and A. tenuicirrosa sp. n., are described. The main differentiating characters used to distinguish Arostrilepis spp. are the form and size of cirrus and its armature as well as the type of arrangement for the testes. The new species can also be distinguished from one another on the basis of sequences of the ITS2 rRNA gene. The generic diagnosis of Arostrilepis is emended. Hymenolepis neurotrichi Rausch, 1962, which had been placed in Arostrilepis by Mas-Coma and Tenora (1997), does not correspond to the generic diagnosis and is considered a species incertae sedis.
Phylogenetic relationships of some spirurine nematodes (Nematoda: Chromadorea: Rhabditida: Spirurina) parasitic in fishes inferred from SSU rRNA gene sequences.	Abstract: Small subunit rRNA sequences were obtained from 38 representatives mainly of the nematode orders Spirurida (Camallanidae, Cystidicolidae, Daniconematidae, Philometridae, Physalopteridae, Rhabdochonidae, Skrjabillanidae) and, in part, Ascaridida (Anisakidae, Cucullanidae, Quimperiidae). The examined nematodes are predominantly parasites of fishes. Their analyses provided well-supported trees allowing the study ofphylogenetic relationships among some spirurine nematodes. The present results support the placement of Cucullanidae at the base of the suborder Spirurina and, based on the position of the genus Philonema (subfamily Philoneminae) forming a sister group to Skrjabillanidae (thus Philoneminae should be elevated to Philonemidae), the paraphyly of the Philometridae. Comparison of a large number of sequences of representatives of the latter family supports the paraphyly of the genera Philometra, Philometroides and Dentiphilometra. The validity of the newly included genera Afrophilometra and Caranginema is not supported. These results indicate geographical isolation has not been the cause of speciation in this parasite group and no coevolution with fish hosts is apparent. On the contrary, the group of South-American species ofAlinema, Nilonema and Rumai is placed in an independent branch, thus markedly separated from other family members. Molecular data indicate that the skrjabillanid subfamily Esocineminae (represented by Esocinema bohemicum) should be either elevated to the rank of an independent family or Daniconematidae (Mexiconema africanum) should be decreased to Daniconematinae and transferred to the family Skrjabillanidae. Camallanid genera Camallanus and Procamallanus, as well as the subgenera Procamallanus and Spirocamallanus are confirmed to be paraphyletic. Paraphyly has also been found within Filarioidea, Habronematoidea and Thelazioidea and in Cystidicolidae, Physalopteridae and Thelaziidae. The results of the analyses also show that Neoascarophis, Spinitectus and Rhabdochona are monophyletic, in contrast to the paraphyletic genus Ascarophis. They further confirm the independence of two subgenera, Rhabdochona and Globochona, in the genus Rhabdochona. The necessity of further studies of fish-parasitizing representatives of additional nematode families not yet studied by molecular methods, such as Guyanemidae, Lucionematidae or Tetanonematidae, is underscored.
A new species of Litomosoides (Nematoda: Onchocercidae), parasite of Nectomys palmipes (Rodentia: Cricetidae: Sigmodontinae) from Venezuela: description, molecular evidence, Wolbachia pipientis screening.	Abstract: The onchocercid filaria Litomosoides taylori sp. n. is described from the sigmodontine cricetid Nectomys palmipes Allen et Chapman in northeast Venezuela. A voucher specimen of the new species was used for molecular analysis of the coxI and 12S rDNA genes, and screened for the presence of the endobacterium Wolbachia pipientis. Litomosoides taylori belongs to the "sigmodontis group" of Litomosoides and a combination of characters can be used to distinguish it from the remaining 18 species forming this group. Among the five Nectomys species, all living near running water, N. squamipes also harbours Litomosoides species, L. khonae in Brazil and L. navonae in Argentina. These three Litomosoides species of the "sigmodontis group" do not share any particular characters. Gene sequences of L. taylori differ from those of the five Litomosoides species available, the three of the "carinii group" being the most distant. The new species harbours W pipientis, which is concurrent with the great majority of Litomosoides species screened to date.
A high prevalence of Theileria penicillata in woylies (Bettongia penicillata).	The woylie or brush-tailed bettong (Bettongia penicillata) is a medium-sized native Australian marsupial that has undergone a dramatic decline in numbers in recent years. Trypanosome parasites have been identified in the woylie but little is known about the prevalence and clinical impact of other haemoprotozoan parasites in these marsupials. In the present study, the occurrence and molecular phylogeny of a piroplasm was studied in woylies from six different sites in Western Australia (WA). Blood samples were screened by PCR at the 18S rRNA locus and 80.4% (123/153) of the blood samples were positive for piroplasm DNA. Sequence and phylogenetic analysis of 12 of these positives identified them as Theileria penicillata, and sequencing of cloned PCR products indicated that no other species of Theileria were present. Infected woylies had a lower body weight but microscopic evaluation of the blood films indicated that T. penicillata did not appear to cause red cell injury or anaemia. Further studies are required to determine the clinical significance of T. penicillata in woylies.
A metagenomic study of primate insect diet diversity.	Descriptions of primate diets are generally based on either direct observation of foraging behavior, morphological classification of food remains from feces, or analysis of the stomach contents of deceased individuals. Some diet items (e.g. insect prey), however, are difficult to identify visually, and observation conditions often do not permit adequate quantitative sampling of feeding behavior. Moreover, the taxonomically informative morphology of some food species (e.g. swallowed seeds, insect exoskeletons) may be destroyed by the digestive process. Because of these limitations, we used a metagenomic approach to conduct a preliminary, "proof of concept" study of interspecific variation in the insect component of the diets of six sympatric New World monkeys known, based on observational field studies, to differ markedly in their feeding ecology. We used generalized arthropod polymerase chain reaction (PCR) primers and cloning to sequence mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequences of the arthropod cytochrome b (CYT B) gene from fecal samples of wild woolly, titi, saki, capuchin, squirrel, and spider monkeys collected from a single sampling site in western Amazonia where these genera occur sympatrically. We then assigned preliminary taxonomic identifications to the sequences by basic local alignment search tool (BLAST) comparison to arthropod CYT B sequences present in GenBank. This study is the first to use molecular techniques to identify insect prey in primate diets. The results suggest that a metagenomic approach may prove valuable in augmenting and corroborating observational data and increasing the resolution of primate diet studies, although the lack of comparative reference sequences for many South American insects limits the approach at present. As such reference data become available for more animal and plant taxa, this approach also holds promise for studying additional components of primate diets.
A single nucleotide polymorphism in the acetyl-coenzyme A acyltransferase 2 (ACAA2) gene is associated with milk yield in Chios sheep.	The objective of this work was to identify single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in the ovine acetyl-coenzyme A acyltransferase 2 (ACAA2) gene and investigate their association with milk production traits. Molecular characterization was accomplished by sequencing the entire coding region and the 3' and 5' untranslated regions (UTR) of the ACAA2 gene from individuals of the Chios sheep bred in Cyprus. All exons appeared to be monomorphic except for the last exon, for which a single SNP located in the 3' UTR of the gene (HM537015:g.2982T>C) was detected. Mixed model association analysis, using SNP data from 318 animals from 104 paternal half-sib families and first-lactation phenotype and pedigree information on 2,405 ewes revealed that this SNP was significantly associated with milk yield. The significance of the SNP effect persisted when milk yield information up to the third lactation was analyzed. Both alleles at the locus segregated at similar frequencies. The T allele was associated with increased milk yield and exhibited partial dominant action. Animals with the g.2982TT or g.2982CT genotype had significantly higher milk yield than those with the g.2982CC genotype, with the g.2982T allele having an additive effect of 13.4 (± 4.7) kg and a dominance effect of 7.9 (± 6.1) kg. Based on estimated allelic effects and sample allele frequencies, the g.2982T>C SNP explained 10% of the additive genetic variance for milk yield. A putative mode of action through nutrient metabolism is discussed.
Effect of CSN1S1-CSN3 (α(S1)-κ-casein) composite genotype on milk production traits and milk coagulation properties in Mediterranean water buffalo.	The aim of this study was to estimate effects of CSN1S1-CSN3 (α(S1)-κ-casein) composite genotypes on milk production traits and milk coagulation properties (MCP) in Mediterranean water buffalo. Genotypes at CSN1S1 and CSN3 and coagulation properties [rennet clotting time (RCT), curd firming time (K₂₀), and curd firmness (A₃₀)] were assessed by reversed-phase HPLC and computerized renneting meter analysis, respectively, using single test-day milk samples of 536 animals. Alternative protein variants of α(S1)-CN and κ-CN were detected by HPLC, and identification of the corresponding genetic variants was carried out by DNA analysis. Two genetic variants were detected at CSN1S1 (A and B variants) and 2 at CSN3 (X1 and X2 variants). Statistical inference was based on a linear model including the CSN1S1-CSN3 composite genotype effect (7 genotypes), the effects of herd-test-day (8 levels), and a combined days in milk (DIM)-parity class. Composite genotype AB-X2X2 was associated with decreased test-day milk yield [-0.21 standard deviation (SD) units of the trait] relative to genotype BB-X2X2. Genotypes did not affect milk protein content, but genotype AB-X1X1 was associated with increased fat content compared with genotype BB-X2X2 (+0.28 SD units of the trait) and AB-X1X1 (+0.43 SD units of the trait). For RCT, the largest difference (+1.91 min; i.e., 0.61 SD units of the trait) was observed between genotype AA-X1X2 and AB-X1X1. Direction of genotype effects on K(20) was consistent with that for RCT. The maximum variation in K₂₀ due to genotype effects (between AA-X1X2 and AB-X1X1 genotypes) was almost 0.9 SD units of the trait. Magnitude of genotype effects was smaller for A₃₀ than for RCT and K₂₀, with a maximum difference of 0.5 SD units of the trait between genotype AA-X1X2 and AA-X1X1. The B allele at CSN1S1 was associated with increased RCT and K₂₀ and with weaker curds compared with allele A. Allele X2 at CSN3 exerted opposite effects on MCP relative to CSN1S1 B. Because of linkage disequilibrium, allele B at CSN1S1 and allele X2 at CSN3 tend to be associated and this likely makes their effects cancel each other. This study indicates a role for casein genes in variation of MCP of buffalo milk. Further studies are necessary to estimate the effects of casein genetic variants on variation of cheese yield.
Detection of heartworm infection in dogs via PCR amplification and electrospray ionization mass spectrometry of nucleic acid extracts from whole blood samples.	To develop and evaluate a rapid and accurate assay involving PCR amplification and electrospray ionization mass spectrometry of nucleic acid extracts from whole blood samples for the detection of Dirofilaria immitis infection in dogs.
New insights into the role of MHC diversity in devil facial tumour disease.	Devil facial tumour disease (DFTD) is a fatal contagious cancer that has decimated Tasmanian devil populations. The tumour has spread without invoking immune responses, possibly due to low levels of Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) diversity in Tasmanian devils. Animals from a region in north-western Tasmania have lower infection rates than those in the east of the state. This area is a genetic transition zone between sub-populations, with individuals from north-western Tasmania displaying greater diversity than eastern devils at MHC genes, primarily through MHC class I gene copy number variation. Here we test the hypothesis that animals that remain healthy and tumour free show predictable differences at MHC loci compared to animals that develop the disease.
Competition between two virulent Marek's disease virus strains in vivo.	Previous studies have demonstrated the presence of multiple strains of Marek's disease virus simultaneously circulating within poultry flocks, leading to the assumption that individual birds are repeatedly exposed to a variety of virus strains in their lifetime. Virus competition within individual birds may be an important factor that influences the outcome of co-infection under field conditions, including the potential outcome of emergence or evolution of more virulent strains. A series of experiments was designed to evaluate virus competition within chickens following simultaneous challenge with two virulent serotype 1 Marek's disease virus strains, using either pathogenically similar (rMd5 and rMd5/pp38CVI) or dissimilar (JM/102W and rMd5/pp38CVI) virus pairs. Bursa of Fabricius, feather follicle epithelium, spleen, and tumour samples were collected at multiple time points to determine the frequency and distribution of each virus present using pyrosequencing, immunohistochemistry and virus isolation. In the similar pair, rMd5 appeared to have a competitive advantage over rMd5/pp38CVI, which in turn had a competitive advantage over the less virulent JM/102W in the dissimilar virus pair. Dominance of one strain over the other was not absolute for either virus pair, as the subordinate virus was rarely eliminated. Interestingly, competition between two viruses with either pair rarely ended in a draw. Further work is needed to identify factors that influence virus-specific dominance to better understand what characteristics favour emergence of one strain in chicken populations at the expense of other strains.
Rickettsia felis in cat fleas, Ctenocephalides felis parasitizing opossums, San Bernardino County, California.	Los Angeles and Orange Counties are known endemic areas for murine typhus in California; however, no recent reports of flea-borne rickettsioses are known from adjacent San Bernardino County. Sixty-five opossums (Didelphis virginiana) were trapped in the suburban residential and industrial zones of the southwestern part of San Bernardino County in 2007. Sixty out of 65 opossums were infested with fleas, primarily cat fleas, Ctenocephalides felis (Bouché, 1835). The flea minimum infection rate with Rickettsia felis was 13.3% in pooled samples and the prevalence was 23.7% in single fleas, with two gltA genotypes detected. In spite of historic records of murine typhus in this area, no evidence for circulation of R. typhi in fleas was found during the present study. Factors contributing to the absence of R. typhi in these cat fleas in contrast to its presence in cat fleas from Orange and Los Angeles Counties are unknown and need to be investigated further in San Bernardino County.
Applicability of major histocompatibility complex DRB1 alleles as markers to detect vertebrate hybridization: a case study from Iberian ibex × domestic goat in southern Spain.	Hybridization between closely related wild and domestic species is of great concern because it can alter the evolutionary integrity of the affected populations. The high allelic variability of Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) loci usually excludes them from being used in studies to detect hybridization events. However, if a) the parental species don't share alleles, and b) one of the parental species possesses an exceptionally low number of alleles (to facilitate analysis), then even MHC loci have the potential to detect hybrids.
Molecular characterization of Cryptosporidium isolates from calves in Ishikari District, Hokkaido, Japan.	Cattle are major hosts of Cryptosporidium. Cryptosporidiosis in neonatal calves is associated with retarded growth, weight loss and calf mortality, and zoonotic infections in humans. Fecal samples were collected from calves in Ishikari District, Hokkaido, Japan and examined by PCR and sequence analyses. Among the 107 fecal samples collected in May and June 2012, 25 (23%) were positive for Cryptosporidium, including 8 samples (7%) having C. parvum, 10 (9%) having C. bovis and 7 (7%) having C. ryanae. This is first time C. ryanae has been detected in Hokkaido. Furthermore, it is the first detection of C. ryanae from pre-weaned calves in Japan. Microscopic observation with the flotation method is powerful and traditional tool for screening for Cryptosporidium species, but it sometimes leads to low detection of Cryptosporidium with low oocyst shedding intensity. If calves with or without diarrhea are examined using the molecular diagnostic tools, C. bovis and C. ryanae might be detected in other areas of Japan including Hokkaido. Here, the zoonotic species, C. parvum, was also observed. Therefore, calves can be potential sources of cryptosporidial infections for humans and other animals. The detection of C. parvum was statistically correlated with diarrhea in calves. 
Detection of hemotropic mycoplasmas in free-living brown sewer rats (Rattus norvegicus).	The prevalence of hemotropic mycoplasmas in wild rodents is largely unknown. Here, we report the presence of hemoplasmas in blood samples collected from brown sewer rats (Rattus norvegicus) trapped during rodent control around an animal hospital in Morioka, Japan. We examined nine rats using real-time PCR and end-point PCR, and found one rat (11.1%) that was positive for a hemoplasma infection. The 16S rRNA gene and 16S to 23S rRNA intergenic spacer region of the hemoplasma detected in a wild-caught rat were amplified using PCR. The nucleotide sequences of the PCR products were further determined and compared to those of other hemoplasmas. Our examinations revealed the presence of a hemoplasma that has not previously been described in rodents. The pathogenic traits of this hemoplasma remain unexplored. 
Epidemiological survey of tick-borne protozoal infection in iriomote cats and tsushima leopard cats in Japan.	This epidemiological survey was conducted to determine the prevalence of Hepatozoon, Babesia and Theileria infection in the Iriomote cat (IC) and the Tsushima leopard cat (TLC). Blood samples from 43 ICs and 14 TLCs were collected between November 2002 and January 2012. Polymerase chain reaction and DNA sequencing analyses detected a Hepatozoon felis infection prevalence of 72.0% (31/43 cats) and 100% (14/14 cats) in ICs and TLCs, respectively. The degree of Hepatozoon parasitemia observed on blood smears ranged from 0.1 to 4.7%. However, no cases had obvious clinical signs of hepatozoonosis. Neither Babesia- nor Theileria-infected wildcats were detected in this study. 
Extensive polymorphism of the major histocompatibility complex DRA gene in Balkan donkeys: perspectives on selection and genealogy.	The major histocompatibility complex (MHC) contains genes important for immune response in mammals, and these genes exhibit high polymorphism and diversity. The DRA gene, a member of the MHC class II family, is highly conserved across a large number of mammalian species, but it displays exceptionally rich sequence variations in Equidae members. We analyzed allelic polymorphism of the DRA locus in 248 donkeys sampled across the Balkan Peninsula (Albania, Bulgaria, Croatia, Macedonia, Greece and Montenegro). Five known alleles and two new alleles were identified. The new allele Eqas-DRA*0601 was found to carry a synonymous mutation, and new allele Eqas-DRA*0701, a non-synonymous mutation. We further analyzed the historical selection and allele genealogy at the DRA locus in equids. Signals of positive selection obtained by various tests were ambiguous. A conservative conclusion is that DRA polymorphism occurred relatively recently and that positive selection has been acting on the DRA locus for a relatively brief period. 
Association of a single nucleotide polymorphism in the akirin 2 gene with economically important traits in Korean native cattle.	The akirin 2 gene, located on chromosome 9 in cattle, was previously reported to be associated with nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB), involved in immune reactions and marbling of meat. To determine whether a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in akirin 2 is associated with economically important traits of Korean native cattle, the c.*188G>A SNP DNA marker in the 3'-UTR region of akirin 2 was analyzed for its association with carcass weight, longissimus muscle area and marbling. The c.*188G>A SNP was genotyped by polymerase chain reaction restriction fragment length polymorphism, and the frequency of the AA, AG, and GG genotypes were 6.82%, 71.29% and 21.88% respectively. This SNP was significantly associated with longissimus muscle area (Bonferroni corrected P < 0.05), and marbling score (Bonferroni corrected P < 0.01). These results suggest that the c.*188G>A SNP of akirin 2 might be useful as a DNA marker for longissimus muscle area and marbling scores in Korean native cattle. 
First detection of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ST398 and Staphylococcus pseudintermedius ST68 from hospitalized equines in Spain.	Eight coagulase-positive staphylococci from equines with different pathologies obtained between 2005 and 2011 were investigated. Isolates were characterized by different molecular techniques (spa-, agr-, MLST), and clonal relatedness of strains was investigated by ApaI and SmaI PFGE. Anti-microbial resistance and virulence profiles were determined. Six isolates were identified as Staphylococcus aureus, and two as Staphylococcus pseudintermedius. Of these, four isolates were methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) ST398 and one S. pseudintermedius was mecA positive and typed as ST68. One MRSA ST398 strain was isolated in 2005 and might be one of the earliest MRSA ST398 descriptions in Spain. All 5 mecA-positive strains were multidrug resistant and were isolated from hospitalized equines. Three MRSA ST398 strains carried the recently described transposon Tn559 within the chromosomal radC gene. The mecA-positive S. pseudintermedius ST68 strain was also multidrug resistant and harboured the erm(B)-Tn5405-like element. This ST68 strain presented a clear susceptible phenotype to oxacillin and cefoxitin regardless of the presence of an integral and conserved mecA gene and mecA promoter, which enhances the need for testing the presence of this gene in routine analysis to avoid treatment failures. These data reflect the extended anti-microbial resistance gene acquisition capacities of both bacterial species and evidence their pathogenic properties. The first detection of MRSA ST398 and S. pseudintermedius ST68 in horses in Spain is reported. 
Karyotype reorganization with conserved genomic compartmentalization in dot-shaped microchromosomes in the Japanese mountain hawk-eagle (Nisaetus nipalensis orientalis, Accipitridae).	The karyotype of the Japanese mountain hawk-eagle (Nisaetus nipalensis orientalis) (2n = 66) consists of a large number of medium-sized and small chromosomes but only 4 pairs of dot-shaped microchromosomes, in contrast to the typical avian karyotype with a small number of macrochromosomes and many indistinguishable microchromosomes. To investigate the drastic karyotype reorganization in this species, we performed a molecular cytogenetic characterization employing chromosome in situ hybridization and molecular cloning of centromeric heterochromatin. Cross-species chromosome painting with chicken chromosome-specific probes 1-9 and Z and a paint pool of 20 microchromosome pairs revealed that the N. n. orientalis karyotype differs from chicken by at least 13 fissions of macrochromosomes and 15 fusions between microchromosomes and between micro- and macrochromosomes. A novel family of satellite DNA sequences (NNO-ApaI) was isolated, consisting of a GC-rich 173-bp repeated sequence element. The NNO-ApaI sequence was localized to the C-positive centromeric heterochromatin of 4 pairs of microchromosomes, which evolved concertedly by homogenization between the microchromosomes. These results suggest that the 4 pairs of dot-shaped microchromosomes have retained their genomic compartmentalization from other middle-sized and small chromosomes.
Genome-wide in silico screening for microRNA genetic variability in livestock species.	MicroRNAs are a class of non-coding RNAs that post-transcriptionally regulate target gene expression. Previous studies have shown that microRNA gene variability can interfere with its function, resulting in phenotypic variation. Polymorphisms within microRNA genes present a source of novel biomarkers for phenotypic traits in animal breeding. However, little is known about microRNA genetic variability in livestock species, which is also due to incomplete data in genomic resource databases. Therefore, the aim of this study was to perform a genome-wide in silico screening of genomic sources and determine the genetic variability of microRNA genes in livestock species using mirna sniper 3.0 (http://www.integratomics-time.com/miRNA-SNiPer/), a new version of our previously developed tool. By examining Ensembl and miRBase genome builds, it was possible to design a tool-based generated search of 16 genomes including four livestock species: pig, horse, cattle and chicken. The analysis revealed 65 polymorphisms located within mature microRNA regions in these four species, including 28% within the seed region in cattle and chicken. Polymorphic microRNA genes in cattle and chicken were further examined for mapping to quantitative trait loci regions associated with production and health traits. The developed bioinformatics tool enables the analysis of polymorphic microRNA genes and prioritization of potential regulatory polymorphisms and therefore contributes to the development of microRNA-based biomarkers in livestock species. The assembled catalog and the developed tool can serve the animal science community to efficiently select microRNA SNPs for further quantitative and molecular genetic evaluations of their phenotypic effects and causal associations with livestock production traits. 
Small ruminant lentivirus genetic subgroups associate with sheep TMEM154 genotypes.	Small ruminant lentiviruses (SRLVs) are prevalent in North American sheep and a major cause of production losses for the U.S. sheep industry. Sheep susceptibility to SRLV infection is influenced by genetic variation within the ovine transmembrane 154 gene (TMEM154). Animals with either of two distinct TMEM154 haplotypes that both encode glutamate at position 35 of the protein (E35) are at greater risk of SRLV infection than those homozygous with a lysine (K35) haplotype. Prior to this study, it was unknown if TMEM154 associations with infection are influenced by SRLV genetic subgroups. Accordingly, our goals were to characterize SRLVs naturally infecting sheep from a diverse U.S. Midwestern flock and test them for associations with TMEM154 E35K genotypes. Two regions of the SRLV genome were targeted for proviral amplification, cloning, sequence analysis, and association testing with TMEM154 E35K genotypes: gag and the transmembrane region of env. Independent analyses of gag and env sequences showed that they clustered in two subgroups (1 and 2), they were distinct from SRLV subtypes originating from Europe, and that subgroup 1 associated with hemizygous and homozygous TMEM154 K35 genotypes and subgroup 2 with hemi- and homozygous E35 genotypes (gag p<0.001, env p=0.01). These results indicate that SRLVs in the U.S. have adapted to infect sheep with specific TMEM154 E35K genotypes. Consequently, both host and SRLV genotypes affect the relative risk of SRLV infection in sheep.
Old world monkeys and new age science: the evolution of nonhuman primate systems virology.	Nonhuman primate (NHP) biomedical models are critical to our understanding of human health and disease, yet we are still in the early stages of developing sufficient tools to support primate genomic research that allow us to better understand the basis of phenotypic traits in NHP models of disease. A mere 7 years ago, the limited NHP transcriptome profiling that was being performed was done using complementary DNA arrays based on human genome sequences, and the lack of NHP genomic information and immunologic reagents precluded the use of NHPs in functional genomic studies. Since then, significant strides have been made in developing genomics capabilities for NHP research, from the rhesus macaque genome sequencing project to the construction of the first macaque-specific high-density oligonucleotide microarray, paving the way for further resource development and additional primate sequencing projects. Complete published draft genome sequences are now available for the chimpanzee ( Chimpanzee Sequencing Analysis Consortium 2005), bonobo ( Prufer et al. 2012), gorilla ( Scally et al. 2012), and baboon ( Ensembl.org 2013), along with the recently completed draft genomes for the cynomolgus macaque and Chinese rhesus macaque. Against this backdrop of both expanding sequence data and the early application of sequence-derived DNA microarrays tools, we will contextualize the development of these community resources and their application to infectious disease research through a literature review of NHP models of acquired immune deficiency syndrome and models of respiratory virus infection. In particular, we will review the use of -omics approaches in studies of simian immunodeficiency virus and respiratory virus pathogenesis and vaccine development, emphasizing the acute and innate responses and the relationship of these to the course of disease and to the evolution of adaptive immunity. 
Identification of bloodmeal sources and Trypanosoma cruzi infection in triatomine bugs (Hemiptera: Reduviidae) from residential settings in Texas, the United States.	The host-vector-parasite interactions in Chagas disease peridomestic transmission cycles in the United States are not yet well understood. Trypanosoma cruzi (Kinetoplastida: Trypanosomatidae) infection prevalence and bloodmeal sources were determined for adult and immature triatomine (Hemiptera: Reduviidae) specimens collected from residential settings in central Texas. Sequenced cytochrome b DNA segments obtained from triatomine digestive tract identified nine vertebrate hosts and one invertebrate host in four triatomine species (Triatoma gerstaeckeri, Triatoma indictiva, Triatoma protracta, and Triatoma sanguisuga). The broad range of wild and domestic host species detected in triatomine specimens collected from residential sites indicates high host diversity and potential movement between the sylvatic and peridomestic settings. Domestic dogs appear to be key in the maintenance of the peridomestic transmission cycle as both a blood host for the triatomine vectors and a potential reservoir for the parasite. The high rate of T. cruzi infection among triatomine specimens that were collected from inside houses, outside houses, and dog kennels (69, 81, and 82%, respectively) suggests a current risk for Chagas disease vector-borne transmission for humans and domestic animals in residential settings in Texas because of overlap with the sylvatic cycle.
Molecular identification of Sarcocystis spp. helped to define the origin of green pythons (Morelia viridis) confiscated in Germany.	Sarcocystis spp. represent apicomplexan parasites. They usually have a heteroxenous life cycle. Around 200 species have been described, affecting a wide range of animals worldwide, including reptiles. In recent years, large numbers of reptiles have been imported into Europe as pets and, as a consequence, animal welfare and species protection issues emerged. A sample of pooled feces from four confiscated green pythons (Morelia viridis) containing Sarcocystis spp. sporocysts was investigated. These snakes were imported for the pet trade and declared as being captive-bred. Full length 18S rRNA genes were amplified, cloned into plasmids and sequenced. Two different Sarcocystis spp. sequences were identified and registered as Sarcocystis sp. from M. viridis in GenBank. Both showed a 95-97% sequence identity with the 18S rRNA gene of Sarcocystis singaporensis. Phylogenetic analysis positioned these sequences together with other Sarcocystis spp. from snakes and rodents as definitive and intermediate hosts (IH), respectively. Sequence data and also the results of clinical and parasitological examinations suggest that the snakes were definitive hosts for Sarcocystis spp. that circulate in wild IH. Thus, it seems unlikely that the infected snakes had been legally bred. Our research shows that information on the infection of snakes with Sarcocystis spp. may be used to assess compliance with regulations on the trade with wildlife species.
Identification of a vir-orthologous immune evasion gene family from primate malaria parasites.	The immune evasion gene family of malaria parasites encodes variant surface proteins that are expressed at the surface of infected erythrocytes and help the parasite in evading the host immune response by means of antigenic variation. The identification of Plasmodium vivax vir orthologous immune evasion gene family from primate malaria parasites would provide new insight into the evolution of virulence and pathogenesis. Three vir subfamilies viz. vir-B, vir-D and vir-G were successfully PCR amplified from primate malaria parasites, cloned and sequenced. DNA sequence analysis confirmed orthologues of vir-D subfamily in Plasmodium cynomolgi, Plasmodium simium, Plasmodium simiovale and Plasmodium fieldi. The identified vir-D orthologues are 1-9 distinct members of the immune evasion gene family which have 68-83% sequence identity with vir-D and 71.2-98.5% sequence identity within the members identified from primate malaria parasites. The absence of other vir subfamilies among primate malaria parasites reflects the limitations in the experimental approach. This study clearly identified the presence of vir-D like sequences in four species of Plasmodium infecting primates that would be useful in understanding the evolution of virulence in malaria parasites.
Chromosome size-correlated and chromosome size-uncorrelated homogenization of centromeric repetitive sequences in New World quails.	Many families of centromeric repetitive DNA sequences isolated from Struthioniformes, Galliformes, Falconiformes, and Passeriformes are localized primarily to microchromosomes. However, it is unclear whether chromosome size-correlated homogenization is a common characteristic of centromeric repetitive sequences in Aves. New World and Old World quails have the typical avian karyotype comprising chromosomes of two distinct sizes, and C-positive heterochromatin is distributed in centromeric regions of most autosomes and the whole W chromosome. We isolated six types of centromeric repetitive sequences from three New World quail species (Colinus virginianus, CVI; Callipepla californica, CCA; and Callipepla squamata, CSQ; Odontophoridae) and one Old World quail species (Alectoris chukar, ACH; Phasianidae), and characterized the sequences by nucleotide sequencing, chromosome in situ hybridization, and filter hybridization. The 385-bp CVI-MspI, 591-bp CCA-BamHI, 582-bp CSQ-BamHI, and 366-bp ACH-Sau3AI fragments exhibited tandem arrays of the monomer unit, and the 224-bp CVI-HaeIII and 135-bp CCA-HaeIII fragments were composed of minisatellite-like and microsatellite-like repeats, respectively. ACH-Sau3AI was a homolog of the chicken nuclear membrane repeat sequence, whose homologs are common in Phasianidae. CVI-MspI, CCA-BamHI, and CSQ-BamHI showed high homology and were specific to the Odontophoridae. CVI-MspI was localized to microchromosomes, whereas CVI-HaeIII, CCA-BamHI, and CSQ-BamHI were mapped to almost all chromosomes. CCA-HaeIII was localized to five pairs of macrochromosomes and most microchromosomes. ACH-Sau3AI was distributed in three pairs of macrochromosomes and all microchromosomes. Centromeric repetitive sequences may be homogenized in chromosome size-correlated and -uncorrelated manners in New World quails, although there may be a mechanism that causes homogenization of centromeric repetitive sequences primarily between microchromosomes, which is commonly observed in phasianid birds. 
What causes canine sino-nasal aspergillosis? A molecular approach to species identification.	On the basis of phenotypic identification methods, Aspergillus fumigatus is reported as the most commonly identified aetiological agent of canine sino-nasal aspergillosis (SNA). However, definitive identification of Aspergillus spp. using phenotypic features alone is unreliable. The aim of this study was to determine the molecular identities of fungal species causing SNA in dogs. Genomic DNA was extracted from 91 fungal isolates from 90 dogs diagnosed with SNA in Australia, the USA and Belgium, and the ITS1-5.8S-ITS2 ribosomal DNA and partial β-tubulin regions were sequenced. Eighty-eight of 91 (96.7%) isolates were identified as A. fumigatus and 3/91 (3.3%) belonged to Aspergillus section Nigri spp. (Aspergillus tubingensis: 2/91; Aspergillus uvarum: 1/91). These findings confirm that A. fumigatus is the most common aetiological agent of canine SNA. This is the first report to document a pathogenic role for A. tubingensis and A. uvarum in dogs.
Characterization of a mucoid clone of Streptococcus zooepidemicus from an epizootic of equine respiratory disease in New Caledonia.	Streptococcus equi subspecies zooepidemicus (Sz) is a tonsillar and mucosal commensal of healthy horses with the potential to cause opportunistic infections of the distal respiratory tract stressed by virus infection, transportation, training or high temperature. The invasive clone varies from horse to horse with little evidence of lateral transmission in the group. Tonsillar isolates are non-mucoid although primary isolates from opportunist lower respiratory tract infections may initially be mucoid. In this study, a novel stably mucoid Sz (SzNC) from a clonal epizootic of respiratory disease in horses in different parts of New Caledonia is described. SzNC (ST-307) was isolated in pure culture from transtracheal aspirates and as heavy growths from 80% of nasal swabs (n=31). Only 4% of swabs from unaffected horses (n=25) yielded colonies of Sz. A viral etiology was ruled out based on culture and early/late serum antibody screening. Evidence for clonality of SzNC included a mucoid colony phenotype, SzP and SzM sequences, and multilocus sequence typing. SzNC, with the exception of isolates at the end of the outbreak, was hyaluronidase positive. Its SzP protein was composed of an N2 terminal, and HV4 variable region motifs and 18 carboxy terminal PEPK repeats. Biotin labeling of surface proteins revealed DnaK and alanyl-tRNA synthetase (AlaS) on the surface of clonal isolates, but not on non-clonal non-mucoid Sz from horses in the epizootic or unrelated US isolates. Reactivity of these proteins and SzP with convalescent serum indicated expression during infection.
Experimental infection of pregnant goats with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) 1 or 2.	Infections with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) of the genus pestivirus, family Flaviviridae, are not limited to cattle but occur in various artiodactyls. Persistently infected (PI) cattle are the main source of BVDV. Persistent infections also occur in heterologous hosts such as sheep and deer. BVDV infections of goats commonly result in reproductive disease, but viable PI goats are rare. Using 2 BVDV isolates, previously demonstrated to cause PI cattle and white-tailed deer, this study evaluated the outcome of experimental infection of pregnant goats. Pregnant goats (5 goats/group) were intranasally inoculated with BVDV 1b AU526 (group 1) or BVDV 2 PA131 (group 2) at approximately 25-35 days of gestation. The outcome of infection varied considerably between groups. In group 1, only 3 does became viremic, and 1 doe gave birth to a stillborn fetus and a viable PI kid, which appeared healthy and shed BVDV continuously. In group 2, all does became viremic, 4/5 does aborted, and 1 doe gave birth to a non-viable PI kid. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated BVDV antigen in tissues of evaluated fetuses, with similar distribution but reduced intensity as compared to cattle. The genetic sequence of inoculated viruses was compared to those from PI kids and their dam. Most nucleotide changes in group 1 were present during the dam's acute infection. In group 2, a similar number of mutations resulted from fetal infection as from maternal acute infection. Results demonstrated that BVDV may cause reproductive disease but may also be maintained in goats. 
Characterization of a low pathogenic avian influenza H5N2 virus isolated from a turkey breeder flock in Manitoba, Canada.	In November 2010, an outbreak of avian influenza (AI) due to the H5N2 subtype virus occurred in a turkey breeder farm in northern Manitoba, Canada. The only clinical signs observed were depression, decrease in food consumption, and loss of egg production. The hemagglutinin (HA) cleavage (HA(0)) site of the isolated H5N2 virus was PQRETR/GLF, consistent with low pathogenic AI viruses. The intravenous pathogenicity index of this virus was zero. Whole-genome sequencing of two isolates that originated from two different barns was performed, and both isolates had 100% identical protein sequence in PB2, HA, NP, M1, M2, NS1, and NS2. The remaining gene segments (PB1, PA, and NA) had a single amino-acid difference when compared with each other. The nucleotide and protein sequences of eight gene segments from both isolates showed 99 or greater identity with other AI viruses that have been circulating in free-living aquatic birds in Canada and the United States within the last 10 yr. Phylogenetic analysis of the HA and neuraminidase (NA) gene segments showed that these viruses are closely related to other H5 strains that have been isolated from Manitoba and other parts of Canada. Serologic testing of archived serum samples collected from these turkeys a week before the outbreak showed no evidence of AI infection. In addition, other farms that were located within 3 km radius from the infected farm and farms that had epidemiologic connection with the farm also tested negative for the presence of H5N2 AI virus or antibody. This indicates that the virus might have been introduced to the farm from wild aquatic birds only a short time before detection. Results of this study highlight the importance of early detection and the significance of ongoing Canada-wide surveillance of AI in domestic poultry as well as in wild aquatic birds/ducks.
Isolation and identification of Aspergillus spp. from brown kiwi (Apteryx mantelli) nocturnal houses in New Zealand.	Aspergillosis, a disease caused by infection with Aspergillus spp., is a common cause of death in birds globally and is an irregular cause of mortality of captive kiwi (Apteryx spp.). Aspergillus spp. are often present in rotting plant material, including the litter and nesting material used for kiwi in captivity. The aim of this study was to survey nocturnal kiwi houses in New Zealand to assess the levels of Aspergillus currently present in leaf litter. Samples were received from 11 nocturnal kiwi houses from throughout New Zealand, with one site supplying multiple samples over time. Aspergillus was isolated and quantified by colony counts from litter samples using selective media and incubation temperatures. Isolates were identified to the species level by amplification and sequencing of ITS regions of the ribosomal. Aspergillus spp. were recovered from almost every sample; however, the levels in most kiwi houses were below 1000 colony-forming units (CFU)/g of wet material. The predominant species was Aspergillus fumigatus, with rare occurrences of Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus nidulans, and Aspergillus parasiticus. Only one site had no detectable Aspergillus. The limit of detection was around 50 CFU/g wet material. One site was repeatedly sampled as it had a high loading of A. fumigatus at the start of the survey and had two recent clinical cases of aspergillosis diagnosed in resident kiwi. Environmental loading at this site with Aspergillus spp. reduced but was not eliminated despite changes of the litter. The key finding of our study is that the background levels of Aspergillus spores in kiwi nocturnal houses in New Zealand are low, but occasional exceptions occur and are associated with the onset of aspergillosis in otherwise healthy birds. The predominant Aspergillus species present in the leaf litter was A. fumigatus, but other species were also present. Further research is needed to confirm the optimal management of leaf litter to minimize Aspergillus spore counts. However, in the interim, our recommendations are that leaf litter should be freshly collected from areas of undisturbed forest areas and spread immediately after collection, without interim storage.
A rapid profiling assay for avian leukosis virus subgroup E proviruses in chickens.	Endogenous retroviral elements (ERVs) are prolific components of the genomes of complex species, typically occupying more sequence space than do essential, protein-encoding genes. Much of what we know today about the structure and function, as well as the evolution and pathogenic potential, of ERVs was fleshed out over several decades during the last century using the avian leukosis virus subgroup E-related (ALVE) family of endogenous retroviruses of chickens as a model system. A critical enabling factor in the elucidation of ALVE structure and function is the ability to detect and unambiguously identify specific ALVE proviral elements and to develop accurate element profiles for individual chickens under study. Currently, the most common approach for ALVE locus detection involves element-specific PCR assays carried out using primers that target host DNA near the insertion site of the provirus (i.e., the upstream and downstream flanks of the unoccupied site). Here we describe a new approach for proviral detection that exploits restriction enzyme sites in flanking DNA to develop ALVE element profiles more rapidly than with assays currently in use. Moreover, unlike element-specific PCR tests, the "profiling" assay detects novel ALVEs for which insertion sites have not yet been identified as well as previously characterized elements.
Virulence repertoire, characterization, and antibiotic resistance pattern analysis of Escherichia coli isolated from backyard layers and their environment in India.	This study was undertaken to observe the prevalence, serogroup, avian pathogenic Escherichia coli (APEC)-associated virulence gene, randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) pattern, and antibiotic resistance genes of E. coli in backyard layers and their environment in India. From the 360 samples of healthy layers and their environment, 272 (75.5%) E. coli were isolated. The majority (28.67%) of them were untypeable. Among the studied virulence genes (papC, tsh, iucC, astA), 52 (14.32%) isolates were found to possess astA, including the isolates from the drinking water of the birds (4/272, 1.47%). These strains belonged to 18 different serogroups. Most of the isolates were typeable by RAPD and they produced different patterns. Phenotypic resistance of the isolates was most frequently observed to erythromycin (95.83%), chloramphenicol (87.52%), and cotrimoxazole (78.26%). None of the isolates was found to possess extended-spectrum beta-lactamases (bla(TEM), bla(SHV), bla(CTX-M) or quinolone resistance (qnrA) genes by PCR. The present study was the first attempt in India to assess APEC distribution in backyard poultry production.
Avian gyrovirus 2 and avirulent Newcastle disease virus coinfection in a chicken flock with neurologic symptoms and high mortalities.	A disease with severe neurologic symptoms caused 100% mortality in a small broiler operation in the Gauteng Province, South Africa in late March 2013. Routine diagnostic PCR testing failed to identify a possible cause of the outbreak; thus, samples were submitted for virus isolation, serology, and bacteriology. An avirulent Newcastle disease virus (NDV) strain isolated was identified as a V4-like genotype 1 strain, by DNA sequencing, with a cleavage site of 112GKQGR decrease L117. Real-time reverse transcription PCR identified NDV in the brain but not in cecal tonsils or pooled tracheas, spleens, lungs, and livers. A random amplification deep sequencing of a transcriptome library generated from pooled tissues produced 927,966 paired-end reads. A contig of 2,309 nucleotides was identified as a near-complete avian gyrovirus 2 (AGV2) genome. This is the first report on the African continent of AGV2, which has been reported in southern Brazil, The Netherlands, and Hong Kong thus far. A real-time PCR for AGV2 only detected the virus in the brain but not in cecal tonsils or pooled tracheas, spleens, lungs, and livers. Sequence reads also mapped to the genomes of mycoplasma, Escherichia coli, avian leukosis virus subtype J, and Marek's disease virus but excluded influenza A virus, Ornithobacterium rhinotracheale, avian rhinotracheitis virus, avian encephalomyelitis virus, and West Nile virus. Air sac swabs were positive on bacterial culture for E. coli. The possibility of a synergistic pathogenic effect between avirulent NDV and AGV2 requires further investigation.
Comparison of vaccine subpopulation selection, viral loads, vaccine virus persistence in trachea and cloaca, and mucosal antibody responses after vaccination with two different Arkansas Delmarva Poultry Industry -derived infectious bronchitis virus vaccines.	Factors responsible for the persistence of Arkansas Delmarva Poultry Industry (ArkDPI)-derived infectious bronchitis vaccines in commercial flocks and the high frequency of isolation of ArkDPI-type infectious bronchitis viruses in respiratory cases are still unclear. We compared dynamics of vaccine viral subpopulations, viral loads, persistence in trachea and cloaca, and the magnitude of infectious bronchitis virus (1BV)-specific antibody induction after vaccination with two commercial ArkDPI-derived Arkansas (Ark) serotype vaccines. One of the vaccines (coded vaccine B) produced significantly higher vaccine virus heterogeneity in vaccinated chickens than the other vaccine (coded A). Chickens vaccinated with vaccine B had significantly higher viral loads in tears at 5 days postvaccination (DPV) than those vaccinated with vaccine A. Vaccine B also induced a significantly higher lachrymal immunoglobulin M response at 11 DPV, an earlier peak of IBV-specific lachrymal immunoglobulin A, and higher serum antibodies than vaccine A. In addition, a significantly higher proportion of birds vaccinated with vaccine B had vaccine virus detected in the trachea at 20 DPV than those vaccinated with vaccine A. Furthermore, the virus detected at 20 DPV in most of the chickens vaccinated with vaccine B was a single specific subpopulation (subpopulation 4) selected from multiple vaccine subpopulations detected earlier at 5 and 7 DPV in the same chickens. On the other hand, a higher proportion of chickens vaccinated with vaccine A had virus detected in cloacal swabs at 20 DPV. Thus we found differences in mucosal antibody induction and selection and persistence of vaccine viruses between two ArkDPI-derived vaccines from different manufacturers. The higher vaccine virus heterogeneity observed in chickens vaccinated with vaccine B compared with those vaccinated with vaccine A may be responsible for these differences. Thus the high frequency of Ark IBV viruses in the field may be due to the inherent ability of some ArkDPI-derived vaccine viruses to be selected and persist in vaccinated chickens. Vaccine virus persistence may offer genetic material for recombination or may undergo mutations with the potential to result in increased virulence.
Avian paramyxovirus serotype 1 (Newcastle disease virus), avian influenza virus, and Salmonella spp. in mute swans (Cygnus olor) in the Great Lakes region and Atlantic Coast of the United States.	Since their introduction to the United States in the late 19th century, mute swans (Cygnus olor) have become a nuisance species by causing damage to aquatic habitats, acting aggressively toward humans, competing with native waterfowl, and potentially transmitting or serving as a reservoir of infectious diseases to humans and poultry. In an effort to investigate their potential role as a disease reservoir and to establish avian health baselines for pathogens that threaten agricultural species or human health, we collected samples from 858 mute swans and tested them for avian paramyxovirus serotype 1 (APMV-1), avian influenza virus (AIV), and Salmonella spp. when possible. Our results indicate that exposure to APMV-1 and AIV is common (60%, n = 771, and 45%, n = 344, antibody prevalence, respectively) in mute swans, but detection of active viral shedding is less common (8.7%, n = 414, and 0.8%, n = 390, respectively). Salmonella was isolated from three mute swans (0.6%, n = 459), and although the serovars identified have been implicated in previous human outbreaks, it does not appear that Salmonella is commonly carried by mute swans.
Phylogenetic relationship of serovar C-1 isolates of Avibacterium paragallinarum.	The bacterium Avibacterium paragallinarum is the etiologic agent of infectious coryza of chickens. Serovar C-1 has emerged in infectious coryza outbreaks in layer hens of Ecuador and Mexico. In the current study, genotyping and phylogenetic analyses of five Ecuadorian and 10 Mexican isolates of Av. paragallinarum serovar C-1 were performed. All 15 isolates share a unique enterobacterial repetitive intergenic consensus-based-PCR fingerprint and have identical 16S ribosomal RNA and hemagglutinin antigen gene sequences. Results indicate that Ecuadorian and Mexican isolates of serovar C-1 of Av. paragallinarum have a clonal relationship.
Diagnosis of Leucocytozoon caulleryi infection in commercial broiler breeders in South Korea.	This report confirms a recent outbreak of a Leucocytozoon caulleryi infection in a commercial broiler breeder flock in South Korea. Seven, 18-day-old broiler breeders (Gallus gallus) were necropsied following a history of depression, sudden death, and subcutaneous hemorrhages. On necropsy, subcutaneous hemorrhages were identified in the wings and legs, pectoral and thigh muscles, thymus, epicardium, pancreas, and kidneys. On histopathology, there were numerous schizonts and merozoits of a Leucocytozoon sp. noted in the heart, spleen, liver, kidneys, thymus, and bursa of Fabricius. Molecular analysis of the mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase b confirmed that the causative agent was Leucocytozoon caulleryi. Although L. caulleryi was diagnosed previously in South Korea, there had been no reports of L. caulleryi over the past several decades.
Fatal proventricular dilatation disease in captive native psittacines in Brazil.	An outbreak of proventricular dilatation disease (PDD), a fatal inflammatory disease of psittacines (Aves: Psittaciformes), is described in native Brazilian psittacines. Twenty captive psittacines that died of suspected PDD were necropsied and 10 were submitted to histopathology, reverse transcriptase PCR (RT-PCR), and immunohistochemistry (IHC) for avian bornavirus (ABV). Examined species were one pileated parrot (Pionopsitta pileata), three vinaceous-breasted parrots (Amazona vinacea), two blue-winged macaws (Primolius maracana), one scarlet macaw (Ara macao), one chestnut-fronted macaw (Ara severa), one scaly-headed parrot (Pionus maximiliani), and one red-browed Amazon parrot (Amazona rhodocorytha). Gross examination and histopathology revealed typical PDD lesions in all birds. The presence of ABV was confirmed in four psittacines including one red-browed Amazon parrot, one blue-winged macaw, one scarlet macaw, and one chestnut-fronted macaw. In the red-browed Amazon parrot and in one blue-winged macaw, IHC demonstrated ABV antigens in the nucleus and cytoplasm of cells in various organs. This is the first description of PDD by ABV in Brazilian psittacines and indicates the necessity for adopting a strategic control plan for reducing its impact in native birds.
A new method of paternity testing for dogs, based on microsatellite sequences.	Microsatellite sequences, like minisatellites, belong to a class of polymorphic DNA that is commonly found in mammalian DNA. Although they vary significantly less in a population of animals than minisatellites, they have potential for use in paternity disputes. However, their inherently lower variability together with the more genetically homogeneous nature of pedigree dogs due to inbreeding (line breeding), raised doubts about their effectiveness for paternity tests. This paper demonstrates that canine microsatellites provide an adequate basis for assigning paternity in pedigree breeds. The system presented is more straightforward to perform and interpret than that based on canine minisatellites (DNA 'fingerprinting') and requires as little as 0.1 ml of blood.
