The anatomy of the human genome: a neo-Vesalian basis for medicine in the 21st century.	Since 1956, the anatomy of the human genome has been described on the basis of chromosome studies, gene mapping, and DNA sequencing. The gross anatomy of Andreas Vesalius, published in 1543, played a leading role in the development of modern medicine. The objective of this article is to show that knowledge of genomic anatomy is having a comparably strong and pervasive influence on all of medicine. The research revealing human genome anatomy is reviewed. The insight provided by genome anatomy has brought about shifts of focus, both in research and in the clinic, eg, from genomics to proteomic and from the individually rare, single-gene disorders to common disorders. Genomic anatomy permits medicine to become more predictive and preventive. At the same time, diagnosis and treatment are rendered more sensitive, specific, effective, and safe. Hazards in misuse and misunderstanding of the information exist. Education of both the public and health professionals is vital if the full benefits of neo-Vesalian medicine are to be realized.
God's signature: DNA profiling, the new gold standard in forensic science.	In the mid-1980s, when the first DNA profiling techniques were developed, the name DNA 'fingerprinting' was widely used. At the time, fingerprinting was a well-established forensic method, and it was rarely questioned in the courts. Fingerprint examiners were permitted to describe matching prints as evidence of individual identity, and they were not required to give probability estimates. Despite its nominal association with the older technique, DNA 'fingerprinting' went through a period of controversy, especially in the US courts. The association with fingerprinting was questioned, and experts were required to qualify their testimony with probability figures. Heated debate occurred in scientific publications and law courts about the statistical and population genetic assumptions that went into the probability calculations presented in court cases. However, by the late 1990s DNA profiling was so widely accepted that it became a basis for invidious comparison with all other forms of forensic evidence, including fingerprinting. In the past three years, the admissibility of fingerprint evidence has been challenged in several US federal and state courts. This article discusses the socio-legal and socio-technical issues that led to the inversion of credibility that characterized the intertwined history of the two techniques.
The history of pyrosequencing.	One late afternoon in the beginning of January 1986, bicycling from the lab over the hill to the small village of Fullbourn, the idea for an alternative DNA sequencing technique came to my mind. The basic concept was to follow the activity of DNA polymerase during nucleotide incorporation into a DNA strand by analyzing the pyrophosphate released during the process. Today, the technique is used in multidisciplinary fields in academic, clinical, and industrial settings all over the word. The technique can be used for both single-base sequencing and whole-genome sequencing, depending on the format used. In this chapter I will give my personal account of the development of Pyrosequencing--beginning on a winter day in 1986, when I first envisioned the method--until today, nearly 20 yr later. I will conclude with future prospects for the method.
Arabidopsis, the botanical Drosophila: from mouse cress to model organism.	The small flowering plant Arabidopsis thaliana is the best-studied model organism in plant biology. More resources are allocated to research on this little weed than to the study of well-known favourites such as worms, fruit flies and mice. Yet, up to the early 1980s plant biologists had every good reason to ignore Arabidopsis: neither did it seem to possess the characteristics of a good model organism, nor did it have any agricultural promise. The sudden prestige acquired by Arabidopsis research thus constitutes a remarkable historical puzzle. What made the mouse cress into the most successful model organism to date?
Mapping and sequencing information: the social context for the genomics revolution.	In 1983, after devoting some eight years of his life to the description of how a nematode worm develops from an embryo into an adult, molecular biologist John Sulston embarked on a remarkably different project: he decided to map the worm's genome. Sulston's impulsive desire to characterise this creature's DNA from start to finish offers only a partial explanation for this transition. Instead, a close examination of the wider social context for this 'moment' in molecular biology gives a more rewarding explanation of Sulston's intellectual leap. This reveals a world in which biotechnology gradually adapted to and integrated into an 'information society' increasingly dependent on the creation, distribution and manipulation of information. The application of computing to DNA during the first half of the 1980s was crucial for this integration, fostering the emergence of genomics and ultimately the Human Genome Project.
