Granzyme A activates an endoplasmic reticulum-associated caspase-independent nuclease to induce single-stranded DNA nicks.	The cytotoxic T lymphocyte protease granzyme A (GzmA) initiates a novel caspase-independent cell death pathway characterized by single-stranded DNA nicking. The previously identified GzmA substrate SET is in a multimeric 270-420-kDa endoplasmic reticulum-associated complex that also contains the tumor suppressor protein pp32. GzmA cleaved the nucleosome assembly protein SET after Lys(176) and disrupted its nucleosome assembly activity. The purified SET complex required only GzmA to reconstitute single-stranded DNA nicking in isolated nuclei. DNA nicking occurred independently of caspase activation. The SET complex contains a 25-kDa Mg(2+)-dependent nuclease that degrades calf thymus DNA and plasmid DNA. Thus, GzmA activates a DNase (GzmA-activated DNase) within the SET complex to produce a novel form of DNA damage during cytotoxic T lymphocyte-mediated death.
Functional effects of protease-activated receptor-2 stimulation on human airway smooth muscle.	The protease-activated receptor (PAR)-2 is present on the smooth muscle and epithelium of human airways and can be activated by mast cell tryptase, trypsin, or the PAR-2 activating peptide (AP). Trypsin and the PAR-2 AP induced contractions in human isolated airways, and these contractions were potentiated in the presence of the cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitor indomethacin. Trypsin also increased the contractions to histamine in airways from sensitized (allergic) patients but not from nonsensitized (nonallergic) patients. Tryptase purified from human lung, skin and lung recombinant beta-tryptases, trypsin, and the PAR-2 AP all increased DNA synthesis in human airway smooth muscle (HASM) cells. Activation of PAR-2 by tryptase, trypsin, and the PAR-2 AP did not induce PGE(2) release from HASM cells. Trypsin and the PAR-2 AP increased the levels of intracellular calcium in HASM cells, with desensitization evident after treatment with either agonist. In conclusion, activation of PAR-2 can induce contractions of human airways, potentiate contractions to histamine, and induce proliferation and therefore may contribute to airway diseases such as asthma.
The differentiation and function of myofibroblasts is regulated by mast cell mediators.	Myofibroblasts are fibroblasts that express certain features of smooth muscle differentiation. Increased numbers of myofibroblasts and mast cells are frequently found together in a wide variety of settings, such as normal wound repair and scleroderma skin, which suggests that mediators produced by the mast cells could play a role in the regulation of myofibroblast differentiation and function. We used a human mast cell line, HMC-1, to determine if mast cells can induce normal human dermal fibroblasts to differentiate into functional myofibroblasts in vitro. We monitored the differentiation process by assaying two properties of the myofibroblast phenotype: expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin and functional capacity to contract a collagen matrix. In both a simple coculture system and in a skin-equivalent culture system, HMC-1 cells induced alpha-smooth muscle actin expression by fibroblasts. HMC-1 cells also stimulated fibroblast contraction of collagen gels, and the relative amount of contraction was dependent upon the number of HMC-1 cells present. To characterize the individual contributions made by specific mast cell products, we examined the effects of histamine, tumor necrosis factor alpha, and tryptase. Histamine induced a clear increase in alpha-smooth muscle actin expression, but it did not appear to stimulate fibroblast contraction. Tumor necrosis factor alpha had no effect in either assay. Purified human tryptase induced alpha-smooth muscle actin expression, and blocking the proteolytic activity of tryptase with specific inhibitors reduced that response. Tryptase inhibitors also eliminated the ability of HMC-1 cells to stimulate fibroblast contraction, suggesting that tryptase secreted by the HMC-1 cells may be one of the active mast cell mediators.
Slow internal dynamics of membrane proteins in mechanisms of protease-induced aggregation of platelets.	Room temperature tryptophan phosphorescence (RTTP) of suspensions of human platelets was studied. RTTP spectra and decay kinetics of both intact platelets and those after short-term incubation with low concentrations of thrombin or trypsin (0.3-50 microg/ml) were investigated. Protease-induced changes in the RTTP lifetime of platelets were observed, and interpreted in terms of the slow internal dynamics of membrane protein modification. The functional role of membrane protein internal dynamics is discussed in the context of platelet aggregation and signal transduction processes.
Procarboxypeptidase A from the insect pest Helicoverpa armigera and its derived enzyme. Two forms with new functional properties.	Although there is a significant knowledge about mammalian metallocarboxypeptidases, the data available on this family of enzymes is very poor for invertebrate forms. Here we present the biochemical characterization of a metallocarboxypeptidase from the insect Helicoverpa armigera (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae), a devastating pest spread in subtropical regions of Europe, Asia, Africa and Oceania. The zymogen of this carboxypeptidase (PCPAHa) has been expressed at high levels in a Pichia pastoris system and shown to display the characteristics of the enzyme purified from the insect midgut. The in vitro activation process of the proenzyme differs significantly from the mammalian ones. The lysine-specific endoprotease LysC activates PCPAHa four times more efficiently than trypsin, the general activating enzyme for all previously studied metalloprocarboxypeptidases. LysC and trypsin independently use two different activation targets and the presence of sugars in the vicinity of the LysC activation point affects the activation process, indicating a possible modulation of the activation mechanism. During the activation with LysC the prodomain is degraded, while the carboxypeptidase moiety remains intact except for a C-terminal octapeptide that is rapidly released. Interestingly, the sequence at the cleavage point for the release of the octapeptide is also found at the boundary between the activation peptide and the enzyme moieties. The active enzyme (CPAHa) is shown to have a very broad substrate specificity, as it appears to be the only known metallocarboxypeptidase capable of efficiently hydrolysing basic and aliphatic residues and, to a much lower extent, acidic residues. Two carboxypeptidase inhibitors, from potato and leech, were tested against CPAHa. The former, of vegetal origin, is the most efficient metallocarboxypeptidase inhibitor described so far, with a Ki in the pm range.
Binding of EBNA-1 to DNA creates a protease-resistant domain that encompasses the DNA recognition and dimerization functions.	The Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen EBNA-1 is essential for replication of the viral DNA during latency. EBNA-1 binds as a dimer to palindromic recognition sequences within the plasmid origin of replication, ori-P. In this study, proteinase K susceptibility has been used to further characterize the DNA-binding domain of EBNA-1. Limited protease digestion of EBNA-1 (amino acids 408 to 641) generated a smaller DNA-binding species that had a degree of inherent protease resistance. When EBNA-1 was preincubated with a specific DNA probe, the protease resistance of the smaller binding species increased 100-fold, suggesting that the conformation of EBNA-1 changes on binding. The protease-resistant species comprised an 18-kDa polypeptide that was further cleaved at high levels of protease to 11- and 5.4-kDa products. A model of the proposed protease-resistant domain structure is presented. Constructions carrying serial, internal deletions across the 18-kDa domain were created. Each of the deletions perturbed dimerization ability and abolished DNA binding. These studies suggest that the DNA-binding and dimerization motifs of EBNA-1 lie within a conformationally discrete domain whose overall integrity is necessary for EBNA-1-DNA interaction.
SRP-2 is a cross-class inhibitor that participates in postembryonic development of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans: initial characterization of the clade L serpins.	High molecular weight serpins are members of a large superfamily of structurally conserved proteins that inactivate target proteinases by a suicide substrate-like mechanism. In vertebrates, different clades of serpins distribute predominantly to either the intracellular or extracellular space. Although much is known about the function, structure, and inhibitory mechanism of circulating serpins such as alpha(1)-antitrypsin (SERPINA1) and antithrombin III (SERPINC1), relatively little is known about the function of the vertebrate intracellular (clade B) serpins. To gain a better understanding of the biology of the intracellular serpins, we initiated a comparative genomics study using Caenorhabditis elegans as a model system. A screen of the C. elegans genomic and cDNA databases revealed nine serpin genes, tandemly arrayed on chromosome V. Although the C. elegans serpins represent a unique clade (L), they share significant functional homology with members of the clade B group of intracellular serpins, since they lack typical N-terminal signal peptides and reside intracellularly. To determine whether nematode serpins function as proteinase inhibitors, one family member, srp-2, was chosen for further characterization. Biochemical analysis of recombinant SRP-2 protein revealed SRP-2 to be a dual cross-class inhibitor of the apoptosis-related serine proteinase, granzyme B, and the lysosomal cysteine proteinases, cathepsins K, L, S, and V. Analysis of temporal and spatial expression indicated that SRP-2 was present during early embryonic development and highly expressed in the intestine and hypoderm of larval and adult worms. Transgenic animals engineered to overexpress SRP-2 were slow growing and/or arrested at the first, second, or third larval stages. These data suggest that perturbations of serpin-proteinase balance are critical for correct postembryonic development in C. elegans.
Omi/HtrA2 protease mediates cisplatin-induced cell death in renal cells.	Omi/HtrA2 is a mitochondrial proapoptotic serine protease that is able to induce both caspase-dependent and caspase-independent cell death. After apoptotic stimuli, Omi is released to the cytoplasm where it binds and cleaves inhibitor of apoptosis proteins. In this report, we investigated the role of Omi in renal cell death following cisplatin treatment. Using primary mouse proximal tubule cells, as well as established renal cell lines, we show that the level of Omi protein is upregulated after treatment with cisplatin. This upregulation is followed by the release of Omi from mitochondria to the cytoplasm and degradation of XIAP. Reducing the endogenous level of Omi protein using RNA interference renders renal cells resistant to cisplatin-induced cell death. Furthermore, we show that the proteolytic activity of Omi is necessary and essential for cisplatin-induced cell death in this system. When renal cells are treated with Omi's specific inhibitor, ucf-101, they become significantly resistant to cisplatin-induced cell death. Ucf-101 was also able to minimize cisplatin-induced nephrotoxic injury in animals. Our results demonstrate that Omi is a major mediator of cisplatin-induced cell death in renal cells and suggest a way to limit renal injury by specifically inhibiting its proteolytic activity.
Effect of tryptase inhibitors on histamine release from human colon mast cells]	To investigate the effect of tryptase inhibitors (TPIs) on histamine release from human colon mast cells.
Protease-activated receptor stimulation activates a Ca2+-independent phospholipase A2 in bladder microvascular endothelial cells.	Increased mast cell numbers and mast cell activation represent one of the prevalent etiologic theories for interstitial cystitis, an inflammatory condition in the bladder. This study was designed primarily to determine whether increased mast cell tryptase in the bladder wall may play a role in activating bladder endothelial cell phospholipase A(2) (PLA(2)), leading to increased inflammatory phospholipid metabolite accumulation, which may propagate the inflammatory process. We stimulated human bladder microvascular endothelial cells with thrombin or tryptase and measured the activation of PLA(2) and the production of multiple membrane phospholipid-derived inflammatory mediators. Thrombin and tryptase stimulation resulted in activation of a Ca(2+)-independent PLA(2), leading to increased release of arachidonic acid and prostacyclin and increased production of platelet-activating factor. These responses were blocked completely by pretreatment of human bladder microvascular endothelial cells with the Ca(2+)-independent PLA(2)-selective inhibitor bromoenol lactone. The combination of increased prostacyclin and platelet-activating factor in the bladder circulation may result in vasodilation and increased polymorphonuclear leukocyte adherence to the endothelium and may facilitate recruitment of polymorphonuclear leukocytes to the bladder wall of patients with interstitial cystitis.
Inhibition of tryptase and chymase induced nucleated cell infiltration by proteinase inhibitors.	To investigate the ability of proteinase inhibitors to modulate nucleated cell infiltration into the peritoneum of mice induced by tryptase and chymase.
Butyrylcholinesterase from chicken brain is smaller than that from serum: its purification, glycosylation, and membrane association.	Applying a new four-step isolation procedure, we have purified butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) from chicken serum to homogeneity with more than 250 U/mg specific activity. The serum enzyme was used for producing monoclonal antibodies. These BChE-specific also recognize BChE from brain, and thus enabled us to isolate the enzymes from embryonic and adult brain that occur only in minute amounts. More than 50% of the brain BChE is membrane-bound. The catalytic and inhibition properties of brain BChE are similar to those of serum BChE. However on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, the serum enzyme is represented by a double-band of 79/82 kDa, whereas the brain enzyme has a size of 74 kDa. Limited digestion of the serum and brain preparations by V8-protease leads to similar peptide patterns. Enzymatic deglycosylation shows that their core proteins consist of 59-kDa subunits and that the different molecular weights are due to different glycosylation patterns. The differently sized glycosylation parts of brain and serum BChE may indicate that they subserve different functions. Furthermore, the membrane-bound brain BChE can be solubilized by Pronase or protease K, but not by phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C.
Reelin induces the detachment of postnatal subventricular zone cells and the expression of the Egr-1 through Erk1/2 activation.	Reelin binds to very low-density lipoprotein receptor and apolipoprotein E receptor 2, thereby inducing mDab1 phosphorylation and activation of the phosphatidylinositide 3 kinase (PI3K) pathway. Here we demonstrate that Reelin activates the mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway, which leads to the phosphorylation of Erk1/2 proteins. The inhibition of Src family kinases (SFK) blocked Reelin-dependent Erk1/2 activation. This was also shown in neuronal cultures from mDab1-deficient mice. Although rat sarcoma viral oncogene was weakly activated upon Reelin treatment, pharmacological inhibition of the PI3K pathway blocked Reelin-dependent ERK activation, which indicates cross talk between the ERK and PI3K pathways. We show that blockade of the ERK pathway does not prevent the chain migration of neurons from the subventricular zone (SVZ) but does inhibit the Reelin-dependent detachment of migrating neurons. We also show that Reelin induces the transcription of the early growth response 1 transcription factor. Our findings demonstrate that Reelin triggers ERK signaling in an SFK/mDab1- and PI3K-dependent manner and that ERK activation is required for Reelin-dependent transcriptional activation and the detachment of neurons migrating from the SVZ.
The use of UV light as a cross-linking agent for cells and tissue sections in in situ hybridization.	UV cross-linking is introduced as a novel method to stabilize tissue on microscopic slides and to immobilize target molecules in biological material for in situ hybridization. UV illumination dramatically improves the stability of tissue sections and isolated cells on slides coated with gelatin/poly-lysine. Even during prolonged high-stringency washes, specimens remain firmly attached to the support layer. At the same time, the signal intensity is increased significantly whereas background levels remain as low as without UV illumination. These results indicate that while target RNAs and other molecules in the biological material are covalently cross-linked with their nearest neighbor molecules, tissues nonetheless remain penetrable, and target molecules remain accessible. We expect that this simple and efficient technique will find widespread applications in in situ hybridization methodology.
Molybdenum requirement for translocation of dimethyl sulfoxide reductase to the periplasmic space in a photodenitrifier, Rhodobacter sphaeroides f. sp. denitrificans.	Translocation of dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) reductase to the periplasmic space was studied in vivo with a photodenitrifier, Rhodobacter sphaeroides f. sp. denitrificans, using immunoblotting analysis and radioactive labeling. A polypeptide with an apparent molecular mass about 2,000 Da higher than that of DMSO reductase accumulated during induction of the reductase with DMSO. An uncoupler, carbonyl cyanide-m-chlorophenylhydrazone, inhibited the processing of the polypeptide after cells had been radioactively pulse-labeled with [35S]methionine. These results indicated that the higher-molecular-mass polypeptide was the precursor form of DMSO reductase. The precursor form accumulated in either the cytoplasm or the membrane, whereas the mature form accumulated in the periplasmic space. The membrane-bound precursor was sensitive to proteinase K treatment from both the cytoplasmic and periplasmic sides of the membrane, indicating that the polypeptide binds to the membrane, exposing it to both the outer and inner surfaces of the cytoplasmic membrane. Processing of the precursor was hampered by removal of molybdate from the medium and was restored by its readdition. It was also inhibited by the addition of tungstate in the medium.
Purification and partial characterization of the major cell-associated heparan sulphate proteoglycan of rat liver.	Heparan sulphate proteoglycans were solubilized from whole rat livers by homogenization and dissociative extraction with 4 M-guanidinium chloride containing Triton X-100 and proteinase inhibitors. The extract was subjected to trichloroacetic acid precipitation and the proteoglycan remained soluble. This was then purified to apparent homogeneity by a combination of (a) DEAE-Sephacel chromatography, (b) digestion with chondroitinase ABC followed by f.p.l.c. Mono Q ion-exchange chromatography, and (c) density-gradient centrifugation in CsCl and 4 M-guanidinium chloride. Approx. 1.5 mg of proteoglycan was obtained from 30 livers with an estimated recovery of 25%. The purified proteoglycan was eluted from Sepharose CL6B as an apparently single polydisperse population with a Kav. of 0.19 and displayed a molecular mass of greater than or equal to 200 kDa (relative to protein standards) by SDS/PAGE. Its heparan sulphate chains were eluted with a Kav. of 0.44 and have an estimated molecular mass of 25 kDa. Digestion of the proteoglycan with a combination of heparinases yielded core proteins of 77, 49 and 44 kDa. Deglycosylation using trifluoromethanesulphonic acid, though slightly decreasing the sizes, gave an identical pattern of core proteins. Electrophoretic detergent blotting demonstrated that all of the core proteins were hydrophobic and are probably integral plasma membrane molecules. The peptide maps generated by V8 proteinase digestion of the two major core proteins (77 and 49 kDa) were very similar, suggesting that these two core proteins are structurally related.
Specific binding of crotoxin to brain synaptosomes and synaptosomal membranes.	Crotoxin, the presynaptic neurotoxin from Crotalus durissus terrificus, was iodinated and used to demonstrate high affinity, specific binding to guinea-pig (Cavia porcellus) brain synaptosomes and synaptosomal membrane fragments. 125I-crotoxin binding to the membrane fragments displays two binding plateaus, (Kd1 = 4 nM and Kd2 = 87 nM, Bmax1 = 2 and Bmax2 = 4 pmoles/mg membrane protein), but binding to whole synaptosomes revealed only one plateau (Kd = 2 nM and Bmax = 5 pmoles/mg membrane protein). Rosenthal analyses of Scatchard plots yielded similar binding constants in the presence or absence of 0.025% Triton X-100. In addition to equilibrium analyses, kinetic analyses of 125I-crotoxin binding to synaptosomal membrane fragments gave a Kd-value of 3 nM. The Kd value was not significantly changed by the exclusion of added calcium, but the binding site number was lowered. Crotoxin binding was inhibited by the acidic subunit of crotoxin and several presynaptic neurotoxins, which were classified according to their inhibitory properties as, strong (acidic subunit of crotoxin, Mojave toxin, concolor toxin, taipoxin and pseudexin), moderate (ammodytoxin A and textilotoxin), weak (notexin and scutoxin A), very weak (notechis II-5) and non-inhibitory (basic subunit of crotoxin, beta-bungarotoxin, Crotalus atrox and porcine pancreatic phospholipases A2, dendrotoxin, and notechis III-4). Purified acidic subunit of crotoxin, the most potent competitor of crotoxin binding, was somewhat more competitive than intact crotoxin and the other strong inhibitors on a molar basis. Strong, moderate and weak inhibitor groups each differed from the preceding group by requiring about a ten fold increase in concentration to effect a 50% inhibition of crotoxin binding. The weak group was therefore at least two-orders of magnitude less effective than the strong inhibition shown by the acidic subunit of crotoxin. Treatment of synaptosomal membranes with protease K lowered 125I-crotoxin binding, whereas treatment with trypsin did not. Iodinated, phospholipase A2 from C. atrox venom showed no specific binding to whole synaptosomes. Our results demonstrate the presence and describe some of the properties of high affinity, specific binding sites in brain tissue for crotoxin and related presynaptic neurotoxins.
Characterization of binding proteins from ovarian carcinoma and kidney tubule cells that are specific for cisplatin modified DNA.	We have detected proteins in nuclear extracts from ovarian carcinoma cells and kidney tubule cells that bind specifically to platinated DNA. A 123-bp restriction fragment was platinated with cisplatin (DDP) to a formal molar platinum to nucleotide ratio of 0.05 and end-labeled with [32P]-dCTP. Incubation with nuclear extracts from 2008 human ovarian carcinoma cells caused shifts in the mobility of this probe in non-denaturing polyacrylamide gels. Proteinase K, but not ribonuclease A, destroyed the bands. Comparison of the shifted bands generated by DDP-resistant 2008 and A2780 human ovarian carcinoma cell nuclear extracts with bands from the corresponding sensitive cells showed no differences in protein levels. The affinity of the proteins for the probe was the same in sensitive and resistant 2008 nuclear extracts as determined by competition with platinated salmon sperm DNA. These proteins also bound to a probe damaged with 1,2-diaminocyclohexaneplatinum(II) dichloride but did not bind to a trans-DDP platinated probe. No differences were found in the levels of UV4 or UV5 Chinese hamster ovary cells, which were hypersensitive to DDP compared to wild-type AA8 cells. MDCK and LLC-PK1 kidney tubule cells, which were more resistant to DDP cytotoxicity than 2008 cells, exhibited decreased levels of these proteins. We conclude that, although these proteins that recognize DDP damage in DNA may be involved in excision repair, their levels did not correlate with DDP sensitivity in this panel of cell lines.
Inhibiting the C5-C5a receptor axis.	Activation of the complement system is a major pathogenic event that drives various inflammatory responses in numerous diseases. All pathways of complement activation lead to cleavage of the C5 molecule generating the anaphylatoxin C5a and, C5b that subsequently forms the terminal complement complex (C5b-9). C5a exerts a predominant pro-inflammatory activity through interactions with the classical G-protein coupled receptor C5aR (CD88) as well as with the non-G protein coupled receptor C5L2 (GPR77), expressed on various immune and non-immune cells. C5b-9 causes cytolysis through the formation of the membrane attack complex (MAC), and sub-lytic MAC and soluble C5b-9 also possess a multitude of non-cytolytic immune functions. These two complement effectors, C5a and C5b-9, generated from C5 cleavage, are key components of the complement system responsible for propagating and/or initiating pathology in different diseases, including paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria, rheumatoid arthritis, ischemia-reperfusion injuries and neurodegenerative diseases. Thus, the C5-C5a receptor axis represents an attractive target for drug development. This review provides a comprehensive analysis of different methods of inhibiting the generation of C5a and C5b-9 as well as the signalling cascade of C5a via its receptors. These include the inhibition of C5 cleavage through targeting of C5 convertases or via the C5 molecule itself, as well as blocking the activity of C5a by neutralizing antibodies and pharmacological inhibitors, or by targeting C5a receptors per se. Examples of drugs and naturally occurring compounds used are discussed in relation to disease models and clinical trials. To date, only one such compound has thus far made it to clinical medicine: the anti-C5 antibody eculizumab, for treating paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria. However, a number of drug candidates are rapidly emerging that are currently in early-phase clinical trials. The C5-C5a axis as a target for drug development is highly promising for the treatment of currently intractable major human diseases.
Pyroglutamyl peptidase II inhibition enhances the analeptic effect of thyrotropin-releasing hormone in the rat medial septum.	Thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH; pGlu-His-Pro-NH(2)) has multiple, but transient, homeostatic functions in the brain. It is hydrolyzed in vitro by pyroglutamyl peptidase II (PPII), a narrow specificity ectoenzyme with a preferential localization in the brain, but evidence that PPII controls TRH communication in the brain in vivo is scarce. We therefore studied in male Wistar rats the distribution of PPII mRNA in the septum and the consequence of PPII inhibition on the analeptic effect of TRH injected into the medial septum. Twelve to 14% of cell profiles expressed PPII mRNA in the medial septum-diagonal band of Broca; in this region the specific activity of PPII was relatively high. Twenty to 35% of PPII mRNA-labeled profiles were positive for TRH-receptor 1 (TRH-R1) mRNA. The intramedial septum injection of TRH reduced, in a dose-dependent manner, the duration of ethanol-induced loss of righting reflex (LORR). Injection of the PPII inhibitor pGlu-Asn-Pro-7-amido-4-methylcoumarin into the medial septum enhanced the effect of TRH. The injection of a phosphinic TRH analog, a higher-affinity inhibitor of PPII, diminished the duration of LORR by itself. In contrast, the intraseptal injection of pGlu-Asp-Pro-NH(2), a peptide that did not inhibit PPII activity, or an inhibitor of prolyl oligopeptidase did not change the duration of LORR. We conclude that in the medial septum PPII activity may limit TRH action, presumably by reducing the concentration of TRH in the extracellular fluid around cells coexpressing PPII and TRH-R1.
Activation of human protein C by blood coagulation factor Xa in the presence of anionic phospholipids. Enhancement by sulphated polysaccharides.	The activation of protein C by thrombin is thought to occur at the endothelial cell surface in the presence of an essential membrane glycoprotein cofactor, thrombomodulin. In the present study it is demonstrated that, in the presence of hirudin, the most potent known inhibitor of thrombin, human protein C can be activated by human factor Xa (20 nM), but by a thrombomodulin-independent mechanism requiring only the presence of Ca2+ and phospholipid vesicles bearing a high proportion of negative charges (30-75% phosphatidylserine, depending on the conditions). At an optimal concentration of phosphatidylserine/phosphatidylcholine (1:1, w/w) of 75 microM, the apparent Km was 1 microM with a kcat. of 1 min-1. At 25 microM-phospholipid the Km was unchanged and the kcat. was 0.67 min-1. At either lipid concentration, increasing the density of negative charges by the adjunction of sulphated polysaccharides, like pentosan polysulphate or standard heparin at optimal concentrations of 2-5 micrograms/ml and 5-10 micrograms/ml respectively, resulted in a 4-fold increase of the kcat. without affecting the Km. Sulphated polysaccharides alone were poor promoters of protein C activation by factor Xa. In any case the presence of Ca2+ was essential, the dependence being sigmoidal with Hill coefficients ranging from 1.4 to 2.0. No significant activation of 4-carboxyglutamic acid-domainless protein C, a chymotrypic derivative lacking the phospholipid-binding domain, could be detected in the presence of phospholipids and Ca2+, with or without pentosan polysulphate. In a large molar excess, other phospholipid-binding entities like prothrombin fragments F1 or F1+2 could inhibit protein C activation by factor Xa, but pentosan polysulphate exerted a clear protective effect. Factor Xa irreversibly inhibited at its active centre, but not di-isopropyl phosphoro-thrombin, behaved as an inhibitor but in a more complex manner than simple Michaelis-Menten kinetics. Among several derivatives of pentosan polysulphate or of heparin which were tested, those having the higher degree of sulphation and/or molecular mass were the most efficient in enhancing the rate of activation of protein C by factor Xa in the presence of phospholipids. These results suggest that human factor Xa, at physiological concentrations, could activate human protein C in the presence of anionic phospholipids and that this activation could be potentiated by therapeutic concentrations of sulphated polysaccharides.
Adhesion to and invasion of HEp-2 cells by Campylobacter spp.	Twenty-one isolates were tested for their ability to adhere to and invade HEp-2 cells in vitro. Of the 21 organisms tested, 2 did not invade the HEp-2 cells, and 1 of these did not adhere to the epithelial cells. Campylobacter jejuni clinical isolates were more invasive than the nonclinical strains that were tested. When HEp-2 cells were treated with cytochalasin B, the invasiveness of C. jejuni was reduced, indicating active participation of the host cell in the uptake of these organisms. The number of intracellular C. jejuni isolates decreased when Campylobacter whole-cell lysates were absorbed onto HEp-2 cell monolayers. Experiments were also conducted to identify the functional sites of the antigens responsible for expression of Campylobacter invasion. Oxidation of lysates with sodium meta-periodate significantly affected its inhibitory capacity. This implies that the Campylobacter invasive ligand appears to be dependent upon an intact carbohydrate moiety.
Preliminary estimation of chemoattractant activity of staphylococcal serine proteinase in vitro. Chemoattractant activity of staphylococcal serine proteinase.	Human polymorphonuclear leukocytes isolated from peripheral blood of healthy donors migrated toward the staphylococcal serine proteinase.
Comparison of the platelet aggregation induced by three thrombin-like enzymes of snake venoms and thrombin.	Platelet aggregation induced by three thrombin-like enzymes of snake venoms was compared with that by thrombin. Acutin was isolated from Agkistrodon acutus venom and thrombocytin and batroxobin were from Bothrops atrox venom. The fibrinogen-clotting activities were 700, 170 and 7 U/mg for batroxobin, acutin and thrombocytin, respectively. They induced aggregation and ATP release of washed rabbit platelets. The aggregating activity of thrombin was 10(2), 10(4) and 10(5) times more potent than those of thrombocytin, acutin and batroxobin, respectively. Platelet-activating potency of the thrombin-like enzymes was correlated with their effectiveness on the retractility and elasticity of the clots. Platelet aggregation induced by thrombin or thrombocytin could be inhibited by heparin with antithrombin III while that by acutin or batroxobin could not. Indomethacin showed weak inhibition on the aggregation while the ADP-scavenging system, creatine phosphate/creatine phosphokinase, inhibited the aggregation induced by the three thrombin-like enzymes but not that by thrombin. Platelet aggregation induced by the thrombin-like enzymes could not be inhibited by PAF antagonists-BN 52021, kadsurenone or L-652,731. In the presence of EGTA, only thrombin could induce ATP release from platelets. Thrombin-like enzymes and low concentration of thrombin did not form thromboxane B2. Nitroprusside and prostaglandin E1 completely inhibited the aggregation, mepacrine and imipramine showed marked inhibition while verapamil had only weak inhibition. It is concluded that the aggregation induced by the thrombin-like enzymes is different from that of thrombin and mainly due to ADP released from platelets.
Kinin and angiotensin metabolism by purified renal post-proline cleaving enzyme.	Post-proline cleaving enzyme (PPCE; EC 3.4.21.26) is a proline specific endopeptidase capable of hydrolyzing biologically active peptides. The present studies examined the hydrolysis of kinin- and angiotensin-related peptides by cytosolic PPCE purified from porcine kidney. PPCE hydrolysis of the synthetic substrate Z-Gly-Pro-MCA (30.7 +/- 0.3 mumol . min-1 . mg-1) was competitively inhibited by saralasin, bradykinin, des(Arg9)bradykinin, [Leu8], des(Arg9)bradykinin and angiotensin II (IC50 = 0.5 to 7.0 microM). Qualitative TLC studies demonstrated that each peptide was degraded by hydrolysis on the carboxyl side of proline residues (positions 7 or 8). Quantitative HPLC studies established that peptide degradation was optimal at pH 8.2 to 8.7 and was inhibited by the specific PPCE inhibitor Z-Pro-prolinal (IC50 = 0.8 +/- 0.1 nM). Conversely, degradation was unaffected by inhibitors of aminopeptidases (amastatin), neutral endopeptidase (phosphoramidon), carboxypeptidase N (MERGETPA) or angiotensin I converting enzyme (captopril). Apparent Km values, obtained from Lineweaver-Burk analysis, were comparable for all kinin and angiotensin peptides (Km = 5.5 to 12.8 microM), whereas Vmax values ranged from 1.7 mumol . min-1 . mg-1 for angiotensin II to 0.44 mumol . min-1 . mg-1 for saralasin. These data are consistent with a role for PPCE in the degradation of kinins and angiotensin in vivo.
In vivo proteolysis of serum insulin-like growth factor (IGF) binding protein-3 results in increased availability of IGF to target cells.	IGF Binding Protein-3 (IGFBP-3), the major IGF carrier in the blood, undergoes limited proteolysis which reduces its affinity for IGFs, thus facilitating dissociation. The functional effects of this at the cellular level were studied by comparing two serum pools, one from healthy adults, one from women during late pregnancy when IGFBP-3 proteolysis is increased. Sera were mixed to yield identical IGF-I and IGF-II concentrations in the two pools. Western ligand and immunoblotting gave the characteristic IGFBP patterns for the two types of serum. Both pools dose-dependently stimulated DNA synthesis in cultured chick embryo fibroblasts. Stimulation by pregnancy serum was twice that by normal serum at 0.05-0.2% concentrations (P < 0.001). In the presence of excess monoclonal anti-IGF-I and -II antibodies, stimulation by both (0.1-0.2%) pools was 70-80% reduced and residual stimulation was similar. Addition of recombinant human (rh) IGFBP-3 dose-dependently depressed both pools' activity, more so for normal serum at 25 and 50 ng/ml, equally for each at 100 ng/ml. At the latter concentration, slight proteolysis of the rhIGFBP-3 was detectable in the presence of 0.2% pregnancy serum, but at 25 ng/ml, proteolysis was absent. These results suggest that IGFs are released more readily from pregnancy serum, accounting for the weaker inhibitory effect of low rhIGFBP-3 concentrations. For identical IGF concentrations, pregnancy serum's greater biological activity therefore reflects greater IGF availability to the cells. This study demonstrates the functional consequences at cellular level of serum IGFBP-3 proteolysis, underlining its significance in regulating serum IGF bioavailability.
Immunoelectron microscopy of RNA combined with nucleic acid cytochemistry in plant nucleoli.	The immunoelectron microscopy detection of RNA using anti-RNA monoclonal antibodies has been performed for the first time over different plant cells. The use of the methylation-acetylation (MA) method permits clear distinction among the nuclear and nucleolar compartments and can be combined with the immunogold approach. Cytochemical methods for nucleic acids were performed together with the immunoassays, providing additional data about the different composition of the various nucleolar components. Anti-RNA antibodies highly labeled the ribosome-rich areas of the cytoplasm and the nucleolus. The interchromatin region also is labeled. The labeling was intense in the granular component, lower in the dense fibrillar component, and very scarce in the fibrillar centers. The MA method made possible the statistical evaluation of the labeling density in the various nuclear compartments by permitting the clear assignment of the particles to precise nuclear structures.
Intergeneric coaggregation of oral Treponema spp. with Fusobacterium spp. and intrageneric coaggregation among Fusobacterium spp.	A total of 22 strains of Treponema spp. including members of all four named human oral species were tested for coaggregation with 7 strains of oral fusobacteria, 2 strains of nonoral fusobacteria, and 45 strains of other oral bacteria, which included actinobacilli, actinomyces, capnocytophagae, eubacteria, porphyromonads, prevotellae, selenomonads, streptococci, and veillonellae. None of the treponemes coaggregated with any of the latter 45 oral strains or with the two nonoral fusobacteria. All treponemes, eight Treponema denticola strains, eight T. socranskii strains, four oral pectinolytic treponemes, one T. pectinovorum strain, and one T. vincentii strain coaggregated with at least one strain of the fusobacteria tested as partners. The partners consisted of one strain of Fusobacterium periodonticum, five F. nucleatum strains including all four subspecies of F. nucleatum, and a strain of F. simiae obtained from the dental plaque of a monkey. In the more than 100 coaggregations observed, the fusobacterial partner was heat inactivated (85 degrees C for 30 min), while the treponemes were unaffected by the heat treatment. Furthermore, the fusobacteria were usually inactivated by proteinase K treatment, and the treponemes were not affected. Only the T. denticola coaggregations were inhibited by lactose and D-galactosamine. None were inhibited by any of 23 other different sugars or L-arginine. Intragenic coaggregations were seen among the subspecies of F. nucleatum and with F. periodonticum, and none were inhibited by any of the sugars tested or by L-arginine. No intrageneric coaggregations were observed among the treponemes. These data indicate that the human oral treponemes show a specificity for oral fusobacteria as coaggregation partners. Such cell-to cell contact may facilitate efficient metabolic communication and enhance the proliferation of each cell in the progressively more severe stages of periodontal disease.
Intron-exon organization and chromosomal localization of the human TIA-1 gene.	TIA-1 is a 40-kDa cytotoxic granule-associated RNA-binding protein (p40-TIA-1), the expression of which is restricted to cytolytic lymphocytes. The major granule-associated species is a 15-kDa protein (p15-TIA-1) that seems to be derived from the carboxyl terminus of p40-TIA-1. Although some evidence suggests that p15-TIA-1 is derived from p40-TIA-1 by proteolytic processing, it is also possible that each isoform is derived from discrete mRNA initiated from alternative promoters within the TIA-1 gene. To learn more about the relationship between p15-TIA-1 and p40-TIA-1, we have determined the complete intron-exon organization of the TIA-1 gene. The gene consists of 13 exons separated by 12 intervening sequences and spans greater than 46 kb of DNA located on chromosome 2, band p13. The transcription start site of the mRNA transcript encoding p40-TIA-1 was identified by primer extension and S1 mapping analysis. The putative promoter region preceding this transcription start site stimulated the expression of a reporter gene in transfected Jurkat and YT cells. Attempts to identify a second promoter capable of initiating an mRNA encoding p15-TIA-1 were unsuccessful, supporting the possibility that p15-TIA-1 can be derived from p40-TIA-1 proteolytically. Granule-associated serine proteases that have been implicated in cytolytic lymphocyte killing (granzyme A and granzyme B) were unable to cleave TIA-1, suggesting that processing may occur before TIA-1 enters the cytotoxic granule.
Antagonist conformations with the beta(2)-adrenergic receptor ligand binding pocket.	The interactions between beta-adrenergic receptor (beta AR) antagonists and the beta(2)AR were studied with the use of photoaffinity labels. A proteolytic map of the receptor was made and confirmed through amino-terminal amino acid sequencing by locating sites of derivatization. [125I]Iodoazidothiophenylalprenolol (IAPTA) is a photoaffinity derivative of the beta AR antagonist alprenolol with a photoactivatable group on the aryloxy end of the molecule. IAPTA exclusively derivatizes a peptide consisting of transmembrane domains (TMs) 6 and 7 of the hamster lung beta(2)AR, supporting the contention that TMs 6 and 7 interact with the aryloxy portion of the beta AR antagonist pharmacophore. The beta AR antagonist photoaffinity labels [125I]iodoazidobenzylpindolol (IABP), [125I]iodoazidophenyl CGP-12177A (IAPCGP), and [125I]iodocyanopindololdiazarene (ICYPdz) are similar in that their photoactive moieties are attached to the amino end of the antagonist pharmacophore. IABP derivatized TMs 5-7 and a peptide containing TM 1 to approximately equal extents. IAPCGP derivatized Tms 6 and 7 >> TM 5 = TM 4 = TMs 2 and 3 = TM 1. ICYPdz derivatized TM 1 >> TMs 6 and 7 > Tm 4. We conclude that the aryloxy end of the beta AR antagonist pharmacophore is highly constrained within TMs 6 and 7, whereas the amino terminus is much less constrained and able to assume multiple conformations. Molecular dynamics simulations predict that IABP, IAPCGP, and ICYPdz favor a folded conformation, with both ends close together. Derivatization of TMs 6 and 7 by IABP, IAPCGP, and ICYPdz suggests the folded conformation of these compounds in the ligand binding pocket.
Molecular basis of phenotypic variability in sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.	We sequenced the prion protein gene and studied the biochemical characteristics and the intracerebral distribution of protease-resistant prion protein with Western blot and immunohistochemistry in 19 cases of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. We identified four groups of subjects defined by the genotype at codon 129 of the prion protein gene, the site of a common methionine/valine polymorphism, and two types of protease-resistant prion proteins that differed in size and glycosylation. The four Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease groups showed distinct clinicopathological features that corresponded to previously described variants. The typical Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease phenotype or myoclonic variant and the Heidenhain variant were linked to methionine homozygosity at codon 129 and to "type 1" protease-resistant prion protein. The atypical and rarer variants such as that with dementia of long duration, the ataxic variant, and the variant with kuru plaques were linked to different genotypes at codon 129 and shared the "type 2" protease-resistant prion protein. Our data indicate that the sporadic form of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease comprises a limited number of variants. The methionine/valine polymorphism at codon 129 of the prion protein gene and two types of protease-resistant prion proteins are the major determinants of these variants. These findings suggest the existence of prion strains in humans and provide the molecular basis for a novel classification of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
Inhibition of neutrophil-endothelial cell adhension by a neutrophil product, cathepsin G.	In the present study we investigated the modulation of the polymorphonuclear neutrophil (PMN)-endothelial cell adhesion process by the two main proteinases released from activated PMN during their adhesion to endothelium. Our results showed that, in contrast with elastase, cathepsin G was a powerful inhibitor of PAIN adhesion to interleukin-1 (IL-1)-treated human umbilical vein endothelial cells. This inhibitory effect was linked to the enzymatic activity of the proteinase and was selectively directed against PMN. Because the viability and the reactivity of PMN were not modified by cathepsin G, we looked for a possible effect on adhesion molecules. L-selectin was not cleaved by cathepsin G, whereas it was by chymotrypsin, a closely related proteinase. Cathepsin G blocked PMN adhesion to activated endothelial cells, but also to serum- or fibrinogen-coated plates, three adhesion processes mediated by CD11b/CD18. However, by FACScan analysis or by immunoprecipitation, we failed to find evidence of modifications of CD11b/CD18 expression. Although the precise molecular target(s) of cathepsin G remain(s) to be defined, these data indicate that this proteinase, which is known as an inflammatory mediator, can also be considered as a potential down-regulator of adhesion reactions involved in the inflammatory process.
Membrane receptor for odour-binding proteins.	Specific binding of 125I-labelled bovine odour-binding protein (OBP) to isolated membranes from nasal mucosa was demonstrated. The interaction reached equilibrium within 30 min at 37 degrees C and was reversible. A Scatchard analysis of the equilibrium binding revealed a single population of binding sites, with the calculated equilibrium dissociation constant and maximum number of binding sites being 2.25 +/- 0.5 microM and 18.5 +/- 2 pmol/mg of membrane protein respectively (n = 2). Receptor activity was decreased on digestion by trypsin, proteinase K or endoglycosidase H, was heat labile and was sensitive to thiol-group-specific reagents. With the exception of rat and mouse major urinary proteins, which exhibit a high degree of structural similarity with OBP and bind similar ligands, other members of the lipocalin family, such as retinol-binding protein and beta-lactoglobulin, failed to inhibit the binding of 125I-labelled OBP to its receptor. The receptor seems not to be restricted to olfactory tissues, as it was detected in a variety of other tissues. This suggests that OBP is unlikely to play a role only in olfactory signal transduction. It might have a much broader role within the body; possibilities include a role in detoxification or signalling.
Human gamma/delta T-cell response to Listeria monocytogenes protein components in vitro.	Listeria monocytogenes is a facultative intracellular pathogen that replicates inside mononuclear phagocytes and induces specific cellular immunity. Listeriosis encompasses many clinical syndromes and meningitis is the most frequent clinical manifestation. Human alpha/beta and gamma/delta T cells have been shown to respond to L. monocytogenes antigens and to play an important role in resistance against listerial infection. We investigated the nature of listerial ligands and the influence of the major virulence factor, listeriolysin (hly), on the stimulation of human gamma/delta T cells from healthy individuals. We found that a listerial somatic protein ligand, which is sensitive to proteinase treatment, stimulated gamma/delta T cells in vitro; the majority of Listeria-responsive gamma/delta T cells expressed V gamma 9V delta 2 T-cell receptor chains and human leucocyte antigen-DR molecules; gamma/delta T-cell responses to hly+ and hly- Listeria strains were comparable; L. monocytogenes strains of different virulence stimulated gamma/delta T cells equally. Thus, protein components of L. monocytogenes unrelated to virulence activate human gamma/delta T cells in vitro.
Bcl-2-mediated resistance to apoptosis is associated with glutathione-induced inhibition of AP24 activation of nuclear DNA fragmentation.	Studies on the mechanism of apoptosis in this laboratory support a model in which signal transduction involving caspase 3 leads to activation of a serine protease called Mr 24,000 apoptotic protease (AP24), which then induces internucleosomal DNA fragmentation in the nucleus. This study examined the effect of Bcl-2 overexpression on activation of AP24 and the induction of DNA fragmentation by AP24 in isolated nuclei. It was demonstrated that overexpression of Bcl-2 in either HL-60 or PW leukemia cell lines suppressed activation of AP24 induced by either tumor necrosis factor or UV light and protected cells from apoptosis. Furthermore, nuclei isolated from Bcl-2-overexpressing cells were relatively resistant to internucleosomal DNA fragmentation induced by AP24 isolated from apoptotic cells. Bcl-2-overexpressing cells that were nutritionally depleted of glutathione (GSH) became sensitive to tumor necrosis factor- or UV light-induced activation of AP24 and underwent apoptotic cell death. Moreover, nuclei isolated from Bcl-2-overexpressing cells that were depleted of GSH became sensitive to AP24-induced DNA fragmentation. The addition of exogenous GSH blocked the proteolytic activity of AP24, as well as its ability to induce DNA fragmentation in normal isolated nuclei. These results indicate that Bcl-2 can attenuate at least two events in the AP24 apoptotic pathway: activation of AP24 and induction of DNA fragmentation by activated AP24. Furthermore, agents that deplete intracellular levels of GSH may have therapeutic use in the sensitization of Bcl-2-overexpressing cancer cells to apoptotic cell death.
