Modulation of perforin, granzyme A, and granzyme B in murine natural killer (NK), IL2 stimulated NK, and lymphokine-activated killer cells by alcohol consumption.	Alcohol consumption in mice suppresses the cytolytic activity of natural killer (NK) and lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells through unknown mechanisms. Herein, we found that alcohol consumption decreased target cell-induced release of granzyme A activity in freshly isolated splenic NK cells, in NK cells stimulated for 18 h with 1000 IU/ml of interleukin 2, and in LAK cells. The total activity and protein expression of granzymes A and B also were lower in these cells than in cells isolated from water-drinking mice. Interleukin 2 increased granzyme A protein expression independent of alcohol consumption; however, this increase was associated with decreased enzyme activity. In contrast, granzyme B protein expression and enzymatic activity increased in response to interleukin 2. Perforin activity and protein expression were reduced in LAK cells generated from alcohol-consuming mice. We conclude that the mechanism underlying the suppression of NK and LAK cytolytic activity by alcohol consumption involves the collective reduction of target-induced release, activity, and expression of perforin and granular proteases.
Mast cell chymase and tryptase during tissue turnover: analysis on in vitro mitogenesis of fibroblasts and keratinocytes and alterations in cutaneous scars.	In order to shed further light on the potential role of mast cells during tissue turnover, we have investigated the number of mast cells containing only tryptase and those storing both tryptase and chymase by enzyme histochemistry in normal versus healing skin. Furthermore, we have studied the in vitro effect of these enzymes on the mitogenesis of subconfluent quiescent fibroblast and HaCaT keratinocyte cultures, using flowcytometric DNA analysis. Chymase-containing mast cell numbers were markedly decreased in scars (P<0.001), whereas the overall number of tryptase-containing mast cells was not decreased, although these cells were smaller and stained more faintly in scars. Chymase (5 to 300 mU/ml) induced a marked, dose-dependent in vitro mitogenic response in 3T3 fibroblasts, whereas the effects of tryptase, at up to 60 nM, were only moderate, compared to the known fibroblast mitogens EGF, TGF-alpha, alpha-thrombin and trypsin at optimal concentrations. Coincubation of either protease with EGF or alpha-thrombin had additive effects. In contrast to fibroblasts, keratinocytes showed only minor mitogenic responses to tryptase and chymase, also in comparison to other known mitogenic stimuli, and responses to EGF and alpha-thrombin were inhibited on costimulation of cells with the proteases. These findings document for the first time a potential role of mast cell chymase in connective tissue repair, with tryptase being less active on fibroblasts, and with inhibitory effects of both mast cell proteases on keratinocytes.
Calcium regulation in the human myocardium affected by dilated cardiomyopathy: a structural basis for impaired Ca2+-sensitivity.	Calcium regulation in the human heart is impaired during idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (IDC). Here, we analyze the structural basis for impairment in the regulatory mechanism. Regulation of contractility was monitored by MgATPase and Ca2+-binding assays as a function of calcium. Myofibrillar proteolysis and expression of troponin T isoforms were established by gel electrophoresis and by Western blots. Myofibrillar ATPase assays in low salt however, revealed a drastic lowering of calcium sensitivity in IDC myofibrils as indicated by reductions in both activation by high calcium and in EGTA-mediated inhibition of MgATPase. Structural changes in myofilament proteins were found in most IDC hearts, specifically proteolysis of myosin light chain 2 (LC2), troponin T and I (TnT and TnI), and sometimes a large isoform shift in TnT. IDC did not induce mutations in LC2 and troponin C (TnC), as established by cDNA sequence data from IDC cases, thus, calcium binding to IDC myofibrils was unaffected. Reassociation of IDC myofibrils with native LC2 raised MgATPase activation at high Ca2+ to control levels, while repletion with intact, canine TnI/TnT restored inhibition at low Ca2+. A model, identifying possible steps in the steric blocking mechanism of regulation, is proposed to explain IDC-induced changes in Ca2+-regulation. Moreover, shifts in TnT isoforms may imply either a genetic or a compensatory factor in the development and pathogenesis of some forms of IDC.
Delta psi stimulates membrane translocation of the C-terminal part of a signal sequence.	For several proteins in Escherichia coli it has been shown that the protonmotive force (pmf) dependence of translocation can be varied with the signal sequence composition, suggesting an effect of the pmf on the signal sequence. To test this possibility, we analyzed the effect of the membrane potential on translocation of the signal sequence. For this purpose, a precursor peptide was used (SP+7), corresponding to the signal sequence of PhoE with the first seven amino acids of the mature part that can be processed by purified leader peptidase. Translocation was studied in pure lipid vesicles containing leader peptidase, with its active site inside the vesicles. In the presence of a positive inside Delta psi, the amount of processing of SP+7 was significantly higher than without a Delta psi, indicating that the translocation of the cleavage region is stimulated by Delta psi. Replacement of the helix-breaking glycine residue at position -10 in the signal sequence for a leucine abolished the effect of Delta psi on the translocation of the cleavage region. It is concluded that Delta psi directly acts on the wild type signal sequence by stimulating the translocation of its C terminus. We propose that Delta psi acts on the signal sequence by stretching it into a transmembrane orientation.
Amino acid sequence and some properties of phytolacain R, a cysteine protease from full-growth fruits of pokeweed, Phytolacca americana.	A cysteine protease, phytolacain R from full-growth greenish fruits of pokeweed, Phytolacca americana L, was purified to electrophoretic homogeneity by a simple purification procedure employing CM-Sepharose ion-exchange chromatography. The enzyme was present in low content in the young fruits about 50 d after flowering but gradually accumulated in growing fruits. Its molecular mass was estimated to be ca. 23 kDa by SDS-PAGE, and its sugar content was zero. Its amino acid sequence was established by automated sequence analysis of the peptides obtained by cleavage with Achromobacter protease I, chymotrypsin, trypsin, and cyanogen bromide. The enzyme is composed of 218 amino acid residues, of which it shares 110 residues (50%) with papain, 104 (47%) with actinidain, and 87 (40%) with stem bromelain. The amino acid residues forming the substrate-binding the S2 pocket of papain, Tyr61, Tyr67, Pro68, Trp69, Val133, and Phe207, were predicted to be replaced by Gly, Trp, Met, His, Ala, and Met in phytolacain R, respectively. As a consequence of these substitutions, the S2 pocket is expected to be less hydrophobic in phytolacain R than in papain.
Effects of prolyl endopeptidase inhibitors and neuropeptides on delayed neuronal death in rats.	We investigated the effects of the prolyl endopeptidase inhibitors 1-[1-(Benzyloxycarbonyl)-L-prolyl]prolinal (Z-Pro-Prolinal) and N-benzyloxycarbonyl-thioprolyl-thioprolinal-dimethylaceta l (ZTTA) on delayed neuronal death induced by four-vessel-occlusion transient ischemia in rats. We also examined the effects of [pGlu4, Cyt6, ArgS]vasopressin (vasopressin-(4-9)) and thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) on the delayed neuronal death. Furthermore, we investigated the role of vasopressin receptors in the effects of vasopressin and prolyl endopeptidase inhibitors. Z-Pro-Prolinal, vasopressin-(4-9) and TRH protected pyramidal cells in the CA1 subfield of the rat hippocampus from delayed neuronal death after 10-min ischemia. The effect of vasopressin-(4-9) was abolished by vasopressin receptor antagonists. The effect of Z-Pro-Prolinal was also abrogated by the antagonists. These results suggest that the neuroprotective effect of prolyl endopeptidase inhibitors is mediated by neuropeptides such as [Arg8]vasopressin and TRH, and indicate the involvement of vasopressin receptors in the neuroprotective effect of vasopressin-(4-9) and prolyl endopeptidase inhibitors.
A cytotoxic phenotype does not predict clinical outcome in anaplastic large cell lymphomas.	To investigate whether anaplastic large cell lymphomas (ALCL) expressing cytotoxic proteins have a relatively worse clinical outcome compared with ALCL lacking a cytotoxic phenotype.
Metabolic flux analysis for serine alkaline protease fermentation by Bacillus licheniformis in a defined medium: effects of the oxygen transfer rate.	The metabolic fluxes through the central carbon pathways in the bioprocess for serine alkaline protease (SAP) production by Bacillus licheniformis were calculated by the metabolic flux-based stoichiometric model based on the proposed metabolic network that contains 102 metabolites and 133 reaction fluxes using the time profiles of citrate, dry cell, organic acids, amino acids, and SAP as the constraints. The model was solved by minimizing the SAP accumulation rate in the cell. The effects of the oxygen-transfer rate (OTR) on the metabolic fluxes were investigated in a defined medium where citrate was used as the sole carbon source. The central pathways were active for the growth and the SAP synthesis in all the periods of the bioprocess at low (LOT), medium (MOT), and high (HOT) oxygen-transfer conditions. The flux partitioning in the TCA cycle at alpha-ketoglutarate towards glutamate group and at oxalacetate (OA) toward aspartic acid group amino acids were dependent on the OTR. The flux of the anaplerotic reaction that connects the TCA cycle either from malate or OA to the gluconeogenesis pathway via the main branch point pyruvate (Pyr) was also influenced by the OTR. With the decrease in the OTR, the intracellular flux values after glycerate 3-phosphate (PG3) in the gluconeogenesis pathway and the specific growth rate decreased. The total ATP-generation rate increased with the increase in OTR. The pathway towards the aspartic acid family amino acids which is important for sporulation that precedes the SAP synthesis were all active throughout the bioprocess. Metabolic flux analysis results at LOT, MOT, and HOT conditions encourage the design of an oxygen-transfer strategy in the bioreactor; moreover, asparagine synthetase or aspartate kinase could be the potential metabolic engineering sites due to the low value of the flux from the branch point aspartate toward asparagine.
Probing the modelled structure of wheatwin1 by controlled proteolysis and sequence analysis of unfractionated digestion mixtures.	We set up a method to get rapid information on the three-dimensional structure of peptide and proteins of known sequence. Both native and alkylated polypeptide is hydrolyzed with a number of proteases at different digestion times and the resulting mixtures are compared by HPLC analysis to establish the differences in the hydrolysis pathways of the folded and unfolded molecule. Then, the unfractionated digestion mixtures of the native polypeptide are submitted to automatic sequence analysis to identify the hydrolysis sites. The sequence of each fragment present in the mixtures is reconstructed and its amount determined by quantitative data of the sequence analyses. We used this approach to determine the amino acid surface accessibility of wheatwin1, a pathogenesis-related protein from wheat, and constructed a predictive three-dimensional model based on the knowledge of the tertiary structure of barwin, a highly homologous protein from barley. The procedure allowed us to quickly identify and quantify the hydrolysis at the susceptible bonds which could be classified as exposed, partially hidden, or inaccessible. The results were useful to evidentiate and discuss concordances and differences between experimental and model predicted accessibilities of amino acid residues. Proteins 1999;36:192-204.
Limited proteolysis of the IGF binding protein-2 (IGFBP-2) by a specific serine protease activity in early breast milk.	IGF in milk possibly promote maturation of the gastrointestinal tract in newborns. We studied the composition of milk samples derived from 99 healthy women at regular intervals during a period beginning 3 d and ending 6 mo after birth. The concentrations measured by RIA on d 3 were 10.7+/-0.4 ng/mL for IGF-II, 1.9+/-0.1 ng/mL for IGF-I, 100+/-5 ng/mL for IGF binding protein-3 (IGFBP-3), and 2163+/-108 ng/mL for IGFBP-2. All factor concentrations decreased by up to 70% in the course of the 6 mo. The most striking finding was an IGFBP-2-specific protease activity. Protease assays performed by incubation of 125I-IGFBP-2 with milk yielded fragments of 14, 16, 23, and 25 kD. 125I-IGFBP-3 was not cleaved. Proteolysis occurred only in milk from mothers until 4 wk postpartum and could be visualized by immunoblots. Since the affinity of the fragments to 125I-IGF-II was low, they were not demonstrable by ligand blot. Inhibitor studies and pH optimizing classified the IGFBP-2 protease as an Me2(+)-dependent serine protease with a pH optimum of 7 to 8. The proteolytic activity of further milk proteins, known as IGFBP proteases, was analyzed. Epidermal growth factor receptor peptide and prostate-specific antigen did not cleave IGFBP-2, although the protease activity correlated (r = 0.84, p < 0.00003) with the prostate-specific antigen concentration in milk. The y-nerve growth factor cleaved 125I-IGFBP-2, but in a completely different manner than the milk protease. In conclusion, the IGFBP-2 protease in milk is most probably a kallikrein. The specific proteolysis of IGF/IGFBP-2 complexes may increase the biologic availability of IGF in early milk. This mechanism may promote growth of the maternal breast epithelium and maturation of the gastrointestinal tract of newborns.
Myxoma virus Serp2 is a weak inhibitor of granzyme B and interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme in vitro and unlike CrmA cannot block apoptosis in cowpox virus-infected cells.	The Serp2 protein encoded by the leporipoxvirus myxoma virus is essential for full virulence (F. Messud-Petit, J. Gelfi, M. Delverdier, M. F. Amardeilh, R. Py, G. Sutter, and S. Bertagnoli, J. Virol. 72:7830-7839, 1998) and, like crmA of cowpox virus (CPV), is reported to inhibit the interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme (ICE, caspase-1) (F. Petit, S. Bertagnoli, J. Gelfi, F. Fassy, C. Boucraut-Baralon, and A. Milon, J. Virol. 70:5860-5866, 1996). Serp2 and CrmA both contain Asp at the P1 position within the serpin reactive site loop and yet are only 35% identical overall. Serp2 protein was cleaved by ICE but, unlike CrmA, did not form a stable complex with ICE that was detectable by native gel electrophoresis. Attempts to covalently cross-link ICE-serpin inhibitory complexes were successful with CrmA, but no complex between ICE and Serp2 was visible after cross-linking. Purified His10-tagged Serp2 protein was a relatively poor inhibitor of ICE, with a Ki of 80 nM compared to 4 pM for CrmA. Serp2 protein resembled CrmA in that a stable complex with the serine proteinase granzyme B was detectable after sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. However, Serp2 was less effective at inhibiting granzyme B activity (Ki = 420 nM) than CrmA (Ki = 100 nM). Finally, Serp2 was tested for the ability to replace CrmA and inhibit apoptosis in LLC-PK1 cells infected with a CPV recombinant deleted for CrmA but expressing Serp2. Unlike wild-type-CPV-infected cells, apoptosis was readily observed in cells infected with the recombinant virus, as indicated by the induction of both nuclear fragmentation and caspase-mediated cleavage of DEVD-AMC [acetyl-Asp-Glu-Val-Asp-(amino-4-methyl coumarin)]. These results indicate that Serp2 is unable to functionally substitute for CrmA within the context of CPV and that the inhibition spectra for Serp2 and CrmA are distinct.
Segmental allergen challenge induces plasma protein leakage into the airways of asthmatic subjects at 4 hours but not at 5 minutes after challenge.	We have investigated whether increased plasma protein leakage is present early after segmental allergen challenge in allergic asthma. Seven asthmatic subjects with mild allergy (AA group) and 5 non-asthmatic subjects with allergy (ANA group) were challenged with allergen doses based on similar early skin reactions; 5 healthy control subjects without allergy (C group) were challenged with the highest dose applied in the subjects with allergy. Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid was obtained before, at 5 minutes after, and at 4 hours after challenge from different segments. Levels of albumin (Alb) and alpha2-macroglobulin (A2M) were measured in BAL fluid and serum. In addition, we calculated the relative coefficient of excretion as follows: RCE = ((A2M in BAL fluid)/(A2M in serum))/((Alb in BAL fluid)/(Alb in serum)). Also, levels of tryptase as a marker of mast cell activation and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), a possible inducer of plasma protein leakage, were determined. At 5 minutes after challenge, in none of the groups was a significant change found in the parameters for protein leakage. Levels of tryptase were increased in the subjects with allergy at 5 minutes after challenge only (P = .004). At 4 hours after challenge, levels of Alb (P = .03) and A2M (P = .04) and the RCE (P = .04) were increased in the AA group only. At 4 hours, levels of TNF-alpha were increased, with no significant differences among the three groups. In the asthmatic subjects with allergy, levels of TNF-alpha correlated with levels of Alb (r = 0.85, P = .02). In conclusion, at 4 hours after segmental allergen challenge, plasma protein leakage was increased in the asthmatic subjects only. The increase in levels of TNF-alpha in all groups indicates that the presence of TNF-alpha alone was not sufficient to cause plasma protein leakage within 4 hours after allergen challenge. Our results confirm the concept that plasma exudation after allergen exposure is a pathophysiologic event associated with asthma.
A high throughput assay of the hepatitis C virus nonstructural protein 3 serine proteinase.	A simple assay was developed based on intramolecular fluorescence resonance energy transfer for detection of the activity of hepatitis C virus (HCV) serine proteinase. Two quenched-fluorogenic substrates, (7-methoxycoumarin-4-yl)acetyl (Mca) Asp-Asp-Ile-Val-Pro-Cys-Ser-Met-Ser-(2,4-dinitrophenyl, Dnp) Lys (Mca-Asp-Asp-Ile-Val-Pro-Cys-Ser-Met-Ser-Lys[Dnp], QF-1) and Mca-Asp-Asp-Ile-Val-Pro-Cys-Ser-Met-Lys(Dnp)-Arg-Arg (QF-2), which derived from the NS5A/5B junction of the HCV polyprotein, were designed. Kinetic studies revealed that QF-1 and QF-2 had high affinity for a recombinant enzyme which is a fusion protein of maltose binding protein and almost entire nonstructural protein (MBP-NS3), with Km values comparable to that of longer substrate based on the same cleavage site. QF-1 and QF-2 were cleaved by MBP-NS3 efficiently with kcat values of 7.5 and 4.2 min(-1), respectively. QF-2 was also found to be a good substrate of deltaNS3 which contained serine proteinase part of NS3 with kcat value of 4.3 min(-1). The cleavage reaction is detected continuously by the elevation of the fluorescence due to release from quenching. The fluorescence of the substrates increases in proportion to progress of the cleavage reaction under the standard conditions. This method was applied for screening of HCV serine protease inhibitors using a fluorescence multiwell plate reader. A group of natural occurring products, flavonoids, was subjected to be screened. Two flavonoids out of 25 were found to inhibit the enzyme moderately at a concentration of 100 microM. The data agreed with those obtained by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). This method is suited to sensitive quantitation of the enzyme reaction as well as the high throughput analysis of the inhibitors.
Relative localization of angiotensin-converting enzyme, chymase and angiotensin II in human coronary atherosclerotic lesions.	Studies using cell cultures and animal models have indicated an important role for angiotensin II in atherosclerosis. In humans, at least two major enzymes are involved in the conversion of angiotensin I to angiotensin II: so-called angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) and chymase. Enhanced activation of chymase in atherosclerotic tissue homogenates has been reported in animal models, but its contribution to the generation of angiotensin II has not been studied.
Mast cells in rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis.	The role of mast cells (MC) in tubulointerstitial damage in glomerulonephritis (GN) is not fully understood. The distribution of MC was compared in renal biopsies from 50 patients with different stages of rapidly progressive GN (RPGN) and in 20 control samples. The immunoreactivity of renal MC with anti-tryptase and anti-chymase antibodies was studied. Interstitial myofibroblasts were stained with anti-alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA) antibody, and inflammatory cells were identified by anti-CD3, -CD20, and -CD68 monoclonal antibodies. Positively stained cells were counted, and the relative interstitial and fractional areas of anti-alpha-SMA-stained cells were measured. MC were rarely found in control samples. In contrast, samples showing crescentic GN contained numerous tryptase-positive MC (MC(T)) (43.7+/-4.65 versus 7.14+/-1.3/mm2) and fewer tryptase- and chymase-positive MC (MC(TC)) (13.8+/-1.86 versus 1.89+/-0.86/mm2) in the renal interstitium but never in the glomerulus. Double immunostaining demonstrated the presence of both phenotypes of MC. Accumulation of MC was significantly correlated with the numbers of T lymphocytes (MC(T), r = 0.67) and interstitial macrophages (MC(T), r = 0.455). There was also a significant correlation between the number of MC(T) and the relative interstitial area. The number of MC(TC) was well correlated with the fractional area of alpha-SMA-positive interstitium (r = 0.749) and the percentage of the interstitial fibrotic area (r = 0.598). There was also a significant negative correlation between interstitial MC(TC) accumulation and creatinine clearance (r = 0.661). The density of MC(TC) was higher (1.4-fold) in advanced forms of GN associated with fibrocellular crescents and interstitial fibrosis. These results show the potential involvement of MC in the fibroproliferative process in the renal interstitium of patients with RPGN. The results indicate that these cells constitute part of the overall inflammatory cell accumulation in RPGN.
In vivo and in vitro evidence of blood-brain barrier transport of a novel cationic arginine-vasopressin fragment 4-9 analog.	The blood-brain barrier (BBB) transport and metabolism of a novel arginine-vasopressin fragment 4-9 [AVP(4-9), isoelectric point; (pI) = 9.2] analog, that is, cationic AVP(4-9) (C-AVP(4-9), PI = 9.8), were examined in vivo and in vitro. At 45 min after an i.v. administration to mice, the cerebrum-to-plasma concentration ratios of (35)S-labeled AVP(4-9) and (125)I-labeled C-AVP(4-9) were 0.103 and 0.330 ml/g cerebrum, respectively, and the BBB permeation clearances were 1.47 x 10(-4) and 3.10 x 10(-4) ml/min/g cerebrum, respectively. In the in vitro study using mouse brain capillary endothelial cells immortalized by SV40 infection (MBEC4), the acid-resistant binding values of (35)S-labeled AVP(4-9) and (125)I-labeled C-AVP(4-9) to MBEC4 at 120 min were 0.93 and 1.95 microliter/mg protein (as the cell/medium ratios), respectively. (35)S-labeled AVP(4-9) showed two-phase saturable acid-resistant binding, and its half-saturation constants (K(D)) were 3.8 nM (high affinity) and 45.7 microM (low affinity). (125)I-labeled C-AVP(4-9) showed single-phase saturable acid-resistant binding, with a K(D) value of 16.4 microM. The acid-resistant binding of (125)I-labeled C-AVP(4-9) was significantly dependent on temperature and medium osmolarity. The acid-resistant binding of (125)I-labeled C-AVP(4-9) was inhibited by dancylcadaverine, phenylarsine oxide (endocytosis inhibitors), 2,4-dinitrophenol (a metabolic inhibitor), and AVP(4-9), poly(L-lysine), and protamine (cationic substances), but not by poly(L-glutamic acid) (an anionic peptide) and the V(1) and V(2) vasopressin receptor antagonists. In addition, the conversion of C-AVP(4-9) to AVP(4-9) in the cerebral homogenate was confirmed by HPLC and mass spectrometry. The present results demonstrate that C-AVP(4-9) is transported through the BBB more effectively than AVP(4-9), via absorptive-mediated endocytosis, and that C-AVP(4-9) is converted to the neuroactive parent peptide, AVP(4-9), in the cerebrum.
Potent selective nonpeptidic inhibitors of human lung tryptase.	Human lung tryptase, a homotetrameric serine protease unique to mast cell secretory granules, has been implicated in the pathogenesis of asthma. A hypothesis that tethered symmetrical inhibitors might bridge two adjacent active sites was explored via a rationally designed series of bisbenzamidines. These compounds demonstrated a remarkable distanced-defined structure-activity relationship against human tryptase with one series possessing subnanomolar potencies. Additional evidence supporting the concept of active-site bridging is also presented.
Dipeptidyl peptidase I is required for the processing and activation of granzymes A and B in vivo.	Dipeptidyl peptidase I (DPPI) is a lysosomal cysteine protease that has been implicated in the processing of granzymes, which are neutral serine proteases exclusively expressed in the granules of activated cytotoxic lymphocytes. In this report, we show that cytotoxic lymphocytes derived from DPPI-/- mice contain normal amounts of granzymes A and B, but these molecules retain their prodipeptide domains and are inactive. Cytotoxic assays with DPPI-/- effector cells reveal severe defects in the induction of target cell apoptosis (as measured by [(125)I]UdR release) at both early and late time points; this defect is comparable to that detected in perforin-/- or granzyme A-/- x B-/- cytotoxic lymphocytes. DPPI therefore plays an essential role in the in vivo processing and activation of granzymes A and B, which are required for cytotoxic lymphocyte granule-mediated apoptosis.
Semenogelin I: a coagulum forming, multifunctional seminal vesicle protein.	Human seminal plasma spontaneously coagulates after ejaculation. The major component of this coagulum is semenogelin 1, a 52-kDa protein expressed exclusively in the seminal vesicles. Recently, a sperm motility inhibitor has been found to be identical to semenogelin I, suggesting that it may also be a physiological sperm motility inhibitor. The protein is rapidly cleaved after ejaculation by the chymotrypsin-like prostatic protease prostate-specific antigen, resulting in liquefaction of the semen coagulum and the progressive release of motile spermatozoa. Some of the cleavage products of Sg I may also have various biological functions. While the semenogelin I protein is unique to human and higher primates, it has recently been shown to belong to a gene family having a similar gene structure but encoding widely differing proteins. The recently elucidated characteristics of the semenogelin I gene as well as the biochemical and functional properties of the encoded protein are reviewed, and an attempt is made to integrate the various findings into a model for semen coagulation, sperm immobilization and potential other functions.
Local lung responses following local lung challenge with recombinant lungworm antigen in systemically sensitized sheep.	Chronic mast cell-mediated inflammation may contribute significantly towards the extensive tissue remodelling that is a feature of lungworm infection in ruminants. Understanding the factors that control tissue remodelling is a necessary step toward effective management and treatment of conditions that feature such pathology.
Effect of loratadine in children with allergic rhinitis]	The authors examined 25 children with allergic rhinitis, who were sensitive to grass, weed and tree pollens. During the allergic season nasal lavage was performed then repeated after 4 weeks of loratadine treatment. Tryptase, IL-5, ECP, TNF-alpha and RANTES levels were measured from the nasal lavage fluid. Tryptase, IL-5, and ECP levels were decreased significantly while the decrease of RANTES and TNF-alpha levels was not significant. The authors emphasize that loratadine is an effective anti-inflammatory drug which affects the early and late phase of immediate hypersensitivity. In the moderate cases loratadine is enough to relieve the symptoms, while in the severe forms anti-allergic eye drops and nasal antihistamine or steroid spray has to be added.
Mesangial IgA2 deposits and lectin pathway-mediated complement activation in IgA glomerulonephritis.	Three pathways are recognized in complement activation. The aim of our study is to elucidate immunohistologically which complement pathway is associated with complement activation in immunoglobulin A (IgA) glomerulonephritis (GN) and which IgA subclass is related to complement activation. Immunohistological staining was performed on renal biopsy specimens obtained from 36 patients with IgA GN, 10 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), and 16 patients with other GNs using polyclonal antibodies of IgG, IgA, IgM, C1q, C3c, and C4 and monoclonal antibodies of IgA1, IgA2, mannose-binding lectin (MBL), and MBL-associated serine protease-1 (MASP-1). Mesangial deposits of both IgA1 and IgA2 were found in 19 of 36 patients with IgA GN. Mesangial deposits of C3c, C4, MBL, and MASP-1 also were detected in these 19 patients, and IgA2, MBL, and MASP-1 deposits were colocalized in the mesangium in these patients. The remaining 17 patients showed mesangial deposits of IgA1 alone. Twelve of these 17 patients showed mesangial deposits of C3c without C4, MBL, or MASP-1. No deposition of C1q was evident in patients with IgA GN. Three of 10 patients with SLE showed glomerular deposition of MBL and MASP-1 without glomerular deposition of IgA2. None of the patients with other GNs showed glomerular deposition of IgA1, IgA2, MBL, or MASP-1. There was no correlation in clinical or pathological indicators between IgA2-positive and IgA2-negative patients with IgA GN. In conclusion, alternative pathway-involved complement activation is associated with mesangial deposits of IgA1 alone in patients with IgA GN. In those with mesangial deposits of both IgA1 and IgA2, both the alternative and lectin pathways are involved in complement activation. We first report that mesangial deposits of IgA2 may activate the lectin pathway in patients with IgA GN.
The Hantaan virus glycoprotein precursor is cleaved at the conserved pentapeptide WAASA.	The medium segment of the tripartite negative-stranded RNA genome of hantaviruses encodes for the predicted glycoprotein precursor GPC. We have demonstrated here the expression of the glycoprotein precursor of Hantaan virus following transfection of mammalian cells. The cleavage of the precursor into the glycoproteins G1 and G2 followed the rules for signal peptides and seemed to occur directly at the pentapeptide motif "WAASA." Our data indicate that the signal peptidase complex is responsible for the proteolytic processing of the precursor GPC of Hantaan virus. The comparison of this region of the glycoprotein precursor, including the absolutely conserved WAASA motif, suggests a similar cleavage event for all hantavirus glycoproteins.
Protease inhibitors, the responsible components for the serum-dependent enhancement of Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans leukotoxicity.	Serum enhances the leukotoxic activity of Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans against human polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNL) by a mechanism that still is unknown. Early attempts to identify the serum components responsible for this enhancement gave no conclusive results, but indicated that the lipoprotein-containing fraction of the serum was involved in the interaction. This study aimed to clarify the role of serum lipoproteins in the leukotoxin interaction, and to identify other serum components involved. The main hypothesis examined was that the leukotoxicity enhancement might depend on serum protease inhibitors that block proteolytic cleavage of leukotoxin by enzymes released from the leukocytes. PMNL were isolated from human peripheral blood and incubated with purified leukotoxin in the presence of serum or purified serum components or lipoprotein-deficient serum. Leukotoxin was also incubated with purified elastase and cathepsin G or with enzyme mixtures from degranulated PMNL. The leukotoxic activity in these mixtures was determined as the extracellular release of lactate dehydrogenase from PMNL. Cleavage of the toxin was showed by gel electrophoresis and Western blot. Morphological changes in PMNL from the above mixtures were examined by electron microscopy. Enzymes from degranulated PMNL cleaved leukotoxin to non-cytotoxic fragments. Elastase and cathepsin G were mainly responsible for the cleavage. Inhibition of leukotoxin degradation was found in the presence of whole serum or of the serum protease inhibitors alpha2-macroglobulin and alpha1-proteinase inhibitor. Under these conditions enhanced PMNL lysis was also observed. A similar enhancement of PMNL lysis was found when PMNL degranulation was blocked by EDTA. On the other hand, lipoprotein-deficient serum had no influence on the leukotoxic activity. The results indicate that the increased leukotoxicity of A. actinomycetemcomitans observed in the presence of human serum is caused by the serum protease inhibitors that counteract proteolytic degradation of leukotoxin. The degradation is caused by enzymes from degranulated PMNL triggered by leukotoxin.
Resistance to granzyme B-mediated cytochrome c release in Bak-deficient cells.	Granzyme B (GrB), a serine protease with substrate specificity similar to the caspase family, is a major component of granule-mediated cytotoxicity of T lymphocytes. Although GrB can directly activate caspases, it induces apoptosis predominantly via Bid cleavage, mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization, and cytochrome c release. To study the molecular regulators for GrB-mediated mitochondrial apoptotic events, we used a CTL-free cytotoxicity system, wherein target cells are treated with purified GrB and replication-deficient adenovirus (Ad). We report here that the Bcl-2 proapoptotic family member, Bak, plays a dominant role in GrB-mediated mitochondrial apoptotic events. A variant of Jurkat cells, deficient in Bak expression, was resistant to GrB/Ad-mediated apoptosis, as determined by lack of membranous phosphatidylserine exposure, lack of DNA breaks, lack of mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization, and unchanged expression of inner mitochondrial membrane cardiolipin. The resistance of Bak-deficient cells to GrB/Ad cytotoxicity was reversed by transduction of the Bak gene into these cells. The requirement for both Bid and Bak, was further demonstrated in a cell-free system using purified mitochondria and S-100 cytosol. Purified mitochondria from Bid knockout mice, but not from Bax knockout mice, failed to release cytochrome c in response to autologous S-100 and GrB. Also, Bak-deficient mitochondria did not release cytochrome c in response to GrB-treated cytosol unless recombinant Bak protein was added. These results are the first to report a role for Bak in GrB-mediated mitochondrial apoptosis. This study demonstrates that GrB-cleaved Bid, which differs in size and site of cleavage from caspase-8-cleaved Bid, utilizes Bak for cytochrome c release, and therefore, suggests that deficiency in Bak may serve as a mechanism of immune evasion for tumor or viral infected cells.
Preparation of Fab' from murine IgG2a for thiol reactive conjugation.	Lysyl endopeptidase (LE) from Achromobacter lyticus M497-1 (EC 3.4.21.50) was utilized to prepare F(ab')2 fragments from mouse anti-P-glycoprotein IgG2a obtained from the UIC2 hybridoma. This report describes a novel single step purification procedure for F(ab')2 fragments that eliminates residual LE activity responsible for secondary cleavage of F(ab')2 to Fab fragments. The purification of F(ab')2 and Fc fragments was accomplished utilizing protein G affinity chromatography and either gradient or step changes in the pH/ionic strength for elution of the Fc and F(ab')2 fragments. Residual LE was eluted from the protein G column with buffer containing 200 mM L-lysine prior to elution of F(ab')2 and Fc fragments. The activity of LE was monitored using the fluorogenic substrate Boc-Val-Leu-Lys-7-amido 4-methyl coumarin. A similar purification procedure for F(ab')2 fragments produced following pepsin digestion of IgG2a is also outlined. The ability of Fab' fragments, from reduced F(ab')2 fragments following LE digestion of IgG2a, to conjugate to thiol reactive groups was demonstrated using N-(2-hydroxypropyl)methacrylamide (HPMA) copolymer-meso chlorin e6 mono (N-2-aminoethylamide) (Mce6) conjugates containing reactive maleimide groups. The biological activity of the Fab' targeted HPMA copolymer-Mce6 conjugates was tested against the P-glycoprotein expressing human ovarian carcinoma A2780/AD cell line utilizing a cell survival assay. Fab' targeted HPMA copolymer-Mce6 conjugate demonstrated significantly higher cytotoxicity than either a monoclonal antibody (mAb) targeted HPMA copolymer-Mce6 conjugate or a non-targeted HPMA copolymer-Mce6 conjugate, p < 0.05.
Vasoconstrictor activity of novel endothelin peptide, ET-1(1 - 31), in human mammary and coronary arteries in vitro.	1. The ability of the putative chymase product of big endothelin-1 (big ET-1), ET-1(1 - 31), to constrict isolated endothelium-denuded preparations of human coronary and internal mammary artery was determined. 2. pD2 values in coronary and mammary artery respectively were 8.21+/-0.12 (n=14) and 8.55+/-0.11 (n=12) for ET-1, 6.74+/-0.11 (n=16) and 7.10+/-0.08 (n=16) for ET-1(1 - 31) and 6.92+/-0.10 (n=15) and 7.23+/-0.11 (n=12) for big ET-1. ET-1(1 - 31) was significantly less potent than ET-1 (P<0.001, Student's t-test) and equipotent with big ET-1. 3. Vasoconstrictor responses to 100 - 700 nM ET-1(1 - 31) were significantly (P<0.05, Student's paired t-test) attenuated by the ET(A) antagonist PD156707 (100 nM). 4. There was no effect of the ECE inhibitor PD159790 (30 microM), the ECE/NEP inhibitor phosphoramidon (100 microM) or the serine protease inhibitor chymostatin (100 microM) on ET-1(1 - 31) responses in either artery. 5. Radioimmunoassay detected significant levels of mature ET in the bathing medium of coronary (1.6+/-0.5 nM, n=14) and mammary (2.1+/-0.6 nM, n=14) arteries, suggesting that conversion of ET-1(1 - 31) to ET-1 contributed to the observed vasoconstriction. 6. ET-1(1 - 31) competed for specific [(125)I]-ET-1 binding to ET(A) and ET(B) receptors in human left ventricle with a pooled K(D) of 71.6+/-7.0 nM (n=3). 7. Therefore, in human arteries the novel peptide ET-1(1 - 31) mediated vasoconstriction via activation of the ET(A) receptor. The conversion of ET-1(1 - 31) to ET-1, by an as yet unidentified protease, must contribute wholly or partly to the observed constrictor response. Chymase generated ET-1(1 - 31) may therefore represent an alternative precursor for ET-1 production in the human vasculature.
Brain prolyl oligopeptidase activity is associated with neuronal damage rather than beta-amyloid accumulation.	Prolyl oligopeptidase (POP) have been suggested to participate in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study the activity of POP is evaluated in AD patients and in transgenic mice with substantial deposits of beta-amyloid (Abeta). In AD cases, the POP activity displayed a significant negative correlation with the scores of senile/neuritic plaques and neurofibrillary tangles but not with Abeta-load. The transgenic mice with high levels of Abeta did not have altered POP activity compared to wild type mice. Based on our results, the low POP activity in AD seems to be associated with neuronal degeneration rather than to Abeta accumulation.
Mechanisms of Arg-Pro-Pro-Gly-Phe inhibition of thrombin.	Investigations determined the mechanism(s) by which Arg-Pro-Pro-Gly-Phe (RPPGF) inhibits thrombin-induced platelet activation. High concentrations of RPPGF inhibit thrombin-induced coagulant activity. RPPGF binds to the active site of thrombin by forming a parallel beta-strand with Ser214-Gly216 and interacts with His57, Asp189, and Ser195 of the catalytic triad. RPPGF competitively inhibits alpha-thrombin from hydrolyzing Sar-Pro-Arg-paranitroanilide with a Ki = 1.75 +/- 0.03 mM. Other mechanisms were sought to explain why RPPGF inhibits thrombin activation of platelets at concentrations below that which inhibits its active site. Soluble RPPGF blocks biotinylated NATLDPRSFLLR of the thrombin cleavage site on protease-activated receptor (PAR)1 from binding to the peptide RPPGC (IC50 = 20 microM). The soluble recombinant extracellular domain of PAR1 (rPAR1EC) blocks biotinylated RPPGF binding to rPAR1EC (IC50 = 50 microM) bound to microtiter plates, but rPAR1EC deletion mutants missing the sequence LDPR or PRSF do not. RPPGF and related forms prevent the thrombin-like enzyme thrombocytin from proteolyzing rPAR1EC at concentrations that do not block thrombocytin's active site. These studies indicate that RPPGF is a bifunctional inhibitor of thrombin: it binds to PAR1 to prevent thrombin cleavage at Arg41 and interacts with the active site of alpha-thrombin.
Cardiac interstitial bradykinin and mast cells modulate pattern of LV remodeling in volume overload in rats.	In the current study, interstitial fluid (ISF), bradykinin (BK), and angiotensin II (ANG II) levels were measured using cardiac microdialysis in conscious, nonsedated rats at baseline and at 48 h and 5 days after each of the following: sham surgery (sham, n = 6), sham + administration of ANG-converting enzyme inhibitor ramipril (R, n = 6), creation of aortocaval fistula (ACF, n = 6), ACF + R (n = 6), and ACF + R + BK2 receptor antagonist (HOE-140) administration (n = 6). At 5 days, both ISF ANG II and BK increased in ACF rats (P < 0.05); however, in ACF + R rats, ISF ANG II did not differ from basal levels and ISF BK increased greater than threefold above baseline at 2 and 5 days (P < 0.05). Five days after ACF, the left ventricular (LV) weight-to-body weight ratio increased 30% (P < 0.05) in ACF but did not differ from sham in ACF + R and ACF + R + HOE-140 rats despite similar systemic arterial pressures across all ACF groups. However, ACF + R + HOE-140 rats had greater postmortem wall thickness-to-diameter ratio and smaller cross-sectional diameter compared with ACF + R rats. There was a significant increase in mast cell density in ACF and ACF + R rats that decreased below sham in ACF + R + HOE-140 rats. These results suggest a potentially important interaction of mast cells and BK in the cardiac interstitium that modulates the pattern of LV remodeling in the acute phase of volume overload.
A single malaria merozoite serine protease mediates shedding of multiple surface proteins by juxtamembrane cleavage.	Erythrocyte invasion by the malaria merozoite is accompanied by the regulated discharge of apically located secretory organelles called micronemes. Plasmodium falciparum apical membrane antigen-1 (PfAMA-1), which plays an indispensable role in invasion, translocates from micronemes onto the parasite surface and is proteolytically shed in a soluble form during invasion. We have previously proposed, on the basis of incomplete mass spectrometric mapping data, that PfAMA-1 shedding results from cleavage at two alternative positions. We now show conclusively that the PfAMA-1 ectodomain is shed from the merozoite solely as a result of cleavage at a single site, just 29 residues away from the predicted transmembrane-spanning sequence. Remarkably, this cleavage is mediated by the same membrane-bound parasite serine protease as that responsible for shedding of the merozoite surface protein-1 (MSP-1) complex, an abundant, glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored multiprotein complex. Processing of MSP-1 is essential for invasion. Our results indicate the presence on the merozoite surface of a multifunctional serine sheddase with a broad substrate specificity. We further demonstrate that translocation and shedding of PfAMA-1 is an actin-independent process.
Furin-mediated processing of Pro-C-type natriuretic peptide.	C-type natriuretic peptide (CNP) is a member of the natriuretic peptide family that is involved in a variety of homeostatic processes. Here we characterize the processing essential for the conversion of the precursor, human pro-CNP, to the biologically active hormone. In human embryonic kidney 293 and chondrosarcoma SW 1353 cells, recombinant pro-CNP was converted into a mature peptide intracellularly as detected by Western analysis. Expression of recombinant human corin, a proatrial natriuretic peptide convertase, did not enhance the processing of pro-CNP in these cells. The processing of pro-CNP was inhibited in the presence of an inhibitor of the endoprotease furin but was not affected by inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases and tumor necrosis factor-alpha convertase. In furin-deficient human colon adenocarcinoma LoVo cells, no conversion of recombinant pro-CNP to CNP was detected. Expression of recombinant human furin in LoVo cells restored the ability of these cells to process pro-CNP. Furthermore, incubation of purified recombinant human furin with LoVo cell lysate containing pro-CNP led to the conversion of the precursor to a mature peptide. The furin-processed CNP was shown to be biologically active in a cell-based cGMP assay. These results demonstrate that furin is a critical enzyme for the processing of human pro-CNP.
Analysis and optimization of structure-based virtual screening protocols. 2. Examination of docked ligand orientation sampling methodology: mapping a pharmacophore for success.	An important element of any structure-based virtual screening (SVS) technique is the method used to orient the ligands in the target active site. This has been a somewhat overlooked issue in recent SVS validation studies, with the assumption being made that the performance of an algorithm for a given set of orientation sampling settings will be representative for the general behavior of said technique. Here, we analyze five different SVS targets using a variety of sampling paradigms within the DOCK, GOLD and PROMETHEUS programs over a data set of approximately 10,000 noise compounds, combined with data sets containing multiple active compounds. These sets have been broken down by chemotype, with chemotype hit rate used to provide a measure of enrichment with a potentially improved relevance to real world SVS experiments. The variability in enrichment results produced by different sampling paradigms is illustrated, as is the utility of using pharmacophores to constrain sampling to regions that reflect known structural biology. The difference in results when comparing chemotype with compound hit rates is also highlighted.
Purification and characterization of perchloric acid soluble protein from rat lung.	We isolated a perchloric acid soluble protein from the post-mitochondria supernatant fraction of the rat lung and designated it as RLu-PSP1. The protein is soluble in 5% perchloric acid and was purified by ammonium sulfate fractionation and CM-Sephadex chromatography. The amino acid sequence of RLu-PSP was identical with that of rat liver PSP (RL-PSP). RLu-PSP inhibited protein synthesis in a rabbit reticulocyte lysate system. It was expressed mainly in cytoplasm of bronchioles and alveolar epithelial cells of the lung from 60-day-old rats. In 15-day-old rat embryos, the epithelial-lining of the terminal buds of the respiratory tree was immunopositive. The expression of RLu-PSP increased from the embryonic 15th day to the postnatal 40th day. This is the first report on the presence of a PSP in rat lung and on its involvement in the regulation of cellular growth and differentiation.
First natural urease inhibitor from Euphorbia decipiens.	Three new diterpene esters with a myrsinol-type skeleton have been isolated from Euphorbia decipiens BOISS. & BUHSE. The structure elucidation of the isolated compounds was based primarily on two-dimensional (2D)-NMR techniques including correlation spectroscopy (COSY), heteronuclear multiple quantum coherence (HMQC), heteronuclear multiple bond correlation (HMBC) and nuclear Overhauser effect spectroscopy (NOESY) experiments. Compounds 1 and 3 are active against prolyl endopeptidase and compound 2 showed inhibitory activity against urease enzyme.
DISC1 (Disrupted-In-Schizophrenia 1) is a centrosome-associated protein that interacts with MAP1A, MIPT3, ATF4/5 and NUDEL: regulation and loss of interaction with mutation.	Disrupted-In-Schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) is a novel gene associated with schizophrenia by multiple genetic studies. In order to determine how mutations in DISC1 might cause susceptibility to schizophrenia, we undertook a comprehensive study of the cellular biology of DISC1 in its full-length and disease-associated mutant forms. DISC1 interacts by yeast two-hybrid, mammalian two-hybrid, and co-immunoprecipitation assays with multiple proteins of the centrosome and cytoskeletal system, including MIPT3, MAP1A and NUDEL; proteins which localize receptors to membranes, including alpha-actinin2 and beta4-spectrin; and proteins which transduce signals from membrane receptors, including ATF4 and ATF5. Truncated mutant DISC1 fails to interact with ATF4, ATF5 or NUDEL. Deletion mapping demonstrated that DISC1 has distinct interaction domains: MAP1A interacts via its LC2 domain with the N-terminus of DISC1, whereas MIPT3 and NUDEL bind via their C-terminal domains to the central coiled-coil domain of DISC1, and ATF4/5 bind via their C-terminal domains to the C-terminus of DISC1. In its full-length form, DISC1 protein localizes to predominantly perinuclear punctate structures which extend into neurites in some cells; mutant truncated DISC1, by contrast, is seen in a diffuse pattern throughout the cytoplasm and abundantly in neurites. Both forms co-localize with the centrosomal complex, although truncated less abundantly than full-length DISC1. Although both full-length and mutant DISC1 are found in microtubule fractions, neither form of DISC1 appears to bind directly to microtubules, but rather do so in a MIPT3-dependent fashion that is stabilized by taxol. Based on these data, we propose that DISC1 is a multifunctional protein whose truncation contributes to schizophrenia susceptibility by disrupting intracellular transport, neurite architecture and/or neuronal migration, all of which have been hypothesized to be pathogenic in the schizophrenic brain.
Effect of denuded endothelial cells on arginine amidase activity released from rabbit arteries.	1. We examined the secretion of arginine amidase activity from rabbit aorta and ear arteries. 2. The amount of arginine amidase activity spontaneously secretion from the aorta was significantly less than that secreted from the ear artery. Dermatan sulphate significantly facilitated the secretion of arginine amidase activity from both the aorta and ear artery. 3. The dermatan sulphate-enhanced secretion of arginine amidase activity from the aorta and ear artery was reduced by denudation of the endothelium. 4. These findings may indicate that spontaneous release of arginine amidase activity from vascular smooth muscle and the enhancement of secretion of arginine amidase activity produced by dermatan sulphate depends on the endothelium.
Serine proteases of the fibrinolysis pathway are not involved in lethal hepatitis and fibrinogen breakdown induced by tumor necrosis factor.	Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) plays a key role in several types of fulminant and acute hepatitis, and induces massive apoptosis and necrosis of hepatocytes. Our previous studies described the central role played by several matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and one or more unknown serine proteases. The aim of this study was to investigate the involvement of serine proteases of the fibrinolytic pathway, known to be activators of several MMPs, in TNF-induced hepatitis and fibrinogen (FG) breakdown. Experiments were performed in a model of TNF-induced hepatitis, consisting of administration of TNF in combination with D-(+)-galactosamine (GalN) to mice deficient in urokinase-type plasminogen (PG) activator (u-PA), tissue-type PG activator (t-PA) or PG. Lethality, transaminase release, increased plasma clotting time and FG levels were measured. In PA- and PG-deficient mice, TNF/GalN still induced hepatitis, as well as increased clotting time and FG breakdown. MMP-9 activation still occurred in the liver despite the lack of plasmin. The data suggest that the serine proteases involved in TNF-induced lethal hepatitis are no constituents of the fibrinolytic cascade.
Morphologic and immunophenotypic properties of neoplastic cells in a case of mast cell sarcoma.	Mast cell sarcoma is an extremely rare and aggressive type of mast cell disease. Only a few cases have been described so far, and little is known about the biology and phenotype of afflicted cells. We describe morphologic and immunophenotypic properties of neoplastic mast cells in a case of an intracranial mast cell sarcoma. In Wright-Giemsa-stained cytospin preparations, the morphology of dispersed cells appeared to be highly atypical with a considerable percentage of metachromatic blasts and mast cells with bilobed or multilobed nuclei. Combined toluidine blue/immunofluorescence staining revealed expression of CD13, CD45, CD88, CD116, and CD117 (c-KIT) on neoplastic mast cells. As assessed by immunohistochemistry, mast cells were immunoreactive for tryptase and CD68R, In contrast, the CD2 antigen that is expressed in mast cells in patients with indolent systemic mastocytosis was not detectable. Mast cells also failed to display the c-KIT mutation Asp-816-Val, which is typically found in systemic mast cell disorders. Together, neoplastic mast cells in a case of mast cell sarcoma were found to exhibit unique morphologic, phenotypical, and molecular features when compared with mast cells in indolent mastocytosis or normal tissue mast cells.
Proteinase-3 directly activates MMP-2 and degrades gelatin and Matrigel; differential inhibition by (-)epigallocatechin-3-gallate.	Proteinase-3 (PR-3), a serine-proteinase mainly expressed by polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs), can degrade a variety of extracellular matrix proteins and may contribute to a number of inflammation-triggered diseases. Here, we show that in addition to Matrigel(TM) components, PR-3 is also able to degrade denatured collagen and directly activate secreted but not membrane-bound pro-MMP-2, a matrix metallo-proteinase instrumental to cellular invasion. In contrast, following addition of purified PR-3 or PMNs to HT1080 tumor cells, dose-dependent inhibition of in vitro Matrigel(TM) invasion is registered. (-)Epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG), the main flavanol in green tea and known to inhibit inflammation and tumor invasion, exerts dose-dependent inhibition of degradation of gelatin (IC(50)<20 micro M) and casein, which is directly triggered by PR-3. The presence of EGCG does not modify the colocalization of MMP-2 and exogenous PR-3 at the cell surface and does not restrain secreted pro-MMP-2 and pro-MMP-9 activation or degradation of a specific, synthetic peptide by PR-3. These results add new activities to the list of those exerted by PR-3 and indicate a differential inhibition as a result of EGCG.
Expression of stratum corneum chymotryptic enzyme in ichthyoses and squamoproliferative processes.	Stratum corneum chymotryptic enzyme (SCCE) is a serine protease, which is thought to play a role in the desquamation of skin via the proteolysis of desmosomes in the stratum corneum. The objective of this study was to investigate the expression of SCCE in ichthyoses and squamoproliferative processes, conditions in which the shedding and replacement of epidermal cells is disrupted.
Impaired explorative behavior and neophobia in genetically modified mice lacking or overexpressing the extracellular serine protease inhibitor neuroserpin.	Neuroserpin is a neural serpin that inhibits the extracellular protease tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA). We have generated neuroserpin-deficient mice which are viable and healthy. Zymographic analysis of neuroserpin-deficient brain showed unaltered tPA activity, suggesting that other inhibitors contribute to the regulation of tPA and may compensate for the defect. Analysis of explorative behavior revealed selective reduction of locomotor activity in novel environments, an anxiety-like response on the O-maze, and a neophobic response to novel objects. Mice overexpressing neuroserpin under the control of the Thy1.2 promoter are known to have a reduced brain tPA activity. They showed reduced center exploration in the open-field test and, like neuroserpin-deficient mice, a neophobic phenotype in the novel object test. Our results implicate neuroserpin in the regulation of emotional behavior through a mechanism that is at least in part independent of tPA activity. They are the first evidence for a role of protease inhibitors in mood regulation.
Favorable prognostic value of tissue human kallikrein 11 (hK11) in patients with ovarian carcinoma.	Human kallikrein 11 (hK11/trypsin-like serine protease/TLSP, encoded by the KLK11 gene) is a member of the kallikrein family of secreted serine proteases. Recently, we developed a highly sensitive and specific immunoassay for hK11 and found that this protease is expressed in the prostate, stomach and trachea as well as in amniotic fluid and milk of lactating women. Elevated serum hK11 levels were found in 60% of men with prostate cancer and 70% of women with ovarian cancer. Also, hK11 expression was found to be under the regulation of steroid hormones, particularly estrogens, at the level of KLK11 transcription. We hypothesized that hK11 may be implicated in endocrine-related malignancies and serve as a novel prostate and ovarian cancer serological marker. The aim of our study was to examine if hK11 expression in ovarian tumors bears any prognostic significance. The concentration of hK11 (ng per mg of total protein) in 104 ovarian tumor cytosolic extracts was quantified and correlated with clinicopathologic variables and outcome over a median follow-up period of 67 months. Outcome was defined as progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS). hK11 concentration in ovarian tumor cytosols ranged from 0-21 ng/mg of total protein, with a median of 0.54 ng/mg. An optimal cutoff value of 0.54 ng/mg was selected to categorize tumors as hK11-positive or -negative. hK11-positive tumors were more frequently associated with early stage (Stage I/II) disease, pre-/peri-menopausal status and patients who exhibited complete or partial response to chemotherapy (p < 0.05). Univariate analysis revealed that patients with hK11-positive tumors had a significantly decreased risk of relapse with a hazard ratio (HR) of 0.45 (p = 0.007) and death (HR of 0.34, p = 0.005). Cox multivariate analysis indicated that hK11 was an independent prognostic indicator of OS (HR of 0.41, p = 0.025). Kaplan-Meier survival curves further confirmed that women with hK11-positive tumors have longer PFS and OS (p = 0.005 and p = 0.003, respectively). Similarly, in the subgroup of patients with grade 1-2 tumors, hK11-positivity was associated with higher OS in both univariate and multivariate analysis (HR of 0.23 and 0.17, p < 0.05). Finally, in women with optimal debulking after surgery (<1 cm residual tumor), hK11 positivity was associated with a slower disease progression. These results indicate that hK11 is a novel, independent marker of favorable prognosis in patients with ovarian cancer.
The effect of topically applied secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor on the eosinophil response in the late phase of allergic conjunctivitis.	This study examined the effects of secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor (SLPI), a protease inhibitor in tears, in allergic conjunctivitis.
Carbohydrate structure of a thrombin-like serine protease from Agkistrodon rhodostoma. Structure elucidation of oligosaccharides by methylation analysis, liquid secondary-ion mass spectrometry and proton magnetic resonance.	The carbohydrate side chains of the thrombin-like serine protease ancrod from the venom of the Malayan pit viper Agkistrodon rhodostoma were liberated from tryptic glycopeptides by treatment with peptide-N4-(N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminyl)asparagine amidase F and fractionated by high-performance liquid chromatography. Glycans obtained were characterized by digestion with exoglycosidases, methylation analysis and, in part, by liquid secondary-ion mass spectrometry and 1H-NMR spectroscopy. The results reveal that this snake venom glycoprotein contains partially truncated di-, tri- and tetraantennary complex type N-glycans carrying Fuc(alpha 1-6) residues at the innermost N-acetylglucosamine and solely (alpha 2-3)-linked sialic acid substituents. As a characteristic feature, ancrod oligosaccharides comprise mainly sialylated Gal beta 3GlcNAc beta lactosamine antennae. Furthermore, a small proportion of the sugar chains were found to carry a NeuAc alpha 3GalNAc beta 4GlcNAc beta antenna exclusively linked to C-2 of Man(alpha 1-3) residues of the pentasaccharide core. Thus, many of the glycans found represent novel glycoprotein-N-glycan structures.
Lumenal labeling of rat hepatocyte endocytic compartments. Distribution of several acid hydrolases and membrane receptors.	We used a combination of subcellular fractionation and lactoperoxidase-mediated iodination to examine the polypeptide compositions of three hepatocyte endocytic compartments: early endosomes, late endosomes, and lysosomes. A chemical conjugate of asialoorosomucoid and lactoperoxidase which binds specifically to asialoglycoprotein receptors was perfused through isolated rat livers at 37 degrees C. Subcellular fractions enriched in various endocytic compartments were then isolated by differential and isopycnic centrifugation, and the lactoperoxidase moiety of the internalized conjugate was used to catalyze the iodination of lumenal-facing proteins. The 125I profiles of early and late endosomes were strikingly similar after gel electrophoresis. Using immunoprecipitation, we directly identified and compared the relative amounts of the Na+,K(+)-ATPase and several different acid hydrolases and membrane receptors in all three fractions. The asialoglycoprotein receptor and the low density lipoprotein related protein were approximately nine times more abundant in early endosomes than late endosomes, suggesting that they recycle from early endosomes. In addition, cathepsin D, but not cathepsin L, beta-glucuronidase, and lgp 120, was detected in early endosomes; however, all of these molecules were detected in lysosomes. Our findings provide strong evidence that early endosomes mature into late endosomes and that there is either selective delivery or selective retention of hydrolases at discrete points in the endocytic pathway.
Viral inhibition of inflammation: cowpox virus encodes an inhibitor of the interleukin-1 beta converting enzyme.	Cowpox virus effectively inhibits inflammatory responses against viral infection in the chick embryo. This study demonstrates that one of the viral genes necessary for this inhibition, the crmA gene (a cytokine response modifier gene), encodes a serpin that is a specific inhibitor of the interleukin-1 beta converting enzyme. This serpin can prevent the proteolytic activation of interleukin-1 beta, thereby suppressing an interleukin-1 beta response to infection. However, the modification of this single cytokine response is not sufficient to inhibit inflammatory responses. This suggests that cowpox virus encodes several cytokine response modifiers that act together to inhibit the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines in response to infection. These viral countermeasures to host defenses against infection may contribute significantly to the pathology associated with poxvirus infections.
Cytochromes c1 and b2 are sorted to the intermembrane space of yeast mitochondria by a stop-transfer mechanism.	The pathway by which cytochromes c1 and b2 reach the mitochondrial intermembrane space has been controversial. According to the "conservative sorting" hypothesis, these proteins are first imported across both outer and inner membranes into the matrix, and then are retranslocated across the inner membrane. Our data argue against this model: import intermediates of cytochromes c1 and b2 were found only outside the inner membrane; maturation of these proteins was independent of the matrix-localized hsp60 chaperone; and dihydrofolate reductase linked to the presequence of either cytochrome was imported to the intermembrane space in the absence of ATP. We conclude that cytochromes c1 and b2 are sorted by a mechanism in which translocation through the inner membrane is arrested by a "stop-transfer" signal in the presequence. The arrested intermediates may be associated with a proteinaceous channel in the inner membrane.
Murine Thy-1+ dendritic epidermal T cell lines express granule-associated perforin and a family of granzyme molecules.	Two T cell receptor gamma/delta + murine dendritic epidermal T cell (DETC) lines with cytotoxic potential towards various tumor cell lines are shown to express perforin and granzyme A both at the mRNA and protein levels. Furthermore, mRNA transcripts for granzyme B and at least one of the other granzymes D, E, F and G are detected in amounts equivalent to a murine IL-2-dependent alpha/beta + cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell line. Hemolytic granules containing serine-esterase (granzyme A) activity are isolated from a DETC line. Thus, cytolytically-active Thy-1+ DETC lines contain the granule-associated pore-forming protein, perforin, and at least one member of each of the three subgroups of granzyme serine esterases (granzyme A, B and D/E/F/G). These data support the proposed role of gamma/delta + DETC in immune surveillance, possibly exerting cytolytic functions against virus- or parasite-infected, transformed or stressed cells.
Production of recombinant human glucagon in the form of a fusion protein in Escherichia coli; recovery of glucagon by sequence-specific digestion.	Recombinant human glucagon was successfully produced with a high level of expression in Escherichia coli as a fusion protein with human interferon gamma. The synthetic gene was designed to release glucagon, which does not contain glutamic acid residues, from fusion protein with the Staphylococcus aureus strain V8 protease that specifically cleaves the peptide bond on the carboxyl side of the glutamic acid residue. The resulting glucagon was purified to homogeneity by a combination of C18 reverse-phase HPLC and ion-exchange HPLC. The yield of intact glucagon obtained from 11 of culture was approximately 12 mg. The structure of recombinant human glucagon was confirmed by HPLC and amino acid composition/sequence analyses.
Characterization of a chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan synthesized by monkey arterial smooth muscle cells in vitro.	A monoclonal antibody against arterial smooth muscle cell chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan has been developed. Incubation of [35S]-methionine labeled proteoglycans with MAb 941 quantitatively immunoprecipitated all the chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan (CSPG) synthesized by these cells. Digestion of the immunoprecipitate with chondroitin AC lyase revealed one major protein band (Mr 420,000) and two minor bands (Mr 509,000 and 390,000) on SDS-PAGE that are composed of very similar peptides when analyzed by limited peptide digestion by S. aureus V8 protease. Additional studies demonstrated that this monoclonal antibody recognized an epitope on the chondroitin sulfate chains. However, only a minor subpopulation (5-12%) of the alkaline-borohydride released glycosaminoglycan chains was immunoprecipitated and this subset of chains was slightly larger than the non-immunoprecipitated chains. High pressure liquid chromatography analysis of the disaccharides generated from the immunoprecipitated glycosaminoglycan chains demonstrated that these chains were enriched in chondroitin-6-sulfate relative to chondroitin-4-sulfate (2:1) while that of the non-immunoprecipitated chains had a ratio of 1:1. These studies indicate that at least two distinct pools of chondroitin sulfate chains are present on all the chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan synthesized by arterial smooth muscle cells: a major population (89-95%) containing 6-sulfate and 4-sulfate in relatively equal proportion and a minor population (5-12%) which is hydrodynamically larger with a 6-sulfate to 4-sulfate ratio of 2:1.
Biochemical characterization of an antigenic saline extract of Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae serotype 5 and identification of a serotype-specific antigen for ELISA serodiagnosis.	A saline extract of boiled-formalinized whole cells from a local strain (81-750; Quebec, Canada) of Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae, serotype 5b was used as an antigen in an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for serodiagnosis of swine pleuropneumonia. Characterization of this crude extract was done and proteins, neutral sugars, hexosamines, and 2-keto-3-deoxyoctonate (KDO) were evaluated. On phenol extraction of the crude extract a serotype-specific antigen of polysaccharidic nature was recovered from the aqueous phase. This antigen was characterized using sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) with Coomassie blue, silver and Schiff stainings. Immunoblots were done using sera of experimentally infected pigs that showed serotype specificity and cross-reactivity. Overall, the results indicate that the O-chain of lipopolysaccharides is a specific antigen that could be used in ELISA for the serodiagnosis of serotype 5 of A. pleuropneumoniae.
Prostate specific antigen predominantly forms a complex with alpha 1-antichymotrypsin in blood. Implications for procedures to measure prostate specific antigen in serum.	Prostate specific antigen (PSA) is a zymogen of a 33-kilodalton (kD) serine proteinase with extensive similarity to glandular kallikreins. The mechanism responsible for converting the zymogen into active proteinase has not been defined, but active PSA may be irreversibly inactivated in vitro by two of the major proteinase inhibitors in blood: alpha 1-antichymotrypsin and alpha 2-macroglobulin.
Replacement of negative by positive charges in the presumed membrane-inserted part of diphtheria toxin B fragment. Effect on membrane translocation and on formation of cation channels.	Diphtheria toxin B fragment is capable of forming cation-selective channels in the plasma membrane. Such channels may be involved in the translocation of the toxin A fragment to the cytosol. Seven negatively charged amino acids in the B fragment were replaced one by one by lysines, followed by studies of cytotoxicity and channel-forming ability of the different mutants. The mutant D392K showed a strong reduction in binding to cell surface receptors. Of the six mutants that showed wild-type binding affinity, the two mutants D295K and D318K were very inefficient in forming channels. These two mutants had the lowest ability to mediate A fragment translocation. The mutant E362K was able both to induce cation channel formation and to mediate A fragment translocation at a higher pH value than the wild-type B fragment. The results support the notion that formation of cation channels is of importance for the translocation of the A fragment across the plasma membrane, and they indicate that the pH requirement for translocation of the A fragment to the cytosol is partly determined by the B fragment.
Chronic allergy to dietary ovalbumin induces lymphocyte migration to rat small intestinal mucosa that is inhibited by MAdCAM-1.	Few models have described a chronic food allergy with morphological changes in the intestinal mucosa. Here we established an ovalbumin (OVA)-induced, cell-mediated, allergic rat model and examined lymphocyte migration in the gut. Brown Norway rats were intraperitoneally sensitized to OVA and then given 10 mg OVA/day by gastric intubation for 6 wk. Lymphocyte subsets and adhesion molecules were examined immunohistochemically, and the migration of T lymphocytes to microvessels of Peyer's patches and villus mucosa was observed by using an intravital microscope. Serum OVA-specific IgG and IgE levels were increased in animals repeatedly exposed to OVA. Significant villus atrophy and increased crypt depth was accompanied by increased infiltration of T lymphocytes in the small intestinal mucosa of the group given OVA. Expression of rat mast cell protease II and of mucosal addressin cell adhesion molecule-1 (MAdCAM-1) was also increased in these groups. The administration of anti-MAdCAM-1 antibody significantly attenuated the OVA-induced changes in the mucosal architecture and in CD4 T lymphocyte infiltration. Intravital observation demonstrated that in rats with a chronic allergy, T lymphocytes significantly accumulated in villus microvessels as well as in Peyer's patches via a MAdCAM-1-dependent process. Our model of chronic food allergy revealed that lymphocyte migration was increased with MAdCAM-1 upregulation.
DNA and RNA binding by the mitochondrial lon protease is regulated by nucleotide and protein substrate.	The ATP-dependent Lon protease belongs to a unique group of proteases that bind DNA. Eukaryotic Lon is a homo-oligomeric ring-shaped complex localized to the mitochondrial matrix. In vitro, human Lon binds specifically to a single-stranded GT-rich DNA sequence overlapping the light strand promoter of human mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). We demonstrate that Lon binds GT-rich DNA sequences found throughout the heavy strand of mtDNA and that it also interacts specifically with GU-rich RNA. ATP inhibits the binding of Lon to DNA or RNA, whereas the presence of protein substrate increases the DNA binding affinity of Lon 3.5-fold. We show that nucleotide inhibition and protein substrate stimulation coordinately regulate DNA binding. In contrast to the wild type enzyme, a Lon mutant lacking both ATPase and protease activity binds nucleic acid; however, protein substrate fails to stimulate binding. These results suggest that conformational changes in the Lon holoenzyme induced by nucleotide and protein substrate modulate the binding affinity for single-stranded mtDNA and RNA in vivo. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments show that Lon interacts with mtDNA polymerase gamma and the Twinkle helicase, which are components of mitochondrial nucleoids. Taken together, these results suggest that Lon participates directly in the metabolism of mtDNA.
Linkage of neutrophil serine proteases and decreased surfactant protein-A (SP-A) levels in inflammatory lung disease.	In patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) neutrophils are recruited in excess to the airways yet pathogens are not cleared and the patients suffer from chronic infections. Recent studies have shown a deficiency in airway fluids from patients with CF and other inflammatory pulmonary conditions of surfactant protein A (SP-A), a pattern recognition molecule that facilitates uptake of microbes by macrophages and neutrophils.
Protease activity in gut of Daphnia magna: evidence for trypsin and chymotrypsin enzymes.	Two major protease activities were present in gut homogenates of the cladoceran crustacean Daphnia magna: (i) a trypsin activity that hydrolysed the synthetic substrate N-benzoyl-dl-arginine p-nitroanilide and was strongly inhibited by N-p-tosyl-lysine chloroketone (TLCK) and 4-(amidinophenyl)methanesulfonyl fluoride (APMSF) and not inhibited by chymostatin; and (ii) a chymotrypsin activity that hydrolysed synthetic chymotrypsin substrates containing more than one amino acid, did not hydrolyse N-benzoyl-l-tyrosine p-nitroanilide, and was strongly inhibited by chymostatin and not by TLCK and APMSF. Both activities had alkaline pH optima (pH 7-10), but were shown to be due to distinct types of proteases. These two enzyme activities accounted for 75-83% of the proteolytic activity of gut contents. Substrate SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis revealed nine different proteases ranging from 15 to 73 kDa.
CD8+ T-cells: function and response to HIV infection.	CD8+ T-cells are a critical component of the cellular immune response and they play an important role in the control of viral infection. During HIV infection, CD8+ T-cells are able to recognize infected cells through an MHC-I dependent process and are able to lyse cells harboring viral infection by the secretion of perforin and granzymes. These cytotoxic T-lymphocytes (CTL) can also eliminate virally infected cells through the engagement of death-inducing ligands expressed by CD8+ T-cells with death receptors on the surface of the infected cell. In addition, CD8+ CTL secrete soluble factors such as beta-chemokines and the CD8+ antiviral factor (CAF) that suppress viral binding and transcription, respectively. In order for HIV to survive the pressures placed upon it by the immune system, the virus has adopted numerous strategies to evade the CD8+ T-cell response. The high mutation rate of HIV has allowed the virus to escape CD8+ T-cell recognition in addition to its ability to down-regulate surface MHC-I expression from infected cells. Also, by altering the pattern of cytokine production and engagement of cellular receptors, HIV disrupts proper CD8+ T-cell signaling. The resultant improper T-cell receptor (TcR) stimulation creates an anergic state in these cells. By affecting the function of CD4+ T-cells and antigen presenting cells that are required for proper CD8+ T-cell maturation, HIV is able to decrease the circulating pool of effector and memory CD8+ T-cells that are able to combat viral infection. The end result is the aberration of CD8+ T-cell function.
Granzymes in cytolytic lymphocytes--to kill a killer?	Granzymes (gzm) are major components of the granules of cytolytic lymphocytes, natural killer and cytotoxic T cells. Their generally accepted mode of action consists of their directed secretion towards a virus-infected or neoplastic target cell and perforin-dependent delivery to the target cell cytosol, where they engage in various actions resulting in target cell apoptosis. Here, based on observations of infection of gzmAxB(-/-) mice with ectromelia virus, mousepox, we propose an additional--and distinct--function for gzmA and B. In this model, gzm constitute one of the first lines of defence of immune cells against virus infection of immune cells themselves. Accordingly, endogenous gzm interfere with viral replication in cytolytic lymphocytes either directly, as a result of their proteolytic activity, leading to destruction of viral proteins, or indirectly, via: (i) processes akin to the caspase cascade when acting as effector molecules in the induction of target cell apoptosis; or (ii) their capacity to induce early inflammatory mediators. We discuss the predictions of the model in the light of available data.
Caspase activation inhibits proteasome function during apoptosis.	The ubiquitin/proteasome system regulates protein turnover by degrading polyubiquitinated proteins. To date, all studies on the relationship of apoptosis and the proteasome have emphasized the key role of the proteasome in the regulation of apoptosis, by virtue of its ability to degrade regulatory molecules involved in apoptosis. We now demonstrate how induction of apoptosis may regulate the activity of the proteasome. During apoptosis, caspase activation results in the cleavage of three specific subunits of the 19S regulatory complex of the proteasome: S6' (Rpt5) and S5a (Rpn10), whose role is to recognize polyubiquitinated substrates of the proteasome, and S1 (Rpn2), which with S5a and S2 (Rpn1) holds together the lid and base of the 19S regulatory complex. This caspase-mediated cleavage inhibits the proteasomal degradation of ubiquitin-dependent and -independent cellular substrates, including proapoptotic molecules such as Smac, so facilitating the execution of the apoptotic program by providing a feed-forward amplification loop.
Activation of hepatocyte growth factor in monkey stomach following gastric mucosal injury.	Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) is involved in the proliferation and migration of various types of epithelial cells. HGF is produced as a single-chain precursor (pro-HGF) and functions after activation by HGF activator (HGFA). In this study, we aimed to examine the activation of pro-HGF to mature HGF and the expressions of HGF-related molecules, such as HGFA and HGFA inhibitor type 1 (HAI-1), in a monkey model of gastric mucosal injury.
Leucosceptrine--a novel sesterterpene with prolylendopeptidase inhibitory activity from Leucosceptrum canum.	A novel sesterterpene, leucosceptrine, was isolated from the medicinal plant Leucosceptrum canum from Nepal. The structure was determined by single-crystal X-ray diffraction and spectroscopic techniques. The biosynthesis of leucosceptrine (1) is proposed here. Leucosceptrine (1) exhibited prolylendopeptidase inhibitory activity.
Secretion of haemolysins and proteases by Aeromonas hydrophila EO63: separation and characterization of the serine protease (caseinase) and the metalloprotease (elastase).	To determine the haemolysins and proteases excreted by the virulent strain EO63 of Aeromonas hydrophila grown in complex media and to then fractionate and characterize them, in particular those with elastolytic activity.
T cells, fibroblast-like synoviocytes, and granzyme B+ cytotoxic cells are associated with joint damage in patients with recent onset rheumatoid arthritis.	To determine immunohistological markers in synovial tissue of patients with early rheumatoid arthritis (RA) which are associated with unfavourable disease outcome.
Requirement for aspartate-cleaved bid in apoptosis signaling by DNA-damaging anti-cancer regimens.	Lymphoid malignancies can escape from DNA-damaging anti-cancer drugs and gamma-radiation by blocking apoptosis-signaling pathways. How these regimens induce apoptosis is incompletely defined, especially in cells with nonfunctional p53. We report here that the BH3-only Bcl-2 family member Bid is required for mitochondrial permeabilization and apoptosis induction by etoposide and gamma-radiation in p53 mutant T leukemic cells. Bid is not transcriptionally up-regulated in response to these stimuli but is activated by cleavage on aspartate residues 60 and/or 75, which are the targets of caspase-8 and granzyme B. Bid activity is not inhibitable by c-Flip(L), CrmA, or dominant negative caspase-9 and therefore is independent of inducer caspase activation by death receptors or the mitochondria. Caspase-2, which has been implicated as inducer caspase in DNA damage pathways, appeared to be processed in response to etoposide and gamma-radiation but downstream of caspase-9. Knock down of caspase-2 by short interfering RNA further excluded its role in Bid activation by DNA damage. Caspase-2 was implicated in the death receptor pathway however, where it contributed to effector caspase processing downstream of inducer caspases. Granzyme B-specific serpins could not block DNA damage-induced apoptosis, excluding a role for granzyme B in the generation of active Bid. We conclude that Bid, cleaved by an undefined aspartate-specific protease, can be a key mediator of the apoptotic response to DNA-damaging anticancer regimens.
Role of neutrophils in mucus hypersecretion in COPD and implications for therapy.	Airway mucus hypersecretion is a serious and presently untreatable symptom of COPD. Over the past several years, emerging evidence has implicated epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) expression and activation in mucin production by airway epithelial (goblet) cells. Activated neutrophils recruited to the airways (and their secreted products) play several key roles in EGFR-dependent mucus hypersecretion: (i) activated neutrophils secrete tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, which induces EGFR expression in airway epithelial cells; (ii) activated neutrophils release reactive oxygen species, which activate EGFR; (iii) neutrophil elastase cleaves the EGFR proligand, pro-transforming growth factor (TGF)-alpha, releasing mature TGF alpha which activates EGFR in a ligand-dependent fashion; and (iv) neutrophil elastase causes potent goblet cell degranulation. The secretion of active products by neutrophils appears carefully regulated. The local release of neutrophil elastase requires close contact between the neutrophil and another cell, mediated by surface adhesion molecules, thus limiting proteolysis to the immediate pericellular environment. In the airway lumen, neutrophils undergo apoptosis and are cleared by macrophages without releasing their intracellular contents. In contrast, neutrophils that die by necrosis disgorge proteases and reactive oxygen species into the lumen. In COPD, conditions within the airway lumen promote neutrophil necrosis. It is concluded that neutrophil death via necrosis leads to the high concentrations of free neutrophil elastase and reactive oxygen species in the sputum of patients with airway neutrophilia and mucus hypersecretion. Inflammatory cells (neutrophils), molecules (neutrophil elastase and reactive oxygen species), signaling pathways (EGFR), and cellular processes (neutrophil necrosis) contribute to mucus hypersecretion in COPD, and are potential targets for therapy. Interventions that target EGFR, neutrophil elastase, and reactive oxygen species exist and can be evaluated as treatments for neutrophil-dependent mucus hypersecretion.
Generation of major histocompatibility complex class I antigens: functional interplay between proteasomes and TPPII.	The proteasome is key in the cascade of proteolytic processing required for the generation of peptides presented at the cell surface to cytotoxic T lymphocytes by major histocompatibility complex class I molecules. Proteasome-dependent epitope processing is greatly improved through the interferon-gamma-induced formation of immunoproteasomes and the activator complex PA28. Tripeptidyl aminopeptidase II also has a strong effect on epitope generation. With its endoproteolytic and exoproteolytic activities, TPPII acts 'downstream' of the proteasome and relies on products released by the proteasome. The antigen-processing cascade involving different proteolytic systems raises anew the question of how antigenic peptides are generated. We therefore revisit the interferon-gamma-induced immune adaptation of the proteasome and attempt to redefine its function in connection with the emerging importance of TPPII.
Function and regulation of the cyanobacterial genes lexA, recA and ruvB: LexA is critical to the survival of cells facing inorganic carbon starvation.	The cyanobacterial genes lexA, recA and ruvB were analysed in Synechocystis PCC6803, which is shown here to be more radiation resistant than the other unicellular model strain Synechococcus PCC7942. We found that cyanobacteria do not have an Escherichia coli-type SOS regulon. The Synechocystis lexA and recA promoters were found to be strong and UV insensitive, unlike the ruvB promoter, which is weak and UV-C inducible. Yet, lexA and recA are regulated by UV-C, but the control is negative and occurs at the post-transcriptional level. Two novel conserved elements were characterized in the lexA promoter: (i) an unusually long crucial box 5'-TAAAATTTTGTATCTTTT-3' (-64, -47); and (ii) a negatively acting motif 5'-TAT GAT-3' (-42, -37). These elements were not found in the recA promoter, which appeared to be unusually simple in harbouring only a single crucial element (i.e. the canonical -10 box). RuvB, operating in recombination-dependent cellular processes, was found to be dispensable to cell growth, whereas LexA and RecA appeared to be critical to cell viability. Using DNA microarrays, we have identified 57 genes with expression that is altered, at least twofold, in response to LexA depletion. None of these genes is predicted to operate in DNA metabolism, arguing against the involvement of LexA in the regulation of DNA repair. Instead, most of the LexA-responsive genes were known to be involved in carbon assimilation or controlled by carbon availability. Consistently, the growth of the LexA-depleted strain was found to be strongly dependent on the availability of inorganic carbon.
The urokinase plasminogen activator system: a rich source of tumour markers for the individualised management of patients with cancer.	The urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA) system consists of the serine protease uPA, the glycolipid-anchored receptor, uPAR, and the 2 serpin inhibitors, plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) and plasminogen activator inhibitor-2 (PAI-2). Recent findings suggest that uPA, uPAR and PAI-1 play a critical role in cancer invasion and metastasis. Consistent with their role in cancer dissemination, high levels of uPA, PAI-1 and uPAR in multiple cancer types correlate with adverse patient outcome. The prognostic value of uPA/PAI-1 in axillary node-negative breast cancer patients was recently validated using both a prospective randomised trial and a pooled analysis. Assay of uPA and PAI-1 may thus help identify low-risk node-negative patients for whom adjuvant chemotherapy is unnecessary. Finally, emerging data suggest that high levels of uPA and PAI-1 in breast cancer are associated with a preferential response to adjuvant chemotherapy but relative resistance to hormone therapy. The measurement of uPA components, especially in breast cancer, thus has the potential to help with individualised patient management.
Endogenously released Smac is insufficient to mediate cell death of human lung carcinoma in response to etoposide.	Cytotoxic agents eliminate tumor cells via different mechanisms including apoptosis, although this process is not equally efficient in all kinds of cancer cells. Thus, small cell lung carcinomas (SCLCs) are more sensitive than non-small cell lung carcinomas (NSCLCs) to therapy-induced killing. During apoptosis, several apoptogenic proteins release from the mitochondria. Among these proteins is Smac/DIABLO. Overexpression of Smac effectively potentiates apoptosis by neutralizing the caspase-inhibitory function of the inhibitors of apoptosis proteins (IAPs). However, the physiological relevance of endogenously released Smac in the promotion of malignant cell death is still unclear. Analysis of a panel of human lung cancer cell lines revealed that there is no altered Smac expression in NSCLC and SCLC that might initially impair the drug-induced cell death. Upon engagement of the mitochondrial pathway of apoptosis, etoposide provoked cytosolic accumulation of Smac along with cytochrome c and loss of the mitochondrial membrane potential. Most of these events as well as nuclear apoptotic changes required caspase activation in SCLC, but not in NSCLC. Unexpectedly, pan-caspase inhibition had no effect on Smac release. Co-treatment of SCLC with the IAP-binding peptide Smac-N7 enhanced etoposide-induced apoptosis in a concentration-dependent manner, whereas Smac downregulation by small interfering RNA (siRNA) did not influence caspase-3/-7 activities, nuclear morphological changes, DNA fragmentation, and plasma membrane integrity. Release of cytochrome c and mitochondrial protease Omi/HtrA2 is still detectable at these conditions. These data suggest that Smac deficiency may be compensated for by action of redundant determinants to kill cancer cells. Thus, translocation of endogenous Smac into cytosol does not play a critical role in cell death of human lung carcinoma after etoposide treatment.
Proteolytic cleavage of the cell surface protein p160 is required for detachment of the fertilization envelope in the sea urchin.	Sea urchin eggs secrete a serine protease activity, CGSP1, at fertilization that is essential for the block to polyspermy. Several targets of this proteolytic activity on the plasma membrane were identified here using a cell surface biotinylation approach. Amino acid microsequencing of one of these proteins led to the identification of a 4.75-kb cDNA clone from a Strongylocentrotus purpuratus ovary cDNA library that encodes a 160-kDa protein called p160. This protein contains five CUB domains and a putative transmembrane domain suggesting that p160 is an integral membrane protein with protein-protein interaction motifs facing the extracellular matrix of the egg. Whole-mount immunolocalization studies demonstrate that p160 is on the surface of the egg, enriched at the tips of microvilli. The protein is removed at fertilization in a protease-dependent manner, and functional assays suggest that p160 serves to link the plasma membrane to the vitelline layer until fertilization. Thus, p160 is a key candidate for a vitelline-layer linker protein, the selective proteolysis of which functions in the block to polyspermy in the sea urchin egg.
G-CSF-mobilized CD34+ cells cultured in interleukin-2 and stem cell factor generate a phenotypically novel monocyte.	To study the early stages of development from stem cells of the CD56+ cell population [which includes natural killer (NK) cells], granulocyte-colony stimulating factor-mobilized peripheral blood CD34+ cells from healthy donors were sorted to >99% purity and cultured in the presence of stem cell factor and interleukin (IL)-2. After 3 weeks in culture, the majority of cells acquired CD33, with or without human leukocyte antigen-DR and CD14. In 20 stem cell donors tested, 8.7 +/- 8.8% of cells were CD56+. Two major CD56+ subsets were identified: CD56(bright), mainly CD33- cells (7+/-10%, n=11) with large, granular lymphocyte morphology, and CD56dim, mainly CD33+ (2.5+/-2, n=11) cells with macrophage morphology. The CD56bright population had cytoplasmic granzyme A but lacked killer inhibitory receptor, suggesting they were immature NK cells. The CD56dim, CD33+, population lacked NK markers. They may represent a minor subset of normal monocytes at a developmental stage comparable with the rare CD56+ CD33+ hybrid myeloid/NK cell leukemia. Consistent with a monocyte nature, CD56dimCD33+ proliferated and produced a variety of cytokines upon lipopolysaccharide stimulation, including IL-8, IL-6, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, and macrophage-derived chemokine but not interferon-gamma. In a short-term cytotoxicity assay, they failed to kill but powerfully inhibited the proliferation of the NK-resistant cell line P815. The generation of CD56+ cells was negatively regulated by hyaluronic acid and IL-4, indicating that extracellular matrix may play an important role in the commitment of CD34+ cells into CD56 myeloid and lymphoid lineages.
Characterisation of ovine mast cells derived from in vitro culture of haemopoietic tissue.	Ovine mast cells generated in vitro from bone marrow (BMMC) were compared with mucosal mast cells (MMC) isolated from parasitised abomasum. Ultrastructurally, the granules of BMMC were partially developed and immature. Both cells types contained beta-hexosaminidase, arylsulfatase, histamine, dopamine and sheep mast cell proteinase (SMCP). Greater amounts of beta-hexosaminidase, but less SMCP, histamine and arylsulfatase were present in BMMC. Stimulation with calcium ionophore A23187 caused the secretion of granule constituents and generation of leukotriene C4 by BMMC in a dose-dependent manner. An additional [3H]diisopropylfluorophosphate-binding 31,500 mol. wt. serine esterase, antigenically related to SMCP (27,000 mol. wt.) was present in cultures of BMMC but was not detected in isolated MMC. Both enzymes were detected in BMMC by Day 7 of culture and were secreted concomitantly following stimulation of BMMC with ionophore.
Modulation of cord blood CD8+ T-cell effector differentiation by TGF-beta1 and 4-1BB costimulation.	Transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1), an immunosuppressive cytokine, inhibits cytotoxic T cell (CTL) immune responses. In contrast, 4-1BB (CD137), a costimulatory molecule in the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor family, amplifies CTL-mediated antitumor immune responses. We investigated whether TGF-beta1 responses could be reversed by 4-1BB costimulation during in vitro differentiation of naive CD8+ T cells into effector CTL cells. TGF-beta1 potently suppressed CTL differentiation of human cord blood naive CD8+ T cells as determined by reduced induction of characteristic phenotypes of effector cells and cytotoxic activity. TGF-beta1-mediated suppression of CTL differentiation was abrogated by 4-1BB costimulation but not by CD28 or another member in the TNF receptor family, CD30. 4-1BB costimulation suppressed Smad2 phosphorylation induced by TGF-beta1, suggesting that 4-1BB effects were at the level of TGF-beta1 signaling. 4-1BB effects on the TGF-beta1-mediated suppression were enhanced by interleukin 12 (IL-12) but counteracted by IL-4; 4-1BB expression was up- or down-regulated, respectively, by IL-12 and IL-4. IL-4 was more dominant than IL-12 when both cytokines were present during 4-1BB costimulation in the presence of TGF-beta1. This indicates critical roles for IL-4 and IL-12 in regulating 4-1BB effects on TGF-beta1-mediated suppression.
Granzyme B induces smooth muscle cell apoptosis in the absence of perforin: involvement of extracellular matrix degradation.	T cell-induced cytotoxicity, of which granzyme B is a key mediator, is believed to contribute to the pathogenesis of inflammatory vascular diseases. In this report, we investigate the mechanism of granzyme B-induced smooth muscle cell (SMC) death.
Generation of globular fragment of adiponectin by leukocyte elastase secreted by monocytic cell line THP-1.	Previous studies revealed that carboxyl-terminal fragment containing the globular domain of adiponectin exists in human plasma. Although it is proposed that the globular fragment is generated by proteolytic cleavage, the place and responsible enzyme of the cleavage are still unclear. In this study, we evaluated the activity to cleave adiponectin in culture medium of several cell lines in vitro. Adiponectin cleavage into several carboxyl-terminal fragments containing the globular domain was observed in the medium of phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate-stimulated monocytic cell lines THP-1 and U937. The molecular masses of the major products were 25, 20, and 18 kDa. The cleavage was thought to be mediated by leukocyte elastase (also known as neutrophil elastase) based on the following observations. First, the cleavage was inhibited by serine-protease inhibitors [phenylmethylsulfonylfluoride, Pefabloc SC (Roche Diagnostics, Basel, Switzerland) and aprotinin] and by the leukocyte elastase-specific peptide inhibitor MeOSuc-AAPV-CMK. Second, no activity was detected after THP-1 cells had fully differentiated into macrophages. Third, purified leukocyte elastase cleaved adiponectin with the same cleavage pattern as THP-1 cells. Finally, leukocyte elastase secreted by activated neutrophils cleaved adiponectin into the globular fragments. Amino-terminal sequence analysis revealed that cleavage sites of adiponectin by purified leukocyte elastase were between 38Thr and 39Cys, 40Ala and 41Gly, 44Ala and 45Gly, 91Ala and 92Glu, and 110Ala and 111Ala (the numbering of the positions of the amino acids starts at the signal sequence), suggesting that the cleavage occurs in the collagenous domain. These data indicate that the cleavage of adiponectin by leukocyte elastase secreted from activated monocytes and/or neutrophils could be a candidate for the mechanism of the generation of the globular fragment of adiponectin.
Membrane receptors are not required to deliver granzyme B during killer cell attack.	Granzyme B (GzmB), a serine protease of cytotoxic T lymphocytes and natural killer (NK) cells, induces apoptosis by caspase activation after crossing the plasma membrane of target cells. The mechanism of this translocation during killer cell attack, however, is not understood. Killer cells release GzmB and the membrane-disturbing perforin at the contact site after target recognition. Receptor-mediated import of glycosylated GzmB and release from endosomes were suggested, but the role of the cation-independent mannose 6-phosphate receptor was recently refuted. Using recombinant nonglycosylated GzmB, we observed binding of GzmB to cellular membranes in a cell type-dependent manner. The basis and functional impact of surface binding were clarified. GzmB binding was correlated with the surface density of heparan sulfate chains, was eliminated on treatment of target cells with heparinase III or sodium chlorate, and was completely blocked by an excess of catalytically inactive GzmB or GzmK. Although heparan sulfate-bound GzmB was taken up rapidly into intracellular lysosomal compartments, neither of the treatments had an inhibitory influence on apoptosis induced by externally added streptolysin O and GzmB or by natural killer cells. We conclude that membrane receptors for GzmB on target cells are not crucial for killer cell-mediated apoptosis.
Mast cells promote homeostasis by limiting endothelin-1-induced toxicity.	Endothelin-1 (ET-1) is a 21-amino-acid peptide, derived from vascular endothelial cells, with potent vasoconstrictor activity. ET-1 has been implicated in diverse physiological or pathological processes, including the vascular changes associated with sepsis. However, the factors that regulate ET-1-associated toxicity during bacterial infections, or in other settings, are not fully understood. Both the pathology associated with certain allergic and autoimmune disorders, and optimal host defence against bacterial and parasitic infections are mediated by mast cells. In vitro, mast cells can produce ET-1 (ref. 11), undergo ET-1-dependent and endothelin-A receptor (ET(A))-dependent activation, and release proteases that degrade ET-1 (ref. 14). Although the potential relationships between mast cells and the ET-1 system thus may be complex, the importance of interactions between ET-1 and mast cells in vivo is obscure. Here we show that ET(A)-dependent mast-cell activation can diminish both ET-1 levels and ET-1-induced pathology in vivo, and also can contribute to optimal survival during acute bacterial peritonitis. These findings identify a new biological function for mast cells: promotion of homeostasis by limiting the toxicity associated with an endogenous mediator.
Villus epithelial injury induced by infection with the nematode Nippostrongylus brasiliensis is associated with upregulation of granzyme B.	Intestinal parasite infections induce thymus-dependent villus atrophy, but the effector mechanisms directly responsible for the development of villus atrophy are not thoroughly understood. In this study, we analyzed the expression of cytotoxic factors or ligands in athymic nude rnu/rnu rats and their littermate euthymic rnu/+ rats infected with the nematode Nippostrongylus brasiliensis. Morphometric analyses showed that partial villus atrophy developed 10 days after infection in euthymic but not in athymic rats, whereas crypt hyperplasia occurred in both types of animal. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analyses of the isolated jejunal epithelial fraction showed that the development of villus atrophy in euthymic rats was positively correlated with an increase of granzyme B transcript levels but not with Fas ligand or tumor necrosis factor-alpha expression. In addition, the number of granzyme B-immunoreactive cells was increased significantly in euthymic rat villus epithelium and the propria mucosa after infection. The CD8+ cell number did not change significantly. Collectively, these findings showed that significant increases in the number of cells that express the cytotoxic factor granzyme B occur in the nematode-infected small intestine of immunocompetent hosts. The type of cells that express granzyme B and their role in the progression of enteropathy remain to be elucidated.
Relationship of small airway chymase-positive mast cells and lung function in severe asthma.	Distal lung inflammation may be important in asthma pathophysiology. The goal of this study was to measure cellular inflammation in the large airway and four distal lung regions (small airway inner and outer wall, alveolar attachments, and peripheral alveolar tissue) and to correlate the specific inflammatory cells with several lung function parameters. Sections of concurrently obtained endobronchial and transbronchial/surgical biopsy tissue from 20 individuals with severe asthma were immunostained for T-lymphocyte, eosinophil, monocyte/macrophage, neutrophil, and two mast cell markers (tryptase and chymase). Specific cell distributions were determined and correlated with lung function measures. The number of inflammatory cells generally increased toward the periphery, but the percentage of T-lymphocytes, eosinophils, monocytes/macrophages, and neutrophils remained similar or decreased from large to small airways. In contrast, mast cell number, percentage, and the chymase-positive phenotype increased in small airway regions. After the analysis was adjusted for multiple comparisons, only chymase-positive mast cells significantly and positively correlated with lung function. Such a relationship was seen only in the small airway/alveolar attachments lung region (r(s) = 0.61-0.89; p </= 0.001 for all correlations). These data suggest that induction of chymase-positive mast cells, particularly in the small airway outer wall/alveolar attachments region, may be protective for lung function in severe asthma.
Identification of residues in the dengue virus type 2 NS2B cofactor that are critical for NS3 protease activation.	Proteolytic processing of the dengue virus polyprotein is mediated by host cell proteases and the virus-encoded NS2B-NS3 two-component protease. The NS3 protease represents an attractive target for the development of antiviral inhibitors. The three-dimensional structure of the NS3 protease domain has been determined, but the structural determinants necessary for activation of the enzyme by the NS2B cofactor have been characterized only to a limited extent. To test a possible functional role of the recently proposed Phix(3)Phi motif in NS3 protease activation, we targeted six residues within the NS2B cofactor by site-specific mutagenesis. Residues Trp62, Ser71, Leu75, Ile77, Thr78, and Ile79 in NS2B were replaced with alanine, and in addition, an L75A/I79A double mutant was generated. The effects of these mutations on the activity of the NS2B(H)-NS3pro protease were analyzed in vitro by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis analysis of autoproteolytic cleavage at the NS2B/NS3 site and by assay of the enzyme with the fluorogenic peptide substrate GRR-AMC. Compared to the wild type, the L75A, I77A, and I79A mutants demonstrated inefficient autoproteolysis, whereas in the W62A and the L75A/I79A mutants self-cleavage appeared to be almost completely abolished. With exception of the S71A mutant, which had a k(cat)/K(m) value for the GRR-AMC peptide similar to that of the wild type, all other mutants exhibited drastically reduced k(cat) values. These results indicate a pivotal function of conserved residues Trp62, Leu75, and Ile79 in the NS2B cofactor in the structural activation of the dengue virus NS3 serine protease.
Effects of vitamin E on the cinnamaldehyde-induced apoptotic mechanism in human PLC/PRF/5 cells.	1. Cinnamaldehyde has been shown to be effective in inducing cell apoptosis in a number of human cancer cells. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of vitamin E on the apoptotic signalling mechanism induced by cinnamaldehyde in human hepatoma PLC/PRF/5 cells. 2. Using the XTT assay, cinnamaldehyde exhibited a powerful antiproliferative effect on PLC/PRF/5 cells. Apoptosis was elicited when cells were treated with 1 micromol/L cinnamaldehyde, as characterized by the appearance of phosphatidylserine on the outer surface of the plasma membrane. 3. The apoptotic effect induced by cinnamaldehyde could be further supported by the release of cytochrome c, Smac/Diablo and Omi/HtrA2 from mitochondria to the cytosol and activation of caspase 3. Cinnamaldehyde also upregulated the expression of pro-apoptotic protein (Bax) and down-regulated the levels of anti-apoptotic proteins, such as Bcl-2 and the inhibitor of apoptosis protein family (X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP), cellular inhibitor of apoptosis protein (cIAP)-1 and cIAP-2). 4. Cinnamaldehyde induces the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in cells. Following the pre-incubation of PLC/PRF/5 cells with anti-oxidants, it was found that 100 micromol/L vitamin E significantly diminished the effect of cinnamaldehyde-induced apoptosis, whereas a lesser effect was seen with on 100 micromol/L N-acetyl-L-cysteine. Vitamin E effectively blocked the release of cytochrome c, Smac/Diablo and Omi/HtrA2 from mitochondria to the cytosol in cells treated with cinnamaldehyde. Vitamin E also markedly suppressed caspase 3 activation. The expression of apoptotic inhibitors (XIAP, cIAP-1, cIAP-2) and anti-apoptotic (Bcl-2) and pro-apoptotic (Bax) proteins was affected by vitamin E pretreatment. 5. Taken together, the results suggest that cinnamaldehyde triggers apoptosis possibly through the mitochondrial pathway. Pretreatment with vitamin E markedly prevented cinnamaldehyde-mediated apoptosis, which was associated with the modulation of XIAP, cIAP-1, cIAP-2, Bcl-2 and Bax protein activity.
Extracellular enzymes serving as virulence factors in nematophagous fungi involved in infection of the host.	Extracellular enzymes, including serine protease, chitinase and collagenase, corresponding to the main chemical constituents of the nematode cuticle and eggshell, have been reported to be involved in the infectious process as virulence factors. This review will focus on the categories, characterization, purification, cloning and potential function of these virulence enzymes and will attempt to provide new insights into the mechanisms of fungal pathogenesis in nematodes.
Tryptase inhibits motility of human spermatozoa mainly by activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway.	We previously localized protease-activated receptor 2 (PAR-2) on human spermatozoa and demonstrated that activation of PAR-2 by the mast cell (MC) product tryptase inhibits sperm motility. Importantly, tryptase-secreting MCs are encountered in the male and female genital tract, implying that MC-spermatozoa interactions may be as yet unrecognized factors affecting sperm fertilizing ability. In order to elucidate how tryptase via activation of PAR-2 acts in human spermatozoa, we studied intracellular signal transduction events.
Coumarin and isocoumarin as serine protease inhibitors.	Serine proteases are attractive targets for the design of enzyme inhibitors since they are involved in the etiology of several diseases. Within the class of serine proteases, HLE is one of the most destructive enzymes in the body. It is implicated in the promotion or exacerbation of a number of diseases including pancreatitis, acute respiratory syndrome, rheumatoid arthritis, atherosclerosis, pulmonary emphysema, and cystic fibrosis. Thrombin, a trypsin-like serine protease, plays a dual role in thrombogenesis, including fibrin formation and platelet activation. As a result, thrombin constitutes one of the most widely studied targets for antithrombotic strategy. Numerous inhibitors of serine proteases have been reported during the past three decades. Among them, coumarin-type molecules displayed a high inhibitory potency towards various serine proteases. At that time, halomethyl dihydrocoumarins have been shown to behave as the first general suicide inhibitors of serine protease. These molecules inhibit several proteases such as human leucocyte elastase, porcine pancreatic elastase, thrombin, urokinase and human plasmin. Isocoumarins are very effective as mechanism-based inhibitors of serine proteases. Pharmacomodulation on the 3-alkoxy-4-chloroisocoumarins and the 3-alkoxy-7-amino-4-chloroisocoumarins led to strong inhibitors of numerous serine proteases such as HLE, human factor XIa and XIIa, thrombin, urokinase and kallikrein. Recently, a series of coumarins characterised by an alkyl, aryl ester, amide, thioester or ketone in the position 3 and an electrophilic chloromethyl moiety in the position 6 have been developed. These compounds were found to be high inhibitors of alpha-chymotrypin, HLE and human thrombin.
Anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions occurring during anaesthesia in France. Seventh epidemiologic survey (January 2001-December 2002)]	Hypersensitivity reactions IgE-mediated (anaphylaxis) or non-IgE-mediated (anaphylactoid) reactions occurring during anaesthesia remain a major cause of concern for anaesthesiologists, since these reactions remain usually unpredictable, may be potentially life-threatening even when appropriately treated. The authors report the results of the last 2-year survey (2001, 2002) of such reactions conducted in France by the GERAP (groupe d'etude des reactions anaphylactoides peranesthesiques), and compare these results with their previous published surveys.
Measurement of activities in two different angiotensin II generating systems, chymase and angiotensin-converting enzyme, in the vitreous fluid of vitreoretinal diseases: a possible involvement of chymase in the pathogenesis of macular hole patients.	To investigate possible involvement of chymase and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) in the pathogenesis of vitreoretinal diseases, both of which are related to the production of angiotensin II.
High responsiveness of HLA-B57-restricted Gag-specific CD8+ T cells in vitro may contribute to the protective effect of HLA-B57 in HIV-infection.	HLA-B57 has been shown to be associated with long-term asymptomatic HIV-1 infection. To investigate the biological mechanism by which the HLA-B57 allele could protect from HIV-1 disease, we studied both the number of CD8(+) T cells as well as CD8(+) T cell responsiveness directed to different HIV-1 Gag peptides presented by HLA-A2, -B8 or -B57. T cells specific for the HLA-B57 peptide KAFSPEVIPMF responded more readily and to a higher extend to antigenic stimulation in vitro than T cells specific for the HLA-A2 peptide SLYNTVATL or the HLA-B8 peptide EIYKRWII. This phenomenon was reproducible with T cells from individuals expressing HLA-B57 in combination with one or both of the other alleles and was persistent during long-term follow-up. Lower reactivity of A2- and B8-restricted T cells was not explained by mutations in the B8- or A2-restricted Gag-peptides. Moreover, no correlation between peptide mutation frequency and IFN-gamma production by the corresponding Gag-specific T cells was observed. In conclusion, functional differences were observed between T cells specific for HIV epitopes derived from the same protein presented by different HLA molecules. B57-restricted KAFSPEVIPMF-specific CD8(+) T cells have relatively high responsiveness, which could contribute to the protective effect of HLA-B57 in HIV infection.
Profiling analysis of differential gene expression between hematogenous and peritoneal metastatic sublines of human pancreatic cancer using a DNA chip.	We established the novel sublines HPC-1H5, HPC-3H4, HPC-4H4, and Panc-1H5, which have a high potential of liver metastasis, and HPC-1P5a, HPC-3P4a, HPC-4P4a, and Panc-1P5a, which have a high potential of peritoneal dissemination, derived from low metastatic HPC-1, HPC-3, HPC-4, and Panc-1cell lines, respectively. To clarify the molecular mechanisms of cancer metastasis and of the different levels of gene expression in a variety of metastatic potentials in pancreatic cancer, we performed a broad analysis of differential gene expression analysis between parental cell lines and metastatic sublines. In comparison with the parental cell lines, 65 and 36 genes were overexpressed and underexpressed in highly liver-metastatic sublines. On the other hand, 43 and 45 genes were overexpressed and underexpressed in highly peritoneal-metastatic sublines. uPAR and Serin protease were overexpressed, and E2A and IGF1R were underexpressed in both metastatic sublines. Hierarchical clustering analysis revealed 22 genes classifying liver, peritoneal metastatic sublines and low-metastatic parental cell lines. These genes might be targeted genes separating those two major metastatic forms after surgery. A greater number of cell line samples and more genes will have to be utilized in future studies in order to understand the involvement of genes in cancer metastasis more thoroughly. However, these results will help to clarify the molecular mechanisms of pancreatic cancer metastasis.
Fluorescently labeled inhibitors detect localized serine protease activities in Drosophila melanogaster pole cells, embryos, and ovarian egg chambers.	Serine proteases are typically synthesized as proteolytically inactive zymogens that often become activated in a limited and highly localized manner. Consequently, determination of the spatial and temporal activation pattern of these molecules is of great importance to understanding the biological processes that they mediate. Until only recently, the tools to conveniently address the question of where and when serine proteases are active within complex tissues have been lacking. In order to detect spatially restricted serine protease activities in Drosophila embryos and ovaries we introduce a technique using fluorescent synthetic and protein-based inhibitors. With this approach we have detected a novel serine protease activity with a relative mobility of 37 kDa, localized to the surface of pole cells, the germ-line precursors, in embryos between nuclear cycles 11 and 14 in development. A second novel cell-specific protease activity was localized to the tissues of early gastrulating embryos. Microinjection of inhibitors into the perivitelline space of stage 2 embryos perturbed normal embryonic development. Fluorescein-conjugated chymotrypsin inhibitor and Bowman-Birk inhibitor labeled protease activity localized to the oocyte-somatic follicle cell interface of the developing egg chamber. Our results suggest that this technique holds promise to identify new spatially restricted activities in adult Drosophila tissues and developing embryos.
Mechanisms of superior anti-tumor cytotoxic response of interleukin 15-induced lymphokine-activated killer cells.	Interleukin (IL) 15 is one of the main cytokines controlling cytotoxic lymphocyte survival and growth. Despite its receptor and functional similarity to IL-2, IL-15 affects a wider target cell population and utilizes different mechanisms in cell activation. The role of IL-15 in lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cell generation in vitro and potential mechanisms of cytotoxicity compared with equivalent low concentration of IL-2 with or without mitogens (phytohemoglutinin (PHA) and anti-CD3 antibody) have been investigated in this study. IL-15 treatment resulted in moderate cell proliferation over 7 days, whereas IL-2 treatment was associated with decreased cell numbers. Unlike IL-2 in combination with mitogens, IL-15 caused increases in both cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) and CD56 LAK cells, particularly cytokine-induced killer and cytolytic natural killer T-cell (CNK-T) subpopulations, which are known to be highly effective in cytotoxicity. IL-15 also increased overall perforin and tumor necrosis factor-alpha expression and more prominently in CTLs. Consequently, IL-15 resulted in superior cytotoxicity against two different NK-sensitive (human K-562 and murine YAC-1) and LAK-sensitive (human Daudi and Raji) cell lines compared with other cytokine combinations. There was also no contribution of mitogens to IL-2-induced cytotoxicity. In conclusion, IL-15 at the concentration of 10 ng/mL used in this study causes moderate proliferation and superior cytotoxicity of LAK cells in vitro that was associated with induction of a specific LAK cell subpopulation profile and related cellular killing mechanisms. These results are encouraging for potential use of IL-15 as part of immunotherapy.
Spink5-deficient mice mimic Netherton syndrome through degradation of desmoglein 1 by epidermal protease hyperactivity.	Mutations in SPINK5, encoding the serine protease inhibitor LEKTI, cause Netherton syndrome, a severe autosomal recessive genodermatosis. Spink5(-/-) mice faithfully replicate key features of Netherton syndrome, including altered desquamation, impaired keratinization, hair malformation and a skin barrier defect. LEKTI deficiency causes abnormal desmosome cleavage in the upper granular layer through degradation of desmoglein 1 due to stratum corneum tryptic enzyme and stratum corneum chymotryptic enzyme-like hyperactivity. This leads to defective stratum corneum adhesion and resultant loss of skin barrier function. Profilaggrin processing is increased and implicates LEKTI in the cornification process. This work identifies LEKTI as a key regulator of epidermal protease activity and degradation of desmoglein 1 as the primary pathogenic event in Netherton syndrome.
Dendritic cells generated from acute myeloid leukemia (AML) blasts maintain the expression of immunogenic leukemia associated antigens.	Recently, the focus is on new specific immunotherapies for AML such as cellular therapies employing dendritic cells (DCs) generated from AML blasts. AML-DCs express constitutionally leukemia-associated antigens (LAAs) present in AML blasts they are generated from. Here we investigated whether the generation of AML-DCs would alter the expression level of LAAs. Moreover, we evaluated the presence of HLA and costimulatory molecules on AML blasts versus AML-DCs. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was performed for the following LAAs: preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME), the receptor for hyaluronic acid mediated motility (RHAMM/CD168), Wilms' tumor gene 1 (WT-1) and proteinase 3. The expression of HLA-ABC, HLA-DR, CD40, CD80, CD83 and CD86 was evaluated by flow cytometry. RHAMM protein expression was evaluated by immunocytochemistry, recognition of AML-DCs by PRAME epitope-specific T cells was evaluated in a chromium-release assay. Quantitative real-time PCR for AML-DCs versus AML blasts showed an alteration in mRNA expression of LAAs. An elevated PCR signal for PRAME was detected in 7/12 AML-DC preparations. 6/12 AML-DC preparations showed a significant upregulation of the PCR signal for RHAMM. A stronger WT-1 and proteinase-3 signal was observed in PCR for only 2/12 and 1/12 AML-DCs , respectively. All preparations showed a strong expression of at least one of the LAAs examined. As demonstrated by flow cytometry, AML-DCs strongly upregulated costimulatory molecules like CD40 and CD80 in comparison with AML blasts. AML-DCs tested positive for RHAMM protein. PRAME positive AML-DCs were recognized by specific T cells. AML-DCs might constitute a powerful tool in immunotherapy for AML. Real-time PCR allows a quick and quantitative assessment of immunologically relevant LAA expression with only 10(5) DCs and might be helpful for the decision whether the AML-DC vaccination strategy is favourable or not.
Targeting the renin-angiotensin system: what's new?	The renin-angiotensin system is a key target for drugs combating cardiovascular disease. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin receptor type-1 (AT1 receptor) blockers are well known. However, angiotensin peptides can be generated through a number of pathways besides the classic system. This review outlines some of these pathways, their relation to the classic system and the likely effect of inhibiting them. Renin is still the key enzyme in angiotensin peptide generation and seems to be the only route to angiotensin I formation in vivo. Renin inhibitors may have some advantages in terms of specificity. Also, by blocking angiotensin I generation, the production of downstream bioactive angiotensin I metabolites should also be blocked. Chymase, a mast cell serine protease, cleaves angiotensin I to produce angiotensin II and may be important at sites of inflammation such as atherosclerotic plaque. Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), a carboxypeptidase structurally related to ACE but resistant to ACE inhibitors, has a protective effect on cardiac function. Neutral endopeptidase 24.11 breaks down both atrial natriuretic peptide and angiotensin II. Inhibiting it potentiates the action of endogenous atrial peptide but only affects circulating angiotensin II when basal levels are above normal. Dual inhibitors of ACE and endopeptidase 24.11 may be of value where there is both sodium retention and increased angiotensin II. Targeting the renin-angiotensin system by gene therapy or antibody treatment may provide a longer-term treatment for hypertension.
Light-induced conformational changes of cyanobacterial phytochrome Cph1 probed by limited proteolysis and autophosphorylation.	Photoreceptor chromoproteins undergo light-induced conformational changes that result in a modulation of protein interaction and enzymatic activity. Bacterial phytochromes such as Cph1 from the cyanobacterium Synechocystis PCC 6803 are light-regulated histidine kinases in which the light signal is transferred from the N-terminal chromophore module to the C-terminal kinase module. In this study, purified recombinant Cph1 was subjected to limited proteolysis using trypsin and endoproteinase Glu-C (V8). Cleavage sites of chromopeptide fragments were determined by MALDI-TOF and micro-HPLC on-line with tandem mass spectrometry in an ion trap mass spectrometer. Trypsin produced three major chromopeptides, termed F1 (S56 to R520), F2 (T64 to R472), and F3 (L81 to R472). F1 was produced only in the far-red absorbing form Pfr within 15 min and remained stable up to >1 h; F2 and F3 were obtained in the red-light absorbing form Pr within ca. 5-10 min. When F1 was photoconverted to Pr in the presence of trypsin, this fragment degraded to F2 and F3 within 1-2 min. On size exclusion chromatography, F1 eluted as a dimer in the Pfr and as a monomer in the Pr form, whereas F2 and F3 behaved always as monomers, irrespective of the light conditions. These and other results are discussed in the context of light-dependent subunit interactions, in which amino acids 473-520 within the PHY domain are required for chromophore-module subunit interaction within the homodimer. V8 proteolysis yielded five major chromopeptides, F4 (T17 to N449), F5 (T17 to E335), F6 (T17 to E323), F7 (unknown sequence), and F8 (tentatively L121 to E323). F6 and F8 were formed in the Pr form, whereas F4, F5, and F7 were preferentially formed in the Pfr form. Three amino acids next to specific cleavage sites, R520, R472, and E323, were altered by site-directed mutagenesis. The mutants were analyzed by UV-vis spectroscopy, size exclusion chromatography, and autophosphorylation. Histidine kinase activity was low in R472A, R520P, and R520A; in all mutants, the ratio of phosphorylation intensity between Pr and Pfr was reduced. Thus, light regulation of autophosphorylation is negatively affected in all mutants. In R472P, E323P, and E323D, the phosphorylation intensity of the Pfr form exceeded that of the wild-type control. This result shows that the histidine kinase activity of Cph1 is actively inhibited by photoconversion into Pfr.
Mechanism of transcriptional silencing in yeast.	Transcriptional silencing is a phenomenon in which the transcription of a gene by RNA polymerase II or III is repressed or not, dependent only on the gene's chromosomal location. Two prevailing models exist for silencing: (1) steric hindrance in silenced chromatin inhibits the binding of upstream activator proteins or polymerase or (2) silencing primarily blocks steps downstream of transcription preinitiation complex formation. Here, we test these models quantitatively for the case of SIR2-dependent silencing in budding yeast, using foreign and endogenous reporter proteins, at transgenic and endogenous loci. Our results contradict both models and show instead that transcriptional silencing at several URA3 transgenes, and at the naturally silenced endogenous HMRa and HMLalpha mating type genes, acts downstream of gene activator protein binding to strongly reduce the occupancy of TFIIB, RNA polymerase II, and TFIIE at the silenced promoters.
A proteolytic cascade of kallikreins in the stratum corneum.	Serine proteases belonging to the kallikrein group may play a central role in desquamation. We have identified human kallikreins 5, 7, and 14 (hK5, hK7, hK14) in catalytically active form in stratum corneum. All three enzymes are produced as inactive precursors. In this work, we prepared recombinant enzymes and enzyme precursors and characterized the catalytic properties of hK5 and hK14. With peptide substrates hK5 and hK14 both showed trypsin-like specificity and alkaline pH-optima. For the substrates tested, hK14 was superior to hK5 as regards maximum catalytic rate as well as catalytic efficiency. hK5, but not hK14, could activate pro-hK7 in a reaction which was optimal at pH 5-7. hK5 could activate its own precursor as well as pro-hK14. This was in contrast to hK14, which could activate pro-hK5 but not its own precursor. The activation of pro-hK5 either by auto-activation or by hK14 occurred at maximum rate at neutral or weakly alkaline pH, whereas activation of pro-hK14 by hK5 was optimal at pH 6-7. We conclude that the enzymes studied may be part of a protease cascade in the stratum corneum, and that the observed pH effects may have physiological relevance.
Effects of glycolic acid on desquamation-regulating proteinases in human stratum corneum.	In order to investigate the mechanism of glycolic acid (GA) function in human stratum corneum, we monitored changes in cathepsin D-like (CD) and chymotrypsin-like (SCCE) proteinases for 3 weeks following topical GA application (50% w/v, pH 0.9) for 30 min to human skin. In the early phase, weakened stratum corneum cohesion in the lower layers was observed on day 2 and the amount of active CD in the upper layer of the stratum corneum was significantly decreased from 30 min until day 2, whereas that in the lower layer remained normal. In contrast, the amount of active SCCE showed no change during the experimental period. The surface pH of the stratum corneum drastically decreased to pH 2 at 30 min and slightly recovered to around pH 3 until 1 day after treatment. From 9 to 19 days, a decrease in corneocyte cell area and a remarkable long-term increase in the amount of active CD in the upper layer were observed. In an in vitro study, the activities of desquamation-regulating proteinases were shown to have remarkably increased at around pH 3, due to activation of CD at its optimal pH. These results suggest that GA functions via at least two different mechanisms, acute activation of CD in the lower layer by acidification around pH 3, along with inactivation of CD in the upper layer, and long-term enhancement of de novo CD production in the few weeks following GA treatment.
Requirements for extracellular metabolism of pulmonary surfactant: tentative identification of serine protease.	Pulmonary alveolar surfactant is secreted by the alveolar epithelium in the form of lamellar bodylike structures that evolve sequentially into tubular myelin and vesicular forms that can be separated by centrifugation. Using an in vitro procedure by which the extracellular metabolism of pulmonary surfactant can be mimicked, namely cyclic variation in surface area, we previously reported that serine protease activity, which we called "convertase," was required for the conversion of tubular myelin to the vesicular form. In the present studies we explored the biochemical requirements of this activity and sought the enzyme in alveolar products. Convertase activity has unusual requirements; in addition to being dependent on repetitive variations in surface area (cycling), it requires the presence of a high g fraction of lung secretions that is heat stable and not inhibitable by diisopropyl fluorophosphate (DFP) or alpha 1-antitrypsin, both typical serine protease inhibitors. The enzyme does not require calcium ions and has a pH optimum of 7.4. Convertase appears to be a component of surfactant itself because the ability of purified surfactant to convert to the vesicular form on cycling is impaired by pretreating it with DFP. A protein of Mr 75,000 that reacts with DFP and is heat sensitive was found in alveolar lavage, lamellar body preparations, and lung homogenate. It copurifies with lung surfactant in sucrose gradients. A similar DFP-reactive protein was observed in stable human neoplastic peripheral airway cell lines that express type II properties, suggesting that it may be a product of type II cells. We tentatively conclude that surfactant convertase is a 75,000 serine protease that is closely associated with surfactant phospholipid and that may be a product of alveolar type II cells.
Analysis of the five glycosylation sites of human alpha 1-acid glycoprotein.	Orosomucoid (OMD) contains complex bi-, tri- and tetra-antennary glycan chains. Subfractionation of OMD into three molecular variants using concanavalin A lectin chromatography is based on variations in these complex structures. Standard h.p.l.c. profiles have been developed to analyse the percentage and distribution of the glycoforms present at each glycosylation site in OMD and its molecular variants. The ability to quantify the glycoforms present at each site allows us to extend the earlier results of others and resolve the remaining questions concerning the glycan structures of these variants. Most significantly, the proportions of bi-, tri- and tetra-antennary chains differ at each site for the three molecular variants. The most strongly retained variant from concanavalin A is uniquely capable of possessing biantennary chains at all five sites, whereas the unretained variant is completely devoid of biantennary chains. Only glycosylation site II of the five present is 100% biantennary in the retained and weakly retained variants. In addition, the two gene products of OMD were differentially glycosylated. Molecular masses of the glycoforms were verified by matrix-assisted u.v. laser desorption mass spectrometry. On the basis of the site distribution of oligosaccharides in the variants, efforts were made to understand the factors that control the processing of the carbohydrate chains in OMD. The results indicate that the 'site-directed' model of processing offers the most consistent explanation for the structures seen at the individual glycosylation sites of OMD.
SAP controls the cytolytic activity of CD8+ T cells against EBV-infected cells.	The adaptor protein SAP regulates signaling through signaling lymphocytic activation molecule (SLAM)-family receptors expressed on T and natural killer (NK) cells. In patients affected by X-linked lymphoproliferative (XLP) disease, mutations in the SH2D1A gene result in defective lytic activity. However, the mechanism by which SAP controls cytotoxic activity remains unclear. T-cell-receptor (TCR) activation of CD8(+) cytotoxic T cells (CTLs) results in down-regulation of SAP, suggesting that this protein is involved in early activation events. Here, we show that SAP-deficient CTLs from patients with XLP and hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) display a specific lytic defect against autologous and allogeneic Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-positive B cells. This defect is associated with the defective polarization of 2B4, perforin, and lipid rafts at the contact area of CTLs with EBV-positive targets. Blockade of 2B4 in normal CTLs reproduces the defects in lysis and polarization observed in SAP-deficient CTLs. Expression and regulation of the SLAM-family receptors SLAM, CD84, and 2B4, as well as the lytic effectors perforin and granzyme-B are normal in SAP-deficient CTLs. In addition, TCR stimulation leads to normal proliferation and production of interleukin 2 (IL-2), IL-4, and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma). These results demonstrate that the SAP/2B4 pathway plays a key role in CTL lytic activity against EBV-positive targets by promoting the polarization of the lytic machinery.
Mapping the lipid-exposed regions in the Torpedo californica nicotinic acetylcholine receptor.	To identify regions of the Torpedo nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AchR) interacting with membrane lipid, we have used 1-azidopyrene (1-AP) as a fluorescent, photoactivatable hydrophobic probe. For AchR-rich membranes equilibrated with 1-AP, irradiation at 365 nm resulted in covalent incorporation in all four AchR subunits with each of the subunits incorporating approximately equal amounts of label. To identify the regions of the AchR subunits that incorporated 1-AP, subunits were digested with Staphylococcus aureus V8 protease and trypsin, and the resulting fragments were separated by SDS-PAGE followed by reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography. N-terminal sequence analysis identified the hydrophobic segments M1, M3, and M4 within each subunit as containing the sites of labeling. The labeling pattern of 1-AP in the alpha-subunit was compared with that of another hydrophobic photoactivatable probe, 3-trifluoromethyl-3-(m-[125I]iodophenyl)diazirine ([125I]TID). The nonspecific component of [125I]TID labeling [White, B., Howard, S., Cohen, S. G., & Cohen, J.B. (1991) J. Biol. Chem. 266, 21595-21607] was restricted to the same regions as those labeled by 1-AP. The [125I]TID residues labeled in the hydrophobic segment M4 were identified as Cys-412, Met-415, Cys-418, Thr-422, and Val-425. The periodicity and distribution of labeled residues establish that the M4 region is alpha-helical in nature and indicate that M4 presents a broad face to membrane lipid.
On the molecular mechanism of light-induced D1 protein degradation in photosystem II core particles.	The mechanism of D1 protein degradation was investigated during photoinhibitory illumination of isolated photosystem II core preparations. The studies revealed that a proteolytic activity resides within the photosystem II core complex. A relationship between the inhibition of D1 protein degradation and the binding of the highly specific serine protease inhibitor diisopropyl fluorophosphate to isolated complexes of photosystem II was observed, evidence that this protease is of the serine type. Using radiolabeled inhibitor, it was shown that the binding site, representing the active serine of the catalytic site, is located on a 43-kDa polypeptide, probably the chlorophyll a protein CP43. The protease is apparently active in darkness, with the initiation of breakdown being dependent on high light-induced substrate activation. The proteolysis, which has an optimum at pH 7.5, gives rise to primary degradation fragments of 23 and 16 kDa. In addition, D1 protein fragments of 14, 13, and 10 kDa were identified. Experiments with phosphate-labeled D1 protein and sequence-specific antisera showed that the 23- and 16-kDa fragments originate from the N- and C-termini, respectively, suggesting a primary cleavage of the D1 protein at the outer thylakoid surface in the region between transmembrane helices D and E.
Reelin signaling is necessary for a specific step in the migration of hindbrain efferent neurons.	The cytoarchitecture of the hindbrain results from precise and co-ordinated sequences of neuronal migrations. Here, we show that reelin, an extracellular matrix protein involved in neuronal migration during CNS development, is necessary for an early, specific step in the migration of several hindbrain nuclei. We identified two cell populations not previously known to be affected in reeler mutants that show a common migratory defect: the olivocochlear efferent neurons and the facial visceral motor nucleus. In control embryos, these cells migrate first toward a lateral position within the neural tube, and then parallel to the glial cell processes, to a ventral position where they settle close to the pial surface. In reeler mutants, the first migration is not affected, but the neurons are unable to reach the pial surface and remain in an ectopic position. Indeed, this is the first evidence that the migration of specific hindbrain nuclei can be divided into two parts: a reelin-independent and a reelin-dependent migration. We also show that reelin is expressed at high levels at the final destination of the migratory process, while the reelin intracellular effector Dab1 was expressed by cell groups that included the two populations affected. Mice mutant at the Dab1 locus, called scrambler, exhibit the same phenotype, a failure of final migration. However, examination of mice lacking both reelin receptors, ApoER2 and VLDLR, did not reveal the same phenotype, suggesting involvement of an additional reelin-binding receptor. In the hindbrain, reelin signaling might alter the adhesive properties of efferent neurons and their ability to respond to directional cues, as has been suggested for the migration of olfactory bulb precursors.
Dynamics of cytomegalovirus (CMV)-specific T cells in HIV-1-infected individuals progressing to AIDS with CMV end-organ disease.	Since cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection can cause serious clinical complications in immunocompromised individuals, we assessed cellular immune requirements for protection against CMV end-organ disease (CMV-EOD) in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection.
Plasminogen/plasmin regulates c-fos and egr-1 expression via the MEK/ERK pathway.	In this study, we showed that plasminogen (Plg) and plasmin (Pla) bind to lysine-binding sites on cell surface and trigger a signaling pathway that activates the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) MEK and ERK1/2, which in turn leads to the expression of the primary response genes c-fos and early growth response gene egr-1. Our data show that the Plg/Pla-stimulated steady-state mRNA levels of both genes reached a maximum by 30 min and then returned to basal levels by 1h. The gene induction was sensitive to both pharmacological and genetic inhibition of MEK. Leupeptin, a serine protease inhibitor, suppressed Pla but not Plg-induced c-fos and egr-1 expression, emphasizing the role played by the serine protease activity associated with Pla. Pre-incubation with cholera toxin completely blocked the Plg/Pla-induced gene expression, suggesting that another signaling pathway, which recruits G protein-coupled receptors, may also be involved. Furthermore, Plg/Pla also stimulated AP-1 and EGR-1 DNA-binding activities, which were abrogated by pharmacological inhibition of MEK. Altogether, these results suggest that Plg/Pla stimulates c-fos and egr-1 expression via activation of the MEK/ERK pathway.
Lytic enzyme, labiase for a broad range of Gram-positive bacteria and its application to analyze functional DNA/RNA.	The lytic activity of labiase and achromopeptidase for bacterial DNA/RNA extraction were compared. Rapid lysis of many bacterial strains was observed with labiase followed by SDS treatment. Both labiase and achromopeptidase showed high lytic activity against bacterial strains with the A1alpha chemotype (e.g., Aerococcus viridans) and the A3alpha chemotype (e.g., Staphylococcus epidermidis) for cell wall peptidoglycan structures. The lytic activity of labiase was higher than that of achromopeptidase against strains with the A1gamma chemotype (e.g., Bacillus subtilis). The activity of labiase was not detrimentally affected with increasing NaCl concentration. Labiase lysates were successfully used for rapid extraction of DNA and RNA, whereas achromopeptidase lysates degraded RNA. The DNA and RNA obtained were successfully used for 16S rRNA amplification and real-time RT-PCR detection. It is concluded that labiase is useful for rapid lysis of a wide variety of Gram-positive bacteria and can be used for DNA/RNA isolation protocols.
Purpuric adult T-cell leukaemia/lymphoma: expansion of unusual CD4/CD8 double-negative malignant T cells expressing CCR4 but bearing the cytotoxic molecule granzyme B.	A 78-year-old Japanese woman with adult T-cell leukaemia/lymphoma (ATL) presented with an unusual purpuric and erythematous eruption on the face and trunk. Immunohistochemical and flow cytometric analyses showed that the tumour cells were CD4/CD8 double-negative, and expressed CCR4 T-helper (Th) 2 chemokine receptors. Despite these features, the cells aberrantly produced granzyme B, which is a cytotoxic molecule usually produced by CD8(+) cytotoxic T cells, natural killer cells, or occasionally by Th1 cells. In a purpuric lesion, extravasation of erythrocytes was associated with an infiltrate of these cytotoxic tumour cells. Our case suggests phenotypical and functional heterogeneity of tumour cells in ATL, which may be closely related to the clinical appearance of the skin eruption.
The two major oligomeric forms of human mannan-binding lectin: chemical characterization, carbohydrate-binding properties, and interaction with MBL-associated serine proteases.	Mannan-binding lectin (MBL) is an oligomeric C-type lectin assembled from homotrimeric structural units that binds to neutral carbohydrates on microbial surfaces. It forms individual complexes with MBL-associated serine proteases (MASP)-1, -2, -3 and a truncated form of MASP-2 (MAp19) and triggers the lectin pathway of complement through MASP-2 activation. To characterize the oligomerization state of the two major MBL forms present in human serum, both proteins were analyzed by mass spectrometry. Mass values of 228,098 +/- 170 Da (MBL-I) and 304,899 +/- 229 Da (MBL-II) were determined for the native proteins, whereas reduction of both species yielded a single chain with an average mass of 25,340 +/- 18 Da. This demonstrates that MBL-I and -II contain 9 and 12 disulfide-linked chains, respectively, and therefore are trimers and tetramers of the structural unit. As shown by surface plasmon resonance spectroscopy, trimeric and tetrameric MBL bound to immobilized mannose-BSA and N-acetylglucosamine-BSA with comparable K(D) values (2.2 and 0.55 nM and 1.2 and 0.96 nM, respectively). However, tetrameric MBL exhibited significantly higher maximal binding capacity and lower dissociation rate constants for both carbohydrates. In contrast, no significant difference was detected for binding of the recombinant MASPs or MAp19 to immobilized trimeric or tetrameric MBL. As shown by gel filtration, both MBL species formed 1:2 complexes with MASP-3 or MAp19. These results provide the first precise analysis of the major human MBL oligomers. The oligomerization state of MBL has a direct effect on its carbohydrate-binding properties, but no influence on the interaction with the MASPs.
Effect of mutations in the human immunoglobulin A1 (IgA1) hinge on its susceptibility to cleavage by diverse bacterial IgA1 proteases.	Components of the human immunoglobulin A1 (IgA1) hinge governing sensitivity to cleavage by bacterial IgA1 proteases were investigated. Recombinant antibodies with distinct hinge mutations were constructed from a hybrid comprised of human IgA2 bearing half of the human IgA1 hinge region. This hybrid antibody and all the mutant antibodies derived from it were resistant to cleavage by the IgA1 proteases from Streptococcus oralis and Streptococcus mitis biovar 1 strains but were cleaved to various degrees by those of Streptococcus pneumoniae, some Streptococcus sanguis strains, and the type 1 and 2 IgA1 proteases of Haemophilus influenzae, Neisseria meningitidis, and Neisseria gonorrhoeae. Remarkably, those proteases that cleave a Pro-Ser peptide bond in the wild-type IgA1 hinge were able to cleave mutant antibodies lacking a Pro-Ser peptide bond in the hinge, and those that cleave a Pro-Thr peptide bond in the wild-type IgA1 hinge were able to cleave mutant antibodies devoid of a Pro-Thr peptide bond in the hinge. Thus, the enzymes can cleave alternatives to their preferred postproline peptide bond when such a bond is unavailable. Peptide sequence analysis of a representative antibody digestion product confirmed this conclusion. The presence of a cleavable peptide bond near the CH2 end of the hinge appeared to result in greater cleavage than if the scissile bond was at the CH1 end of the hinge. Proline-to-serine substitution at residue 230 in a hinge containing potentially cleavable Pro-Ser and Pro-Thr peptide bonds increased the resistance of the antibody to cleavage by many IgA1 proteases.
Gene expression and regulation of nerve growth factor in atopic dermatitis mast cells and the human mast cell line-1.	The gene expression and regulation of nerve growth factor (NGF) in atopic dermatitis (AD) and the human mast cell line (HMC)-1 was investigated at the molecular level. NGF-stimulation of HMC-1 cells resulted in increases in tryptase activity and histamine contents, paralleled by an increase of tryptase and histamine at the transcriptional level. Also, an increased expression of NGF was found in AD lesions, in association with increased systemic NGF plasma levels. Further cutaneous sources for increased NGF levels were keratinocytes and fibroblasts. These findings demonstrate an increased expression of NGF in AD and effects on tryptase and histamine. Mast cells may be major mediators of neurotrophin effects in AD.
Differential regulation of granzyme and perforin in effector and memory T cells following smallpox immunization.	Primary immunization of healthy adults with vaccinia virus induces a local vesicle or "take" in the majority of vaccinees that previously has been shown to correlate with protection against smallpox. However, the immunologic mechanisms underlying this protective response in humans are not well characterized. We have studied human CD8+ T cells for the expression patterns of phenotypic markers and cytolytic effector molecules before and after primary smallpox immunization using nine-color polychromatic flow cytometry. One month after immunization, vaccinees developed vaccinia virus-specific CD8+ T cells with an effector cell phenotype containing both granzyme A and granzyme B. One year after immunization, we found a significant decrease in granzyme B containing cells and an increased memory cell phenotype in virus-specific CD8+ T cells. Perforin was rarely expressed directly ex vivo, but was highly expressed after Ag-specific activation in vitro. Together, these data suggest an important role for effector CD8+ T cells in controlling poxvirus infection, and have implications for our understanding of human CD8+ T cell differentiation.
Serine protease activity, bovine sperm protease, 66 kDa (BSp66), is present in hamster sperm and is involved in sperm-zona interaction.	Bovine sperm protease, 66 kDa (BSp66) is a serine protease previously characterized in bovine spermatozoa. Like other proteases, it may be present in sperm from other mammalian species different from bovine, playing a role in the fertilization process. In this study, we looked for BSp66 in hamster spermatozoa using heterologous antibodies against bovine BSp66. An immunoreactive protein was detected by Western blotting in mature and immature sperm. The detected protein had two isoforms similar to the ones reported in bovine sperm. Furthermore, indirect immune detection by fluorescence and electron microscopy assays, showed BSp66 signal at the acrosomal region similar to bovine sperm. As it was determined in bovine sperm, the acrosomal reaction displays the antigen within the acrosomal content. When live hamster sperm was incubated with polyclonal antibody against bovine BSp66 a decrease in the number of sperm bound to zona pellucida in homologous IVF and an impairment of head-head agglutination, were observed. These results suggest that a protease homologous to bovine BSp66 is present in golden hamster spermatozoa, with a conserved molecular mass and cellular location. Moreover, hamster BSp66 is probably involved in zona pellucida recognition.
Serum calcium-decreasing factor (caldecrin) from porcine pancreas has proteolytic activity which has no clear connection with the calcium decrease.	We purified a serum calcium-decreasing factor, which showed chymotrypsin-like protease activity, from porcine pancreas to homogeneity. The factor administered to mice intravenously at a dose of 20 micrograms/kg b.w. decreased serum calcium by 15%. Treatment of the factor with the serine protease inhibitor, PMSF, caused a leftward shift in the dose-response curve, showing strengthened activity. It also caused a decrease in serum calcium and hydroxyproline levels in rats. At a dose of 10 ng/ml, the factor inhibited 45Ca release from cultured fetal long bone stimulated by parathyroid hormone (PTH) and PTH-related protein, but not by interleukin-1 alpha, prostaglandin E1 and 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D3. No other well-known pancreatic proteases had these effects. In view of the results of experiments using protease inhibitor and pancreatic proteases, and in view of the specificity of this factor in vitro, we propose that the factor exerts its serum calcium-decreasing activity most probably not through proteolytic degradation of PTH, but through an inhibition of PTH action on bones by a yet undefined mechanism.
Abnormal fractionation of beta-lactamase in Escherichia coli: evidence for an interaction with the inner membrane in the absence of a leader peptide.	beta-Lactamase with the -20 to -1 region of the leader peptide deleted (almost complete deletion of the leader peptide) [delta(-20,-1) beta-lactamase] was released from Escherichia coli cells by osmotic shock. Fractionation of the cells by conversion to spheroplasts and protease accessibility experiments further indicated that a portion of the protein may be bound to the cytoplasmic membrane and be partially exposed in the periplasmic space. Expression of delta(-20,-1) beta-lactamase conferred a 25-fold increase in the 50% lethal dose for ampicillin relative to that for controls, thus confirming that a small amount (about 2%) of the active protein is completely exported from the cytoplasm. These results suggest that even in the absence of a leader peptide, mature beta-lactamase is able to interact with the cytoplasmic membrane and be translocated into the periplasmic space, albeit with a low efficiency.
Substrate preferences of glutamic-acid-specific endopeptidases assessed by synthetic peptide substrates based on intramolecular fluorescence quenching.	The substrate preferences of the easily available Glu/Asp-specific enzymes from Staphyllococcus aureus (V8), Bacillus licheniformis and Streptomyces griseus have been extensively investigated using a series of synthetic peptide substrates, containing an N-terminal anthraniloyl group and a 3-nitrotyrosine close to the C-terminus, allowing the fluorimetric monitoring of substrate hydrolysis by the decrease in intramolecular quenching. All three enzymes hydrolysed Glu-Xaa peptide bonds approximately 1000-fold faster than Asp-Xaa bonds and they are consequently more appropriately termed Glu-specific enzymes. The difference in kcat/Km for the hydrolysis of substrates with Glu and Asp is primarily due to a difference in kcat. The enzymes appear to hydrolyse all types of Glu-Xaa bonds, although those with Xaa as Asp and, in particular, Xaa as Pro, are hydrolysed with very low rates. The influence of the nature of the amino acid residues at the substrate positions P2, P3, P4, P'1 and P'2 has been determined and it is shown that the enzyme from S. griseus exhibits the most narrow substrate preference. The results are useful in connection with fragmentation of proteins for sequencing purposes as well as for cleavage of fusion proteins.
Role of the amino-terminal domain of bacteriophage phi 29 connector in DNA binding and packaging.	The connector of bacteriophage phi 29 is required for prohead assembly, binds DNA, and drives DNA packaging into viral proheads. Limited proteolysis of the connector protein with endoproteinase Glu-C from Staphylococcus aureus V8 and chymotrypsin showed that a domain of the NH2-terminal region is involved in DNA binding and in the subsequent packaging into preformed proheads, but not in prohead assembly. Mutants in specific amino acids of the NH2-terminal domain, obtained by directed mutagenesis techniques, showed that the Ala1-Arg2-Lys3-Arg4 region of the connector is absolutely necessary for DNA packaging into the proheads as well as for efficient DNA binding.
Distribution of chymase-containing mast cells in human bronchi.	Mast cell chymase stimulates secretion from cultured airway gland serous cells and hydrolyzes bronchoactive peptides in vitro. To explore the likelihood of these interactions occurring in situ, we examined the distribution and concentration of chymase-containing mast cells near glands and smooth muscle of major human bronchi from eight individuals without known airway disease. Total airway mast cells and the subset of mast cells containing chymase were detected by staining for methylene blue metachromasia and chloroacetate esterase activity, respectively. The percentage of chymase-containing mast cells was found to differ strikingly among bronchial tissue compartments. Near glands, for example, the concentration of chymase-positive mast cells (640 +/- 120 cells/mm3) was 73 +/- 9% that of total mast cells (910 +/- 130 cells/mm3), whereas in smooth muscle the concentration of chymase-positive mast cells (450 +/- 200 cells/mm3) was only 14 +/- 4% that of total mast cells (2920 +/- 620 cells/mm3). Of all chymase-containing mast cells in the airway subepithelium, 30 +/- 4% were located within 20 microns of submucosal glands. Although the percentage of chymase-containing cells varied, the absolute concentration of chymase-containing mast cells was similar in all compartments. These results reveal a differential distribution of mast cell subpopulations in human airway and suggest that mast cells containing chymase are near gland and smooth muscle targets.
Further studies on Pseudomonas aeruginosa LasA: analysis of specificity.	Full elastolytic activity in Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a result of the combined activities of elastase, alkaline proteinase, and the lasA gene product, LasA. The results of this study demonstrate that an active fragment of the LasA protein which is isolated from the culture supernatant fraction is capable of degrading elastin in the absence of elastase, thus showing that LasA is a second elastase produced by this organism. In addition, it is shown that LasA-mediated enhancement of elastolysis results from the separate activities of LasA and elastase upon elastin. The LasA protein does not affect the secretion or activation of a proelastase as previously proposed in other studies. Furthermore, LasA has specific proteolytic capability, as demonstrated by its ability to cleave beta-casein. Preliminary analysis of beta-casein cleavage in the presence of various protease inhibitors suggests that LasA may be classified as a modified serine protease.
Proteolytic activation of alternative CCR1 ligands in inflammation.	Although chemokines CCL3/MIP-1alpha and CCL5/RANTES are considered to be primary CCR1 ligands in inflammatory responses, alternative CCR1 ligands have also been described. Indeed, four such chemokines, CCL6/C10/MIP-related protein-1, CCL9/MIP-1gamma/MIP-related protein-2, CCL15/MIP-1delta/hemofiltrate CC chemokine-2/leukotactin-1, and CCL23/CKbeta8/myeloid progenitor inhibitory factor-1, are unique in possessing a separately encoded N-terminal domain of 16-20 residues and two additional precisely positioned cysteines that form a third disulfide bridge. In vitro, these four chemokines are weak CCR1 agonists, but potency can be increased up to 1000-fold by engineered or expression-associated N-terminal truncations. We examined the ability of proinflammatory proteases, human cell supernatants, or physiological fluids to perform N-terminal truncations of these chemokines and thereby activate their functions. Remarkably, most of the proteases and fluids removed the N-terminal domains from all four chemokines, but were relatively unable to cleave the truncated forms further. The truncated chemokines exhibited up to 1000-fold increases in CCR1-mediated signaling and chemotaxis assays in vitro. In addition, N-terminally truncated CCL15/MIP-1delta and CCL23/CKbeta8, but not CCL3/MIP-1alpha or CCL5/RANTES, were detected at relatively high levels in synovial fluids from rheumatoid arthritis patients. These data suggest that alternative CCR1 ligands are converted into potent chemoattractants by proteases released during inflammatory responses in vivo.
The RNA-unwinding activity of hepatitis C virus non-structural protein 3 (NS3) is positively modulated by its protease domain.	The nonstructural protein 3 (NS3) of hepatitis C virus contains a protease domain at its amino terminus and RNA helicase domain at its carboxyl terminus. To identify optimal NS3 protein for developing screening assays, we expressed full-length NS3 protease/helicase and helicase domains from both HCV type 1a (H77 strain) and 1b (Con1 strain), using either E. coli or baculovirus expression systems. Our studies showed that the full-length NS3 proteins, either with or without the presence of the NS4A domain, from either strains were at least 10-fold more efficient than the corresponding helicase domains in unwinding partial duplex RNA substrates. These findings provide a rationale for the use of full-length NS3 in high throughput screening assays to identify potent small molecule inhibitors of this important target of HCV.
Selective chemical functional probes of granzymes A and B reveal granzyme B is a major effector of natural killer cell-mediated lysis of target cells.	The mechanism of target cell lysis in cytotoxic lymphocyte-mediated death is not well understood, and the role of granzymes in this process is unclear. Chemical functional probes were thus prepared for the major granzymes A and B to deconvolute their role in natural killer cell-mediated lysis of target cells. These biotinylated and substrate specificity-based diphenyl phosphonates allowed facile evaluation of selectivity through activity-based profiling in cell lysates and intact cells. Both inhibitors were found to be extremely selective in vitro and in cells. Use of these inhibitors in cell-based assays revealed granzyme A to be a minor effector and granzyme B to be a major effector of target cell lysis by natural killer cells. These studies indicate that the proapoptotic granzyme B functions also as a pronecrotic effector of target cell death.
Apicomplexan rhomboids have a potential role in microneme protein cleavage during host cell invasion.	Apicomplexan parasites secrete transmembrane (TM) adhesive proteins as part of the process leading to host cell attachment and invasion. These microneme proteins are cleaved in their TM domains by an unidentified protease termed microneme protein protease 1 (MPP1). The cleavage site sequence (IA downward arrowGG), mapped in the Toxoplasma gondii microneme proteins TgMIC2 and TgMIC6, is conserved in microneme proteins of other apicomplexans including Plasmodium species. We report here the characterisation of novel T. gondii proteins belonging to the rhomboid family of intramembrane-cleaving serine proteases. T. gondii possesses six genes encoding rhomboid-like proteins. Four are localised along the secretory pathway and therefore constitute possible candidates for MPP1 activity. Toxoplasma rhomboids TgROM1, TgROM2 and TgROM5 cleave the TM domain of Drosophila Spitz, an established substrate for rhomboids from several species, demonstrating that they are active proteases. In addition, TgROM2 cleaves chimeric proteins that contain the TM domains of TgMIC2 and TgMIC12.
The intriguing world of prothrombin activators from snake venom.	Activation of prothrombin to mature thrombin occurs by the proteolytic action of the prothrombinase complex consisting of a serine proteinase factor Xa, and cofactors factor Va, Ca(2+) ions and phospholipids. Several exogenous prothrombin activators are found in snake venom. They are classified into four groups based on their cofactor requirements. Group A and B prothrombin activators are metalloproteinases whereas group C and D prothrombin activators are serine proteinases. Group C prothrombin activators resemble the mammalian factor Xa-factor Va complex, while Group D activators are structurally and functionally similar to factor Xa. This review provides a detailed description of the current knowledge on all prothrombin activators and highlights several intriguing questions that are yet to be answered.
Influence of cooling temperature and duration on cold adaptation of Lactobacillus acidophilus RD758.	The effect of different cooling temperatures and durations on resistance to freezing and to frozen storage at -20 degrees C in Lactobacillus acidophilus RD758 was studied, by using a central composite rotatable design. A cold adaptation was observed when the cells were maintained at moderate temperature (26 degrees C) for a long time (8h) before being cooled to the final temperature of 15 degrees C. These conditions led to a low rate of loss in acidification activity during frozen storage (0.64 minday(-1)) and a high residual acidification activity after 180 days of frozen storage (1011 min). The experimental design allowed us to determine optimal cooling conditions, which were established at 28 degrees C during 8h. Adaptation to cold temperatures was related to an increase in the unsaturated to saturated fatty acid ratio and in the relative cycC19:0 fatty acid concentration. Moreover, an increased synthesis of four specific proteins was observed as an adaptive response to the optimal cooling conditions. They included the stress protein ATP-dependent ClpP and two cold induced proteins: pyruvate kinase and a putative glycoprotein endopeptidase.
Chitinases of Streptomyces olivaceoviridis and significance of processing for multiplicity.	Five extracellular chitinases of 20.5, 30, 47, 70, and 92 kDa purified from the culture filtrate of Streptomyces olivaceoviridis ATCC 11238 differed in their sequences at the amino termini of the protein chains. In the native state, the chitinases were found to be resistant to proteolysis by trypsin, papain, and Staphylococcus aureus V8 protease. The latter produced several fragments of identical molecular mass from chitinases denaturated with sodium dodecyl sulfate. Five proteases were detected in the protein concentrate from the culture filtrate, and two of them showing ability to cleave chitinases in the native state were purified. One, a protease of 42 kDa, released a 30-kDa protein from the 70-kDa chitinase that reacts with anti-30 kDa chitinase antibodies; the other, a protease of 29 kDa, split the 30-kDa chitinase into 20.5-, 18-, and 16-kDa fragments. From these results, it was deduced that the 70-kDa chitinase is the precursor protein of the 30- and 20.5-kDa chitinases.
Hydrolysis of polyesters by serine proteases.	The substrate specificity of alpha-chymotrypsin and other serine proteases, trypsin, elastase, proteinase K and subtilisin, towards hydrolysis of various polyesters was examined using poly(L-lactide) (PLA), poly(beta-hydroxybutyrate) (PHB), poly(ethylene succinate) (PES), poly(ethylene adipate) (PEA), poly(butylene succinate) (PBS), poly(butylene succinate-co-adipate) (PBS/A), poly[oligo(tetramethylene succinate)-co-(tetramethylane carbonate)] (PBS/C), and poly(epsilon-caprolactone) (PCL). alpha-Chymotrypsin could degrade PLA and PEA with a lower activity on PBS/A. Proteinase K and subtilisin degraded almost all substrates other than PHB. Trypsin and elastase had similar substrate specificities to alpha-chymotrypsin.
Lymphoid follicles are sites of heightened human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) replication and reduced antiretroviral effector mechanisms.	The observation that HIV-1 replication is concentrated in lymphoid follicles (F) compared to extrafollicular (EF) lymphoid tissue is not fully understood. The purpose of this study was to quantify HIV-1 replication in these compartments and evaluate the hypothesis that heightened replication in F occurs because of diminished antiretroviral mechanisms. In situ hybridization for HIV-1 RNA and immunohistochemical staining for CD4, CD8, CD20, and multiple antiretroviral proteins was performed in lymph nodes from 15 HIV-1-infected individuals who were not receiving antiretroviral therapy. A median of 70% of virus-producing cells were detected in F, defined morphologically by CD20 staining, although only a minority of tissue (median, 19%) consisted of F. Frequencies of virus-producing cells were higher in F (median, 1.35 cells/mm2) compared to EF (median, 0.35 cells/mm2; p < 0.0001). A CD4+ cell in F had a median 31-fold greater likelihood of harboring HIV-1 RNA than a CD4+ cell in EF (p = 0.0006). The most highly expressed antiretroviral proteins were alpha-defensins 1, 2, and 3 (median, 4.6% tissue staining), RANTES (median, 728.4 cells/mm2), and granzyme A (median, 412.6 cells/mm2). Less alpha-defensins (p = 0.0127), RANTES (p = 0.0007), granzyme A (p = 0.0018), MIP-1alpha (p = 0.0054), interferon (IFN)-alpha (p = 0.0186), and CD8 (p < 0.0001) was expressed in F compared to EF; amounts in F ranged from 0.15 to 0.50 of those in EF. Expression of IFN-gamma (median, 3.1 cells/mm2) and perforin (median, 4.0 cells/mm2) was low and not significantly different in F and EF. Deficiencies of multiple antiretroviral proteins within F may contribute to heightened replication at that site.
Fibroblast activation protein-alpha and dipeptidyl peptidase IV (CD26): cell-surface proteases that activate cell signaling and are potential targets for cancer therapy.	Fibroblast activation protein-alpha (FAP-alpha) and dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DPPIV) are serine proteases with post-prolyl peptidase activities that can modify tumor cell behavior. FAP-alpha and DPPIV can form heteromeric complexes with each other and may function coordinately to modulate the growth, differentiation, adhesion, and metastasis of tumor cells. This review is focused on FAP-alpha and summarizes a series of studies showing that elevated expression of FAP-alpha results in profound changes in growth and malignant behavior of tumor cells. Depending on the model system investigated, FAP-alpha expression causes dramatic promotion or suppression of tumor growth. In the case of tumor promotion, FAP-alpha expression can drive tumor growth by increasing angiogenesis and by decreasing the anti-tumor response of the immune system. In the case of tumor suppression, FAP-alpha can decrease tumorigenicity of mouse melanoma cells and restore contact inhibition and growth factor dependence even when it is catalytically inactive, implying that protein-protein interactions mediate these effects. Understanding how FAP-alpha activates cell signaling is critical to determining how FAP-alpha mediates growth promotion versus growth suppression in the different model systems and ultimately in human cancer patients. In particular, the roles of FAP-alpha protease activity and FAP-alpha complex formation with DPPIV and other surface molecules in activating cell signaling need to be elucidated since these represent potential targets for therapeutic intervention.
Deamidation of human erythrocyte protein 4.1: possible role in aging.	The human erythrocyte membrane protein 4.1 exists in two major electrophoretic forms: 4.1a (80 Kd) and 4.1b (78 Kd). Mass spectrometry and amino acid analysis of the proteolytic peptides derived from carboxyl-terminal regions of these proteins indicate that they differ by deamidation of two aspargine residues at positions 478 and 502. Electrophoretic analysis of carboxyl-terminal peptides has shown that the mobility difference between the two polypeptides is due to the deamidation of Asn502 and not that of Asn478. This observation was confirmed by converting a congener of the protein 4.1b to 4.1a by site-directed mutagenesis of Asn502 to Asp. These results unambiguously demonstrate that deamidation of Asn502 is responsible for conversion of protein 4.1b to 4.1a. Since the conversion of protein 4.1b to 4.1a, under physiological conditions, occurs in a time-dependent manner, our study clearly shows that deamidation is an excellent marker for red blood cell aging.
The esterolytic activity of epidermolytic toxins.	The two epidermolytic toxins were shown to have intrinsic N-t-butyloxycarbonyl-L-glutamic acid alpha-phenyl esterase activity. The activity was dependent on free toxin pKa values of 6.6 and 6.8 for ETA and ETB respectively. ETB incorporated 0.97 mol of radiolabelled di-isopropyl phosphorofluoridate/mol of protein with loss of esterolytic and epidermolytic activities. The correspondence of epidermolytic and esterolytic activities in ETA and ETB during thermal inactivation and reaction with di-isopropyl phosphorofluoridate, together with the inactivity of the mutant protein ETA S195G, demonstrates that the two activities are dependent on a single active serine residue in each protein.
Primary structure of a Thomsen-Friedenreich-antigen-specific lectin, jacalin [Artocarpus integrifolia (jack fruit) agglutinin]. Evidence for the presence of an internal repeat.	Jacalin [Artocarpus integrifolia (jack fruit) agglutinin] is made up of two types of chains, heavy and light, with M(r) values of 16,200 +/- 1200 and 2090 +/- 300 respectively (on the basis of gel-permeation chromatography under denaturing conditions). Its complete amino acid sequence was determined by manual degradation using a 4-dimethylaminoazobenzene 4'-isothiocyanate double-coupling method. Peptide fragments for sequence analysis were obtained by chemical cleavages of the heavy chain with CNBr, hydroxylamine hydrochloride and iodosobenzoic acid and enzymic cleavage with Staphylococcus aureus proteinase. The peptides were purified by a combination gel-permeation and reverse-phase chromatography. The light chains, being only 20 residues long, could be sequenced without fragmentation. Amino acid analyses and carboxypeptidase-Y-digestion C-terminal analyses of the subunits provided supportive evidence for their sequence. Computer-assisted alignment of the jacalin heavy-chain sequence failed to show sequence similarity to that of any lectin for which the complete sequence is known. Analyses of the sequence showed the presence of an internal repeat spanning residues 7-64 and 76-130. The internal repeat was found to be statistically significant.
Selective extracellular release of cholera toxin B subunit by Escherichia coli: dissection of Neisseria Iga beta-mediated outer membrane transport.	The C-terminal domain (Iga beta) of the Neisseria IgA protease precursor is involved in the transport of covalently attached proteins across the outer membrane of Gram-negative bacteria. We investigated outer membrane transport in Escherichia coli using fusion proteins consisting of an N-terminal signal sequence for inner membrane transport, the Vibrio cholerae toxin B subunit (CtxB) as a passenger and Iga beta. The process probably involves two distinct steps: (i) integration of Iga beta into the outer membrane and (ii) translocation of the passenger across the membrane. The outer membrane integrated part of Iga beta is the C-terminal 30 kDa core, which serves as a translocator for both the passenger and the linking region situated between the passenger and Iga beta core. The completeness of the translocation is demonstrated by the extracellular release of the passenger protein owing to the action of the E. coli outer membrane OmpT protease. Translocation of the CtxB moiety occurs efficiently under conditions preventing intramolecular disulphide bond formation. In contrast, if disulphide bond formation in the periplasm proceeds, then translocation halts after the export of the linking region. In this situation transmembrane intermediates are generated which give rise to characteristic fragments resulting from rapid proteolytic degradation of the periplasmically trapped portion. Based on the identification of translocation intermediates we propose that the polypeptide chain of the passenger passes in a linear fashion across the bacterial outer membrane.
Enzymatic deglycosylation of human Band 3, the anion transport protein of the erythrocyte membrane. Effect on protein structure and transport properties.	The structural and functional roles of the single asparagine (N)-linked oligosaccharide chain of Band 3 (AE1), the anion transport protein of the human erythrocyte membrane, were examined. Purified Band 3 (M(r) = 95,000) in 0.1% octaethylene glycol mono n-dodecyl ether (C12E8) detergent solution was deglycosylated using N-glycosidase F. This treatment sharpened the protein band on sodium dodecyl sulfate gel electrophoresis and decreased its apparent molecular weight by 5,000. The purified membrane domain could be deglycosylated under similar conditions, causing a shift from a broad band centered at 55 kDa to a sharp 46-kDa band. Band 3 was shown to bind tomato lectin, and loss of lectin binding on blots provided a sensitive assay for deglycosylation. Carbohydrate analysis revealed that greater than 80% of the oligosaccharide could be removed from Band 3 by N-glycosidase F digestion. The deglycosylated protein maintained its dimeric structure and level of detergent binding but had a smaller Stokes radius (RS = 72 A) than native Band 3 (RS = 75 A). The Stokes radius of the membrane domain (RS = 60 A) also decreased upon deglycosylation (RS = 58 A). Circular dichroism studies showed that deglycosylation did not change the secondary structure of Band 3 or the membrane domain. The sensitivity of Band 3 or the membrane domain to proteolytic digestion by trypsin or proteinase K was also unaffected by deglycosylation. The deglycosylated protein aggregated more rapidly and was much more readily precipitable by ammonium sulfate. The deglycosylated protein bound the anion transport inhibitor 4-benzamido-4'-amino-stilbene-2,2'-disulfonate with the same affinity (Kd = 1 microM) as the native protein. Transport studies using reconstituted Band 3 and resealed ghosts showed that deglycosylated Band 3 retained its ability to transport anions. We conclude that removal of the oligosaccharide chain from Band 3 and any resultant structural changes had no effect on the transport function of this protein.
Interaction of large granular lymphocytes with susceptible target does not induce second messenger and cytolytic granule exocytosis.	We studied the activation signals of LGL, from LDGL patients, following incubation with susceptible K562 target cells. The findings showed that LGL lysis is independent of [Ca2+]i rise and cytolytic granule exocytosis, and most likely involves alternative, as yet unidentified, mechanisms.
Differential cleavage of surface proteins of Borrelia burgdorferi by proteases.	The differential cleavage of surface proteins of Borrelia burgdorferi IRS strains by several proteases was examined. Proteinase K, trypsin, chymotrypsin and thermolysin all cleaved the outer surface protein B (OspB) to undetectable levels by Coomassie Brilliant Blue staining, whereas some residual protein was detected by immunoblotting with polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies. Not even antigenic fragments were detectable by immunoblotting with 1A8 monoclonal antibody reactive with OspB. Less effective or ineffective was the cleavage of OspB by V8 protease and proteinase A, respectively. The outer surface protein A was cleaved only by proteinase K. The effect of trypsin on borreliae viability and adhesion to cultured cells was also studied. The trypsin treatment of borreliae did not impair the viability of organisms which continued to synthesize the cleaved OspB. The attachment of B. burgdorferi to HEp-2 cells was reduced by 41% after treatment with trypsin, whereas preincubation of borreliae with monoclonal antibody 1A8 and guinea pig immune serum reduced the adhesion of borreliae to the cells by 32% and 87%, respectively.
Processing by OmpT of fusion proteins carrying the HlyA transport signal during secretion by the Escherichia coli hemolysin transport system.	A fusion gene (ces-hlyAs) was constructed by ligating the genetic information for the C-terminal 60 amino acids (hlyAs) of Escherichia coli hemolysin (HlyA) to the ces gene for a cholesterol esterase/lipase (CE) from a Pseudomonas species. Part (about 30%) of the expressed fusion protein CE-HlyAs was secreted in E. coli carrying hlyB and hlyD genes. Following the insertion between the reporter gene and hlyAs of a linker sequence that contains the information for potential cleavage sites for the outer membrane protease OmpT, two different fusion proteins (PhoA-HlyAs and CE-HlyAs) were shown to be cleaved by OmpT between the two parts during HlyB/HlyD-mediated secretion. Processed PhoA and CE accumulated in the supernatant. The efficiency of cleavage by OmpT was considerably improved by increased ompT gene dose. It was further shown that OmpT preferentially recognizes potential cleavage sites within the linker sequence.
Sulfonyl fluoride serine protease inhibitors inactivate RNK-16 lymphocyte granule proteases and reduce lysis by granule extracts and perforin.	Cytolytic granules purified from natural killer lymphocytes (NK) contain a pore-forming protein (perforin) and a number of serine proteases. When these proteases are inhibited by serine protease-specific isocoumarin reagents the serine proteases are inactivated and the cytolytic activity of the granules is decreased. Paradoxically, it has been found that the general serine protease inhibitor phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF) frequently cannot block killing even though it inhibits many of the serine proteases. At the same time it has been reported that "purified" perforin alone can lyze cells. To address these inconsistencies we first compared the ability of PMSF and four new sulfonyl fluoride serine protease inhibitors to inhibit proteases and cell lysis. We determined the effects on lysis and the second order inhibition rate constants for five granule protease activities: ly-tryptase, ly-chymase, Met-ase (methionine cleaving), Ser-ase (serine cleaving) and Asp-ase (aspartic acid cleaving). One compound, 2-(Z-NH(CH2)2CONH)C6SO2F, was a potent inhibitor of Met-ase activity (k(obsd)/[I] = 162 M-1 s-1), ly-chymase activity (k(obsd)/[I] = 147 M-1 s-1), and granule-mediated as well as perforin-mediated lysis. PMSF was a poor inhibitor of granule proteases (k(obsd)/[I]'s less than 7 M-1 s-1 for four activities and no inhibition of Ser-ase); the lack of reactivity is consistent with the failure of PMSF to block granule lytic activity. We also prepared enriched perforin by anion exchange chromatography and showed that a ly-chymase and a Met-ase associated with perforin. By inhibiting these proteases we also inhibited lytic activity.
Aminonaphthalenesulfonamides, a new class of modifiable fluorescent detecting groups and their use in substrates for serine protease enzymes.	A series of new compounds, 6-amino-1-naphthalenesulfonamides (ANSN), were used as fluorescent detecting groups for substrates of amidases. These compounds have a high quantum fluorescent yield, and the sulfonyl moiety permits a large range of chemical modification. Fifteen ANSN substrates with the structure (N alpha-Z)Arg-ANSNR1R2 were synthesized and evaluated for their reactivity with 8 proteases involved in blood coagulation and fibrinolysis. Thrombin, activated protein C, and urokinase rapidly hydrolyzed substrates with monosubstituted sulfonamide moieties (R1 = H). The maximum rate of substrate homologue). The hydrolysis rates for substrates with branched substituents were slower than their linear analogues. Monosubstituted (N alpha-Z)Arg-ANSNR1R2 possessing cyclohexyl or benzyl groups in the sulfonamide moiety were hydrolyzed by these three enzymes at rates similar to that of the n-butyl homologue (except the cyclohexyl compound for u-PA). Factor Xa rapidly hydrolyzed substrates with short alkyl chains, especially when R1 = R2 = CH3 or C2H5. Lys-plasmin and rt-PA demonstrated low activity with these compounds, and the best results were accomplished for monosubstituted compounds when R2 = benzyl (for both enzymes). Factor VIIa and factor IXa beta exhibited no activity with these substrates. A series of 14 peptidyl ANSN substrates were synthesized, and their reactivity for the same 8 enzymes was evaluated. Thrombin, factor Xa, APC, and Lys-plasmin hydrolyzed all of the substrates investigated. Urokinase, rt-PA, and factor IXa beta exhibited reactivity with a more limited group of substrates, and factor VIIa hydrolyzed only one compound (MesD-LGR-ANSN(C2H5)2). The substrate ZGGRR-ANSNH (cyclo-C6H11) showed considerable specificity for APC in comparison with other enzymes (kcat/KM = 19,300 M-1 s-1 for APC, 1560 for factor IIa, and 180 for factor Xa). This kinetic advantage in substrate hydrolysis was utilized to evaluate the activation of protein C by thrombin in a continuous assay format. Substrate (D-LPR-ANSNHC3H7) was used to evaluate factor IX activation by the factor VIIa/tissue factor enzymatic complex in a discontinuous assay. A comparison between the commercially available substrate chromozyme TH (p-nitroanilide) and the ANSN substrate with the same peptide sequence (TosGPR) demonstrated that aminonaphthalenesulfonamide increased the specificity (kcat/KM) of substrate hydrolysis by thrombin more than 30 times, with respect to factor Xa substrate hydrolysis.
Chemical cross-linking indicates a staggered and antiparallel protofilament of desmin intermediate filaments and characterizes one higher-level complex between protofilaments.	Tetrameric rods, protofilaments and assembled filaments of desmin, the intermediate filament protein of muscle, have been chemically cross-linked with the lysine specific cross-linkers EGS [ethylene glycol bis(succinimidylsuccinate), 1.61 nm span] and bis(sulfosuccinimidyl) suberate (1.14 nm span). One bis(sulfosuccinimidyl)suberate and two EGS cross-links were isolated from the rod and characterized. They show that the two coiled coils in the rod tetramer are staggered by approximately 15-20 nm and strongly indicate an antiparallel arrangement in which the inner overlapping part of the rod is formed by the amino-terminal helices 1A, 1B and 2A. Both EGS cross-links identified in the rod were also isolated from cross-linked filaments. The isolated rod, therefore, represents a complex also present in identical, or very similar form in protofilaments and in assembled filaments. Cross-linked filaments yielded a third EGS cross-link that must have been formed between neighboring protofilaments. It connects the highly conserved carboxy-terminus of helix 2B of the first protofilament to the overlap region formed by helices 1A and 2A of the second protofilament. The restrictions posed by these cross-links on current filament models are discussed.
Disulfide arrangement of human insulin-like growth factor I derived from yeast and plasma.	The disulfide arrangement of yeast derived human insulin-like growth factor I (yIGF-I) was determined using a combination of Staphylococcus aureus V8 protease mapping, fast-atom-bombardment mass spectrometry as well as amino acid sequence and composition analysis. Three disulfide bridges were found between the following cysteine residues: Cys6-Cys48, Cys47-Cys52 and Cys18-Cys61. IGF-I isolated from human plasma (pIGF-I) was found to have an identical disulfide configuration. A yeast-derived isomeric form of IGF-I (yisoIGF-I) exhibited an altered disulfide arrangement: Cys6-Cys47, Cys48-Cys52 and Cys18-Cys61. Radioreceptor analysis of pIGF-I and yIGF-I showed high specific activity, 20,000 U/mg. However, yisoIGF-I demonstrated a severely reduced ability to bind to the IGF-I receptor (19%) and was less potent in provoking a mitogenic response in Balb/C 3T3 fibroblasts (50% at doses 10-100 ng/ml). The data demonstrate the importance of correct disulfide arrangement in IGF-I for full biological activity.
Amino acid sequence of sweet-taste-suppressing peptide (gurmarin) from the leaves of Gymnema sylvestre.	The complete amino acid sequence of a sweet-taste-suppressing peptide, gurmarin, from the leaves of Gymnema sylvestre was determined by the Edman analysis of peptides derived from digests obtained with Staphylococcus aureus V8 protease, pyroglutamyl aminopeptidase, and lysyl endopeptidase. Gurmarin consists of 35 amino acid residues with an amino-terminal pyroglutamyl residue and has the molecular weight of 4,209. Gurmarin has no significant homology with other known proteins.
An extracellular--pepstatin insensitive acid protease produced by Thermoplasma volcanium.	In this study, some parameters for the production and caseinolytic activity of an extracellular thermostable acid protease from a thermoacidophilic archaeon Thermoplasma volcanium were determined. The highest level of growth and enzyme production were detected at pH 3.0 over an incubation period of 192 h at 60 degrees C. The pH optimum for the acid protease activity was 3.0 and the enzyme was fairly stable over a broad pH range (pH 3.0-8.0). The temperature for maximum activity of the enzyme was 55 degrees C and activity remained stable between 50 degrees C and 70 degrees C. These features could be of relevance for various biotechnological applications of this enzyme. Serine-(PMSF), cysteine-(DTT), metallo-(EDTA) and aspartate-(pepstatin) protease inhibitors did not inhibit the caseinolytic activity of the enzyme. Therefore, Tp. volcanium acid protease could be a member of the pepstatin-insensitive carboxyl proteinases.
A five-domain Kazal-type serine proteinase inhibitor from black tiger shrimp Penaeus monodon and its inhibitory activities.	A novel five-domain Kazal-type serine proteinase inhibitor, SPIPm2, identified from the hemocyte cDNA library of black tiger shrimp Penaeus monodon was successfully expressed in the Escherichia coli expression system. The expressed recombinant SPIPm2 (rSPIPm2) as inclusion bodies was solubilized with a sodium carbonate buffer, pH10, and purified by gel filtration chromatography. The molecular mass of rSPIPm2 was determined using MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry to be 29.065 kDa. The inhibitory activities of rSPIPm2 were tested against trypsin, alpha-chymotrypsin, subtilisin and elastase. The inhibitor exhibited potent inhibitory activities against subtilisin and elastase, weak inhibitory activity against trypsin, and did not inhibit chymotrypsin. Tight-binding inhibition assay suggested that the molar ratios of SPIPm2 to subtilisin and elastase were 1:2 and 1:1, respectively. The inhibition against subtilisin and elastase was a competitive type with inhibition constants (Ki) of 0.52 and 3.27 nM, respectively. The inhibitory activity of SPIPm2 against subtilisin implies that, in shrimp, it may function as a defense component against proteinases from pathogenic bacteria but the elastase inhibitory function is not known.
Determination of protein oxidation by mass spectrometry and method transfer to quality control.	Characterization and quantitative analysis of oxidation plays an important role in biopharmaceutical development. This study demonstrates an approach to the assessment of susceptible to oxidation methionine residues in monoclonal antibodies and recombinant proteins. A method for the determination of oxidation levels by peptide mapping with mass spectrometric (MS) detection is described and its advantages compared to the UV detection are presented. Good linearity and reproducibility for determination of oxidation with MS detection are demonstrated (R2 > 0.99; RSDs of 4-9%). Aspects of method transfer to quality control group (QC) are discussed. As well, a quick and easy flow injection/MS method is proposed to substitute for peptide map analysis. Peptide coverage, linearity, reproducibility, robustness, sensitivity and quantitative oxidation results are compared for the flow injection/MS and LC/MS approaches.
The role of single N-glycans in proteolytic processing and cell surface transport of the Lassa virus glycoprotein GP-C.	Lassa virus glycoprotein is synthesised as a precursor (preGP-C) into the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum. After cotranslational cleavage of the signal peptide, the immature GP-C is posttranslationally processed into the N-terminal subunit GP-1 and the C-terminal subunit GP-2 by the host cell subtilase SKI-1/S1P. The glycoprotein precursor contains eleven potential N-glycosylation sites. In this report, we investigated the effect of each N-glycan on proteolytic cleavage and cell surface transport by disrupting the consensus sequences of eleven potential N-glycan attachment sites individually. Five glycoprotein mutants with disrupted N-glycosylation sites were still proteolytically processed, whereas the remaining N-glycosylation sites are necessary for GP-C cleavage. Despite the lack of proteolytic processing, all cleavage-defective mutants were transported to the cell surface and remained completely endo H-sensitive. The findings indicate that N-glycans are needed for correct conformation of GP-C in order to be cleaved by SKI-1/S1P.
Generation and characterization of bone marrow-derived cultured canine mast cells.	Disorders of mast cells, particularly mast cell tumors (MCTs), are common in dogs. There now is evidence that many of these disorders exhibit breed predilections, suggesting an underlying heritable component. In comparison to humans and mice, little is known regarding the biology of canine mast cells. To facilitate the study of mast cell biology in other species, bone marrow-derived cultured mast cells (BMCMCs) often are used because these represent a ready source of large numbers of cells. We have developed a protocol to successfully generate canine BMCMCs from purified CD34(+) cells. After 5-7 weeks of culture with recombinant canine stem cell factor (rcSCF), greater than 90% of the cell population consisted of mast cells as evidenced by staining with Wright's-Giemsa, as well as production of chymase, tryptase, IL-8 and MCP-1. These cells expressed cell surface markers typical of mast cells including Kit, Fc epsilonRI, CD44, CD45 and CD18/CD11b. The canine BMCMCs were dependent on rcSCF for survival and proliferation, and migrated in response to rcSCF gradients. Cross-linking of cell surface-bound IgE induced the release of histamine and TNFalpha. Histamine release could also be stimulated by ConA, compound 48/80, and calcium ionophore. In summary, canine BMCMCs possess phenotypic and functional properties similar to mast cells found in vivo. These cells represent a novel, valuable resource for investigating normal canine mast cell biology as well as for identifying factors that lead to mast cell dysregulation in the dog.
Large nucleotide-dependent movement of the N-terminal domain of the ClpX chaperone.	The ClpXP ATPase-protease complex is a major component of the protein quality control machinery in the cell. A ClpX subunit consists of an N-terminal zinc binding domain (ZBD) and a C-terminal AAA+ domain. ClpX oligomerizes into a hexamer with the AAA+ domains forming the base of the hexamer and the ZBDs extending out of the base. Here, we report that ClpX switches between a capture and a feeding conformation. ZBDs in ClpX undergo large nucleotide-dependent block movement towards ClpP and into the AAA+ ring. This motion is modulated by the ClpX cofactor, SspB. Evidence for this movement was initially obtained by the surprising observation that an N-terminal extension on ClpX is clipped by bound ClpP in functional ClpXP complexes. Protease-protection, crosslinking, and light scattering experiments further support these findings.
Ecotin modulates thrombin activity through exosite-2 interactions.	Ecotin is a Escherichia coli-derived protein that has been characterized as a potent inhibitor of serine-proteases. This protein is highly effective against several mammalian enzymes, which includes pancreatic and neutrophil-derived elastases, chymotrypsin, trypsin, factor Xa, and kallikrein. In this work we showed that ecotin binds to human alpha-thrombin via its secondary binding site, and modulates thrombin catalytic activity. Formation of wild type ecotin-alpha-thrombin complex was observed by native PAGE and remarkably, gel filtration chromatography showed an unusual 2:1 ecotin:enzyme stoichiometry. Analysis of the protease inhibitor effects on thrombin biological activities showed that (i) it decreases the inhibition of thrombin by heparin/antithrombin complex (IC50=3.2 microM); (ii) it produces a two-fold increase in the thrombin-induced fibrinogen clotting; and (iii) it inhibits thrombin-induced platelet aggregation (IC50=4.5 microM). Allosteric changes on thrombin structure were then evaluated. Complex formation with ecotin caused a three-fold increase in the rate of thrombin inhibition by BPTI, suggesting a displacement of the enzyme's 60-loop. In addition, ecotin modulated the enzyme's catalytic site, as demonstrated by changes in the fluorescence emission of fluorescein-FPRCK-alpha-thrombin (EC50=3.5 microM). Finally, solid phase competition assays demonstrated that heparin and prothrombin fragment 2 prevents thrombin interaction with ecotin. Altogether, these observations strongly support an ecotin interaction with thrombin anion-binding exosite-2, resulting in modulation of its biological activities. At this point, ecotin might be useful as a new tool for studying thrombin allosteric modulation.
Evolution of the molecular machines for protein import into mitochondria.	In creating mitochondria some 2 billion years ago, the first eukaryotes needed to establish protein import machinery in the membranes of what was a bacterial endosymbiont. Some of the preexisting protein translocation apparatus of the endosymbiont appears to have been commandeered, including molecular chaperones, the signal peptidase, and some components of the protein-targeting machinery. However, the protein translocases that drive protein import into mitochondria have no obvious counterparts in bacteria, making it likely that these machines were created de novo. The presence of similar translocase subunits in all eukaryotic genomes sequenced to date suggests that all eukaryotes can be considered descendants of a single ancestor species that carried an ancestral "protomitochondria."
Different mitochondrial intermembrane space proteins are released during apoptosis in a manner that is coordinately initiated but can vary in duration.	The release of mitochondrial intermembrane space proteins to the cytosol is a key event during apoptosis. We used in situ fluorescent labeling of proteins tagged with a short tetracysteine-containing sequence to follow the release of Smac, Omi, adenylate kinase-2, cytochrome c, and apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) during apoptosis and compared the release with that of cytochrome c tagged with GFP in individual cells observed over time. We observed a caspase-independent, simultaneous release of cytochrome c, Smac, Omi, and adenylate kinase-2. Although AIF release also was caspase-independent and commenced with that of the other proteins, it proceeded much more slowly and incompletely from mitochondria, perhaps because of a requirement for a secondary event. These results suggest that these proteins are released through the same mitochondrial pore and that apoptosis may not be regulated through a selective release of individual mitochondrial proteins. The timing and extent of AIF release makes it unlikely that it is involved in the induction of apoptosis, either upstream or downstream of mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization.
The MPAC domain is a novel mitotically regulated domain, removed by apoptotic protease cleavage during cell death.	The apoptotic proteases, including caspases and granzyme B, have independent evolutionary origins, yet are both highly specific for cleavage after aspartic acid residues and cleave many of the same substrates at closely spaced sites. In addition, many of these substrates are also reversibly regulated during other processes such as the cell cycle. In these studies, we have identified a novel domain (the MPAC domain: Mitotically Phosphorylated, Apoptotically Cleaved) present at the N-terminus of Ufd2a, which is regulated both by cleavage during cell death, and by phosphorylation during mitosis. We have also identified a corresponding domain, at the C-terminus of polyA polymerase (PAP), which is similarly regulated by phosphorylation during mitosis and is delineated by an apoptotic protease cleavage site. The positioning of the apoptotic cleavage site suggests that it represents a novel connector between the regulatory domain and its functional partner(s), providing insights into the structure and function that guided the evolution of the apoptotic proteases.
Mast cells can enhance resistance to snake and honeybee venoms.	Snake or honeybee envenomation can cause substantial morbidity and mortality, and it has been proposed that the activation of mast cells by snake or insect venoms can contribute to these effects. We show, in contrast, that mast cells can significantly reduce snake-venom-induced pathology in mice, at least in part by releasing carboxypeptidase A and possibly other proteases, which can degrade venom components. Mast cells also significantly reduced the morbidity and mortality induced by honeybee venom. These findings identify a new biological function for mast cells in enhancing resistance to the morbidity and mortality induced by animal venoms.
Granzyme B-mediated death of pancreatic beta-cells requires the proapoptotic BH3-only molecule bid.	Perforin-deficient NOD mice are protected from diabetes, suggesting that cytotoxic granule contents of CD8(+) T-cells have a significant role in killing beta-cells. Despite this, cytotoxic granule effects on human or mouse pancreatic islets have not been reported. We tested the susceptibility of human and mouse islet cells to purified recombinant perforin and granzyme B and measured apoptotic death using a number of assays. Perforin and granzyme B impaired insulin secretion from islet cells, and this was accompanied by cytochrome c release, caspase activation, and DNA fragmentation. Granzyme B-mediated apoptotic changes only occurred in the presence of perforin. When compared with hemopoietic cells, traditionally used as targets to measure cytotoxic T-cell function in vitro, islet cells were relatively resistant to perforin and granzyme B. Inhibition of caspases prevented DNA fragmentation but not cytochrome c release, indicating that mitochondrial disruption due to granzyme B is independent of caspase activation. Consistent with this, islet cells from mice deficient in the BH3-only protein Bid were resistant to cytochrome c release and were protected from apoptosis after exposure to perforin/granzyme B. Our data suggest that Bid cleavage by granzyme B precedes mitochondrial disruption and apoptosis in pancreatic islets.
Proteinase 3 expression on neutrophil membranes from patients with infectious disease.	Proteinase-3 (PR3) is an abundant serine proteinase stored in the azurophilic granules of neutrophils and released to the cell surface upon activation where it contributes to local tissue destruction and inflammation. The sub-population of membrane PR3 (mPR3) high expression (PR3-high) varies among individuals. There are many reports about PR3 in Wegener's granulomatosis, but few about PR3 expression in patients with common inflammatory disorders, such as sepsis. The mPR3 expression on neutrophils from 56 patients with inflammatory disorders and from 64 healthy volunteers was examined by flow cytometry. High variability in the percentage of PR3-high (%PR3-high) neutrophils was observed in healthy volunteers and patients with inflammatory disease, and the %PR3-high was significantly greater in the patients (72 +/- 19% vs 55 +/- 20%, P < 0.0001). Overall neutrophil PR3 expression in patients with infectious diseases, especially systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) was significantly high (P < 0.01) and showed a positive correlation with C-reactive protein (CRP). Even under inflammatory conditions not involving autoimmune vasculitis, there are significant increases in both the absolute surface expression of PR3 and the numbers of neutrophils expressing high levels of PR3 and these correlate with CRP levels. The data are consistent with a model in which neutrophil membrane expression of PR3 is greatly influenced by an in vivo inflammatory environment.
High-density lipoprotein cholesterol regulates endothelial progenitor cells by increasing eNOS and preventing apoptosis.	Endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) are implicated as an important marker of endothelial function and cardiovascular risk. In the present study, we examined whether high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol plays a role in the peripheral EPC levels and its underlying mechanisms in the HDL cholesterol-induced elevation of EPCs.
Effects of liquid storage on amidase activity, DNA fragmentation and motility of turkey spermatozoa.	Short-term liquid storage of turkey semen is of great interest in the management of turkey reproduction due to the extensive use of artificial insemination. This study examined changes in DNA fragmentation (using a comet assay), sperm motility characteristics (using computer-aided sperm analysis), and amidase activity (using a colorimetric assay) of turkey sperm stored for 24 and 48 h. In addition we found that turkey spermatozoa contain besides acrosin, additional two serine proteinases of molecular weight of 34 and 42 kDa. We found that, after 48 h of liquid storage, decreases in sperm motility characteristics and increases in amidase activity and DNA fragmentation occurred. An increase of amidase activity was found after 24h. Decreases in sperm motility and increase in DNA fragmentation were found after 48 h of storage. These data suggest that a decrease in turkey sperm quality during short-term storage is related to disturbances to the acrosome, presumably related to premature activation of acrosomal serine proteinases, and to a lesser extent a decrease in sperm motility characteristics and damage of sperm DNA.
The serine protease Omi/HtrA2 is involved in XIAP cleavage and in neuronal cell death following focal cerebral ischemia/reperfusion.	Omi/HtrA2 is a pro-apoptotic mitochondrial serine protease involved in both forms of apoptosis, caspase-dependent as well as caspase-independent cell death. However, the impact of Omi/HtrA2 in the apoptotic cell machinery that takes place in vivo under pathological conditions such as cerebral ischemia remains unknown. The present study was monitored in order to examine whether Omi/HtrA2 plays a decisive role in apoptosis observed after focal cerebral ischemia in rats. Male adult rats were subjected to 90min of focal cerebral ischemia followed by reperfusion and treated with vehicle or ucf-101, a novel and specific Omi/HtrA2 inhibitor, prior reperfusion. Focal cerebral ischemia/reperfusion induced a mitochondrial up-regulation of Omi/HtrA2 and significantly increased cytosolic accumulation of Omi/HtrA2. Furthermore, ischemia led to activation of caspase-3 and degradation X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP). Treatment of animals prior ischemia with ucf-101, the specific inhibitor of Omi/HtrA2, was able to (1) reduce the number of TUNEL-positive cells, to (2) attenuate the XIAP-breakdown and to (3) reduce the infarct size. This study shows for the first time that focal cerebral ischemia in rats results in Omi/HtrA2 translocation from the mitochondria to the cytosol, where it participates in neuronal cell death. Blocking the proteolytic activity of Omi/HtrA2 with specific inhibitors, such as the ucf-101, could be a novel way to afford neuroprotection and minimize cellular damage in cerebral ischemia/reperfusion.
Axonal transports of tripeptidyl peptidase II in rat sciatic nerves.	Axonal transport of tripeptidyl peptidase II, a putative cholecystokinin inactivating serine peptidase, was examined in the proximal, middle, and distal segments of rat sciatic nerves using a double ligation technique. Enzyme activity significantly increased not only in the proximal segment but also in the distal segment 12-72h after ligation, and the maximal enzyme activity was found in the proximal and distal segments at 72h. Western blot analysis of tripeptidyl peptidase II showed that its immunoreactivities in the proximal and distal segments were 3.1- and 1.7-fold higher than that in the middle segment. The immunohistochemical analysis of the segments also showed an increase in immunoreactive tripeptidyl peptidase II level in the proximal and distal segments in comparison with that in the middle segment, indicating that tripeptidyl peptidase II is transported by anterograde and retrograde axonal flow. The results suggest that tripeptidyl peptidase II may be involved in the metabolism of neuropeptides in nerve terminals or synaptic clefts.
Suggested functions for prolyl oligopeptidase: a puzzling paradox.	Prolyl oligopeptidase (PO, E.C. 3.4.21.26) is a post-proline cleaving enzyme with endopeptidase activity towards peptides not longer than 30 amino acids. It has been purified and characterized from various mammalian and bacterial sources, but despite its thorough enzymological and structural characterization, the exact function of PO remains obscure. Many investigations have addressed the physiological role of this enzyme, mainly by the use of specific PO inhibitors, activity measurements in clinical samples and (neuro)peptide degradation studies. From the combined results emerges a puzzling paradox: how can an intracellular, cytoplasmatic oligopeptidase affect not only the amount of extracellular neuropeptides but also signal transduction and secretion? This report provides a review of the literature on the suggested functions for PO, highlighting possible pitfalls and contradictions.
Biosynthesis of the dystonia-associated AAA+ ATPase torsinA at the endoplasmic reticulum.	TorsinA is a widely expressed AAA(+) (ATPases associated with various cellular activities) ATPase of unknown function. Previous studies have described torsinA as a type II protein with a cleavable signal sequence, a single membrane spanning domain, and its C-terminus located in the ER (endoplasmic reticulum) lumen. However, in the present study we show that torsinA is not in fact an integral membrane protein. Instead we find that the mature protein associates peripherally with the ER membrane, most likely through an interaction with an integral membrane protein. Consistent with this model, we provide evidence that the signal peptidase complex cleaves the signal sequence of torsinA, and we show that the region previously suggested to form a transmembrane domain is translocated into the lumen of the ER. The finding that torsinA is a peripheral, and not an integral membrane protein as previously thought, has important implications for understanding the function of this novel ATPase.
Analysis of the plasma elimination kinetics and conformational stabilities of native, proteinase-complexed, and reactive site cleaved serpins: comparison of alpha 1-proteinase inhibitor, alpha 1-antichymotrypsin, antithrombin III, alpha 2-antiplasmin, angiotensinogen, and ovalbumin.	Proteinase inhibitors of the serpin superfamily may exist in one of three distinct conformations: the native form, a fully active protein with the reactive site loop intact; the proteolytically modified form in which inhibitory capacity is abolished; and the proteinase-complexed form, a stable equimolar complex between the inhibitor and a target proteinase. Here, the specificity and kinetics of the plasma elimination of different serpin conformations are compared. Proteinase-complexed serpins were rapidly cleared from the circulation. However, the native and modified forms were not cleared rapidly, indicating that the receptor-mediated pathways which recognize the complexes fail to recognize the native and modified forms. This result suggests that significant structural differences exist between modified and proteinase-complexed serpins. The structural differences were probed by using transverse urea gradient gel electrophoresis, a technique that allows comparisons of the conformational stabilities of proteins. With the exception of the noninhibitory serpins ovalbumin and angiotensinogen, the modified and proteinase-complexed serpins were both stabilized thermodynamically compared to the native forms. In addition, the proteinase component of the serpin-proteinase complex was usually thermodynamically stabilized. These data are used to compare the conformations of serpin-proteinase complexes with those of native and modified serpins; they are discussed in terms of a model whereby serpins inhibit proteinases in a manner similar to that described for other types of protein inhibitors of serine proteinases.
Origins and migratory routes of murine Cajal-Retzius cells.	The first layer that appears in the cortical neuroepithelium, the preplate, forms in the upper part of the cortex immediately below the pial surface. In mice, this layer exists between embryonic days (E) 10 and 13, and it hosts different cell populations. Here, we have studied the first cell population generated in the preplate, the Cajal-Retzius cells. There is considerable confusion regarding these cells with respect to both their site of generation and the migratory routes that they follow. This perhaps is due largely to the different opinions that exist regarding their characterization. We have studied the site of origin of these cells, their migratory routes, and the molecular markers that may distinguish them by injecting tracers into early embryos, culturing them in toto for 24 hours, and then performing immunohistochemistry. We found that the Cajal-Retzius cells are most likely generated in the cortical hem by comparing with other cortical or extracortical origins. These cells are generated mainly at E10 and E11, and they subsequently migrate tangentially to cover the whole cortical mantle in 24 hours. From their site of origin in the medial wall of the telencephalon, they spread in a caudorostral direction, following an oblique migratory path toward the lateral part of the neuroepithelium. Prior to the splitting of the preplate, a percentage of the Cajal-Retzius cells that can be distinguished by the expression of reelin do not contain calretinin. Furthermore, there were no early-migrating neurons that expressed calbindin.
The dual personalities of matrix metalloproteinases in inflammation.	Collagen, gelatin, elastin, fibronectin, proteoglycans and vitronectin are just a few proteins which form the "mesh" that holds a multicellular organism together. The matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are a family of zinc-dependent endopeptidases that degrade the extracellular matrix. Over several decades it has been clearly established that MMPs are the key molecules associated with matrix remodeling. The remodeling of this matrix is important for physiological and pathological processes such as pregnancy, wound repair, cancer and arthritis. The identification of new non-matrix MMP substrates involved in inflammation, highlights the diverse role of MMPs. These enzymes can enhance leukocyte invasion and regulate the inflammatory activity of serine proteases, cytokines and chemokines. Interestingly, the MMP family appears to have a "dual personality" in that several MMPs such as MMP-2 and -9 can favour either anti- or pro-inflammatory action, respectively. The extent of this dual functionality of MMPs is yet to be realized. Elucidating these processes may assist in the development of drugs for the treatment of inflammatory diseases such as arthritis, cancer and chronic wounds.
Expression of the serine protease, matriptase, in breast ductal carcinoma of Chinese women: correlation with clinicopathological parameters.	Matriptase is a serine protease expressed by cells of surface epithelial origin, including epithelial breast tumor cells. Matriptase cleaves and activates proteins implicated in the progression of cancer and represents a potential prognostic and therapeutic target. The aim of this study was to examine matriptase expression in breast tumors of Chinese women and to identify its clinicopathological correlations. Immunohistochemical analysis of matriptase was performed in tissue microarrays of 251 breast tumors including 30 fibroadenomas, 59 ductal carcinomas in situ (DCIS), 38 grade I invasive ductal carcinomas (IDC), 79 grade II IDC, and 45 grade III IDC. The matriptase scores were significantly higher in the tumors than their non-tumor counterparts (178+/-12 for fibroadenoma; 275+/-11 for DCIS; 299+/-10 for grade I IDC; 251+/-10 for grade II IDC; and 314+/-11 for grade III IDC). In cases of IDC, matriptase scores were significantly correlated with tumor staging and nodal staging. Our findings demonstrate that matriptase is over-expressed in breast ductal carcinoma of Chinese women. It therefore may be a good biomarker for diagnosis and treatment of malignant breast tumors.
Colonic luminal proteases activate colonocyte proteinase-activated receptor-2 and regulate paracellular permeability in mice.	Luminal activation of protease-activated receptors-2 (PAR(2)) on colonocytes by trypsin or PAR(2)-activating peptide increases colonic paracellular permeability (CPP). The aim of this study was to evaluate the role of proteases from endogenous and bacterial origin in the modulation of CPP and colonocyte PAR(2) expression in mice. CPP was assessed with (51)Cr-EDTA after intracolonic administration of different protease inhibitors. After 12 days of oral antibiotic treatment, measurements of colonic luminal serine protease activity (CLSPA), CPP, mucosal mouse mast cell proteinase-1 (MMCP-1) content, immunochemistry of PAR(2) and assessment of effects of PAR(2) agonist (SLIGRL) and mast cell degranulator (C48/80) on CPP in Ussing chambers were performed. Immunochemistry was repeated after intracolonic trypsin administration. Colonic infusion of protease inhibitors significantly reduced CPP. In antibiotic-treated mice, CLSPA was reduced coupled with a decrease in PAR(2) expression, but with no change in CPP and MMCP-1 content. Trypsin administration restored PAR(2) expression. The increase in CPP induced by SLIGRL and C48/80 was reduced after antibiotic treatment. Protease activity of colonic content plays an important role in the regulation of mucosal barrier through activation of PAR(2).
Design and synthesis of redox stable analogues of sunflower trypsin inhibitors (SFTI-1) on solid support, potent inhibitors of matriptase.	[structure: see text] Matriptase is a member of the emerging class of type II transmembrane serine proteases. It was found that the sunflower trypsin inhibitor (SFTI-1), isolated from sunflower seeds, inhibits matriptase with a subnanomolar Ki of 0.92 nM. On the basis of this result, we designed and synthesized its proteolytically stable analogues, SFTI-2 and SFTI-3. SFTI-3 exhibited very good binding affinity to matriptase, and it was metabolically stable.
The human airway trypsin-like protease modulates the urokinase receptor (uPAR, CD87) structure and functions.	The human airway trypsin-like protease (HAT) is a respiratory epithelium-associated, type II transmembrane serine protease, which is also detected as an extracellular enzyme in lung fluids during airway inflammatory disorders. We have evaluated its capacity to affect the urokinase-type plasminogen activator receptor (uPAR), a membrane glycolipid-anchored, three-domain (D1D2D3) glycoprotein that plays a crucial role in innate immunity and inflammation by supporting cell migration and matrix degradation, with structure and biological properties that can be regulated via limited endoproteolysis. With the use of immunoblotting, flow immunocytometry, and ELISA analyses applied to a recombinant uPAR protein and to uPAR-expressing monocytic and human bronchial epithelial cells, it was shown that exposure of uPAR to soluble HAT in the range of 10-500 nM resulted in the proteolytic processing of the full-length (D1D2D3) into the truncated (D2D3) species, with cleavage occurring in the D1 to D2 linker sequence after arginine residues at position 83 and 89. Using immunohistochemistry, we found that both HAT and uPAR were expressed in the human bronchial epithelium. Moreover, transient cotransfection in epithelial cells showed that membrane coexpression of the two partners produced a constitutive and extensive shedding of the D1 domain, occurring for membrane-associated HAT concentrations in the nanomolar range. Because the truncated receptor was found to be unable to bind two of the major uPAR ligands, the adhesive matrix protein vitronectin and the serine protease urokinase, it thus appears that proteolytic regulation of uPAR by HAT is likely to modulate cell adherence and motility, as well as tissue remodeling during the inflammatory response in the airways.
SOS regulation of the type III secretion system of enteropathogenic Escherichia coli.	Genomes of bacterial pathogens contain and coordinately regulate virulence-associated genes in order to cause disease. Enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC), a major cause of watery diarrhea in infants and a model gram-negative pathogen, expresses a type III secretion system (TTSS) that is encoded by the locus of enterocyte effacement (LEE) and is necessary for causing attaching and effacing intestinal lesions. Effector proteins encoded by the LEE and in cryptic prophage are injected into the host cell cytoplasm by the TTTS apparatus, ultimately leading to diarrhea. The LEE is comprised of multiple polycistronic operons, most of which are controlled by the global, positive regulator Ler. Here we demonstrated that the LEE2 and LEE3 operons also responded to SOS signaling and that this regulation was LexA dependent. As determined by a DNase I protection assay, purified LexA protein bound in vitro to a predicted SOS box located in the divergent, overlapping LEE2/LEE3 promoters. Expression of the lexA1 allele, encoding an uncleavable LexA protein in EPEC, resulted in reduced secretion, particularly in the absence of the Ler regulator. Finally, we obtained evidence that the cryptic phage-located nleA gene encoding an effector molecule is SOS regulated. Thus, we demonstrated, for the first time to our knowledge, that genes encoding components of a TTSS are regulated by the SOS response, and our data might explain how a subset of EPEC effector proteins, encoded in cryptic prophages, are coordinately regulated with the LEE-encoded TTSS necessary for their translocation into host cells.
Impact of the molecular form of immunoglobulin A on functional activity in defense against Streptococcus pneumoniae.	Antibodies of the immunoglobulin A (IgA) class react with capsular polysaccharides of Streptococcus pneumoniae and support complement-dependent opsonophagocytosis (OPC) of the organism by phagocytes. We characterized the biologic impact of the molecular forms of human monoclonal capsule-specific IgA (monomeric IgA [mIgA], polymeric IgA [pIgA], and secretory IgA [SIgA]) on OPC and susceptibility to cleavage by IgA1 protease. The efficiency of SIgA in support of OPC of S. pneumoniae was comparable to that of pIgA, and both forms exceeded that of mIgA by a fivefold margin. This structure-function relationship was associated with three factors. First, the avidities, or functional affinities, of both pIgA and SIgA for pneumococcal capsules exceeded those of mIgA. Second, both pIgA and SIgA required less complement to achieve similar levels of bacterial OPC than did mIgA, indicating that secretory component does not hinder the effect of complement. Third, both pIgA and SIgA mediated agglutination of the organism, whereas mIgA did not. All three forms of capsule-specific IgA showed comparable susceptibilities to cleavage and functional inhibition by bacterial IgA1 protease, demonstrating that secretory component does not prevent the proteolytic degradation of IgA1 by IgA1 protease. IgA1 cleavage results in formation of identical Fab fragments for each of the molecular forms, thereby abolishing the contribution of multivalence of pIgA and SIgA. In summary, the polymeric forms of IgA (both pIgA and SIgA) provide a substantial advantage in binding, agglutination, and OPC of the organism.
Endofin, a FYVE domain protein, interacts with Smad4 and facilitates transforming growth factor-beta signaling.	Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) signaling is facilitated by scaffold proteins such as SARA (Smad anchor for receptor activation). Endofin, a member of the FYVE domain protein family, has been suggested to regulate membrane trafficking. In this study, we report that endofin functions as a scaffold protein to facilitate TGF-beta signaling. Overexpression of endofin FYVE domain-deletion mutants inhibited TGF-beta-induced expression of CAGA-luciferase. Knockdown of endogenous endofin expression by RNA interference specifically led to reduction of the transcriptional responses of TGF-beta, but had no effect on BMP- or Wnt1-induced reporter expression. Furthermore, in endofin small interfering RNA-expressing stable cells, TGF-beta-mediated expression of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 and p21(Cip1) was significantly reduced, and TGF-beta-promoted apoptosis was also impaired. We further showed that endofin could interact with Smad4 and TGF-beta type I receptors. Reduction of endogenous endofin expression resulted in a decrease of TGF-beta-induced Smad2 phosphorylation and Smad2-Smad4 complex formation. Together, our findings suggest that endofin facilitates TGF-beta signaling as a scaffold protein to promote the R-Smad-Smad4 complex formation by bringing Smad4 to the proximity of the receptor complex.
Induction of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 release from A549 cells by agonists of protease-activated receptor-1 and -2.	Hypersecretion of cytokines and serine proteases has been observed in asthma. However, the influence of proteases and protease-activated receptors (PARs) on monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) release from airway epithelial cells remains largely unknown. In the present study, A549 cells were challenged with agonists of PARs, and levels of MCP-1 released in the supernatant and mRNA expression were examined by ELISA and real time polymerase chain reaction (PCR), respectively. The results show that thrombin, tryptase, elastase and trypsin induced an up to 6.5-, 1.8-, 1.6-, and 3.1-fold increase in MCP-1 release from A549 cells, respectively, following a 16-h incubation period. The protease-induced secretion of MCP-1 can be abolished by specific protease inhibitors. Agonist peptides of PAR-1 and PAR-2 stimulate MCP-1 secretion up to 15- and 12.7-fold, respectively. Real-time PCR showed that MCP-1 mRNA is up-regulated by the serine proteases tested and by agonist peptides of PAR-1 and PAR-2. In conclusion, serine proteases can stimulate MCP-1 release from A549 cells possibly through a PARs-related mechanism, suggesting that they are likely to contribute to MCP-1-related airway inflammatory disorders in man.
Nucleic acids potentiate Factor VII-activating protease (FSAP)-mediated cleavage of platelet-derived growth factor-BB and inhibition of vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation.	FSAP (Factor VII-activating protease) can cleave and inactivate PDGF-BB (platelet-derived growth factor-BB) and thereby inhibits VSMC (vascular smooth-muscle cell) proliferation. The auto-activation of FSAP is facilitated by negatively charged polyanions such as heparin, dextransulfate or extracellular ribonucleic acids. Since auto-activation is essential for the anti-proliferative function of FSAP, the influence of nucleic acids as cofactors for the FSAP-mediated inhibition of PDGF-BB was investigated. Natural or artificial RNA was an effective cofactor for FSAP mediated PDGF-BB degradation, whereas the effect of DNA was weak. RNA-induced cleavage of PDGF-BB was inhibited by serine protease inhibitors. The pattern of PDGF-BB cleavage was identical with either heparin or RNA as a cofactor. One of the cleavage sites in PDGF-BB was at the positions 160-162 (R160KK162), which is an important region for receptor binding and activation. In VSMCs, PDGF-BB-stimulated DNA synthesis was inhibited by FSAP in the presence of RNA. RNA was more effective than DNA and the cofactor activity of RNA was neutralized after pretreatment with RNase. FSAP binding to RNA protected the nucleic acid from degradation by RNase. These data are relevant to situations where extracellular nucleic acids released from necrotic or apoptotic cells could activate local FSAP, leading to inhibition of PDGF-BB.
Polymorphism R62W results in resistance of CD23 to enzymatic cleavage in cultured cells.	A nonsynonymous single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) of the low-affinity IgE receptor (FcvarepsilonRII/CD23) gene resulting in an arginine to tryptophan exchange at amino-acid position 62 (R62W) has been associated with enhanced T-cell responses to antigen in allergic subjects. To explore the mechanism, a CD23(a) cDNA was cloned into the plasmid pCMVScript-CD23a-C with a C allele (R62). The pCMVScript-CD23a-T with T (W62) was produced using a site-directed mutagenesis approach. The pCMVScript-CD23a-C only (CC), mixture of pCMVScript-CD23a-T and pCMVSCript-CD23a-C (CT) and pCMVScript-CD23a-T only (TT) plasmids were transfected in Cos-7 cells at equivalence in transfection efficiency. No soluble CD23 was released from TT transfectants whereas a higher level of soluble CD23 was detected in CC than in CT transfectants. Human leukocyte elastase (HLE), cathepsin G, the dust mite allergen Der p I and ADAM 33 (A disintegrin and metalloproteinase) were found to cleave membrane CD23 in CC but not in TT transfectants, implying the resistance of CD23 to enzymatic cleavage associated with T mutant. Addition of tunicamycin resulted in the resistance of CD23 to Der p I mediated cleavage in CC but no change in TT transfectants. These results indicate that R62W influences the stability of membrane CD23 molecules due to possibly diminished N-glycosylation.
C-Npys (S-3-nitro-2-pyridinesulfenyl) and peptide derivatives can inhibit a serine-thiol proteinase activity from Paracoccidioides brasiliensis.	The inhibitory capacity of C-Npys (S-[3-nitro-2-pyridinesulfenyl]) derivatives over thiol-containing serine proteases has never been tested. In the present work we used an extracellular serine-thiol proteinase activity from the fungal pathogen Paracoccidioides brasiliensis (PbST) to describe a potent inhibitory capacity of Bzl-C(Npys)KRLTL-NH(2) and Bzl-MKRLTLC(Npys)-NH(2). The assays were performed with PbST enriched upon affinity chromatography in a p-aminobenzamidine (pABA)-Sepharose column. Although PbST can cleave the fluorescence resonance energy transfer peptide Abz-MKRLTL-EDDnp between L-T, the C(Npys) derivatives were not substrates nor were they toxic in a cell detachment assay, allowing therapeutic use. The best inhibitor was Bzl-C(Npys)KRLTL-NH(2) (K(i)=16nM), suggesting that the peptide sequence promoted a favorable interaction, especially when C(Npys) was placed at a further position from the L-T bond, at the N-terminus. Inhibition was completely reverted with dithioerythritol, indicating that it was due to the reactivity of the C(Npys) moiety with a free SH- group.
A variant TMPRSS2 isoform and ERG fusion product in prostate cancer with implications for molecular diagnosis.	Prostate cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer among men in the United States. Recently, fusion of TMPRSS2 with ETS family oncogenic transcription factors has been identified as a common molecular alteration in prostate cancer, where most often the rearrangement places ERG under the androgen-regulated transcriptional control of TMPRSS2. Here, we carried out rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) on a prostate cancer specimen carrying an atypical aberration discovered by array-based comparative genomic hybridization (array CGH), suggesting an alternative fusion partner of ERG. We identified novel transcribed sequences fused to ERG, mapping 4 kb upstream of the TMPRSS2 start site. The sequences derive from an apparent second TMPRSS2 isoform, which we found also expressed in some prostate tumors, suggesting similar androgen-regulated control. In a reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR)-based survey of 63 prostate tumor specimens (54 primary and nine lymph node metastases), 44 (70%) cases expressed either the known or novel variant TMPRSS2-ERG fusion, 28 (44%) expressed both, 10 (16%) expressed only the known, and notably six (10%) expressed only the variant isoform fusion. In this specimen set, the presence of a TMPRSS2-ERG fusion showed no statistical association with tumor stage, Gleason grade or recurrence-free survival. Nonetheless, the discovery of a novel variant TMPRSS2 isoform-ERG fusion adds to the characterization of ETS-family rearrangements in prostate cancer, and has important implications for the accurate molecular diagnosis of TMPRSS2-ETS fusions.
Localization of the transcriptional coactivator PGC-1alpha to GABAergic neurons during maturation of the rat brain.	The transcriptional coactivator peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma coactivator 1alpha (PGC-1alpha) can activate a number of transcription factors to regulate mitochondrial biogenesis and cell-specific responses to cold, fasting, and exercise. Recent studies indicate that PGC-1alpha knockout mice exhibit behavioral abnormalities and progressive vacuolization in various brain regions. To investigate the roles for PGC-1alpha in the nervous system, we evaluated the temporal and cell-specific expression of PGC-1alpha in the normal developing rat brain. Western blot of whole brain homogenates with a PGC-1alpha-specific antibody revealed that PGC-1alpha protein was most abundant in the embryonic and early postnatal forebrain and cerebellum. Using quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), we determined that PGC-1alpha mRNA expression increased most markedly between postnatal days 3 (P3) and 14 in the cortex, striatum, and hippocampus. Immunohistochemical and immunofluorescence analyses of brain tissue indicated that while PGC-1alpha was found in most neuronal populations from embryonic day 15 to P3, it was specifically concentrated in GABAergic populations from P3 to adulthood. Interestingly, PGC-1alpha colocalized with the developmentally regulated chemoattractant reelin in the cortex and hippocampus, and the survival-promoting transcription factor myocyte enhancing factor 2 was highly concentrated in GABAergic populations in the striatum and cerebellum at times of PGC-1alpha expression. These results implicate PGC-1alpha as a regulator of metabolism and/or survival in GABAergic neurons during a phase of mitochondrial and synaptic changes in the developing brain and suggest that PGC-1alpha may be a good target for increasing metabolism in GABAergic populations in neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative disorders.
A pilot study of fecal serine-protease activity: a pathophysiologic factor in diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome.	The pathogenesis of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) remains only partially understood, and no specific or universally effective patient management procedure has been developed to date. Our study was designed to evaluate if colonic luminal serine-proteases may be a relevant pathophysiologic marker of IBS.
Reelin immunoreactivity and morphological analysis of the human visual cortex.	Reelin is a secreted glycoprotein with a crucial role in development of the Central Nervous System. In adults, its function remains unclear but it may be involved in the modulation of synaptic plasticity. Having in mind this possible property of reelin, the authors decided to study the distribution of reelin immunoreactivity in the neurons of the human adult primary visual cortex and compare the findings with morphological analysis (Golgi method) of neuronal networks. The distribution of reelin in the primary visual cortex is different from other cortical area examined; reelin is mostly present in the neurons of second and sixth layer.
The sulfate groups of chondroitin sulfate- and heparan sulfate-containing proteoglycans in neutrophil plasma membranes are novel binding sites for human leukocyte elastase and cathepsin G.	Human leukocyte elastase (HLE) and cathepsin G (CG) are expressed at high levels on the surface of activated human neutrophils (PMN) in catalytically active but inhibitor-resistant forms having the potential to contribute to tissue injury. Herein we have investigated the mechanisms by which HLE and CG bind to PMN plasma membranes. (125)I-Labeled HLE and CG bind to PMN at 0 degrees C in a saturable and reversible manner (K(D) = 5.38 and 4.36 x 10(-7) m and 11.5 and 8.1 x 10(6) binding sites/cell, respectively). Incubation of PMN with radiolabeled HLE and CG in the presence of a 200-fold molar excess of unlabeled HLE, CG, myeloperoxidase, lactoferrin, proteinase 3, phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF)-inactivated HLE, or PMSF-inactivated CG inhibited binding of radiolabeled ligands. This indicates that these PMN granule proteins share binding sites on PMN and that functional active sites of HLE and CG are not required for their binding to PMN. The sulfate groups of heparan sulfate- and chondroitin sulfate-containing proteoglycans are the PMN binding sites for HLE and CG since binding of HLE and CG to PMN was inhibited by incubating PMN with 1) trypsin, chondroitinase ABC, and heparitinases, but not other glycanases, and 2) purified chondroitin sulfates, heparan sulfate, and other sulfated molecules, but not with non-sulfated glycans. Thus, heparan sulfate- and chondroitin sulfate-containing proteoglycans are low affinity, high volume PMN surface binding sites for HLE and CG, which are well suited to bind high concentrations of active serine proteinases released from degranulating PMN.
Migration of sympathetic preganglionic neurons in the spinal cord is regulated by Reelin-dependent Dab1 tyrosine phosphorylation and CrkL.	The actions of Reelin in neuronal positioning in the developing cortex and cerebellum are relayed by Src-family kinase (SFK)-mediated phosphorylation of Dab1. Biochemical studies show that after phosphorylation Dab1 binds to an adaptor protein, CrkL. Whether CrkL is important for Reelin signaling in vivo is unknown, because crkl(-/-) embryos die before cortical development is complete. In the developing spinal cord, Reelin and components of its signaling pathway, VLDLR, ApoER2, and Dab1, control the positioning of sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPN); however, it is not known whether SFKs or Dab1 tyrosine phosphorylation is required. In the present study, we asked whether Reelin-controlled SPN migration depends on tyrosine phosphorylation of Dab1 by SFKs and whether CrkL is involved in SPN migration. To answer these questions, we examined the location of SPN in various mutant mouse embryos. Results showed that, in dab1(5F/5F) embryos, which express a nonphosphorylated mutant of Dab1, and in src(-/-)fyn(-/-) double knockout embryos, the location of SPN is identical to that of reeler. These results show that tyrosine phosphorylation of Dab1 by SFKs is required for Reelin-regulated SPN positioning. In addition, we found that SPN migration in crkl(-/-) showed a partial reeler phenotype, suggesting a partial loss of response of SPN to Reelin signaling. These results suggest a role for CrkL in the Reelin signaling pathway to control neuronal migration.
Activities of prolyl endopeptidase and dipeptidyl peptidase IV in brain structures of rats with dopamine deficiency-dependent MPTP-induced depressive syndrome.	The development of MPTP-induced depressive syndrome in rats was accompanied by activation of prolyl endopeptidase and dipeptidyl peptidase IV in the brain frontal cortex. Prolyl endopeptidase activity in the striatum also increased under these conditions. Our results indicate that proline-specific peptidases in the target structures of the brain dopaminergic system are involved in the pathogenesis of dopamine deficiency-dependent depressive states.
Signal-CF: a subsite-coupled and window-fusing approach for predicting signal peptides.	We have developed an automated method for predicting signal peptide sequences and their cleavage sites in eukaryotic and bacterial protein sequences. It is a 2-layer predictor: the 1st-layer prediction engine is to identify a query protein as secretory or non-secretory; if it is secretory, the process will be automatically continued with the 2nd-layer prediction engine to further identify the cleavage site of its signal peptide. The new predictor is called Signal-CF, where C stands for "coupling" and F for "fusion", meaning that Signal-CF is formed by incorporating the subsite coupling effects along a protein sequence and by fusing the results derived from many width-different scaled windows through a voting system. Signal-CF is featured by high success prediction rates with short computational time, and hence is particularly useful for the analysis of large-scale datasets. Signal-CF is freely available as a web-server at http://chou.med.harvard.edu/bioinf/Signal-CF/ or http://202.120.37.186/bioinf/Signal-CF/.
Processing of Reelin by embryonic neurons is important for function in tissue but not in dissociated cultured neurons.	Reelin, the protein defective in reeler mutant mice, plays a key role during brain development. Reelin is processed proteolytically at two sites, and the central fragment mimics function in vitro. Here, we show that processing is functionally important in vivo, a question that could not be addressed in our previous study. New monoclonal antibodies directed against central Reelin block its binding to lipoprotein receptors and perturb cortical development in vitro, confirming the importance of the central fragment that is detected in tissue and body fluids. Processing occurs when Reelin is incubated with embryonic neurons in culture or with their supernatant, but inhibition of processing by a metalloproteinase blocker does not prevent Reelin signaling in neurons. Furthermore, neurons internalize similarly full-length or central Reelin. In contrast, inhibition of processing prevents signaling and perturbs cortical development in cultured embryonic brain slices. Moreover, in vivo, the concentration of central Reelin is dramatically and selectively increased in receptor-deficient tissue, suggesting its specific downregulation after binding to receptors and internalization. We propose that processing by end-migration neurons is required in tissue (where Reelin is likely anchored to the extracellular matrix) to release the central fragment that diffuses locally and signals to target cells, whereas, in vitro, all Reelin forms have indiscriminate access to cells, so that cleavage is not necessary for signaling.
Identification of the site of human mannan-binding lectin involved in the interaction with its partner serine proteases: the essential role of Lys55.	Mannan-binding lectin (MBL) is an oligomeric lectin that binds neutral carbohydrates on pathogens, forms complexes with MBL-associated serine proteases (MASP)-1, -2, and -3 and 19-kDa MBL-associated protein (MAp19), and triggers the complement lectin pathway through activation of MASP-2. To identify the MASP binding site(s) of human MBL, point mutants targeting residues C-terminal to the hinge region were produced and tested for their interaction with the MASPs and MAp19 using surface plasmon resonance and functional assays. Mutation Lys(55)Ala abolished interaction with the MASPs and MAp19 and prevented formation of functional MBL-MASP-2 complexes. Mutations Lys(55)Gln and Lys(55)Glu abolished binding to MASP-1 and -3 and strongly inhibited interaction with MAp19. Conversely, mutation Lys(55)Arg abolished interaction with MASP-2 and MAp19, but only weakened interaction with MASP-1 and -3. Mutation Arg(47)Glu inhibited interaction with MAp19 and decreased the ability of MBL to trigger the lectin pathway. Mutant Arg(47)Lys showed no interaction with the MASPs or MAp19, likely resulting from a defect in oligomerization. In contrast, mutation Arg(47)Ala had no impact on the interaction with the MASPs and MAp19, nor on the ability of MBL to trigger the lectin pathway. Mutation Pro(53)Ala only had a slight effect on the interaction with MASP-1 and -3, whereas mutations at residues Leu(49) and Leu(56) were ineffective. In conclusion, the MASP binding site of MBL involves a sequence stretch centered on residue Lys(55), which may form an ionic bond representing the major component of the MBL-MASP interaction. The binding sites for MASP-2/MAp19 and MASP-1/3 have common features but are not strictly identical.
Oxidative stress and protease dysfunction in the yeast model of Friedreich ataxia.	Friedreich ataxia has frequently been associated with an increased susceptibility to oxidative stress. We used the yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) model of Friedreich ataxia to study the physiological consequences of a shift from anaerobiosis to aerobiosis. Cells lacking frataxin (Deltayfh1) showed no growth defect when cultured anaerobically. Under these conditions, a significant amount of aconitase was functional, with an intact 4 Fe/4 S cluster. When shifted to aerobic conditions, aconitase was rapidly degraded, and oxidatively modified proteins (carbonylated and HNE-modified proteins) accumulated in both the cytosol and the mitochondria. The ATP-dependent mitochondrial protease Pim1 (Lon) was strongly activated, although its expression level remained unchanged, and the cytosolic activity of the 20S proteasome was greatly decreased, compared to that in wild-type cells. Analysis of the purified proteasome revealed that the decrease in proteasome activity was likely due to both direct inactivation of the enzyme and inhibition by cytosolic oxidized proteins. These features indicate that the cells were subjected to major oxidative stress triggered by oxygen. Accumulation of oxidatively modified proteins, activation of Pim1, and proteasome inhibition did not directly depend on the amount of mitochondrial iron, because these phenotypes remained unchanged when the cells were grown under iron-limiting conditions, and these phenotypes were not observed in another mutant (Deltaggc1) which overaccumulates iron in its mitochondrial compartment. We conclude that oxygen is primarily involved in generating the deleterious phenotypes that are observed in frataxin-deficient yeast cells.
The macrophage-stimulating protein pathway promotes metastasis in a mouse model for breast cancer and predicts poor prognosis in humans.	A better understanding of tumor metastasis requires development of animal models that authentically reproduce the metastatic process. By modifying an existing mouse model of breast cancer, we discovered that macrophage-stimulating protein promoted breast tumor growth and metastasis to several organs. A special feature of our findings was the occurrence of osteolytic bone metastases, which are prominent in human breast cancer. To explore the clinical relevance of our model, we examined expression levels of three genes involved in activation of the MSP signaling pathway (MSP, MT-SP1, and MST1R) in human breast tumors. We found that overexpression of MSP, MT-SP1, and MST1R was a strong independent indicator of both metastasis and death in human breast cancer patients and significantly increased the accuracy of an existing gene expression signature for poor prognosis. These data suggest that signaling initiated by MSP is an important contributor to metastasis of breast cancer and introduce an independent biomarker for assessing the prognosis of humans with breast cancer.
Analysis of the structure of prolactin terminal fragments as potential substrates of serine and proline-specific proteinases]	The biochemical mechanism of action of prolactin is unknown. This hormone enters the blood stream and binds to receptors predominantly in the monomeric form. A structural analysis of mammalian and piscine prolactin based on the present-day concepts of proteolytic processing of the hormone molecules in target tissues has been carried out. The experimental data suggest that prolactin molecules are protected from exopeptidase influence by their terminal cyclic peptides. The highly conservative proline-2 residues increase the resistance of the mammalian hormone N-terminal fragment to the effects of many aminopeptidases. Structurally the C-terminal cyclic peptides of prolactin, growth hormone and placental lactogen were shown to be homologous to peptides inhibiting trypsin-like proteinases. A structural analysis of the N-terminal domain of mammalian prolactin revealed the important role of Pro-2 and Pro-4 residues at positions adjacent with and inside the disulfide moiety. It is assumed that these proline residues and the cyclic structure are necessary for the manifestation of the inhibiting effect of the mammalian prolactin N-terminal dodecapeptide on proline-specific proteinases. It is assumed that proteolytic degradation of prolactin molecules in target tissues may induce the secretion of functionally active peptides.
Kallikrein 11 expressed in human breast cancer cells releases insulin-like growth factor through degradation of IGFBP-3.	Expression of human kallikrein 11 (hK11), secreted as a trypsin-like serine protease, is related to the prognosis of some human cancers, but its physiological functions in the steps of cancer progression are still unknown. In order to elucidate the enzymatic function of hK11 we investigated the substrate of hK11 and expression of KLK11, the gene encoding hK11. Among 20 human cancer cell lines tested, two estrogen receptor possessing [ER(+)] breast cancers showed the highest expression of KLK11. The investigation of the hK11 substrate showed that hK11 could degrade itself and insulin-like growth factor (IGF) binding protein 3 (IGFBP-3). Expression of KLK11 was detected in both human breast cancer tissue and in non-cancerous mammary glands, and significantly higher KLK11 expression was observed in histological grade I/II than in grade III breast cancers. The above results indicate that the hK11 expressed in ER(+) breast cancer cells may play a crucial role in breast cancer progression by increasing the bioavailability of IGFs via degradation of IGFBP-3.
Unravelling the functional significance of PCSK9.	Proprotein convertase subtilisin kexin type 9 (PCSK9) has emerged as a potential target for lowering plasma LDL cholesterol levels. This review summarizes recent studies published in print or online before January 2007 which have investigated the functional significance of this intriguing protease.
The role played by serine proteases in the development and worsening of vascular complications in type 1 diabetes mellitus.	Much attention has been given to the role played by serine proteases in the development and worsening of vascular complications in Type 1 diabetes mellitus. A generalized increase in proteolytic activity, either due to a true increase in concentration of specific proteases or defects of their protease inhibitors, represents an early marker of diabetes. However, the precise molecular mechanism whereby an unopposed proteolytic activity leads to overt vascular alterations has not fully been elucidated as yet. The picture is further complicated by the fact that, although sharing the same function, serine proteases constitute a structurally heterogeneous class of molecules. Besides classical proteases, for most part belonging to coagulative and fibrinolytic systems, other unrelated molecules exhibit serine-like protease activity and are capable of triggering both inflammatory and immune reactions. The specific role of these non classical serine proteases in the complex pathogenesis of diabetes and its vascular complications is attracting a new investigative interest, as these molecules may represent additional therapeutic targets. This review will focus on most recent acquisitions on this issue relevant to Type 1 diabetes.
Production of synergistic but nonidentical mechanisms of immunosuppression by rapamycin and cyclosporine.	We report that the mechanism of rapamycin (RAP) inhibition is synergistic, but nonidentical, to the mechanism of CsA inhibition. Like CsA, RAP inhibits T cell proliferation following mitogen (PHA) and/or alloantigen (MLR) stimulation. RAP levels of 100, 33, 11, 3.6, 1.2, and less than 1 ng/ml reduced PHA stimulation by 81%, 84%, 81%, 83%, 62%, and 33%, respectively, without cytotoxicity. The RAP concentration required to achieve 50% proliferative inhibition of either mitogen (PHA) or MLR assays revealed an interindividual variability of 5 pg/ml RAP (2 individuals), 1 ng/ml (3 individuals), and 100 ng/ml (2 individuals). Unlike CsA, RAP proliferative inhibition was not restricted to the G0 phase of the cell cycle. Addition of 100, 10, or 1 ng/ml RAP at the onset (G0), or 24 hr following cultivation (G1) similarly inhibited DNA synthesis by 42%, 42%, and 41% compared with 44%, 48%, and 47%, respectively. PWM-stimulated B cell proliferation was primarily RAP-sensitive during the G0 phase of the cell cycle. RAP at 100, 10, and 1 ng/ml inhibited B cell proliferation 46%, 51%, and 50% when added during G0 but only 15%, 20%, and 20% when added during G1. Generation of a cyclosporine-sensitive cytoplasmic activation signal, activator of DNA replication (ADR), was reduced by RAP. RAP reduction did not correlate directly with T cell proliferative inhibition (as does CsA). RAP-induced proliferative inhibition of 40% and 80% resulted in ADR inhibition of 16% and 33%. Proliferative inhibition was synergistically increased when CsA and RAP were used in combination, whereas ADR inhibition was only additively enhanced. Mechanistic disparity between RAP and CsA may potentiate clinical immunosuppression when RAP and CsA are used together.
Modulation of type II Fc gamma receptor expression on activated human B lymphocytes.	We have monitored Fc gamma RII expression during the activation of human B lymphocytes by simultaneous analysis of monoclonal antibody (mAb) binding and EA rosetting. The expression of Fc gamma RII showed a biphasic time course. Initially, a transient increase of Fc gamma RII with no ligand-binding capacity was observed with mAb staining as early as 10 min after stimulation by the F(ab')2 fragment of anti-human IgM or phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate and then after 3 to 24 h a decrease in the number of Fc gamma RII+ cells was seen. Trypsin-like serine protease activity also appeared in the lysate of activated B cells at this time. On the 2nd day of activation a significant enhancement of Fc gamma RII expression was observed, mainly on enlarged blast cells as monitored by both mAb and by ligand binding (EA rosette). At the same time, soluble fragments of Fc gamma RII with the ability to bind human Fc were detected in the supernatant of activated B cells, probably as a result of proteolytic cleavage. These findings suggest that activated B cells are identical with the population of mononuclear cells which shed Fc gamma R when incubated at 37 degrees C. The ability of activated but not resting B cells to release Fc gamma RII correlates with the expression of early activation markers and with the appearance of a trypsin-like serine protease activity of the same cells; thus, the release of Fc gamma RII occurs in the early G1 phase of cell cycle as a result of proteolysis. Later the release of Fc gamma RII is accompanied by the enhancement of Fc gamma RII expression before the cells reach the S phase. The fragments of cleaved Fc gamma RII had an apparent molecular mass of 33 and 14-18 kDa under nonreducing conditions, and upon reduction fragments of smaller size were observed.
Structure--function relationship of the human erythrocyte plasma membrane Ca(2+)-ATPase revealed by V8 protease treatment.	Treatment of the solubilized and purified Ca(2+)-translocating ATPase (Ca(2+)-ATPase) (136 kDa) from human erythrocyte plasma membranes with endoproteinase Glu-C from Staphylococcus aureus strain V8 (V8 protease) yielded transient fragments of 96 kDa and 76 kDa and more stable fragments of 60 kDa and 37/36 kDa (doublet). The presence of calmodulin did not alter the fragmentation pattern. The 60 kDa fragment contains the protein kinase C (bovine brain) phosphorylation site(s), which we previously localized in the C-terminal region [Wang, Wright, Machan, Allen, Conigrave & Roufogalis (1991) J. Biol. Chem. 266, 9078-9085]. On the other hand, the 37/36 kDa fragments possess the ability to form an acyl-phosphate intermediate. Furthermore, the presence of the 60 kDa and 37/36 kDa fragments together results in expression of calmodulin-sensitive Ca(2+)-ATPase activity. However, further degradation of the 60 kDa fragment was coupled with the appearance of calmodulin-independent activity, whereas the 37/36 kDa fragment doublet remained stable. It was concluded that the 60 kDa and the 37/36 kDa fragments: (a) together represent the C-terminal two-thirds of the enzyme, which is functional as an Ca(2+)-ATPase, (b) were produced by a single cleavage near the C-terminal side of the cytosolic catalytic domain, and (c) probably remain physically and functionally associated even after cleavage has occurred. At the C-terminus, the basic calmodulin-binding domain is flanked by two highly acidic regions (domains A and B). Our results indicate that domains A and B, despite containing many Asp and Glu residues, were not readily cleaved by V8 protease, which is known to cleave selectively peptide bonds at the C-terminal side of Asp and Glu. However, if the Ca(2+)-ATPase were pre-digested with calpain I from human erythrocytes, which removed its calmodulin-binding domain (along with domain B), multiple cleavages by V8 protease in domain A were then readily observed. We propose that the calmodulin-binding domain is closely associated with the acidic domains A and B and that these acidic domains might help to co-ordinate the stimulation of the enzyme by calmodulin.
Analysis of protease-sensitive regions in the skeletal muscle sodium channel in vitro and implications for channel tertiary structure.	The tertiary structure of the rat skeletal muscle sodium channel was probed in vitro by determining regions of sensitivity to V-8 protease, trypsin, and chymotrypsin. Resultant channel fragments were identified with antibodies to defined sequences distributed along the primary structure. The temporal pattern of proteolysis was followed with channel protein in either detergent-phospholipid micelles or membrane fragments as well as with channel exposed to sodium dodecyl sulfate. Proteolysis in micelles and membranes occurred in discrete, reproducible steps that were similar in both systems. Although the size of intermediates varied slightly, their sequence of appearance was similar for all enzymes, suggesting that the observed pattern was determined by the relative accessibility of selected sites in the tertiary structure. No major change in channel organization appeared to occur after solubilization of membranes in nonionic detergents. Highly accessible sites in the native structure included the carboxyl terminus and the region linking the second and third internal repeat domains, while the amino terminus and the repeat domains themselves were relatively resistant to proteolysis unless the protein was denatured. Kinetically, interdomain II-III was the most readily cleaved; interdomains I-II and especially III-IV were less easily accessible. While domains I and IV appeared to remain intact throughout our experiments, limit fragments for epitopes associated with domains II and III suggest that cleavage eventually occurs at sites between the putative S5 and S6 helices in these domains.
An unusual mitochondrial import pathway for the precursor to yeast cytochrome c oxidase subunit Va.	We have studied the import of the precursor to yeast cytochrome c oxidase subunit Va, a protein of the mitochondrial inner membrane. Like the majority of mitochondrial precursor proteins studied thus far, import of presubunit Va was dependent upon both a membrane potential (delta psi) and the hydrolysis of ATP. However, the levels of ATP necessary for the import of presubunit Va were significantly lower than those required for the import of a different mitochondrial precursor protein, the beta subunit of the F1-ATPase. The rate of import of presubunit Va was found to be unaffected by temperature over the range 0 to 30 degrees C, and was not facilitated by prior denaturation of the protein. These results, in conjunction with those of an earlier study demonstrating that presubunit Va could be efficiently targeted to mitochondria with minimal presequences, suggest that the subunit Va precursor normally exists in a loosely folded conformation. Presubunit Va could also be imported into mitochondria that had been pretreated with high concentrations of trypsin or proteinase K (1 mg/ml and 200 micrograms/ml, respectively). Furthermore, the rate of import into trypsin-treated mitochondria, at both 0 and 30 degrees C, was identical to that observed with the untreated organelles. Thus, import of presubunit Va is not dependent upon the function of a protease-sensitive surface receptor. When taken together, the results of this study suggest that presubunit Va follows an unusual import pathway. While this pathway uses several well-established translocation steps, in its entirety it is distinct from either the receptor-independent pathway used by apocytochrome c, or the more general pathway used by a majority of mitochondrial precursor proteins.
Characterisation of midgut digestive proteases from the maize stem borer Busseola fusca.	Insect damage is a major constraint on maize production. Control of Busseola fusca (Fuller) in sub-Saharan Africa is relatively ineffective; the major larval digestive enzymes were characterised with a view to developing future control strategies.
Trypsin can activate the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) in microdissected mouse distal nephron.	Proteases are involved in the processing and activation of the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC). The aim of the present study was to investigate whether the prototypical serine protease trypsin can activate ENaC in microdissected, split-open mouse renal distal tubules. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from principal cells of connecting tubules (CNT) or cortical collecting ducts (CCD) demonstrated that addition of trypsin (20 microg/ml) to the bath solution increased the ENaC-mediated amiloride-sensitive whole cell current (DeltaIAmi) in the majority of cells. In contrast, trypsin applied in the presence of an excess of soybean trypsin inhibitor had no stimulatory effect. The DeltaIAmi response to trypsin was variable, ranging from no apparent effect to a twofold increase in DeltaI(Ami) with an average stimulatory effect of 31 or 37% in mice on low-Na+ or standard Na+ diet, respectively. In cultured M-1 mouse collecting duct cells, a robust stimulatory effect of trypsin on DeltaIAmi was only observed in cells pretreated with protease inhibitors. This suggests that endogenous proteases contribute to ENaC activation in renal tubular cells and that the degree of ENaC prestimulation by endogenous proteases determines the magnitude of the stimulatory response to exogenous trypsin. In conclusion, we provide electrophysiological evidence that trypsin can stimulate ENaC activity in native renal mouse tubules. Thus, in the kidney, ENaC stimulation by extracellular proteases may be a relevant regulatory mechanism in vivo.
Expression and traffic of cellular prolyl oligopeptidase are regulated during cerebellar granule cell differentiation, maturation, and aging.	Prolyl oligopeptidase (POP) is an endopeptidase which cleaves short proline-containing neuropeptides, and it is involved in memory and learning. POP also has an intercellular function mediated through the inositol pathway, and has been involved in cell death. POP has been early considered as a housekeeping enzyme, but the recent research indicates that POP expression is regulated across tissues and intracellularly. In the brain, POP is exclusively expressed in neurons and most abundantly in pyramidal neurons of cerebral cortex, in the CA1 field neurons of hippocampus and in cerebellar Purkinje's cells. Intracellularly, POP is mainly present in the cytoplasm and some in intracellular membranes, like rough endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus. In this paper, we systematically studied the levels of expression of POP along the life of cerebellar granule cells (CGC) in culture and the distribution of POP within different intracellular compartments. We used the tight-binding inhibitor JTP-4819 covalently coupled with fluorescein (FJTP) as a tool to study the changes on expression and localization of POP protein. Our results indicate that POP activity levels are regulated during the life of the neurons. POP was found mainly in cytoplasm and neuronal projections, but at an early developmental phase significant amounts were found also in nuclei. Along the life of the neurons, POP activity fluctuated in 7-day cycles. In young neurons, the cytosolic POP activity was low but increased by maturation so that the activity peak coincided with full differentiation. Over aging, cytoplasmic POP was concentrated around nucleus, but the activity decreased with time. POP was also present in vesicles across the neuron. No major changes were seen in the nuclear or membrane bound POP over aging until activity disappeared upon neuronal death. This is the first time when POP was found in the nuclei of human neuronal cells.
TRAMP-mediated RNA surveillance prevents spurious entry of RNAs into the Schizosaccharomyces pombe siRNA pathway.	In the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe, the RNA interference (RNAi) machinery is required to generate small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) that mediate heterochromatic gene silencing. Efficient silencing also requires the TRAMP complex, which contains the noncanonical Cid14 poly(A) polymerase and targets aberrant RNAs for degradation. Here we use high-throughput sequencing to analyze Argonaute-associated small RNAs (sRNAs) in both the presence and absence of Cid14. Most sRNAs in fission yeast start with a 5' uracil, and we argue these are loaded most efficiently into Argonaute. In wild-type cells most sRNAs match to repeated regions of the genome, whereas in cid14Delta cells the sRNA profile changes to include major new classes of sRNAs originating from ribosomal RNAs and a tRNA. Thus, Cid14 prevents certain abundant RNAs from becoming substrates for the RNAi machinery, thereby freeing the RNAi machinery to act on its proper targets.
MicroRNA-9 modulates Cajal-Retzius cell differentiation by suppressing Foxg1 expression in mouse medial pallium.	Vertebrate brain hosts a diverse collection of microRNAs, but little is known about their functions in vivo. Here we propose that mouse microRNA-9 (miR-9) targets Foxg1 mRNAs for proper generation of Cajal-Retzius cells in the medial pallium. miR-9 expression is mediolaterally graded, being most intense in the cortical hem; it contrasts with the Foxg1 expression in a reciprocal gradient. The 3' untranslated regions of tetrapod, but not of teleost, Foxg1 mRNAs conserve miR-9 target sequences and are regulated by miR-9. Gain- and loss-of-function analyses of miR-9 showed that miR-9 negatively regulates endogenous Foxg1 protein level. Moreover, miR-9 overexpression in developing telencephalon at E11.5 by electroporation resulted in ectopic Reelin-positive cells over the cortex beyond the marginal zone. In addition, inhibition of endogenous miR-9 function by antisense oligonucleotides caused the regression of Wnt3a-positive cortical hem and reduction of reelin-, p73-, and NeuroD1-positive cells.
The endosperm-specific ZHOUPI gene of Arabidopsis thaliana regulates endosperm breakdown and embryonic epidermal development.	During Arabidopsis seed development, the growing embryo invades and consumes the surrounding endosperm tissue. The signalling pathways that coordinate the separation of the embryo from the endosperm and the concomitant breakdown of the endosperm are poorly understood. We have identified a novel bHLH transcription factor, ZHOUPI (ZOU), which mediates these processes. ZOU is expressed exclusively in the endosperm of developing seeds. It is activated in the central cell immediately after fertilization and is initially expressed uniformly in endosperm, subsequently resolving to the embryo surrounding region (ESR). However, zou mutant embryos have defects in cuticle formation and in epidermal cell adhesion, suggesting that ZOU functions non-autonomously to regulate embryonic development. In addition, the endosperm of zou mutant seeds fails to separate from the embryo, restricting embryo expansion and resulting in the production of shrivelled collapsed seeds. zou seeds retain more endosperm than do wild-type seeds at maturity, suggesting that ZOU also controls endosperm breakdown. We identify several target genes whose expression in the ESR is regulated by ZOU. These include ABNORMAL LEAF SHAPE1, which encodes a subtilisin-like protease previously shown to have a similar role to ZOU in regulating endosperm adhesion and embryonic epidermal development. However, expression of several other ESR-specific genes is independent of ZOU. Therefore, ZOU is not a general regulator of endosperm patterning, but rather controls specific signalling pathways that coordinate embryo invasion and breakdown of surrounding endosperm tissues.
Identification and characterization of small-molecule inhibitors of hepsin.	Hepsin is a type II transmembrane serine protease overexpressed in the majority of human prostate cancers. We recently demonstrated that hepsin promotes prostate cancer progression and metastasis and thus represents a potential therapeutic target. Here we report the identification of novel small-molecule inhibitors of hepsin catalytic activity. We utilized purified human hepsin for high-throughput screening of established drug and chemical diversity libraries and identified sixteen inhibitory compounds with IC(50) values against hepsin ranging from 0.23-2.31 microM and relative selectivity of up to 86-fold or greater. Two compounds are orally administered drugs established for human use. Four compounds attenuated hepsin-dependent pericellular serine protease activity in a dose dependent manner with limited or no cytotoxicity to a range of cell types. These compounds may be used as leads to develop even more potent and specific inhibitors of hepsin to prevent prostate cancer progression and metastasis.
The subtilisin Carlsberg pro-region is a membrane anchorage for two fusion proteins produced in Bacillus subtilis.	The extracellular serylprotease subtilisin Carlsberg (SubC) of Bacillus licheniformis is produced in a precursor form which includes a signal peptide (sp) and a pro-region. We have constructed a fusion protein in which the sp, pro-region and 38 amino acids (aa) at the N terminus of SubC were joined to the immunoglobulin (Ig) G-binding protein G produced by group G streptococci. The fused SubC::protein G was purified on IgG-Sepharose. IgG-binding material derived from membrane or supernatant fractions had different N termini, indicating that release from the membrane occurred only after removal of the pro-region. The proteolytic pattern was identical when SubC::protein G was produced in Bacillus subtilis 168 wild type or in a protease-deficient strain. The sp cleavage point was also defined in the membrane-derived material.
Induction of protease La under stress and its effect on intracellular proteolysis in Escherichia coli.	Induction of protease La was found to increase to higher extent in E. coli that had been treated with canavanine for longer period. However, hydrolysis of canavanine-containing proteins occurred rapidly but at nearly an identical rate regardless of the period of canavanine-treatment. Exposure of E. coli to heat also raised the level of protease La but showed little effect on overall rate of proteolysis. These results suggest that induction of protease La under stress occurs as a part of heat shock response but not necessarily for elimination of denatured or abnormal proteins.
Arresting tissue invasion of a parasite by protease inhibitors chosen with the aid of computer modeling.	Computer modeling of the three-dimensional structure of an enzyme, based upon its primary sequence alone, is a potentially powerful tool to elucidate the function of enzymes as well as design specific inhibitors. The cercarial (larval) protease from the blood fluke Schistosoma mansoni is a serine protease hypothesized to assist the schistosome parasite in invading the human circulatory system via the skin. A three-dimensional model of the protease was built, taking advantage of the similarity of the sequence of the cercarial enzyme to the trypsin-like class of serine proteases. A large hydrophobic S-1 binding pocket, suspected from previous kinetic studies, was located in the model and confirmed by new kinetic studies with both synthetic peptide substrates and inhibitors. Unexpected structural characteristics of the enzyme were also predicted by the model, including a large S-4 binding pocket, again confirmed by assays with synthetic peptides. The model was then used to design a peptide inhibitor with 4-fold increased solubility, and a series of synthetic inhibitors were tested against live cercariae invading human skin to confirm that predictions of the model were also applicable in a biologic assay.
Polyphosphate and omptins: novel bacterial procoagulant agents.	Derangement of the blood clotting system contributes strongly to multiple organ failure in severe sepsis. In this review, we examine two microbial modulators of the clotting system: polyphosphates and omptins. Polyphosphates are linear polymers of inorganic phosphate that are abundant in the acidocalcisomes of prokaryotes and unicellular organisms as well as in the dense granules of human platelets. Polyphosphates modulate haemostasis by: (1) triggering clotting via the contact pathway; (2) accelerating the activation of coagulation factor V (a key cofactor in blood clotting) and (3) causing fibrin to form clots whose fibrils are thicker and more resistant to fibrinolysis. While polyphosphates are found in all prokaryotes, omptins have a more limited distribution among certain Gram-negative species. Omptins are outer membrane aspartyl proteases which were recently found to proteolytically inactivate tissue factor pathway inhibitor (TFPI), the main inhibitor of the initiation phase of blood clotting. Omptin activity against TFPI requires lipopolysaccharide without O-antigen (rough LPS) such as is found on the surface of Yersinia pestis, the etiologic agent of plague. Interestingly, expression of Pla, the Yersinia pestis omptin, has a demonstrated virulence role in converting plasminogen into the fibrinolytic enzyme plasmin, which would seemingly antagonize any procoagulant effect of TFPI inactivation. However, since the rate of TFPI inactivation is much higher than the rate of plasminogen activation, we suggest that Pla may have a dual function in supporting the bubonic form of plague which is unique to Yersinia pestis.
Pleiotropic effects of atorvastatin on monocytes in atherosclerotic patients.	The objective of this study was to investigate the gene expression signature of monocyte/macrophages and the pleiotropic effects of atorvastatin on monocytes in atherosclerotic patients. Forty patients with coronary heart diseases were randomly assigned to double-blind therapy with either 20 or 80 mg per day of atorvastatin. Follow-up visits occurred at weeks 6 and 12, including complete chemistry and lipid analyses and quantification of 14 target genes in monocytes. After 12 weeks of therapy, both groups gained beneficial alterations in lipid profiles. Both groups experienced significant reductions in gene expression of lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2, CD13, leptin receptor, matrix metalloproteases-1, legumain, and prolyl oligopeptidase after 12 weeks of therapy. Only tumor protein 53 was increased in the atorvastatin 80-mg group. Moreover, nonsignificant interactions between dosage and duration of therapy were found. The pleiotropic effects of statins in atherosclerotic patients include increased expression of genes involved in apoptosis of monocyte/macrophage, inhibition of inflammatory responses, antioxidant properties, prevention of foam cell formation, and stabilization of atherosclerotic plaques. This property fuels potential clinical significance.
Neutral proteinases of human mononuclear phagocytes. Cellular differentiation markedly alters cell phenotype for serine proteinases, metalloproteinases, and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases.	Mononuclear phagocytes have the capacity to directly participate in extracellular matrix turnover via secretion of neutral proteinases. We have studied the effects of in vivo and in vitro differentiation upon cellular content or secretion of a spectrum of neutral proteinases, along with a counter-regulatory metalloproteinase inhibitor (TIMP). We found 1) matrix-degradative serine proteinases (leukocyte elastase and cathepsin G) were lost during cellular maturation and/or differentiation; 2) the 92-kDa type IV/type V collagenase and TIMP were secreted earliest in mononuclear phagocyte differentiation, whereas stromelysin secretion was observed only by LPS-stimulated alveolar macrophages; 3) exposure of alveolar macrophages, but not monocytes, to phorbol esters and LPS resulted in markedly augmented secretion of all studied metalloproteinases and TIMP; 4) monocyte-derived macrophages partially (but not completely) mimicked the metalloproteinase secretory phenotype of alveolar macrophages; and 5) the secretory phenotype of alveolar macrophages for interstitial collagenase (but not TIMP) was largely lost during in vitro culture. These results underscore the complexity of the process of differentiation in human mononuclear phagocytes, and provide insights into the variable capacity of mononuclear phagocytes to degrade extracellular matrix components. Moreover, we anticipate that human mononuclear phagocytes at various stages of differentiation will provide a useful model system for study of the variable regulation of secretion of human matrix-degrading metalloproteinases.
Failure of prolyl-peptidyl isomerase to mediate cyclosporine suppression of intracellular activation signal generation.	Cyclosporine blocks the generation of a cytoplasmic activation protein, activator of DNA replication (ADR). The recent demonstration that cyclophilin is a CsA-sensitive prolyl-peptidyl-isomerase (PPIase), has prompted speculation that CsA immunosuppression is mediated by PPIase interaction with activation signals like ADR. We report that PPIase converts ADR from an inactive to an active form, but the interaction is resistant to CsA. ADR is a sensitive marker of CsA immunosuppression. ADR, extracted from the cytoplasm of PBLs stimulated with PHA, is not detectable in the cytoplasm of resting cells. ADR is quantitated by measuring uptake of 3H/thymidine triphosphate (3H/TPP) into isolated nuclei as a measure of DNA synthesis. The CsA-induced reduction of ADR content mirrored CsA-induced proliferative inhibition in intact cells. CsA concentrations of 1.5, 3, or 4.5 mM reduced T cell proliferation by 26%, 47%, and 58%, and ADR content by 32%, 45%, and 53%, respectively. The ability of PPIase to catalyze the transition of ADR between active and inactive forms was determined by measuring changes in DNA synthesis when 1 microgram/ml PPIase was added to (1) isolated nuclei, (2) nuclei plus ADR, and (3) nuclei plus the cytoplasmic fraction from resting cells. DNA synthesis in isolated nuclei (899 +/- 45 cpm) was unchanged by PPIase (1009 +/- 221 cpm). Addition of PPIase to ADR from activated cells marginally reduced ADR's capacity to trigger 3HTTP incorporation into isolated nuclei (ADR, 4113 +/- 106 cpm; PPIase-treated ADR, 3198 +/- 453 cpm), showing that PPIase cannot reduce ADR activity. However, treatment of resting cell cytoplasm with PPIase increased ADR activity 5-fold (899 +/- 46 vs. 5035 +/- 75 cpm). Addition of 1.5 or 3 mM CsA to resting cytoplasm, primed with PPIase (5035 +/- 75 cpm), resulted in 3HTPP incorporation of 6575 +/- 152 and 5076 +/- 168 cpm, respectively. Thus, PPIase activation of ADR is CsA-resistant. Furthermore, PPIase could not reverse CsA-induced inhibition of ADR. CsA (3 mM) treatment of PHA-stimulated cells rendered proliferation by 30% and ADR by 35%. ADR isolated from cells treated with CsA (9110 +/- 750 cpm) was not increased by treatment with PPIase (9185 +/- 449 cpm). These findings suggest that PPIase converts ADR from an inactive to an active form. However, the mechanism of CsA inhibition of ADR is neither mediated nor overridden by PPIase.
Identification and characterization of proteinase K-resistant proteins in members of the class Mollicutes.	Proteins resistant to proteinase K are rare because of the potency, wide pH optimum, and low peptide bond specificity of this enzyme. Previously, only the prion proteins associated with transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, possibly related proteins in the mollicute Spiroplasma mirum, and proteinase K itself have been reported. We identified a new proteinase K-resistant protein, p40-pr, in two strains of Mycoplasma hyorhinis and in extracts of these organisms. p40-pr's are similar to prion proteins in their resistance to high doses of proteinase K and in the reversal of this resistance by strong denaturing conditions. However, p40-pr's were distinct immunologically, in relative molecular mass, and in their method of extraction. Two immunologically related forms of p40-pr were identified on sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) gels and Western immunoblots, a 40-kDa species in boiled samples and a 120-kDa species dissociable by boiling in SDS. Reduction with 2-mercaptoethanol did not affect the mass of p40-pr's or the 120-kDa forms. The development of proteinase K resistance of p40-pr correlated to age-dependent increases in organism protein-lipid ratios. p40-pr-like proteinase K-resistant proteins of 46 to 50 kDa were identified in four of eight additional species of the class Mollicutes but not in S. mirum. However, these mycoplasmal proteins did not react with antibody to the denatured 40-kDa form of M. hyorhinis p40-pr purified by electroelution. The chromatographically purified 46-kDa proteinase K-resistant protein of Mycoplasma orale was an arginine deiminase.
Human and murine cytotoxic T lymphocyte serine proteases: subsite mapping with peptide thioester substrates and inhibition of enzyme activity and cytolysis by isocoumarins.	The active site structures of human Q31 granzyme A, murine granzymes (A, B, C, D, E, and F), and human granzymes (A, B, and 3) isolated from cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) were studied with peptide thioester substrates, peptide chloromethyl ketone, and isocoumarin inhibitors. Human Q31, murine, and human granzyme A hydrolyzed Arg- or Lys-containing thioesters very efficiently with kcat/KM of 10(4)-10(5) M-1 s-1. Murine granzyme B was found to have Asp-ase activity and hydrolyzed Boc-Ala-Ala-Asp-SBzl with a kcat/KM value of 2.3 X 10(5) M-1 s-1. The rate was accelerated 1.4-fold when the 0.05 M NaCl in the assay was replaced with CaCl2. The preparation of granzyme B also had significant activity toward Boc-Ala-Ala-AA-SBzl substrates, where AA was Asn, Met, or Ser [kcat/KM = (4-5) X 10(4) M-1 s-1]. Murine granzymes C, D, and E did not hydrolyze any thioester substrate but contained minor contaminating activity toward Arg- or Lys-containing thioesters. Murine granzyme F had small activity toward Suc-Phe-Leu-Phe-SBzl, along with some contaminating trypsin-like activity. Human Q31 granzyme A, murine, and human granzyme A were inhibited quite efficiently by mechanism-based isocoumarin inhibitors substituted with basic groups (guanidino or isothiureidopropoxy). Although the general serine protease inhibitor 3,4-dichloroisocoumarin (DCI) inactivated these tryptases poorly, it was the best isocoumarin inhibitor for murine granzyme B (kobs/[I] = 3700-4200 M-1 s-1). Murine and human granzyme B were also inhibited by Boc-Ala-Ala-Asp-CH2Cl; however, the inhibition was less potent than that with DCI. DCI, 3-(3-amino-propoxy)-4-chloroisocoumarin, 4-chloro-3-(3-isothiureidopropoxy)isocoumarin, and 7-amino-4-chloro-3-(3-isothiureidopropoxy)isocoumarin inhibited Q31 cytotoxic T lymphocyte mediated lysis of human JY lymphoblasts (ED50 = 0.5-5.0 microM).
Peptidic phosphonylating agents as irreversible inhibitors of serine proteases and models of the tetrahedral intermediates.	Peptide analogues incorporating an electrophilic phosphorus moiety (2-6) have been synthesized and studied as inhibitors of a variety of serine proteases. Inhibition is irreversible and, for alpha-lytic protease (ALP), shown to result from covalent binding to the active site serine hydroxyl [Bone, R., Sampson, N. S., Bartlett, P.A., & Agard, D. A. (1991) Biochemistry (following paper in this issue)]. For reaction of human leukocyte elastase (HLE) with the thiophenyl esters 6s-V (Boc-AAPV psi [P = O(SPh)O]AA-OMe), 4s-V (BocAAPV psi [P = O(SPh)O]-Me), and 3s-V (Boc-V psi [P = O(SPh)O]AA-OMe), evidence is presented to suggest that the S4-S1 subsites, but not the S1' and S2' positions, are occupied by the inhibitors during the inactivation process. The selectivity that is observed between the proteases and the hexapeptide phosphonates 6o-V (Boc-AAPV psi [P = O(OPh)O]AA-OMe) and 6o-F (Boc-AAPF psi [P = O(OPh)O]AA-OMe) parallels that between these enzymes and their substrates: ALP and HLE are selectively inactivated by the ValP-containing analogue 6o-V, while subtilisin (SUB) shows a preference for the PheP derivative 6o-F. A detailed kinetic analysis of the enzyme-inhibitor interactions was complicated by the susceptibility of the inhibitors to enzymatic degradation. The configuration at phosphorus was found not to have a significant influence on the rate at which the inhibitors react with the peptidases. Moreover, in the case of inactivation of ALP by the hexapeptide 6o-V, the same covalent adduct is formed from both stereoisomers (Bone et al., 1991), indicating that one of these diastereomers undergoes substitution with retention of configuration.
Crystal structures of alpha-lytic protease complexes with irreversibly bound phosphonate esters.	The structures of the complexes with alpha-lytic protease of both phosphorus stereoisomers of N-[(2S)-2-[[[(1R)-1-[N-[(tert-butyloxycarbonyl)-L-alanyl-L-alanyl- L-prolyl]amino]-2-methylpropyl]-phenoxyphosphinyl]oxy]propanoyl]- L-alanine methyl ester, an analogue of the peptide Boc-Ala-Ala-Pro-Val-Ala-Ala where Val is replaced with an analogous phosphonate phenyl ester and the subsequent Ala is replaced with lactate, have been determined to high resolution (1.9 A) by X-ray crystallography. Both stereoisomers inactivate the enzyme but differ by a factor of 2 in the second-order rate constant for inactivation [Sampson, N. S., & Bartlett, P. A. (1991) Biochemistry (preceding paper in this issue)]. One isomer (B) forms a tetrahedral adduct in which the phosphonate phenyl ester is displaced by the active site serine (S195) and interacts with the enzyme across seven substrate recognition sites that span both sides of the scissile bond. Seven hydrogen bonds are formed with the enzyme, and 510 A2 of hydrophobic surface area is buried when the inhibitor interacts with the enzyme. Although two hydrogen bonds are gained by incorporation of two residues on the C-terminal side of the scissile bond into the inhibitor, there is very little adjustment in the structure of the enzyme in this region. Surprisingly, the active site histidine (H57) does not interact with the phosphonate, apparently because the phosphonate lacks negative charge in or near the oxyanion hole, and instead, the side chain rotates out of the active site cleft and hydrogen bonds with solvent. The other isomer (A) forms a mixture of two different tetrahedral adducts in the active site, both covalently bonded to Ser 195. One adduct, at approximately 58% occupancy, is exactly the same in structure as the complex formed with isomer B, and the other adduct, at 42% occupancy, has lost the two residues C-terminal to the scissile bond by hydrolysis. In the lower occupancy structure, His 57 does not rotate out of the active site and forms a hydrogen bond with the phosphonate oxygen instead. The structures of both complexes were insensitive to pH. As very little change in structure accompanies the histidine rotation, the complex with isomer B provides an excellent mimic for the structure of the transition state (or high-energy reaction intermediate) that spans both sides of the scissile bond.
The three-dimensional structure of the bifunctional proteinase K/alpha-amylase inhibitor from wheat (PK13) at 2.5 A resolution.	Wheat germ contains an inhibitor for proteinase K, called PK13 (Mr approximately 19,600) which simultaneously inhibits alpha-amylase. PK13 was crystallized, space group P21, a = 43.02 (5) A, b = 65.18 (7) A, c = 32.33 (4) A, beta = 112.79 degrees (9), X-ray data were collected to 2.5 A resolution, the structure solved by molecular replacement on the basis of the atomic coordinates of the homologous Erythrina caffra DE-3 inhibitor, and refined with simulated annealing techniques with a current R-factor of 21%. The three-dimensional structure of PK13 is stabilised by two disulfide bridges and has a central beta-barrel with distorted beta-structure. In analogy to related inhibitors, the binding site for proteinase K is assumed to be located on the surface of the protein (amino acid residues 66-67), although the 75-76 peptide bond is cleaved upon binding.
Developmental emergence of reelin deficits in the prefrontal cortex of Wistar rats reared in social isolation.	As the pathophysiological mechanism(s) of many neuropsychiatric disorders relate to GABAergic interneuron structure and function, we employed isolation rearing of Wistar rats as a model to correlate developmental emergence of cognitive deficits with the expression of reelin-producing interneurons in the medial prefrontal cortex (PFC). Prepulse inhibition deficits emerged at postnatal day 60 and persisted into adulthood. Paralleling the emergence of these neurobehavioural deficits was an increase in reelin production and reelin-immunopositive cells in layer I of the PFC and this later became significantly reduced at postnatal day 80. Cells expressing reelin immunoreactivity in a horizontal orientation were mainly located to the upper regions of layer I whereas those with a vertical orientation, whose arbors extend into cortical layers II and III, were more numerous in the lower regions of layer I and became significantly dysregulated during postnatal development. No behavioural deficits or altered reelin expression was observed at postnatal days 30 or 40. Developmental emergence of neurobehavioural and reelin deficits in isolation reared animals is proposed to reflect maladaptive wiring within the medial prefrontal cortex during a critical maturation period of this circuitry.
Hyaluronic Acid binding protein 2 is a novel regulator of vascular integrity.	The disruption of the endothelial cell barrier is a critical feature of inflammation and an important contributing factor to acute lung injury (ALI), an inflammatory condition that is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in critically ill patients. We evaluated the role of the extracellular serine protease, hyaluronic acid binding protein 2 (HABP2), in vascular barrier regulation.
Intestinal and hepatic cholesterol carriers in diabetic Psammomys obesus.	Insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes (T2D) are characterized by hyperlipidemia. The aim of the present study was to elucidate whether T2D contributes to abnormal cholesterol (CHOL) homeostasis. Experiments were carried out in the small intestine and liver of Psammomys obesus, a model of nutritionally induced T2D. Our results show that diabetic animals exhibited a lower intestinal CHOL uptake, which was associated with a decrease in 1) the gene and protein expression of Niemann-Pick C1 like 1 that plays a pivotal role in CHOL incorporation in the enterocytes; and 2) mRNA of ATP-binding cassette transporters (ABC)A1 that mediates CHOL efflux from intestinal cells to apolipoprotein A-I and high-density lipoprotein. No changes were observed in the other intestinal transporters scavenger receptor-class B type I (SR-BI) and annexin 2. On the other hand, in diabetic animals, a significant mRNA decrease was noticed in intestinal ABCG5 and ABCG8 responsible for the secretion of absorbed CHOL back into the lumen. Furthermore, jejunal PCSK9 protein was diminished and low-density lipoprotein receptor was raised, along with a significant down-regulation in jejunal 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase in P. obesus with T2D. Finally, among the transcription factors tested, only an increase in liver X receptors alpha and a decrease in peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors delta/beta mRNAs were detected in the intestine. In the liver, there was 1) an augmentation in the protein mass of Niemann-Pick C1 like 1, SR-BI, and annexin 2; 2) an up-regulation of SR-BI mRNA; 3) a fall in ABCG8 protein content as well as in ABCG5 and ABCA1 mRNA; and 4) an augmentation in liver X receptors alpha and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors beta/delta mRNA, together with a drop in sterol regulatory element binding protein-2 protein. Our findings show that the development in P. obesus with T2D modifies the whole intraenterocyte and hepatocyte machinery responsible for CHOL homeostasis.
Focus on flaviviruses: current and future drug targets.	Infection by mosquito-borne flaviviruses (family Flaviviridae) is increasing in prevalence worldwide. The vast global, social and economic impact due to the morbidity and mortality associated with the diseases caused by these viruses necessitates therapeutic intervention. There is currently no effective clinical treatment for any flaviviral infection. Therefore, there is a great need for the identification of novel inhibitors to target the virus life cycle.
MR imaging of iron phagocytosis in intraluminal thrombi of abdominal aortic aneurysms in humans.	To prospectively determine if superparamagnetic iron oxide (SPIO)-enhanced magnetic resonance (MR) imaging could help visualize leukocyte phagocytic activities in human abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs).
The resolution of bacteroides lipopolysaccharides by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis.	The lipopolysaccharides (LPS) of the 10 species of the genus Bacteroides (sensu stricto) were extracted by the proteinase K method and their resolution compared by several methods of polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE). These included sodium dodecyl sulphate (SDS)-PAGE with and without urea, polyacrylamide gradient gels and Tricine [N-Tris (hydroxymethyl) methyl glycine]-SDS-PAGE. The original discontinuous system showed good resolution of LPS from B. thetaiotaomicron, B. caccae and B. ovatus and this was enhanced by urea; B. vulgatus showed a typical ladder pattern associated with repeating polysaccharide units of the O side chains. The LPS profiles of the other species, including B. fragilis, were poorly resolved; the majority of components migrated with the leading edge of the wave front. The resolution of the LPS of these species was marginally improved with gradient gels but the majority of components were separated only within the regions of high polyacrylamide concentration. The Tricine-SDS system was consistently superior to the other methods, with excellent resolution of the LPS profiles of all Bacteroides species.
Improved protection of swine from pleuropneumonia by vaccination with proteinase K-treated outer membrane of Actinobacillus (Haemophilus) pleuropneumoniae.	The immunogenic and protective potentials of an outer membrane-enriched fraction (OM) from a serotype 5 strain of Actinobacillus (Haemophilus) pleuropneumoniae (APP) and the same OM degraded with proteinase K or periodate were evaluated in swine. Groups of pigs were vaccinated with two doses of OM, proteinase K-treated OM (P-OM), periodate-treated OM (PI-OM), or placebo vaccine and challenged intranasally with the homologous strain of APP. Results from triplicate experiments indicated that proteinase K treatment of OM resulted in an improved efficacy. This improved efficacy of P-OM vaccine over untreated OM vaccine was evidenced not only by less severe lung lesions in P-OM vaccinated pigs but also by significant reduction (P less than 0.05) in the number of P-OM vaccinated pigs which developed lung lesions upon challenge with APP. Assessment of sera from vaccinated animals by immunoblotting, complement fixation test, or ELISA indicated that the immunogenicity of some but not all protein or carbohydrate components were reduced (or eliminated) by proteinase K and periodate treatments respectively.
Determination of proteolytic enzymes by flow-injection analysis.	Quantitation of proteolytic enzymes using N-succinyl-L-Ala-L-Ala-L-Pro-L-Phe-p-nitroanilide has been adapted to flow-injection analysis. This procedure has been developed using two different proteases: subtilisin and chymotrypsin. For both enzymes the influence of substrate concentration on spectrophotometric response has been studied. The assay is based on the merging zones technique combined with a washing step. Results are obtained in less than 15 s and samples may be run at a rate of 90/h with good reproducibility. A linear relation between peak heights and enzyme concentrations was observed for 0-0.15 Anson unit/liter of subtilisin and for 0-30 mg/liter of a commercial preparation of chymotrypsin. The method requires only small sample volumes, and the consumption of the chromogenic substrate is reduced to a minimum by using intermittent pumping.
Expression and role of the cell surface protease seprase/fibroblast activation protein- (FAP-) in astroglial tumors.	Seprase or fibroblast activation protein- (FAP-) is a cell-surface serine protease that was previously described nearly exclusively on reactive and tumor stromal fibroblasts and thought to be involved in tissue remodeling. We investigated the expression and significance of FAP- in astrocytomas/glioblastomas. As shown by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunohistochemistry, FAP- was elevated in whole glioblastoma tissues and in particular in most glioma cells in situ and in vitro. In glioma stem-like cells (gliospheres), FAP- was detected at low levels; however, FAP- was considerably induced upon differentiation with 10% fetal calf serum. To explore its functional role, FAP- was silenced by siRNA transfection. In Boyden chamber assays, FAP- silenced cells migrated similar as control cells through non-coated or Matrigel (basal lamina)-coated porous membranes, but significantly slower through membranes coated with gelatin or brevican, a major component of brain extracellular matrix. Furthermore, FAP--silenced glioma cells migrated through murine brain slices much slower under the conditions tested than differentially fluorescent-labeled control cells. Thus, FAP- is highly expressed on the surface of glioma cells and contributes to diffuse glioma invasion through extracellular matrix components.
Cigarette smoke-induced lung emphysema in mice is associated with prolyl endopeptidase, an enzyme involved in collagen breakdown.	There is increasing evidence that the neutrophil chemoattractant proline-glycine-proline (PGP), derived from the breakdown of the extracellular matrix, plays an important role in neutrophil recruitment to the lung. PGP formation is a multistep process involving neutrophils, metalloproteinases (MMPs), and prolyl endopeptidase (PE). This cascade of events is now investigated in the development of lung emphysema. A/J mice were whole body exposed to cigarette smoke for 20 wk. After 20 wk or 8 wk after smoking cessation, animals were killed, and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and lung tissue were collected to analyze the neutrophilic airway inflammation, the MMP-8 and MMP-9 levels, the PE activity, and the PGP levels. Lung tissue degradation was assessed by measuring the mean linear intercept. Additionally, we investigated the effect of the peptide L-arginine-threonine-arginine (RTR), which binds to PGP sequences, on the smoke-induced neutrophil influx in the lung after 5 days of smoke exposure. Neutrophilic airway inflammation was induced by cigarette smoke exposure. MMP-8 and MMP-9 levels, PE activity, and PGP levels were elevated in the lungs of cigarette smoke-exposed mice. PE was highly expressed in epithelial and inflammatory cells (macrophages and neutrophils) in lung tissue of cigarette smoke-exposed mice. After smoking cessation, the neutrophil influx, the MMP-8 and MMP-9 levels, the PE activity, and the PGP levels were decreased or reduced to normal levels. Moreover, RTR inhibited the smoke-induced neutrophil influx in the lung after 5 days' smoke exposure. In the present murine model of cigarette smoke-induced lung emphysema, it is demonstrated for the first time that all relevant components (neutrophils, MMP-8, MMP-9, PE) involved in PGP formation from collagen are upregulated in the airways. Together with MMPs, PE may play an important role in the formation of PGP and thus in the pathophysiology of lung emphysema.
Dynamic expression of the p53 family members p63 and p73 in the mouse and human telencephalon during development and in adulthood.	p63 and p73, family members of the tumor suppressor p53, are critically involved in the life and death of mammalian cells. They display high homology and may act in concert. The p73 gene is relevant for brain development, and p73-deficient mice display important malformations of the telencephalon. In turn, p63 is essential for the development of stratified epithelia and may also play a part in neuronal survival and aging. We show here that p63 and p73 are dynamically expressed in the embryonic and adult mouse and human telencephalon. During embryonic stages, Cajal-Retzius cells derived from the cortical hem co-express p73 and p63. Comparison of the brain phenotypes of p63- and p73- deficient mice shows that only the loss of p73 function leads to the loss of Cajal-Retzius cells, whereas p63 is apparently not essential for brain development and Cajal-Retzius cell formation. In postnatal mice, p53, p63, and p73 are present in cells of the subventricular zone (SVZ) of the lateral ventricle, a site of continued neurogenesis. The neurogenetic niche is reduced in size in p73-deficient mice, and the numbers of young neurons near the ventricular wall, marked with doublecortin, Tbr1 and calretinin, are dramatically decreased, suggesting that p73 is important for SVZ proliferation. In contrast to their restricted expression during brain development, p73 and p63 are widely detected in pyramidal neurons of the adult human cortex and hippocampus at protein and mRNA levels, pointing to a role of both genes in neuronal maintenance in adulthood.
Inhibition of influenza virus infection in human airway cell cultures by an antisense peptide-conjugated morpholino oligomer targeting the hemagglutinin-activating protease TMPRSS2.	Influenza A viruses constitute a major and ongoing global public health concern. Current antiviral strategies target viral gene products; however, the emergence of drug-resistant viruses highlights the need for novel antiviral approaches. Cleavage of the influenza virus hemagglutinin (HA) by host cell proteases is crucial for viral infectivity and therefore presents a potential drug target. Peptide-conjugated phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomers (PPMO) are single-stranded-DNA-like antisense agents that readily enter cells and can act as antisense agents by sterically blocking cRNA. Here, we evaluated the effect of PPMO targeted to regions of the pre-mRNA or mRNA of the HA-cleaving protease TMPRSS2 on proteolytic activation and spread of influenza viruses in human Calu-3 airway epithelial cells. We found that treatment of cells with a PPMO (T-ex5) designed to interfere with TMPRSS2 pre-mRNA splicing resulted in TMPRSS2 mRNA lacking exon 5 and consequently the expression of a truncated and enzymatically inactive form of TMPRSS2. Altered splicing of TMPRSS2 mRNA by the T-ex5 PPMO prevented HA cleavage in different human seasonal and pandemic influenza A viruses and suppressed viral titers by 2 to 3 log(10) units, strongly suggesting that TMPRSS2 is responsible for HA cleavage in Calu-3 airway cells. The data indicate that PPMO provide a useful reagent for investigating HA-activating proteases and may represent a promising strategy for the development of novel therapeutics to address influenza infections.
Anthracene-based inhibitors of dengue virus NS2B-NS3 protease.	Dengue virus (DENV) is a mosquito-borne flavivirus that has strained global healthcare systems throughout tropical and subtropical regions of the world. In addition to plaguing developing nations, it has re-emerged in several developed countries with recent outbreaks in the USA (CDC, 2010), Australia (Hanna et al., 2009), Taiwan (Kuan et al., 2010) and France (La Ruche et al., 2010). DENV infection can cause significant disease, including dengue fever, dengue hemorrhagic fever, dengue shock syndrome, and death. There are no approved vaccines or antiviral therapies to prevent or treat dengue-related illnesses. However, the viral NS2B-NS3 protease complex provides a strategic target for antiviral drug development since NS3 protease activity is required for virus replication. Recently, we reported two compounds with inhibitory activity against the DENV protease in vitro and antiviral activity against dengue 2 (DEN2V) in cell culture (Tomlinson et al., 2009a). Analogs of one of the lead compounds were purchased, tested in protease inhibition assays, and the data evaluated with detailed kinetic analyses. A structure activity relationship (SAR) identified key atomic determinants (i.e. functional groups) important for inhibitory activity. Four "second series" analogs were selected and tested to validate our SAR and structural models. Here, we report improvements to inhibitory activity ranging between 2- and 60-fold, resulting in selective low micromolar dengue protease inhibitors.
Phosphonic pseudopeptides as human neutrophil elastase inhibitors--a combinatorial approach.	Here we present a simple and rapid method for the construction of phosphonic peptide mimetic inhibitor libraries-products of Ugi and Passerini multicomponent condensations-leading to the selection of new biologically active phosphonic pseudopeptides. As the starting isonitriles, 1-isocyanoalkylphosphonate diaryl ester derivatives were applied. The structure of the synthesized inhibitors was designed to target human neutrophil elastase, a serine protease whose uncontrolled activity may lead to development of several pathophysiological states such as rheumatoid arthritis, cystic fibrosis or tumor growth and invasion. After screening the inhibitory activity of our constructed libraries, the most active compounds were synthesized as single molecules. One of the obtained inhibitors, Cbz-Met-O-Met-Val(P)(OC(6)H(4)-p-Cl)(2), displayed apparent second-order inhibition value at 40,105M(-1)s(-1) as the diastereomers mixture. Inhibition potency and selectivity of action toward other serine proteases as well as the results of initial in vitro experiments regarding inhibitors influence on cancer cell proliferation are presented.
c-Met-induced epithelial carcinogenesis is initiated by the serine protease matriptase.	The progression and negative outcome of a variety of human carcinomas are intimately associated with aberrant activity of the c-Met oncogene. The underlying cause of this dysregulation, however, remains a subject of discussion, as the majority of cancer patients do not present with activating mutations in c-Met receptor itself. In this study, we show that the oncogenic protease matriptase is ubiquitously co-expressed with the c-Met in human squamous cell carcinomas and amplifies migratory and proliferative responses of primary epithelial cells to the cognate ligand for c-Met, pro-hepatocyte growth factor/scatter factor (proHGF/SF), through c-Met and Gab1 signaling. Furthermore, the selective genetic ablation of c-Met from matriptase-expressing keratinocytes completely negates the oncogenic potential of matriptase. In addition, matriptase-dependent carcinoma formation could be blocked by the pharmacological inhibition of the Akt-mammalian target of Rapamycin (mTor) pathway. Our data identify matriptase as an initiator of c-Met-Akt-mTor-dependent signaling axis in tumors and reveal mTor activation as an essential component of matriptase/c-Met-induced carcinogenesis. The study provides a specific example of how epithelial transformation can be promoted by epigenetic acquisition of the capacity to convert a widely available paracrine growth factor precursor to its signaling competent state.
Disruption of reelin signaling alters mammary gland morphogenesis.	Reelin signaling is required for appropriate cell migration and ductal patterning during mammary gland morphogenesis. Dab1, an intracellular adaptor protein activated in response to reelin signaling, is expressed in the developing mammary bud and in luminal epithelial cells in the adult gland. Reelin protein is expressed in a complementary pattern, first in the epithelium overlying the mammary bud during embryogenesis and then in the myoepithelium and periductal stroma in the adult. Deletion in mouse of either reelin or Dab1 induced alterations in the development of the ductal network, including significant retardation in ductal elongation, decreased terminal branching, and thickening and disorganization of the luminal wall. At later stages, some mutant glands overcame these early delays, but went on to exhibit enlarged and chaotic ductal morphologies and decreased terminal branching: these phenotypes are suggestive of a role for reelin in spatial patterning or structural organization of the mammary epithelium. Isolated mammary epithelial cells exhibited decreased migration in response to exogenous reelin in vitro, a response that required Dab1. These observations highlight a role for reelin signaling in the directed migration of mammary epithelial cells driving ductal elongation into the mammary fat pad and provide the first evidence that reelin signaling may be crucial for regulating the migration and organization of non-neural tissues.
Accurate mass comparison coupled with two endopeptidases enables identification of protein termini.	Protein termini play important roles in biological processes, but there have been few methods for comprehensive terminal proteomics. We have developed a new method that can identify both the amino and the carboxyl termini of proteins. The method independently uses two proteases, (lysyl endopeptidase) Lys-C and peptidyl-Lys metalloendopeptidase (Lys-N), to digest proteins, followed by LC-MS/MS analysis of the two digests. Terminal peptides can be identified by comparing the peptide masses in the two digests as follows: (i) the amino terminal peptide of a protein in Lys-C digest is one lysine residue mass heavier than that in Lys-N digest; (ii) the carboxyl terminal peptide in Lys-N digest is one lysine residue mass heavier than that in Lys-C digest; and (iii) all internal peptides give exactly the same molecular masses in both the Lys-C and the Lys-N digest, although amino acid sequences of Lys-C and Lys-N peptides are different (Lys-C peptides end with lysine, whereas Lys-N peptides begin with lysine). The identification of terminal peptides was further verified by examining their MS/MS spectra to avoid misidentifying pairs as termini. In this study, we investigated the usefulness of this method using several protein and peptide mixtures. Known protein termini were successfully identified. Acetylation on N-terminus and protein isoforms, which have different termini, was also determined. These results demonstrate that our new method can confidently identify terminal peptides in protein mixtures.
HIV-1 enhancing effect of prostatic acid phosphatase peptides is reduced in human seminal plasma.	We recently reported that HIV-1 infection can be inhibited by innate antimicrobial components of human seminal plasma (SP). Conversely, naturally occurring peptidic fragments from the SP-derived prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP) have been reported to form amyloid fibrils called "SEVI" and enhance HIV-1 infection in vitro. In order to understand the biological consequence of this proviral effect, we extended these studies in the presence of human SP. PAP-derived peptides were agitated to form SEVI and incubated in the presence or absence of SP. While PAP-derived peptides and SEVI alone were proviral, the presence of 1% SP ablated their proviral activity in several different anti-HIV-1 assays. The anti-HIV-1 activity of SP was concentration dependent and was reduced following filtration. Supraphysiological concentrations of PAP peptides and SEVI incubated with diluted SP were degraded within hours, with SP exhibiting proteolytic activity at dilutions as high as 1:200. Sub-physiological concentrations of two prominent proteases of SP, prostate-specific antigen (PSA) and matriptase, could degrade physiological and supraphysiological concentrations of PAP peptides and SEVI. While human SP is a complex biological fluid, containing both antiviral and proviral factors, our results suggest that PAP peptides and SEVI may be subject to naturally occurring proteolytic components capable of reducing their proviral activity.
Evidence that TMPRSS2 activates the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus spike protein for membrane fusion and reduces viral control by the humoral immune response.	The spike (S) protein of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) can be proteolytically activated by cathepsins B and L upon viral uptake into target cell endosomes. In contrast, it is largely unknown whether host cell proteases located in the secretory pathway of infected cells and/or on the surface of target cells can cleave SARS S. We along with others could previously show that the type II transmembrane protease TMPRSS2 activates the influenza virus hemagglutinin and the human metapneumovirus F protein by cleavage. Here, we assessed whether SARS S is proteolytically processed by TMPRSS2. Western blot analysis revealed that SARS S was cleaved into several fragments upon coexpression of TMPRSS2 (cis-cleavage) and upon contact between SARS S-expressing cells and TMPRSS2-positive cells (trans-cleavage). cis-cleavage resulted in release of SARS S fragments into the cellular supernatant and in inhibition of antibody-mediated neutralization, most likely because SARS S fragments function as antibody decoys. trans-cleavage activated SARS S on effector cells for fusion with target cells and allowed efficient SARS S-driven viral entry into targets treated with a lysosomotropic agent or a cathepsin inhibitor. Finally, ACE2, the cellular receptor for SARS-CoV, and TMPRSS2 were found to be coexpressed by type II pneumocytes, which represent important viral target cells, suggesting that SARS S is cleaved by TMPRSS2 in the lung of SARS-CoV-infected individuals. In summary, we show that TMPRSS2 might promote viral spread and pathogenesis by diminishing viral recognition by neutralizing antibodies and by activating SARS S for cell-cell and virus-cell fusion.
Targeted disruption of the idol gene alters cellular regulation of the low-density lipoprotein receptor by sterols and liver x receptor agonists.	Previously, we identified the E3 ubiquitin ligase Idol (inducible degrader of the low-density lipoprotein [LDL] receptor [LDLR]) as a posttranscriptional regulator of the LDLR pathway. Idol stimulates LDLR degradation through ubiquitination of its C-terminal domain, thereby limiting cholesterol uptake. Here we report the generation and characterization of mouse embryonic stem cells homozygous for a null mutation in the Idol gene. Cells lacking Idol exhibit markedly elevated levels of the LDLR protein and increased rates of LDL uptake. Furthermore, despite an intact sterol responsive element-binding protein (SREBP) pathway, Idol-null cells exhibit an altered response to multiple regulators of sterol metabolism, including serum, oxysterols, and synthetic liver X receptor (LXR) agonists. The ability of oxysterols and lipoprotein-containing serum to suppress LDLR protein levels is reduced, and the time course of suppression is delayed, in cells lacking Idol. LXR ligands have no effect on LDLR levels in Idol-null cells, indicating that Idol is required for LXR-dependent inhibition of the LDLR pathway. In line with these results, the half-life of the LDLR protein is prolonged in the absence of Idol. Finally, the ability of statins and PCSK9 to alter LDLR levels is independent of, and additive with, the LXR-Idol pathway. These results demonstrate that the LXR-Idol pathway is an important contributor to feedback inhibition of the LDLR by sterols and a biological determinant of cellular LDL uptake.
The cleavage specificity of an IgA1 protease from Haemophilus influenzae.	Bacterial IgA1 proteases are thought to be important virulence factors in respiratory tract infections. These proteolytic enzymes specifically cleave one of several post-proline peptide bonds within the hinge region of human immunoglobulin A1 (IgA1). Human IgA1 was cleaved with an IgA1 protease purified from an isolate of non-typeable Haemophilus influenzae (NTHI) and cleavage products were N-terminally sequenced. Cleavage of human IgA1 produced two different sized Fc fragments and N terminal sequencing of both these fragments revealed the sequence -Thr-Pro-Ser-Pro-Ser. The IgA1 protease could produce this double cleavage or it is possible that the bacterial strain of the NTHI could be producing two different IgA1 proteases simultaneously. However, PCR with sequence-specific primers amplified only one sequence of the IgA1 protease gene confirming that the NTHI isolate contained one iga gene, which would code for one IgA1 protease. Thus, one isolate of NTHI, which contains one iga gene sequence has been found to produce an IgA1 protease that cleaves two peptide bonds within the human IgA1 hinge region at replicate sequences. The iga gene sequence determines the unique cleavage specificity of the NTHI IgA1 protease and affects the inhibition of the protease. Further work will be required in order to design specific inhibitors to this important class of proteolytic enzymes.
Charged flanking residues control the efficiency of membrane insertion of the first transmembrane segment in yeast mitochondrial Mgm1p.	Mgm1p is a nuclearly encoded GTPase important for mitochondrial fusion. Long and short isoforms of the protein are generated in a unique "alternative topogenesis" process in which the most N-terminal of two hydrophobic segments in the protein is inserted into the inner mitochondrial membrane in about half of the molecules and translocated across the inner membrane in the other half. In the latter population, the second hydrophobic segment is cleaved by the inner membrane protease Pcp1p, generating the short isoform. Here, we show that charged residues in the regions flanking the first segment critically affect the ratio between the two isoforms, providing new insight into the importance of charged residues in the insertion of proteins into the mitochondrial inner membrane.
Neuronal activity is required for the development of specific cortical interneuron subtypes.	Electrical activity has been shown to regulate development in a variety of species and in various structures, including the retina, spinal cord and cortex. Within the mammalian cortex specifically, the development of dendrites and commissural axons in pyramidal cells is activity-dependent. However, little is known about the developmental role of activity in the other major cortical population of neurons, the GABA-producing interneurons. These neurons are morphologically and functionally heterogeneous and efforts over the past decade have focused on determining the mechanisms that contribute to this diversity. It was recently discovered that 30% of all cortical interneurons arise from a relatively novel source within the ventral telencephalon, the caudal ganglionic eminence (CGE). Owing to their late birth date, these interneurons populate the cortex only after the majority of other interneurons and pyramidal cells are already in place and have started to functionally integrate. Here we demonstrate in mice that for CGE-derived reelin (Re)-positive and calretinin (Cr)-positive (but not vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP)-positive) interneurons, activity is essential before postnatal day 3 for correct migration, and that after postnatal day 3, glutamate-mediated activity controls the development of their axons and dendrites. Furthermore, we show that the engulfment and cell motility 1 gene (Elmo1), a target of the transcription factor distal-less homeobox 1 (Dlx1), is selectively expressed in Re(+) and Cr(+) interneurons and is both necessary and sufficient for activity-dependent interneuron migration. Our findings reveal a selective requirement for activity in shaping the cortical integration of specific neuronal subtypes.
Activation of factor VII-activating protease in human inflammation: a sensor for cell death.	Cell death is a central event in the pathogenesis of sepsis and is reflected by circulating nucleosomes. Circulating nucleosomes were suggested to play an important role in inflammation and were demonstrated to correlate with severity and outcome in sepsis patients. We recently showed that plasma can release nucleosomes from late apoptotic cells. Factor VII-activating protease (FSAP) was identified to be the plasma serine protease responsible for nucleosome release. The aim of this study was to investigate FSAP activation in patients suffering from various inflammatory diseases of increasing severity.
Sites of origin and developmental dynamics of the neurons in the core and shell regions of torus semicircularis in the Chinese softshell turtle (Pelodiscus sinensis).	To know the embryogenesis of the core and shell regions of the midbrain auditory nucleus, a single dose of [(3)H]-thymidine was injected into the turtle embryos at peak stages of neurogenesis in the shell and core of the torus semicircularis. Following sequential survival times, labeled neurons and the dynamics of cell proliferation were examined. The expression of vimentin (VM), reelin, calbindin, parvalbumin, and substance P were also studied. The results showed that: 1) progenitor cells for the core and shell regions were generated in different sites of the ventricular zone; 2) the length of the cell cycle or S-phase for the shell region were both longer than those for the core region (4.7 and 3.2 hours longer, respectively), suggesting that mitotic activity in the core region is higher than it is in the shell region; 3) the elongated cell bodies of the labeled core and shell cells had close apposition to VM fibers, suggesting that the migration of these cells is guided by VM fibers; 4) the germinal sites of the core and shell constructed by projecting the orientation of radial VM fibers back to the ventricular zone was consistent with those obtained by short and sequential survival [(3)H]-thymidine radiography; and 5) the beginning of positive staining for parvalbumin in the core region was interposed between those for calbindin and substance P in the shell regions. This study contributes to the understanding of how auditory nuclei are organized and how their components developed and evolved.
Interference with reelin signaling in the lateral entorhinal cortex impairs spatial memory.	Entorhinal neurons receive extensive intracortical projections, and form the primary input to the hippocampus via the perforant pathway. The glutamatergic cells of origin for the perforant pathway are distinguished by their expression of reelin, a glycoprotein involved in learning and synaptic plasticity. The functional significance of reelin signaling within the entorhinal cortex, however, remains unexplored. To determine whether interrupting entorhinal reelin signaling might have consequences for learning and memory, we administered recombinant receptor-associated protein (RAP) into the lateral entorhinal cortex (LEC) of young Long-Evans rats. RAP prevents reelin from binding to its receptors, and we verified the knockdown of reelin signaling by quantifying the phosphorylation state of reelin's intracellular signaling target, disabled-1 (DAB1). Effective knockdown of reelin signaling was associated with impaired performance in the hippocampus-dependent version of the water maze. Moreover, inhibition of reelin signaling induced a localized loss of synaptic marker expression in the LEC. These observations support a role for entorhinal reelin signaling in spatial learning, and suggest that an intact reelin signaling pathway is essential for synaptic integrity in the adult entorhinal cortex.
Yeast SREBP cleavage activation requires the Golgi Dsc E3 ligase complex.	Mammalian lipid homeostasis requires proteolytic activation of membrane-bound sterol regulatory element binding protein (SREBP) transcription factors through sequential action of the Golgi Site-1 and Site-2 proteases. Here we report that while SREBP function is conserved in fungi, fission yeast employs a different mechanism for SREBP cleavage. Using genetics and biochemistry, we identified four genes defective for SREBP cleavage, dsc1-4, encoding components of a transmembrane Golgi E3 ligase complex with structural homology to the Hrd1 E3 ligase complex involved in endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation. The Dsc complex binds SREBP and cleavage requires components of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway: the E2-conjugating enzyme Ubc4, the Dsc1 RING E3 ligase, and the proteasome. dsc mutants display conserved aggravating genetic interactions with components of the multivesicular body pathway in fission yeast and budding yeast, which lacks SREBP. Together, these data suggest that the Golgi Dsc E3 ligase complex functions in a post-ER pathway for protein degradation.
In vivo termini amino acid labeling for quantitative proteomics.	Quantitative proteomics is one of the research hotspots in the proteomics field and presently maturing rapidly into an important branch. The two most typical quantitative methods, stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) and isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ), have been widely and effectively applied in solving various biological and medical problems. Here, we describe a novel quantitative strategy, termed "IVTAL", for in vivo termini amino acid labeling, which combines some advantages of the two methods above. The core of this strategy is a set of heavy amino acid (13)C(6)-arginine and (13)C(6)-lysine and specific endoproteinase Lys-N and Arg-C that yield some labeled isobaric peptides by cell culture and enzymatic digestion, which are indistinguishable in the MS scan but exhibit multiple MS/MS reporter b, y ion pairs in a full mass range that support quantitation. Relative quantification of cell states can be achieved by calculating the intensity ratio of the corresponding reporter b, y ions in the MS/MS scan. The experimental analysis for various proportions of mixed HeLa cell samples indicated that the novel strategy showed an abundance of reliable quantitative information, a high sensitivity, and a good dynamic range of nearly 2 orders of magnitude. IVTAL, as a highly accurate and reliable quantitative proteomic approach, is expected to be compatible with any cell culture system and to be especially effective for the analysis of multiple post-translational modificational sites in one peptide.
Development of substrate analogue inhibitors for the human airway trypsin-like protease HAT.	A series of substrate analogue inhibitors of the serine protease HAT, containing a 4-amidinobenzylamide moiety as the P1 residue, was prepared. The most potent compounds possess a basic amino acid in the d-configuration as P3 residue. Whereas inhibitor 4 (K(i) 13 nM) containing proline as the P2 residue completely lacks selectivity, incorporation of norvaline leads to a potent inhibitor (15, K(i) 15 nM) with improved selectivity for HAT in comparison to the coagulation proteases thrombin and factor Xa or the fibrinolytic plasmin. Selected inhibitors were able to suppress influenza virus replication in a HAT-expressing MDCK cell model.
The proprotein convertases, 20 years later.	The proprotein convertases (PCs) are secretory mammalian serine proteinases related to bacterial subtilisin-like enzymes. The family of PCs comprises nine members, PC1/3, PC2, furin, PC4, PC5/6, PACE4, PC7, SKI-1/S1P, and PCSK9 (Fig. 3.1). While the first seven PCs cleave after single or paired basic residues, the last two cleave at non-basic residues and the last one PCSK9 only cleaves one substrate, itself, for its activation. The targets and substrates of these convertases are very varied covering many aspects of cellular biology and communication. While it took more than 22 years to begin to identify the first member in 1989-1990, in less than 14 years they were all characterized. So where are we 20 years later in 2011? We have now reached a level of maturity needed to begin to unravel the mechanisms behind the complex physiological functions of these PCs both in health and disease states. We are still far away from comprehensively understanding the various ramifications of their roles and to identify their physiological substrates unequivocally. How do these enzymes function in vivo? Are there other partners to be identified that would modulate their activity and/or cellular localization? Would non-toxic inhibitors/silencers of some PCs provide alternative therapies to control some pathologies and improve human health? Are there human SNPs or mutations in these PCs that correlate with disease, and can these help define the finesses of their functions and/or cellular sorting? The more we know about a given field, the more questions will arise, until we are convinced that we have cornered the important angles. And yet the future may well reserve for us many surprises that may allow new leaps in our understanding of the fascinating biology of these phylogenetically ancient eukaryotic proteases (Fig. 3.2) implicated in health and disease, which traffic through the cells via multiple sorting pathways (Fig. 3.3).
Tissue factor pathway inhibitor is an inhibitor of factorVII-activating protease.	Factor VII-activating protease (FSAP) is a serine protease that circulates in plasma in its inactive single-chain form and can be activated upon contact with dead cells. When activated by apoptotic cells, FSAP leads to the release of nucleosomes. The serpins C1-inhibitor and (2) -antiplasmin are reported to be the major inhibitors of FSAP. However, regulation of FSAP activity by Kunitz-type inhibitors is not well studied.
Safety and efficacy of a monoclonal antibody to proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 serine protease, SAR236553/REGN727, in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia receiving ongoing stable atorvastatin therapy.	The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C)-lowering efficacy of 5 SAR236553/REGN727 (SAR236553) dosing regimens versus placebo at week 12 in patients with LDL-C 100 mg/dl on stable atorvastatin therapy. Secondary objectives included evaluation of effects on other lipid parameters and the attainment of LDL-C treatment goals of <100 mg/dl (2.59 mmol/l) and <70 mg/dl (1.81 mmol/l).
Novel therapeutic agents for lowering low density lipoprotein cholesterol.	Elevated low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels have been associated with an increased risk for cardiovascular disease (CVD). Despite a 25-30% reduction in CVD risk with LDL-C reducing strategies, there is still a significant residual risk. Moreover, achieving target LDL-C values in individuals at high CVD risk is sometimes limited because of tolerability and/or efficacy. Thus, novel therapeutic agents are currently being developed to lower LDL-C levels further. This review will highlight some of these therapeutic agents including anti-sense oligonucleotides focused on apolipoprotein B, proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) inhibitors, microsomal triglyceride transfer protein inhibitors, and thyromimetics. For each therapeutic class, an overview of the mechanism of action, pharmacokinetic data, and efficacy/safety evidence will be provided.
Characterization of Escherichia coli nucleoids released by osmotic shock.	Nucleoids were isolated by osmotic shock from Escherichia coli spheroplasts at relatively low salt concentrations and in the absence of detergents. Sucrose-protected cells, made osmotically sensitive by growth in the presence of ampicillin or by digestion with low lysozyme concentrations (50-5 g/ml), were shocked by 100-fold dilution of the sucrose buffer. Liberated nucleoids stained with 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole dihydrochloride hydrate (DAPI), the dimeric cyanine dye TOTO-1, or fluorescent DNA-binding protein appeared as cloud-like structures, in the absence of phase contrast. Because UV-irradiation disrupted the DAPI-stained nucleoids within 5-10 s, they were imaged by time-lapse microscopy with exposure times less than 2 s. The volume of nucleoids isolated from ampicillin- or low-lysozyme spheroplasts and minimally exposed to UV (<2 s) was on average 42 m(3). Lysozyme at concentrations above 1 g/ml in the lysate compacted the nucleoids. Treatment with protease E or K (20-200 g/ml) and sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS; 0.001-0.01%) caused a twofold volume increase and showed a granular nucleoid at the earliest UV-exposure; the expansion could be reversed with 50 M ethidium bromide, but not with chloroquine. While DNase (1 g/ml) caused a rapid disruption of the nucleoids, RNase (0.1-400 g/ml) had no effect. DAPI-stained nucleoids treated with protease, SDS or DNase consisted of granular substructures at the earliest exposure similar to UV-disrupted nucleoids obtained after prolonged (>4 s) UV irradiation. We interpret the measured volume in terms of a physical model of the nucleoid viewed as a branched DNA supercoil crosslinked by adhering proteins into a homogeneous network.
Identification of the sperm-activating factor initiatorin, a prostatic endopeptidase of the silkworm, Bombyx mori.	Male Bombyx mori has a trypsin-type protease, called initiatorin, in the secretion from the posterior segment of the ejaculatory duct that is thought to be involved in the acquisition of sperm motility, although this inference remains to be demonstrated. Here, we revised the experimental procedures including that for purification and definitely identified the purified initiatorin protein as an activation factor of B. mori sperm by an in vitro study in which we treated isolated spermatozoa with this enzyme. Analysis of cDNA revealed that initiatorin consists of 281 amino acids with sequence similarity to bovine trypsin, and is highly homologous to the ejaculated accessory gland proteins not only of other Lepidoptera but also of Orthoptera. Recombinant initiatorin, expressed in Escherichia coli and purified, also showed proteolytic and sperm-activating activities. RT-PCR and Western blot analyses indicated that initiatorin is abundantly expressed in the glandula (g.) prostatica. It was also shown that pro-initiatorin is synthesized and stored in g. prostatica, and then converted to the mature form upon ejaculation. Fluorogenic peptides with a dibasic sequence were efficiently cleaved by initiatorin, and one such substrate, BOC-Gly-Arg-Arg-MCA, inhibited sperm activation by the extract of g. prostatica. These results delineate the idea that initiatorin has the most suitable protease property as an initiator of the protein degradation cascade in that it releases free arginines, which in turn become an energy resource for sperm motility.
PEGylation of a proprotein convertase peptide inhibitor for vaginal route of drug delivery: in vitro bioactivity, stability and in vivo pharmacokinetics.	Uterine proprotein convertase (PC) 6 is critical for embryo implantation in mice and women. It is also one of the PC family members that play a vital role in HIV infectivity. We hypothesized that inhibiting PC6 in the female reproductive tract (vagina, cervix and uterus), may protect women from both pregnancy and HIV infection. One key requirement to prove this concept in an animal model is a vaginally deliverable PC6 inhibitor. Nona-D-arginine (Poly R) is a potent peptide PC inhibitor and is able to inhibit HIV in cell culture. We modified Poly R by PEGylation with different strategies and determined their biochemical properties in vitro and in vivo. PEGylation at the C-terminus, regardless of the PEG size (30 kDa or 1239 Da) did not compromise the inhibitory potency of Poly R. In contrast, PEGylation at both termini (1239 Da) dramatically reduced its inhibitory activity. Poly R and C-PEGylated Poly Rs also showed equal potency in inhibiting a PC6-dependent cellular process critical for embryo implantation. Poly R and the equipotent C-PEGylated Poly Rs were further tested for their serum stability in vitro and pharmacokinetics in vivo following vaginal administration in mice. All Poly Rs were equally stable in mouse serum in vitro for 24h; C-PEGylated Poly Rs showed enhanced vaginal absorption and penetration across the vaginal mucosa/epithelium. This is the first report that C-terminal PEGylation significantly enhances the therapeutic properties of Poly R for vaginal drug delivery. Our findings also provide important insights into future design of Poly R derivatives.
Hemagglutinin activating host cell proteases provide promising drug targets for the treatment of influenza A and B virus infections.	Cleavage of the influenza virus hemagglutinin (HA) by host cell proteases is crucial for infectivity and spread of the virus. Some years ago, we identified TMPRSS2 and HAT from human airways as activating proteases of influenza A viruses containing a monobasic HA cleavage site. Therefore, these proteases are considered as potential drug targets. In this report, first we show that HA of influenza B virus is activated by TMPRSS2 and HAT, too. We further demonstrate that benzylsulfonyl-d-arginine-proline-4-amidinobenzylamide (BAPA), which is a potent inhibitor of HAT and TMPRSS2, efficiently suppresses virus propagation in TMPRSS2-expressing human airway epithelial cells by inhibition of HA cleavage. BAPA treatment reduced virus titers of different influenza A and B viruses more than 1000-fold and delayed virus propagation by 24-48 h at non-cytotoxic concentrations. A combination of BAPA with the neuraminidase (NA) inhibitor oseltamivir carboxylate efficiently blocked influenza virus replication in airway epithelial cells at remarkable lower concentrations for each compound than treatment with either inhibitor alone. Our studies provide a novel and potent approach for influenza chemotherapy that should be considered for influenza treatment.
Envelope glycoprotein of arenaviruses.	Arenaviruses include lethal human pathogens which pose serious public health threats. So far, no FDA approved vaccines are available against arenavirus infections, and therapeutic options are limited, making the identification of novel drug targets for the development of efficacious therapeutics an urgent need. Arenaviruses are comprised of two RNA genome segments and four proteins, the polymerase L, the envelope glycoprotein GP, the matrix protein Z, and the nucleoprotein NP. A crucial step in the arenavirus life-cycle is the biosynthesis and maturation of the GP precursor (GPC) by cellular signal peptidases and the cellular enzyme Subtilisin Kexin Isozyme-1 (SKI-1)/Site-1 Protease (S1P) yielding a tripartite mature GP complex formed by GP1/GP2 and a stable signal peptide (SSP). GPC cleavage by SKI-1/S1P is crucial for fusion competence and incorporation of mature GP into nascent budding virion particles. In a first part of our review, we cover basic aspects and newer developments in the biosynthesis of arenavirus GP and its molecular interaction with SKI-1/S1P. A second part will then highlight the potential of SKI-1/S1P-mediated processing of arenavirus GPC as a novel target for therapeutic intervention to combat human pathogenic arenaviruses.
Activation of hepatocyte growth factor-induced apoptosis in hepatic stellate cells]	To determine whether apoptosis is induced in rat hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) in response to activation of the hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) by hepatocyte growth factor activator (HGFA) by using a co-culture system of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) and HSCs.
Reelin signaling in development, maintenance, and plasticity of neural networks.	The developing brain is formed through an orchestrated pattern of neuronal migration, leading to the formation of heterogeneous functional regions in the adult. Several proteins and pathways have been identified as mediators of developmental neuronal migration and cell positioning. However, these pathways do not cease to be functionally relevant after the embryonic and early postnatal period; instead, they switch from guiding cells, to guiding synapses. The outcome of synaptic guidance determines the strength and plasticity of neuronal networks by creating a scalable functional architecture that is sculpted by cues from the internal and external environment. Reelin is a multifunctional signal that coordinates cortical and subcortical morphogenesis during development and regulates structural plasticity in adulthood and aging. Gain or loss of function in reelin or its receptors has the potential to influence synaptic strength and patterns of connectivity, with consequences for memory and cognition. The current review highlights similarities in the signaling cascades that modulate neuronal positioning during development, and synaptic plasticity in the adult, with a focus on reelin, a glycoprotein that is increasingly recognized for its dual role in the formation and maintenance of neural circuits. 
"What we've got here is failure to communicate": zou mutants and endosperm cell death in seed development.	ZHOUPI, a unique and highly conserved bHLH transcription factor, controls both endosperm breakdown and embryonic surface formation during Arabidopsis seed development. We have demonstrated that these two processes are distinct, and that ZHOUPI regulates embryonic surface formation via a signaling pathway mediated by the subtilisin-like serine protease ABNORMAL LEAF SHAPE1, and the receptor-kinases GASSHO1 and GASSHO2. Gene expression profiling in mutant backgrounds has permitted the identification of genes whose expression depends on both ZHOUPI and ABNORMAL LEAF SHAPE1 and genes whose expression depends uniquely on ZHOUPI. The latter are presumably involved specifically in endosperm breakdown, and we discuss this poorly understood process in the light of our results. Finally, we consider the potential ancestral role of ZHOUPI and discuss how its relationship with ABNORMAL LEAF SHAPE1 may have evolved. 
Urinary prostasin excretion is associated with adiposity in nonhypertensive African-American adolescents.	Metabolic abnormalities in obesity can overstimulate the renal epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) and subsequently lead to blood pressure (BP) elevation. Prostasin, a membrane-bound/secretive serine protease, is thought to activate ENaC via the proteolytic cleavage of the channel. Our specific aim was to explore whether there is a relationship between adiposity and urinary prostasin excretion at the population level.
Structure-activity relationships of s-casein peptides with multifunctional biological activities.	Multifunctional bioactive peptides have a wider role in modulating physiological functions and possess multiple biological activities. Peptides from bovine milk with sequences QKALNEINQF [p10] and TKKTKLTEEEKNRL [p14] from -S2 casein f (79-88) and -S2 casein f (148-161) were identified to be having multifunctional biological activities and were synthesized. These synthesized peptides show various biological activities like angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition, prolyl endopeptidase inhibition, antioxidant, and antimicrobial activities. The mode of antimicrobial mechanism was studied and p10 shows depolarization of cell membrane, whereas p14 was found to display DNA-binding activity. Structural studies envisaged backbone flexibility, for differences in their mode of action. Peptide structure function studies were correlated to understand their multifunctional biological activity. 
Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus infection mediated by the transmembrane serine protease TMPRSS2.	The Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) utilizes host proteases for virus entry into lung cells. In the current study, Vero cells constitutively expressing type II transmembrane serine protease (Vero-TMPRSS2 cells) showed larger syncytia at 18 h after infection with MERS-CoV than after infection with other coronaviruses. Furthermore, the susceptibility of Vero-TMPRSS2 cells to MERS-CoV was 100-fold higher than that of non-TMPRSS2-expressing parental Vero cells. The serine protease inhibitor camostat, which inhibits TMPRSS2 activity, completely blocked syncytium formation but only partially blocked virus entry into Vero-TMPRSS2 cells. Importantly, the coronavirus is thought to enter cells via two distinct pathways, one mediated by TMPRSS2 at the cell surface and the other mediated by cathepsin L in the endosome. Simultaneous treatment with inhibitors of cathepsin L and TMPRSS2 completely blocked virus entry into Vero-TMPRSS2 cells, indicating that MERS-CoV employs both the cell surface and the endosomal pathway to infect Vero-TMPRSS2 cells. In contrast, a single camostat treatment suppressed MERS-CoV entry into human bronchial submucosal gland-derived Calu-3 cells by 10-fold and virus growth by 270-fold, although treatment with both camostat and (23,25)-trans-epoxysuccinyl-L-leucylamindo-3-methylbutane ethyl ester, a cathepsin inhibitor, or treatment with leupeptin, an inhibitor of cysteine, serine, and threonine peptidases, was no more efficacious than treatment with camostat alone. Further, these inhibitors were not efficacious against MERS-CoV infection of MRC-5 and WI-38 cells, which were derived from lung, but these characters differed from those of mature pneumocytes. These results suggest that a single treatment with camostat is sufficient to block MERS-CoV entry into a well-differentiated lung-derived cell line.
Antiviral cationic peptides as a strategy for innovation in global health therapeutics for dengue virus: high yield production of the biologically active recombinant plectasin peptide.	Dengue virus infects millions of people worldwide, and there is no vaccine or anti-dengue therapeutic available. Antimicrobial peptides have been shown to possess effective antiviral activity against various viruses. One of the main limitations of developing these peptides as potent antiviral drugs is the high cost of production. In this study, high yield production of biologically active plectasin peptide was inexpensively achieved by producing tandem plectasin peptides as inclusion bodies in E. coli. Antiviral activity of the recombinant peptide towards dengue serotype-2 NS2B-NS3 protease (DENV2 NS2B-NS3pro) was assessed as a target to inhibit dengue virus replication in Vero cells. Single units of recombinant plectasin were collected after applying consecutive steps of refolding, cleaving by Factor Xa, and nickel column purification to obtain recombinant proteins of high purity. The maximal nontoxic dose (MNTD) of the recombinant peptide against Vero cells was 20M (100g/mL). The reaction velocity of DENV2 NS2B-NS3pro decreased significantly after increasing concentrations of recombinant plectasin were applied to the reaction mixture. Plectasin peptide noncompetitively inhibited DENV2 NS2B-NS3pro at Ki value of 5.03  0.98M. The percentage of viral inhibition was more than 80% at the MNTD value of plectasin. In this study, biologically active recombinant plectasin which was able to inhibit dengue protease and viral replication in Vero cells was successfully produced in E. coli in a time- and cost- effective method. These findings are potentially important in the development of potent therapeutics against dengue infection.
DNA damage responses in prokaryotes: regulating gene expression, modulating growth patterns, and manipulating replication forks.	Recent advances in the area of bacterial DNA damage responses are reviewed here. The SOS pathway is still the major paradigm of bacterial DNA damage response, and recent studies have clarified the mechanisms of SOS induction and key physiological roles of SOS including a very major role in genetic exchange and variation. When considering diverse bacteria, it is clear that SOS is not a uniform pathway with one purpose, but rather a platform that has evolved for differing functions in different bacteria. Relating in part to the SOS response, the field has uncovered multiple apparent cell-cycle checkpoints that assist cell survival after DNA damage and remarkable pathways that induce programmed cell death in bacteria. Bacterial DNA damage responses are also much broader than SOS, and several important examples of LexA-independent regulation will be reviewed. Finally, some recent advances that relate to the replication and repair of damaged DNA will be summarized. 
Preprodynorphin-expressing neurons constitute a large subgroup of somatostatin-expressing GABAergic interneurons in the mouse neocortex.	Dynorphins, leumorphin, and neoendorphins are preprodynorphin (PPD)-derived peptides and ligands for -opioid receptors. Using an antibody to PPD C-terminal, we investigated the chemical and molecular characteristics of PPD-expressing neurons in mouse neocortex. PPD-immunopositive neuronal somata were distributed most frequently in layer 5 and less frequently in layers 2-4 and 6 throughout neocortical regions. Combined labeling of immunofluorescence and fluorescent mRNA signals revealed that almost all PPD-immunopositive neurons expressed glutamic acid decarboxylase but not vesicular glutamate transporter, indicating their -aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic characteristics, and that PPD-immunopositive neurons accounted for 15% of GABAergic interneurons in the primary somatosensory area. As GABAergic interneurons were divided into several groups by specific markers, we further examined the chemical characteristics of PPD-expressing neurons by the double immunofluorescence labeling method. More than 95% of PPD-immunopositive neurons were also somatostatin (SOM)-immunopositive in the primary somatosensory, primary motor, orbitofrontal, and primary visual areas, but only 24% were SOM-immunopositive in the medial prefrontal cortex. In the primary somatosensory area, PPD-immunopositive neurons constituted 50%, 79%, 55%, and 17% of SOM-immunopositive neurons in layers 2-3, 4, 5, and 6, respectively. Although SOM-expressing neurons contained calretinin-, neuropeptide Y-, nitric oxide synthase-, and reelin-expressing neurons as subgroups, only reelin immunoreactivity was detected in many PPD-immunopositive neurons. These results indicate that PPD-expressing neurons constitute a large subgroup of SOM-expressing cortical interneurons, and the PPD/SOM-expressing GABAergic neurons might serve not only as inhibitory elements in the local cortical circuit, but also as modulators for cortical neurons expressing -opioid and/or SOM receptors.
PCSK9 and resistin at the crossroads of the atherogenic dyslipidemia.	The atherogenic dyslipidemia is a pathophysiological lipid triad, composed of high triglycerides and low-density lipoprotein and low high-density lipoprotein. The dyslipidemia is highly prevalent in individuals who are obese, insulin resistant and those with Type 2 diabetes and is the major contributing factor to the high atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease risk in these subjects. The primary initiating event in atherogenic dyslipidemia development is the hepatic overproduction of very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL). The intracellular and extracellular protein triggers of hepatic VLDL production were not known until the recent identification of the causal roles of PCSK9 and resistin. Both PCSK9 and resistin act in large part by targeting and reducing the hepatic degradation of VLDL apoB through distinctly different mechanisms. In the current review, we discuss both the individual roles and the interaction of these proteins in driving atherogenic dyslipidemia, and thus, atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease progression in humans. We further explore the important therapeutic implications of these findings. 
The gluten-free diet: testing alternative cereals tolerated by celiac patients.	A strict gluten-free diet (GFD) is the only currently available therapeutic treatment for patients with celiac disease, an autoimmune disorder of the small intestine associated with a permanent intolerance to gluten proteins. The complete elimination of gluten proteins contained in cereals from the diet is the key to celiac disease management. However, this generates numerous social and economic repercussions due to the ubiquity of gluten in foods. The research presented in this review focuses on the current status of alternative cereals and pseudocereals and their derivatives obtained by natural selection, breeding programs and transgenic or enzymatic technology, potential tolerated by celiac people. Finally, we describe several strategies for detoxification of dietary gluten. These included enzymatic cleavage of gliadin fragment by Prolyl endopeptidases (PEPs) from different organisms, degradation of toxic peptides by germinating cereal enzymes and transamidation of cereal flours. This information can be used to search for and develop cereals with the baking and nutritional qualities of toxic cereals, but which do not exacerbate this condition. 
Identification of potential hit compounds for Dengue virus NS2B/NS3 protease inhibitors by combining virtual screening and binding free energy calculations.	Dengue virus (DV) infections are a serious public health problem and there is currently no vaccine or drug treatment. NS2B/NS3 protease, an essential enzyme for viral replication, is one of the promising targets in the search for drugs against DV. In this research work, virtual screening (VS) was carried out on four multi-conformational databases using several criteria. Firstly, molecular dynamics simulations of the NS2B/NS3 protease and four known inhibitors, which reveal an importance of both electrostatic and van der Waals interactions in stabilizing the ligand-enzyme interaction, were used to generate three different pharmacophore models (a structure-based, a static and a dynamic). Subsequently, these three models were employed for pharmacophore search in the VS. Secondly, compounds passing the first criterion were further reduced using the Lipinski's rule of five to keep only compounds with drug-like properties. Thirdly, molecular docking calculations were performed to remove compounds with unsuitable ligand-enzyme interactions. Finally, binding free energy of each compound was calculated. Compounds having better energy than the known inhibitors were selected and thus 20 potential hits were obtained. 
An update on the clinical development of proprotein convertase subtilisin kexin 9 inhibitors, novel therapeutic agents for lowering low-density lipoprotein cholesterol.	Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) plays an essential role in the degradation of low-density lipoprotein C (LDL-C) receptors, and PCSK9 inhibitors have recently emerged as a potential treatment option to reduce LDL-C. Our paper reviewed the current available Phase II clinical trials of PCSK9 inhibitors for the treatment of dyslipidemia. A second objective of this review was to evaluate the potential clinical role of PCSK9 inhibitors in the management of dyslipidemia. Studies evaluating the efficacy and safety of any PCSK9 inhibitors in patients with dyslipidemia were included. The monoclonal antibodies REGN727/SAR236553 and AMG145 have the most published clinical data. Seven phase II trials were retrieved that evaluated the efficacy and safety of REGN727/SAR236553 or AMG145 in patients with either hypercholesterolemia or heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). These two agents significantly decreased LDL-C levels either as monotherapy or in combination with other lipid-lowering agents. REGN727/SAR236553 and AMG145 have been well tolerated. The ongoing phase III trials of these two agents are summarized. REGN727/SAR236553 and AMG145 have demonstrated the potential to further decrease LDL-C levels when added to conventional lipid-lowering therapy. Morbidity and mortality data are required to define their roles in clinical practice. 
A secretable serine proteinase with highly restricted specificity from cytolytic T lymphocytes inactivates retrovirus-associated reverse transcriptase.	TSP-1, a murine T cell specific proteinase, is expressed in cytolytic T lymphocytes and secreted upon their interaction with antigen bearing target cells. In searching for possible extracellular substrates of the enzyme in the physiological environment of cytolytic effector cells, we have investigated the proteolytic activity of TSP-1 on retroviral proteins. It is shown that reverse transcriptase derived from the retrovirus Moloney murine leukemia virus is inactivated by TSP-1 via limited proteolysis. The data suggest the possibility that cytolytic T lymphocytes are able to interfere with retroviral replication by secreting a serine proteinase which degrades viral proteins.
Persephone/Sptzle pathogen sensors mediate the activation of Toll receptor signaling in response to endogenous danger signals in apoptosis-deficient Drosophila.	Apoptosis is an evolutionarily conserved mechanism that removes damaged or unwanted cells, effectively maintaining cellular homeostasis. It has long been suggested that a deficiency in this type of naturally occurring cell death could potentially lead to necrosis, resulting in the release of endogenous immunogenic molecules such as damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs) and a noninfectious inflammatory response. However, the details about how danger signals from apoptosis-deficient cells are detected and translated to an immune response are largely unknown. In this study, we found that Drosophila mutants deficient for Dronc, the key initiator caspase required for apoptosis, produced the active form of the endogenous Toll ligand Sptzle (Spz). We speculated that, as a system for sensing potential DAMPs in the hemolymph, the dronc mutants constitutively activate a proteolytic cascade that leads to Spz proteolytic processing. We demonstrated that Toll signaling activation required the action of Persephone, a CLIP domain serine protease that usually reacts to microbial proteolytic activities. Our findings show that the Persephone proteolytic cascade plays a crucial role in mediating DAMP-induced systemic responses in apoptosis-deficient Drosophila mutants. 
The sodium ion translocating oxalacetate decarboxylase of Klebsiella pneumoniae. Sequence of the biotin-containing alpha-subunit and relationship to other biotin-containing enzymes.	The gene encoding the alpha-subunit of the Na+ pump oxalacetate decarboxylase of Klebsiella pneumoniae was cloned and sequenced. The deduced primary structure of the protein was confirmed by protein sequencing of about 30% of the polypeptide chain. The gene has a GC content of 67% and codes for 596 amino acids. The N-terminal methionine is removed in the mature protein which has a calculated molecular mass of 63,600 daltons. The protein consists of two different domains that are connected by a stretch of amino acid residues susceptible to proteolytic cleavage. Limited proteolysis of the native enzyme with trypsin produced fragments of about 51 kDa and 10.2 kDa, the latter of which started with valine 491 and contained the biotin prosthetic group. Peptide sequencing indicated binding of the biotin prosthetic group to lysine 561, 35 residues from the C terminus. The decarboxylase contains an extended alanine- and proline-rich region (positions 502-532) on the N-terminal side of the 10.2-kDa biotin domain. This sequence includes a total of 16 alanine and 9 proline residues.
Fibroblast-activation protein: valuable marker of cutaneous epithelial malignancy.	Fibroblast-activation protein (FAP) is a key protein that is characteristically expressed by carcinoma-associated fibroblasts (CAFs). It has been shown to be expressed in CAFs of 90% of internal epithelial cancers as well as cutaneous epithelial malignancies. We have recently shown that this marker is useful in differentiating between morpheaform/infiltrative BCC from desmoplastic trichoepithelioma (TE). Given this, we sought to assess FAP expression in both benign and malignant cutaneous epithelial entities. Immunohistochemical FAP staining was performed on BCC (n=26), SCC (n=26), porocarcinoma (n=10), metastatic adenocarcinoma (n=12), keratoacanthoma (KA) (n=16), TE (n=14), pseudoepitheliomatous hyperplasia (n=15), poroma (n=15), syringoma (n=10), and chondroid syringoma (n=6). Control group consisted of scars (n=10). FAP expression was observed in all scars and all malignant entities, but not in any of the benign cases. Interestingly, ten KA cases exhibited positivity, whereas six were negative. In summary, FAP is a reliable marker of cutaneous epithelial malignancy. 
Caveolin-1 in lipid rafts interacts with dengue virus NS3 during polyprotein processing and replication in HMEC-1 cells.	Lipid rafts are ordered microdomains within cellular membranes that are rich in cholesterol and sphingolipids. Caveolin (Cav-1) and flotillin (Flt-1) are markers of lipid rafts, which serve as an organizing center for biological phenomena and cellular signaling. Lipid rafts involvement in dengue virus (DENV) processing, replication, and assembly remains poorly characterized. Here, we investigated the role of lipid rafts after DENV endocytosis in human microvascular endothelial cells (HMEC-1). The non-structural viral proteins NS3 and NS2B, but not NS5, were associated with detergent-resistant membranes. In sucrose gradients, both NS3 and NS2B proteins appeared in Cav-1 and Flt-1 rich fractions. Additionally, double immunofluorescence staining of DENV-infected HMEC-1 cells showed that NS3 and NS2B, but not NS5, colocalized with Cav-1 and Flt-1. Furthermore, in HMEC-1cells transfected with NS3 protease, shown a strong overlap between NS3 and Cav-1, similar to that in DENV-infected cells. In contrast, double-stranded viral RNA (dsRNA) overlapped weakly with Cav-1 and Flt-1. Given these results, we investigated whether Cav-1 directly interacted with NS3. Cav-1 and NS3 co-immunoprecipitated, indicating that they resided within the same complex. Furthermore, when cellular cholesterol was depleted by methyl-beta cyclodextrin treatment after DENV entrance, lipid rafts were disrupted, NS3 protein level was reduced, besides Cav-1 and NS3 were displaced to fractions 9 and 10 in sucrose gradient analysis, and we observed a dramatically reduction of DENV particles release. These data demonstrate the essential role of caveolar cholesterol-rich lipid raft microdomains in DENV polyprotein processing and replication during the late stages of the DENV life cycle. 
Proteomic analysis of Vibrio cholerae outer membrane vesicles.	Outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) produced by Gram-negative bacteria provide an interesting research material for defining cell-envelope proteins without experimental cell disruption. OMVs are also promising immunogenic platforms and may play important roles in bacterial survival and pathogenesis. We used in-solution trypsin digestion coupled to mass spectrometry to identify 90 proteins present in OMVs of Vibrio cholerae when grown under conditions that activate the TCP pilus virulence regulatory protein (ToxT) virulence regulon. The ToxT expression profile and potential contribution to virulence of these proteins were assessed using ToxT and in vivo RNA-seq, Tn-seq, and cholera stool proteomic and other genome-wide data sets. Thirteen OMV-associated proteins appear to be essential for cell growth, and therefore may represent antibacterial drug targets. Another 12 nonessential OMV proteins, including DegP protease, were required for intestinal colonization in rabbits. Comparative proteomics of a degP mutant revealed the importance of DegP in the incorporation of nine proteins into OMVs, including ones involved in biofilm matrix formation and various substrates of the type II secretion system. Taken together, these results suggest that DegP plays an important role in determining the content of OMVs and also affects phenotypes such as intestinal colonization, proper function of the type II secretion system, and formation of biofilm matrix. 
Alirocumab for hyperlipidemia: physiology of PCSK9 inhibition, pharmacodynamics and Phase I and II clinical trial results of a PCSK9 monoclonal antibody.	Statins have been the cornerstone of lipid therapy for the last two decades, but despite significant clinical efficacy in the majority of patients, a large residual risk remains for the development of initial or recurrent atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. In addition, owing to side effects, a significant percentage of patients cannot tolerate any statin dose or a high enough statin dose to reach their recommended LDL cholesterol goals. Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) to PCSK9 have recently been shown to be highly efficacious in lowering LDL cholesterol, while demonstrating a favorable adverse event profile in early clinical trials. This review of alirocumab (formerly REGN727/SAR236553) explains the physiology and pharmacodynamics of PCSK9 inhibition with a mAb, as well as the Phase I and II clinical trial results of alirocumab and the ongoing Phase III trial designs. Several mAbs to PCSK9 are currently in development and approval may be 1-3 years away. We will focus this review on alirocumab, but mAbs to PCSK9 are the most promising cholesterol-lowering medication since statins and have the potential to significantly reduce further the occurrence of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.
Protease nexin I, a serpin, inhibits plasminogen-dependent degradation of muscle extracellular matrix.	Clonal, fusing, mouse skeletal muscle cells (C2) were grown to the myotube stage (90% confluence) before they were subjected to isotope-containing serum-free media (3H-proline or 35S-methionine). C2 myotubes secrete and organize a biosynthetically labeled matrix which adheres to the plastic after removal of myotubes with detergent and ammonium hydroxide. When these homotypic-labeled myotube matrices were incubated with myoblast-conditioned media containing high specific activity urokinase-type plasminogen activator, slow, but clearly detectable, release of label occurred. However, degradation of matrix, with solubilization of label, was accelerated sixfold by addition of human plasminogen to diluted myoblast-conditioned media. If protease nexin I, a cellular serine protease inhibitor purified from human fibroblast-conditioned media, was added (0.2 microgram/ml) with plasminogen, inhibition of matrix hydrolysis by 52% occurred. Higher concentrations (0.8 microgram/ml or above) of protease nexin 1 completely inhibited the degradation of extracellular matrix components. A similar protease inhibitor was purified from C2 myotube-conditioned media, and this molecule also inhibited the plasminogen-dependent release of extracellular matrix. We propose that protease nexin 1 inhibits the destruction of myotube matrix by inactivating the plasmin/plasminogen activation system and may be the physiologic regulator of this system during muscle development in vivo.
Metabolism of leukotriene D4 by rat peritoneal mast cells.	Metabolism of sulfidopeptide leukotrienes, leukotrienes (LT) C4 and D4 by rat peritoneal mast cells was studied. Rat peritoneal mast cells converted LTD4 to LTE4 but not LTC4 to LTD4. The LTD4-metabolizing activity was equally distributed on the cell surface and inside cells, but not released to the extracellular milieu even when a considerable portion of histamine and the secretory granule enzymes were released. Among various enzyme inhibitors examined, o-phenanthroline, a metal chelator, and dithiothreitol significantly suppressed the LTD4-metabolizing activity of mast cell. These results would suggest that some metalloenzyme located on the cell surface is involved in the conversion of LTD4 to LTE4 by rat peritoneal mast cells.
The activation of bovine protein C by factor Xa.	A complex composed of factor Xa and phospholipid vesicles assembled in the presence of calcium ions catalyzes a discrete cleavage of the heavy chain of bovine protein C that is indistinguishable from that produced by thrombin as judged by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. This cleavage generates an active site capable of hydrolyzing small substrates and inactivating factor Va function in the prothrombinase complex. Activation of protein C by factor Xa requires both calcium ions and phospholipid vesicles and proceeds at a rate an order of magnitude greater than that observed for alpha-thrombin in solution. gamma-Carboxyglutamic acid-domainless protein C is not activated by factor Xa, consistent with the requirement for phospholipid and distinguishing this reaction from protein C activation by thrombin. Thrombomodulin serves as a cofactor for the factor Xa-catalyzed reaction, forming a 1:1 complex with factor Xa (apparent Kd = 5.7 X 10(-10) M) and stimulating the saturated rate of protein C activation by factor Xa (kcat = 149 min-1) to levels comparable with the thrombin-thrombomodulin complex. Protein C activation by factor Xa is not inhibited by the specific thrombin inhibitor dansyl-N-(3-ethyl-1,5-pentanediyl)amide but is inhibited by antithrombin III, tripeptide-chloromethyl ketones, and the monoclonal antibody alpha-BFX-2b that is highly specific for factor Xa. These data indicate that thrombomodulin is promiscuous in its role as a cofactor and suggest the existence of an alternative pathway for protein C activation in vivo.
Long-term culturing of TPA-induced differentiated HL-60 cells results in increased levels of lytic enzymes.	After exposure to 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA), cells of the promyelocytic leukemia cell line, HL-60, differentiate into macrophage-like cells. Within 24 h the cells adhere to the surface of the culture flask and increase production of nonspecific esterases. The intracellular concentration of the serine proteases increases two- to threefold within 4 days and continues to increase as the cells develop into mature macrophages. The acid hydrolases, lysozyme and beta-glucuronidase, were secreted by the differentiated cells. Both the intracellular and extracellular concentrations of these enzymes continued to increase as the cells matured. The fully differentiated cells readily phagocytized opsonized yeast cells. Phagocytosis had little effect on the secretion of acid hydrolases, while intracellular proteases increased significantly. The fully differentiated HL-60 cells resembled normal macrophages regarding all parameters studied. Viability of the differentiated cells exceeded 50% when cultured for 30 days. Therefore, these cells should prove to be a useful tool for the study of macrophage function with respect to microorganisms that are resistant to destruction by phagocytic cells.
Topography and microfilament core association of a cell surface glycoprotein of ascites tumor cell microvilli.	Membrane-microfilament interactions are being investigated in microvilli isolated from 13762 rat mammary ascites tumor cells. These microvilli are covered by a sialomucin complex, composed of the sialomucin ascites sialoglycoprotein-1 (ASGP-1) and the associated concanavalin A (Con A)-binding glycoprotein ASGP-2. Limited proteolysis of the microvilli releases large, highly glycosylated fragments of ASGP-1 from the microvilli and increases the association of ASGP-2 with the Triton-insoluble microvillar microfilament core (Vanderpuye OA, Carraway CAC, Carraway, KL: Exp Cell Res 178:211, 1988). To analyze the topography of ASGP-2 in the membrane and its association with the microfilament core, microvilli were treated with proteinase K for timed intervals and centrifuged. The pelleted microvilli were extracted with Triton X-100 for the preparation of microfilament cores and Triton-soluble proteins or with 0.1 M carbonate, pH 11, for the preparation of microvillar membranes depleted of peripheral membrane proteins. These microvilli fractions were analyzed by dodecyl sulfate gel electrophoresis, lectin blotting with Con A and L-phytohemagglutinin, and immunoblotting with anti-ASGP-2. The earliest major proteolysis product from this procedure was a 70 kDa membrane-bound fragment. At longer times a 60 kDa released fragment, 30-40 kDa Triton-soluble fragments, and 25-30 kDa membrane- and microfilament-associated fragments were observed. Phalloidin shift analysis of microfilament-associated proteins on velocity sedimentation gradients indicated that the 25-30 kDa fragments were strongly associated with the microfilament core. From these studies we propose that ASGP-2 has a site for indirect association with the microfilament core near the membrane on a 15-20 kDa segment.
Detection of intermediates in the unfolding transition of phosphoglycerate kinase using limited proteolysis.	The accessibility of peptide bonds to cleavage by Staphylococcus aureus V8 protease bound on a Sepharose matrix was used as a conformational probe in the study of the unfolding-folding transition of phosphoglycerate kinase induced by guanidine hydrochloride. It was shown that the protein is resistant to proteolysis below a denaturant concentration of 0.4 M. The transition curve, determined by susceptibility toward proteolysis, was similar to that obtained following the enzyme activity [Betton et al. (1984) Biochemistry 23, 6654-6661]. Proteolysis under conditions where the folding intermediates are more populated, i.e., 0.7 M Gdn.HCl, gave two major fragments of Mr 25K and 11K, respectively. The 25K polypeptide fragment was identified as the carboxy-terminal domain. Its conformation was similar to that of a folding intermediate trapped at a critical concentration of denaturant, and in this form, it was not able to bind nucleotide substrates [Mitraki et al. (1987) Eur. J. Biochem. 163, 29-34]. From the present data and those previously reported, we concluded that the intermediate detected on the folding pathway of phosphoglycerate kinase has a partially folded carboxy-terminal domain and an unfolded amino-terminal domain.
Free factor Xa is on the main pathway of thrombin generation in clotting plasma.	The effect of a synthetic pentasaccharide that specifically causes the inactivation of factor Xa on the development of prothrombinase activity in human plasma was monitored using four triggers of coagulation: (a) human brain thromboplastin; (b) contact activation; (c) factor X activating enzyme complex; (d) prothrombin activating enzyme complex. Inhibition was similar with the triggers a, b and c. With prothrombinase (d), the inhibition strongly decreased with increasing amounts of factor Va present. This indicates that only free factor Xa is inhibited. Because both the intrinsic pathway (b) and the extrinsic pathway (a) are inhibited by the pentasaccharide, we conclude that free factor Xa plays a rate-limiting role in the pathways, so that there is no reason to postulate the existence of 'supercomplexes' consisting of factors IXa, VIIIa, X(a), Va and prothrombin adsorbed on the same phospholipid particle (intrinsic system) or factor VII(a), X(a), Va and prothrombin adsorbed on tissue thromboplastin (extrinsic system).
Primary structure of H2-proteinase, a non-hemorrhagic metalloproteinase, isolated from the venom of the habu snake, Trimeresurus flavoviridis.	The complete amino acid sequence of and the locations of disulfide bridges in H2-proteinase, a major non-hemorrhagic proteinase isolated from the venom of the habu Trimeresurus flavoviridis, have been determined and compared with those of HR2a, one of the hemorrhagic metalloproteinases in this venom. The strategy involved consisted of structural analysis of peptides in digests with cyanogen bromide, lysyl endopeptidase, trypsin, Staphylococcus aureus V8 protease and thermolysin. Peptides were purified by gel filtration followed by reversed-phase HPLC. H2-proteinase is a non-glycosylated single chain polypeptide consisting of 201 amino acids with an amino-terminal pyroglutamic acid, a calculated molecular weight of 22,991 and a net charge of +14 at neutral pH. There was no evidence of heterogeneity of the sequence. H2-proteinase has a typical zinc-chelating sequence and its overall sequence identity with HR2a is 73.6%. The 3 disulfide bridges in H2-proteinase link Cys-117 to Cys-196, Cys-158 to Cys-180, and Cys-160 to Cys-163, in the same manner as in the case of HR2a. In striking contrast to HR2a, it contains en extra free cysteine residue at position 94 which becomes reactive to a sulfhydryl reagent in the presence of a denaturant.
Amino acid sequence of porcine cardiac muscle troponin C.	Troponin C is the Ca2+-receptive protein located on the thin filament of striated and cardiac muscle. We have determined the amino acid sequence of troponin C obtained from porcine cardiac muscle by sequencing and aligning the lysyl endopeptidase and Staphylococcus aureus V-8 protease peptides. It was composed of 161 amino acid residues with a blocked N-terminus. The sequence of porcine cardiac troponin C was identical with that of bovine cardiac troponin C.
The role of proteolytic processes in the stimulation of lipolysis in the adipose tissue by somatotropin, adrenocorticotropin and beta-lipotropin]	The influence of proteinase inhibitors on the lipotropic effect of somatotropic (STH), adrenocorticotropic (ACTH) and beta-lipotropic (LPH) hormones in adipose tissue was studied in vitro. The effect of STH was found to be completely dependent on the activity of tissue serine proteinases of trypsin and chymotrypsin types. The effect of LPH partly depended on serine proteinases of chymotrypsin type, whereas that of ACTH--on chymotrypsin and carboxylic proteinases. The effects of all the three hormones were also manifested during lysosomal proteolysis. The protease-dependent inhibition was specific for polypeptide hormones and was unobserved in the lipotropic effect of adrenaline. The inhibiting effect of serine proteinase inhibitors on hormones pretreated with blood plasma or proteinases was much weaker than on untreated hormones. In adipose tissue the early insulin-like effect of STH, unlike the late lipotropic effect, was independent of proteolysis. It was assumed that primary proteolysis plays a role in the activation of polypeptide hormones which is necessary for the manifestation of the lipotropic action.
Dynamics of protein conformational fluctuation in enzyme catalysis with special attention to proton transfers in serine proteinases.	We have provided a quantum mechanical model for proteinase-catalyzed peptide, amide and ester hydrolysis. The model rests on electron and atom transfer theory, but incorporates the dynamics of conformational nuclear modes as a new element. The model is applied to acylation, but can straightaway be extended to deacylation, and is substantiated by recent structural and kinetic data for proteinase enzyme catalysis. The role of the conformational modes is found to be two-fold. First, the crystallographic distances for the proton transfers involved are far too large for direct transfer. His-57 mobility, handled stochastically, to bring the donor and acceptor groups within suitable reach, is therefore a crucial element of the theory. Secondly, the charge alignment in the Asp-102/His-57/tetrahedral intermediate system implies that the curvature of the potential surface along the conformational coordinates in this state is much lower than in the initial enzyme-substrate and final acyl states. A consequence of this is that the activation energy liberated after the first proton transfer is not dissipated, but stored in the conformational system and used in the second proton transfer step.
A bacteriophage T4 gene which functions to inhibit Escherichia coli Lon protease.	A bacteriophage T4 gene which functions to inhibit Escherichia coli Lon protease has been identified. This pin (proteolysis inhibition) gene was selected for its ability to support plaque formation by a lambda Ots vector at 40 degrees C. Southern blot experiments indicated that this T4 gene is included within the 4.9-kilobase XbaI fragment which contains gene 49. Subcloning experiments showed that T4 gene 49.1 (designated pinA) is responsible for the ability of the Ots vector to form plaques at 40 degrees C. Deficiencies in Lon protease activity are the only changes known in E. coli that permit lambda Ots phage to form plaques efficiently at 40 degrees C. lon+ lysogens of the lambda Ots vector containing pinA permitted a lambda Ots phage to form plaques efficiently at 40 degrees C. Furthermore, these lysogens, upon comparison with similar lysogens lacking any T4 DNA, showed reduced levels of degradation of puromycyl polypeptides and of canavanyl proteins. The lon+ lysogens that contained pinA exhibited other phenotypic characteristics common to lon strains, such as filamentation and production of mucoid colonies. Levels of degradation of canavanyl proteins were essentially the same, however, in null lon lysogens which either contained or lacked pinA. We infer from these data that the T4 pinA gene functions to block Lon protease activity; pinA does not, however, appear to block the activity of proteases other than Lon that are involved in the degradation of abnormal proteins.
Villin sequence and peptide map identify six homologous domains.	Site-specific proteases and antisera to the amino terminus of villin have been used to show that villin is organized into seven protease-resistant domains. Six are contained in the amino-terminal Mr 87,000 villin core, a Ca2+-regulated actin-severing fragment, whereas the carboxyl-terminal domain includes the villin "headpiece," a fragment involved in bundling of actin filaments. Ca2+ inhibits proteolytic cleavage between domains in the amino-terminal half of villin. The protein sequence of villin deduced from a single cDNA clone contains a conserved sequence that is repeated six times and is found in each domain of the villin core. The conserved repeats are found in other actin-severing proteins but not in the villin headpiece. Our results suggest that actin-severing proteins are organized around a common Mr 14,000-17,000 domain.
Alterations of amino acid repeats in the Escherichia coli hemolysin affect cytolytic activity and secretion.	The primary structure of the Escherichia coli hemolysin polypeptide (HlyA) is used to predict intramolecular structures involved in the secretion and cytolytic activity of the molecule. The C-terminal region of HlyA contains a repeated, 8-amino acid chain represented by the consensus sequence Leu-Xaa-Gly-Gly-Xaa-Gly-Asn-Asp. Three in vitro derived mutations of hlyA are described that encode molecules missing various portions of the C-terminal region, including the repeat region. The wild-type and mutated HlyA molecules were analyzed for the ability to be secreted and to lyse erythrocytes. Hemolytic activity absolutely requires the presence of the repeats. The ability of the mutated HlyA molecules to initiate membrane translocation and be secreted required the presence of the C terminus and, to a degree, the repeated amino acid octets.
In vitro expression in eukaryotic cells of a prion protein gene cloned from scrapie-infected mouse brain.	It has been proposed that the causative agent of scrapie represents a class of infectious particle that is devoid of nucleic acid and that an altered form of the endogenous prion protein (PrP) is the agent. However, it has been difficult to exclude the possibility that PrP purified from scrapie tissues might be contaminated with a more conventional viral agent. To obtain PrP uncontaminated by scrapie-infected tissues, PrP cDNA cloned from a scrapie-infected mouse brain was expressed in mouse C127 cells in vitro. mRNA and protein encoded by the cloned PrP gene were identified. The expressed PrP polypeptides appeared to be glycosylated and were released from the cell surface into the medium. Homogenates of the cells expressing the cloned PrP gene were inoculated into susceptible mice but failed to induce clinical signs of scrapie. Thus, either PrP is not the transmissible agent of scrapie or the expressed PrP requires additional modification to be infectious.
Role of peptide substrate structure in the selective processing of peptide prohormones at basic amino acid pairs by endoproteases.	Three putative processing enzymes, each with defined action in a prohormone system, a 'pro-ocytocin-neurophysin convertase' from bovine neurohypophysis secretory granules, a 'Leu-enkephalin Arg6 generating enzyme' from human CSF and the endoprotease from the 'S-28 convertase' complex of rat brain cortex, were tested for their ability to hydrolyze peptides deriving from pro-ocytocin, pro-enkephalin B and pro-somatostatin, respectively at pairs of basic amino acids. The observations suggest that structural parameters specified by the peptide region around the dibasic moieties govern recognition by the enzyme and define which peptide bond is hydrolyzed.
Analyses of frequency of infection, specific infectivity, and prion protein biosynthesis in scrapie-infected neuroblastoma cell clones.	Scrapie, a spongiform encephalopathy of sheep and goats, is caused by a poorly understood transmissible agent in which no nucleic acid has been conclusively identified. Biochemical characterization of agent derived from animal tissues has not been precise because of the tenacious association of the agent with tissue components. As an approach toward obtaining homogeneous preparations of agent generated in vitro, we cloned scrapie-infected neuroblastoma cells. By frequency analysis, nearly every cell in expanded cultures contained scrapie agent. We also analyzed cell-dose infectivity relationships and developed a standard curve which allowed various cultures to be compared. Since a proteinase K (PK)-resistant form of a protein designated prion protein (PrP) has been found in partially purified preparations of scrapie agent from infected animal spleens and brains, we sought to identify this protein in cell cultures. No PK-resistant PrP was found in infected or uninfected cultures, although the PK-sensitive PrP was readily detected. These results suggested that PK-resistant PrP may not be an essential component of the infectious scrapie agent.
Human placental anticoagulant protein: isolation and characterization.	An anticoagulant protein was purified from the soluble fraction of human placenta by ammonium sulfate precipitation and column chromatography on DEAE-Sepharose, Sephadex G-75, and Mono S (Pharmacia). The yield of the purified protein was approximately 20 mg from one placenta. The purified protein gave a single band by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis with a molecular weight of 36,500. This protein prolonged the clotting time of normal plasma when clotting was induced either by brain thromboplastin or by kaolin in the presence of cephalin and Ca2+. It also prolonged the factor Xa induced clotting time of platelet-rich plasma but did not affect thrombin-induced conversion of fibrinogen to fibrin. The purified placental protein completely inhibited the prothrombin activation by reconstituted prothrombinase, a complex of factor Xa-factor Va-phospholipid-Ca2+. The placenta inhibitor had no effect on prothrombin activation when phospholipid was omitted from the above reaction. Also, it neither inhibited the amidolytic activity of factor Xa, nor did it bind to factor Xa. The placenta inhibitor, however, did bind specifically to phospholipid vesicles (20% phosphatidylserine and 80% phosphatidylcholine) in the presence of calcium ions. These results indicate that the placental anticoagulant protein (PAP) inhibits coagulation by binding to phospholipid vesicles. The amino acid sequences of three cyanogen bromide fragments of PAP aligned with those of two distinct regions of lipocortin I and II with a high degree of homology, showing that PAP is a member of the lipocortin family.
Secretory protein translocation in a neurospora crassa in vitro system. Hydrolysis of a nucleoside triphosphate is required for posttranslational translocation.	An in vitro translocation system has been reconstituted with subcellular fractions from the cell wall-less mutant of Neurospora crassa (fz;sg;os-1). Prepro alpha factor and invertase, secretory proteins from yeast, were faithfully translocated and glycosylated by Neurospora microsomes when presence cotranslationally in the Neurospora translation system. When presence cotranslationally in the Neurospora translation system, microsomes from canine pancreas(cRM) could also translocate and glycosylate the secretory proteins. However, salt-extracted cRM, which is depleted of canine signal recognition particle, could not. Furthermore, prepro alpha factor and a truncated form of invertase, containing the first 262-amino acid residues of the secretory invertase, were glycosylated by Neurospora microsomes posttranslationally, whereas only the truncated form of invertase was glycosylated by cRM when added posttranslationally. The full length invertase was not glycosylated posttranslationally. Posttranslational glycosylation of prepro alpha factor and of the truncated form of invertase is dependent on the hydrolysis of a nucleoside triphosphate. These data suggest that posttranslational glycosylation of prepro alpha factor occurs via a novel type of recognition mechanism which is either absent or ineffective in cRM.
A simple and accurate microplate assay for the determination of factor VIII activity.	Based on the CoatestR Factor VIII kit, a simple and accurate microtiter plate assay has been developed. The method has been simplified through the combination of the bovine factors IXa + X, phospholipid and calcium chloride into one reagent. A further improvement was obtained by generating F Xa to a stable plateau level, thus minimizing influences from variations in time and temperature. The substrate hydrolysis was terminated with 1 M citrate buffer, pH 3.0, which reduced the environmental effects as compared to acetic acid. Overall a fourfold reduction in reagent consumption was achieved. A high correlation with clotting assays was obtained with various types of factor VIII concentrates as well as with plasma samples from blood donors and hemophilia A patients (r greater than 0.85). The accuracy was proven over the whole investigated range of factor VIII activities. Finally, the described microplate assay allows a high turnover of samples in a short period of time, still maintaining a coefficient of variation below 5%.
Iron-chelating substances and inflammation.	The effect of Pseudomonas aeruginosa alkaline protease (AP), elastase (Ela), and the elastase from polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN Ela) on iron acquisition of pyoverdin from human transferrin and lactoferrin at physiologic pH was investigated. Incubation of iron-loaded transferrin with iron-free pyoverdin for 10 h at 40 degrees C in the presence of Ela yielded pyoverdin-iron(III) complex, in contrast to incubations of transferrin with pyoverdin alone, AP, or PMN Ela. Sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis analysis of the incubations revealed fragmentation of transferrin by Ela in peptides smaller than 14,000 daltons, whereas AP and PMN Ela cleaved transferrin in fragments of 49,000 d and 43,000 d, respectively. Incubations of lactoferrin with the proteases and pyoverdin or pyoverdin alone did not result in iron acquisition by pyoverdin; however, lactoferrin was fragmented by Ela and AP.
Chymase and tryptase in dog mastocytoma cells: asynchronous expression as revealed by enzyme cytochemical staining.	Mast cell populations can be distinguished by differences in the content and substrate specificity of their two major cytoplasmic granule proteases, the chymases and the tryptases. To explore the origins of differences in the types of proteases present in mast cells, we used a double cytochemical staining technique to reveal both chymase and tryptase in cells from four lines of dog mast cell tumors containing both enzymes. We expected that if chymase and tryptase were expressed together during cell development the relative staining intensity of chymase compared to tryptase would be constant among different cells of each tumor. Instead, we found substantial variation in the relative intensity of chymase and tryptase staining among cells of a given mastocytoma line, each of which contained cells presumed to be monoclonal in origin but heterogeneous with respect to cell development. The overall staining intensity for chymase or tryptase correlated with the amount of protease activity in extracts of tumor homogenates. Staining specificity was established by use of selective inhibitors and competitive substrates and was tested on various types of dog cells obtained by bronchoalveolar lavage. The results suggest that active chymase and tryptase may be expressed differently during mast cell differentiation and support the possibility of a close developmental relationship between mast cells differing in protease phenotype. Moreover, the success of the staining procedures applied to mastocytoma cells suggests that they may be of general utility in phenotyping of mast cells according to the protease activities present in their granules.
Formation of factor Va by atherosclerotic rabbit aorta mediates factor Xa-catalyzed prothrombin activation.	Vascular cell procoagulant activity may be important in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. In previous studies, we described the ability of the atherogenic metabolite homocysteine to activate endothelial cell Factor V, a key coagulation cofactor for thrombin generation. The present study was designed to investigate Factor V activity and Factor Xa-catalyzed prothrombin activation by control and atherosclerotic aorta from normal and hypercholesterolemic rabbits. Factor Xa generated ninefold more thrombin on atherosclerotic aortic segments than on control segments. Atherosclerotic segments activated 125I-prothrombin with Factor Xa in the presence of the thrombin inhibitor dansyl arginine-4-ethylpiperidine amide and cleaved 125I-Factor V. This suggests that increases in vessel-wall Factor V activity and Factor Xa-catalyzed prothrombin activation result from activation of vessel-wall Factor V. 125I-Factor Va peptides generated by atherosclerotic aorta were very similar in molecular weight to those generated by homocysteine-treated cells. When vascular endothelium was mechanically removed by brushing, atherosclerotic vessels still generated four- to fivefold more thrombin than control vessels. These data and results from immunocytochemical studies suggest that Factor V in atherosclerotic vessels is associated with both endothelium and other cells of the lesion. In contrast, Factor V in control vessels is associated primarily with endothelium. The increases in Factor V activity and thrombin formation in the blood vessel wall of hypercholesterolemic rabbits may contribute to the development of atherosclerosis and its complications.
Surface interaction of human granulocytes and lymphocytes with staphylococcal extracellular serine proteinase.	Enzymatic activity of purified staphylococcal extracellular serine proteinase decreases as a result of incubation with granulocytes as well as with lymphocytes taken from peripheral blood of healthy donors. However, specific proteinase binding was observed only in the case of granulocytes but not in peripheral lymphocytes.
Thrombin binding properties of insoluble modified polystyrene: Part II.	Antithrombin III (AT III) inhibits thrombin via an arginine-serine interaction. Insoluble polystyrene resins grafted with arginyl methyl ester have been synthesized, and their interaction with thrombin tested. One of these resins was selected for its high affinity for thrombin. In this paper we report the characteristics of this thrombin resin interaction. Using this substituted polystyrene resin as a support for affinity chromatography, we have compared the binding of thrombin with that of other proteins (prothrombin, Factor IXa, trypsin and AT III). It was found that 0.7 mg of highly purified human thrombin (2,100 U/mg) was bound to 1 g of resin. This could only be eluted at high ionic strength (1.5 M) and the amidolytic and clotting activities of the eluted thrombin remained unchanged. The binding of thrombin to the resin involves the active site of the enzyme but also other residues since, when DIP thrombin was used, the inactive enzyme could be eluted at lower ionic strength (1.0 M). This resin seems to be specific for thrombin because it does not bind the other serine-proteases (trypsin or Factor IXa), prothrombin (the inactive precursor of thrombin) or AT III. The arginyl residues of the resin are important for the specificity of the interaction with Factor IIa since prolyl residues are totally ineffective. Chromatography performed on such a resin is a very efficient method of purifying thrombin, and may be very useful for the removal of thrombin as a contaminant of plasma protein fractions.
Disulfide linkage of the zeta and eta chains of the T cell receptor. Possible identification of two structural classes of receptors.	The T cell antigen receptor (TCR) is a multisubunit membrane complex. It consists of two disulfide-linked polymorphic chains (either alpha-beta or gamma-delta heterodimers) which are noncovalently linked to five invariant chains. The CD3-gamma and CD3-delta chains bear N-linked carbohydrates and the CD3-epsilon and zeta chains are nongly-cosylated. Further analysis of the zeta chain in murine T cells demonstrates that it can exist as either a homodimer or disulfide linked to an additional protein with an apparent Mr of 22,000. The partial peptide map of this 22-kDa protein is different than zeta and all of the CD3 components. Like zeta, it has no apparent N-linked carbohydrate chains. We have chosen to refer to this subunit as the eta chain of the TCR. Ninety percent of zeta in cloned and nonclonal populations of T cells exist as a homodimer, and the remainder is found linked to the eta chain. The tight regulation of the zeta-zeta to zeta-eta ratio suggests an important functional role for these structural components of the TCR.
Transverse membrane topography of the B875 light-harvesting polypeptides of wild-type Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Purified B875 light-harvesting complex, chromatophores, and spheroplast-derived vesicles from wild-type Rhodobacter sphaeroides were treated with proteinase K or trypsin, and the alpha and beta polypeptides were analyzed by electrophoretic, immunochemical, and protein-sequencing methods. With the purified complex, proteinase K digested both polypeptides and completely eliminated the A875 peak. Trypsin digested the alpha polypeptide and reduced the A875 by 50%. Proteinase K cleaved the beta polypeptide of chromatophores and the alpha polypeptide of spheroplast-derived vesicles. Sequence analyses of polypeptides extracted from proteinase K-treated chromatophores revealed that the beta polypeptide was cleaved between amino acids 4 and 5 from the N terminus. The N terminus of the alpha polypeptide was intact. We concluded that the N terminus of the beta polypeptide is exposed on the cytoplasmic membrane surface, and the difference in the digestion patterns between the spheroplast-derived vesicles and chromatophores suggested that the C terminus of the alpha polypeptide is exposed on the periplasmic surface.
Mechanism of enzymatic catalysis. Quantum chemistry study of models of serine proteases]	The results of molecular orbital calculations for reactions in the active site of serine proteases are outlined. The agreement and disagreement between these results and the theories of enzyme catalysis are discussed.
Distribution of chymoelastases and trypsin-like enzymes in five species of entomopathogenic deuteromycetes.	Nine isolates of the entomopathogenic deuteromycetes Metarhizium anisopliae, Beauveria bassiana, Verticillium lecanii, Nomuraea rileyi, and Aschersonia aleyrodis produced basic (pI greater than 7.0) chymoelastases that possessed extended binding sites, comprising at least four or five subsites, with preference for hydrophobic residues at the primary binding site. Most isolates also produced additional acidic enzymes with similar specificities against ester and amide substrates but which lacked activity against elastin. Both acidic and basic enzymes degraded high protein azure or locust cuticle and, as shown by inhibition studies, possessed essential serine and histidine residues in the active site. In spite of similarities in catalytic properties antibodies generated against a Metarhizium chymoelastase cross-reacted only with enzymes from two (out of four) Metarhizium isolates; enzymes from all other isolates did not cross-react. Two isolates of Metarhizium produced a third class of protease which degraded Bz-AA-AA-Arg-NA substrates (AA, various amino acids) and hide protein azure. Analogous peptidases were produced by other isolates but they were specific for Bz-Phe-Val-Arg-NA and showed less sensitivity to trypsin inhibitors. The possible significance to pathology of the presence of diverse yet similar protease forms in five genera of entomopathogens is discussed.
A multicatalytic high-molecular-weight neutral endopeptidase from human kidney.	A multicatalytic endopeptidase (ME) with three distinct activities, chymotrypsin-like, cucumisin-like, and trypsin-like, occurred in all rat tissues examined with highest activities in kidney, testes, liver, and spleen; they were assayed with benzyloxycarbonyl-Gly-Gly-Leu-p-nitroanilide (Z-Gly-Gly-Leu-pNA), benzyloxycarbonyl-Leu-Leu-Glu-2-naphthylamide (Z-Leu-Leu-Glu-2NA), and benzyloxycarbonyl-Gly-Gly-Arg-2-naphthylamide (Z-Gly-Gly-Arg-2NA), respectively. All three activities were recovered from a single protein band on a polyacrylamide gel after electrophoresis of purified human kidney ME. The native enzyme had a Mr of 650,000, and it consisted of about 5,135 amino acid residues. After denaturation and electrophoresis on sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS)-polyacrylamide gels kidney ME dissociated into several low Mr components ranging from 23,000 to 33,000. Kidney ME had a pH optimum of 7.6-8.1 with Z-Gly-Gly-Leu-pNA, 7.3 with Z-Leu-Leu-Glu-2NA, and 9.8 with Z-Gly-Gly-Arg-2NA. SDS enhanced chymotrypsin- and cucumisin-like activities by two to three times whereas trypsin-like activity was not enhanced. The specificity constant (kappa cat/Km) of human kidney ME for Z-Gly-Gly-Leu-pNA was 6.7 X 10(3) M-1 S-1; Z-Gly-Gly-Leu-2NA was not hydrolyzed. The specificity constant for Z-Leu-Leu-Glu-2NA was similar to, and for Z-Gly-Gly-Arg-2NA was one half of that for Z-Gly-Gly-Leu-pNA. ME cleaves only the Phe5-Ser6 bond of bradykinin (BK); however, all three ME activities were inhibited by BK. Strong inhibition of ME by albumin suggests that ME is involved in cleavage of larger polypeptides. Antipain and leupeptin almost completely inactivated the trypsin-like activity whereas they had no significant effect on the other two activities. ME is not a metal-loenzyme nor is the serine residue essential for its activities; however, thiol groups are involved. Na+ and K+ inhibited all ME activities. Trypsin-like activity was more sensitive to divalent cations than the other two.
The active site of blood coagulation factor Xa. Its distance from the phospholipid surface and its conformational sensitivity to components of the prothrombinase complex.	The location of the active site of membrane-bound factor Xa relative to the phospholipid surface was determined both in the presence and absence of factor Va using fluorescence energy transfer. Factor Xa was reacted with 5-(dimethylamino)-1-naphthalenesulfonyl- glutamylglycylarginyl(DEGR) chloromethyl ketone to yield DEGR-Xa, an analogue of factor Xa with a fluorescent dye attached covalently to the active site. When DEGR-Xa was titrated with phosphatidylcholine/phosphatidylserine vesicles containing octadecylrhodamine, fluorescence energy transfer was observed between the donor dyes in the active sites of the membrane-bound enzymes and the acceptor dyes at the outer surface of the phospholipid bilayer. Based on the dependence of the efficiency of singlet-singlet energy transfer upon the acceptor density and assuming kappa 2 = 2/3, the distance of closest approach between the active site probe and the surface of the phospholipid bilayer averaged 61 A in the absence of factor Va and 69 A in the presence of factor Va. These direct measurements show that the active site of factor Xa is located far above the membrane surface. Also, association of factor Xa with factor Va on the membrane surface to form the prothrombinase complex results in a substantial movement of the active site of the enzyme relative to the membrane surface. The 5-(dimethylamino)-1-naphthalenesulfonyl emission in the complete prothrombinase complex was distinct from that in any other combination of components. It therefore appears that the optimum conformation of the prothrombinase active site is achieved only when factor Va, Ca2+, and a membrane surface interact simultaneously with factor Xa. Thus, in addition to its previously demonstrated ability to stimulate factor Xa binding to membranes, factor Va, upon association with factor Xa on a phospholipid surface, allosterically induces a particular active site conformation in factor Xa and also positions the active site at the correct distance above the membrane for prothrombin activation.
Quantum chemical study of the "catalytic triad" of serine proteases]	Using the semi-empirical MNDO/H method several systems simulating the reaction of tetrahedral intermediate formation in the active site of serine proteases have been studied. The role played by elements of the "catalytic triad" in increasing the reactivity of serine hydroxyl has been discussed. The formation of a strong hydrogen bond between His and Asp was shown to be important in lowering the activation energy in the reaction of Ser with substrate. The change in position of the proton located between Ser and His and between His and Asp was analysed. The influence of substrate distortion on the energy of intermediate formation has been considered.
Evidence for covalent binding between phosphopeptides and terminal deoxynucleotides in highly purified calf thymus DNA.	Highly purified DNA from calf thymus nuclei (N-DNA) was found to cleave after reaction with a chelating agent and subsequent dialysis. During the cleavage phosphopeptides (PPs) were released into the dialysates. At the end of the cleavage, approximately one half of the PP material remained with the DNA. Since it was so strongly bound, it was considered to be retained in the DNA structure by covalent bonding. In order to confirm this, a commercial DNA (S-DNA) was ultrasonicated and digested with pancreatic DNAase, exonuclease III, and S1 nuclease. DEAE Sephacel chromatography of the digested material yielded 5 fractions. The fraction 2, having the highest proportion of proteinaceous material, was digested with Pronase. Amino acid analysis of the hydrolysis mixture yielded phosphoserine (Pser), asp, thr, ser, glu, gly, ala, val, ile, leu, and arg. The mixture was chromatographed again on DEAE Sephacel. From this a single fraction, number 5, was found to contain both deoxynucleotides and the amino acids, Pser, asp, ser, glu, and gly in a molar ratio of greater than 7:3:2:2:5. The mixture obtained by hydrolysis of this fraction with snake venom diesterase was again chromatographed on DEAE Sephacel. This fractionation gave two main peaks, one corresponding to the same 5 amino acids and the other to deoxynucleotide material. From this it was concluded that the fraction used for diesterase digestion consisted of deoxynucleotide-amino acids, with covalent diester bonds between the deoxynucleotide and amino acid portions.
Adenosine 5 triphosphate (ATP) content and acrosin activity in polyzoospermic subjects.	The aim of this paper was to measure the concentration of spermatic ATP and acrosin in a group of patients with polyzoospermia, and to compare these values with those found in a group of normozoospermic men. The general characteristics of the semen, the ATP and the acrosin, were measured in a group of 46 men with polyzoospermia, who consulted in our clinic for sterility. The results were compared with those of 50 normozoospermic men in the control group. Statistically, no significant difference was found between the volume, motility and morphology of the samples in both groups; however, the concentration of spermatic ATP and acrosin decreased significantly in a group of polyzoospermic patients. This could be due to a functional defect of the spermatozoa in this group of patients.
Homo- and heterodimer formation with prothrombin and prothrombin fragment 1 in the presence of calcium ions.	The purpose of the current study is to present further evidence for prothrombin self-association as assessed by chemical crosslinking. When the self-association (evaluated by covalent crosslinking with dithiobis(succinimidylpropionate) of prothrombin or fragment 1 was evaluated at the same molar concentration of protein, similar rates of dimer formation were observed for either protein. When prothrombin and fragment 1 were incubated together with the crosslinking reagent and calcium ions, a heterodimer consisting of prothrombin and fragment 1 was observed in addition to prothrombin dimer and fragment 1 dimer. Similar experiments with prethrombin 1 showed neither significant self-association nor effect on prothrombin self-association. Comparison of the formation of prothrombin fragment 1 heterodimer formation with the effect of fragment 1 on prothrombin activation by factor Xa suggests that the anticoagulant activity of fragment 1 is not solely a result of the formation of a heterodimer between prothrombin and fragment 1.
Structure and proteolysis of the growth hormone receptor on rat hepatocytes.	125I-Labeled human growth hormone is isolated in high molecular weight (Mr) (300,000, 220,000, and 130,000) and low molecular weight complexes on rat hepatocytes after affinity labeling. The time-dependent formation of low molecular weight complexes occurred at the expense of the higher molecular weight species and was inhibited by low temperature or inhibitors of serine proteinases. Exposure to reducing conditions induced loss of Mr 300,000 and 220,000 species and augmented the amount of Mr 130,000 complexes. The molecular weight of growth hormone (22,000) suggests that binding had occurred with species of Mr 280,000, 200,000, and 100,000. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis demonstrated that the 100,000-dalton receptor subunit is contained in both the 280,000- and 200,000-dalton species. Reduction of interchain disulfide bonds in the growth hormone receptor did not alter its elution from gel filtration columns, but intact, high molecular weight receptor constituents were separated from lower molecular weight degradation products. Digestion of affinity-labeled growth hormone-receptor complexes with neuraminidase increased the mobility of receptor constituents on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. These observations show that the growth hormone receptor is degraded by hepatic serine proteinases to low molecular weight degradation products which can be separated from intact receptor by gel filtration. Intact hormone-receptor complexes are aggregates of 100,000-dalton sialoglycoprotein subunits held together by interchain disulfide bonds and by noncovalent forces.
A novel fibrinolytic enzyme (nattokinase) in the vegetable cheese Natto; a typical and popular soybean food in the Japanese diet.	A strong fibrinolytic activity was demonstrated in the vegetable cheese Natto, which is a typical soybean food eaten in Japan. The average activity was calculated at about 40 CU (plasmin units)/g wet weight. This novel fibrinolytic enzyme, named nattokinase, was easily extracted with saline. The mol. wt and pI were about 20,000 and 8.6, respectively. Nattokinase not only digested fibrin but also the plasmin substrate H-D-Val-Leu-Lys-pNA (S-2251), which was more sensitive to the enzyme than other substrates tried. Diisopropyl fluorophosphate and 2,2,2-trichloro-1-hydroxyethyl-o,o-dimethylphosphate strongly inhibited this fibrinolytic enzyme.
Conformational studies of alpha-globin in 1-propanol: propensity of the alcohol to limit the sites of proteolytic cleavage.	Selective condensation of the unprotected fragments of alpha-globin--namely, alpha 1-30 and alpha 31-141--is catalyzed by Staphylococcus aureus V8 protease in the presence of 25% 1-propanol. The propensity of 1-propanol to induce the alpha-helical conformation and to generate a "native-like" topology for the polypeptide chain has been now investigated in an attempt to understand the molecular basis of this enzyme-catalyzed stereospecific condensation. Removal of heme from the alpha-chain decreases the overall alpha-helical conformation of the protein considerably. A significant amount of the alpha-helical conformation is restored in the presence of 25% 1-propanol and the digestion of alpha-globin by V8 protease becomes more selective concomitant with the increase in helicity. V8 protease digestion of alpha-globin at pH 6.0 and 4 degrees C occurs at Glu-30, Asp-47, Glu-27, and Glu-23 in the absence of 1-propanol. In the presence of 25% 1-propanol, the digestion is selective to the peptide bond of Glu-30. This selectivity appears to be a characteristic feature of the native conformation of alpha-chain (polypeptide chain with bound heme). 1-Propanol induces the alpha-helical conformation into RNase S peptide also. However, this increased helical conformation did not protect the RNase S peptide from V8 protease digestion at the Glu-9-Arg-10 peptide bond. RNase S peptide is an alpha-helical conformation in RNase S, an interacting fragment-complementing system of S protein and S peptide. S peptide is resistant to V8 protease hydrolysis in this conformation. Thus, the resistance of a peptide bond in a segment of a protein to protease digestion appears to be a consequence of the secondary structure as well as the tertiary interactions of this segment with the rest of the molecule. The results suggest that the 1-propanol induces alpha-helical conformation into segments of alpha-globin as well as packing of these helices in a native-like topology.
Decreased activities of serine proteinases in spleen of various murine models of systemic lupus erythematodes.	Previous studies indicated a relationship between immune deficiencies and abnormalities in the activities of various hydrolytic enzymes, including proteinases, in tissues. In the present study, we compared such activities in spleen among the three types of murine models of systemic lupus erythematodes (SLE) (i.e., New Zealand black/white mouse, MRL mouse, and BXSB mouse) and their controls. According to the results of multivariate analysis, it was shown that the most important enzymatic changes differentiating the pathologic animals from their controls were decreases in the activities of serine proteinases. Judging from the behavior of these enzymes in various immunological disturbances, it is likely that they play some important roles in pathophysiology of SLE.
Determination of the cleavage specificity of Streptomyces griseus protease B in the presence of guanidinium chloride.	Streptomyces griseus protease B (SGPB), a Pronase enzyme, has been shown to be stable and active in the presence of 6.0 M guanidinium chloride (Siegel, S. et al. (1972) J. Biol. Chem. 247, 4155-4159). In order to determine the cleavage specificity of this unusual enzyme under denaturing conditions, 12 peptides of known amino acid sequence were hydrolyzed by SGPB in the absence and presence of 6.0 M guanidinium chloride. The new N-terminal amino acids produced by the action of SGPB were dansylated and quantitatively identified by reverse phase HPLC. The results indicate that SGPB retained its cleavage specificity for phenylalanyl, tyrosyl, tryptophanyl, and leucyl peptide bonds in the presence of 6.0 M guanidinium chloride. Of these peptide bonds, SGPB exhibited a greater cleavage preference for phenylalanyl and tryptophanyl bonds, which was relatively unaffected by the presence of the denaturant. The SGPB-catalyzed cleavages of the leucyl peptide bonds examined (Leu-Met, Leu-Arg, Leu-Val, Leu-Thr, and Leu-Ile) were substantially decreased under denaturing conditions, while Leu-Gly bond cleavage by SGPB was virtually unaffected by denaturant. The demonstrated predictability of the catalytic preference of this unusual protease for phenylalanyl, tyrosyl, tryptophanyl, and leucyl-glycine peptide bonds under denaturing conditions enhances its utility in the site-specific proteolysis of insoluble or otherwise proteolysis-resistant polypeptide substrates.
Autophosphorylation of the protein kinase dependent on double-stranded RNA.	The double-stranded RNA (dsRNA)-dependent protein kinase (p68 kinase) from interferon-treated human cell is a Mr 68,000 protein induced by interferon. By the use of a specific monoclonal antibody, we have been able to study the two distinct protein kinase activities characteristic of purified p68 kinase. The first activity is functional for endogenous phosphorylation of the enzyme (p68 kinase), whereas the second one is responsible for the phosphorylation of exogenous substrates such as eukaryotic initiation factor 2 and histone. When activated by dsRNA in the presence of Mn2+ and ATP, p68 kinase is autophosphorylated and is then capable of catalyzing phosphorylation of histone in the absence of dsRNA. Whereas binding of 8-azido-[alpha-32P] ATP (8-N3ATP) to p68 kinase is dependent on both dsRNA and Mn2+, phosphorylated p68 kinase binds 8-N3ATP independent of dsRNA. This is consistent with a dsRNA requirement for the autophosphorylation of p68 kinase, but not for the phosphorylation of exogenous substrates. p68 kinase is mainly associated with the ribosomal pellet. It could be recovered efficiently by a buffer containing both high salt and a nonionic detergent. Synthesis of p68 kinase is induced several-fold by interferon in different types of human cells. Partial proteolysis of [35S]methionine and an 8-N3ATP-labeled p68 kinase preparation by Staphylococcus aureus V8 protease indicated the presence of a major Mr 48,000 polypeptide (p48) with a specific ATP-binding site. p48 probably contains the catalytic unit of p68 kinase and is analogous to a similar protein which we have previously described as a distinct protein present in a complexed form with p68 kinase. We now believe that the presence of p48 in previously purified kinase preparations was due to partial degradation of p68 kinase.
Systemic release of a mast cell proteinase following nematode infections in sheep.	An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for sheep mast cell proteinase (SMCP) has been developed. Concentrations of SMCP in homogenates of abomasal tissue from parasite-immune sheep (341 micrograms SMCP/g tissues) were raised when compared to those in normal (non-infected) abomasa (0.145 micrograms SMCP/g tissue). SMCP was not detected in sera from normal animals challenged with Haemonchus contortus but was present (less than 1.0 ng SMCP/ml) in sera from 8/11 immune sheep 2 h after intra-abomasal challenge with 1 x 10(6) exsheathed Haemonchus larvae. In two further experiments, the SMCP response in gastric lymph was monitored after homologous larval challenge in sheep immune to Ostertagia circumcincta and in normal controls. SMCP (less than 1.4 ng SMCP/ml) was detected in lymph from 2/3 and 4/5 immune animals between 1 and 4 days post-challenge with 50,000 larvae, but not from normal animals. SMCP was not detected in lymph from immune animals following challenge with 1000 Ostertagia larvae. The relatively low concentrations of SMCP in blood and lymph reflect the presence of proteinase inhibitor(s) which interfered with the ELISA.
Inhibition of the activation of Hageman factor (factor XII) by peripheral blood cells.	Suspensions of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), monocytes, T or B lymphocytes, platelets or granulocytes, and cell-depleted supernatant fluids of these suspensions inhibited activation of Hageman factor (HF, Factor XII) by ellagic acid, a property not shared by erythrocytes. PBMC also inhibited HF activation by glass or sulfatides. Contaminating platelets may have contributed to inhibition by PBMC. Elaboration of agents inhibiting HF activation required metabolically active cells. The inhibitor(s) in PBMC supernates were not identified with known agents, but had properties of a nonenzymatic protein. PBMC supernates did not contain fibrinogen, nor alter the thrombin, prothrombin, or partial thromboplastin times of normal plasma, amidolysis by activated plasma thromboplastin antecedent (Factor XIa) or activated Stuart factor (Factor Xa) or esterolysis by C1 (C1 esterase); they inhibited plasmin minimally. These experiments suggest that peripheral blood cells may impede intravascular coagulation. Whether this property helps maintain the fluidity of blood is unclear.
Lipopolysaccharide modulates the expression of alpha 1 proteinase inhibitor and other serine proteinase inhibitors in human monocytes and macrophages.	alpha 1 Proteinase inhibitor (PI) is the principle inhibitor of neutrophil elastase, an enzyme that degrades many components of the extracellular matrix. Expression and regulation of alpha 1 PI, therefore, affects the delicate balance of elastase and antielastase, which is critical to turnover of connective tissue during homeostasis, tissue injury, and repair. In this study we show that expression of alpha 1 PI in human monocytes and macrophages is regulated during activation by LPS. LPS mediates a concentration- and time-dependent increase in the rate of synthesis of alpha 1 PI in mononuclear phagocytes. There is a 4.5-8.7-fold increase in functionally active inhibitor delivered to the cell culture fluid of monocytes. The effect of LPS is specific in that it is neutralized by an mAb to the lipid A moiety. The increase in expression of alpha 1 PI mediated by LPS occurs in the context of other specific changes in the expression of serine proteinase inhibitor genes in mononuclear phagocytes. There is an increase in the rate of synthesis of C1 inhibitor and a decrease in synthesis of alpha 2 macroglobulin. Regulation of alpha 1 PI by LPS is distinctive in that it is largely determined by a change in the efficiency of translation of alpha 1 PI mRNA. LPS has no effect on the rate of posttranslational processing and/or secretion of alpha 1 PI and, therein, causes greater intracellular accumulation of alpha 1 PI in mononuclear phagocytes from individuals with homozygous PiZZ alpha 1 PI deficiency.
Biochemical characterization of the retinoid isomerase system of the eye.	We have previously shown that membranes from the retinal pigment epithelium can transform added all-trans-retinol into a mixture of 11-cis-retinoids, demonstrating the "missing reaction" in the visual cycle for the first time (Bernstein, P. S., Law, W. C., and Rando, R. R. (1987) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 84, 1849-1853). In this article, this isomerase activity is further characterized. Double-label experiments with [15-3H]- and [15-14C]all-trans-retinol as the substrate show that the tritium label is retained in the 11-cis-retinol and 11-cis-retinyl palmitate products. This requires that isomerization occur at the alcohol level of oxidation. All-trans-retinyl esters, such as the palmitate, acetate, butyrate, and hexanoate esters, are not directly transformed into their 11-cis counterparts by the membranes. The data are consistent with the presence of an all-trans-retinol isomerase enzyme system or enzyme complex, which produces 11-cis-retinol. Other isomeric retinols were tested for substrate activity. Neither 9-cis-retinol(al) nor 13-cis-retinol were processed by the isomerase. Since the membranes containing the isomerase possess other retinol metabolizing activities, such as retinyl ester synthetase and dehydrogenase activities, further purification was attempted. Appreciable quantities of all detergents tested led to the disappearance of isomerase activity, and high salt or EDTA did not dissociate isomerase activity from the membranes. However, extensive sonication of the membranes did produce a 100,000 x g supernatant fraction of light membranes depleted of other all-trans-retinol processing activities. The isomerase activity in these membranes was saturable with all-trans-retinol, as required for a biologically significant process, and showed a Vmax of 5 pmol/h/mg of protein, a KM of 0.8 microM, and a pH optimum of 8. The isomerase was destroyed by proteinase K, by phospholipase C, by heating, or by ethanol at concentrations greater than 1%. The addition of high energy compounds, such as MgATP, MgGTP, or palmitoyl-CoA, did not appear to stimulate isomerase activity in the 100,000 x g supernatant.
Proteolytic activity of Aeromonas caviae.	Aeromonas strains produce a variety of virulence factors including proteases. Studies on the kinetics of growth of Aeromonas caviae NRRL B-966 and its proteases suggest that the proteolytic activities are produced throughout the growth phase, with peak level occurring at stationary phase. A. caviae synthesize both intracellular and extracellular proteases with the latter account for major portion of the total activity. Optimum pH for the A. caviae proteolytic activity is at 7.0. A. caviae produces a thermoresistant protease, whose activity is dependent on Mg++ and Ca++ ions. Inhibition of proteolytic activity by phenyl methyl sulfonyl fluoride suggest the presence of a serine protease in A. caviae. Nitrogenous compounds enhance the proteolytic activity while carbohydrates tested in this study inhibit the activity.
Assembly of nucleosomal DNA in a cell-free extract from wild-type and top1- strains of Ustilago maydis.	An in vitro nucleosome assembly system has been established from cell-free extracts of the fungus Ustilago maydis. The extract catalyzed DNA supercoiling in the absence of exogenously added co-factors such as ATP and MgCl2 and was inhibited by moderate concentrations (200 mM) of KCl or NaCl. DNA supercoiling occurs via the formation of nucleosomes. Similar extracts, displaying the same activity, were prepared from Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Candida albicans, suggesting that the extract preparation protocol may be useful for many lower eukaryotic systems. An extract prepared from a strain of U. maydis lacking topoisomerase I failed to catalyze nucleosome assembly, clearly implicating this enzyme in this process. Addition of purified topoisomerase I, and, to a lesser extent, topoisomerase II, to the top1- extract regenerated the supercoiling activity. Our results provide a method for preparing assembly extracts from organisms, that are particularly amenable to genetic manipulation.
Structural basis for serpin inhibitor activity.	The mechanism of formation and the structures of serpin-inhibitor complexes are not completely understood, despite detailed knowledge of the structures of a number of cleaved and uncleaved inhibitor, noninhibitor, and latent serpins. It has been proposed from comparison of inhibitor and noninhibitor serpins in the cleaved and uncleaved forms that insertion of strand s4A into preexisting beta-sheet A is a requirement for serpin inhibitor activity. We have investigated the role of this strand in formation of serpin-proteinase complexes and in serpin inhibitor activity through homology modeling of wild type inhibitor, mutant substrate, and latent serpins, and of putative serpin-proteinase complexes. These models explain the high stability of the complexes and provide an understanding of substrate behavior in serpins with point mutations in s4A and of latency in plasminogen activator inhibitor I.
Prion protein (PrP) synthetic peptides induce cellular PrP to acquire properties of the scrapie isoform.	Conversion of the cellular isoform of prion protein (PrPC) into the scrapie isoform (PrPSc) involves an increase in the beta-sheet content, diminished solubility, and resistance to proteolytic digestion. Transgenetic studies argue that PrPC and PrPSc form a complex during PrPSc formation; thus, synthetic PrP peptides, which mimic the conformational pluralism of PrP, were mixed with PrPC to determine whether its properties were altered. Peptides encompassing two alpha-helical domains of PrP when mixed with PrPC produced a complex that displayed many properties of PrPSc. The PrPC-peptide complex formed fibrous aggregates and up to 65% of complexed PrPC sedimented at 100,000 x g for 1 h, whereas PrPC alone did not. These complexes were resistant to proteolytic digestion and displayed a high beta-sheet content. Unexpectedly, the peptide in a beta-sheet conformation did not form the complex, whereas the random coil did. Addition of 2% Sarkosyl disrupted the complex and rendered PrPC sensitive to protease digestion. While the pathogenic A117V mutation increased the efficacy of complex formation, anti-PrP monoclonal antibody prevented interaction between PrPC and peptides. Our findings in concert with transgenetic investigations argue that PrPC interacts with PrPSc through a domain that contains the first two putative alpha-helices. Whether PrPC-peptide complexes possess prion infectivity as determined by bioassays remains to be established.
Localization of a vitronectin binding region of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1.	The PAI-1 binding site for VN was studied using two independent methods. PAI-1 was cleaved by Staph V8 protease, producing 8 fragments, only 2 of which bound to [125I]-VN. These fragments were predicted to overlap between residues 91-130. Since PAI-2 has structural homology to PAI-1, but does not bind to vitronectin, chimeras of PAI-1 and PAI-2 were constructed. Four chimeras, containing PAI-1 residues 1-70, 1-105, 1-114, and 1-167 were constructed and expressed in vitro. PAI-1, PAI-2, and all of the chimeras retained inhibitory activity for t-PA, but only the chimera containing PAI-1 residues 1-167 formed a complex with VN. Together, these results predict that the VN binding site of PAI-1 is between residues 115-130.
The Gly-54-->Asp allelic form of human mannose-binding protein (MBP) fails to bind MBP-associated serine protease.	The human mannose-binding protein (MBP) is a pattern recognition molecule that appears to play a role in initial host defence. MBP activates the complement cascade and it may act as an opsonin both in the absence and in the presence of complement. A number of distinct MBP allelic forms exist in different population groups. An allele that occurs in 5-7% of Caucasians was identified by an inability to activate the complement system. A homozygous mutation at base pair 230 of the MBP gene results in a Gly-to-Asp substitution at the fifth collagen repeat. It appears that the resultant protein, MBPD, is able to form high-order multimers that bind bacteria but do not support complement activation. Recently a novel serine protease, the MBP-associated serine protease (MASP), has been described. MBP-MASP complexes circulate in serum and result in the direct activation of a novel complement pathway (lectin pathway) in the absence of the first complement components. In this study we demonstrate that MASP and its proenzyme proMASP are unable to bind to recombinant (r)MBPD. This lack of a MASP-rMBPD association corresponds to a failure of the Gly-54-->Asp form of MBP to activate complement. Our results provide a biochemical basis for the functional deficit in the Gly-54-->Asp allelic form of MBP and suggest that the proMASP/MASP binding site maps to the fifth collagen repeat of MBP.
Amino acid sequencing, molecular cloning and modelling of the chick liver class-theta glutathione S-transferase CL1.	Glutathione S-transferase CL1-2 heterodimers purified from 1-day-old chick livers were digested with Achromobacter proteinase I. The resulting fragments were separated for amino acid sequence analysis. Oligonucleotide probes were constructed based on sequence similarity to class-Theta glutathione S-transferases for PCR using a chicken liver cDNA library as template. A full-length clone (1725 bp) encoding a polypeptide comprising 261 amino acids was isolated. Including conservative substitutions, this protein has 70-73% sequence similarity with other mammalian class-Theta glutathione S-transferases. Based on known X-ray crystal structures of class-Alpha, -Mu and -Pi glutathione S-transferases, a model is constructed for the N-terminal 232 residues of CL1.
Accumulation of proteinase K-resistant prion protein (PrP) is restricted by the expression level of normal PrP in mice inoculated with a mouse-adapted strain of the Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease agent.	Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is a transmissible neurodegenerative disease of humans caused by an unidentified infectious agent, the prion. To determine whether there was an involvement of the host-encoded prion protein (PrPc) in CJD development and prion propagation, mice heterozygous (PrP+/-) or homozygous (PrP-/-) for a disrupted PrP gene were established and inoculated with the mouse-adapted CJD agent. In keeping with findings of previous studies using other lines of PrP-less mice inoculated with scrapie agents, no PrP-/- mice showed any sign of the disease for 460 days after inoculation, while all of the PrP+/- and control PrP+/+ mice developed CJD-like symptoms and died. The incubation period for PrP+/- mice, 259 +/- 27 days, was much longer than that for PrP+/+ mice, 138 +/- 12 days. Propagation of the prion was barely detectable in the brains of PrP-/- mice and was estimated to be at a level at least 4 orders of magnitude lower than that in PrP+/+ mice. These findings indicate that PrPc is necessary for both the development of the disease and propagation of the prion in the inoculated mice. The proteinase-resistant PrP (PrPres) was undetectable in the brain tissues of the inoculated PrP-/- mice, while it accumulated in the affected brains of PrP+/+ and PrP+/- mice. Interestingly, the maximum level of PrPres in the brains of PrP+/- mice was about half of the level in the similarly affected brains of PrP+/+ mice, indicating that PrPres accumulation is restricted by the level of PrPc.
Association of reovirus outer capsid proteins sigma 3 and mu 1 causes a conformational change that renders sigma 3 protease sensitive.	Association of the reovirus proteins sigma 3 and mu 1 influences viral entry, initiation of outer capsid assembly, and modulation of the effect of sigma 3 on cellular translation. In this study, we have addressed whether structural changes occur in sigma 3 as a result of its interaction with mu 1. Using differences in protease sensitivity to detect conformationally distinct forms of sigma 3, we showed that association of sigma 3 with mu 1 caused a conformational change in sigma 3 that converted it from a protease-resistant to a protease-sensitive structure and occurred posttranslationally. The effect of mu 1 on the structure of sigma 3 was stoichiometric. Our results are consistent with a model in which sigma 3's association with mu 1 shifts its function from translational control to assembly of an outer capsid in which sigma 3 is folded into the protease-sensitive conformation that is required for its cleavage during the next round of infection.
High-alkaline protease from Bacillus PB92 entrapped in calcium alginate gel. Physicochemical and microscopic studies.	High-alkaline protease (HAP) has been entrapped in Manugel DMB (an alginate gel) and assayed with two sizes and types of substrates: neutral protein casein and synthetic chromogenic tripeptide substrate, Z-Gly-Pro-Cit-PNA. Increasing the concentration of calcium chloride used for capsule formation decreased the measured enzyme activity with both substrates. Capsules were found to be stable in water for long periods of time, but they dissolved in both phosphate and carbonate-bicarbonate buffers. The pH vs activity profiles of encapsulated enzyme showed pH optima between 10 and 11 with both substrates. The calcium alginate matrix surrounding the enzyme was quite effective in stabilizing the enzyme at 20-25 degrees C and even more so at 4 degrees C. Enzyme stability at 50 degrees C was quite impressive, some enzyme activity being evident even after remaining for 1 wk at this temperature in water. Increasing concentrations of sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) were also found to inhibit the protease progressively, whereas a polyhexamethylene biguanidium chloride (PHMBH+Cl-) and SDS:PHMBH+Cl- combination showed the opposite effect. Optical microscopy, especially polarized light microscopy, provided a sensitive physical means of ascertaining some of the structural properties (sphericity, disorganization or organization, distinct layer enveloping the capsules, intensity of the maltese cross) of the capsules with and without enzyme before and after different chemical treatments and the presence or absence of the substrate.
Effect of six-hour exposure to nitrogen dioxide on early-phase nasal response to allergen challenge in patients with a history of seasonal allergic rhinitis.	Recent studies have suggested that exposure to air pollutants may enhance the airway responsiveness of susceptible individuals to inhaled allergen.
Structure, function, and regulation of the enzyme activity of prostate-specific antigen.	Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) and human glandular kallikrein 1 (hGK-1) are structurally similar products of the human glandular kallikrein gene locus on chromosome 19 that become selectively expressed by human prostate tissue. PSA is one of the most abundant prostate-derived proteins in the seminal fluid. The mature form of PSA, a single-chain glycoprotein of 237 amino acids, is a serine protease manifesting restricted chymotrypsin-like activity. PSA is mainly responsible for gel dissolution in freshly ejaculated semen by proteolysis of the major gel-forming proteins semenogelin I and II and fibronectin. PSA complexed to alpha 1-antichymotrypsin (ACT) is the predominant molecular form of serum PSA, although complex formation is slow between the purified proteins in vitro. PSA also forms stable complexes with alpha 2-macroglobulin (alpha 2M) in vitro, but as this results in encapsulation of PSA and complete loss of the PSA epitopes, the in vivo significance of this complex formation is presently unclear. A free, noncomplexed form of PSA constitutes a minor fraction of the serum PSA, although serum ACT occurs at large molar excess.
A sensitive detection method for peptide using 4-fluoro-7-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole and its application to measure prolyl endopeptidase activity.	A measuring method sensitive to prolyl endopeptidase (EC 3.4.21.26, PEP) activity using native peptides (Arg-vasopressin or substance P) as substrates was established. The investigation of three different derivatization reagents, which had been developed for an amino acid analysis, demonstrated that 4-fluoro-7-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazole (NBDF) was the most suitable for the detection of Arg-Gly-NH2, which was released from Arg-vasopressin by PEP. Arg-Gly-NH2 was reacted with NBDF at 65 degrees C for 5 min at pH 7.6 and the reaction mixture was analysed by HPLC on a reverse-phase column by monitoring the fluorescence intensity. The detection limit was 1 picomol per injection and the linear standard calibration curve could be constructed in the range of 1 to 100 picomol per injection with a 3.0% relative standard deviation. This sensitive detection method for peptide was applied to the measurement of PEP activity using Arg-vasopressin as a substrate and 1 x 10(-3) unit of PEP activity was detectable. This method was also applicable to the measurement of PEP activity using substance P as a substrate by detecting the derivative of its fragment peptide (Arg-Pro-Lys-Pro).
Catalysis sensitive conformational changes in soybean lipoxygenase revealed by limited proteolysis and monoclonal antibody experiments.	Soybean lipoxygenases catalyze lipid hydroperoxidation of polyunsaturated fatty acids. Putative ligand mediated conformational changes in soybean lipoxygenase 3 (L3) were studied by a combination of limited proteolysis and a series of monoclonal antibodies that recognize discontinuous epitopes and alter catalysis (inhibition and activation). Trypsin cleaved L3 (97 kDa) into C-terminal 60 kDa and N-terminal 37 kDa fragments. The 37 kDa fragment was obtained from a 38 kDa fragment formed initially. Using protein footprinting, the epitopes of the antibodies were mapped to the 37 kDa fragment. Proteolysis in the presence of a substrate analog inhibitor, oleic acid, generated the 60 and the 38 kDa fragments only. No further proteolysis of the 38 kDa fragment was seen even after prolonged incubation. This was not a detergent effect since the altered proteolysis was not obtained in the presence of SDS or Tween 20. Binding of a monoclonal antibody to L3 in the presence of oleic acid was substantially reduced providing additional evidence for a conformational change induced by the oleic acid-lipoxygenase interaction. These observations are interpreted using the recently solved three-dimensional structure of L3. It is apparent that while the protein is composed of a small N-terminal beta-barrel domain and a large principally alpha-helical C-terminal domain, proteolysis does not take place at a linking region between the two domains. The proteolysis results makes it clear that the smaller domain is connected across the entire length of the larger domain to a narrow, tongue-like projection that extends into the vicinity of the entrance to the proposed substrate binding channel.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A trimeric subdomain of the simian immunodeficiency virus envelope glycoprotein.	Previous attempts to define the oligomeric state of the HIV and SIV envelope glycoproteins have yielded conflicting results. We have produced in Escherichia coli a recombinant model for the ectodomain of the SIV envelope protein gp41 and have identified a small, trimeric subdomain by proteolytic digestion of this gp41 fragment. The subdomain assembles from two peptide fragments, spanning residues 28-80 (N28-80) and residues 107-149 (C107-149) of SIV gp41. Each of these peptides contains a 4,3-hydrophobic repeat, the hallmark of coiled-coil sequences. Upon mixing, the peptides form a highly helical, trimeric complex [3(N+C)] that resists proteolysis and has a melting temperature (Tm) above 90 degrees C in physiological buffer. The N- and C-terminal fragments are antiparallel to each other in the complex, as judged by the observation that digestion of a variant recombinant protein truncated at the amino terminus yields a C-terminal fragment shortened at its carboxy terminus. The N28-80 peptide contains more positions within the heptad repeat than C107-149 that are predominantly hydrophobic, suggesting that N28-80 is buried in the interior of the complex. We propose that the complex consists of a parallel, trimeric coiled-coil of the N-terminal peptide, encircled by three C-terminal peptide helices arranged in an antiparallel fashion, and that this complex forms a core within the gp41 extracellular domain.
Influence of Helicobacter pylori on tryptase and cathepsin D in peptic ulcer.	We here ascertain whether tryptase (a serine endoprotease released by mast cells) and cathepsin D (CD, a lysosomal hydrolase that seems able to derange the extracellular matrix) play a part in peptic ulcer disease and whether they are linked to Helicobacter pylori (Hp) infection. We studied 13 controls, 25 patients with gastric ulcer, 47 with duodenal ulcer, and 11 with duodenitis. Tryptase and CD were measured in mucosal biopsies (body and antrum of the stomach and duodenum) using IRMA methods. Hp infection was histologically evaluated (Giemsa). Tryptase and CD levels were higher (25%) in patients with active peptic ulcer, whether gastric or duodenal. In Hp-positive patients the CD mucosal content was higher while tryptase mucosal levels were lower than in Hp-negative patients. Tryptase was correlated with gastrin content. CD seems to be mainly related to the phlogistic reaction of the mucosa to Hp infection; tryptase may reflect an indirect link between Hp infection, gastrin release, and the function of mast cells.
Isolation of an active and heat-stable monomeric form of Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase from the periplasmic space of Escherichia coli.	We have purified the Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase (CuZnSOD) from the periplasmic space of an Escherichia coli strain unable to synthesize MnSOD and FeSOD. Gel filtration chromatography evidenced that under all the experimental conditions tested the enzyme was monomeric. The catalytic activity of this CuZnSOD was comparable to that of other well characterized dimeric eukaryotic isoenzymes, indicating that a dimeric structure is not essential to ensure enzymatic efficiency. Furthermore the purified enzyme proved to be highly heat-stable and, uniquely among CuZnSODs, protease-sensitive. The latter property may explain the previously described lability of this protein in cell extracts.
Analysis of a conformation-independent epitope and a conformational epitope in a protein: a study on cobrotoxin from Taiwan cobra venom.	The antibodies against cobrotoxin were separated into two antibody preparations by successive affinity chromatographies on reduced and S-carboxymethylated (RCM)-cobrotoxin-Sepharose, and cobrotoxin-Sepharose columns. The antibodies (abbreviated as Abcf-i) that bound with the RCM-cobrotoxin-Sepharose were verified to specifically recognize the continuous epitopes of cobrotoxin, which were insensitive to conformational changes. Whilst the antibodies (abbreviated as Abcf-d) that did not bind with the RCM-cobrotoxin-Sepharose column recognized the conformational epitopes in cobrotoxin. The two antibody preparations were employed to screen the antigenic peptides derived from the proteolytic hydrolysate of cobrotoxin and RCM-cobrotoxin. Five antigenic peptides (AP-4, AP-5, AP-10, AP-11, and AP-12) were obtained from the acid protease A-digested hydrolysate of cobrotoxin, and two antigenic peptides (V8-2 and V8-4) were found in the hydrolysate of RCM-cobrotoxin after hydrolysis with Saccharomyces aureus V8 protease. The segments at positions 1-21 and 22-38 encompassed the peptide fractions, AP-4, AP-5, V8-2, and V8-4, that reacted with Abcf-i, indicating that the two segments bore the continuous epitopes of cobrotoxin. Alternatively, AP-10, AP-11, and AP-12 reacted with both Abcf-i and Abcf-d. The structures of the three peptides had a common segment at positions 43-62, suggesting that this region comprised the conformation-independent epitopes as well as conformational epitopes in cobrotoxin. These results reflected that the conformation-independent and conformational epitopes in a protein can be separately identified.
Protease activity of outer membrane protein OmpT in clinical E.coli isolates--studies using translation initiation factor IF2 as target protein.	During purification of the translation initiation factor IF2 from ompT+ strains of Escherichia coli the IF2 is partially degraded in the presence of membrane debris during the first steps of purification. This is a result of proteolytic cleavage by outer membrane protease OmpT [1]. Here we have investigated the activity of OmpT in 51 clinical E. coli isolates of human origin, by a time dependent OmpT activity assay using IF2 as target protein. The activity of OmpT in the outer cell membrane is highly variable among wild type E.coli strains, ranging from no detectable activity in 65% of the strains to a very high activity in 5 strains (10%). The OmpT activity is closely related to the assay temperature and to the growth temperature of the cells, and can be reduced or even eliminated by lowering the temperature of growth. The results open the possibility of using non-denaturing gel electrophoresis of crude cell lysates as a screening method in population genetic studies of initiation factor IF2 and other cytoplasmic proteins which are cleaved by OmpT.
Structural and functional characterization of estrogen sulfotransferase isoforms: distinct catalytic and high affinity binding activities.	Estrogen sulfotransferase (EST) purified from the guinea pig (gp) adrenal gland consists of multiple charge isoforms with isoelectric points (pls) ranging from 6.5 to 5.2. Four individual isoforms were isolated for use in antibody production, as well as for tryptic fragmentation analysis. The multiple charge isoforms manifested a high degree of relatedness as evidence by complete immunocross-reactivity. This relatedness was further demonstrated by peptide mapping analysis, which revealed essentially identical elution profiles for three of the isoforms, whereas the fourth most acidic isoform, although similar to the other three isoforms, demonstrated some differences. To further explore the nature of the charge isoforms, native gpEST and EST expressed by CHO-K1 cells transfected with the gpEST cDNA were subjected to additional biochemical characterization. An interesting finding was that, in addition to EST activity, gpEST bound estradiol with a high affinity [dissociation constant (Kd) 10 nM]; furthermore, the binding activity was absolutely dependent on the cofactor, adenosine-3',5'-diphosphate (3',5'-ADP). An unexpected and novel finding was that only the most basic pl 6.5 isoform was catalytically active, while estradiol-binding activity was associated with a more acidic isoform (pl 5.5-5.2); however, it has not as yet been possible to definitively assign the binding activity to a specific isoform.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Enhanced activity against syngeneic murine tumors by intrasplenic injection of recombinant interleukin-2 (IL-2) and interleukin-1 (IL-1).	The antitumor activity of Interleukin-1 (IL-1), was assessed against the murine adenocarcinoma colon 26 tumor model in combination with Interleukin-2 (IL-2). Colon 26 tumor cells were inoculated on the back of syngeneic BALB/c mice. Fourteen days after inoculation, when the tumor nodule reached approximately 10 mm in diameter, tumor nodules were resected and Hank's solution, IL-2, IL-1, or IL-2 plus IL-1 were injected directly into the mouse spleen. One week after treatment, potent natural killer (NK) and enhanced lymphokine activated killer (LAK) cell activities were seen in the splenocytes treated by the combination of IL-2 plus IL-1. Furthermore the combination treatment by IL-2 plus IL-1 resulted in a significantly prolonged survival. Phenotypic analysis showed an increased number of percent positive cells expressing asialo GM 1 and IL-2 receptor after treatment with IL-2 plus IL-1. A possible role of IL-1 in augmentation of IL-2 dependent antitumor activity in vivo is discussed.
High resolution 2-D peptide mapping with subsequent analysis of peptides by microsequencing or lectin binding directly from PVDF membrane blots.	Peptide mapping is a technique that is frequently used to characterize proteins. Typically, the method involves the cleavage of proteins in solution or in a gel with the subsequent separation of the peptide fragments on a 1-D SDS PAGE gel. Electrophoretic peptide maps are often used to compare homologous proteins from related organisms to derive evolutionary relationships. Other applications of peptide mapping include immunoblotting studies of selected proteins. Two-dimensional peptide mapping, a less common technique, has traditionally involved a combination of thin layer or paper chromatography and electrophoresis. Amino acid sequencing of peptides that were separated using this method and then subsequently blotted to PVDF membrane was reported recently. However, the resolution achieved with these methods is far below that which can be achieved with conventional 2-D electrophoresis of proteins in polyacrylamide gels. This report describes an electrophoretic system for the high resolution 2-D separation of peptides in gels with subsequent blotting to a novel cationic PVDF membrane, Immobilon-CD, and microsequencing directly from the 2-D blot. In addition, the high resolution peptide maps can be further analyzed by techniques such as lectin probing to determine post-translational modifications.
Histochemistry of proteinases in the cercariae of Diplostomum pseudospathaceum (Trematoda, Diplostomatidae).	Two distinct endopeptidases were detected histochemically in the cercariae of Diplostomum pseudospathaceum: a serine proteinase occupying the ceca and a cysteine proteinase occupying the penetration glands. The former was relatively resistant to formaldehyde, required either Ca2+ or Mg2+ for its stability, and was sensitive to organic fluorophosphate inhibitors but insensitive to thiol-blocking agents. The latter enzyme required both reducing and divalent cation-complexing agents for its full activity and was sensitive to formaldehyde, thiol-blocking agents, and diazonium salts. Both enzymes hydrolyzed a number of N-blocked L-aminoacyl-, and N-blocked L-peptidyl-naphthylamides bearing L-arginine at the P1 subsite. The pH optima for hydrolysis of the substrates were 8.0 for the serine proteinase and 7.6 for the cysteine proteinase.
Application of a monoclonal antibody to estimate rabbit fibrinopeptide A released by habutobin.	We reported previously that habutobin, one of the type A thrombin-like enzymes, releases fibrinopeptide A alone from rabbit fibrinogen. To evaluate the effective action of habutobin in experiments using rabbit for the treatment of thrombosis, we attempted to develop an immunological method for measuring the fibrinopeptide A level in the circulating blood of rabbit. The purified rabbit fibrinopeptide A was coupled to keyhole limpet hemocyanin and BALB/c mice were immunized with the resultant fibrinopeptide A-hemocyanin conjugate. The spleen cells of an immunized mouse were fused with myeloma cells (P3-X63-Ag8-U1). As a result, one hybridoma (a-F-7) was selected, which secreted an antibody against rabbit fibrinopeptide A. Using this monoclonal antibody, we developed a competitive enzyme-linked immunoassay for estimating rabbit fibrinopeptide A. It was able to measure rabbit fibrinopeptide A contained in bentonite defibrinated plasma. This competitive enzyme-linked immunoassay should be useful for determining the fibrinopeptide A level in the circulating blood of rabbits, using plasma defibrinated by bentonite.
Comparison of properties of membrane bound versus soluble forms of human leukocytic elastase and cathepsin G.	Stimulation of human neutrophils with micromolar concentrations of N-formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenyl-alanine (fMLP) or 4 beta-phorbol-12 beta-myristate-13 alpha-acetate (PMA), results in their degranulation and/or lysis with a concomitant release of Human Leucocyte Elastase (HLE; EC 3.4.21.37), Cathepsin G (cat G; EC 3.4.21.20) and Myeloperoxidase (MPO; EC 1.11.1.7) into the surrounding medium, some of which re-bind in an active form to neutrophil plasma membranes or membrane fragments. Histones, when present in the medium, prevent this association indicating that it is largely charge dependent. Bound proteinases have an increased resistance to inhibition by protein proteinase inhibitors, while bound MPO retains its ability to oxidatively inactivate alpha-1-proteinase inhibitor (alpha-1-PI). The attachment of oxidases and proteinases to plasma membrane or its fragments may allow them to remain active in an environment replete with proteinase inhibitors and, therefore, may be responsible for neutrophil or neutrophil-debris mediated tissue damage.
Affinity binding of hamster oviductin to spermatozoa and its influence on in vitro fertilization.	The aim of this study was to determine the influence of hamster oviductal glycoprotein (oviductin) on in vitro gamete interaction. Oviductin was purified from the oviducts using lithium 3,5-diiodosalicylate, followed by phenol extraction. Immunocytochemistry using indirect fluorescence staining revealed that oviductin binds to the sperm anterior acrosomal region. The specific binding of oviductin resulted in inhibition of in vitro fertilization in studies using cumulus-free oocytes. The inhibitory effect was dependent on the concentration of oviductin and occurred in both ovarian and oviductal oocytes but not zona-free oocytes, indicating that sperm-zona interaction was interferred by oviduction. However, the inhibitory effect of oviductin in sperm-zona interaction was reduced when cumulus-enclosed oocytes from ovaries and oviducts were used, indicating that the egg investment including cumulus oophorus has some effect on oviductin-sperm complex and maintaining the fertilizing ability.
Heparin and its derivatives modulate serine proteinases (SERPS) serine proteinase inhibitors (SERPINS) balance. Physiopathological relevance.	Heparin and heparan sulfate, exhibiting wide biological interactions, are constituted of block structures. A defined pentasaccharide motif was found responsible for the enhancement of the rate of inactivation of factor Xa by antithrombin III. Heparin also interacts with other serine proteinase inhibitors as protease nexin I, and thus possibly modulates extracellular matrix proteolysis by serine proteinases in the pericellular environment. Human neutrophil elastase (HNE) activity is inhibited by heparin with Ki = 75 pM. This strong interaction is electrostatic, involving HNE/arginine residues disposed in a "cluster shoe" arrangement on the surface of the molecule and mainly OSO3- groups of heparin. HNE-heparin interactions also interfere with HNE associations with its natural inhibitors: it decreases the rate of association of HNE with alpha 1 proteinase inhibitor (alpha 1 P(i)) by 3 orders of magnitude, while increasing kass between HNE and mucus bronchial inhibitor (MBI) by > 10 fold. In vivo experiments demonstrated that heparin fragments lacking anticoagulant activity were able to nearly completely abolish emphysematous lesions induced in mice by a single intratracheal administration of 200 micrograms HNE. Long chain unsaturated fatty acids peptide conjugates were described as competitive HNE inhibitors (Hornebeck W. et al. 1985). We synthesized N-oleoyl heparin derivative (3 oleoyl groups/one molecule of heparin); such a lipophilic glycosaminoglycan (LipoGAG), although acting as an elastin protecting agent, possessed lower HNE inhibitory capacity as compared with heparin. In contrast, however, it was able to inhibit other serine proteinases such as urokinase, plasmin, porcine pancreatic apha-chymotrypsin and elastase. Such Lipo GAG's can be therefore useful to control matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) during tissue remodeling or tumor invasion.
Extravascular proteolysis and the nervous system: serine protease/serpin balance.	Widely recognized as components of the blood coagulation cascade, serine proteases and their natural inhibitors, specific serpins known as the protease nexins, also regulate the maintenance of normal function in the nervous system. Increasingly, evidence has accumulated as to regulation of their synthesis and functional roles within both the CNS and peripheral nervous system. Our review focuses on the localization and activity of TH and PN I in the nervous system, as well as on the impact of the protease/inhibitor balance for the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders such as AD.
Is CD4 sufficient for HIV entry? Cell surface molecules involved in HIV infection.	HIV-1, HIV-2 and SIV each bind to CD4 as the first step in virus entry. However, alternative receptors may also be used. HIV-1 binds to glycolipids with terminal galactosylceramide residues on neural cells; opsonized virus binds to Fc receptors; HIV-2 can infect certain CD4-negative cells. Further receptors may also play a role in CD4-mediated infection, including cell adhesion molecules and possibly cell surface proteinases. After binding to CD4, immunodeficiency viruses require secondary molecules to effect fusion between the virus envelope and the cell membrane; these accessory requirements differ between HIV-1, HIV-2 and SIV.
Proline-specific peptidases of Lactobacillus casei subspecies.	This paper describes the specific activities for proline iminopeptidases, x-prolyl dipeptidyl peptidase and post proline endopeptidase, from each of two subspecies of Lactobacillus casei grown in MRS broth and whey media at 37 degrees C, pH 6.0. The histochemical PAGE of soluble extracts from one subspecies (Lactobacillus casei ssp. casei LLG) indicated that the two enzyme activities were due to distinct proteins. Except for a slight increase in x-prolyl dipeptidyl peptidase activity, the activities of proline imino- and endopeptidases of cells grown in whey medium did not vary markedly from those of cells grown in MRS broth. The effect of inhibitor agents and pH on the activities of proline iminopeptidase and x-prolyl dipeptidyl peptidase were investigated. The temperature optima and storage stability under different conditions were also studied for these activities.
Hormonal regulation of non-lysosomal proteinase in rat hepatocytes]	The effects of exogenic and metabolite-induced insulin and glucagon on rat hepatocyte serine proteinase metabolism were studied. The enzyme functioning time was assessed, as were the constants of synthesis and disintegration rates of proteinase localized in various parts of the cell. Chromatographic, electrophoretic, and radioimmunochemical methods of analysis were used in the study. The presented numerical values are the results of a series of ten experiments, processed by variation statistics method. Exposure to exogenic insulin resulted in a reduction of synthesis rate and of newly synthetized proteinase concentration in the cytosol fraction, this being parallelled by a negligible prolongation of functioning enzyme life time and an increase in the rate of enzyme supply to peroxisomes. Exogenic glucagon stimulated by 7.3 times the rate of cytosol proteinase synthesis. Glucagon administration resulted in an increase of the rate of supply of newly synthetized molecules of the enzyme to mitochondria and peroxisomes. The data presented evidence that hormonal effects on protein metabolism processes in organs and tissues may be mediated by nonlysosomal proteolysis regulation.
Theoretical aspects of the mechanism of proteolytic enzyme action. V. C-terminal specificity of serine proteinases]	Tetrahedral intermediates of the alpha-chymotrypsin acylation by N-protected amide dipeptide substrates having different leaving groups were analyzed by means of the molecular mechanic method. A predominant role of the C-terminal interactions in the leaving group protonation and in the development of a kinetic specificity was determined. The kinetic specificity of serine proteases was shown to be controlled by the transformation of various forms of tetrahedral substrate intermediates at the presteady stage.
Evidence for a two-step mechanism of gonadotropin-releasing hormone metabolism by prolyl endopeptidase and metalloendopeptidase EC 3.4.24.15 in ovine hypothalamic extracts.	The metalloendopeptidase EC 3.4.24.15 is believed to degrade gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) (pGlu-His-Trp-Ser-Tyr-Gly-Leu-Arg-Pro-Gly-NH2) by cleavage at the Tyr5-Gly6 bond. We compared the ability of crude and partially purified endopeptidase 24.15 from ovine hypothalamus with recombinant rat testicular endopeptidase 24.15 to degrade synthetic GnRH. Both soluble and membrane hypothalamic fractions degraded GnRH to GnRH1-5, with some production of GnRH1-9 and GnRH1-3. Generation of the smaller fragments was blocked by a specific endopeptidase 24.15 inhibitor (CFP-AAY-pAB), but production of GnRH1-9 was reciprocally enhanced, suggesting this peptide may be an intermediate generated by prolyl endopeptidase. Indeed, both bacitracin and Z-Pro-prolinal, inhibitors of this enzyme, markedly reduced GnRH degradation to any product. Degradation of synthetic GnRH1-9 was more rapid than that of GnRH and was inhibited by CFP-AAY-pAB but not bacitracin. Activity against either substrate was greater in the soluble fraction. Repeated washing of the membrane fraction followed by extraction with Triton X-114 suggested that both endopeptidase 24.15 and prolyl endopeptidase, although predominantly soluble, can be peripherally associated with membranes. When fractionated by hydrophobic interaction chromatography, soluble endopeptidase 24.15 degraded GnRH only in fractions that also exhibited prolyl endopeptidase activity. In contrast, maximal degradation of GnRH1-9 was observed in adjacent fractions, which also contained the highest levels of immunoreactive endopeptidase 24.15. The affinity of recombinant endopeptidase 24.15 for GnRH was low (Km = 1.35 mM), was improved 10-15-fold by removal of the COOH-terminal amide or glycinamide (Km = 90 and 119 microM, respectively), and could be inhibited by CFP-AAY-pAB but not bacitracin. Taken together, these results suggest that GnRH metabolism in the hypothalamus may occur via a two-step process involving first removal of Gly10-NH2 by prolyl endopeptidase, followed by cleavage by endopeptidase 24.15 at the Tyr5-Gly6 bond.
Aminopeptidase Y, a new aminopeptidase from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Purification, properties, localization, and processing by protease B.	A novel aminopeptidase, termed aminopeptidase Y, was purified from yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, as two molecular forms of 70 and 75 kDa, which were identical immunologically, catalytically and in N-terminal sequence up to 14 residues. They contained 0.81 and 0.84 mol of zinc atom/mol of protein, respectively. N-Gly-canase generated a single 53-kDa species from both forms, and endoglycosidase H gave a 54-kDa species. Immunoblotting after subcellular fractionation showed that aminopeptidase Y is localized in the vacuole/lysosome-soluble compartment as the 70-kDa form. Aminopeptidase Y hydrolyzed all amino acid-4-methylcoumaryl-7-amides (MCA) examined, especially Lys- and Arg-MCA. Dipeptidyl-MCAs were far more rapidly hydrolyzed (Lys-Ala-MCA/Lys-MCA = 350-fold, Arg-Arg-MCA/Arg-MCA = 150-fold). Hydrolysis of amino acid-MCAs or dipeptides was markedly enhanced by Co2+, whereas that of dipeptidyl-MCAs, tripeptides, and larger peptides was inhibited. Rabbit anti-aminopeptidase Y antiserum adsorbed over half the aminopeptidase activities in vacuolar extract from wild-type yeast cells. ABYS1 mutant cells from which the genes of four vacuolar proteases had been deleted contained aminopeptidase Y as a 74-kDa proform. This was converted to the mature form (70 kDa) by vacuolar extract of wild-type cells and by purified yeast vacuolar protease B.
Protease-dependent T cell activation: ligation of effector cell protease receptor-1 (EPR-1) stimulates lymphocyte proliferation.	Blood proteases regulate cellular growth through the recognition and signaling properties of specialized membrane receptors. Previous studies have identified a novel lymphocyte activation-dependent antigen, denominated effector cell protease receptor-1 (EPR-1), which binds the coagulation protease factor Xa on various leukocyte subsets. Here we show that occupancy of EPR-1 with physiologic concentrations of factor Xa (15-75 nM), or with "surrogate" monoclonal antibody ligands, stimulates proliferation of both T and B lymphocyte subsets and augments CD3-dependent lymphocyte proliferation. At suboptimal responder cell concentrations, ligation of EPR-1 costimulates lymphocyte proliferation in the presence of accessory signals, i.e., phorbol ester, IL-2. At higher responder cell concentrations, occupancy of EPR-1 per se is sufficient to initiate lymphocyte proliferation. EPR-1-dependent T cell activation is associated with early surface expression of IL-2 receptor on target cells, thus increasing by five- to eightfold their mitogenic responsiveness to very low doses of IL-2 (0.2 U/ml). Consistent with a postulated role in transmembrane signal transduction, cross-linking of EPR-1 transiently increases cytosolic free [Ca2+]i in single adherent T cells. These findings suggest that proteases ubiquitously generated in vivo might contribute a regulatory mechanism of cytokine- or antigen receptor-dependent T cell activation and identify EPR-1 as a novel signal-transducing molecule of lymphocyte stimulation.
Interaction of heparin with rat mast cell protease 1.	Heparin is a sulfated glycosaminoglycan, synthesized by connective tissue-type mast cells. Rat mast cell protease 1 (RMCP-1), a chymotrypsin-like serine protease expressed specifically by connective tissue-type mast cells, is recovered in a macromolecular complex with heparin proteoglycan. The heparin.RMCP-1 complexes are stored in the secretory granules of the cells and are released following mast cell activation. We showed previously that dissociation of RMCP-1 from heparin resulted in loss of protease activity, as measured by its ability to inactivate thrombin. In the present report the binding of heparin to RMCP-1 was characterized. Affinity chromatography on heparin-Sepharose showed that RMCP-1 displayed high affinity for heparin, with approximately 1.2 M NaCl being required for elution of RMCP-1 from the affinity matrix. The structural requirements for the binding of heparin to RMCP-1 were investigated. Heparan sulfate, chondroitin sulfate, and dermatan sulfate, three glycosaminoglycans structurally related to heparin, were > or = 80-fold less effective in binding to RMCP-1 than heparin. The 2-O-sulfate, 6-O-sulfate, and N-sulfate groups in heparin were all shown to contribute in the binding. The minimal heparin sequence required for binding to RMCP-1 was found in a 14-saccharide fraction. 14-Saccharide species, obtained after separation by anion exchange chromatography, showed continuously increased binding with increasing anionic charge densities. The 16-18-saccharides were the smallest heparin oligosaccharides capable of accelerating the inactivation of thrombin by RMCP-1.
Interaction of vinculin with the clathrin heavy chain.	To further document the interaction of vinculin with the clathrin heavy chain (CHC) which was observed by using gel overlay, co-sedimentation experiments were performed and attempts were made to localize the domains involved on both molecules. The binding properties of proteolytic fragments of vinculin were investigated after cleavage with V8 protease. Neither the isolated globular domain, nor the C-terminal rod domain were able to interact with the CHC. Either the interaction involved the portion of vinculin which links these two domains, or the region of vinculin mediating the interaction was present on one of the two major fragments, but the cleavage itself resulted in conformational changes which abolished the binding. The first hypothesis could be ruled out using alpha-chymotrypsin generated fragments of vinculin, suggesting that the native conformation of vinculin might play an important role. Proteolytic cleavage of CHC with trypsin demonstrated that the interaction with vinculin is mediated by the proximal or distal segment of the CHC. Presence of clathrin light chain (CLC) associated with the CHC did not affect its interaction with vinculin. Vinculin did not interact with the CLC.
Proteolytic cleavage of bovine IgG by hypodermin A, a serine protease of Hypoderma lineatum (Diptera: Oestridae).	Cattle grub larvae are able to survive a lengthy 8 1/2-mo internal migration within the naive bovine host connective tissues. Larval survival is observed even in the presence of host immunological responses to principal parasite proteins. In this study, data are presented that suggest that a digestive enzyme, hypodermin A, of the first-instar larvae effectively cleaves bovine immunoglobulin G in vitro. A (fab)'2 fragment is produced, and the heavy-chain fragments associated with the cleaved fc piece remain intact. Hypodermin A is not specific for bovine IgG as other species' IgGs are also degraded as are other bovine proteins. Destruction of the biological activity of bovine immunoglobulin G by hypodermin A suggests a potential parasite escape mechanism that may contribute to the survival of first-instar larvae within the bovine host.
Inhibition of proteinase 3 activity by peptides derived from human epidermis.	Elafin and antileukoprotease are potent peptide-like inhibitors of human leukocyte elastase and have been isolated from human skin and bronchial mucus. Elafin proved to be a potent inhibitor of proteinase 3, whereas other inhibitors of human leukocyte elastase such as antileukoprotease and eglin C proved to be much less effective.
Studies to demonstrate inhibition of functional activity of neutrophil lysosomal enzymes with ANCA.	Many autoantibodies that have enzymes as their targets bind to the catalytic sites and inhibit enzymatic activity. We have established functional assays for the targets of anti-neutrophil cytoplasm antibodies (ANCA) in order to determine whether these antibodies are directed against the corresponding catalytic sites. Anti-proteinase 3 activity was measured by the cleavage of alpha-naphthyl acetate; myeloperoxidase activity by peroxidation of monochlorodimedon or guaiacol using hydrogen peroxide; and elastase activity by a fluorimetric assay of the hydrolytic product of N-succ (ala)3 amido-methyl coumarin. The addition of immunoglobulin from patients with ANCA to these assays did not result in inhibition of functional activity of the corresponding enzyme when compared with normal immunoglobulin. Furthermore the removal of specific immunoglobulin by solid phase adsorption to the corresponding antigen did not result in an increase in enzymatic activity compared with the starting material. However preliminary results suggest that anti-neutrophil proteinase 3 binding may be inhibited in a solid-phase ELISA by preincubation with a peptide corresponding to the catalytic site.
Establishment of a human lung squamous cell carcinoma cell line LK-17, and characterization of procoagulant, platelet aggregation and metastatic potential]	A squamous cell carcinoma cell line LK-17 was established from original surgical specimen of the lung. Doubling time of LK-17 in vitro is 43.2 hours, and chromosome analysis shows various abnormality and main modeat 62. LK-17 shows stable metastatic potential to the lung of nude mouse when injected i.v. LK-17 cells show platelet aggregating activity with number population dependent manner. LK-17 secretes direct factor X activating procoagulant which differs from those of tissue factor, cystein protease A and coagulant cancer antigen 1. These platelet aggregation potential and procoagulant activity may play a important roll in metastatic process.
Expression of virus-encoded proteinases: functional and structural similarities with cellular enzymes.	Many viruses express their genome, or part of their genome, initially as a polyprotein precursor that undergoes proteolytic processing. Molecular genetic analyses of viral gene expression have revealed that many of these processing events are mediated by virus-encoded proteinases. Biochemical activity studies and structural analyses of these viral enzymes reveal that they have remarkable similarities to cellular proteinases. However, the viral proteinases have evolved unique features that permit them to function in a cellular environment. In this article, the current status of plant and animal virus proteinases is described along with their role in the viral replication cycle. The reactions catalyzed by viral proteinases are not simple enzyme-substrate interactions; rather, the processing steps are highly regulated, are coordinated with other viral processes, and frequently involve the participation of other factors.
Some properties of a capillary permeability-increasing enzyme-2 from the venom of Agkistrodon caliginosus (Kankoku-Mamushi).	Capillary permeability-increasing enzyme-2 (CPI-enzyme-2) consists of a single polypeptide chain with an isoelectric point of pH 3.5. The enzyme is composed of 369 amino acid residues, based on a mol. wt of 44,000, and contains 20.3% carbohydrate. Both arginine ester hydrolytic and capillary permeability-increasing activities of the enzyme were inhibited by treatment with diisopropylfluorophosphate, indicating that the enzyme is a serine proteinase. The N-terminal amino acid sequence shows homology with that of CPI-enzyme-1 and similarity to those of batroxobin or kallikrein-like enzyme from other snake venoms.
Hydrolytic specificity of three basic proteinases isolated from the venom of Bothrops moojeni for the B-chain of oxidized insulin.	The hydrolytic activity of three basic proteinases isolated from Bothrops moojeni venom was determined on the B-chain of oxidized insulin. The serine proteinases MSP1 and MSP2 cleave the insulin B-chain at identical positions and in the same order of bond cleavage. Cleavage occurs first at the Arg-Gly(22-23) position, followed by hydrolysis of the Lys-Ala(29-30) peptide bond. The metalloproteinase MPB differs from the serine proteinases in cleaving the insulin B-chain very rapidly at four positions: Ser-His(9-10), Ala-Leu(14-15), Tyr-Leu(16-17) and Phe-Phe(24-25).
Purification and characterization of the endogenous inhibitor for proteinase B from Schizosaccharomyces pombe.	A rapid purification procedure for the endogenous inhibitor of proteinase yspB from Schizosaccharomyces pombe is described. Starting from a boiled extract, the purification procedure included an ionic exchange chromatography and two reverse phase chromatographies using a HPLC system. The molecular mass of the purified polypeptide was estimated to be 8,100 Da by gel filtration. The isoelectric point of the inhibitor was found to be 5.3 after electrofocusing of a purified preparation. The amino acid composition of the proteinase yspB inhibitor was analyzed after acid hydrolysis. The calculated number of residues was 67 and the corresponding molecular mass 7370 Da. There are several differences in the molecular characteristics between the inhibitor from Schizosaccharomyces pombe and the corresponding inhibitor previously purified from Saccharomyces cerevisiae which might reflect the evolutionary divergence between the two yeast genera.
Extracellular enzyme synthesis in a sporulation-deficient strain of Bacillus licheniformis.	A deletion of the spoIIAC gene of Bacillus licheniformis was prepared in vitro by using the splicing-by-overlap-extension technique. This gene was introduced into B. licheniformis on a temperature-sensitive plasmid, and following integration and excision from the chromosome, a precisely located deletion on the chromosomal gene was prepared. The mutated bacterium was totally asporogenous and formed abortively disporic cells characterized by asymmetric septa at the poles of the cells. Qualitative plate tests revealed that the bacterium synthesized normal levels of DNase, polygalacturonate lyase, protease, RNase, and xylanase, but the hydrolysis zones due to beta-1,3-glucanase and carboxymethyl cellulase activity were smaller in the mutant than in the parent strain. The synthesis of alkaline protease was the same in batch cultures of the mutant and the parent during prolonged incubation for 72 h, but the alpha-amylase yields were reduced by about 30% by the mutation.
Identification of a novel ATP-dependent proteolytic activity in mitochondrial intermembrane space.	The formation of primary amines via proteolysis was monitored in isolated rat liver, kidney cortex and heart mitochondria in the presence and in the absence of ATP. The highest proteolytic activity was detected in kidney cortex mitochondria with about 120 nmoles primary amines/hour x mg protein. The formation rates of liver mitochondria amounted to about 100 nmoles primary amines/hour x mg protein and in heart mitochondria about 60 nmoles primary amines/hour x mg protein. In all mitochondria investigated an ATP-dependent proteolysis of 20-40 nmoles primary amines/hour x mg protein was detected. The effects of various protease inhibitors were tested in rat liver mitochondria and thiol-specific reagents showed a 35-70% inhibition. The ATP stimulable portion of proteolysis was blocked by hemin, a known inhibitor of ATP-dependent proteases. The localization of the proteolytic activity was tested by fractionation of the compartments of rat liver mitochondria using the flourogenic peptide suc-Leu-Leu-Val-Tyr-MCA as substrate. About 90% of the ATP-dependent peptide cleavage activity were found in the mitochondrial intermembrane space. The characteristics of the enzyme were compared to those of other known mitochondrial ATP-dependent proteases and it was concluded that it represents a novel proteolytic system of the intermembrane space.
Reversal of multiple-site tumor cell-induced immunosuppression by specific cytokines and pharmacological agents.	The present study explores a model for tumor cell-induced immunosuppression and reversal of suppression by cytokines and other pharmacological agents. To simulate tumor-cell-induced suppression, a panel of suppressor agents which included CsA (cyclosporin A), SSP (staurosporine), BSO (L-buthionine-[S,R]-sulfoximine) and PMA, and a panel of anti-suppressor agents which included IL-2, IL-4, GSH (glutathione) and amiloride, were tested. These suppressor/anti-suppressor agents acted differently on four specific sites of the immune arm that affected the alpha CD3-induced T cell proliferative and cytotoxic responses. They included (1) IL-2 production, (2) PKC-regulated cytolytic granule production, (3) GSH-regulated maturation of functional granules, and (4) granule exocytosis. When a single suppressor agent was used, all the suppressor agents tested in this study inhibited the generation of alpha CD3-induced activated killer cells (CD3-AK), whereas alpha CD3-induced proliferation was inhibited by CsA, BSO, and EL-4 tumor cells. Except for EL-4, suppression induced by a single suppressor agent could be corrected by an appropriate single anti-suppressor agent. Multiple suppressor agents induced profound suppression of CD3-AK response. In most cases, multiple anti-suppressor agents were required to correct the immune defects induced by multiple suppressor agents. Finally, EL-4 tumor-cell-induced immunosuppression could not be corrected by any single anti-suppressor agent tested, but a combination of IL-4, GSH and amiloride fully restored the CD3-AK response. These results suggest that tumor cells may induce multiple immune defects that require multiple anti-suppressor agents for correcting the defects to restore the host immunocompetence.
Degradation of mistargeted OEE33 in the chloroplast stroma.	OEE33, a component of the oxygen-evolving enzyme in chloroplasts, normally resides in the thylakoid lumen. In an attempt to study the fate of mistargeted proteins in chloroplasts, we substituted the bipartite transit peptide of OEE33 with that of CAB7, an integral thylakoid-membrane protein. As a result, when imported into isolated chloroplasts, the chimeric protein protein was targeted to the stroma instead of the thylakoid lumen. Whereas the wild-type OEE33 was totally stable for at least 2 h, the chimeric protein was rapidly degraded, with a half-life of 60 min. Degradation of the chimeric protein was stimulated by ATP supplementation. Degradation could also be observed in lysed chloroplasts, in an ATP-stimulated manner. When lysates were fractionated, the proteolytic activity was found to be associated mainly with the stromal fraction. This activity was very effectively inhibited by all tested inhibitors of serine proteases. Western blot analysis demonstrated that the stromal fraction active in degrading the chimeric OEE33 contains ClpC and ClpP, homologues of the regulatory and proteolytic subunits, respectively, of the bacterial, ATP-dependent, serine-type Clp protease.
Immunomorphologic studies of mast cell heterogeneity, location, and distribution in the rat conjunctiva.	Mast cells are crucial components of immediate and some delayed-type hypersensitivity reactions. They play a pivotal role in allergic conjunctivitis and other immunoinflammatory disorders of the ocular surface, yet little is known of their distribution and heterogeneity in the conjunctiva of potential animal models, such as the rat. In this study, mast cell types were investigated in histologic sections and corneal-conjunctival-lid whole mounts by using toluidine blue, alcian blue-safranin, and immunohistochemical staining methods (anti-rat mast cell proteinase [RMCP] antibodies). Quantitative analyses were performed on corneal-conjunctival-lid whole mounts by using the optical dissector procedure to obtain the density of mast cells per unit volume in different regions of the conjunctiva. Single and double immunohistochemical analyses revealed that the mast cells in the conjunctiva of the limbus, fornices, and lid margin were strongly RMCP I+, suggesting that they were of the connective tissue phenotype. Mast cells containing the mucosal mast cell proteinase RMCP II were not present in the normal conjunctiva. Histochemical analysis revealed that the maturity of the connective tissue mast cells, as assessed by the presence or absence of safranin (heparin)-positive granules in their cytoplasm varied in different regions. In the lid margin 60% to 78% of the mast cells were solely alcian blue-positive, whereas in the fornices 68% to 78% were safranin-positive. In the limbus the predominant type of mast cell was either safranin-positive or contained mixed granules. Mast cell densities were greatest close to the lid margin (10,000 to 12,000 cells/mm3), followed by the limbus (3400 to 4800 cells/mm3) and were rare in the remainder of the conjunctiva (500 to 1000 cells/mm3), with the exception of the region around the nictitating membrane. This study of rat conjunctival mast cells provides essential baseline data for future studies of the role of mast cells in models of allergic conjunctivitis.
Substrate behavior of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 is not associated with a lack of insertion of the reactive site loop.	Plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) is a unique member of the serpin superfamily. In the present study, we have evaluated the effect of substitution, with a proline, at positions P5, P7, P14, P15, or P16, on the conformational flexibility and functional properties of PAI-1. These mutants (PAI-1-P5, IIe-->Pro at P5; PAI-1-P7, Ala-->Pro at P7; PAI-1-P14, Thr-->Pro at P14; PAI-1-P15, Gly-->Pro at P15; PAI-1-P16, Ser-->Pro at P16) were purified and fully characterized. WtPAI-1 had a specific activity of 68 +/- 10% (mean +/- SD, n = 6) whereas PAI-1-P5, PAI-1-P7, and PAI-1-P16 had specific activities of 34 +/- 9.3%, 42 +/- 10%, and 36 +/- 11%, respectively. PAI-1-P14 and PAI-1-P15 did not exhibit significant inhibitory activity. Conformational analysis revealed that wtPAI-1 preparations contained 12 +/- 2.0% substrate, whereas PAI-1-P5, PAI-1-P7, and PAI-1-P16 were characterized with a significantly (p < 0.001) increased substrate behavior (i.e., 43 +/- 6.1%, 42 +/- 1.5% and 22 +/- 1.7%, respectively). The inactive variants PAI-1-P14 and PAI-1-P15 behaved exclusively as substrates toward various serine proteinases. Heat denaturation studies revealed that cleavage of any noninhibitory substrate form of PAI-1 resulted in an insertion of the NH2-terminal side of the reactive site loop. Incubation with plasmin showed the presence of a unique plasmin cleavage site (Lys191-Ser192) exclusively present in all latent forms studied. We conclude that (a) the entire P5 to P16 region in PAI-1 plays an important role in the functional and conformational properties of PAI-1; (b) the substrate behavior of serpins is not associated with a lack of insertion of the reactive site loop; (c) the identification of a plasmin cleavage site in latent PAI-1 may provide new insights in the mechanisms for the inactivation of storage pools of PAI-1.
Target cell-induced apoptosis of interleukin-2-activated human natural killer cells: roles of cell surface molecules and intracellular events.	We previously reported that natural killer (NK)-sensitive target cells, K562, kill interleukin-2-stimulated (lymphokine-activated killer [LAK]) but not unstimulated NK cells. We have now investigated the molecular basis of this phenomenon. Soluble monoclonal antibody (MoAb) to CD18 inhibited 75% of K562-induced DNA fragmentation and membrane disruption, whereas blocking MoAb to Fas partially inhibited only the DNA fragmentation. MoAbs to CD2, CD11a, CD11b, B7, or CD16 had limited or no effect on K562-induced death of LAK cells. Receptor ligation with either immobilized MoAb to CD18 or Fas induced membrane disruption and DNA degradation in LAK cells independently of K562, and MoAb to CD18, CD11a, or CD11b enhanced DNA fragmentation induced by anti-Fas. Fas-L-transfected Raji cells also killed LAK cells, but only if Fas-L expression was amplified. K562 cells rapidly triggered protein phosphorylation in LAK cells, and the tyrosine kinase inhibitor, Herbimycin A, inhibited DNA fragmentation and membrane disruption. Protease inhibitors strongly suppressed K562-mediated DNA fragmentation of LAK cells, but not membrane disruption. In conclusion, (1) K562-induced death of LAK cells involves primarily CD18, although other molecules, such as Fas, may also be involved; (2) K562-mediated apoptosis of LAK cells requires tyrosine phosphorylation and protease activity; (3) engagement of Fas by immobilized MoAb or Fas-L on target cells can also kill LAK cells; and (4) Fas-immobilized MoAb synergizes with coimmobilized MoAb to CD11a, CD11b, or CD18 for LAK cell killing. Activation-induced death of NK cells may represent a mechanism for NK cell regulation.
Influenza B virus NB glycoprotein is a component of the virion.	The influenza B virus NB glycoprotein is abundantly expressed at the surface of virus-infected cells. NB spans the membrane once and has an 18 amino acid ectodomain, a 22 amino acid transmembrane domain, and a 60 amino acid cytoplasmic tail. The NB N-terminal ectodomain contains two asparagine residues that are modified by the addition of palmitic N-linked carbohydrate chains, which become further modified by the addition of polylactosaminoglycan. We have now shown that NB is also modified by addition of acid. To determine if NB is incorporated into virions, metabolic labeling, immunoblotting, and immunogold electron microscopy techniques were used. NB was identified in virions grown in MDCK cells or in embryonated chicken eggs in two forms: (a) NB modified by addition of polylactosaminoglycan (NBpl), and (b) a cleaved species (NBc) that has a smaller molecular weight than unglycosylated NB (NB12). Proteinase K digestion of purified virions converted NBpl to NBc. Examination of virions purified by isopycnic centrifugation by electronmicroscopy and immunogold staining, using an affinity-purified antibody raised to a peptide derived from the NB cytoplasmic tail, showed staining for NB in influenza B virions. Quantification of the amount of NB in purified virions using two unrelated biochemical methods indicated there are on average approximately 15-100 molecules of NB per virion. Although the number of NB molecules incorporated on average into an influenza B virus particle is small, this finding is reminiscent of the number of molecules (14-68 monomers) found on average of the M2 integral membrane protein of influenza A virus.
Human cytoplasmic antiproteinase neutralizes rapidly and efficiently chymotrypsin and trypsin-like proteases utilizing distinct reactive site residues.	Human cytoplasmic antiproteinase (CAP) is an intracellular serpin that has been reported to utilize Arg341 as the reactive site P1 residue to neutralize a broad variety of extracellular serine proteases with trypsin-like specificity. Both native CAP and recombinant CAP purified from Escherichia coli were observed to form SDS-stable complexes not only with 125I-thrombin and 125I-urokinase, but also with 125I-chymotrypsin. Kinetic studies indicated that the amidolytic activity of chymotrypsin is inhibited efficiently and rapidly by CAP in a two-step process with a dissociation constant Ki of an initial loose complex of 3.3 nM, a forward isomerization rate constant k2 to the tight complex of 0.014 s-1, and an overall second order association rate constant of 6 x 10(6) M-1 s-1, similar to the kinetic constants obtained for the formation of the trypsin-CAP complex. N-terminal amino acid sequencing and mass spectrometry indicated that chymotrypsin interacts with CAP at Met340, in contrast to thrombin, which interacts as expected at Arg341. Thus, CAP is the first serpin that has been shown to be capable to inhibit efficiently and with similar association rate constants different proteases at distinct reactive site residues, strongly supporting the notion of a highly mobile and flexible serpin reactive site loop and suggesting that this inhibitor may have evolved separate reactive sites for the specific regulation of different proteolytic activities.
ICE-LAP6, a novel member of the ICE/Ced-3 gene family, is activated by the cytotoxic T cell protease granzyme B.	Members of the ICE/Ced-3 gene family are likely effector components of the cell death machinery. Here, we characterize a novel member of this family designated ICE-LAP6. By phylogenetic analysis, ICE-LAP6 is classified into the Ced-3 subfamily which includes Ced-3, Yama/CPP32/apopain, Mch2, and ICE-LAP3/Mch3/CMH-1. Interestingly, ICE-LAP6 contains an active site QACGG pentapeptide, rather than the QACRG pentapeptide shared by other family members. Overexpression of ICE-LAP6 induces apoptosis in MCF7 breast carcinoma cells. More importantly, ICE-LAP6 is proteolytically processed into an active cysteine protease by granzyme B, an important component of cytotoxic T cell-mediated apoptosis. Once activated, ICE-LAP6 is able to cleave the death substrate poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase into signature apoptotic fragments.
The homologue of mammalian SPC12 is important for efficient signal peptidase activity in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	The multisubunit signal peptidase catalyzes the cleavage of signal peptides and the degradation of some membrane proteins within the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). The only subunit of this enzyme functionally examined to date, yeast Sec11p, is related to signal peptidase I from bacteria. Since bacterial signal peptidase is capable of processing both prokaryotic and eukaryotic signal sequences as a monomer, it is unclear why the analogous enzyme in the ER contains proteins unrelated to signal peptidase I. To address this issue, the gene encoding Spc1p, the yeast homologue to mammalian SPC12, is isolated from the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Spc1p co-purifies and genetically interacts with Sec11p, but unlike Sec11p, Spc1p is not required for cell growth or the proteolytic processing of tested proteins in yeast. This indicates that only a subset of the ER signal peptidase subunits is required for signal peptidase and protein degradation activities in vivo. Through both genetic and biochemical criteria, Spc1p appears, however, to be important for efficient signal peptidase activity.
Human lactase-phlorizin hydrolase is not processed by furin, PC1/PC3, PC2, PACE4 and PC5/PC6A of the family of subtilisin-like proprotein processing proteases.	Human lactase-phlorizin hydrolase (LPH, EC 3.2.1.23/62) is synthesized as a single-chain precursor glycoprotein (pro-LPH) with a relative molecular mass of just over 200 kDa. Maturation to the mature enzyme (m-LPH, 160 kDa) occurs after passage of pro-LPH through the Golgi complex and involves the proteolytic removal of a 849 amino acid propeptide. The role of this propeptide as well as its removal is not fully understood and the proteolytic enzyme or enzymes involved are unknown. We studied the potential role of five different members of the family of subtilisin-like proprotein processing proteases in the maturation process of human LPH using a vaccinia virus based coexpression system in pig kidney PK(15) cells. Infected/transfected PK(15) cells expressed full-length pro-LPH but no maturation to m-LPH was observed. Coexpression of human pro-LPH with human furin, human PC1/PC3, human PC2, human PACE4 and mouse PC6A in PK(15) cells did not result in maturation of the enzyme. Cleavage and secretion of von Willebrand factor precursor (pro-vWF) was used as a positive control. None of the five proprotein processing proteases tested were capable of cleaving human pro-LPH, strongly suggesting that they are not involved in the maturation of this enzyme.
Human synovial mast cells. I. Ultrastructural in situ and in vitro immunologic characterization.	To examine the ultrastructure of human synovial mast cells in situ, to identify immunologic and nonimmunologic stimuli that activate these cells in vitro, and to quantify a number of preformed and de novo-synthesized mediators.
Separation of scrapie prion infectivity from PrP amyloid polymers.	The prion protein (PrP) undergoes a profound conformational change when the cellular isoform (PrPC) is converted into the scrapie form (PrPSc). Limited proteolysis of PrPsc produces PrP 27-30 which readily polymerizes into amyloid. To study the structure of PrP amyloid, we employed organic solvents that perturb protein conformation. Hexafluoro-2-propanol (HFIP), which promotes alpha-helix formation, modified the ultrastructure of rod-shaped PrP amyloids; flattened ribbons with a more regular substructure were found. As the concentration of HFIP was increased, the beta-sheet content and proteinase K resistance of PrP 27-30 as well as prion infectivity diminished. HFIP reversibly decreased the binding of Congo red dye to the rods while inactivation of prion infectivity was irreversible. In contrast to 10% HFIP, 1,1,1-trifluoro-2-propanol (TFIP) did not inactivate prion infectivity but like HFIP, TFIP did alter the morphology of the rods and abolish Congo red binding. This study separates prion infectivity from the amyloid properties of PrP 27-30 and underscores the dependence of prion infectivity on PrPSc conformation. The results also demonstrate that the specific beta-sheet-rich structures required for prion infectivity can be differentiated from those needed for amyloid formation as determined by Congo red binding.
Degradation of aggrecan precursors within a specialized subcompartment of the chicken chondrocyte endoplasmic reticulum.	Chicken chondrocytes in culture synthesize aggrecan proteoglycan as a 370 kDa precursor that is glycosylated and secreted into the medium with a half-life of 30 min. In metabolic studies the 370 kDa precursor was shown to render a degradation intermediate of 190 kDa, which appeared with no measurable lag phase; it was dependent on temperature ( > 20 degrees C) and inhibited by certain serine and serine/cysteine protease inhibitors such as leupeptin and PMSF. By contrast, degradation was unaffected by treatment of the cells with brefeldin A or with lysosomotropic agents. Aggrecan precursors were detected by immunofluorescence analysis within a subcompartment of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), previously characterized as a smooth-membrane-bound subregion [Vertel, Velasco, LaFrance, Walters and Kaczman-Daniel (1989) J. Cell Biol. 109, 1827-1836]. Analysis of the subcellular fractions derived from chondrocytes indicated that the degradation intermediate was concentrated in the ER subcompartment. Degradation was dependent on the Ca2+ concentration and the redox state in the ER. Treatment of the cells with agents or conditions that alter the degradation rate of aggrecan precursors, such as protease inhibitors, decreased temperature or dithiothreitol, also modified the retention of these molecules in the ER subcompartment, as seen by immunofluorescence. These results indicate that a fraction of the 370 kDa aggrecan precursor is targeted to a smooth ER subcompartment where it undergoes degradation.
Effect of a novel prolyl endopeptidase inhibitor, JTP-4819, on neuropeptide metabolism in the rat brain.	The effect of a novel prolyl endopeptidase (PEP) inhibitor, (S)-2-[[(S)-2-(hydroxyacetyl)-1-pyrrolidinyl] carbonyl]-N-(phenylmethyl)-1-pyrrolidine-carboxamide (JTP-4819), on neuropeptide metabolism was investigated in the rat brain. JTP-4819 exhibited a strong in vitro inhibitory effect on cortical and hippocampal PEP activity, with the IC50 values being approximately 0.58 +/- 0.02 and 0.61 +/- 0.06 nM, respectively. JTP-4819 also inhibited the in vitro degradation of substance P (SP), arginine-vasopressin (AVP), and thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) by rat brain supernatants, with the IC50 values being respectively 3.4, 2.1, and 1.4 nM in the cerebral cortex and 3.3, 2.8, and 1.9 nM in the hippocampus. Oral administration of JTP-4819 at doses of 1 and 3 mg/kg increased SP-like immunoreactivity (LI) and AVP-LI in the cerebral cortex. JTP-4819 also increased hippocampal SP-LI and AVP-LI at doses of 1 and 3 mg/kg, as well as hippocampal TRH-LI at a dose of 3 mg/kg. These findings suggest that JTP-4819 inhibited the degradation of SP, AVP, and TRH in the rat brain secondary to the inhibition of PEP, and thus increased cortical and hippocampal SP-LI and AVP-LI as well as hippocampal TRH-LI.
Stem cell factor enhances immunoglobulin E-dependent mediator release from cultured rat bone marrow-derived mast cells: activation of previously unresponsive cells demonstrated by a novel ELISPOT assay.	Mucosal mast cells (MMC) are important effector cells in the immune response against gastrointestinal nematodes. We used cultured rat bone marrow-derived mast cells (BMMC) as an in vitro model of MMC to study the effects of the multifunctional cytokine stem cell factor (SCF) on immunoglobulin E (IgE)-dependent secretion of granule mediators. SCF (< or = 1000 ng/ml) was not a direct secretagogue for these cells, but it significantly enhanced IgE-mediated secretion of the granule constituents rat mast cell protease-II (RMCP-II) and beta-hexosaminidase from mature BMMC in a dose-dependent manner (> 10 ng/ml). Maximum up-regulation of secretion occurred after cells were pretreated with SCF (50 ng/ml) for 5 minutes before challenge with anti-IgE, but the effect then declined and was absent in cells incubated with the cytokine for 3 to 24 h. In a novel ELISPOT assay developed to identify individual BMMC secreting RMCP-II, the proportion of mature BMMC responding to anti-IgE was significantly increased by treatment with SCF. To investigate this effect further, the percentage release of RMCP-II and beta-hexosaminidase from populations of mature BMMC was directly compared to the proportion of individual cells releasing RMCP-II as detected by ELISPOT. The release of both mediators was enhanced by SCF, and the increased percentage release reflected both an increased proportion of secreting cells, and enhanced mediator release from individual cells. These results suggest that SCF can enhance IgE-dependent mediator release from BMMC not only by augmenting the secretory response from individual cells, but also by activating previously unresponsive cells.
Functional evidence for alternative ANG II-forming pathways in hamster cardiovascular system.	Like human chymase, hamster chymase is an ANG II-forming enzyme, but pathophysiological roles of chymase are still unknown. We determined the functional conversion of ANG I and [Pro11, D-Ala12]ANG I, a chymase-selective substrate, to ANG II in the hamster cardiovascular system. ANG I and [Pro11, D-Ala12]ANG I produced similar dose-dependent pressor responses in conscious hamsters. Captopril and CV-11974, an ANG II type 1 (AT1)-receptor antagonist, inhibited the responses to ANG I; in contrast, the pressor responses to [Pro11, D-Ala12]ANG I were suppressed only by CV-11974. In the isolated aorta, captopril suppressed ANG I-induced contraction by 84%; administration of captopril with either chymostatin or aprotinin eliminated the contraction. [Pro11, D-Ala12]ANG I-induced contraction was not affected by captopril but was attenuated by chymostatin (71%) and aprotinin (57%). CV-11974 abolished the responses to both substrates, whereas PD-123319, an AT2-receptor antagonist, had no effect. In homogenates of the aorta and heart, soybean trypsin inhibitor-inhibitable ANG II formation predominated over captopril- or aprotinin-inhibitable ANG II formation. These data suggest that [Pro11,D-Ala12]ANG I and part of ANG I were functionally converted to ANG II by chymase and other serine protease(s) in hamster vessels, inducing AT1-receptor-mediated vasoconstriction. Biochemical data supported a role for chymase in the alternative pathway.
Infection of epithelial cells by pathogenic neisseriae reduces the levels of multiple lysosomal constituents.	Members of our group reported recently that neisseria infection of human epithelial cells results in accelerated degradation of the major lysosomal integral membrane protein LAMP1 and that this is due to hydrolysis of this glycoprotein at its immunoglobulin A1 (IgA1)-like hinge by the neisseria type 2 IgA1 protease (L. Lin et al., Mol. Microbiol. 24:1083-1094, 1997). We also reported that the IgA1 protease plays a major role in the ability of the pathogenic neisseriae to survive within epithelial cells and hypothesized that this is due to alteration of lysosomes as a result of protease-mediated LAMP1 degradation. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that neisseria infection leads to multiple changes in lysosomes. Here, we report that neisseria infection also reduces the levels of three other lysosomal markers: LAMP2, lysosomal acid phosphatase (LAP), and CD63. In contrast, neither the epidermal growth factor receptor level nor the beta-tubulin level is affected. A detailed examination of LAMP2 indicated that the reduced LAMP2 levels are not the result of an altered biosynthetic rate or of cleavage by the IgA1 protease. Nevertheless, the protease plays a role in reducing LAMP2 and LAP activity levels, as these are partially restored in cells infected with an iga mutant. We conclude that neisseria infection results in multiple changes to the lysosomes of infected epithelial cells and that these changes are likely an indirect result of IgA1 protease-mediated cleavage of LAMP1.
Demonstration of exosite I-dependent interactions of thrombin with human factor V and factor Va involving the factor Va heavy chain: analysis by affinity chromatography employing a novel method for active-site-selective immobilization of serine proteinases.	In an essential step of blood coagulation, factor V is proteolytically processed by thrombin to generate the activated protein cofactor, factor Va, and to release the activation fragments E and C1. For the identification and characterization of sites of thrombin binding to factor V and its activation products, a new method was developed for immobilizing thrombin and other serine proteinases specifically (>/=92%) through their active sites and used in affinity chromatography studies of the interactions. Interactions of factor V with exosite I of thrombin were shown to regulate the factor V activation pathway from the 93% +/- 12% inhibition of the rate of activation correlated with specific binding of hirudin54-65 to this exosite. Chromatography of factor V on active-site-immobilized thrombin showed only a weak interaction, while the factor Va heterodimer bound specifically and with apparently higher affinity, in an interaction that was prevented by hirudin54-65. The heavy chain of subunit-dissociated factor Va bound to immobilized thrombin, while the light-chain subunit and fragment E had no detectable affinity. These results demonstrate a previously undescribed, exosite I-dependent interaction of thrombin with factor Va that occurs through the factor Va heavy chain. They support the further conclusion that similar exosite I-dependent binding of thrombin to the heavy-chain region of factor V contributes to recognition of factor V as a specific thrombin substrate and thereby regulates proteolytic activation of the protein cofactor.
Characterization of plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 mutants containing the P13 to P10 region of ovalbumin or antithrombin III: evidence that the P13 residue contributes significantly to the active to substrate transition.	The serpin plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 (PAI-1) can occur, in vitro, in both an inhibitory and a non-inhibitory but cleavable substrate form. In the present study, we have evaluated the effect of replacing the P13 to P10 region of PAI-1 (Val-Ala-Ser-Ser), with the P13 to P10 region of either the non-inhibitory serpin ovalbumin (Glu-Val-Val-Gly; PAI-1-ovalbumin) or the inhibitory serpin antithrombin III (Glu-Ala-Ala-Ala; PAI-1-antithrombin III). In addition, we have replaced Val at position P13 with Glu (PAI-1-P13 (Val-->Glu)). Wild-type (wt) PAI-1 revealed specific activities of 80+/-9% (mean+/-S.D., n=4) of the theoretical maximum value towards t-PA. PAI-1-ovalbumin, PAI-1-antithrombin III and PAI-1-P13 (Val-->Glu) revealed specific activities of 86+/-15%, 77+/-11%, and 100+/-30% respectively, towards t-PA and similar inhibitory properties towards u-PA. Surprisingly, upon inactivation at 37 degreesC, the active conformation of the PAI-1 mutants converted partly into a substrate conformation (i.e. 52+/-5.2%, 55+/-8.2% and 46+/-4.6% for PAI-1-ovalbumin, PAI-1-antithrombin III and PAI-1-P13 (Val-->Glu), respectively) and partly into a latent conformation. This is in contrast to active wtPAI-1 which, as expected, is converted to the latent conformation (i.e. 86+/-1.0%). In conclusion, even though replacement of the P13 to P10 region of PAI-1 by the corresponding region of a non-inhibitory serpin or of an inhibitory serpin, does not directly affect its inhibitory properties, the nature of the amino acids in this region and of P13 in particular, contributes to its conformational transitions.
Interaction of second and third domains of Japanese quail ovomucoid with ten mammalian trypsins.	Second and third domains were prepared from Japanese quail ovomucoid and association equilibrium constants, Kas, were measured at 25 degreesC and pH 8 for these domains with trypsins from ten mammalian species: cat, cow, dog, guinea pig, hog, horse, man, rabbit, rat, and sheep. The values ranged from 108 M-1 to 1010 M-1 for the second domain-trypsin associations and from 106 M-1 to 108 M-1 for the third domain-trypsin associations. Changes in Ka values for the interactions between the trypsins and each domain are attributed to slight changes in surface conformation caused by the residue changes in the inhibitor-binding region other than the S1 pocket of the trypsin species. The representative of such residue changes is assumed to be the one observed at residue 217 of trypsin molecule. Concerning each trypsin, the Ka value with the second domain was always higher than that with the third domain. However, the ratios between the two equilibrium constants varied from 3 to 60 depending upon trypsin species. This means that amino acid changes in enzyme-contact residues other than the P1 site of the Kazal-type inhibitor can make it possible to recognize even a slight difference in inhibitor-binding surface among the enzymes with the same S1 pocket and highly similar overall three-dimensional structure.
Site-directed mutagenesis of surfactant protein A reveals dissociation of lipid aggregation and lipid uptake by alveolar type II cells.	Surfactant protein A (SP-A) binds to dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC) and induces phospholipid vesicle aggregation. It also regulates the uptake and secretion of surfactant lipids by alveolar type II cells. We introduced the single mutations Glu195-->Gln (rE195Q), Lys201-->Ala (rK201A) and Lys203-->Ala (rK203A) for rat SP-A, Arg199-->Ala (hR199A) and Lys201-->Ala (hK201A) for human SP-A, and the triple mutations Arg197, Lys201 and Lys203-->Ala (rR197A/K201A/K203A) for rat SP-A, into cDNAs for SP-A, and expressed the recombinant proteins using baculovirus vectors. All recombinant proteins avidly bound to DPPC liposomes. rE195Q, rK201A, rK203A, hR199A and hK201A function with activity comparable to wild type SP-A. Although rR197A/K201A/K203A was a potent inducer of phospholipid vesicle aggregation, it failed to stimulate lipid uptake. rR197A/K201A/K203A was a weak inhibitor for lipid secretion and did not competed with rat [125I]SP-A for receptor occupancy. From these results, we conclude that Lys201 and Lys203 of rat SP-A, and Arg199 and Lys201 of human SP-A are not individually critical for the interaction with lipids and type II cells, and that Glu195 of rat SP-A can be replaced with Gln without loss of SP-A functions. This study also demonstrates that the SP-A-mediated lipid uptake is not directly correlated with phospholipid vesicle aggregation, and that specific interactions of SP-A with type II cells are involved in the lipid uptake process.
Blockade of neuropsin, a serine protease, ameliorates kindling epilepsy.	The behavioural and electrographical abnormalities associated with seizures in epileptic (kindled) mice correspond with those of human epilepsy. In kindled mice, neuropsin was markedly increased in the hippocampus and cerebral cortices. A single intraventricular injection of monoclonal antibodies specific to neuropsin reduced or eliminated the epileptic pattern noted on electroencephalograms and, as a result markedly inhibited the progression of kindling. Therefore, neuropsin appears to be a key protein controlling pathogenic events in the hippocampus, and thus neuropsin inhibitors might be useful for treatment of epilepsy.
Identification of biotinylation sites on proteins by selective retrieval of 2-iminobiotinylated peptides from proteolytic peptide mixtures: localization of the accessible lysine residues on the photosystem I subunits PsaD and PsaE.	An affinity purification technique was established that allows the selective isolation of 2-iminobiotinylated peptides from proteolytic digest of proteins in order to identify surface-exposed protein domains. Serving as model systems, two photosystem I subunits, PsaD and PsaE from the cyanobacterium Synechococcus elongatus, were overexpressed in Escherichia coli, modified in vitrowith NHS-2-iminobiotin which incorporates 2-iminobiotin at exposed amino groups, and subjected to proteolytic digestion by Glu-C and Arg-C protease, respectively. 2-Iminobiotin-containing proteolytic peptides were subsequently extracted from the proteolytic digests using avidin agarose in a batch procedure and the extracted peptides were separated by HPLC chromatography. The analysis of the peptide maps by electrospray ionization mass spectrometry or N-terminal sequencing showed that avidin-extracted peptide fractions contain almost exclusively 2-iminobiotinylated proteolytic fragments of PsaE or PsaD. No unmodified peptides of PsaD or PsaE were detected. According to this analysis, PsaE is accessible to biotinylation at all of its 7 lysine residues and at its N-terminus. Similarly, all 11 lysine residues of PsaD can be biotinylated and only the N-terminus of PsaD is not accessible.
Neuronal nitric oxide synthase-membrane phospholipid interactions.	Most of the neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) is present in the particulate fraction of tissue extracts. Here, we show that the calmodulin (CaM)-binding domain of nNOS interacts with anionic phospholipid vesicles but not with neutral ones. Identification of residues in the CaM-binding domain of nNOS as the key domain for the interaction is also documented. Recombinant wild-type nNOS was found to associate with phosphatidylserine (PS) or phosphatidic acid (PA) but not with phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) or phosphatidylcholine (PC), indicating that nNOS-phospholipid binding requires an electrostatic interaction. A synthetic peptide corresponding to residues 732-754 blocked the interaction of nNOS with PS. Furthermore, a purified fusion protein containing residues 724-755 interacted with PS in a competitive fashion with CaM. Inactive nNOS lacking CaM-binding ability, generated by mutation of (Lys732LysLeu) to (Asp732AspGlu) (Watanabe, Y., Hu, Y., and Hidaka, H., FEBS Lett. 403, 75-78, 1997) did not interact with PS. Preincubation of nNOS with PS protected subsequent limited proteolysis of the synthase by Staphylococcus aureus V8 protease, probably as a result of conformational changes in the protein. Wild-type nNOS was found almost entirely in the membrane fraction of Sf9 cells, whereas inactive nNOS was also found in cytosolic fraction in Sf9 cells expressing the mutant enzyme. These results demonstrate that the mutated hydrophobic/basic amino acid cluster in nNOS sequence, Lys732LysLeu, is essential for nNOS-PS and nNOS-CaM interactions.
Dendritic mast cells in the human nasal mucosa.	Human mast cells can be divided into two subtypes: MCTC cells, which contain tryptase and chymase, and MCT cells, which contain tryptase only. Herein we have used a combination of histamine, tryptase and chymase immunohistochemistry as a novel approach to the study of mast cells. Using this technique, we have discovered a new type of MCTC mast cell in biopsies of the nasal mucosa from healthy subjects and allergic patients. These mast cells have histamine-positive, dendrite-like cellular processes. Some cells have only one slender process, whereas other cells have several long processes extending from different parts of the cell body. Some of the cellular processes divide into two or three terminal branches, and histamine is sometimes found in small swellings along the course of the processes. Our findings contribute new aspects to the concept of mast cell heterogeneity. Thus, human mast cells may vary not only with respect to mediator content, but also with respect to gross morphologic features such as the presence of dendrite-like cellular processes. The recognition of this extreme heterogeneity may be an important step toward a better understanding of mast cell biology.
Effects of alkaline protease or restrictocin deficient mutants of Aspergillus fumigatus on human polymorphonuclear leukocytes.	Several substances including proteases and restrictocin have been suggested as candidates for virulence determinants in invasive pulmonary aspergillosis. However, the roles of such substances are not well understood. This study compared the in vitro suppressive effects of Aspergillus fumigatus culture filtrates (ACFs), on the functions of human polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNLs), the principal cells in the host defence against aspergillus hyphae, from a clinically isolated wild-type and isogenic mutant strains which lack production of elastolytic alkaline protease (Alp) and/or restrictocin. ACFs were obtained by culturing conidia of each strain in Medium- 199 at 37 degrees C for 5 days. ACFs of the wild-type significantly (p<0.01) suppressed chemotaxis, superoxide anion (O2-) release and PMNL-mediated hyphal damage, compared with the control (Medium-199). ACFs of the mutant strains that lack Alp or restrictocin significantly (p<0.01) suppressed chemotaxis and O2(-)-release, but did not suppress hyphal damage, compared with the control. The wild-type significantly (p<0.01) suppressed chemotaxis of PMNLs compared with the mutant strains lacking Alp or restrictocin, whereas there were no significant differences in suppression of O2(-)-release and hyphal damage by PMNLs. ACF of a mutant strain that lacks both Alp and restrictocin had much less activity, but significantly (p<0.01) suppressed chemotaxis of PMNLs compared with the control. In conclusion, alkaline protease and restrictocin may play roles in the suppressive effect of Aspergillus fumigatus culture filtrates on the functions of human polymorphonuclear leukocytes. Other antiphagocytic substances produced by Aspergillus fumigatus remain to be identified.
Pro-caspase-3 is a major physiologic target of caspase-8.	The apoptotic signal triggered by ligation of members of the death receptor family is promoted by sequential activation of caspase zymogens. We show here that in a purified system, the initiator caspases-8 and -10 directly process the executioner pro-caspase-3 with activation rates (kcat/Km) of 8.7 x 10(5) and 2.8 x 10(5) M-1 s-1, respectively. These rates are of sufficient magnitude to indicate direct processing in vivo. Differentially processed forms of caspase-3 that accumulate during its activation have similar rates of activation, activities, and specificities. The pattern and rate of caspase-8 induced activation of pro-caspase-3 in cytosolic extracts was the same as in a purified system. Moreover, immunodepletion of a putative intermediary in the pathway to activation, pro-caspase-9, was without consequence. Taken together these data demonstrate that the initiator caspase-8 can directly activate pro-caspase-3 without the requirement for an accelerator. The in vitro data thus help to deconvolute previous in vivo transfection studies which have debated the role of a direct versus indirect transmission of the apoptotic signal generated by ligation of death receptors.
Efficiency of the pTF-FC2 pas poison-antidote stability system in Escherichia coli is affected by the host strain, and antidote degradation requires the lon protease.	The stabilization of a test plasmid by the proteic, poison-antidote plasmid addiction system (pas) of plasmid pTF-FC2 was host strain dependent, with a 100-fold increase in stability in Escherichia coli CSH50, a 2.5-fold increase in E. coli JM105, and no detectable stabilization in E. coli strains JM107 and JM109. The lethality of the PasB toxin was far higher in the E. coli strains in which the pas was most effective. Models for the way in which poison-antidote systems stabilize plasmids require that the antidote have a much higher rate of turnover than that of the toxin. A decrease in host cell death following plasmid loss from an E. coli lon mutant and a decrease in plasmid stability suggested that the Lon protease plays a role in the rate of turnover of PasA antidote.
Extracellular proteolytic enzymes of filamentous fungi.	This review involves generalized data on extracellular proteases of filamentous fungi. General characteristics of secreted proteases and their classification are considered. Analysis of the data available revealed that fungi secrete only serine, aspartyl, and metalloproteases. Nothing is known about secretion of cysteine proteases; some available data do not have clear experimental evidence. Physicochemical and kinetic properties of the most typical extracellular proteases of different classes and families are discussed in detail. Special attention is focused in the review on regulation of synthesis of extracellular proteases and participation of the secreted proteases of pathogenic fungi in the infection process in animals, insects, or plants.
The role of the ClpA chaperone in proteolysis by ClpAP.	ClpA, a member of the Clp/Hsp100 family of ATPases, is a molecular chaperone and, in combination with a proteolytic component ClpP, participates in ATP-dependent proteolysis. We investigated the role of ClpA in protein degradation by ClpAP by dissociating the reaction into several discrete steps. In the assembly step, ClpA-ClpP-substrate complexes assemble either by ClpA-substrate complexes interacting with ClpP or by ClpA-ClpP complexes interacting with substrate; ClpP in the absence of ClpA is unable to bind substrates. Assembly requires ATP binding but not hydrolysis. We discovered that ClpA translocates substrates from their binding sites on ClpA to ClpP. The translocation step specifically requires ATP; nonhydrolyzable ATP analogs are ineffective. Only proteins that are degraded by ClpAP are translocated. Characterization of the degradation step showed that substrates can be degraded in a single round of ClpA-ClpP-substrate binding followed by ATP hydrolysis. The products generated are indistinguishable from steady-state products. Taken together, our results suggest that ClpA, through its interaction with both the substrate and ClpP, acts as a gatekeeper, actively translocating specific substrates into the proteolytic chamber of ClpP where degradation occurs. As multicomponent ATP-dependent proteases are widespread in nature and share structural similarities, these findings may provide a general mechanism for regulation of substrate import into the proteolytic chamber.
Human milk lactoferrin inactivates two putative colonization factors expressed by Haemophilus influenzae.	Haemophilus influenzae is a major cause of otitis media and other respiratory tract disease in children. The pathogenesis of disease begins with colonization of the upper respiratory mucosa, a process that involves evasion of local immune mechanisms and adherence to epithelial cells. Several studies have demonstrated that human milk is protective against H. influenzae colonization and disease. In the present study, we examined the effect of human milk on the H. influenzae IgA1 protease and Hap adhesin, two autotransported proteins that are presumed to facilitate colonization. Our results demonstrated that human milk lactoferrin efficiently extracted the IgA1 protease preprotein from the bacterial outer membrane. In addition, lactoferrin specifically degraded the Hap adhesin and abolished Hap-mediated adherence. Extraction of IgA1 protease and degradation of Hap were localized to the N-lobe of the bilobed lactoferrin molecule and were inhibited by serine protease inhibitors, suggesting that the lactoferrin N-lobe may contain serine protease activity. Additional experiments revealed no effect of lactoferrin on the H. influenzae P2, P5, and P6 outer-membrane proteins, which are distinguished from IgA1 protease and Hap by the lack of an N-terminal passenger domain or an extracellular linker region. These results suggest that human milk lactoferrin may attenuate the pathogenic potential of H. influenzae by selectively inactivating IgA1 protease and Hap, thereby interfering with colonization. Future studies should examine the therapeutic potential of lactoferrin, perhaps as a supplement in infant formulas.
Functional characterization of Kunitz domains in hepatocyte growth factor activator inhibitor type 2.	Hepatocyte growth factor activator inhibitor type 2 (HAI-2) was identified as a potent inhibitor of hepatocyte growth factor activator (HGF activator). The primary translation product of HAI-2 contains two Kunitz domains. To characterize their function, we introduced a point mutation into the reactive site of each Kunitz domain, and assayed the mutants for their HGF activator inhibitory activity. A point mutation in the COOH-terminal Kunitz domain did not affect the activity of HAI-2, whereas a point mutation in the NH2-terminal Kunitz domain markedly reduced the activity. These results suggest that the NH2-terminal Kunitz domain is mainly responsible for the HGF activator inhibitory activity of HAI-2.
Multifunctional potential of the plasminogen activation system in tumor invasion and metastasis (review).	Tumor cell migration and invasion into the surrounding tissue depend on the invasive capacity of cells leading to the loosening of cell-cell and cell-substratum contacts via cell surface associated proteolytic enzyme systems. Plasmin is one of the enzymes involved in these complex events. It is generated by the cleavage of the proenzyme plasminogen upon the action of the urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA). uPA is synthesized and secreted by tumor cells and normal cells and interacts with a specific cell surface receptor (uPAR) thereby focalizing enzymatic activity to the cell surface. The activity of uPA is controlled by plasminogen activator inhibitors type-1 and type-2. A strong statistically independent prognostic impact has been attributed to uPA and its inhibitor PAI-1 in a variety of malignancies. Besides its proteolytic activity, uPA in concert with uPAR exert biological effects characteristic for molecules with signal transducing properties including chemotaxis, migration/invasion, adhesion, and mitogenesis.
Efficient nuclear targeting of granzyme B and the nuclear consequences of apoptosis induced by granzyme B and perforin are caspase-dependent, but cell death is caspase-independent.	The secretory lysosomes of cytolytic lymphocytes house the principal apoptotic molecules for eliminating virus-infected cells: a membranolytic agent, perforin, and the serine protease, granzyme B. Perforin allows granzyme B access to cytosolic and nuclear substrates that, when cleaved, result in the characteristic apoptotic phenotype. Key among these substrates is a family of cytoplasmic caspases that mediate cell suicide. We have examined the caspase dependence of several nuclear and cytoplasmic parameters of apoptosis induced by purified perforin and granzyme B. Cell membrane leakage in response to perforin and granzyme B was independent of caspase activation; however, nuclear events such as DNA fragmentation and nuclear condensation and disintegration were abolished by the broad-acting caspase inhibitor, z-VAD-fmk. Despite being spared from nuclear damage, z-VAD-fmk-treated cells exposed to both cytotoxins uniformly died when they were re-cultured, while cells exposed to perforin or granzyme alone survived and proliferated as readily as untreated cells. Pretreatment of cells with z-VAD-fmk also resulted in reduced granzyme B nuclear uptake following addition of perforin; however, its uptake into the cytoplasm in the absence of perforin was unaffected. We conclude that cell death in response to perforin and granzyme B does not require caspase activation and still proceeds efficiently through non-nuclear pathways when nuclear substrate cleavage is inhibited.
Molecular cloning and identification of murine caspase-8.	Several caspases are mediators of apoptotic cell death. We describe a novel murine member of this growing protein family. Based on homology and especially on the substrate specificity, this new procaspase is identified as the murine counterpart of human procaspase-8. The protein exhibits a rather low similarity (76%) and identity (70%) to human procaspase-8. Procaspase-8 mRNA is expressed in all adult mouse tissues examined, the highest levels being reached in kidney, liver and lung. Procaspase-8 mRNA expression is highest in seven-day old embryos, but also during later stages of development the expression was fairly high. Both human and murine procaspase-8 are very weak substrates for granzyme B as compared to procaspase-3. Murine procaspases-1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 11/4 and 12 are processed by recombinant murine caspase-8, suggesting a key role in the procaspase activation cascade. In addition, murine caspase-8 induced cell death that was inhibited both by cytokine response modifier A and p35. In vitro experiments demonstrated that p35 inhibits caspase-8 directly.
A novel mechanism for bradykinin production at inflammatory sites. Diverse effects of a mixture of neutrophil elastase and mast cell tryptase versus tissue and plasma kallikreins on native and oxidized kininogens.	Coprocessing of kininogens by a mixture of human mast cell tryptase and neutrophil elastase was explored as a potential substitute for the kallikrein-dependent pathway for kinin generation during inflammation. Tryptase easily excised bradykinin from the synthetic heptadecapeptide, ISLMKRPPGFSPFRSSR, but was unable to produce significant amounts of kinin by proteolysis of kininogens. However, a mixture of tryptase and elastase released bradykinin from each protein with a yield comparable to that of human plasma kallikrein. Significantly, neither plasma nor tissue kallikrein was able to effectively process N-chlorosuccinimide-oxidized high molecular weight kininogen, an effect attributed to the oxidation of a methionine residue upstream from the N terminus of the kinin domain. In support of these results the model heptadecapetide, ISL(MO)KRPPGFSPFRSSR, was also resistant to hydrolysis by either kallikrein. In contrast, the release of bradykinin from oxidized peptide or protein substrates by the tryptase/elastase mixture was not altered. Because kininogen modification may occur at inflammatory sites, as a result of the oxidative burst of recruited neutrophils and macrophages, these results suggest an alternative pathway for kinin production and the necessity for the novel utilization of two specific proteinases known to be released from these cells during inflammatory episodes.
Insulin-like growth factor binding protein-5 proteolytic activity in ovine articular chondrocyte culture.	We have previously demonstrated that ovine articular chondrocytes synthesise and release insulin-like growth factor binding protein-5 (IGFBP-5) which subsequently undergoes proteolysis in the tissue culture medium. The IGFBP-5 proteolytic activity has now been characterised and its substrate specificity analysed using recombinant IGFBP-5 and purified chondrocyte-derived IGFBPs. Iodinated human recombinant IGFBP-5 was incubated with chondrocyte culture or conditioned medium in the presence or absence of various inhibitors. Serine protease inhibitors aprotinin and heparin effectively inhibited the breakdown of IGFBP-5. Furthermore, insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) but not its structural analogues with reduced affinity for IGFBP-5, was also able to partially protect IGFBP-5 from degradation indicating that the association of IGF with the binding protein was required for the inhibition of the proteolytic activity. The inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1 did not have any effect on IGFBP-5 proteolysis. The proteolytic activity appears to be IGFBP-5-specific since the incubation of chondrocyte-derived IGFBPs with chondrocyte conditioned medium resulted in the loss of IGFBP-5 while the levels of the other two IGFBPs (IGFBP-2 and a 24 kDa IGFBP) remained unchanged. In conclusion, we show that IGFBP-5 is specifically cleaved by a serine protease released by primary cultures of ovine articular chondrocytes and also demonstrate the ability of IGF-I to inhibit the proteolytic activity both in cell culture and in cell-free conditions.
Contribution of mast cells to the tubulointerstitial lesions in IgA nephritis.	Mast cells have never been extensively investigated in renal disease, particularly glomerulonephritis. Recent improvements in monoclonal antibody production to mast cell specific enzymes have made it possible to study mast cells in tissues more accurately and easily. Mast cells have been found to secrete basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) in human pulmonary fibrosis.
T-cell-rich large-B-cell lymphomas contain non-activated CD8+ cytolytic T cells, show increased tumor cell apoptosis, and have lower Bcl-2 expression than diffuse large-B-cell lymphomas.	The factor(s) responsible for the reduced B cell number and increased T cell infiltrate in T-cell-rich large-B-cell lymphomas (TCRBCLs) have not been well characterized. We studied 18 TCRBCLs and 12 diffuse large-B-cell lymphomas (DLBCLs) to compare the 1) predominant T cell subpopulation(s), 2) expression of cytotoxic granule proteins (TIA-1 and granzyme B), 3) level of tumor cell apoptosis (Apoptag system, Oncor, Gaithersburg, MD), and 4) expression of Ki-67 (Mib-1) and apoptosis-related proteins (fas (CD95), bcl-2, and p53). T cells in TCRBCLs and DLBCLs were predominantly CD8+ T cells expressing alphabeta T-cell receptors and TIA-1 (16 of 18 TCRBCLs with >50% TIA-1+ small lymphocytes) but lacking granzyme B (16 of 18 TCRBCLs with <25% granzyme B+ small lymphocytes). Scattered apoptotic tumor cells (confirmed with CD20 co-labeling) were present in 15 of 18 TCRBCLs, with 14 of 15 cases having <10% apoptotic cells. No apoptotic cells were seen in 12 of 12 DLBCLs. In 16 of 16 immunoreactive TCRBCLs, <25% tumor cells were bcl-2+, whereas 6 of 12 DLBCLs had >50% bcl-2+ tumor cells. CD95 (fas) expression was also lower, with 3 of 18 (16.7%) TCRBCLs versus 4 of 12 (33%) DLBCLs having >25% CD95+ tumor cells. TCRBCLs and DLBCLs had similar levels of p53 and Ki-67 (Mib-1) expression. Thus, T cells in TCRBCLs are non-activated cytotoxic T lymphocytes (TIA-1+, granzyme B-). Tumor cell apoptosis (perhaps cytotoxic T cell mediated) may partly account for the decreased number of large (neoplastic) B cells in TCRBCLs, but other factors (ie, decreased bcl-2 expression) may also be needed.
Evidence for in vivo mitosis by granule-containing mast cells from canine mastocytomas.	Mast cell accumulations are generally considered to arise almost exclusively from the recruitment of non-granulated, bone-marrow-derived, precursor cells, with the stem cell factor (SCF) reported to play a crucial role in the growth, development and maturation of granulated mast cells within specific tissue sites. In this study dog mastocytoma specimens have been examined by both immunohistochemical and ultrastructural techniques, to demonstrate that fully granulated mast cells are capable of mitotic activity. Observations showing the formation of mitotic spindles, chromosome separation and cytokinesis all support the concept that granulated mast cells are capable of proliferative activity. The ability of mature granulated mast cells to replicate provides an alternative process for local increases in mast cell numbers, at least in canine mast cell tumours. Such observations suggest the possibility that normal or neoplastic human mast cells, fully granulated, have the potential to proliferate in specific tissue sites.
Distribution of intrahepatic mast cells in various hepatobiliary disorders. An immunohistochemical study.	There is evidence that mast cells are involved in a number of pathophysiological processes. The significance of mast cells in hepatic fibrosis was examined in 28 patients with histologically normal livers, 34 with acute liver diseases, 51 with chronic liver diseases, and 59 with cholestatic biliary diseases, using immunostaining of the mast cell-specific proteinase, tryptase. Mast cells that were positive for tryptase and for chymase were significantly increased in frequency in fibrotic portal tracts and fibrous septa, particularly in cholestatic/biliary diseases. Mast cells were also increased in frequency around the fibrotic septal and intrahepatic large bile ducts and peribiliary glands of biliary diseases. However, they were less common or even rare in the sclerotic bile ducts and in scarred portal or septal fibrosis. More than half of these more numerous mast cells were positive for histamine, and some were also positive for basic fibroblast growth factor. These two substances were detectable by immunoelectron microscopic in the cytoplasmic granules of mast cells. In contrast, mast cell numbers were not significantly increased in acute viral or drug-induced hepatitis, or in zones 2 and 3 of the hepatic acinus with respect to pericellular and perivenular fibrosis in chronic liver diseases. These findings suggest that mast cells increase in number in cholestatic/biliary diseases, and to a lesser degree in chronic liver diseases, and are involved in the active fibrous enlargement of portal tract and fibrous septa formation and also in the fibrosis of the intrahepatic bile ducts as they display fibrosis-promoting factors such as tryptase, fibroblast growth factor and histamine.
Serpin=serine protease-like complexes within neurofilament conglomerates of motoneurons in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.	Neurofilamentous conglomerates (NfCg), as axonal spheroids or conglomerates in motoneurons, are the histopathologic hallmarks for early stages of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). We hypothesize that NfCg may be formed by post-translational modifications of altered Nf proteins that include: (1) hyperphosphorylation, (2) glycosylation (or glycoxidation), (3) nitration, (4) ubiquitination and/or (5) crosslinking by the Ca++-dependent transglutaminase (TGase). These, as well as other changes, are predicted to be initiated or accentuated by oxidative damage. The damaged Nf proteins then activate cascades of intracellular protein degradation which include ATP-dependent ubiquitin/proteasome proteolysis. Other proteolytic systems, either Ca++-dependent or independent, may also be activated, such as serine and cysteine protease systems. These enzymes, either lysosomal or non-lysosomal may also participate in the degradation of damaged Nf proteins being balanced by their cognate inhibitors. Protein complexes formed by these protease=inhibitor systems, along with damaged Nf proteins, may accumulate within the cell bodies as neuronal inclusions, since a number of intracellular inclusions are found in motor neurons in ALS. In the current study, we investigated the involvement of serine proteases and their serpins in NfCg formation. Pairs of three serine proteases (trypsin, chymotrypsin and thrombin) and their cognate serpins (alpha1-anti-trypsin, alpha1-anti-chymotrypsin, and protease nexin I) were probed in motoneurons with their antibodies for both NfCg and inclusions. Positive immunoreactivities for all serine proteases and their cognate serpins support the contention that the imbalance of serine proteases and internalized serpins may have a role in formation of NfCg and inclusions, and hence, the pathogenesis of ALS.
Proteinase inhibitor 6 (PI-6) expression in human skin: induction of PI-6 and a PI-6/proteinase complex during keratinocyte differentiation.	Proteinase inhibitor 6 (PI-6) is a 42-kDa intracellular protein present in epithelial cells and endothelial cells. It is capable of inhibiting a number of serine proteinases, including trypsin and chymotrypsin. In this study we examined PI-6 expression in human skin and its primary cell type, the keratinocyte. By immunohistochemical analysis, PI-6 staining is absent from the basal cells, weak in the spinous layer, and strongest in the granulosa layer of human epidermis. Immunoblotting of cultured primary keratinocytes revealed that PI-6 production increases 24-fold on differentiation. Analysis of an immortalized keratinocyte cell line, HaCat, showed a 5-fold increase in PI-6 mRNA and a 7-fold increase in PI-6 protein upon differentiation, and indirect immunofluorescence revealed that this is due to an increase in the number of differentiated cells expressing high levels of PI-6. Of particular interest is the appearance of a preformed complex between PI-6 and an endogenous serine proteinase in differentiating HaCat cells, which was detected by a monoclonal antibody demonstrated to preferentially recognize PI-6 in complex with a proteinase. This identification of a PI-6/proteinase complex is the first example of a serpin bound to a proteinase in keratinocytes. We postulate that a physiological role of PI-6 is to regulate a serine proteinase associated with keratinocyte differentiation.
Disruption of PMR1, encoding a Ca2+-ATPase homolog in Yarrowia lipolytica, affects secretion and processing of homologous and heterologous proteins.	The Yarrowia lipolytica PMR1 gene (YlPMR1) is a Saccharomyces cerevisiae PMR1 homolog which encodes a putative secretory pathway Ca2+-ATPase. In this study, we investigated the effects of a YlPMR1 disruption on the processing and secretion of native and foreign proteins in Y. lipolytica and found variable responses by the YlPMR1-disrupted mutant depending on the protein. The secretion of 32-kDa mature alkaline extracellular protease (AEP) was dramatically decreased, and incompletely processed precursors were observed in the YlPMR1-disrupted mutant. A 36- and a 52-kDa premature AEP were secreted, and an intracellular 52-kDa premature AEP was also detected. The acid extracellular protease activity of the YlPMR1-disrupted mutant was increased by 60% compared to that of the wild-type strain. The inhibitory effect of mutations in secretory pathway Ca2+-ATPase genes on the secretion of rice alpha-amylase was also observed in the Y. lipolytica and S. cerevisiae PMR1-disrupted mutants. Unlike rice alpha-amylase, the secretion of Trichoderma reesei endoglucanase I (EGI) was not influenced by the YlPMR1 disruption. However, the secreted EGI from the YlPMR1-disrupted mutant had different characteristics than that of the control. While wild-type cells secreted the hyperglycosylated form of EGI, hyperglycosylation was completely absent in the YlPMR1-disrupted mutant. Our results indicate that the effects of the YlPMR1 disruption as manifested by the phenotypic response depend on the characteristics of the reporter protein in the recombinant yeast strain evaluated.
Identification of two binding domains, one for peptidoglycan and another for a secondary cell wall polymer, on the N-terminal part of the S-layer protein SbsB from Bacillus stearothermophilus PV72/p2.	First studies on the structure-function relationship of the S-layer protein from B. stearothermophilus PV72/p2 revealed the coexistence of two binding domains on its N-terminal part, one for peptidoglycan and another for a secondary cell wall polymer (SCWP). The peptidoglycan binding domain is located between amino acids 1 to 138 of the mature S-layer protein comprising a typical S-layer homologous domain. The SCWP binding domain lies between amino acids 240 to 331 and possesses a high serine plus glycine content.
Drosophila Rrp1 domain structure as defined by limited proteolysis and biophysical analyses.	Drosophila Rrp1 is a DNA repair nuclease whose C-terminal region shares extensive homology with Escherichia coli exonuclease III, has nuclease activity, and provides resistance to oxidative and alkylating agents in repair-deficient E. coli strains. The N-terminal 421 amino acid region of Rrp1, which binds and renatures homologous single-stranded DNA, does not share homology with any known protein. Proteolysis by endoproteinase Glu-C (protease V8) reduces the Rrp1 protein to a single, cleavage-resistant peptide. The peptide (referred to as Rrp1-C274) begins with the sequence TKTTV, corresponding to cleavage between Glu-405 and Thr-406 of Rrp1. We determined that nuclease activity is intrinsic to Rrp1-C274 although altered when compared with Rrp1; 3'-exonuclease activity is reduced 210-fold, 3'-phosphodiesterase activity is reduced 6.8-fold, and no difference in apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease activity is observed. Rrp1 and Rrp1-C274 are both monomers with frictional coefficients of 2.2 and 1.4, respectively. Circular dichroism results indicate that Rrp1-C274 is predominantly alpha-helical, while the N-terminal 399 amino acids is predominantly random coil. These results suggest that Rrp1 may have a bipartite structural organization; a highly organized, globular C-terminal domain; and an asymmetric, protease-sensitive random coil-enriched N-terminal region. A shape model for this bipartite structure is proposed and discussed.
Granzyme B mimics apical caspases. Description of a unified pathway for trans-activation of executioner caspase-3 and -7.	Granzyme B (GrB) is predicted to trigger apoptosis by activating preferred caspases, but the zymogens that are directly processed by the granzyme and the requirements for these interactions remain unclarified. We examined this dilemma by comparing the kinetics and pattern of GrB-mediated activation of the executioner caspase-7 in vitro and in vivo. GrB rapidly activates procaspase-7 in vitro by cleaving between the large and small subunits leaving the propeptide intact. During GrB-mediated apoptosis, the caspase-7 propeptide is removed and cleavage occurs between the subunits. Strikingly, caspase-7 is unprocessed in caspase-3-deficient MCF-7 cells exposed to GrB but is rapidly activated when the cells are solubilized. Transfection with caspase-3 restores the removal of the caspase-7 propeptide and the capacity of GrB to subsequently activate the caspase. The data suggest that GrB activates caspase-3, which then removes the propeptide of caspase-7 allowing activation by GrB. Thus GrB initiates the death pathway by processing the accessible caspase-3, and the caspase-7 propeptide regulates trans-activation of the zymogen by granzyme. As a consequence, two proteases, caspase-3 and GrB, are required to activate procaspase-7.
Identification of proteins whose amounts are altered by mutation in the pgsA gene of Escherichia coli.	We identified proteins whose amounts were altered in an Escherichia coli pgsA3 mutant lacking the potential to synthesize phosphatidylglycerolphosphate, a precursor of phosphatidylglycerol. Proteins whose amounts were increased in the mutant were protease Do, periplasmic oligopeptide-binding protein, tryptophanase, and an unidentified protein, while the decreased one was flagellin. Transformation of the mutant with a plasmid containing the wild type pgsA gene complemented the phenotype, indicating that the pgsA3 mutation is responsible for the phenotype.
Chemistry of the "molecular trap" of protease-catalyzed splicing reaction of complementary segments of alpha-subunit of hemoglobin A.	The complementary fragments of human Hb alpha, alpha1-30, and alpha31-141 are spliced together by V8 protease in the presence of 30% n-propanol to generate the full-length molecule (Hb alpha-semisynthetic reaction). Unlike the other protease-catalyzed protein/peptide splicing reactions of fragment complementing systems, the enzymic condensation of nonassociating segments of Hb alpha is facilitated by the organic cosolvent induced alpha-helical conformation of product acting as the "molecular trap" of the splicing reaction. The segments alpha24-30 and alpha31-40 are the shortest complementary segments that can be spliced by V8 protease. In the present study, the chemistry of the contiguous segment (product) alpha24-40 has been manipulated by engineering the amino acid replacements to the positions alpha27 and alpha31 to delineate the structural basis of the molecular trap. The location of Glu27 and Arg31 residues in the contiguous segment alpha24-40 (as well as in other larger segments) is ideal to generate (i, i + 4) side-chain carboxylate-guanidino interaction in its alpha-helical conformation. The amino acid residue replacement studies have confirmed that the side chains at alpha27 and alpha31 facilitate the semisynthetic reaction. The relative influence of the substitute at these sites on the splicing reaction depends on the chemical nature of the side chain and the location. The gamma-carboxylate guanidino side-chain interaction appears to contribute up to a maximum of 85% of the thermodynamic stability of the molecular trap. The studies also demonstrate that the thermodynamic stability of the molecular trap is determined by two interdependent conformational aspects of the peptide. One is an amino acid-sequence-specific event that facilitates the induction of an alpha-helical conformation to the contiguous segment in the presence of organic cosolvent that imparts some amount of protease resistance to Glu30-Arg31 peptide bond. The second structural aspect is a site-specific event, an i, i + 4 side-chain interaction in the alpha-helical conformation of the peptide which imparts an additional thermodynamic stability to the molecular trap. The results suggest that conformationally driven "molecular traps" of protease-mediated ligation reactions of peptides could be designed into products to facilitate the modular assembly of peptides/proteins.
Assembly in vitro of vitelline envelope components induced by a cortical alveolus sialoglycoprotein of eggs of the fish Tribolodon hakonensis.	Assembly in vitro of vitelline envelope (VE) components, which were precipitated by 50-70% saturated ammonium sulphate from VE extracts, was induced by the action of a sialoglycoprotein that is immunohistochemically localised in cortical alveoli of fish eggs and has serine proteinase activity. The VE components consisted of major bands of molecular mass about 150-120, 110-100, 70 and 27 kDa in addition to about 20 minor bands and contained a chorionic transglutaminase, visualised as two fluorescent bands by monodansylcadaverine staining. The VE component assembly in vitro was Ca(2+)-dependent, not induced if the sialoglycoprotein was pretreated with a serine proteinase inhibitor, and inhibited by the presence of p-chloromercuribenzoate, iodoacetamide or L-cysteine in the reaction medium system. Electron microscopy revealed that assembly in vitro of the VE components consisted of aggregates of network sheets, consisting of branching and anastomosing thin (approximately 27-52 nm) and thick (approximately 137-376 nm) filamentous substances. Separation by SDS-PAGE showed that a considerable number of VE components participated in the assembly in vitro in various amounts. These results suggest at least partial reproduction of the phenomena that occur in the process of fertilisation envelope (FE) formation, and provide a new approach to investigation of the process of FE assembly in vitro.
Neurexophilin binding to alpha-neurexins. A single LNS domain functions as an independently folding ligand-binding unit.	alpha-Neurexins (Ialpha, IIalpha, and IIIalpha) are receptor-like proteins expressed in hundreds of isoforms on the neuronal cell surface. The extracellular domains of alpha-neurexins are composed of six LNS repeats, named after homologous sequences in the Laminin A G domain, Neurexins, and Sex hormone-binding globulin, with three interspersed epidermal growth factor-like domains. Purification of neurexin Ialpha revealed that it is tightly complexed to a secreted glycoprotein called neurexophilin 1. Neurexophilin 1 is a member of a family of at least four genes and resembles a neuropeptide, suggesting a function as an endogenous ligand for alpha-neurexins. We have now used recombinant proteins and knockout mice to investigate which isoforms and domains of different neurexins and neurexophilins interact with each other. We show that neurexophilins 1 and 3 but not 4 (neurexophilin 2 is not expressed in rodents) bind to a single individual LNS domain, the second overall LNS domain in all three alpha-neurexins. Although this domain is alternatively spliced, all splice variants bind, suggesting that alternative splicing does not regulate binding. Using homologous recombination to disrupt the neurexophilin 1 gene, we generated mutant mice that do not express detectable neurexophilin 1 mRNA. Mice lacking neurexophilin 1 are viable with no obvious morbidity or mortality. However, homozygous mutant mice exhibit male sterility, probably because homologous recombination resulted in the co-insertion into the neurexophilin gene of herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase, which is known to cause male sterility. In the neurexophilin 1 knockout mice, neurexin Ialpha is complexed with neurexophilin 3 but not neurexophilin 4, suggesting that neurexophilin 1 is redundant with neurexophilin 3 and that neurexophilins 1 and 3 but not 4 bind to neurexins. This hypothesis was confirmed using expression experiments. Our data reveal that the six LNS and three epidermal growth factor domains of neurexins are independently folding ligand-binding domains that may interact with distinct targets. The results support the notion that neurexophilins represent a family of extracellular signaling molecules that interact with multiple receptors including all three alpha-neurexins.
Nasal symptoms and indices of nasal inflammation in flour-dust-exposed bakers.	To analyze whether indices of nasal airway inflammation in bakers were related to nasal symptoms and exposure to airborne flour dust.
Formation of the preprimosome protects lambda O from RNA transcription-dependent proteolysis by ClpP/ClpX.	Using the bacteriophage lambda DNA replication system, composed entirely of purified proteins, we have tested the accessibility of the short-lived lambda O protein to the ClpP/ClpX protease during the various stages of lambda DNA replication. We find that binding of lambda O protein to its orilambda DNA sequence, leading to the so-called "O-some" formation, largely inhibits its degradation. On the contrary, under conditions permissive for transcription, the lambda O protein bound to the orilambda sequence becomes largely accessible to ClpP/ClpX-mediated proteolysis. However, when the lambda O protein is part of the larger orilambda:O.P.DnaB preprimosomal complex, transcription does not significantly increase ClpP/ClpX-dependent lambda O degradation. These results show that transcription can stimulate proteolysis of a protein that is required for the initiation of DNA replication.
Neutrophil serine proteinases and defensins in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: effects on pulmonary epithelium.	Neutrophils have the capacity to accumulate in high numbers in the lung during infection and inflammation. Because they play an important role in host defence against infection, but may also cause tissue injury, these cells are thought to be involved in the pathogenesis of various inflammatory lung disorders, including chronic bronchitis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Neutrophil products that may mediate tissue injury at sites of neutrophil-dominated inflammation include the neutrophil serine proteinases elastase, cathepsin G and proteinase 3, and the nonenzymatic defensins. One of the targets of the neutrophil is the lung epithelium, and in vitro studies have revealed that both the serine proteinases and neutrophil defensins markedly affect the integrity of the epithelial layer, decrease the frequency of ciliary beat, increase the secretion of mucus, and induce the synthesis of epithelium-derived mediators that may influence the amplification and resolution of neutrophil-dominated inflammation. Both neutrophil elastase and defensins induce the release of the neutrophil chemoattractant chemokine interleukin-8 from respiratory epithelial cells. The alpha1-proteinase inhibitor (alpha1-PI) is a well-characterized inhibitor of neutrophil elastase, that also blocks the cytotoxic and stimulatory activity of defensins towards epithelial cells. The elastase inhibitory activity of alpha1-PI is also abrogated by the binding of defensins to this inhibitor. Incubation of epithelial cells with neutrophil defensins in combination with either elastase or cathepsin G resulted in decreased effects on the epithelial cells compared with those observed when the cells were incubated with defensins, elastase or cathepsin G separately. These results suggest that neutrophil defensins and serine proteinases cause injury and stimulate epithelial cells to produce chemokines that attract more neutrophils to the site of inflammation. The effects of neutrophil defensins and serine proteinases on epithelial cells appear to be restricted by proteinase inhibitors and by inhibitory interactions between these sets of neutrophil granule proteins.
Peptidyl human heart chymase inhibitors. 1. Synthesis and inhibitory activity of difluoromethylene ketone derivatives bearing P' binding subsites.	Peptidyl difluoromethylene ketone derivatives were designed to take advantage of probable additional interactions with the S' subsite of human heart chymase. They showed potent inhibitory activities against human heart chymase and were more efficient than bovine chymotrypsin.
Peptidyl human heart chymase inhibitors. 2. Discovery of highly selective difluoromethylene ketone derivatives with Glu at P3 site.	Appropriate structural modification of the difluoromethylene ketone derivatives at both P3 and P' positions led us to the discovery of peptidyl human heart chymase inhibitor 12h which shows potent activity with Ki = 6 nM and high selectivity against closely related serine protease bovine alpha-chymotrypsin (chymotrypsin Ki = > 100 microM). Using the compound 12b, a docking study with human heart chymase was carried out to presume probable interactions.
Inhibition of human cytomegalovirus protease N(o) with monocyclic beta-lactams.	Monocyclic beta-lactams have been identified as potent and selective inhibitors of the human cytomegalovirus protease (HCMV) N(o). Two series of these inhibitors are described, a peptidyl series of compounds and non-peptidic molecules featuring lower molecular weights. The SAR work that lead to the discovery of these inhibitors, together with their synthesis is also disclosed.
Virulence of a polymicrobic complex, Treponema denticola and Porphyromonas gingivalis, in a murine model.	The effect of a polymicrobic infection employing Treponema denticola and Porphyromonas gingivalis in the murine lesion model was used to determine the synergistic virulence of these two periodontopathic bacteria. At high doses of P. gingivalis W50, addition of T. denticola in the infection mixture had no effect on the formation and size of the spreading lesion caused by this microorganism. However, at low P. gingivalis challenge doses, T. denticola significantly enhanced the virulence of P. gingivalis compared with monoinfection of this microorganism. A potential role of the trypsin-like protease enzyme activity of P. gingivalis in this synergistic virulence was tested using P. gingivalis mutants deficient (i.e., BEI) or devoid (i.e., NG4B19) of this protease activity. These findings demonstrated that T. denticola-P. gingivalis complexes exhibit enhanced virulence in this model and that even using a polymicrobic challenge infection, the trypsin-like protease activity was important to P. gingivalis virulence expression.
A new intracellular serine protease inhibitor expressed in the rat pituitary gland complexes with granzyme B.	We have cloned a novel serpin (raPIT5a) from a rat pituitary cDNA library which is structurally related to members of the ovalbumin subfamily of serine protease inhibitors. This new cDNA encodes a 374-amino acid protein, designated raPIT5a. raPIT5a was expressed in specific cells in the intermediate and anterior lobes of the pituitary. Recombinant raPIT5a was not secreted suggesting raPIT5a functions to inhibit intracellular proteases. Recombinant raPIT5a formed an SDS-stable complex with human granzyme B, a serine protease which induces apoptosis by activating members of the caspase enzyme family. These data suggest raPIT5a may have a role in regulating granzyme B or related enzymes and apoptosis in the pituitary gland.
Peptide-based inhibitors of the hepatitis C virus serine protease.	Hexapeptide DDIVPC-OH is a competitive inhibitor of the hepatitis C virus (HCV) NS3 protease complexed with NS4A cofactor peptide. This hexapeptide corresponds to the N-terminal cleavage product of an HCV dodecapeptide substrate derived from the NS5A/5B cleavage site. Structure-activity studies on Ac-DDIVPC-OH revealed that side chains of the P4, P3 and P1 residues contribute the most to binding and that the introduction of a D-amino acid at the P5 position improves potency considerably. Furthermore, there is a strong preference for cysteine at the P1 position and conservative replacements, such as serine, are not well tolerated.
Highly efficient and versatile synthesis of libraries of constrained beta-strand mimetics.	The general approach of using a bicyclic template to produce inhibitors of the protease superfamily of enzymes has been investigated. The Diels Alder cycloaddition reaction on solid support has been found to be highly efficient for the synthesis of libraries of compounds that mimic the beta-strand secondary structure of proteins. Several potent and selective inhibitors of proteases have been discovered.
Trypsinogen activation and glutathione content are linked to pancreatic injury in models of biliary acute pancreatitis.	In models of biliary acute pancreatitis, which might resemble the situation in humans, premature activation of trypsinogen inside the pancreas ("autodigestion") occurs and is correlated with the extent of ductal and parenchymal injury. It is accompanied by a critical spending of protease inhibitors and glutathione, compromising important acinar cell defense and maintenance mechanisms.
