Construction and characterization of bacterial artificial chromosome libraries from the silkworm, Bombyx mori.	Two bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) libraries were constructed using nuclear DNA from posterior silkglands of the silkworm (Bombyx mori) strains p50 and C108. The libraries contain a total of 36,864 clones, or approximately 9 genome equivalents. The average insert sizes in the libraries were 134.5 kb and 120.8 kb, respectively. PCR-based screening was performed on the p50 library using probes for 34 sequence-tagged sites (STSs). Between 3 and 11 (6.1 hits on average) clones were isolated with each STS, in good agreement with the library size, 5.8 genome equivalents. The previously reported close linkage between the Bombyx homologs of the invected (Bm in) and engrailed (Bm en) genes was confirmed by construction of a BAC contig that contained both. Moreover, screening revealed novel information about the chromosomal organization of the sericin-1 and DH-PBAN genes, which were localized within a 22-kb interval and are divergently oriented. These results show that it is possible to construct contigs and analyze chromosome organization using these libraries.
Developmental switches of sericin mRNA splicing in individual cells of Bombyx mori silkgland.	Four mRNA of 10.5, 9.0, 4.0, and 2.8 kb are made from the sericin Ser1 gene by alternative maturation of a unique mRNA precursor. By means of RNA blots and in situ hybridization, we investigated variations in the distribution of these mRNA during the last larval instar in different territories of the middle silkgland. Taken together, the results from these two techniques show that 150 out of the 266 cells of this region of the organ express the Ser1 gene, but accumulate distinct mature mRNA species. Of these 150 cells 42 are specialized in a processing pathway resulting in the production of the 2.8-kb Ser1 mRNA throughout the larval instar. The 108 others perform successively three distinct splicing pathways leading to a development-dependent accumulation of, respectively, the 4.0-, the 10.5-, and the 9.0-kb mRNA. This suggests the occurrence of two switches in the splicing capacities of these cells during the fifth instar. The middle silkgland cells also express another sericin gene (Ser2) which encodes two mRNA of 5.4 and 3.1 kb, also arising by differential splicing. At the beginning of development, all the middle silkgland cells express this gene but, as development proceeds, expression becomes restricted to only the anterior cells. The biological consequence of this topological and temporal regulation of the mode of expression of these two genes is the sequential secretion and layering of the different sericins around the silk thread.
Lifespan and protein synthesis in several Bombyx mori mutants with genetic abnormalities in amino acid and protein metabolism.	Three kinds of "white eggs" and red-blooded Bombyx mutants (W1, W2, W3 and rb) which lack enzymes in tryptophan metabolism showed almost no difference in their lifespans from that of normal stock. However, other Bombyx mutants, such as Nd, Nd-s and DES-Nd, unable to synthesize fibroin, had shorter lifespans than normal. Among these fibroin-deficient mutants, only the lifespan of DES-Nd was similar to the normal. However, further analysis of the amino acid composition in the cocoon of the mutant showed that its lifespan was also dependent on its ability to synthesize fibroin-like protein. It is very likely that, different from abnormalities in amino acid metabolism, a genetic abnormality in protein metabolism affects the maintenance of adult life in silkmoths and this results in the short lifespan. Generally speaking, an abnormality in amino acid metabolism seems to have no influence on silkmoth lifespan. However, an abnormality in protein metabolism results in shortening lifespan. The greater the abnormality in protein metabolism possessed by a silkmoth, the shorter the lifespan.
Genetic variants of the Bombyx mori silkworn encoding sericin proteins of different lengths.	A variant sericin polypeptide originally found by acid gel electrophoresis in the Nd-s mutant strain of the silkworm, Bombyx mori, has been analyzed genetically. The variant polypeptide (called S-2v) is encoded by a gene which behaves as a codominant allele of the gene encoding the standard S-2 sericin polypeptide. Linkage analysis locates these alleles at 0.0 map unit on chromosome 11. SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis shows that the molecular weight of the S-2v variant polypeptide is lower by approximately 62,500 than that of the S-2 polypeptide. Amino acid analysis indicates that the two sericin polypeptides have similar compositions. These results are consistent with the idea that the variant allele arose by deletion within the S-2 coding sequence in the Src-2 gene locus as the result of unequal recombination.
Expression pattern analysis of SGF-3/POU-M1 in relation to sericin-1 gene expression in the silk gland.	Embryonic and larval expression patterns of the sericin-1 gene and its presumed transcription factor, SGF-3/POU-M1, in the silk gland were analyzed by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. The sericin-1 transcripts were first detected at embryonic stage 26 in an increasing gradient pattern in the middle and posterior part of the middle silk gland (MSG), while at the same stage the SGF-3/POU-M1 was already present in the entire anterior silk gland (ASG) and in the MSG but with a decreasing gradient pattern. The latter expression pattern was consistently maintained through all larval stages, while the sericin-1 expression was detected during the feeding stages but disappeared at the molting stages. These observations suggest that, although the SGF-3/POU-M1 was proposed to be a positive transcription factor for the sericin-1 gene, the protein might function in a negative manner on sericin-1 gene transcription. Alternatively, it is also possible that the sericin-1 gene might require another unidentified factor or mediator for in vivo transcription.
