Toxic proteins released from mitochondria in cell death.	A plethora of apoptotic stimuli converge on the mitochondria and affect their membrane integrity. As a consequence, multiple death-promoting factors residing in the mitochondrial intermembrane space are liberated in the cytosol. Pro- and antiapoptotic Bcl-2 family proteins control the release of these mitochondrial proteins by inducing or preventing permeabilization of the outer mitochondrial membrane. Once released into the cytosol, these mitochondrial proteins activate both caspase-dependent and -independent cell death pathways. Cytochrome c was the first protein shown to be released from the mitochondria into the cytosol, where it induces apoptosome formation. Other released mitochondrial proteins include apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) and endonuclease G, both of which contribute to apoptotic nuclear DNA damage in a caspase-independent way. Other examples are Smac/DIABLO (second mitochondria-derived activator of caspase/direct IAP-binding protein with low PI) and the serine protease HtrA2/OMI (high-temperature requirement protein A2), which both promote caspase activation and instigate caspase-independent cytotoxicity. The precise mode of action and importance of cytochrome c in apoptosis in mammalian cells has become clear through biochemical, structural and genetic studies. More recently identified factors, for example HtrA2/OMI and Smac/DIABLO, are still being studied intensively in order to delineate their functions in apoptosis. A better understanding of these functions may help to develop new strategies to treat cancer.
Release of esterase from murine lymphokine-activated killer cells in antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxic reaction.	Release of granule enzyme(s) (BLT esterase) in the antibody dependent lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cell-mediated cytotoxic reaction (LAK ADCC) was studied using LAK cells induced from murine splenocytes and thymocytes, various human tumor cells and relevant monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) to the tumor cells. BLT esterase was not significantly released from LAK cells in direct LAK cell-mediated cytotoxic reactions (LAK CMC). However, cultures of LAK cells and IgG-coated target tumor cells resulted in release of the enzyme concomitantly with target cell lysis, although esterase release proceeded faster than target cell lysis. Anti-LFA-1 mAb showed an inhibitory effect on LAK CMC but not on either LAK ADCC or BLT esterase release in the ADCC. These results indicate that exocytosis of granule enzyme from LAK cells is triggered by stimulation of Fc receptor on LAK cells and that LAK CMC and LAK ADCC differ in their lytic mechanism in terms of the release of BLT esterase.
The secretion genes of Pseudomonas aeruginosa alkaline protease are functionally related to those of Erwinia chrysanthemi proteases and Escherichia coli alpha-haemolysin.	The extracellular alkaline protease produced by Pseudomonas aeruginosa is secreted by a specific pathway, independent of the pathway used by most of the other extracellular proteins of this organism. Secretion of this protease is dependent on the presence of several genes located adjacent to the apr gene. Complementation studies have shown that PrtD, E, and F, the three secretion functions for Erwinia chrysanthemi proteases B and C (Létoffé et al., 1990), can mediate the secretion of the alkaline protease by Escherichia coli. The secretion functions involved in alpha-haemolysin secretion in E. coli (hlyB, hlyD, tolC) can also be used to complement alkaline protease secretion by E. coli, although less efficiently. These data indicate that protease secretion mechanisms in Pseudomonas and Erwinia are very similar and are homologous to that of E. coli alpha-haemolysin.
T cell subsets and their lymphokines.	The general biological properties of T cell related lymphokines are reviewed here. In particular the stimulatory function of IL-3 on a subset of T cells isolated from the peripheral blood of a normal individual was demonstrated. These cells were CD4 and CD8 negative and expressed the alpha/beta T cell receptor instead of the expected gamma/delta heterodimer. Previously IL-3 has been described to induce the growth of hemopoietic cells, chiefly progenitor cells and mast cells. Moreover IL-7, a newly cloned lymphokine, was found to support the growth and expansion of the human nature T cells. Either T cell clones phenotype and function, or resting T cells were stimulated by IL-7. Finally, the lymphokine production by the T cell clones which have or not cytotoxic capacity was analysed. Different amounts of mRNA transcripts and translated proteins were produced by the two types of T cell clones. This could represent an important tool with which to classify T cells having a function unrelated to the membrane phenotype.
Enhancement of redirected target cell lysis by cytotoxic T lymphocytes in the presence of cytochalasin B.	The cytochalasins are known secretogogues. Their function as such is examined in light of the granule exocytosis model for lymphocyte-mediated cytotoxicity. Cytochalasin B is found to enhance target cell lysis by cytotoxic T lymphocytes when antibody-coated polystyrene beads are used to bridge the cells. The pattern of lysis is found to be biphasic in its dependence on cytochalasin B. Secretion of the enzyme BLT-esterase from the effector cells parallels the cytochalasin concentration-dependent pattern of lysis. Cytochalasin D is also able to enhance lysis but at concentrations less than cytochalasin B. Cytochalasin B does not inhibit binding of breads to the effector cell. This is shown by the ability of fluorescent beads coated with antibody to bind with an appropriate specificity to cells. These studies indicate that cytochalasin B is not strictly inhibitory for the induction of target cell lysis but can enhance lymphocyte-mediated lysis at low drug concentrations. These results are compatible with the interpretation that target cell lysis is mediated through a secretion process from cytotoxic T lymphocytes.
VirK is a periplasmic protein required for efficient secretion of plasmid-encoded toxin from enteroaggregative Escherichia coli.	Despite the autotransporter (AT) moniker, AT secretion appears to involve the function of periplasmic chaperones. We identified four periplasmic proteins that specifically bound to plasmid-encoded toxin (Pet), an AT produced by enteroaggregative Escherichia coli (EAEC). These proteins include the 17-kDa Skp chaperone and the 37-kDa VirK protein. We found that the virK gene is present in different Enterobacteriaceae. VirK bound to misfolded conformations of the Pet passenger domain, but it did not bind to the folded passenger domain or to the β domain of Pet. Assays with an EAECΔvirK mutant and its complemented version showed that, in the absence of VirK, Pet was not secreted but was instead retained in the periplasm as proteolytic fragments. In contrast, Pet was secreted from a Δskp mutant. VirK was not required for the insertion of porin proteins into the outer membrane but assisted with insertion of the Pet β domain into the outer membrane. Loss of VirK function blocked the EAEC-mediated cytotoxic effect against HEp-2 cells. Thus, VirK facilitates the secretion of the AT Pet by maintaining the passenger domain in a conformation that both avoids periplasmic proteolysis and facilitates β-domain insertion into the outer membrane.
Interaction of lymphokine-activated killer cells with susceptible targets does not induce second messenger generation and cytolytic granule exocytosis.	CTL activation by specific targets leads to a rapid rise of inositol phosphates (InsPs) and of cytoplasmic-free Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i). While these events are considered necessary to trigger granule secretion, Ca2+-independent cytolytic mechanisms have been recently proposed in addition or as an alternative to the classical Ca2+-dependent exocytosis model. We observed that lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells, obtained after stimulation with supraoptimal concentrations of IL-2 in short- or long-term cultures, kill susceptible targets in the absence of a [Ca2+]i rise and InsP3 formation. Moreover, LAK cell-mediated lysis was not associated with an increase in cytotoxic granule exocytosis, as evaluated by BLT-esterase release into the culture supernatant. Furthermore, using an antigen-specific CTL clone, which acquires LAK-like activity when cultured in medium containing high IL-2 doses, second messenger generation and cytolytic granule content secretion were not detected during lysis of unrelated target cells, while killing of specific targets triggered both these processes. These findings suggest that two lytic pathways may coexist in the same effector cells: a second messenger-dependent pathway involving degranulation, which is activated after TCR interaction with specific targets, and another pathway, independent of any known second messenger generation, responsible for unrelated target cell lysis.
Secretion of goblet cell serine proteinase, ingobsin, is stimulated by vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and acetylcholine.	Ingobsin is localized to the intestinal goblet cells in the rat and in man. In the present study, we investigated the effect of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) and acetylcholine on the secretion of ingobsin from the proximal duodenum. Intravenous infusion of VIP or acetylcholine increased the concentration of ingobsin in duodenal secretion, while the concentration in the duodenum was unchanged. Simultaneous infusion of VIP and acetylcholine increased the concentration of ingobsin in duodenal secretion and decreased the concentration of ingobsin in the duodenum. This study demonstrates that secretion of ingobsin from the proximal duodenum is exocrine and can be stimulated by VIP and acetylcholine.
Decentralization of the superior cervical ganglia inhibits mast cell mediated TNF alpha-dependent cytotoxicity. 1. Potential role of salivary glands.	Decentralization or ganglionectomy of the superior cervical ganglia (SCG) reduces pulmonary inflammation, as well as chemotaxis and activation of circulating neutrophils. However, the protective effect of decentralization was abolished when combined with removal of the submandibular glands (sialadenectomy) in the same animals. Thus, it has been postulated that the submandibular glands (SMG) release an anti-inflammatory factor(s) that is controlled by cervical sympathetic nerves. Decentralization of SCG did not modify in vitro histamine release or in vivo levels of rat mast cell protease II, but it reduced mast cell (MC)-mediated tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha)-dependent cytotoxicity. Combined decentralization/sialadenectomy abrogated the inhibition of MC cytotoxic activity, as we have shown previously for pulmonary inflammation and neutrophil functions. However, sialadenectomy alone inhibited MC-mediated TNF alpha-dependent cytotoxicity, an observation which suggests that SMG produce a factor(s) that can potentiate MC cytotoxic activity. Studies of the effects of SMG-derived factors, such as epidermal growth factor, nerve growth factor, and transforming growth factor beta (TGF beta), showed that only pretreatment of MCs with TGF beta 10(-8) g/ml inhibited MC-mediated TNF alpha-dependent cytotoxicity. Thus, the modulation of MC-mediated TNF alpha-dependent cytotoxicity by cervical sympathetic innervation and SMG is complex and distinct from the modulation of pulmonary inflammation and neutrophil functions identified previously.
