Subserosal appendicular stripping.	Appendicectomy in patients with recurrent appendicitis can be difficult due to an adherent and inflamed appendix. We describe the technique and results of subserosal appendicular stripping (SAA). Over a four-year period, 49 patients who were diagnosed with recurrent appendicitis required SAA. They had prior admission for acute appendicitis which resolved with antibiotic treatment. Persistent symptoms necessitated surgery. SAA was necessary in these patients due to an inflamed, adherent appendix with extensive serosal adhesions. The appendix was delivered out from the serosa following retrograde ligation of the appendicular base. The adherent serosa was left intact. Average patient age was 23 years. All had persistent symptoms for more than one week with a history of one or more previous attacks. No surgical complications were observed except transient serosal bleeding in the first case managed by gentle diathermy. We advocate SAA as a modification of appendicectomy in patients with recurrent appendicitis where the appendix is inflamed and adherent.
Effect of staurosporine on histamine release from rat serosal mast cells.	Rat serosal mast cells were challenged with compound 48/80 or calcium ionophore A23187 and the effect of staurosporine, a new inhibitor of protein kinase C, on histamine release from the cells was investigated. Histamine release induced by compound 48/80 or calcium ionophore A23187 was inhibited by staurosporine in a concentration-dependent manner and 0.1 and 1 microM staurosporine inhibited the histamine release significantly. The inhibitory effect of K-252a, another novel protein kinase C-inhibitor, was significantly higher than that of staurosporine on calcium ionophore A23187-induced histamine release. These results suggest that protein kinases will be involved in the process during mediator release from rat serosal mast cells.
Intra-operative administration of neocarzinostatin into the duodenal subserosa and levels found in the regional lymph nodes in pancreato-duodenal cancer]	As an intraoperative chemotherapy treatment for the regional lymph nodes in resectable cases of pancreatoduodenal cancer, Neocarzinostatin (NCS) was administered in the duodenal subserosa and the NCS concentration was measured in the resected lymph nodes.
Standard radical surgery for carcinoma of the gallbladder invading the subserosal layer (ss cancer)]	The postoperative survival rate is dependent on the invasive depth of cancer of the gallbladder, as shown in in our studies and in other Japanese studies detailed in questionnaires. In cases of m, mp cancer, good survival rates are achieved after simple cholecystectomy or wedge resection of the liver including the gallbladder bed with regional lymphadenectomy. However, when the cancer has invaded beyond the subserosal layer, lymph node and adjacent organ involvement is found in a large number of patients, and long-term survival cannot be achieved by wedge resection of the liver with dissection of the cystic nodes and pericholedochal lymph nodes. The poor prognosis of patients with these lesions might be due to the use of inappropriate surgical procedures. When the appropriate procedures based on the extent of subserosal (ss) invasiveness of gallbladder cancer were used, long-term survival was obtained in our patient series. The appropriate radical surgical procedures for ss cancer are as follows: When cancer is diagnosed as invading to the ss layer by intraoperative ultrasonography (IOUS), wedge resection of the liver including the gallbladder bed and D2 dissection of the lymph nodes including the paraaortic lymph nodes (16a2 inter, 16b1 inter pre) should be performed. When liver involvement (Hinf1-Hinf2) is diagnosed by IOUS or cancer is located on the liver bed, resection of segment 4a 5 in Couinaud's classification is performed. When there is involvement of the pericholedochal nodes, nodes around the common hepatic artery, and/or posterior pancreatoduodenal nodes are found at operation, pancreatoduodenectomy should be performed. Wedge resection of the liver or S4a 5 segmental resection of the liver with resection of the bile duct and D2 dissection of the lymph nodes including the paraaortic lymph nodes is considered to be the standard radical operation for many patients with ss cancer of the gallbladder.
