Sex differences, season of birth and platelet 5-HT levels in schizophrenic patients.	Similar occurrence of schizophrenia was observed in men and women independent of their season of birth. Platelet 5-HT concentration was determined in 116 healthy control subjects (61 male and 55 female) and 152 patients with schizophrenia (96 male and 56 female). Platelet 5-HT concentration was significantly higher in male than in female healthy persons and schizophrenic patients. Male and female healthy subjects born in different seasons had similar platelet 5-HT concentrations, whereas schizophrenic patients with different birth-seasons had significantly different platelet 5-HT concentrations. The highest platelet 5-HT levels were observed in both male and female schizophrenic patients born in winter when compared to matched healthy controls. Male schizophrenic patients born in winter had higher platelet 5-HT levels than schizophrenic men born in spring and summer. Female schizophrenic patients born in winter had higher platelet 5-HT than schizophrenic women born in all other seasons. These results indicated sex differences in platelet 5-HT levels in healthy persons and schizophrenic patients. The relationship between season of the birth and platelet 5-HT concentration observed only in schizophrenic patients added further support to the presumption that schizophrenia is connected with a disturbance in the central serotoninergic system.
Dynamic changes of cognitive habituation and serotonin metabolism during the migraine interval.	Migraine patients show a specific cognitive processing with a loss of habituation in the interval and a normal habituation in the attack as measured by event-related potentials (ERPs). It is unknown whether the loss of habituation changes during the migraine interval or is a stable state. Serotonin (5HT) metabolism is involved in the pathophysiology of migraine and also in the generation of ERPs. We enrolled 14 patients with regular migraine attacks in order to measure visually evoked ERPs repetitively during the migraine interval and in the migraine attack. Cognitive habituation was evaluated by analysis of P3 latency. Platelet serotonin content and free serotonin plasma level were measured at the same time points. The loss of habituation increased continuously during the migraine interval and abruptly normalized in the migraine attack (p < 0.05, time series analysis). The platelet 5HT content decreased significantly in the migraine attack (p < 0.03) and was at its maximum in the middle of the interval. The P3 latency was significantly increased in the attack (p < 0.01) and was significantly inversely correlated with the platelet 5HT content (r = -0.44, p < 0.001). Free 5HT plasma levels did not show any significant change. Our findings suggest that loss of cognitive habituation continuously increases during the migraine interval until its normalization in the migraine attack. This phenomenon cannot be attributed to serotonergic transmission. In patients with regular changes of cognitive habituation before the migraine attack, it might be possible to predict the attack by analysing ERPs.
Alteration of the platelet serotonin transporter in romantic love.	The evolutionary consequences of love are so important that there must be some long-established biological process regulating it. Recent findings suggest that the serotonin (5-HT) transporter might be linked to both neuroticism and sexual behaviour as well as to obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). The similarities between an overvalued idea, such as that typical of subjects in the early phase of a love relationship, and obsession, prompted us to explore the possibility that the two conditions might share alterations at the level of the 5-HT transporter.
Serotonin in an antigen-induced arthritis of the rabbit temporomandibular joint.	The aim was to investigate the joint perfusate concentration of serotonin (5-HT) in antigen-induced monoarthritis of the rabbit temporomandibular joint (TMJ) and knee joint. Thirty adult male New Zealand White rabbits, of whom eight were first used as healthy controls, were divided into TMJ and knee arthritis groups. Unilateral arthritis was induced with ovalbumin intra-articularly and the contralateral joint was sham-induced. The joints were perfused with saline (flow rate, 0.05 ml/min; 10-min intervals during 50 min) 3 weeks later and the 5-HT concentration analysed. After the perfusion, the joints were evaluated histologically. The 5-HT concentration in the initial perfusate from the arthritic TMJ was higher than in both sham-induced and healthy control joints, and from the knee joint arthritis higher than in sham-induced joints. No histological difference in the arthritis was observed between the two groups. This study shows that the 5-HT concentration found immediately after puncture is increased in antigen-induced arthritis of the rabbit TMJ and knee joint.
8-OHDPAT-induced disruption of prepulse inhibition in rats is attenuated by prolonged corticosterone treatment.	The present study investigated the impact of acute and repeated administrations of corticosterone (10 mg/kg, twice daily, for 7 days) on serotonin (5-HT)(1A) receptor function, density and expression. The effect on 5-HT(1A) receptor function was assayed in rats by assessing the corticosterone-induced modulation of disruption of prepulse inhibition (PPI) of acoustic startle response induced by 8-OHDPAT, a 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist. Our experiments revealed that repeated but not acute treatment with corticosterone attenuated the 8-OHDPAT-evoked disruption of PPI without having any effect on PPI or startle amplitude alone. Chronic corticosterone treatment modulated also the neuronal activity of serotonergic pathways in the brain decreasing the level of 5-HIAA in the raphe nuclei and increasing both 5-HT and 5-HIAA levels in the hippocampus. Nevertheless, the effects of 8-OHDPAT on 5-HT metabolism were not changed by corticosterone. However, 5-HT(1A) receptor binding in the ventral hippocampus and entorhinal cortex but not in the raphe nuclei was decreased after chronic corticosterone treatment. It is concluded that chronically elevated corticosterone level is capable of inducing functional desensitization of 5-HT(1A) receptors which is paralleled by decreases in the 5-HT(1A) receptor binding in the ventral hippocampus and entorhinal cortex, the brain structures shown to be engaged in the regulation of PPI. Alterations in 5-HT(1A) receptors may be one of important mechanisms by which glucocorticoids/stress influence various psychiatric conditions.
Platelet 5-HT concentration and comorbid depression in war veterans with and without posttraumatic stress disorder.	The serotonergic system is implicated in the pathophysiology of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and depression. The present study focused on platelet serotonin (5-HT) concentration and symptoms of comorbid depression in war veterans with or without PTSD.
Plasma oxytocin in response to pharmaco-challenge to D-fenfluramine and placebo in healthy men.	The neuropeptide oxytocin is produced in the hypothalamus and released centrally and peripherally in response to serotonergic stimulation. Plasma oxytocin levels may be a candidate as a biological index of serotonergic function in response to pharmacological challenge by serotonergic agents. Fourteen male healthy subjects underwent a placebo challenge and a D-fenfluramine (D-FEN) (0.5 mg/kg) challenge on different days. Serial plasma oxytocin and prolactin levels were measured on each challenge day. D-FEN was associated with an increase in both oxytocin and prolactin. Plasma oxytocin may function as an index of central serotonin (5-HT) function in human subjects. Since oxytocin is released directly from limbic-hypothalamic cells, this response presumably represents a direct central assessment of 5-HT response in limbic-hypothalamus. Further work will determine if the oxytocin response to 5-HT pharmaco-challenge, by virtue of its central origin, is more highly related to measures of psychopathology (e.g. aggression) than that of less central outcome parameters of 5-HT responsiveness (e.g. prolactin).
Hypothalamic digoxin, hemispheric chemical dominance, and Alzheimer's disease.	This study assessed the changes in the isoprenoid pathway and the consequences of its dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The isoprenoid pathway and digoxin status were also studied for comparison in individuals of differing hemispheric dominance to find the role of cerebral dominance in the genesis of Alzheimer's disease. There was elevation in plasma HMG CoA reductase activity, serum digoxin, and dolichol levels, and a reduction in serum magnesium, RBC membrane Na(+)-K+ ATPase activity, and serum ubiquinone levels. Serum tryptophan, serotonin, strychnine, nicotine, and quinolinic acid were elevated, while serum tyrosine, morphine, dopamine, and noradrenaline were decreased. The total serum glycosaminoglycans and glycosaminoglycan fractions, the activity of GAG degrading enzymes and glycohydrolases, carbohydrate residues of glycoproteins, and serum glycolipids were elevated in Alzheimer's disease. HDL cholesterol was reduced and free fatty acids increased. The RBC membrane glycosaminoglycans, hexose, and fucose residues of glycoproteins and cholesterol were reduced, while phospholipid increased. The activity of all free radical scavenging enzymes, concentration of glutathione, alpha tocopherol, iron binding capacity, and ceruloplasmin decreased significantly in Alzheimer's disease, while the concentration of lipid peroxidation products and NO increased. The hypomagnesemia-related NMDA excitotoxicity, ubiquinone deficiency related mitochondrial dysfunction, and altered glycoconjugates/lysosomal stability could contribute to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. The biochemical patterns, including hyperdigoxinemia observed in Alzheimer's disease, correlated with those obtained in right hemispheric chemical dominance. Right hemispheric chemical dominance is a predisposing factor for Alzheimer's disease.
Hypoxic initiation of pulmonary hypertension is mediated by serotonin secretion from neuroepithelial bodies in chemodenervated dogs.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the stimulatory effect of hypoxia on the secretion of serotonin by neuroepithelial bodies (NEB) as well as to determine the relation between its level and changes in pulmonary arterial pressure (PAP) and also to determinate the effect of serotonin antagonists (pizotifen and methysergide) on the responses of pulmonary and systemic arterial pressures. The experiments were carried out in peripheral chemoreceptor-denervated dogs anesthetized with Na penthabarbital (30 mg/kg i.v.). On the breathing of normoxic and hypoxic (7% O2-93% N2) gas mixtures and on the injection of KCN (80 microg/kg i.v.), PAP, systemic arterial blood pressure (BP), tidal volume (VT), respiratory frequency (f/min), ventilation minute volume (VE) were determined. Also PAP and BP were recorded before and after the injection of pizotifen (0.5 mg/kg i.v.) and methysergide (1 mg/kg i.v.) during normoxic or hypoxic gas mixture breathing. At the end of each experimantal phase, serotonin level, PaO2, PaCO2 and pHa values in blood samples obtained from left ventricle and femoral artery were determined. On the breathing of the hypoxic gas mixture of the chemodenervated dogs, VT, VE and BP significantly decreased (P < 0.001, P < 0.001, P < 0.01). The mean value of PAP and serotonin levels (ventricular and femoral) were found significantly increased when compared with the corresponding normoxic values (P < 0.001, P < 0.05). On the other hand, injection of KCN produced no significant changes in PAP, serotonin levels, BP and respiratory parameters. After the injection of pizotifen, PAP was significantly increased in hypoxia (P < 0.01). After the injection of methysergide, the response of PAP was completely abolished during the breathing of hypoxic gas mixture. The finding of the abolition of response of PAP to hypoxia after the injection of methysergide indicates that serotonin release from NEB may be responsible for the elevation of PAP in hypoxic hypoxia.
High platelet-serotonin uptake activity is associated with a rapid response in depressed patients treated with amitriptyline.	Based on the assumption that there is a biological basis behind the individual differences in the speed with which an antidepressant produces its therapeutic effects, we compared initial serotonin (5HT) uptake characteristics in platelets of rapid (2 weeks), slow (4 weeks) and non-responders in a group of 47 depressed patients who were treated with amitriptyline for at least 4 weeks. A response was defined as a reduction in the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale score of > or =50% from baseline. In 16 rapid responders, a significantly higher mean 5HT uptake efficiency (Vmax/Km) corresponded with a significantly higher 5HT uptake activity at a low, physiological substrate concentration in comparison with the 15 non-responders or the 16 slow responders (33.1+/-7.8 versus 25.5+/-7.7 versus 24.1+/-5.8 pMol [3H]-5HT/10(9) plat. x 5 min, respectively). The findings indicate that pre-treatment 5HT uptake activity contributes to the individual variability in response time to amitriptyline treatment.
Neurochemical and psychotropic effects of bupropion in healthy male subjects.	Bupropion is a weak inhibitor of noradrenaline (NE) and dopamine (DA) reuptake and has no direct action on serotonin (5-HT) neuronal elements. In the rat brain, bupropion suppresses NE neuron firing activity via the activation of alpha(2)-adrenoceptors and increases that of 5-HT neurons through an indirect action on NE neurons. Twenty-five healthy young male volunteers, with no previous history of psychiatric disorders, were randomized to one of four 7-day regimens: placebo, bupropion (150 mg) once daily, bupropion (150 mg) twice a day, and methylphenidate SR (20 mg daily). To assess the activity of the NE reuptake process, the blood pressure response to intravenous tyramine was determined. A decrease in the systolic pressure response to tyramine was considered evidence of NE reuptake inhibition. Effects on 5-HT reuptake were assessed by measuring whole blood 5-HT concentration, with a decrease serving as an index of 5-HT reuptake blockade. The Profile of Mood States (POMS) scale was used to assess behavioral and psychological changes. Neither bupropion nor methylphenidate altered the tyramine pressor response, in contrast to previous data that demonstrated decreases were obtained with NE reuptake inhibitors. Neither drug modified 5-HT concentrations. However, POMS scores revealed that bupropion at a dosage of 150 mg/day increased composedness, agreeability, and energy, whereas 300 mg/day improved only attention. In contrast, methylphenidate improved only energy. These data provide no evidence that bupropion acts as an inhibitor of NE or 5-HT reuptake in healthy humans. Presumably it enhances synaptic availability of NE by increasing release. Yet, because its behavioral profile is different from that of methylphenidate, it may not share all the biochemical properties of psychostimulants.
Serotonin and experimental pain in healthy young volunteers.	The role of serotonin in the modulation of nociceptive input has been widely studied, and a link between serum serotonin (S-5HT) and pain thresholds elicited in patients with chronic painful pathologies has been shown. In the light of contradictory concepts on pain message modulation by S-5HT, this study tries to define whether S-5HT displays a nociceptive or antinociceptive role in experimental pain evaluation in healthy volunteers.
The platelet-poor plasma 5-HT response to carbohydrate rich meal administration in adult autistic patients compared with normal controls.	There are cumulative data indicating involvement of the 5-HT system in autistic disorder. Most studies examining 5-HT function have focused on whole blood 5-HT content. The carbohydrate-rich meal test (CRMT) is a dietary manipulation that could significantly influence platelet-poor plasma (PPP) 5-HT levels and reflect the responsiveness of the serotonergic system in 'free' plasma. In this study, CRMT was used as an indicator of 5-HT responsivity in drug-free adults with autistic disorder (n = 7), compared with normal controls (n = 10). The PPP 5-HT levels were measured at baseline and during 3 h after administration of the CRMT. A significant elevation in PPP 5-HT levels in adult autistic patients was reached 60 min after meal administration (p < 0.03 vs control and p = 0.05 vs baseline) and a significant decrease was noted after 120 min (p < 0.01 vs baseline). In contrast to the biphasic response of the autistic patients, normal controls exhibited a gradual linear increase of PPP 5-HT levels. Our results indicate that in adult autistic patients, the pattern of PPP 5-HT responsivity to a dietary challenge of CRMT is dysregulated compared with normal controls and provide further support for the role of 5-HT in autism.
Personality features and platelet 3H-imipramine binding.	In an attempt to provide further information on the functions of the serotonergic system in humans, we investigated the possible correlation between a peripheral serotonergic marker, such as platelet 3H-imipramine binding, and the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI) items and scales in a group of 20 healthy subjects. The results showed the presence of significant positive correlation between the maximum binding capacity, a measure of the number of 3H-imipramine sites, and 17 MMPI items suggestive of personality features of self-certainty, feeling of well-being and sense of reality.
Improved diagnosis of carcinoid tumors by measurement of platelet serotonin.	Carcinoid patients are diagnosed biochemically on the basis of increased urinary excretion of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA); urinary and platelet serotonin concentrations are considered to provide complementary information. Using established HPLC methods with fluorometric detection, we evaluated the clinical usefulness of measurements of urinary 5-HIAA and urinary, plasma, and platelet serotonin in 30 consecutive patients with histologically proven carcinoid tumors of fore-, mid-, and hindgut origin before treatment. Ten patients showed no signs of serotonin overproduction; 14 had increased concentrations of urinary 5-HIAA and platelet serotonin; and platelet serotonin, but not urinary 5-HIAA, was increased in 6. None had increased urinary 5-HIAA excretion without an increase in platelet serotonin content. In cases with high rates of tumor serotonin secretion, platelet serotonin reached a maximum and did not correlate with serotonin secretion rate, whereas urinary 5-HIAA was correlated. Increased platelet serotonin was correlated with increased plasma serotonin and with occurrence of carcinoid syndrome. Increased urinary serotonin, allegedly caused by increases in circulating 5-hydroxytryptophan, almost invariably coincided with increased platelet serotonin, but not necessarily with above-normal urinary 5-HIAA excretion. From these results and long-term monitoring of three patients during treatment, we conclude that platelet serotonin is more sensitive than urinary 5-HIAA for detecting carcinoids that secrete only small amounts of serotonin.
Cyclic AMP does not inhibit collagen-induced platelet signal transduction.	The adhesion of platelets to collagen and their activation is the primary event in haemostasis. Following adhesion, platelet aggregation mediated by ADP, thromboxane A2 and thrombin leads to the formation of a platelet plug. It is known that platelet activation by each of these agonists involves an increase in the cytosolic free Ca2+ concentration, and this has been thought to be controlled by cyclic AMP. However, we report here that while signal transduction induced by ADP plus a thromboxane mimetic (U46619), or by thrombin, is inhibited by stimulators of adenylate cyclase such as a prostaglandin I2 (PGI2) analogue (Iloprost), PGD2 and forskolin, elevation of cyclic AMP does not inhibit either platelet adhesion to collagen or the associated Ca2+ mobilization, phosphatidic acid formation or 5-hydroxytryptamine secretion. Furthermore, collagen did not lower elevated levels of cyclic AMP in platelets measured in the presence of both a thromboxane antagonist and an ADP-removing system. The present results are discussed in the context of previous findings.
Hyperserotoninemia and antiserotonin antibodies in autism and other disorders.	This study examined the linkage between elevated blood serotonin in autism and the presence of circulating autoantibodies against the serotonin 5HT1A receptor. Information was also obtained on the diagnostic and receptor specificity of these autoantibodies. Blood serotonin was measured as was inhibition of serotonin binding to human cortical membranes by antibody-rich fractions of blood from controls and from patients with childhood autism, schizophrenia, obsessive-compulsive disorder, Tourette's, and multiple sclerosis. The results showed elevated blood serotonin was not closely related to inhibition of serotonin binding by antibody-rich blood fractions. Inhibition of binding was highest for patients with multiple sclerosis and was not specific to the 5HT1A receptor as currently defined. Although inhibition was not specific to autism, the data were insufficient to establish if people with autism differed from normal controls on this measure.
Cerebrospinal fluid monoamine and adrenal correlates of aggression in free-ranging rhesus monkeys.	Clinical and preclinical studies involving several different mammalian species and research paradigms suggest a negative correlation between aggression and central serotonin activity. To test the generalizability of laboratory findings in rhesus monkeys that show a negative correlation between cerebrospinal fluid 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid concentrations and aggression, we obtained cisternal cerebrospinal fluid and blood plasma samples from monkeys living in naturalistic conditions. During a semiannual trapping, 28 juvenile and adolescent male rhesus monkeys were chosen from a population of 4200 provisioned, free-ranging rhesus monkeys living on Morgan Island, a sea island located off the coast of South Carolina. Based on direct observations of participation or avoidance of aggressive behavior and examinations of apparent fight wounds, 18 monkeys were selected for cerebrospinal fluid taps and blood samples. The remaining 10 monkeys were selected at random. Descriptions of aggressive behavior and the number of old scars and recent wounds were carefully transcribed, and a photograph showing wounds and scars was obtained for each animal. Using the transcriptions and photographs, researchers experienced in rhesus monkey behavior, but blind to the subjects' monoamine and hormone concentrations, were asked to rank the monkeys from the most to the least aggressive. The results showed a significant negative correlation between high rankings for aggression and cerebrospinal fluid 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid concentrations. There was evidence that aggression was associated with stress, in that cerebrospinal fluid, norepinephrine, and plasma corticotropin and cortisol concentrations were positively correlated with high rankings of aggression.
Use of octreotide in the treatment of digestive endocrine tumors. A French multicenter study]	Morbidity and mortality in endocrine gastro-enteropancreatic (GEP) tumours are mainly related to the clinical consequences of tumoral peptide hypersecretion. Surgical resection at an early stage is the only curative treatment. However, most tumours are detected only when the hypersecretory state reflects the presence of metastases; surgery and chemotherapy then give only palliative results counterbalanced by serious side-effects. Somatostatin inhibits most endocrine secretions of the GEP tract and thus can alleviate invalidating symptoms. Its use is limited by its short half-life (2 min), the necessity of i.v. infusion and the possibility of a rebound phenomenon. Octreotide, a synthetic somatostatin analogue with a long duration of action, is administered subcutaneously and allows ambulatory treatment. In our series of 78 patients we observed about 80 percent of excellent or good clinical results, enabling the patients to resume normal life. Only minor and transient side-effects were noted. The overall tolerance of the drug was considered excellent or good. Prolonged administration of octreotide is a safe and effective symptomatic treatment in patients without any restriction of anti-tumoral procedures. Furthermore, it prevents the severe carcinoid crises that occur during surgery or embolization in patients with carcinoid syndromes.
Pituitary-gonadal function in the carcinoid syndrome: effect of parachlorophynylalanine therapy.	Six patients with the carcinoid syndrome (C.S) had serum luteinizing hormone (LH) concentrations that were greater than age and sex matched control subjects. The serum follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and testosterone concentrations of the groups did not differ. Four of the 5 C.S. patients tested had an increase in serum testosterone after human chorionic gonadotropin administration and 5 of the 5 subjects tested had an increase in serum LH after clomiphene citrate administration. One of the 4 subjects treated with the tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor parachlorophenylalanine (PCPA) had a reduction in serum testosterone. He was also receiving methysergide. The other 3 subjects treated with PCPA did not have any persistent alterations in serum testosterone.
Correlations between external respiration function and the blood content of the immune system cells in hyperventilation ]	Relations between hyperventilation, hyperventilation syndrome (HVS) and bronchial asthma (BA) are not finally established. This study modelled HVS in 92 volunteers to investigate HVS effect on external respiration function (ERF), immune status and hormonal and amino regulation. HVS was found to induce significant shifts in regulating systems (adrenergic, cholinergic, serotoninergic, conticosteroids) function and to alter correlations between ERF and blood levels of immune cells carrying various CD- and HLA-DR markers. The HVS model can be used for the study of HV role in immunopathogenesis of BA.
Atypical antipsychotics and the relevance of glutamate and serotonin.	In the present study, including 66 schizophrenic patients and 73 healthy controls, the effect of atypical antipsychotic treatment over a period of 14 weeks on psychotic symptoms and plasma levels of glutamate and monoaminergic metabolites was investigated. Treatment induced a modest reduction of psychotic symptoms in 42% of the patients (response criterion: Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale [BPRS] decrease >/=40%). Poor response was associated with severity of psychopathology, age and duration of disease. Glutamate at baseline was significantly higher in patients as compared to controls (p<0.01). During treatment, a significant further increase of glutamate, not related to response, was observed. Glutamate levels correlated significantly with negative symptom scores at baseline and weeks 3, 6 and 14 (p<0.05). At baseline, serotonin (5-HT) in plasma and 5-HT in platelets were significantly lower in the poor responders as compared to controls (p<0.05) and increased significantly during treatment (p<0.05). In the responders, treatment coincided with a decrease of 5-HT parameters. No differences in plasma levels of HVA, 5-HIAA and their ratio were observed between controls and response groups. The results of this study suggest an effect of atypical antipsychotics on glutamatergic neurotransmission and an association between lower pretreatment peripheral 5-HT parameters and response.
The ratio of plasma to whole-blood serotonin may be a novel marker of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.	Because atherosclerotic vascular lesions stimulate platelets, the platelets release serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, aka 5-HT). We therefore measured 5-HT concentrations not only in platelet-poor plasma but also in whole blood as a means of assessing vascular lesions. The plasma concentration of 5-HT tended to increase with age, whereas that in whole blood decreases. Therefore the ratio of the plasma to the whole-blood concentration of 5-HT (P/WB) increases with age. This may be a result of the activation of platelets in older subjects with atherosclerotic vascular damage. Patients who underwent coronary angiography (CAG) were classified into 4 groups according to diagnosis: effort-induced angina pectoris (eAP), old myocardial infarction (OMI), vasospastic angina pectoris (VSAP), and unstable angina (uAP). The mean plasma 5-HT concentration was significantly (P <.01) greater in patients with eAP, uAP, OMI, and VSAP than in healthy controls, whereas the concentration in whole blood was lower in patients with eAP than in healthy controls. When the P/WB ratios were calculated, the mean levels in all disease groups were significantly higher than that in the healthy controls. These findings suggested that 5-HT is released into the plasma from the platelets and that the concentration in the platelets decreases in patients with atherosclerosis.
Relationship between parameters of serotonin transport and antidepressant plasma levels or therapeutic response in depressive patients treated with paroxetine and amitriptyline.	In a double-blind clinical study, antidepressant plasma levels, parameters of platelet serotonin (5-HT) transport (Km, Vmax and basal platelet 5-HT content) and therapeutic response were measured in depressive patients treated with either paroxetine (30 mg/day) or amitriptyline (150 mg/day) for 6 weeks. No correlation could be found between paroxetine plasma levels and therapeutic outcome after 2, 4 and 6 weeks of treatment. In contrast to the amitriptyline group, a marked increase in Km from baseline to week 2 was determined in paroxetine-treated patients, with Km increase being correlated with paroxetine plasma levels at week 2. However, no significant relationship could be found between 5-HT transport parameters and any of the outcome measures in either treatment group.
Effect of fondaparinux on platelet activation in the presence of heparin-dependent antibodies: a blinded comparative multicenter study with unfractionated heparin.	Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is a complication of heparin therapy caused by antibodies against a complex of platelet factor 4 and heparin. Fondaparinux (Arixtra) is a new synthetic selective factor Xa inhibitor. We performed a serologic study to determine the cross-reactivity of HIT sera with fondaparinux. Using a prospective, blinded study design, 39 clinically and serologically confirmed sera from patients with HIT and 15 control sera were sent to 3 different laboratories, each of which specialized in a particular HIT assay. These include the serotonin release assay, heparin-induced platelet agglutination assay, and platelet aggregation assay. Two of 82 assays (2.4%) performed in the presence of control sera were positive, both with unfractionated heparin. In the presence of HIT sera, 75 of 94 (79.8%) evaluable assays were positive with unfractionated heparin; fondaparinux was significantly (P < .001) less reactive than unfractionated heparin, only 3 of 91 evaluable assays (3.3%) being positive. Using flow cytometry, unlike unfractionated heparin, fondaparinux did not induce the binding of PAC1 and anti-CD62 monoclonal antibodies or of annexin V to platelets with HIT sera. Together, these results suggest that fondaparinux is nonreactive to HIT sera and raise the possibility that the drug may be used for prophylaxis and treatment of thrombosis in patients with a history of HIT.
Whole blood serotonin and platelet activation in depressed post-myocardial infarction patients.	Depression is an independent risk factor for post myocardial infarction (MI) mortality. Abnormalities in platelet function have been proposed as one of the mechanisms involved in increased cardiovascular risk among patients with depression post-MI. Depression in somatically healthy patients has been associated with increased platelet activation. Some but not all studies showed changes in blood serotonin level. Increased platelet activation and blood serotonin level have been associated with increased risk of cardiac events in patients with MI. The goal of this study was to investigate whether 1) depressed post-MI patients have higher markers of platelet activation as measured by plasma levels of beta-thromboglobulin (betaTG), platelet factor 4 (PF4) and soluble CD40 ligand (sCD40L) and higher serotonin (5-HT) levels than non-depressed post-MI patients and 2) treatment with the antidepressant mirtazapine decreases platelet activation. In this study, 25 depressed post-MI patients were asked for blood collection before start as well as after 8 weeks treatment with mirtazapine or placebo. The control group (n=22) consisted of non-depressed post-MI patients, matched for age, gender and time elapsed since MI. Plasma levels of betaTG, PF4 and sCD40L were not statistically different between the groups, but 5-HT levels were significantly higher in depressed patients. Treatment with mirtazapine resulted in a non-significant decrease in betaTG and PF4 and platelet 5-HT levels. Platelet and whole blood 5-HT, but not platelet activation was significantly increased in depressed post-MI patients. Treatment with mirtazapine showed a non-significant decrease in platelet activation and platelet 5-HT.
Association of psychosocial factors and platelet 5-HT with peptic ulcer]	To scrutinize the association of psychosocial factors especially emotional factors with peptic ulcer.
The content of biogenic amines in the lymphocytes in bronchial asthma]	Serum serotonin and histamine were examined for their effects on lymphocytic dystrophic processes. During an exacerbation, there was an increase in the plasma concentration of biogenic amines (BGA) in patients with atopic and infective-and-allergic bronchial asthma. The elevated levels of BGA affected the activity of lymphocytes that were, on an exacerbation, in the functional stress accompanied by a derangement of adaptive processes that ended in cell dystrophy.
Short term exposure to 1439 MHz pulsed TDMA field does not alter melatonin synthesis in rats.	The widespread use of the mobile phone has initiated many studies on the possible adverse effects of a high frequency electromagnetic field (EMF), which is used in mobile phones. A low frequency EMF is reported to suppress melatonin synthesis. The aim of this study was to clarify the effects on melatonin synthesis in rats after short term exposure to a 1439 MHz time division multiple access (TDMA) EMF. The average specific absorption ratio (SAR) of the brain was 7.5 W/kg, and the average SARs of the whole body were 1.9 and 2.0 W/kg for male and female rats, respectively. A total of 208 male and female rats were investigated. After acclimatization to a 12 h light-dark (LD) cycle, serum and pineal melatonin levels together with pineal serotonin level under a dark condition (less than 1 lux) were examined by radioimmunoassay. No significant differences in melatonin and serotonin levels were observed between the exposure, sham, and cage control groups. These results suggest that short term exposure to a 1439 MHz TDMA EMF, which is about four times stronger than that emitted by mobile phones, does not alter melatonin and serotonin synthesis in rats. Further investigations on the effects of long term exposure are warranted.
Platelet serotonin uptake and paroxetine binding among allelic genotypes of the serotonin transporter in alcoholics.	Expression rates of long (L) and short (S) alleles of the serotonin (5-HT) transporter (5-HTT) gene have been shown to differ under various circumstances. We compared 5-HTT uptake (function) level and paroxetine binding (density) in platelets of alcoholics as indices of 5-HTT expression rate among LL, LS, and SS genotypes. Concentration curves of [3H]5-HT and [3H]paroxetine were used to quantify the equilibrium constant (Km) and maximum 5-HT uptake rate (Vmax) for 5-HTT uptake into intact platelets and the dissociation constant (Kd) and maximum specific binding density (Bmax) for paroxetine binding to platelet membranes, respectively. Genotypes were determined using electrophoresis with fluorescent markers. Vmax for 5-HTT uptake did not correlate with Bmax for paroxetine binding (r=-0.095, P=0.415). Means of Vmax and Bmax did not differ in a statistically significant manner among LL, LS, and SS genotypes in these alcoholic subjects. However, Vmax for LL and SS appeared to have a bimodal distribution, so the percentage of subjects with Vmax <200 fmol/min-10(7) platelets was statistically significantly higher in LL than in SS (51.5% vs. 22.7%, respectively), with an odds ratio of 3.6 (P<0.05). The percentage of Vmax <200 fmol/min-10(7) platelets for LS was 39.3% (not significant vs. LL or SS). Previous studies of healthy human controls have shown that 5-HTT density in raphe nuclei and 5-HTT uptake in platelets are higher in the LL genotype than in S carriers. Our findings in currently drinking alcoholics support the hypothesis that those with the LL genotype of the 5'-HTTLPR region of the 5-HTT gene have reduced 5-HTT function.
Serotonergic disturbances in autistic disorder: L-5-hydroxytryptophan administration to autistic youngsters increases the blood concentrations of serotonin in patients but not in controls.	Some studies have suggested that disorders in the peripheral and central metabolism of serotonin (5-HT) may play a role in the pathophysiology of autistic disorder. This study examines the whole blood concentrations of 5-HT and 5-hydroxy-indoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) in baseline conditions and during a challenge with L-5-OH-tryptophane (5-HTP; 4 mg/kg in non enteric-coated tablets), the precursor of 5-HT, in a study group of 18 male, post-pubertal, Caucasian autistic patients (age 13-19 y.; I.Q.>55) and 20 matched healthy volunteers. In baseline conditions, no significant differences in 5-HT or 5-HIAA levels could be found between autistic youngsters and normal controls. 5-HTP administration significantly increased the levels of 5-HT in autistic youngsters but not in normal controls. Following 5-HTP challenge the 5-HT levels were significantly higher in autistic patients than in healthy volunteers. After challenge with 5-HTP, no significant differences were found in the concentrations of 5-HIAA or the test substance between autistic youngsters and normal controls. Differences in the peripheral metabolism of 5-HT which may not be observed in baseline conditions but which became clear after loading with 5-HTP, suggest that an increased synthesis of 5-HT from its precursor 5-HTP might be a one factor responsible for differences in the serotonergic system between autistic post-pubertal youngsters and normal controls.
Hydrogen peroxide triggers activation of human platelets selectively exposed to nonaggregating concentrations of arachidonic acid and collagen.	The effects of H2O2 on platelet function were investigated in vitro and ex vivo. H2O2 (0.5 to 5 mumol/L) alone did not influence platelet function, but when it was combined with subthreshold concentrations of arachidonic acid or collagen, it induced platelet aggregation and serotonin release in a dose-dependent fashion. The increase in platelet aggregation was associated with thromboxane A2 production and was prevented by 100 mumol/L aspirin. The amplification of platelet response by H2O2 was also inhibited 2 hours after 300 mg aspirin was given to healthy subjects. H2O2 alone did not affect intraplatelet Ca++ influx or mobilization but, combined with subthreshold concentrations of arachidonic acid, it increased Ca++ mobilization. In platelets prelabeled with tritiated arachidonic acid, H2O2 induced tritium release in a dose-dependent fashion; this effect was prevented by mepacrine, an inhibitor of the phospholipase A2 enzyme. Platelet function was not affected by using H2O2 in combination with other agonists such as thrombin, calcium ionophore, or adenosine diphosphate. This study suggests that H2O2 triggers activation of platelets preexposed to agonists at subthreshold levels by stimulating arachidonic acid metabolism, likely by stimulating the phospholipase A2 enzyme. The stimulation of platelets by concentrations of H2O2 similar to those released by activated leukocytes may give new insights into the functional cooperation between leukocytes and platelets.
Variation in ITGB3 has sex-specific associations with plasma lipoprotein(a) and whole blood serotonin levels in a population-based sample.	A recent genome-scan identified the Leu33Pro polymorphism in the beta3 integrin (ITGB3) gene as a quantitative trait locus for whole blood serotonin level in a large Hutterite pedigree. Because both the Leu33Pro polymorphism and the serotonin system have been implicated in cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk and treatment response, we studied additional variation in ITGB3 and its relationship to intermediate phenotypes associated with CVD in the same population. We examined associations between 15 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) across ITGB3 and five CVD-related traits in the Hutterites: plasma levels of high density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-c), triglycerides (TG), low density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-c), and lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] and blood pressure or hypertension. Seven of these SNPs in ITGB3 were associated with whole blood serotonin. Among the intermediate CVD-related phenotypes, only Lp(a) was associated with multiple ITGB3 SNPs, five of which were also associated with serotonin. A sex-stratified analysis revealed that the association between ITGB3 and Lp(a) is present only in females, whereas the association between ITGB3 and serotonin is concentrated in males. Our results suggest that variation in ITGB3 in addition to Leu33Pro could contribute to susceptibility to CVD and serotonin in a sex-specific manner.
Effects of an intense training on functional activity of 5-HT(1B) receptors in human peripheral blood lymphocytes.	Serotonin (5-HT) is a neurotransmitter and an immune modulator. At the periphery, the serotonergic system appears to possess a regulatory activity via 5-HT 1B receptors. The present study investigated the effects of a 5-day military course following 3 weeks of combat training on the functional activity of 5-HT 1B/1D receptors in peripheral blood lymphocytes of male soldiers. The results of [35S]GTPgammaS binding assays showed that h5-HT 1B/1D receptors were desensitized after the training program, although serum 5-HT was unchanged. These data suggest the existence of a control on T cells mediated through h5-HT 1B/1D receptors leading cytokine production modulation after a physical training.
Serotonin release into plasma during common carotid artery thrombosis in rats.	We have tested the hypothesis that platelet-derived serotonin is released into the bloodstream during cerebrovascular thrombosis.
Ester and amide derivatives of E64c as inhibitors of platelet calpains.	Ester and amide derivatives of E64c, (+)-(2S,3S)-3-[[(S)-3-methyl-1- [(3-methylbutyl)carbamoyl]butyl]carbamoyl]-2-oxiranecarboxylic acid, an inhibitor of calpains, were synthesized and tested for ability to inhibit calpain in lysed cells, ability to enter intact cells, and ability to inhibit calpain in intact cells. The esters were from halogen-substituted alcohols and alcohols with increasing size. There were no appreciable differences in the inhibitory potency of any of the halogen-substituted esters from ethyl to trifluoroethyl, indicating that ease of hydrolysis of this class of ester is not important for activity. The only ester with impaired activity was the largest, Z-leucyl-norleucyl, which was about 5% as effective as the ethyl ester, E64d. Amides of amino acid esters also had impaired activity. To explore the possibility of targeting E64c derivatives to specific cells, esters and amides of E64c with 5-hydroxytryptamine were tested on the rationale that the active 5-hydroxytryptamine uptake mechanism of platelets might selectively concentrate the drug in platelets. Both the ester and amide inhibited calpain in lysed cells, but only the ester inhibited in intact cells. The 5-hydroxytryptamine ester showed no advantage over the ethyl ester in entering platelets.
Biochemical measures in patients with a somatoform pain disorder, before, during, and after treatment with amitriptyline with or without flupentixol.	The possible relationship between a number of biochemical parameters and measures of pain and depression was studied in chronic pain patients without a major depression. In a double-blind crossover study, patients were treated with amitriptyline combined with a low dose of flupentixol or placebo. We investigated whether pretreatment biochemical values correlated with initial data on pain and/or depression, or whether they had predictive value for treatment outcome. We also studied systematically the effect of both treatment regimes on the biochemical parameters themselves and their relation to the plasma levels of amitriptyline. From our results, the possible involvement of the serotonin system in somatoform pain disorder is confirmed and no direct relation with the noradrenergic system could be inferred. The lack of involvement of a number of putative, depression-related, biochemical parameters suggests that affective disorders and pain syndromes do not share all mechanisms in common.
Biochemical mechanisms of neurotoxic reactions to antibacterial preparations in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis]	Examination comprising the electrophysiologic method and study of the biochemical parameters of the antioxidant/lipid peroxidation system and metabolism of biologic amines in 163 patients with infiltrative pulmonary tuberculosis has revealed a clear interaction existing between the functional changes of the CNS state, the state of antioxidative defense (alpha-tocopherol) and serotonin. This allows an assumption that the antioxidant/lipid peroxidation system and serotoninergic system actively participate in the pathogenesis of development of neurotoxic reactions to antibacterial preparations in the clinical picture of tuberculosis.
Hyperprolactinaemia and hyperserotoninaemia: their relationship to seminal quality.	Seminal quality and levels of blood serotonin (5-HT) and serum prolactin (PRL) were determined in 60 men attending an infertility service. Subjects were grouped according to normal or abnormal accessory sex gland function. Subjects with normal accessory sex gland function were further subdivided into groups with asthenozoospermia, polyzoospermia, normozoospermia, oligozoospermia, or azoospermia. Blood 5-HT levels were significantly higher in oligozoospermics (115.9 +/- 23.7 ng ml-1, P less than 0.05), and asthenozoospermics (90.0 +/- 8.2 ng ml-1, P less than 0.05), than in normals (68.5 +/- 5.3 ng ml-1), whereas serum PRL levels were higher in azoospermics (44.2 +/- 4.7 ng ml-1) than in normozoospermics (15.9 +/- 1.6 ng ml-1, P less than 0.01). Subjects with abnormal accessory sex gland function were also subdivided according sperm count and sperm motility categories. None of these subgroups showed differences in serum PRL levels or blood 5-HT levels. Men with hyperserotoninaemia had higher serum PRL levels, low sperm count, and low motile sperm concentration. Moreover, higher 5-HT levels may be observed in men with normal PRL levels and also associated with normal PRL levels and with hyperprolactinaemia, and hyperprolactinaemia may be observed also associated with normal serotonin levels. Hyperserotoninaemia was related to both diminished sperm count and sperm motility, whereas hyperprolactinaemia was related to low sperm count. When hyperprolactinaemia and hyperserotoninaemia were both present, additive effects were observed.
Inhibition by albumin of merocyanine 540-mediated photosensitization of platelets and viruses.	The effect of the photosensitizer merocyanine 540 (MC 540) on platelets and on three marker viruses was examined to assess its potential in reducing virus transmission by blood products. The results demonstrated several deleterious effects of MC 540 (4-24 micrograms/mL) on platelet morphology and function in both the absence and presence of light (450-600 nm). Treatment of washed platelets with MC 540 in the dark resulted in a significant release of serotonin in the absence of added agonist, as well as a diminished response to thrombin as measured in vitro. In addition, photosensitization caused spontaneous platelet aggregation and release of 92 percent of the releasable serotonin without the addition of an agonist. Because photo-treatment of blood products is likely to be performed in a protein-rich medium, the influence of albumin on the phototoxic effects on platelets was assessed. Albumin added to the suspension medium at concentrations greater than or equal to 1.0 percent protected the platelets against the effects of MC 540 in the dark, whereas 5-percent albumin was required for protection against the phototoxic effects of MC 540 on the platelet response to thrombin. The antiviral activity of MC 540 and light was examined by using the lipid-containing viruses herpes simplex virus (HSV) and bacteriophages phi 6 and PM2. Of the lipid-enveloped viruses, HSV was 25 times more photosensitive to MC 540 than was phi 6 (15 micrograms/mL). PM2, which has an internal lipid layer, was almost 300 times less sensitive to MC 540 and light than was HSV.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The relationship between whole-blood serotonin and subjective mood in apparently healthy postmenopausal women.	The aim of this research has been to determine the degree to which biochemical indices of mood reflect subjective mood. Potential relationships between whole-blood (WB) serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) levels as determined by the positive and negative affect schedule (PANAS) have been explored in apparently healthy postmenopausal women (n=39). Partial correlations indicated that WB 5-HT was positively associated with positive affect (p=0.03). No association was apparent for negative affect. These findings indicate that WB 5-HT and positive affect are related in postmenopausal women.
Variation in ITGB3 is associated with whole-blood serotonin level and autism susceptibility.	Autism is a pervasive developmental disorder affecting more males than females. Heritability estimates for autism can rise above 90%, and genes influencing the serotonin system are strong candidates for autism susceptibility genes, as drugs selectively acting on the serotonin system are some of the most effective treatments for maladaptive behaviors seen in autism. ITGB3 was recently identified as a male quantitative trait locus (QTL) for whole-blood serotonin levels in the Hutterites (P = 0.0003). Here, we demonstrate associations between variation in ITGB3 and serotonin levels in two outbred samples (P = 0.010 and 0.015). Lastly, we show that a coding variant of ITGB3 is associated with autism susceptibility in a large multiplex sample (P = 0.00082), and that this variation has different effects in males and females (P = 0.0018).
Platelet serotonin and serum lipids in psychotic mania.	The role of serotonergic system and lipid status in the etiology of mania and its subtypes is not clear. The aims of the study were to determine platelet serotonin (5-HT) concentration, platelet monoamine oxidase (MAO) activity, and serum total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL) and triglycerides (TG) in patients with psychotic and nonpsychotic subtypes of mania and in healthy control subjects.
Carcinoid tumors.	Carcinoid tumors can present a difficult diagnostic and therapeutic dilemma. Despite their reputation as indolent tumors, they frequently metastasize and can cause significant symptomatology. The only curative therapy remains surgical resection. The prognosis and treatment of carcinoids vary based on location and histology, and therapy must be tailored to each patient.
Comparative study of the activity/rest rhythms in young and old ringdove (Streptopelia risoria): correlation with serum levels of melatonin and serotonin.	Aging is characterized by changes in the circadian rhythms of melatonin, serotonin, and sleep/wakefulness, alterations that affect sleep quality. The authors studied the circadian rhythms of serotonin and melatonin in young and old ringdoves (Streptopelia risoria) (2-3 and 10-12 yrs old, respectively), animals that are characterized by being monophasic and active by day, like humans. The aim was to correlate the indole rhythms with the animals' activity/rest periods. The animals were kept under a 12:12 h light/dark cycle, fed ad libitum, and housed in separate cages equipped for activity recording. Activity pulses were recorded with one actometer per animal (two perpendicular infrared transmitters) and were logged every 15 min by a computer program (DAS 16) throughout the experiment. Melatonin was measured by radioimmunoassay and serotonin by ELISA at intervals of 3 h (from 09:00 to 18:00 h) and 1 h (from 21:00 to 06:00 h), respectively. The results showed a reduction in nocturnal vs. diurnal activity of 89% and 61% in the young and old animals, respectively, with 100% considered to be the diurnal activity of each group. The amplitude of a cosine function fit to the melatonin concentrations of the old animals was half that of the young birds. The acrophase and nadir were at 02:00 and 14:00 h in the young and 01:00 and 13:00 h in the old animals, respectively. The amplitude of the corresponding cosine function fit to the serotonin concentrations in the old birds was one-third that of the young animals. The acrophase and nadir were at 15:00 and 03:00 h in the young and 16:00 and 04:00 h in the old animals, respectively. For both melatonin and serotonin, the concentrations in the young animals were significantly higher than in the old at most of the measurement times. There was a clear negative correlation between the circadian rhythms of activity and the serum melatonin levels in both young and old animals. The equivalent correlation for serotonin was positive, and stronger in the case of the young animals. The results suggest a possible relationship between the observed decline in the amplitude of the old animals' melatonin and serotonin rhythms and the lower percentage reduction in their nocturnal relative to diurnal activity pulses compared to the young animals. In conclusion, the circadian rhythms of melatonin and serotonin undergo alterations with age that could be involved in the changes in age-associated sleep.
High-performance liquid chromatography separations coupled with coulometric electrode array detectors: a unique approach to metabolomics.	Metabolomics is the systematic and theoretically comprehensive study of the small molecules that comprise a biological sample, e.g., sera or plasma. The primary analytical tools used in metabolomics are nuclear magnetic resonance and mass spectroscopy. We here address a different tool, high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) separations coupled with coulometric electrode array detection. This system has unique advantages, notably sensitivity and high quantitative precision, but also has unique limitations, such as obtaining little structural information on the metabolites of interest and limited scale-up capacity. The system also only detects redox-active compounds, which can be either a benefit or a detriment, depending on the experimental goals and design. Here, we discuss the characteristics of this HPLC/coulometric electrode array system in the context of metabolomics, and then present the method as practiced in our groups.
Response of plasma and gastrointestinal melatonin, plasma cortisol and activity rhythms of European sea bass (Dicentrarchus labrax) to dietary supplementation with tryptophan and melatonin.	Melatonin is an effective antioxidant, immunostimulant, gonadal maturating regulator and antistress indoleamine that may be potentially useful for fish farmers. We have explored two possible ways of increasing plasma melatonin levels through the diet: direct melatonin supplementation (ME diet) and supplementation with the melatonin precursor tryptophan (TRP diet). To this end, a group of sea bass was fed a commercial diet (STD diet) at a regular time for 16 days, after which plasma, intestine, and bile samples were taken at four different time points: 120 min before, and 15, 180 and 480 min after feeding. Locomotor activity, intestinal and biliary melatonin, and plasma melatonin, serotonin and cortisol levels were measured. This same sampling process and analyses were also carried out after feeding sea bass TRP diet or ME diet for 1 week. Our results show that melatonin, but not tryptophan supplementation of the diet increases plasma, intestine and bile levels of melatonin. Plasma serotonin levels, on the other hand, were increased by dietary tryptophan, but not by melatonin, confirming the availability of supplemented tryptophan for serotonin synthesis. Both treatments were equally effective in reducing the high cortisol levels observed with the STD diet.
Serotonin and platelet activation during treatment with isradipine.	The effect of the calcium antagonist isradipine on serotonin metabolism and platelet aggregation was studied in 17 patients with essential hypertension. Platelet serotonin content, plasma serotonin, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid levels, and platelet aggregation [induced ex vivo by serotonin and low-density lipoprotein (LDL)] were measured after a 4-week placebo period and after 12 weeks of oral treatment with isradipine. Isradipine treatment significantly inhibited platelet aggregation induced by LDL and serotonin; the amplifying effect of LDL on serotonin-induced aggregation seen with placebo was not observed after 12 weeks of treatment with isradipine. Platelet serotonin content increased significantly during isradipine treatment; this increase was inversely related to the pretreatment content of serotonin in platelets. The results indicate that treatment with isradipine restores the impaired handling of platelet serotonin as well as the platelet response to serotonin and LDL in hypertensive patients. This effect of isradipine may be regarded as one of the cellular mechanisms of thrombovascular protection and may be of clinical significance in terms of platelet and vessel wall interaction.
Dual polymorphisms in UDP-glucuronosyltransferases 1A1 and 1A6: a novel mechanism for hyperserotoninaemia in Gilbert's syndrome mimicking carcinoid syndrome?	Gilbert's syndrome is a common inherited disorder, in which genetic defects in uridine diphosphate-glucuronosyltransferase 1A1 lead to deficient glucuronidation of bilirubin and hence hyperbilirubinaemia. Although usually considered asymptomatic, Gilbert's syndrome can be associated with gastrointestinal and psychiatric symptoms unexplained by the metabolic defect. Genetic polymorphism of a closely related enzyme, uridine diphosphate-glucuronosyltransferase 1A6, results in altered metabolism and elimination of serotonin. On the basis of a case of hyperserotoninaemia in the absence of a detectable carcinoid tumour in a patient with Gilbert's syndrome, who presented with a history of night sweats, flushing, abdominal discomfort and intermittent diarrhoea, we propose that in a subgroup of Gilbert's syndrome patients, homozygocity for dual uridine diphosphate-glucuronosyltransferase 1A1 and uridine diphosphate-glucuronosyltransferase 1A6 polymorphisms may lead to combined hyperbilirubinaemia and hyperserotoninaemia. The latter may account for symptoms experienced by patients with Gilbert's syndrome hitherto considered unrelated to, or unexplainable by, the known defect in bilirubin metabolism.
Orally administered melatonin improves nocturnal rest in young and old ringdoves (Streptopelia risoria).	Melatonin possesses chronobiotic properties, which affects sleep/wake rhythms. We investigated a 7-day administration of melatonin (0.25, 2.5 and 5 mg/kg body weight) on the activity/rest rhythms of a diurnal animal (the ringdove, Streptopelia risoria), aged 2-3 (young) and 10-12 (old) years, and its possible relationship with the serum levels of melatonin and serotonin. Total nocturnal and diurnal activity pulses were logged at basal, during, and up to 7 days after the treatments. The animals received 0.1 ml of melatonin orally 1 hr before lights off. The results showed that the administration of whichever melatonin dose decreased both diurnal and nocturnal old ringdove activity, the reduction being larger at night. The young animals also reduced their nocturnal activity with all three melatonin concentrations, whereas their diurnal activity only decreased with the 2.5 and 5 mg/kg body weight treatments. We chose those treatments that gave the best results in terms of nocturnal rest and the least affected diurnal activity (0.25 mg/kg body weight and 2.5 mg/kg in the young and old animals, respectively). Serum melatonin was measured by radioimmunoassay and serotonin by ELISA. In both age groups, the treatment increased both nocturnal and diurnal melatonin levels, with the effect continuing until 1 day after the last dose. Serum serotonin levels were unaffected by the treatments in either age group. The treatment restored the amplitude of the serum melatonin rhythm in the old animals to that of the young group. In summary, treatment with melatonin may be appropriate to improve nocturnal rest, and beneficial as a therapy for sleep disorders.
Clinical significance of 2,3-biphosphoglyceric acid content in erythrocytes of patients with chronic pulmonary heart disease]	The author gives in the article obtained data reflecting the content of 2,3-biphosphoglyceric acid in erythrocytes of patients with chronic lung heart. A comparative analysis of the content of 2,3-biphosphoglyceric acid in erythrocytes of healthy volunteers and patients with chronic lung heart was carried out. The author detected the correlation of changes of 2,3-biphosphoglyceric acid in erythrocytes and histamines in blood plasma in chronic lung heart patients with chronic lun diseases and it may be used in assessment and diagnostics of severity of secondary metabolic deran gements.
Serum serotonin level in patients with depression and panic attacks]	Serum serotonin level (SSL) was studied using ELISA method in 21 patients with depression associated with panic attacks (PA) and 15 non-depressed patients (8--with PA, 7--with the autonomous nervous system dysfunction). The authors found significant positive correlation between increased SSL and severity of depression, according to BDI (r = 0.82, r < 0.05). There was no correlation with other signs of the disease (anxiety, autonomous nervous system parameters). SSL in control group was about 72.6 +/- 10.06 ng/ml, in mild depressed patients--203.41 +/- 26.47 ng/ml, in severe depressed patients--438.58 +/- 36.31 ng/ml (P(1-2) < 0.001; P(2-3) < 0.001). It was proposed to use SSL for verification the depression severity.
Effect of Danzhi Xiaoyao Powder on neuro-immuno-endocrine system in patients with depression]	To observe the effect of Danzhi Xiaoyao Powder (DXP) on neuro-immuno-endocrine system in patients with depression.
Clinical study on "Jin's three-needling" in treatment of generalized anxiety disorder]	To study the clinical effect of "Jin's three-needling" in the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder.
A new spectrofluorimetric method for determination of trace amounts 5-hydroxytryptamine in human urine and serum.	A new spectrofluorimetric method was developed for the determination of trace amount of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) in human urine and serum samples. In the NaAc-HAc buffer solution of pH=5.80, 5-HT can react with formaldehyde-acetylacetone system to form a new compound which sends yellow green fluorescence at 533 nm and the enhanced fluorescence intensity is in proportion to the concentration of 5-HT. Optimum conditions for the determination of 5-HT were also investigated. The dynamic range and detection limit for the determination of 5-HT are 5.35 x 10(-7) approximately 1.07 x 10(-4) mol/L and 2.08 x 10(-7) mol/L, respectively. The developed method is simple, practical and can be successfully applied to determination of 5-HT in human urine and serum samples. Moreover, the enhancement mechanisms of the fluorescence intensity in the 5-HT - formaldehyde-acetylacetone system have been also discussed.
Monitoring the treatment of carcinoid disease using blood serotonin and plasma 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid: three case examples.	The results for plasma 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), whole blood serotonin and the chromogranins on three patients following their treatment for carcinoid disease with somatostatin analogues are presented. Two of the patients (a 56-year-old woman and a 55-year-old man) demonstrated a good clinical response following treatment, with initial high blood serotonin and plasma 5-HIAA concentrations showing a significant decline. However, blood serotonin concentrations remained above the reference range during the course of treatment, whereas plasma 5-HIAA remained borderline high or marginally elevated with respect to the clinical cut-off concentration. The third patient, a 79-year-old man, demonstrated saturation of platelets with serotonin and increasing elevation of plasma 5-HIAA, which later fell with the introduction of interferon into this patient's treatment regimen. Results for the plasma chromogranin fragments, pancreastatin (Chromogranin A) and GAWK (Chromogranin B), showed a much greater degree of variability in all three cases. This study shows promise for plasma 5-HIAA as a useful marker for monitoring carcinoid disease. The limitations of blood serotonin expressed to the platelet count are highlighted.
Impairment of humoral regulation of exocrine pancreatic function in chronic pancreatitis]	To elicit the role of cholecistokinin (CCK), biogenic amines, bile acids (BA) in development of functional pancreatic insufficiency (PI) in chronic pancreatitis (CP).
Serotonin (5-HT) released by activated white blood cells in a biological fuel cell provide a potential energy source for electricity generation.	Previous studies by our group have demonstrated the ability of white blood cells to generate small electrical currents, on the order of 1-3 microA/cm(2), when placed at the anode compartment of a proton exchange membrane (PEM) biological fuel cell. In this research study, an electrochemical technique is used to further investigate the electron transfer ability of activated white blood cells at interfacing electrodes in an attempt to elucidate the mechanism of electron transfer in the original biological fuel cell experiments. Cyclic voltammograms were obtained for human white blood cells using a three-electrode system. The working and counter electrodes were made from carbon felt and platinum, respectively, while the reference was a saturated calomel electrode (SCE). Oxidation peaks were observed at an average potential of 363 mV vs. SCE for the PMA/ionomycin activated white blood cells in glucose solution. However a corresponding reduction peak was not observed, suggesting irreversibility of the redox reaction. The cyclic voltammograms recorded for the white blood cells bear very close similarities to those of the neurotransmitter serotonin (5-HT). Serotonin released by white blood cells into the extracellular environment may be irreversibly oxidized at the working electrode in the cyclic voltammetry experiments and at the PEM biological fuel cell anode in our earlier electrochemical cell studies.
Interaction of two GPIIb/IIIa monoclonal antibodies with platelet Fc receptor (Fc gamma RII).	We have previously used the IV-3 monoclonal antibody specific for Fc gamma RII to demonstrate that platelet activation by CD9 monoclonal antibodies such as ALB-6 is mediated by the Fc gamma RII. Here, we show that platelet activation following addition of a monoclonal antibody directed against GPIIb/IIIa, P256 is completely blocked by IV-3, as monitored by serotonin release, calcium and pH modifications. However, aggregation was only partially inhibited. D3GP3 is another monoclonal antibody directed against GPIIIa which has been shown to induce platelet aggregation by exposure of the fibrinogen binding site. The present study demonstrates that this phenomenon is not accompanied by calcium flux or pH modification, nor is it blocked by pretreatment of platelet by IV-3. Despite its apparent independence from the Fc gamma RII activation pathway, D3GP3, but not its Fab fragment, was able to inhibit ALB-6 induced activation, including serotonin release, calcium flux and pH modifications. Binding studies demonstrated that D3GP3 (20 micrograms/ml, 0.13 microM) does not block ALB-6 binding to CD9 antigen but completely blocks IV-3 binding to the Fc receptor for concentrations of IV-3 ranging from 0 to 15 nM. Together, these results suggest an interaction between GPIIb/IIIa, Fc gamma RII and GPIIb/IIIa monoclonal antibodies which in some cases can result in activation of platelets through Fc gamma RII.
Relationship of the serotonin transporter with prolactin response to meta-chlorophenylpiperazine in cocaine dependence.	Preclinical evidence indicates that exposure to cocaine influences the activity of the serotonin transporter (5-HTT) as well as several 5-HT receptor subtypes. However, little is known about the relationship between the 5-HTT and 5-HT receptors following cocaine exposure in humans.
Changes of mental stress biomarkers in ultramarathon.	We investigated the possible influence of an exhaustive physical exercise on mental stress biomarkers (serotonin, tryptophan, and beta-endorphin) along with dopamine, noradrenaline and free fatty acids in an ultramarathon race in which 45 km was run on the first day and 90 km on the second. We obtained serum samples at 6 different time points during and after the race from 18 Japanese male runners who completed the marathon. Overall changes of serum serotonin and tryptophan concentrations were statistically significant according to ANOVA for repeated measurements (p < 0.05). Serum serotonin levels elevated rapidly on the first day with the post hoc Tukey's test. Tryptophan concentrations inversely decreased during the race, possibly because of utilization for synthesis of serotonin. Levels of beta-endorphin appeared to increase on the first and second days, but were not statistically significant. In conclusion, serum serotonin, tryptophan and beta-endorphin appeared to be used for mental stress markers in physical exercise.
Topiramate effects on plasma serotonin levels in children with epilepsy.	Topiramate (TPM) is a new, effective and safe antiepileptic drug. TPM is also effective in treating a wide spectrum of conditions such as eating disorders and related anomalies, bulimia nervosa and other conditions in which serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) is involved pathogenetically. Plasma serotonin mainly derives from blood platelets, which represent a valid model of serotoninergic neurons. We measured plasma 5-HT levels in 12 children affected by epilepsy who underwent TPM therapy. Inclusion criteria were (i) age range 2-12 years, (ii) weight greater than 12 kg, (iii) no more than one antiepileptic drug used when TPM therapy was instituted, and (iv) a minimum study period of 3 months. After a mean period of 3 months of TPM treatment, a significant increase in mean plasma serotonin levels was observed with respect to the basal levels and those of a control group. There were no significant correlations between the changes in serotonin concentrations and the antiepileptic efficacy or doses of TPM used. TPM may influence serotonin metabolism in children affected by epilepsy. Further studies are needed to establish whether these serotonin plasma changes represent an epiphenomenon or indicate direct effects of TPM on the serotoninergic system.
Predictors of prophylactic response to lithium]	Since their first utilization in psychiatry as mood stabilizers in the 1940s, lithium salts have been widely studied in the medical literature. The considerable amount of data available to date, supports the use of lithium salts as first-line mood stabilizing agents, with acute antimanic and antidepressant properties and proven efficacy in the long term prevention of manic and depressive relapses.
Effect of tranexamic acid on platelet ADP during extracorporeal circulation.	Seventeen adults received the antifibrinolytic drug tranexamic acid during cardiac surgery utilizing extracorporeal circulation (ECC). In 8 patients, drug administration began prior to skin incision (pre-ECC); infusions commenced after ECC and protamine administration in another 9 patients (post-ECC). Compared with the post-ECC group, the pre-ECC group exhibited less bleeding via mediastinal drains (420 vs. 655 mL/12 h median, P = 0.024), decreased frequency of the presence (greater than or equal to 10 micrograms/mL) of fibrin split products (P less than 0.05), and greater platelet dense granule content of adenosine diphosphate after surgery (15.47 vs. 4.05 nmoles/mg protein median, P = 0.021). Follow-up in vitro study of tranexamic acid inhibition of plasmin-induced platelet activation utilizing normal human platelet rich plasma and porcine plasmin revealed a 13-fold lower concentration of tranexamic acid for 50% inhibition when plasmin was preincubated with the drug (1.2 micrograms/mL, 95% CI = 1.13-1.60 micrograms/mL) compared to when platelet rich plasma was preincubated with the drug (16 micrograms/mL, 95% CI = 7.3-99. micrograms/mL). Plasmin inactivated with tranexamic acid retained its ability to inhibit thrombin-induced platelet activation, thus suggesting that tranexamic acid inhibits plasmin's catalytic activity and not its binding to platelets. Both clot lysis and platelet dysfunction may contribute to bleeding after ECC. Tranexamic acid blocks plasmin-induced partial platelet activation during ECC, thus preserving platelet function and promoting hemostasis after ECC.
Activation of human platelets by exposure to a monoclonal antibody, PM6/248, to glycoprotein IIb-IIIa.	Monoclonal antibody PM6/248, which recognizes the GPIIb-IIIa complex on human platelets, causes platelet aggregation in platelet-rich plasma or in gel-filtered platelet suspensions. Aggregation follows a concentration-dependent lag phase and reaches a maximum at 8 micrograms/ml. High concentrations of antibody (less than 30 micrograms/ml) produce complete inhibition of the aggregation response. Aggregation is accompanied by serotonin secretion and thromboxane A2 synthesis, neither of which are inhibited by high concentrations of antibody, and by the mobilization of intracellular Ca2+. The F(ab')2 fragment of PM6/248 does not cause platelet activation and pre-incubation of platelets with this fragment inhibits all platelet responses stimulated by the whole antibody. Pre-incubation with the F(ab')2 fragment of the anti-Fc gamma RII Mab, IV. 3, also inhibits all responses to PM6/248. These data indicate that platelet activation stimulated by PM6/248 is caused by cross-linking of GPIIb-IIIa to the Fc gamma RII which stimulates signal transduction across the plasma membrane through a conformational change in the Fc gamma RII.
The presence of platelet-activating factor-like activity in human spermatozoa.	Evidence is provided for the existence of platelet-activating factor (PAF)-like activity in the lipid extracts of human spermatozoa. The PAF content of human spermatozoa based on [3H]-serotonin release from washed rabbit platelets was noted to be 1.45 pmol/10(8) sperm cells in highly purified motile spermatozoa. No PAF activity was associated with the seminal fluid. Platelet-activating factor content of spermatozoa may be related to its fertility potential.
A pharmacogenetic study of escitalopram in autism spectrum disorders.	To determine the effect of serotonin transporter polymorphism promoter region (5-HTTPLR) genotypic variation (low, intermediate, and high expression groups) on response to escitalopram treatment of children and adolescents with autism spectrum disorders (ASDs).
Investigation of the role of calpain as a stimulus-response mediator in human platelets using new synthetic inhibitors.	A series of peptidyl diazomethanes and monofluoromethane with structures specific for calpain have been synthesized and tested for their ability to inhibit calpain activity in vivo, using human platelets as a model system. Calpain activity in vivo was determined by observing proteolysis of actin-binding protein and talin, two known substrates of calpain. Very potent inhibitors, which emerged from this study, were used to investigate the role of calpain in some platelet response processes. Our results show that calpain-mediated proteolysis in platelets is not an obligatory event leading to change of cell shape, adhesion to glass and spreading, aggregation and 5-hydroxytryptamine release. Two of the inhibitors were iodinated with 125I and used to radiolabel the enzyme in vivo. To our knowledge, this work also represents the first report describing the affinity labelling of calpain in human platelets using irreversible radioactive inhibitors.
Reduction of serum serotonin precursors after veralipride treatment for postmenopausal hot flushes.	The pathogenesis of hot flushes involves several brain neurotransmitter systems, and changes in serotonin turnover have been hypothesized. Veralipride is an anti-dopaminergic agent that relieves hot flushes and putatively also modulates serotonergic neurons. To further elucidate this relationship, in the present study we evaluated whether administration of veralipride for relief of hot flushes is able to affect serum levels of the serotonin precursor tryptophan in postmenopausal women.
Relationship between seasonal patterns of platelet serotonin uptake and 3H-imipramine binding in depressed patients and normal controls.	1. Significant seasonal variations were found in the velocity of serotonin (Vmax) uptake and the density of 3H-imipramine binding sites (Bmax) in blood platelets from normal controls. 2. Peak 3H-imipramine (3H-IMI) binding was found in February whereas peak serotonin (5HT) uptake was found in June and these measures were not correlated in paired comparisons. 3. Both Vmax and Bmax values of depressed patients deviated from the normal seasonal pattern with lower uptake and binding in the patient group. 4. A comparison of Vmax and Bmax deviations from the normal patterns of uptake and binding revealed a significant correlation between these measures such that patients with low Vmax values were the same as those with low Bmax values. 5. The results support previous claims that the 3H-IMI binding site may be closely associated with, or identical to, a 5HT transport carrier. 6. A significant correlation between uptake and binding further suggests that a common defect may be responsible for observed decreases in Vmax and Bmax values of depressed patients.
Central nervous system bioaminergic responses to mechanical trauma. An experimental study.	Changes in biogenic amines in the brain and spinal cord following penetrating injury were studied in male Wistar rats using high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. Rapid increase in hemispheric concentration of these substances was noted beginning shortly after trauma. This trend continued until they were about three to four times control levels by about 24 to 48 hours postinjury. In the spinal cord, however, there was an initial sharp reduction in regional concentrations 2 hours postinjury followed by a slow rise thereafter. By 48 hours postinjury, levels of norepinephrine, dopamine, and serotonin of the cords of injured animals were still less than those of nontraumatized controls. This variation in the central nervous system bioaminergic response with the level of injury raises questions as to its precise role in neurological damage following mechanical insult.
Effects of amantadine on circulating neurotransmitters in healthy subjects.	Considering that glutamatergic axons innervate the C1(Ad) medullary nuclei, which are responsible for the excitation of the peripheral adrenal glands, we decided to investigate catecholamines (noradrenaline, adrenaline and dopamine) plus indolamines (plasma serotonin and platelet serotonin) at the blood level, before and after a small oral dose of amantadine, a selective NMDA antagonist. We found that the drug provoked a selective enhancement of noradrenaline plus a minimization of adrenaline, dopamine, plasma serotonin and platelet serotonin circulating levels. Significant enhancement of diastolic blood pressure plus reduction of systolic blood pressure and heart rate paralleled the circulating parameter changes. The above findings allow us to postulate that the drug was able to enhance the peripheral neural sympathetic activity. Minimization of both adrenal sympathetic and parasympathetic activities was also registered after the amantadine challenge. The above findings supported the postulation that this drug should be a powerful therapeutic tool for treating diseases affected by adrenal sympathetic hyperactivity.
Serotonin, hypertension and vascular disease.	Circulating 5-hydroxytryptamine (5HT, serotonin) originates in the gastrointestinal tract where it overflows to the blood; part of that serotonin is taken up and stored by the platelets. When the platelets aggregate, the released serotonin feeds back on the platelets to amplify the aggregation process; this amplification can be blocked with 5HT2-serotonergic antagonists. Serotonin is taken up and destroyed by the endothelial cells; these cells also release endothelium-derived relaxing factor (EDRF) when exposed to the monoamine. The release of EDRF evoked by serotonin is not prevented by 5HT2-serotonergic antagonists, and involves a pertussis toxin-sensitive G-protein. When serotonin reaches vascular smooth muscle it usually causes it to contract; this, in most blood vessels, is prevented by 5HT2-serotonergic antagonists. The contractions evoked by serotonin are reduced considerably in the presence of a normal endothelium. The same is true for contractions evoked by aggregating platelets, which release enough serotonin to activate receptors on both the endothelial cells (release of EDRF) and on vascular smooth muscle (contraction). Thus, 5HT2-serotonergic antagonists favour vasodilation not only because they brake the amplifying effect that serotonin exerts on further platelet aggregation, but also because, by blocking the direct activation of the vascular smooth muscle by platelet-released serotonin, they facilitate the occurrence of endothelium-dependent relaxations to the platelet-products. In addition, these compounds may prevent the stimulatory effect of serotonin on the proliferation of vascular smooth muscle.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Substrate and inhibitor binding and translocation by the platelet plasma membrane serotonin transporter.	The Na+ and Cl- dependence of imipramine binding and dissociation were determined in platelet plasma membrane vesicles. Equilibrium imipramine binding affinity depends on Na+ binding to two non-interacting, low-affinity sites. Binding of a single Cl- ion also enhances imipramine affinity. Imipramine dissociation is inhibited by Na+ and Cl-, indicating that both ions can bind after imipramine. Of the two Na+ ions required for imipramine binding, only one is involved in slowing imipramine dissociation, indicating that imipramine binding makes the two Na+ ions non-equivalent. The initial rate of imipramine association is strongly Na(+)-dependent, suggesting that Na+ binds prior to imipramine. Cl-, however, affects imipramine dissociation but not association. Thus, while Na+ and Cl- can bind either before or after imipramine, kinetic considerations impose a most likely binding order of first Na+, then imipramine and finally Cl-. We have confirmed and extended these conclusions using serotonin exchange and efflux measurements. Efflux of radioactivity from vesicles preloaded with [3H]serotonin is stimulated by both external K+ and external unlabelled serotonin. K+ acts to accelerate a step that is rate-limiting for net efflux but that does not involve Na+, Cl- or serotonin translocation. Unlabelled serotonin accelerates radioactivity efflux by exchanging with intravesicular label. This serotonin exchange requires external Cl-, but not external Na+. These results suggest that first Na+, then serotonin and finally Cl- bind from the external medium. Although serotonin exchange requires external Cl-, internal Cl- is not required. These results suggest that translocation does not disturb the spatial order of bound substrates, which dissociate internally in a first-in-first-out order.
Platelet serotonin, a possible marker for familial autism.	Serotonin (5HT) levels in platelet-rich plasma were measured in 5 autistic subjects who had siblings with either autism or pervasive developmental disorder (PDD), 23 autistic subjects without affected siblings, and 10 normal controls. The 5HT levels of autistic subjects with affected siblings were significantly higher than probands without affected siblings, and autistic subjects without affected siblings had 5HT levels significantly higher than controls. Differences in 5HT levels remained significant after adjustment for sex, age, and IQ. These results suggest that 5HT level in autistic subjects may be associated with genetic liability to autism.
Release of (14C)5-hydroxytryptamine from human platelets by red wine.	Red wine, at a final dilution of 1/50, caused release of [14C]5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) from preloaded platelets, an effect which was not observed with any white wines or beers tested. Since 5-HT, is probably released from body stores during migraine attacks and red wine is known to provoke migraine episodes in susceptible individuals, release of 5-HT, possibly from central stores, could represent a plausible mechanism for its mode of action.
Dimethylarginines and serotonin in the blood of spontaneously hypertensive rats.	The serotoninergic system and nitric oxide system were studied in spontaneously hypertensive rats SHR and Wistar rats (control). The contents of serotonin, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (serotonin metabolite), L-arginine, monomethylarginine, and asymmetric and symmetric dimethylarginines were measured in blood plasma. Serotonin content in hypertensive animals was much higher than in Wistar rats. No interstrain differences were found in the concentration of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid. The concentration of asymmetric dimethylarginine in SHR rats was higher than in Wistar rats. However, the concentration of monomethylarginine in SHR rats was lower than in Wistar rats. Our results and published data on the serotoninergic system indicate that SHR rats serve as a convenient model of hypertension.
Levels of serotonin, sclerostin, bone turnover markers as well as bone density and microarchitecture in patients with high-bone-mass phenotype due to a mutation in Lrp5.	Patients with an activation mutation of the Lrp5 gene exhibit high bone mass (HBM). Limited information is available regarding compartment-specific changes in bone. The relationship between the phenotype and serum serotonin is not well documented. To evaluate bone, serotonin, and bone turnover markers (BTM) in Lrp5-HBM patients, we studied 19 Lrp5-HBM patients (T253I) and 19 age- and sex-matched controls. DXA and HR-pQCT were used to assess BMD and bone structure. Serum serotonin, sclerostin, dickkopf-related protein 1 (DKK1), and BTM were evaluated. Z-scores for the forearm, total hip, lumbar spine, forearm, and whole body were significantly increased (mean  SD) between 4.94  1.45 and 7.52  1.99 in cases versus -0.19  1.19 to 0.58  0.84 in controls. Tibial and radial cortical areas, thicknesses, and BMD were significantly higher in cases. In cases, BMD at the lumbar spine and forearm and cortical thickness were positively associated and trabecular area negatively associated with age (r = 0.49, 0.57, 0.74, and -0.61, respectively, p <.05). Serotonin was lowest in cases (69.5 [29.9-110.4] ng/mL versus 119.4 [62.3-231.0] ng/mL, p <.001) and inversely associated with tibial cortical density (r =-0.49, p <.05) and directly with osteocalcin (OC), bone-specific alkaline phosphatase (B-ALP), and procollagen type 1 amino-terminal propeptide (PINP) (r = 0.52-0.65, p <.05) in controls only. OC and S-CTX were lower and sclerostin higher in cases, whereas B-ALP, PINP, tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP), and dickkopf-related protein 1 (DKK1) were similar in cases and controls. In conclusion, increased bone mass in Lrp5-HBM patients seems to be caused primarily by changes in trabecular and cortical bone mass and structure. The phenotype appeared to progress with age, but BTM did not suggest increased bone formation.
Elevated muscle interstitial levels of pain-inducing substances in symptomatic muscles in patients with polymyalgia rheumatica.	Polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) is characterized by aching proximal muscles and systemic inflammation. We explored the pain-eliciting mechanisms by measuring interstitial levels in muscle of potentially pain-inducing substances as well as local blood flow. Twenty glucocorticoid-naive patients with newly diagnosed PMR and 20 controls were examined before and after 14 days of prednisolone (20 mg/day). Concentrations of glutamate, prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)), bradykinin, serotonin, adenosine triphosphate, lactate, pyruvate, and potassium as well as extraction of (3)H(2)O were measured in symptomatic vastus lateralis and trapezius muscles using microdialysis. Plasma levels were measured simultaneously. To be considered potentially pain inducing, interstitial concentrations of candidates should be higher in patients vs. controls, be normalized by prednisolone, and be higher in muscle vs. plasma. Prednisolone abolished symptoms in all patients within 2 days. Before treatment glutamate in both muscles (vastus: 607 vs. 387 mol/L; trapezius: 606 vs. 437 mol/L) and PGE(2) in vastus (911200 vs. 496122 pg/mL) were higher in patients than in controls (P<0.05), and higher in muscle than in plasma (P<0.05). Prednisolone abolished the differences between patients and controls. No other candidate completely fulfilled the predefined requirements for pain-inducing substances in PMR. (3)H(2)O extraction was identical between groups. In conclusion, local release of glutamate and PGE(2), but not ischemia, may contribute to the muscle pain in PMR. This supports the view that intramuscular mechanisms are important in PMR.
Lack of the serotonin transporter (SERT) reduces the ability of 5-hydroxytryptamine to lower blood pressure.	Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) is a potent constrictor of isolated blood vessels. However, recent studies demonstrate that chronic 5-HT infusion results in a prolonged fall in blood pressure in the rat. This finding highlights the need for further study of 5-HT in the cardiovascular system. We tested the hypothesis that a functional serotonin transporter (SERT) is critical to enabling a 5-HT-induced fall in blood pressure. Experiments were performed in male and female rats to determine whether gender significantly affected the ability of 5-HT to lower blood pressure and to determine whether SERT dependence was different in male vs. female rats. 5-HT (25 g/kg/min; s.c.) was infused for 7 days to male and female, SERT wild-type (WT) and SERT knockout (KO) rats. Mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate were monitored via radiotelemetry. 5-HT produced a significantly greater fall in MAP (at the nadir) in the male SERT WT rat (-20  1 mmHg) compared to the male SERT KO rat (-10  2 mmHg). Similarly, 5-HT also produced a significantly greater fall in MAP (at the nadir) in the female SERT WT rat (-19  1 mmHg) compared to the female SERT KO rat (-15  0.4 mmHg). While the lack of a functional SERT protein did not prevent a 5-HT-induced fall in blood pressure, it did reduce the ability of 5-HT to lower blood pressure in the male and female SERT rat, suggesting a potentially important role for SERT in producing a 5-HT-induced fall in blood pressure.
Cortisol, adrenocorticotropic hormone, serotonin, adrenaline and noradrenaline serum concentrations in relation to disease and stress in the horse.	No detailed comparative data are available on the hormonal parameters of horses suffering from a number of diseases. The aim of our study was to measure concentrations of cortisol, adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), serotonin, adrenaline and noradrenaline in horses with various diseases and following surgery, to assess the response of the HPA axis and adrenal medulla. Blood samples were obtained from six groups of horses comprising a total of 119 animals as follows: laminitis, acute abdominal syndrome (AAS), castration surgery, acute diseases, chronic diseases and healthy controls. Serum hormonal concentrations were determined for each group for comparison. Statistically significant differences between all groups and controls were found for cortisol, ACTH (except for castration), serotonin and adrenaline concentrations but only in horses with laminitis and AAS for noradrenaline. No statistically significant differences were found between males and females. The largest changes in the pituitary-adrenal axis activity occurred mainly in acute diseases, laminitis and in the AAS group.
A lack of association between hyperserotonemia and the increased frequency of serum anti-myelin basic protein auto-antibodies in autistic children.	One of the most consistent biological findings in autism is the elevated blood serotonin levels. Immune abnormalities, including autoimmunity with production of brain specific auto-antibodies, are also commonly observed in this disorder. Hyperserotonemia may be one of the contributing factors to autoimmunity in some patients with autism through the reduction of T-helper (Th) 1-type cytokines. We are the first to investigate the possible role of hyperserotonemia in the induction of autoimmunity, as indicated by serum anti-myelin-basic protein (anti-MBP) auto-antibodies, in autism.
Insomnia, platelet serotonin and platelet monoamine oxidase in chronic alcoholism.	Insomnia is a common sleep disorder frequently occurring in chronic alcoholic patients. Neurobiological basis of insomnia, as well as of alcoholism, is associated with disrupted functions of the main neurotransmitter systems, including the serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) system. Blood platelets are considered a limited peripheral model for the central 5-HT neurons, since both platelets and central 5-HT synaptosomes have similar dynamics of 5-HT. Platelet 5-HT concentration and platelet monoamine oxidase type B (MAO-B) are assumed to represent biomarkers for particular symptoms and behaviors in psychiatric disorders. The hypothesis of this study was that platelet 5-HT concentration and platelet MAO-B activity will be altered in chronic alcoholic patients with insomnia compared to comparable values in patients without insomnia. The study included 498 subjects: 395 male and 103 female medication-free patients with alcohol dependence and 502 healthy control subjects: 325 men and 177 women. The effects of early, middle and late insomnia (evaluated using the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale), as well as sex, age and smoking on platelet 5-HT concentration and platelet MAO-B activity were evaluated using one-way ANOVA and multiple regression analysis by the stepwise method. Platelet 5-HT concentration, but not platelet MAO-B activity, was significantly reduced in alcoholic patients with insomnia compared to patients without insomnia. Multiple regression analysis revealed that platelet 5-HT concentration was affected by middle insomnia, smoking and sex, while platelet MAO activity was affected only by sex and age. The present and previous data suggest that platelet 5-HT concentration might be used, after controlling for sex and smoking, as a biomarker for insomnia in alcoholism, PTSD and in rotating shift workers.
Postprandial platelet-poor plasma 5-hydroxytryptamine concentrations during diarrhea and constipation periods of alternatingtype irritable bowel syndrome patients.	Our aim was to measure concentrations of platelet-poor plasma 5-hydroxytryptamine and to assess any relationship with gastrointestinal symptomatology under fasting and fed conditions in alternating-type irritable bowel syndrome during both constipation and diarrhea periods separately. Results of the two periods were compared with each other as well as with the results of the controls.
Serotonin and cortisol as suicidogenic factors in patients with PTSD.	Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) frequently occurs in commorbidity with different mental disorders, including suicidal behaviour. Group of biological factors, including serotonergic system, HPA axis and some genetic factors, are being studied as potential markers, able to differentiate suicidal and non-suicidal behaviour across the group of PTSD patients. This study is examining statistical relation between platelet serotonine concentration and serum cortisole concentration, within the group of PTSD patients with and without attempted suicide, treated at "Sveti Ivan" Psychiatric Hospital in Zagreb. The hypothesis of this study is that periferal biochemical markers are different across the groups of PTSD patients with and without attempted suicide and the group of healthy controls. Our results have shown significantly lower platelet serotonine concentration in PTSD patients with and without suicide behaviour, compared to healthy controls. There are no statistically significant differences of the serum cortisole concentration across observed groups. Our results correspond with those reported by other authors in this area of research, suggesting that platelet serotonine level might be used as potential periferal marker to detect risk of suicidal behaviour in PTSD patients.
Infusion of a lipid emulsion in healthy men decreases the serotonergic response.	Subjects with obesity and insulin resistance display a low response to a serotonergic challenge test. One of the hallmarks of obesity and insulin resistance is elevated plasma free fatty acids (FFAs). We hypothesize that increasing plasma FFA by infusion of a lipid emulsion, may be a contributing component leading to decreased serotonergic responsivity in healthy young men. Ten lean healthy men, 23.6  5.0 years and BMI 22.6  1.9 kg/m(2), were included. Serotonergic responsivity was assessed using the prolactin response to infusion with citalopram, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, which is a validated tool to assess serotonergic tone. All participants received a lipid/heparin emulsion (Intralipid) infusion during 6 h. Saline infusion was used as a control. To evaluate a possible effect of heparin per se on prolactin, four out of the ten subjects also received heparin only during 6 h without the serotonergic challenge test. Plasma prolactin increased by 74.3  15.5% during saline infusion. Intralipid infusion increased plasma FFA from 0.5  0.05 to 2.3  0.2 mmol/l (p < 0.001). The increase in plasma prolactin during Intralipid infusion was significantly lower (39.3  10%; p < 0.001 compared to saline infusion). Heparin infusion per se increased plasma prolactin by 14.0  1.9%. We found that during the Intralipid infusion with concomitant high plasma FFA levels the serotonergic response was decreased in healthy young men. Higher FFA levels may be the mediator of the decreased serotonergic response reported in patients with insulin resistance and obesity.
Alterations on the morphology, nitric oxide synthesis and activity of platelets reproduced in rats as possible biomarkers for depression are reversed by fluoxetine.	Biochemical markers associated with the prognosis of depression in humans are being described in the literature, whereas experimental studies in animal models in search for antidepressant strategies are lacking. The aim of this study was to evaluate platelet morphology, platelet activity and nitric oxide (NO) synthesis as possible biomarkers of depressive-like behavior by using FST alone and in the presence of fluoxetine. Nave rats were compared to those receiving vehicle or fluoxetine at 10mg/kg i.p. in acute, subchronic and chronic administration in the FST. After behavioral assessment, platelets were isolated from blood samples and analyzed by flow cytometry to determine the platelet mitochondrial membrane potential and NO synthesis. In addition, HPLC and electron microscopy were used to examine 5-HT and tryptophan levels and morphology of platelets, respectively. Rats receiving vehicle and exposed to FST showed depressive-like behavior at all the times tested; after chronic FST rats showed a similar pattern of alteration in platelet morphology and in the studied as possible biochemical markers as those previously recognized in depressive humans. Depressive-like behavior in rats exposed to FST was prevented in the presence of fluoxetine administration at all the times tested and associated with the prevention of alterations in platelet morphology, platelet activity and NO synthesis, and/or in 5-HT concentrations. The results of the present study suggest that platelet function and morphology might be relevant markers for the prognosis of depression and the search for functional treatments. Besides, the relevance of FST as model to study this psychiatric illness is reinforced.
Examining autism spectrum disorders by biomarkers: example from the oxytocin and serotonin systems.	Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a heritable but highly heterogeneous neuropsychiatric syndrome, which poses challenges for research relying solely on behavioral symptoms or diagnosis. Examining biomarkers may give us ways to identify individuals who demonstrate specific developmental trajectories and etiological factors related to ASD. Plasma oxytocin (OT) and whole-blood serotonin (5-HT) levels are consistently altered in some individuals with ASD. Reciprocal relationships have been described between brain oxytocin and serotonin systems during development. We therefore investigated the relationship between these peripheral biomarkers as well as their relationships with age.
Mechanisms of high-dose citalopram-induced death in a rat model.	Citalopram, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, is generally considered to be of low toxicity. However, serotonin syndrome, seizures, electrocardiographic abnormalities as well as respiratory failure and death have been described in patients with citalopram overdose. The mechanisms of severe toxicity remain unclear. Our objective was to study the mechanisms of death following high-dose citalopram administration in Sprague Dawley rats. The median lethal dose (MLD) of intraperitoneal (i.p.) citalopram was measured using Dixon & Bruce's up-and-down method at 102 mg/kg. Dose-effect relationships of citalopram-induced clinical features, alterations in arterial blood gas and plethysmography, and disturbances in blood lactate, plasma and platelet serotonin concentrations were studied. Seizures were significantly increased in rats receiving 80% and 120% of citalopram MLD versus controls (p<0.05 and p<0.01, respectively). A significant decrease in body temperature was observed after 90 min in rats treated with doses >60% MLD in comparison to controls (p<0.05). The occurrence of serotonin behavioural syndrome was comparable in all groups. Citalopram administration did not result in significant hypoxemia, hypercapnia and lactate elevation. However, a significant moderate increase in the inspiratory time (p<0.05) accompanied with an expiratory braking was observed. A significant dose-related linear decrease in platelet serotonin and increase in plasma serotonin concentrations were measured (p<0.05). Pre-treatments of rats receiving 120% of citalopram MLD with diazepam (1.77 mg/kg) and cyproheptadine (17.1mg/kg) prevented seizures and death, but propranolol pre-treatment was ineffective. Neuroprotection with diazepam and cyproheptadine was not associated with decreased serotonin plasma concentrations. In conclusion, citalopram-induced deaths resulted from seizures in relation to serotonin release, whilst respiratory and metabolic toxicity was mild. Our observations support the role of serotonin-induced neurotoxicity in citalopram overdose and suggest that cyproheptadine and benzodiazepines, but not beta-blockers, may have a role in the management of citalopram toxicity.
Anterior prefrontal cortex and serotonergic system activation during Zen meditation practice induces negative mood improvement and increased alpha band in EEG]	To gain insight into the neurophysiological mechanisms involved in Zen meditation, we evaluated the effects of abdominal (Tanden) breathing in novices. We investigated hemodynamic changes in the prefrontal cortex (PFC), an ttention-related brain region, using 24-channel near-infrared spectroscopy during a 20-munite session of Tanden breathing in 15 healthy volunteers. We found that the level of oxygenated hemoglobin in the anterior PFC was significantly increased during Tanden breathing, accompanied by a reduction in feeling of negative mood compared to before the meditation session. Electroencephalography (EEG) revealed increased alpha band activity and decreased theta band activity during Tanden breathing. EEG changes were correlated with a significant increase in whole blood serotonin (5-HT) levels. These results suggest that activation of the anterior PFC and 5-HT system may be responsible for the improvement of negative mood and EEG signal changes observed during Tanden breathing.
Signal hyperintensities on brain magnetic resonance imaging in patients with primary Sjgren syndrome and frequent episodic tension-type headache: relation to platelet serotonin level and disease activity.	To examine differences in number and size of signal hyperintensities (SH) on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) between patients with primary Sjgren syndrome (pSS) and controls who all had frequent episodic tension-type headache (FETH), and to investigate their relation to platelet serotonin level (PSL), patient age, disease duration, and activity.
The serotonin and the bone assessment.	Lately, the in vitro and in vivo studies on serotonin metabolism pointed their influence in bone health. In addition, there are no particular recommendations in performing the serum serotonin assessment in order to evaluate the skeletal status. Aim. We aimed to correlate the bone turnover markers and lumbar bone mineral density (BMD) with serotonin.
Measurement of plasma, serum, and platelet serotonin in individuals with high bone mass and mutations in LRP5.	It has recently been suggested that the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 5 (LRP5) regulates bone mass by suppressing secretion of serotonin from duodenal enterochromaffin cells. In mice with targeted expression of a high bone mass-causing (HBM-causing) LRP5 mutation and in humans with HBM LRP5 mutations, circulating serotonin levels have been reported to be lower than in controls whereas individuals with loss-of-function mutations in LRP5 have high blood serotonin. In contrast, others have reported that conditionally activating a knock-in allele of an HBM-causing LRP5 mutation in several tissues, or genetic deletion of LRP5 in mice has no effect on serum serotonin levels. To further explore the possible association between HBM-causing LRP5 mutations and circulating serotonin, levels of the hormone were measured in the platelet poor plasma (PPP), serum, and platelet pellet (PP) of 16 affected individuals from 2 kindreds with HBM-causing LRP5 mutations (G171V and N198S) and 16 age-matched controls. When analyzed by HPLC, there were no differences in levels of serotonin in PPP and PP between affected individuals and age-matched controls. Similarly, when analyzed by ELISA, there were no differences in PPP or PP between these two groups. By ELISA, serum levels of serotonin were higher in the affected individuals when compared to age-matched controls. A subgroup analysis of only the G171V subjects (n=14) demonstrated that there were no differences in PPP and PP serotonin between affected individuals and controls when analyzed by HPLC. PP serotonin was lower in the affected individuals when measured by ELISA but serum serotonin levels were not different. We conclude that there is no change in PPP serotonin in individuals with HBM-causing mutations in LRP5.
First evidence of increased plasma serotonin levels in Tako-Tsubo cardiomyopathy.	There is no data about the serotonergic activity during the acute phase of Tako-Tsubo Cardiomyopathy (TTC). The objective of our study was to investigate evidence of serotonin release from patients with TTC in comparison with patients with ST elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) and healthy control subjects (HCS).
Development of a prediabetic state under chronic alcohol intoxication]	We investigated the changes in key parameters of carbohydrate and lipid metabolism, which correspond to the clinical picture that accompanies the development of prediabetic condition on the background of chronic alcohol intoxication. From the analysis of glycemic curves obtained during the insulin-glucose test, a speed of glucose uptake by peripheral tissues increased at the 1st day (1.5 fold) and the third day (1.3 fold) of administration of alcohol solution. At the later periods, at 7 and 11 days of ethanol administration, a decreased rate of glucose uptake in animals with chronic alcohol intoxication was detected. We also detected an increased content of serotonin in the blood serum and a decreased (1.2 fold) serotonin content in rat brain during the whole period of development of chronic alcohol intoxication.
Failure of glucose and branched-chain amino acids to normalize brain glucose use in portacaval shunted rats.	Several abnormalities in brain and plasma amino acid concentrations caused by portacaval shunting in rats return toward normal after 4 days of intravenous infusion with either glucose or glucose with branched-chain amino acids. To assess the effect of such treatment on brain energy metabolism, regional brain glucose use was measured using [14C]glucose and autoradiography, 5 weeks after portacaval shunting. In one experiment intravenous glucose or glucose with branched-chain amino acids was given for 4 days. In a separate experiment the treatment was given orally for 2 weeks, and in addition to glucose use, brain monoamines and amino acids were measured. No other food was provided; the rats had free access to water. Normally fed shunted rats and sham-operated rats served as controls. Both types of oral treatment lowered the high concentrations of tyrosine, phenylalanine, and glutamine in plasma and brain. Glucose without amino acids normalized brain tryptophan. Levels of brain norepinephrine, 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin), and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid were significantly raised after shunting. Treatment had no effect on norepinephrine but the glucose diet brought the indoles into the normal range. In contrast, neither intravenous nor oral treatment affected brain glucose use, which remained depressed by 25-30% in all brain areas examined.
Venous plasma serotonin is not a proper biomarker for pulmonary arterial hypertension.	Serotonin (5-HT) most likely plays an important role in the pathogenesis of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). We aimed to test if venous plasma 5-HT is a potential biomarker of PAH. We also measured venous blood -thromboglobulin (-TG) in all participants to ensure that any increase in serotonin levels measured is due to platelet release.
Enteric and serological distribution of serotonin and its precursor tryptophan in perinatal low and normal weight piglets.	Perinatal mortality is high among small-for-gestational age (SGA) piglets and continues to be an economic burden and threat to animal welfare. As the physiological role of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) in perinatal development and gastrointestinal function in the pig remains unknown, the aim of this study was to assess the enteric distribution of 5-HT cells and to determine 5-HT together with its precursor tryptophan in the serum of perinatal normal and SGA piglets. For this purpose, proximal and distal parts of the small intestine (SI) were processed for immunohistochemical analysis to assess the presence of 5-HT endocrine cells. Serum 5-HT was measured with ELISA, whereas its precursor, that is, the free fraction of tryptophan (FFT) together with albumin-bound tryptophan and total tryptophan, were analysed with HPLC in postnatal piglets. In addition, the morphological growth patterns of the different intestinal tissue layers of both normal and SGA piglets were stereologically analysed. The stereological volume density of 5-HT enteroendocrine cells showed a significant interaction effect between age and region. Indeed, the amount of 5-HT cells in both the proximal and distal part of the SI tended to decrease according to age, with the lowest values detected at day 3 postpartum. No differences could be observed related to BW. Interestingly, the serum concentration of 5-HT was higher in normal piglets compared with SGA piglets. Moreover, the ratio of FFT to total tryptophan was significantly affected by age and BW. Normal piglets had, on average, a lower FFT/total tryptophan ratio compared with SGA piglets. An approximate linear decrease was observed with increasing age. Finally, the immaturity of the intestinal system of the SGA piglets was not reflected in altered volume densities of the different intestinal layers. To conclude, although no BW effect could be detected in the distribution of enteric 5-HT cells, serum 5-HT and the ratio of FFT to total tryptophan ratio showed significant differences between normal piglets and their SGA littermates. 
Indole amine deficiency in blood and cerebrospinal fluid from patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection.	Twenty-four patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection were investigated for possible changes in certain indole amine constituents in blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Albumin in serum was determined and used as a rough nutritional marker. Six of the 24 patients had acquired immunodeficiency syndrome AIDS, four had other clinical symptoms of HIV infection, and 14 had no apparent symptoms. The HIV-seropositive patients had significantly decreased tryptophan values; their blood concentrations were 28% lower and their CSF concentrations 30% lower than corresponding values in 14 healthy controls. The blood concentrations of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) were 50% lower, and the platelet content of 5-HT was 36% lower in HIV-infected individuals than in the control group. The most pronounced changes were invariably seen in the six cases with AIDS and in patients with a low number of CD4+ cells. No significant difference between controls and HIV-seropositive patients was detected in the mean CSF concentrations of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), although these levels were markedly reduced in four of the HIV patients. Neither was any significant difference seen between patients and controls in the serum concentrations of albumin.
Serotonin metabolism in migraine.	To investigate systemic serotonin (5-HT) metabolism in migraine, we determined platelet and platelet-free plasma concentrations of 5-HT, its precursors tryptophan and 5-hydroxytryptophan, and its main metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), as well as the activities of the platelet enzymes monoamine oxidase and phenolsulfotransferase in classic and common migraineurs. Between attacks, migraineurs had lower plasma 5-HT and higher 5-HIAA levels than did healthy controls and patients with tension headache. During migraine attacks, plasma 5-HT levels were substantially higher than during attack-free periods, while 5-HIAA concentrations and platelet enzyme activities were lower. Platelet 5-HT was reduced only during common, but not classic, migraine attacks. We hypothesize that systemic 5-HT metabolism is enhanced in migraineurs during headache-free periods and transiently decreases during attacks, presumably due to a fall in enzymatic degradation. Furthermore, platelet behavior differs during migraine attacks with and without aura, and release of platelet 5-HT cannot (exclusively) be held accountable for the rise of plasma 5-HT during migraine attacks.
Comparative behavioural and biochemical effects of repeated intrathecal administration of thyrotrophin-releasing hormone (TRH) or two analogues of TRH in adult rats.	The effect of repeated intrathecal injection of thyrotrophin-releasing hormone (TRH) and two analogues of TRH, C-terminally modified RX 77638 and N-terminally modified CG 3509, were examined on behavioural (wet-dog shakes and forepaw licking) and biochemical markers for spinal motoneurones, bulbospinal raphe nerve terminals and the pituitary-thyroid axis in rats. Saline (10 microliters washed in with 15 microliters), TRH (20 micrograms), RX 77368 (2 micrograms) or CG 3509 (2 micrograms) were administered intrathecally (twice daily for 3 or 5 days), after which levels of plasma-free thyroxine and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) were measured and the dorsal and ventral portions of the thoracolumbar spinal cord, brainstem and hypothalamus were assayed for TRH- and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-like immunoreactivity, levels of indoleamines and the activity of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT). Behavioural tolerance developed rapidly with consecutive injections of RX 77368, such that wet-dog shakes were significantly reduced and forepaw-licking tended to be decreased by the third intrathecal injection. Five, but not 3, days of administration of RX 77368 selectively elevated levels of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid in the ventral spinal cord, where these substances are principally located in bulbospinal raphe nerve terminals. The time course of the change in indoleamines suggests that administration of TRH peptides elevated the synthesis, rather than the release, of 5-HT from these nerve terminals.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Pertussis toxin-sensitive GTP-binding proteins may regulate phospholipase A2 in response to thrombin in rabbit platelets.	Incubation of rabbit platelets with thrombin resulted in rapid accumulations of inositol trisphosphate (IP3) in [3H]inositol-labeled platelets, increases of [3H]arachidonic acid [( 3H]AA) release, and [3H]serotonin secretion from the platelets prelabeled with these labeled compounds. The experiments using phospholipase A2 or C inhibitor suggested that not only phospholipase C but also phospholipase A2 activity plays an important role in serotonin secretion. We then studied the regulatory mechanisms of phospholipase A2 activity. Guanosine 5'-(3-O-thio)triphosphate (GTP gamma S), guanyl-5'-(beta,gamma-iminio)triphosphate), or AlF4- caused a significant liberation of AA in digitonin-permeabilized platelets but not in intact platelets. Thrombin-stimulated AA release was not observed in permeabilized platelets, whereas thrombin acted synergistically with GTP or GTP analogs to stimulate AA release. GTP analog-stimulated AA release was inhibited by guanosine 5'-(2-O-thio)diphosphate) and was also inhibited by decreased Mg2+ concentrations. Thrombin-induced, GTP-dependent AA release, but not IP3 formation, was diminished by 100 ng/ml of pertussis toxin, associated with ADP-ribosylation of membrane 41-kDa protein(s). Thrombin-stimulated AA release from intact platelets and GTP gamma S-stimulated release from permeabilized platelets were both markedly dependent on Ca2+. However, Ca2+ addition could not enhance AA release without GTP gamma S even when Ca2+ was increased up to 10(-4) M in permeabilized platelets. The results show that thrombin-stimulated AA release from rabbit platelets is mainly mediated by phospholipase A2 activity, not by phospholipase C activity, and that Ca2+ is an important factor to the activation of phospholipase A2 but is not the sole factor to the regulation. GTP-binding protein(s) is involved in receptor-mediated activation of phospholipase A2.
Diminished serotonin uptake in platelets of transgenic mice with increased Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase activity.	Reduced levels of the neurotransmitter serotonin in blood platelets is a clinical symptom characteristic of individuals with Down's syndrome. To investigate the possible involvement of the Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase (CuZnSOD) gene, which resides at the Down locus on chromosome no. 21, in the etiology of that symptom, we examined blood platelets of transgenic mice harboring the human CuZnSOD gene. It was found that platelets of transgenic CuZnSOD animals, which overexpress the transgene, contain lower levels of serotonin than nontransgenic littermate mice, due to a reduced rate of uptake of the neurotransmitter by the dense granules of the platelets. We found that the pH gradient (delta pH) across the dense granule membrane, which is the main driving force for serotonin transport, was diminished in dense granules of transgenic-CuZnSOD. Furthermore, a significantly lower than normal serotonin accumulation rate was also detected in dense granules isolated from blood platelets of Down's syndrome individuals. These findings suggest that CuZnSOD gene dosage is affecting the dense granule transport system and is thereby involved in the depressed level of blood serotonin found in patients born with Down's syndrome.
The specificity of the reaction of collagen with platelets.	1. Human platelets will react with a number of different collagens from guinea-pig to ostrich. 2. Human skin collagen when treated with pepsin does not react with human platelets. 3. Calf platelets display a different pattern of reactivity than that of human platelets.
Physiological characteristics of platelet serotonin in rats.	Physiological characteristics of platelet serotonin (5-HT) levels in rats of Wistar origin were investigated by use of a recently developed method. By comparison of populations of male and female rats (N = 281) similar unimodal frequency distributions, with a tendency to higher values in females (1.61 vs. 1.70 micrograms 5HT/mg platelet protein; p less than 0.01), were found. For a group of 55 animals, monitored twice for this parameter within a week interval, a remarkable intraindividual constancy in time, the mean difference between two determinations being 5.5%, was shown. No age-dependence could be demonstrated for platelet serotonin concentrations in 5- to 30-week-old rats, nor were there significant circadian or seasonal oscillations.
Serotonin and human immunodeficiency viruses.	This preliminary study shows, for the first time to our knowledge, decreased whole blood serotonin levels in AIDS patients as compared to healthy controls and cancer patients. The lowest serotonin levels were found in AIDS patients with neuropsychiatric symptoms. Finally the present data suggest an inverse relationship between serotonin level and AIDS severity.
Pathogenetic mechanisms of atherogenesis in patients with rheumatoid arthritis]	Blood lipids, peroxidation of lipids, inflammation mediators were examined in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. It was found that corticosteroids cause changes in blood lipids of the atherogenic type that in association with increased levels of malonic dialdehyde, serotonin, histamine and reduced blood heparin level is the main pathogenetic mechanism of atherogenesis in rheumatoid arthritis.
The histamine-serotonin-monoamine oxidase system in patients with foot mycosis during treatment]	Examinations of 18 patients with mycoses of the foot complicated by allergic processes, have revealed elevated blood serum concentrations of histamine, serotonin, cathepsin D, and acid phosphatase, and a lowered activity of monoamine oxidase, as compared to 22 patients with mycoses not complicated with allergic manifestations. This fact reflects one of the aspects of a pathogenetic difference between these patients and necessitates combined therapy to correct the detected abnormalities.
Platelet serotonin in systemic sclerosis.	Platelet serotonin concentrations were measured in 43 patients with systemic sclerosis, in 11 patients with primary Raynaud's phenomenon, and in 38 normal controls. Patients with the CREST variant (calcinosis, Raynaud's phenomenon, oesophageal dysmotility, sclerodactyly, telangiectasia) had significantly lower platelet serotonin concentrations than normal controls. Patients with diffuse systemic sclerosis had normal platelet serotonin concentrations. In patients with CREST treatment with ketanserin, a specific serotonin antagonist, normalised platelet serotonin concentrations. These data provide further evidence suggesting that in systemic sclerosis, particularly the CREST variant, there is widespread platelet activation.
Effects of cadmium treatment in vitro on the uptake and release of [3H]serotonin by human blood platelets.	Effects of cadmium treatment on human platelets were studied with respect to uptake and release of 5-[3H]hydroxytryptamine (5-HT). The uptake of 5-[3H]HT in the presence of varying concentrations of CdCl2 (0.001-10 mM) was inhibited significantly with respect to control platelets and the inhibition was maximum at 1 mM CdCl2 concentration. From studies on the kinetics of 5-[3H]HT uptake a higher Km and significantly lower Vmax for CdCl2-treated platelets were observed. CdCl2 stimulated spontaneous release but inhibited thrombin-induced release of 5-[3H]HT. Spontaneous release of 5-[3H]HT induced by CdCl2 was not significantly altered in the presence of externally available CaCl2 (1 mM).
A diacylglycerol kinase inhibitor, R59022, potentiates secretion by and aggregation of thrombin-stimulated human platelets.	The diacylglycerol kinase inhibitor R59022 (10 microM) potentiates secretion and aggregation responses in human platelets challenged with sub-maximal concentrations of thrombin. Potentiation correlates closely with increased formation of diacylglycerol, increased phosphorylation of a 40 kDa protein, a known substrate for protein kinase C, and with decreased formation of phosphatidic acid, the product of diacylglycerol kinase. Phosphorylation of myosin light chains, formation of inositol phosphates and the mobilization of Ca2+ by thrombin are not affected by R59022 (10 microM). These data support a role for protein kinase C in platelet aggregation and secretion, and provide further evidence that endogenous diacylglycerols bring about the activation of this enzyme. These data also add further argument against a role for phosphatidic acid in platelet activation.
Calcium-dependent cysteine protease activity in the sera of patients with thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura.	Plasma and serum from patients with thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) can cause activation and aggregation of normal human platelets in vitro. It is possible that this platelet-activating factor contributes to the disease. In this report we describe studies designed to identify the platelet-activating factor in TTP. Platelet activation by sera from 15 patients with TTP was inhibited by leupeptin, iodoacetamide, and antipain but not by phenylmethylsulphonylfluoride, epsilon-aminocaproic acid, soybean trypsin inhibitor, aprotinin, and D-phenylanyl-1-prolyl-1-arginine chloromethyl ketone. These studies suggested that the platelet-activating factor in TTP serum was a cysteine protease. We confirmed that a calcium-dependent cysteine protease (CDP) was present in the sera of each of the 15 patients when we used an assay based on the ability of CDP to proteolyse platelet membrane glycoprotein 1b (GP1b) and hence to abolish the ability of CDP-treated normal platelets to agglutinate in the presence of ristocetin and von Willebrand factor. This proteolytic activity was inhibited by EDTA, leupeptin, antipain, iodoacetamide, and by N-ethyl-maleamide (NEM) but not by the serine protease inhibitors. Activity was detected in 15 of 15 patients with TTP tested before therapy was begun. In contrast, no activity was detected in the serum of any of five of the TTP patients tested in remission or in any of the sera from 36 patients with thrombocytopenia and 423 nonthrombocytopenic controls. To look for in vivo CDP activity in patients with TTP, we studied platelets from two patients with acute TTP (drawn into acid-citrate-dextrose, NEM, and leupeptin). These platelets showed a loss of GP1b from the platelet surface. Both patients were also studied in remission: GP1b on the platelet surface had returned to normal. These studies provide evidence that CDP is present in the sera of patients with TTP, that it is specific to this disease, and that is is active in vivo as well as in vitro. We postulate that a disorder of CDP homeostasis plays a major role in the pathophysiology of TTP.
Evidence for a role for Na+-H+ exchange in activation of human platelets by PAF.	We have found previously that inhibitors of Na+-H+ exchange block platelet arachidonic acid release and subsequent secondary aggregation and serotonin release in response to epinephrine, ADP, and thrombin (0.004 U/ml). The present study demonstrates that the addition of ethylisopropylamiloride, an inhibitor of Na+-H+ exchange, leads to an inhibition of platelet activating factor-induced serotonin release and thromboxane B2 production in human platelets in citrated plasma. In addition, platelet activating factor-induced platelet secretion is blocked by the cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin or the thromboxane antagonist SQ 29548, indicating that arachidonic acid mobilization and metabolism is required for platelet activating factor to elicit platelet activation. Our interpretation of the present findings is that platelet activating factor-induced secretion of dense granules from the human platelet requires the production of cyclooxygenase metabolites from arachidonic acid and that Na+-H+ exchange plays an important, albeit not exclusive, role in mobilization of arachidonic acid in response to platelet activating factor.
Impairment of phosphatidylinositol metabolism in a patient with a bleeding disorder associated with defects of initial platelet responses.	Phosphoinositide/polyphosphoinositide (PI/PPI) metabolism, measured by the increase of 3H-phosphatidic acid (PA) and the decrease of 3H-phosphatidylinositol (PI) in 3H-arachidonate-labeled platelet suspensions, was assessed in five patients whose platelet functional defects included impaired initial rates of ADP, epinephrine and U44069 aggregation in platelet-rich plasma (PRP). In one patient, 3H-PA formation induced by collagen and thrombin was reduced or absent on two of three occasions, and the decrease in 3H-PI was reduced on one of these two occasions in response to collagen and A23187, and on all 3 occasions in response to thrombin. The variations in the formation of 3H-PA in this patient on different occasions broadly paralleled the variations in the initial rates of ADP and U44069 aggregation and in epinephrine aggregation seen in PRP. No such abnormalities of PI metabolism were found in four other patients with similar, but not identical, functional defects. These results suggest an impairment affecting metabolism of PI/PPI via the PI/PPI cycle in this patient's platelets. The association of abnormalities of PI metabolism with defects of initial platelet responses provides further support for a physiological role of phosphoinositide metabolism in the early activation mechanism of platelets.
Platelet serotonin uptake in panic disorder.	Platelet serotonin uptake was measured in 45 patients (12 males, 33 females) with panic attacks and 21 controls (9 males, 12 females). Higher Vmax values were obtained in the patient group than in the controls (100.2 +/- 11.5 vs. 34.9 +/- 3.8 pmol/10(8) platelets/min; P less than 0.0005) while the affinity constant Km was not significantly different (2.28 +/- 0.3 vs. 1.71 +/- 0.18 microM). A value of Vmax in excess of 60 pmol/10(8) platelets/min was observed in 60% of patients and in only 5% of controls. The results point to a specific abnormality of platelet serotonin uptake in patients with panic attacks.
Effect of dihydroergosine (DHESN) on the serotoninergic system and behaviour: is DHESN a new antidepressive agent?	Acute (50.0 mg/kg) and repeated (0.1-10.0 mg/kg) administration of dihydroergosine (DHESN) to rats over 5 days lowered the concentration of 5-HIAA in the brain. DHESN given acutely increased the brain 5-HT in p-CPA-treated animals and diminished the probenecid-induced increase in brain 5-HIAA. In pargyline-treated rats DHESN enhanced the 5-HT/5-HIAA ratio. DHESN administered to rats repeatedly over 5 days decreased the level of 5-HT in blood platelets, and in vitro at concentrations of 10(-4) M and 10(-3) M inhibited the uptake of [14C]-5-HT in platelets. DHESN (10.0-100.0 mg/kg) potentiated the 5-HT syndrome produced in rats by pargyline and 5-HTP. This potentiation was blocked with cyproheptadine but not with haloperidol. DHESN (1.0 and 10.0 mg/kg) lowered the locomotor activity of rats and 10.0 mg/kg DHESN also reduced the duration of immobility in rats forced to swim in a restricted space. The results indicate that DHESN, like antidepressants, decreases the turnover of serotonin in the brain and potentiates the 5-HT-mediated behaviour. This might suggest that the drug should be further investigated for its potential antidepressive properties.
V1a-vasopressin specific receptors on human platelets: potentiation by ADP and epinephrine and evidence for homologous down-regulation.	Using very specific vasopressin (VP) analogues, the human platelet VP receptor was characterized as a V1a rather than a V1b receptor, on the basis of the effect of the analogues on shape-change and aggregation. The platelet VP binding sites appeared to be subject to homologous down-regulation by plasma VP, in view of the inverse correlation found between the maximal capacity of binding of tritiated VP to platelets and the immunoreactive VP concentration in poor platelet plasma from the same individual. Aggregating effect of VP on human platelets was potentiated by both ADP and epinephrine. In addition, VP was able to release serotonin from human platelets, but only at high concentration.
Imipramine binding sites on platelets of patients with major depressive disorder.	3H-Imipramine binding to platelets of patients with primary, unipolar major depressive disorder was investigated and compared to that of a normal, healthy control population. No significant differences could be demonstrated between either the Kd or the Bmax values of the two groups. A negative correlation was observed between imipramine Bmax values and the Hamilton anxiety ratings of the depressed patients. Patients who displayed psychomotor retardation tended to have lower platelet imipramine Bmax values than patients with psychomotor agitation. It is suggested that platelet imipramine Bmax values may be a biological marker for subtypes of depression.
Sulphinpyrazone and the platelet serotoninergic mechanism in ischaemic heart disease.	A double blind study in 25 patients with ischaemic heart disease and 20 matched healthy controls examined the effect of sulphinpyrazone on the uptake of serotonin by platelets and the basal concentrations of serotonin in platelets. Uptake was measured using tritium labelled serotonin and basal concentrations estimated spectrophotofluorometrically. Serotonin uptake was significantly increased both in the patients with chronic stable angina of effort and in those with a history of myocardial infarction six months or more previously. Sulphinpyrazone reduced serotonin uptake from 94.25 (SE 8.65) to 57.86 (5.37) cpm/10(8) platelets after 24 weeks of treatment in the group with stable angina and from 137.45 (16.26) to 68.08 (8.38) cpm/10(8) platelets in the myocardial infarction group. Raised basal concentrations in the two groups were also reduced by sulphinpyrazone. Placebo had no effect on serotonin uptake or basal concentrations in either group of patients. The ability of sulphinpyrazone to inhibit uptake and reduce basal concentrations of serotonin in patients with ischaemic heart disease may be yet another mechanism through which this drug exerts its beneficial antiplatelet effect.
Serotonin reuptake inhibition vs. norepinephrine reuptake inhibition: a double-blind differential-therapeutic study with fluvoxamine and oxaprotiline in endogenous and neurotic depressives.	The antidepressive properties of the specific serotonin reuptake inhibitor fluvoxamine and the specific norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor oxaprotiline were investigated in a sequential design with the aim of evaluating the hypothesis that two distinct biochemical subtypes of depression exist. Responders were treated for 7 weeks with the compound to which they had responded. After 1 placebo week, the nonresponders were switched to the alternative compound. An evaluation of the data obtained during the 3-week treatment periods from 24 patients (37 trials) with major depression revealed a highly significant reduction of Hamilton Scores with both compounds, oxaprotiline and fluvoxamine. If the patients with major depression are subdivided into two groups, endogenous depressives and neurotic depressives, there is no significant difference between the therapeutic improvements (both compounds) achieved in the two groups. The data shows that only about 20% of the nonresponders on one compound responded to the alternative drug, whereas 90% of responders (within 3 weeks) were still responders after 7 weeks. The data are at variance with the concept of two distinct biochemical subtypes of depression (serotonergic vs. norepinephrinergic). Dexamethasone suppression tests, performed in 23 patients, gave no prognostic hint as to whether the patients reacted well to drug therapy or not.
Direct platelet-fibrin interaction that does not require platelet activation.	Interactions between platelets and fibrin are important in hemostasis but often confused with platelet-fibrinogen interactions. Fibrin solubilized in NaBr-acetic acid formed polymers in neutral pH buffers. A stirred mixture of solubilized fibrin and washed human platelets at neutral pH range showed drastic reduction in turbidity and concomitant platelet adhesion onto newly formed fibrin strands. Optimally, more than 99% of platelets could be associated with fibrin, whereas only 3% of erythrocytes were trapped in the fibrin network under similar conditions. This platelet-fibrin interaction was fibrin concentration dependent and polymerization stage dependent. It preceded any detectable platelet release of serotonin. Gly-Pro-Arg-Pro (250 times in excess) retarded the kinetics of fibrin polymerization as well as that of platelet-fibrin interaction. However, factors affecting platelet activation showed little effect on platelet-fibrin interaction. Our results support the existence of a platelet-fibrin interaction that does not require platelet activation.
Synthetic aci-reductones: 3,4-dihydroxy-2H-1-benzopyran-2-ones and their cis- and trans-4a,5,6,7,8,8a-hexahydro diastereomers. Antiaggregatory, antilipidemic, and redox properties compared to those of the 4-substituted 2-hydroxytetronic acids.	Synthetic procedures for the elaboration of aci-reductones belonging to the 6- or 7-mono- or bis-substituted-3,4-dihydroxy-2H-1-benzopyran-2-ones (6-10) and their cis- and trans-4a,5,6,7,8,8a-hexahydro diastereomers (11, 12) are described. hexahydrobenzopyranone aci-reductones were conveniently prepared by using Meldrum's synthon (2,2-dimethyl-1,3-dioxane-4,6-dione, 49). Certain of these substances were evaluated for antilipidemic activity in the cholesterol-fed rat model, and all analogues were studied for their ability to inhibit aggregation of human platelets. Results are compared to aci-reductones belonging to the 4-aryl- and 4-spiroalkyl-2-hydroxytetronic acid systems (4,5a,b). Redox potentials for all aci-reductones were determined with cyclic voltammetry. It would appear that the 4-aryl-2-hydroxytetronic acids represent leads for further study as antiatherosclerotic drugs owing to their favorable antilipidemic and antiaggregatory properties whereas the benzopyranones are of most interest as probes for platelet antiaggregatory mechanism studies.
ADP plays a key role in thrombogenesis in rats.	The relative importance of ADP, arachidonic acid metabolites and serotonin as thrombogenic factors was evaluated in rats by comparing, after oral administration, the effects of two inhibitors of ADP-induced platelet aggregation (ticlopidine and PCR 4099), three cyclo-oxygenase inhibitors (aspirin, triflusal and indobufen) and a selective serotonin 5HT2 receptor antagonist (ketanserin) on platelet aggregation, in four platelet-dependent thrombosis models and on bleeding time. Platelet aggregation induced by ADP and collagen was completely inhibited by ticlopidine and PCR 4099 whereas only the collagen aggregation was reduced by the cyclo-oxygenase inhibitors. Ketanserin or a depletion of platelet serotonin by reserpine did not affect platelet aggregation. Ticlopidine and PCR 4099 greatly prolonged rat tail transection bleeding time. This is probably related to their known ability to inhibit ADP-mediated platelet aggregation. In contrast, the cyclooxygenase inhibitors did not affect bleeding time at all. Reserpine and ketanserin prolonged bleeding time by interfering with the action of serotonin on the vascular wall. Ticlopidine and PCR 4099 were very potent antithrombotics in all the models. Aspirin, only at a high dose, inhibited poorly thrombus formation on a silk thread in an arterio-venous shunt, suggesting that the inhibition of cyclo-oxygenase was not responsible. Triflusal was inactive in all models while indobufen slightly reduced thrombus formation in the silk thread and metallic coil models. Ketanserin and reserpine reduced thrombus only in the metallic coil model. Thrombus formation was greatly reduced in fawn-hooded rats, which lack ADP in their platelet dense granules because of a genetic storage pool deficiency.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Paradoxical effects of amiloride analogs on protein phosphorylation and serotonin release induced by agonists in human platelets.	We examined the effects of newly exploited amiloride analogs on protein phosphorylation and serotonin secretion induced by various agonists in human platelets. 3', 4'-dichlorobenzamil (DCB) and to a lesser extent, 2', 4'-dimethylbenzamil (DMB), which in many cells highly specific inhibitors of Na+/Ca2+-pump, inhibited the phosphorylation of 47K- and 20K-dalton proteins and serotonin secretion in human platelets independently of the action on the pump. DCB also induced dephosphorylation of 47K and 20K after the phosphorylation of these proteins by thrombin and released serotonin by itself.
Circulating monoamine oxidase B and phenolsulfotransferase activities in essential hypertensive patients.	Circulating monoamine oxidase (MAO) and phenolsulfotransferase M and P (PST M, PST P) activities were determined in 24 untreated essential hypertensive patients and in 35 age-matched normotensive healthy controls. These enzymes are involved in the inactivation of monoamines and their metabolites. After lysis of blood, enzymatic activities were determined by radioenzymatic techniques using as substrates [14C]-beta-phenylethylamine for MAO, 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol for PST M and phenol for PST P. MAO activity measured by this method is fully accounted for by platelet MAO B activity. Women presented higher MAO activity than men. Significantly lower MAO-B activities were observed in hypertensive patients, both in men and in women, when compared to normotensive controls. Circulating PST activities, of which more than 80% is platelet-derived, were similar in hypertensive and normotensive subjects. These data suggest that the intracellular serotonin inactivation processes, through MAO and PST, cannot account for the reduction of platelet 5-HT content observed in essential hypertension.
The mobilization of arachidonic acid in platelets exposed to thrombin or ionophore A23187. Effects of adenosine triphosphate deprivation.	In studies conducted with human gel-filtered platelets, we have found: (a) that the release of serotonin and transfer of [3H]arachidonic acid from phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylinositol to plasmalogen phosphatidylethanolamine which are associated with  the activation of platelets by thrombin are both strongly dependent upon the presence of metabolic ATP; (b) that serotonin release and arachidonic acid mobilization in labeled phosphatides are promoted by the calcium ionophore A-23187 in media free of calcium ions; (c) that inhibitors of ATP synthesis, while leading to impairment of the release reaction induced by ionophore, do not inhibit ionophore-stimulated mobilization of arachidonic acid. We conclude that the activation of phospholipase A2 responsible for freeing arachidonic acid from platelet phosphatides is solely dependent upon the increased cytoplasmic levels of calcium ions promoted by either ionophore or, in an energy-dependent fashion by thrombin. Phospholipase activation is not a function of latent hydrolytic activity made available by the release reaction.
The detection of platelet isoantibodies by membrane immunofluorescence.	A membrane ummunofluorescence test for the detection of platelet isoantibodies is described. Gel filtration of the incubation mixture was incorporated in the procedure and proved effective for the removal of serum proteins from the platelet suspension. With this technique isoantibodies were found in the serum of 13 out of a group of 16 patients who had received multiple transfusions. The results were checked by measuring the uptake of 125I-labeled anti-IgG fraction by gel-filtered platelets. Subsequently the membrane immunofluorescence method was also compared with established techniques described for the detection of isoantibodies such as the microtest for lymphocytotoxicity and a complement-fixation method and the procedures based on the release of labeled serotonin, the phagocytosis of chromium-tagged platelets, the increase of platelet factor 3 activity, and on platelet aggregation. We had the opportunity to investigate the serum of one patient for the presence of isoantibodies against platelets from HLA identical siblings both before and after the administration of their platelets. On the basis of this experience it is concluded that the membrane immunofluorescence test for platelet isoantibodies is a relatively simple method with a high degree of specificity and adequate sensitivity.
Effect of long-term ketanserin treatment on 5-HT levels, platelet aggregation and peripheral circulation in patients with Raynaud's phenomenon. A double-blind, placebo-controlled cross-over study.	The long-term effects of the serotonergic (5-hydroxy-tryptamine, 5-HT) receptor antagonist, ketanserin, on 5-HT levels in whole blood, platelet aggregation and peripheral circulation were investigated in a double-blind placebo-controlled cross-over study. In 13 patients with Raynaud's phenomenon, 5-HT and catecholamine levels in whole blood were determined and platelet aggregation assayed after addition of ADP, collagen and 5-HT. Peripheral circulation was evaluated with fingertip temperatures and finger plethysmography before and after local cooling, with measurements repeated after indirect sympathetic blockade by body warming and after alcohol. Patients' symptoms were continuously registered in an individual diary. All measurements were performed 8 to 12 hours after the last drug intake. Five of seven scleroderma patients reported beneficial effects of ketanserin treatment and all six patients with primary Raynaud's phenomenon reported less severe and shorter cold-induced attacks. 5-HT levels in whole blood were significantly reduced after 5 weeks of ketanserin treatment (p less than 0.001) with a tendency for persistence of this reduction after halting of the medication (a "carry-over" effect). Platelet aggregation velocity induced by ADP, collagen and 5-HT was unaffected after ketanserin treatment. The diastolic blood pressure in these patients was decreased from 77.5 mmHg to 71.0 mmHg (p less than 0.001) after ketanserin, but the finger systolic blood pressure (FSBP) was unchanged. After sympathetic blockade by body warming, patients with ketanserin treatment had a paradoxical reduction in both FSBP and finger-tip temperatures, which makes a supposed alpha-receptor-blocking effect of ketanserin less likely. The reduced 5-HT levels in whole blood may explain the subjective favourable effect on patients with Raynaud's phenomenon.
Effects of fenfluramine on the behavior of autistic individuals.	The present report, part of a national, multicenter study to investigate the effects of fenfluramine on autistic behavior, describes findings on four autistic children ranging in age from 7 to 20 years. Additional performance and parental observation measures apart from those of the multicenter study are included. Results of this study which indicated no significant side effects, a reduction in some deviant behaviors and an improvement in activity level/attention span, provide support for earlier reports. The possibility that fenfluramine's apparently positive effects might be to simply reduce inappropriate behaviors via lethargy was examined and not supported.
Fenfluramine treatment of autism: relationship of treatment response to blood levels of fenfluramine and norfenfluramine.	Nine children meeting DSM-III criteria for infantile autism were treated with fenfluramine hydrochloride or inactive placebo in a double-blind crossover trial that followed the protocol for the fenfluramine multicenter study. Parents of the two children who had had the highest fenfluramine blood levels wished to have their children continue on fenfluramine, although the improvement they saw could not be demonstrated on the various rating instruments employed. The results of the study, while providing minimal support in themselves for the effectiveness of fenfluramine, do raise the possibility that fenfluramine blood levels might be related to treatment response.
Human platelet serotonin content: methodological aspects and physiological variations.	Platelet serotonin (5-HT) content was determined from platelet rich plasma (PRP) of volunteers using high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) coupled with electrochemical detection following platelet lysis by perchloric acid. Several methodological and physiological aspects were studied. Blood collection with either EDTA or ACD-C anticoagulation gave identical results and blood storage at room temperature for at least two hours did not affect platelet 5-HT content, which allowed blood transfer to the laboratory. Deproteinized samples could be stored at either +4 degrees C for 48 hours or -80 degrees C for several weeks before HPLC determination. The partial degradation of 5-HT during storage was proportional to that of an internal standard at +4 degrees C or at -80 degrees C, but not at -20 degrees C. Comparison of platelet 5-HT content and serum 5-HT levels using the same HPLC method showed a good correlation although the absolute values differed. The mean platelet 5-HT content in healthy subjects aged 20-60 years was 0.364 + 0.093 nmol/10(+8) platelets (x + SD, n = 88). Men had slightly less platelet 5-HT than women and platelet 5-HT content was found to be lower in women over 60 years of age. This may come partly from hormonal suppression since platelet 5-HT contents were found to be positively correlated to plasma estrogen concentrations in a group of peri- and postmenopausal women.
Alteration of platelet serotonergic mechanisms and monoamine oxidase activity in premenstrual syndrome.	Platelet uptake and content of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), platelet monoamine oxidase (MAO) activity, and plasma free and total tryptophan levels were determined in patients diagnosed with premenstrual syndrome (PMS) and in control subjects. The Vmax of 5-HT uptake and 5-HT content in platelets of PMS patients were significantly decreased during the premenstrual phase (cycle days -9 to -1) compared to control subjects. Platelet MAO activity was significantly lower postmenstrually (cycle days 5-9) in PMS patients compared to the premenstrual phase. There were no differences in plasma free and total tryptophan levels between PMS patients and control subjects during either interval. As platelets are believed to be a peripheral model for central serotonergic neurons, the results suggest that PMS symptomatology may be related to alterations in serotonergic neuronal mechanisms.
Effects of intravenous calcium on release of serotonin into jejunal lumen and portal circulation.	The effect of intravenous calcium bolus (180 mg in 10 ml normal saline over 25-30 sec) on the release of serotonin into the jejunal lumen and the portal and peripheral venous circulation was studied. Proximal jejunal 25-cm cannulated Thiry-Vella loops were perfused with a neutral physiological buffer in an isoperistaltic direction at 2 ml/min. One minute after the calcium bolus, serum calcium levels increased from 8.7 +/- 0.3 to 14.2 +/- 0.8 mg/dl. Jejunal luminal concentrations of 5HT increased from 135 +/- 21 to 208 +/- 44 ng/ml at the same time; luminal levels peaked at 236 +/- 27 ng/ml at 7 min and slowly returned to baseline. In contrast, portal and systemic venous concentrations did not change after intravenous calcium bolus. The data support the contention that there are independent mechanisms for the release of serotonin into the bowel lumen and the blood stream.
Adaptogenic role of serotonin in dogs coming out of an experimental neurosis]	In a study carried out on dogs by means of alimentary salivary conditioned reflexes, it was found out that serotonin injection into the anterior limbic cortex and the action of neurogenous stimuli lead neither to the development of experimental neurosis nor to the usual for the neurosis increase of blood serotonin level. At the treatment of experimental neurosis by small doses of 5-oxytryptophan, the therapeutic effect of this serotonin predecessor appeared only in the days of its injection. In the subsequent period, the neurotic changes in the higher nervous activity continued, and the blood serotonin level remained increased. These data as well as materials earlier obtained on the increase of the blood serotonin level at neurosis in dogs, give reason to consider the increase of activity of the serotoninergic system at neurosis as one of adaptogenous factors contributing to the coming out of neurosis.
Serotonin in the lung. Demonstration of a close correlation to blood platelet.	The dependency of a high level of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5HT) in the lung on blood 5HT was examined. The whole lung excised from NOD/Shi mice (male, 8-12 week old) immediately after being sacrificed by cervical dislocation contained 2.86 +/- 1.21 micrograms/g of 5HT per wet tissue. This amount was much higher than that explained by the included blood which was estimated by the hemoglobin concentration in the lung extract. In order to decrease 5HT level in the blood, platelet was depleted by an exposure to gamma-ray. On the 10th day after the irradiation the amount of 5HT in the lung and blood decreased to about 3.1% and 1.5% of the respective normal values. The progressive decrease in 5HT in the lung and blood of the irradiated mice was prevented by the transplantation of normal bone marrow cells (10(7) cells/mouse). 5HT in the intestine did not change significantly. The correlation between 5HT in the excised lung and the number of platelets in the blood was statistically significant (correlation coefficient r = 0.61). The irradiated, platelet-deficient mice were incapable of accumulating serotonin in the lung, while normal mice increased the lung serotonin more than 3-fold, when high doses of 5HT were administered. The results indicated that the high level of 5HT in the dissected lung was closely related to platelet in the blood. A question remained where the majority of the measured 5HT was located in the lung tissue.
Reduced serotonin content and uptake in platelets from patients with essential hypertension: is a ouabain-like factor involved?	Platelet serotonin (5-HT) content was investigated in 35 essential hypertensive patients and in 58 normotensive subjects. A significant decrease of platelet 5-HT content was observed in both hypertensive men and women in respect to normotensive controls. This decreased platelet 5-HT content appears to be linked to a reduced capacity of platelets to take up 5-HT. Maximal velocity of 5-HT uptake was shown to be reduced in platelets from hypertensive patients and significantly correlated to platelet 5-HT content. No concomitant change of uptake Michaelis constant (KM) was observed. The great sensitivity of human platelets to very low concentrations of ouabain was demonstrated when incubation times were prolonged. The decreased Vmax observed in platelets from hypertensive patients and reproduced by ouabain inhibition could conceivably be linked to the presence of a circulating ouabain-like factor in hypertension.
A follow-up study of platelet-rich plasma serotonin in clinical subtypes of cerebral infarction.	The serotonin concentration in the platelet-rich plasma of 32 patients with single and multiple stroke type cerebral infarction was investigated at various stages. Serotonin levels were decreased in the acute period. The incidence of serotonin abnormality was higher in multiple types than in the single type. Serotonin levels were significantly decreased in treated hypertensive patients compared with untreated patients. Serotonin levels, therefore, varied according to the type and stage of cerebral infarction.
Serotonin uptake in blood platelets of Duchenne muscular dystrophy patients.	Serotonin (5-HT) uptake was studied in the blood platelets of 10 patients with Duchenne-type muscular dystrophy (DMD) and 7 age-matched controls. Vmax (maximum number of uptake sites) of platelet 5-HT uptake in the DMD patients was significantly less than that of the normal controls. There was no difference in the affinity for 5-HT (Km) between the two groups. There was a significant negative correlation between serum creatine kinase activity and Km of 5-HT uptake in blood platelets of these patients. However, no correlation was found between Km or Vmax and ambulatory status of DMD.
Circulating 5-hydroxytryptamine concentrations in preterm newborns.	Alterations in circulating 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) concentrations play a role in the pathophysiology of respiratory failure in adults. We undertook a study to develop a micromethod and measure circulating free 5-HT concentrations in preterm newborns with and without respiratory distress. Forty-six samples of platelet-poor plasma were obtained from 29 preterm newborns with varying degrees of respiratory distress. Samples were taken on days 2-3 and 6-7 of life. For measuring 5-HT concentrations we used a precolumn sample enhancement technique followed by ion exchange HPLC with electrochemical detection. The assay allowed detection of extremely small (50 pg) amounts of 5-HT from small (0.2 ml) amounts of blood. The mean 5-HT concentration on days 2-3 was 1.77 +/-0.74 ng/ml (mean +/- 95% confidence limits) and on days 6-7 was 0.69 +/- 0.23 ng/ml. This represented a significant fall in 5-HT concentrations (P = 0.01). All of 16 paired serial samples fell with time (P = 0.006). We conclude that platelet-poor plasma 5-HT concentrations in premature newborns are low, that there is a significant decline in these values over the first week of life, and that, in contrast with adults, the presence of respiratory failure is not associated with increased free 5-HT concentrations. The low 5-HT concentrations seen in newborns may reflect the ability to increase pulmonary uptake.
Steady-state model for plasma free and platelet serotonin in man.	A steady-state physiological flow model has been developed for predicting plasma free serotonin (5-HT), and platelet 5-HT, concentrations in man. The basic assumptions of the model are that 5-HT is produced in the wall of the intestine, enters the portal circulation at a constant rate, and is cleared by the lung, liver, kidney, and capillary bed. When a priori best estimates of the 5-HT production rate and organ extraction efficiencies were substituted into formulae describing the model, a predicted value for plasma free 5-HT of 304 pg/ml was obtained, in good agreement with a previously observed mean (+/- SE) of 387 +/- 84 pg/ml. The effects of varying production rate and extraction efficiency parameters on predicted levels of plasma free 5-HT are examined. The practical implications of the model and its possible utility in elucidating the causes of altered plasma free or platelet 5-HT seen in certain conditions are discussed.
Platelet serotonin uptake: methods and strain differences.	The pharmacokinetic properties of platelets make these vascular elements a potential and convenient model for serotoninergic neurons. Because we encountered several difficulties in preliminary platelet serotonin (5HT) uptake assays, we explored the influence of several assay factors on the parameters obtained. We found that a citrate-dextrose anticoagulant stabilized platelet 5HT uptake even at room temperature. More rapid wash rates during the filtration following the assay incubation gave higher apparent uptake affinities. Platelets from an inbred strain of rats exhibited less variability in Vmax than cells from outbred strains studied. These findings, in conjunction with a human twin study also suggesting that variance in platelet 5HT uptake increases with genetic diversification, demonstrate some additional confounding factors in platelet 5HT uptake studies.
Acute appendicitis and plasma concentration of serotonin.	The concentration of serotonin in platelet-poor plasma was measured with a radioenzymatic method in 31 patients prior to operation for suspected acute appendicitis. The serotonin determinations were made without knowledge of the peroperative or histologic findings. Appendicitis was found in 20 patients, nine of whom had elevated plasma serotonin level, giving 45% sensitivity for the test. Of the 11 patients with normal appendix, only one had increased plasma serotonin, giving 91% specificity. The predictive value of normal serotonin level was 48% and that of elevated serotonin level was 90%. No correlation was found between duration of appendicitis symptoms and plasma serotonin concentration. Other diseases did not influence the serotonin level.
Decreased plasma serotonin in melancholic patients: a study with clomipramine.	Eighteen unmedicated patients suffering from major depressive disorder with melancholia (DSM-III) were examined for abnormalities in peripheral serotonin (5-HT) and related metabolites. Serotonin in platelet-free plasma and in platelets from melancholics was significantly reduced to 30% and 60% of their respective control values. Plasma 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid was also found to be reduced, but not significantly. Other plasma compounds related to 5-HT (indoleacetic acid, total tryptophan, and free tryptophan) were found to be unchanged in these patients. Of all variables, only platelet 5-HT was affected while patients were on clomipramine (CIM) treatment. After 2 weeks on CIM (100-150 mg/day, orally), platelet 5-HT was reduced to 8% of pretreatment values, but plasma 5-HT did not change and continued to be reduced upon clinical recovery. The existence of a distinct pool of plasma 5-HT that is clearly independent of the platelet pool is indicated by the differences observed in plasma and platelet 5-HT during CIM treatment, as well as by previous data from this laboratory. The very marked decrease in plasma 5-HT levels may be in accord with the central nervous system changes reported in depression and suggests the possibility of using plasma 5-HT as a peripheral indicator of abnormal serotonin function in melancholia.
Trigramin. A low molecular weight peptide inhibiting fibrinogen interaction with platelet receptors expressed on glycoprotein IIb-IIIa complex.	Trigramin, a highly specific inhibitor of fibrinogen binding to platelet receptors, was purified to homogeneity from Trimeresurus gramineus snake venom. Trigramin is a single chain (approximately 9 kDa) cysteine-rich peptide with the Glu-Ala-Gly-Glu-Asp-Cys-Asp-Cys-Gly-Ser-Pro-Ala NH2-terminal sequence. Chymotryptic fragmentation showed the Arg-Gly-Asp sequence in trigramin. Trigramin inhibited fibrinogen-induced aggregation of platelets stimulated by ADP (IC50 = 1.3 X 10(-7)M) and aggregation of chymotrypsin-treated platelets. It did not affect the platelet secretion. Trigramin was a competitive inhibitor of the 125I-fibrinogen binding to ADP-stimulated platelets (Ki = 2 X 10(-8) M). 125I-Trigramin bound to resting platelets (Kd = 1.7 X 10(-7) M; n = 16,500), to ADP-stimulated platelets (Kd = 2.1 X 10(-8) M; n = 17,600), and to chymotrypsin-treated platelets (Kd = 8.8 X 10(-8) M; n = 13,800) in a saturable manner. The number of 125I-trigramin binding sites on thrombasthenic platelets amounted to 2.7-5.4% of control values obtained for normal platelets and correlated with the reduced number of GPIIb-GPIIIa molecules on the platelet surface. EDTA, monoclonal antibodies directed against the GPIIb-GPIIIa complex, and synthetic peptides (Arg-Gly-Asp-Ser and Tyr-Gly-Gln-Gln-His-His-Leu-Gly-Gly-Ala-Lys-Gln-Ala-Gly-Asp-Val) blocked both 125I-fibrinogen binding and 125I-trigramin binding to platelets. Fibrinogen binding was more readily inhibited by these compounds than was trigramin binding. Monoclonal antibodies directed either against GPIIb or GPIIIa molecules did not block the interaction of either ligand with platelets. Reduced, S-pyridylethyl, trigramin did not inhibit platelet aggregation and fibrinogen binding to platelets and it did not bind to platelets, suggesting that the secondary structure of this molecule is critical for expression of its biological activity.
Serotonin 5-HT2 receptor binding on blood platelets--a peripheral marker for depression?	Several methods of platelet membrane preparation and binding conditions were screened in order to optimize the labeling of serotonergic 5-HT2 receptors on previously frozen human platelet membranes with tritiated ketanserin. Under optimal conditions, 5-HT2 receptors in normal subjects (5 males, 7 females, age range 21 to 71) have a Kd of 1.5 +/- 0.2 nM and a Bmax of 33.9 +/- 5.3 fmole/mg protein. In a group of patients with major depressive disorder exactly matched for age and sex with the normal control group, we find a significant increase in receptor density, to 66.8 +/- 11.4 fmole/mg, with no significant change in the affinity (2.3 +/- 0.5 nM). Four weeks of treatment with antidepressant drugs result in a significant decrease of Bmax, down to control levels (29.4 +/- 3.9). Thus, ketanserin can be used to monitor changes in platelet serotonin 5-HT2 receptors which may be a relevant marker for the state of depression.
Uptake of serotonin into rat platelets and synaptosomes: comparative structure-activity relationships, energetics and evaluation of the effects of acute and chronic nortriptyline administration.	In order to establish whether the uptake systems in platelets and synaptosomes are equivalent, the structure-activity relationships for drug-induced inhibition of serotonin uptake were examined in vitro. The rank order for potency of inhibitors was the same in platelets as in synaptosomes, namely imipramine greater than nortriptyline greater than desmethylimipramine much much greater than norepinephrine greater than histamine; in addition, serotonin uptake was clearly distinguishable from the norepinephrine synaptic uptake mechanism, which displayed a different rank order. The synaptosomal uptake of serotonin was, however, much more dependent upon maintenance of Na+-K+-ATPase activity for its energy source than was the platelet uptake mechanism. Acute administration of nortriptyline produced substantial inhibition of platelet serotonin uptake and a smaller degree of inhibition of synaptosomal uptake; inhibition was detectable even after extensive washing of the platelet and synaptosome preparations, and was associated with persistent binding of the drug to the organelles. Chronic infusion of nortriptyline (20 mg/kg for 21 days, followed by a 24 hr washout period to dissipate persistent binding) did not alter the uptake capacity of synaptosomal or platelet preparations, but did cause a shift in the drug specificity of inhibitors. The latter effect was in opposite directions in platelets vs. synaptosomes. These data indicate that the platelet uptake mechanism does bear some resemblance to that seen in serotonergic neurons, but that the energy source for transport differs and the two mechanisms respond differently to prolonged drug administration in vivo. The use of uptake as a marker during the course of antidepressant administration is likely to be confounded by persistent direct drug effects on these organelles.
Serotonin, histamine and catecholamine levels in patients with the hyperprolactinemia syndrome]	A total of 76 patients aged 18-39 with hyperprolactinemia were studied for the blood levels of serotonin and histamine and for the urinary ones of epinephrine, norepinephrine, dopa and dopamine. Blood levels of serotonin and histamine were recorded increased whereas the urinary levels of catecholamines were decreased. No correlation was shown between the intensity in the production of lactogenic hormone and those abnormalities found in the levels of the above mentioned amino groups. The shifts observed were supposed to reflect those general tendencies which took place in the central regulatory mechanisms of the gonadal system in patients with excessive production of lactogenic hormone.
Effect of C3 depletion on the genesis of thrombocytopenia induced in rats by Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae.	The role of complement in the pathogenesis of marked thrombocytopenia induced in rats by Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae (E. rhusiopathiae) was examined. In cobra venom factor (CoF)-treated rats thrombocytopenia was not induced by the bacterium. The content of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) in platelets was decreased significantly after inoculation only in untreated rats. E. rhusiopathiae could bind C3 and generate platelet-bacteria aggregation when incubated in the plasma diluted with veronal-buffered saline containing calcium and magnesium (VBS++) or gelatin-VBS containing magnesium and ethyleneglycol tetra-acetic acid (GVB-Mg-EGTA), but not when incubated in GVB-ethylenediamine tetra-acetic acid (GVB-EDTA) diluted plasma or in CoF-treated or anti rat C3-treated plasma. When platelets were preincubated with activated zymosan, no bacteria could bind to platelets. From the results, we speculate that the alternative complement pathway, activated by E. rhusiopathiae, appears to mediate the formation of platelet-bacterial aggregations that may accelerate the removal of platelets from circulating blood.
The influence of reserpine and ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) on serotonin storage organelles of blood platelets.	The present investigation has evaluated the influence of reserpine on the serotonin-rich organelles bodies) in platelets from dogs, rabbits, and humans. Reserpine markedly depresses the levels of stored serotonin in human and animal platelets, accompanied by a small decrease in platelet ATP but no change in platelet ADP content. Thin sections of human platelets showed no change in the number or morphology of serotonin storage organelles during reserpine therapy, whereas a profound decrease in the size and number of dense bodies occurred in platelets from rabbits treated with reserpine. Dog platelets also showed a decrease in the number and density of serotonin storage organelles after reserpine therapy. The basis for the difference between rabbit and human platelets was explored by fixing platelets in glutaraldehyde and osmium in the presence or absence of the chelating agent ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA). Most of the dense bodies in fixed human platelets were removed by EDTA while rabbit platelet dense bodies remained essentially intact. The results suggested that the opacity of rabbit platelet dense bodies following fixation with glutaraldehyde and osmium relate primarily to their serotonin content, while the electron density of human serotonin storage organelles in fixed cells is due primarily to their calcium content. Further confirmation of this concept came from studies of platelets using the whole mount technique. Rabbit platelet serotonin storage organelles were found to lack the inherent opacity of the human dense bodies, a finding consistent with the lower concentration of calcium in the rabbit organelles.
Alterations of cerebrospinal fluid 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, and total blood serotonin content during clozapine treatment.	Cerebrospinal fluid 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid level, and total blood serotonin content was measured in groups of manic and schizophrenic patients before and after 2, 4, 6, 10, 20, and 30 days of clozapine treatment. CSF 5-HIAA values were elevated after 2 and 4 days and returned to baseline levels after 6 days or more. Blood serotonin content, in contrast, increased gradually and remained high even after 30 days. Neither CSF 5-HIAA nor blood 5-HT correlated with age, drug dose, or clinical effectiveness, but some relationship between these and the sedative component of the clozapine action was observed.
Endotoxin-challenged monkeys and rats.	Studies in our laboratory with both the monkey and the rat showed that, after three hours of endotoxemia, there was a significant decrease in the number of circulating platelets, total hemolytic complement (CH 50 units), and blood serotonin (5-HT) levels. Administration of dexamethasone sodium phosphate in the clinical dose range at the time of endotoxin challenge significantly attenuated the decrease in blood 5-HT levels when compared to the untreated groups in both the monkey and the rat experiments. In the monkey, CH 50 units remained at a higher level when dexamethasone was administered; however, the difference between the treated and untreated groups was not statistically significant. The number of circulating white blood cells and platelets did not appear to be significantly altered by corticosteroid treatment. It is suggested that glucocorticoids may interfere with lipopolysaccharide-induced alterations in complement components or factors regulating hemostasis that influence platelet 5-HT release.
Seasonal incidence of an altered diurnal rhythm of platelet serotonin in unipolar depression.	The diurnal rhythm but not absolute values of platelet serotonin (5-HT) was modified in untreated unipolar depressives. When allowance was made for the pronounced seasonal fluctuations in platelet 5-HT the difference was even more significant: in the first half of the year 5-HT was higher at 8 a.m. than at 4 p.m. in controls but the reverse was found in unipolar depressives. Parallel measurements of platelet 5-HT uptake and monoamineoxidase activity in the same patients showed no differences from controls, indicating that these regulatory factors did not determine the altered rhythmicity of platelet 5-HT. However plasma free tryptophan rhythmicity was also altered. These observations of altered rhythms but not concentrations of two peripheral serotoninergic parameters are of interest in the light of the concept of a desynchronization phenomenon underlying depressive states.
Increased platelet serotonin in bipolar depression and hypomania.	Platelet serotonin (5-HT) was higher at 8 a.m. in untreated bipolar depressives than in controls. This high 5-HT was different from unipolar depressives where 5-HT levels were similar to controls but showed altered diurnal rhythmicity. Further differences between unipolar and bipolar patients were found. 5-HT levels and 5-HT uptake into platelets were not correlated in bipolar depressives as found in both unipolar depressives and controls; and 5-HT levels and platelet monoamineoxidase activity tended to be negatively correlated in bipolar but not in unipolar depressives and controls. A longitudinal study of a bipolar II patient throughout three hospitalizations for depression followed by the switch into hypomania, indicated that 5-HT was state independent, remaining constantly high in all clinical conditions and upon remission, reduced only during and after treatment with clomipramine, a 5-HT uptakt dysfunction of indoleamines underlying bipolar illness.
Evaluation of platelet tests for measurement of cell integrity.	Various tests were evaluated for their capacity to differentiate between platelet suspensions with different degrees of cell damage. Those suspensions were prepared by simultaneous isolation of platelets from the same platelet-rich plasma (PRP) using the following procedures: 1. centrifugation at 4 degrees C with EDTA 2. gel filtration in Tangen's buffer 3. gel filtration in Ca2+-free Tyrode's soltuion 4. gel filtration in Ca2+-free Tyrode followed by dehydration against polyethylene glycol 20,000 and 5. albumin density gradient centrifugation. In these suspensions and in the original PRP the following parameters were studied: 1. morphology; 2. aggregability upon ADP addition; 3. platelet factor 3 availability; 4. uptake of 14C-serotonin and 3H-adenine; 5. metabolism of 3H-adenine and adenylate energy charge; 6. endogenous total ATP, ADP and serotonin and 7. lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity. Quantitation of pseudopod formation in the light or electron microscope and log dose response studies for ADP-induced aggregation proved to be the most sensitive and reproducible of the tests studied. Additional information could be obtained from measurement of the 3H-label in the ATP and hypoxanthine-inosine fractions and calculation of the adenylate energy charge. Determination of platelet factor 3 availability or uptake studies of 14C-serotonin and 3H-adenine were less suitable for discriminating between cell suspensions. Data for total ATP and serotonin concentrations and LDH activity differed between the cell suspensions but instead of detecting various degrees of cell damage they reflected alterations in platelet population caused by the isolation procedures.
Blood monoamine metabolism in Huntington's disease.	In 25 patients with Huntington's disease (HD), the mean blood concentration of serotonin (5-HT) and percentage of plasma free tryptophan were significantly increased while plasma concentrations of total and protein-bound tryptophan were significantly decreased. The pattern of changes in tryptophan concentrations was related to clinical severity but not to 5-HT levels. Platelet monoamine oxidase (MAO) activity was significantly increased in patients with HD; kinetic and marker enzyme studies suggested an increased enzyme concentration. Offspring at risk for HD also had elevated platelet MAO activity but normal concentrations of blood 5-HT and plasma tryptophan. In ten patients, plasma epinephrine concentrations were significantly increased; plasma dopamine and norepinephrine concentrations were positively related to MAO activity. The finding of peripheral neurotransmitter abnormalities in HD raises the question of an interaction between CNS and peripheral processes or a systemic disorder of neurotransmitter metabolism.
Serotonin uptake and efflux in blood platelets from untreated and neuroleptic-treated schizophrenics.	Earlier studies on platelet serotonin uptake in schizophrenia have given equivocal results. In this study, platelet serotonin uptake in diluted plasma was assessed in 23 drug-free and 19 neuroleptic-treated schizophrenics, compared to 70 controls. The maximal uptake rate, Vmax, was slightly but significantly lower in drug-free schizophrenics than in the controls. In neuroleptic-treated patients there was a nonsignificant trend in the same direction. The "affinity constant" Km was significantly elevated in neuroleptic-treated schizophrenics compared to both controls and drug-free patients. Assessment of serotonin uptake in platelets resuspended in an artificial medium gave no definite answer whether reduced Vmax in plasma is due to a plasmatic or a platelet abnormality. Spontaneous efflux of serotonin from preloaded platelets did not differ significantly between patients and controls.
Effects of the administration of somatostatin 14 in the carcinoid syndrome. Clinical and biological study of 2 cases]	The effects of synthetic cyclic somatostatin 14 were studied in two patients with the carcinoid syndrome. The 3-hour intravenous administration of somatostatin (250 micrograms X h-1), a) resulted in the disappearance of flushing in the first patient but was without any clinical effect in the second subject who remained chronically colored; b) lowered plasma levels of motilin, prostaglandins (E1, E2 and F2 alpha) and to a lesser extent of catecholamines in both patients whereas the serotonin level was not altered; c) was followed by a rebound effect with recurrence of severe flushing in the first patient and was associated with a dramatic increase of prostaglandin, substance P and catecholamine levels in both patients. The inhibitory effect of somatostatin and the occurrence of a rebound effect at the end of infusion were confirmed by infusing somatostatin (6 mg per day) during 48 h in the first patients. These results: a) show that somatostatin is an effective drug in carcinoid syndrome with severe flushing; b) confirm that several mediators are affected in carcinoid syndrome. However it could not be excluded that increased circulating levels of prostaglandins, substance P and catecholamines may represent unrelated secondary events; c) suggest that somatostatin primarily inhibits the release rather than the synthesis of tumor products. Owing to the severity of the rebound effect, treatment of the carcinoid syndrome with somatostatin must be undertaken with precaution until specific long-acting analogs are available.
Serotonin and dumping syndrome (author's transl)]	5-hydroxyindole acetic acid, xanthurenic acid and kynurenin, --that is to say the major metabolites of serotonin, were measured in the urines of 31 patients with dumping syndrome. Serotonin concentrations were measured as well in peripheral venous blood before and after a glucose load in 47 patient with dumping syndrome. All values measured were in the normal range. Comparison of serotonin levels in peripheral and portal venous blood yielded normal results as well. It is therefore concluded, that serotonin does not play an essential role in the etiology of the dumping syndrome.
Platelet changes after placement of aortic prostheses in dogs. I. Biochemical and functional alterations.	Changes in circulating platelets were observed after placement of woven Dacron aortic prostheses in dogs. Platelets had increased sensitivity to aggregating agents for up to 6 months postoperatively, during which period platelet survival was maximally shortened. Platelet survival gradually lengthened but remained less than preoperative values, even at 18 months. Platelet 5HT, consistently reduced after placement of aortic prostheses, closely paralleled changes in platelet survival. Studies with platelets labeled simultaneously with 14C-5HT and 51Cr suggested in vivo platelet release and reutilization of 5HT. In vitro platelet uptake of 14C-5HT, however, was depressed. Urinary excretion of 5HIAA increased slightly, but not significantly, after placement of aortic prostheses. These findings suggested that platelet interaction with the prosthetic surface led to partial release of platelet storage granule contents. Reutilization of released 5HT occurred but was limited because of impaired platelet uptake or storage of 5HT. Platelet damage was suggested by 51Cr-platelet cross-transfusion experiments. Platelets from normal dogs had normal recovery and reduced survival when cross-transfused into animals with aortic prostheses. When platelets from dogs with aortic prostheses were cross-transfused into normal animals, recovery was strikingly reduced and survival very short. Taken together, these studies suggest that, in dogs, platelet interaction in thrombosis on prosthetic surfaces is, in part, a reversible process, with platelets re-entering the circulation in an altered state.
Aprotinin-ACD-blood. II. The effect of aprotinin on the release of cellular mediators and enzymes in banked blood (author's transl)]	The concentration of the toxic mediators histamine and serotonin as well as the activity of lactate-dehydrogenase and alkaline phosphatase in banked blood increase significantly during storage. After initial addition of Aprotinin to ACD-Blood the level of these substances remained almost in normal range. The influence of these toxic mediators on the development of shock lung is discussed.
Effect of diabetes on metabolism of 5-hydroxytryptamine by rat lungs perfused in situ.	The effect of diabetes induced by treatment of rats with streptozotocin on metabolism of circulating 5-hydroxytryptamine (5HT) was investigated using an in situ lung perfusion preparation. Tissue uptake of 5HT and production of its metabolite, 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid, were unaffected in lungs of diabetic animals provided 2 or 20 microM exogenous 5HT. At constant perfusion pressure, pulmonary flow was not altered by substrate concentration or by streptozotocin treatment. Thus, in the experimental models of diabetes used, metabolism of circulating 5HT by the pulmonary endothelium remained unaffected.
Clinical, biochemical and psychopharmacologic correlates in patients with depressive symptomatology]	A population of 41 clinic outpatients suffering depressive symptomatology was studied. According to the presence or absense of sixteen specific symptoms it was possible to distribute these patients in three different groups. Simultaneously urinary determinations of phenethylamine (PEA), 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylethylglicol (MHPG), phenylacetic acid, 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid and serum 5-hydroxytriptamine were performed. A clossed clinical-biochemical correlation was noted in each group in relation to PEA and MHPG daily output. The other determinated values were not significant. Besides the clinical data, the mentioned groups presented the following characteristic output data: group A: decreased PEA and MHPG levels, group B, decreased PEA and normal MHPG levels and group C: normal values of the two substances. Five tricyclic antidepressant drugs were tested in the three groups. It was shown that patients with low pretreatment urinary output values of PEA and MHPG responded favourably to imipramine, desipramine and nortriptyline, alone or in association. On the other side, the group B responded favourably to chlorimipramine and amitriptiline, alone or in combination. No change or clinically worse were observed in patients of these groups when medication was not administrated according to the described form. The group with normal PEA and MHPG output values worsened or did not respond to medication following administration of any of the antidepressants essayed. Only psychotherapeutic treatment in combination with ansiolitics let to an improvement of symptomatology. At least, our findings suggest a closed clinical-biochemical-psychopharmacological correlate of some classes of depression that may provide rational basis for a more predictive tricyclic antidepressant therapy.
Measurement of 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid (HVA) in plasma by high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detector (HPLC-EC).	A simple and sensitive high-performance liquid chromatography method with electrochemical detector is described for the determination of free 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid (HVA) in human plasma. The method does not involve any extraction, is specific and reproducible, and has the potential to measure serotonin (5-HT) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) simultaneously. The plasma concentration of free HVA in eight normal, healthy adult volunteers was 10.9 +/- 4.6 (mean +/- SD). In a preliminary study, in one schizophrenic patient the plasma HVA increased twofold after neuroleptic treatment.
Serotoninergic depression--hypothesis or reality?]	Could we use the term "serotoninergic depression"? To answer this question various tests that seem to confirm the serotoninergic hypothesis of depression are described and their respective value ascertained. The measure of 5 HIAA (5 hydroxy indole acetic acid) in the cerebrospinal fluid has made it possible to isolate a population of depressed people with a low rate of this main metabolite of serotonin. This test seems to be linked with the frequency and the severity of attempts to commit suicide. The tryptophane, the direct serotonin's precursor, is reduced among some depressed people, for whom it could be used as a therapy. Blood platelet is used as a peripheral model of serotoninergic neuron; present research highlight among depressed people, decrease of serotonin uptake, of binding of tritiated imipramine, of monoamine oxidase, and of serum serotonin levels. Results analysis has been made difficult because of a lack of homogeneous methodologies: classification systems of depressions differ and the composition of test groups do not take into account physiological factors. In spite of these difficulties, we can try to describe the "serotoninergic depression" and consider this notion as a model for research.
Elevation of cytoplasmic free calcium concentration by stable thromboxane A2 analogue in human platelets.	9, 11-Epithio-11, 12-methano-thromboxane A2 (STA2), a stable analogue of thromboxane A2, caused a rapid rise in cytoplasmic free Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) in human platelets as measured with the fluorescent Ca2+ indicator quin2. Concomitantly, this compound induced phosphorylation of myosin light chain which is catalyzed by Ca2+, calmodulin-dependent protein kinase. These reactions were fast enough to trigger serotonin release. 13-Azaprostanoic acid, a receptor level antagonist of thromboxane A2 inhibited STA2-induced elevation of [Ca2+]i, phosphorylation of myosin light chain and serotonin release. These results provide evidence that STA2 interacts with a thromboxane A2 receptor which leads to elevation of [Ca2+]i.
Acute kidney failure and its treatment using hemodialysis]	Commonly the pathogenesis of acute renal failure (ARF) in the first place takes into consideration acute circulatory and acute toxic nephropathies. But disturbances in humoral regulations are important as well. Compensatory-adaptional reactions of the kidney answering the tubular lesion are causing increasing serum levels of renin, serotonin and histamin accompanied by a consecutive decrease of the diaminoxidase-activity, the latter as the hormone inactivating histamin. The results obtained form trials due to the dynamic behaviour of serotonin, histamin and diaminoxidase in the serum and urine respectively of 17 healthy persons (control), of 17 women with an ARF after abortation and of 5 patients with ARF from complications during pregnancy are reported. Rational managment of ARF should purchase an improvement in renal perfusion, the correction of metabolic deviation--among others--an increase of the diaminoxidase-activity.
5-Hydroxytryptamine content of the whole blood in psychiatric illness and alcoholism.	5-Hydroxytryptamine (5HT, serotonin) content of the whole blood has been measured in hospitalized groups of manic, depressed, schizophrenic and alcoholic patients; values were compared to non-psychotic controls. Only depressives had significantly different values. Alcoholics occupied an intermediate position between depressives and controls. Schizophrenics had virtually the same average level. Manic patients showed a very weak tendency toward higher values. Neuroleptic drugs in mania did not alter the blood 5HT levels, but in depression tricyclic antidepressants caused an elevation after 3 weeks of treatment. These post-treatment levels no longer differed significantly from those of non-psychotic controls.
An improved method for the isolation of dense storage granules from human platelets.	Pretreatment of human platelets with the metabolic inhibitors rotenone and 2-deoxyglucose, before French press homogenization, has led to the isolation of dense storage granules in an overall yield of about 20%. The concentrations of serotonin, ATP and ADP were estimated in the dense granules. Serotonin was 40--60-fold enriched in the dense granules compared to the platelet homogenate. Stored ATP and ADP were also 40-fold enriched in the dense granules compared to the estimated storage nucleotide pool in intact platelets. The ATP to ADP ratio in the isolated dense granules  was 0.68-0.70, the same as the ratio of the secreted ATP and ADP. In platelets prelabeled with [3H]adenine, the specific radioactivities of the ATP and ADP in the isolated dense granules and of the secreted ATP and ADP were both negligible, whereas the estimated specific radioactivity of the metabolically active ATP and ADP was 2,000 cpm/nmol. These results confirm that the ATP and ADP in the isolated dense granules are the same as the secreted ATP and ADP in terms of metabolic inactivity and their ATP to ADP ratios.
Accumulation of amines by rabbit erythrocytes in vitro.	1. Accumulation of noradrenaline (NA), 5-hydroxytryptamine (5HT) and tyramine by rabbit erythrocytes was measured at 37 degrees C in vitro. 2. Of the amines used only NA was broken down during incubation. This was a result of intracellular catechol-O-methyl transferase activity. 3. NA and 5HT entered the red cells by similar processes which were temperature-sensitive (cooling to 0 degrees C inhibited accumulation) and had saturation kinetics. The entry of NA was partially stereospecific; the (-)-isomer accumulated twice as fast as did (+)-NA. 5HT and NA competed for entry. Tyramine entry was unaffected by cooling, was not saturable and did not affect the entry of either NA or 5HT. NA and 5HT entered the erythrocytes at rates which were proportional to their lipid solubilities. 4. Metabolic inhibitors had no effect on amine transport. Inhibitors of amine transport in other tissues produced only small non-specific reductions of NA accumulation in the red cells. 5. Amine accumulation was a symmetrical process (no amine was retained by the red cells if the concentration gradient was reversed). It is concluded that NA and 5HT enter the cells by facilitated diffusion. The entry of NA and 5HT displayed countertransport, an additional feature of facilitated diffusion. 6. The relationship between the physical properties of the amines and the routes by which they entered the erythrocytes is discussed.
The effects of glutaraldehyde and formaldehyde fixation on the retention and subcellular location of [3H]5-hydroxytryptamine in rabbit platelets: a study using liquid scintillation counting and E.M. autoradiography.	The retention and loss of [3H]5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) from rabbit platelets during fixation was studied using liquid scintillation counting and quantitative electron-microscopic autoradiography. The results were at variance with previously reported data on human platelets. Following treatment of the platelets with either 2.0% formaldehyde or 2.5% glutaraldehyde for 2 min or 1 h it was found that a significantly increased proportion of the radioactivity was lost from treated as compared with untreated platelets. Using a method of analysis which accounts for cross-scatter of decay particles between cell compartments, electron-microscopic autoradiography revealed that 50% of the radioactivity following incubation of platelets with [3H]5-HT was associated with dense bodies and 30% in the cytoplasm when fixation was in formaldehyde or glutaraldehyde. The only major difference in the labelling pattern was that whereas glutaraldehyde appeared to retain no activity in the surface connected system the latter contained 12% of total retained activity following fixation with formaldehyde.
Gastric vascular actions of prostanoids and the dual effect of arachidonic acid.	The effects of several prostanoids and arachidonic acid on gastric vascular perfusion pressure were studied in dogs. A chambered segment of gastric fundus in anesthetized, heparin-treated dogs was perfused at constant flow (10 ml.min-1) with femoral arterial blood. Changes in perfusion pressure were measured after intra-arterial injection of each agent, at a point from which it reached the stomach in 3 s. Prostacyclin, prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), and PGE1 (5-40 ng) reduced perfusion pressure by 10-35 mmHg and were equipotent. 6-oxo-PGE1, the endoperoxide PGH2, and two stable prostacyclin analogues carbacyclin and 6 beta-PGI1 were less potent vasodilators, whereas 6-oxo-PGF1a was inactive. The epoxymethano endoperoxide analogues (U-46619 and U-44069) were equipotent vasoconstrictors, doses of 10-100 ng causing increases in perfusion pressure of 10-35 mmHg. PGF2a and noradrenaline also had vasoconstrictor actions. PGD2 had inconsistent actions. The effect of arachidonic acid on perfusion pressure varied with the length of time in contact with blood. Close (3 s incubation) intra-arterial injection (25-200 micrograms) produced vasodilation, whereas distal intra-arterial injection, which allowed 30 s of contact with blood before reaching the stomach, produced vasoconstriction as evidenced by dose-related increases in perfusion pressure (10-65 mmHg). These observations suggest that arachidonic acid, given by close intraarterial injection, is converted in the stomach mainly to vasodilator substances, presumably PGI2 or PGE2, but is converted mainly to a vasoconstrictor substance, presumably thromboxane A2, when allowed to mix with blood for 30 s.
Changes of kallikrein and serotonin in plasma during and after open-heart surgery.	Plasma kallikrein activity and plasma serotonin were studied during and after open-heart surgery in 15 patients with extracorporeal circulation and in 15 patients with surface-induced deep hypothermia. Following results were obtained: 1) Plasma kallikrein activity which reflects the activation of the kinin system, showed no significant change during extracorporeal circulation, and significantly increased three hours after the termination of perfusion. However, there was no significant difference in plasma kallikrein activity between the patients with and without low cardiac output syndrome (LOS). In surface-induced deep hypothermia, plasma kallikrein activity showed no significant change during and after operation. 2) Plasma serotonin significantly decreased during both extracorporeal circulation and hypothermia. Moreover, there was no significant difference in plasma serotonin between the patients with and without postoperative LOS or pulmonary hypertension. It is assumed that plasma serotonin may not play an important role in regulating blood pressure during or after open-heart surgery with either extracorporeal circulation or surface-induced deep hypothermia.
Platelet-activating factor stimulates the phosphatidylinositol cycle. Appearance of phosphatidic acid is associated with the release of serotonin in horse platelets.	The addition of platelet-activating factor to horse platelets prelabeled with (32P)orthophosphate induces the rapid formation of [32P]phosphatidic acid. This is subsequently followed by a considerable increase in the labeling of phosphatidylinositol. Activation of the formation of phosphatidic acid by platelet-activating factor is evident at a concentration of 1 nM, is maximal at 0.1 microM, and independent of the presence or absence of plasma in the medium. In horse platelets prelabeled with [14C]arachidonic acid, platelet-activating factor stimulates the rapid formation of [14C]phosphatidic acid, [14C]arachidonic acid, and [14C]arachidonate metabolites. Concomitantly, there is a loss of radioactivity from phosphatidylinostiol., phosphatidylcholine, and phosphatidylethanolamine. Platelet-activating factor at a concentration of 1 nM stimulates formation of phosphatidic acid while the appearance of arachidonate metabolites is seen at a higher concentration (10 nM), without acetate in the 2-position, is unable to induce in platelets the formation of phosphatidic acid, arachidonate metabolites, or the release of [3H]serotonin and, in addition, does not antagonize the action of platelet-activating factor. the release of [3H]serotonin and [14C]arachidonate from platelets stimulated with platelet-activating factor is not affected by indomethacin. Trifluoperazine (50-100 microM) inhibits the platelet-activating factor-stimulated liberation of arachidonic acid from phospholipids, without affecting the formation of phosphatidic acid and the release of serotonin. Prostacyclin, on the other hand, inhibits the platelet-activating factor-induced release of serotonin, arachidonate metabolites, and formation of phosphatidic acid. These data indicate a close relationship between the formation of phosphatidic acid and the release of serotonin in platelets stimulated with the platelet-activating factor.
The varicocele: new experimental and clinical data.	Numerous reports have shown that serotonin (5-HT) has a detrimental effect on spermatogenesis and androgen synthesis. Serotonin has two mechanisms of action on the testicle: (1) vasoconstrictive changes possibly causing premature sloughing of spermatozoa, and (2) alteration of androgen metabolism. The data in our animals with the experimental varicocele clearly mimic the human situation. All seminal parameters except volume are decreased after the varicocele is created. In many infertile patients with a varicocele, serotonin may be the inciting factor which results in subfertile semen. This is corroborated by the presence of elevated serotonin levels in spermatic vein plasma of most patients with a varicocele who undergo surgery. More data, comparing the relationship between spermatic vein and peripheral blood serotonin levels in patients with and without a varicocele, are needed. This investigation is being pursued in patients undergoing inguinal surgery for other lesions.
Plasma steady-state concentrations of hydroxylated metabolites of clomipramine.	Plasma clomipramine, desmethylclomipramine, 8-hydroxyclomipramine, and 8-hydroxydesmethylclomipramine concentrations were measured in nine obsessive-compulsive outpatients. The mean dose of clomipramine at steady state was 237.5 +/- 51.8 (SD) mg/24 hr. The mean concentrations at steady state were: clomipramine, 147.5 +/- 57.5; desmethylclomipramine, 313.0 +/- 170.0; 8-hydroxyclomipramine, 56.1 +/- 20.9; and 8-hydroxydesmethylclomipramine, 152.7 +/- 83.2 ng/ml. In vitro, the hydroxymetabolites of clomipramine and desmethylclomipramine exhibited serotonin reuptake potency of the same order as that of the parent compounds.
Effect of sulphinpyrazone on human platelet aggregation, 5-hydroxytryptamine release and adhesion ex vivo: comparison with naproxen.	1 The effects of single doses of naproxen and sulphinpyrazone and of 4 and 8 days treatment with sulphinpyrazone on human platelet responsiveness were compared. 2 A single dose of sulphinpyrazone had no effect whereas a single dose of naproxen caused a five-fold depression in responsiveness to collagen. 3 Repeated administration of sulphinpyrazone led to a weak and equivocal inhibitory effect on collagen-induced aggregation, second phase aggregation in response to ADP and adhesion to collagen. There was no effect on ADP-induced first phase aggregation, adrenaline-induced second phase aggregation or platelet retention in glass bead columns. 4 It is concluded that the anti-aggregant activity of sulphinpyrazone is too weak to be a major factor in its reported effect on the incidence of cardiac death.
A comparison of the pharmacodynamic profiles of nomifensine and amitriptyline in normal subjects.	1 Six healthy male volunteers participated in a double-blind placebo crossover comparison of the pharmacodynamic profiles of single oral doses of 75 mg nomifensine and 50 mg amitriptyline. 2 Nomifensine treatment did not influence salivary flow and did not significantly affect psychomotor performance (critical flicker fusion, pursuit rotor and reaction time): in addition nomifensine had no significant effect on subjective measurements of sedation and concentration. 3 By contrast, amitriptyline treatment significantly reduced salivary flow and was associated with significant sedation and reduced concentration: significant changes in psychomotor performance were also noted. 4 Plasma concentrations of amitriptyline and nomifensine were measured at 2 h. The respective median concentration values were 55.0 ng/ml and 52.0 ng/ml. 5 Ex vivo platelet amine uptake of dopamine (DA) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5HT) was measured 2 h after each treatment. Both nomifensine and amitriptyline treatment significantly inhibited DA uptake to a similar extent. Amitriptyline treatment additionally inhibited 5-HT uptake.
Evidence for two distinct serotonin transport systems in platelets.	Two transport systems for serotonin were measured independently in osmotic lysates of porcine platelets. After pre-equilibration with potassium phosphate and dilution into NaCl medium, only the plasma membrane transport system was observed. Under these conditions, serotonin accumulation is inhibited by imipramine, but not by reserpine or norepinephrine, and requires high (100 meq/liter) concentrations of Na+. In the presence of ATP at low (10 meq/liter) concentrations of Na+, only the transport system of the intracellular serotonin storage organelles was observed. Under these conditions, transport is inhibited by reserpine, norepinephrine, and epinephrine, but not by imipramine, and requires either ATP or an artificially imposed pH gradient (interior acidic) across the organelle membrane. These and other results suggest that accumulation of serotonin in platelet storage organelles is coupled predominantly to the pH gradient across the membrane.
Tetrahydro-beta-carbolines and corresponding tryptamines: In vitro inhibition of serotonin and dopamine uptake by human blood platelets.	Tetrahydro-beta-carbolines (THBCs), 6-methoxyharmalan and norharman and the corresponding open chain tryptamines studied inhibited t-hydroxytrypere better inhibitors of DA than 5-HT uptake but THBCs generally were far more potent inhibitors of 5-HT uptake than of DA uptake. 6-methoxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-beta-carboline was as potent as 5-HT itself 3H-5-HT uptake inhibition in platelets and the inhibition was competitive. All the beta-carbolines studied were more potent inhibitors of 3h-da uptake than DA itself. Contrary to results in rat brain synaptosomes, THBCs were more potent in platelets than the corresponding tryptamines with the freely rotating ethylamine side chain. Unsaturated beta-carbolines were weaker inhibitors than THBCs. The clear difference in the rank order of potencies of these compounds in human platelets and rat brain synaptosomes demonstrates that these different model systems for amine uptake studies do not always give comparable results. The results also suggest that there are differences in the uptake systems for 5-HT and DA in human platelets.
Change in the activity of the histamine and serotonin systems in acute obstruction of the mesenteric vessels]	It was shown in experiments on 24 dogs that acute occlusion of the cranial mesenteric artery results, depending on its duration, in biphasic changes in the activity of the histamine and serotonin systems. During intestinal ischemia there was an enhanced discharge of histamine and serotonin from mast cells with activation of their inhibitors (di- and monoamine oxidase). A remarkable inhibition of the histamine system enzymatic unit apart from a fall in serotonin activity because of progressing body poisoning by substances of microbial and metabolic origin were observed during intestinal infarction.
A pharmacokinetic analysis of the vagal release of 5-hydroxytryptamine in the cat.	The kinetics of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) release into the portal system after efferent electrical vagal stimulation were studied in an in vivo model. Blood samples were drawn from cats before, during and after vagal nerve stimulation, and portal plasma levels of 5-HT were measured. Portal plasma concentration of 5-HT rose during stimulation. After termination of stimulation, the plasma levels returned to steady state values and were used to calculate half-life and elimination rate constant. When pharmacokinetic principles were applied, the plasma half-life (T1/2) was determined to be 1.32 min and the elimination rate constant (KE), 0.5246 min-1. Pharmacokinetic principles also were applied to data from earlier in vitro studies using exogenously administered 5-HT, and a half-life of 1.03 min and a KE of 0.67 min-1 were calculated. Therefore, it appears that exogenously administered 5-HT and neurogenically released endogenous 5-HT are metabolized at a similar rate, both having a short half-life.
Platelet heterogeneity: relevance to the use of platelets to study psychiatric disorders.	Laboratory workers in fields outside of hematology have shown increased interest in the platelet as an investigative model over the past decade. Simultaneously, primary knowledge about platelet biology has expanded rapidly. It is now clear that many of the platelet's specific properties may influence the collection and interpretation of platelet-related, experimental data. or example, platelet heterogeneity, with respect to physical and function character exerts a significant impact on platelet-related experiments. This report highlights some of the recent advances in the area, with specific emphasis on the area of platelet aging and its effect on the use of platelets as an investigative tool.
Functional fractionation of platelets.	Studies of platelet populations suggest that they are heterogeneous in size, age, and metabolic parameters. In an attempt to correlate these parameters with efficiency of aggregation, a new technique, functional fractionation, was developed. Platelet populations are separated by their differential reactivity to aggregating agents. For example, low doses of ADP (0.1 to 0.7 microM) are added to stirred PRP, after which gentle centrifugation is used to remove aggregates from single unreacted platelets. The loose aggregates can be readily dispersed for comparison of the physical or biochemical properties of the reacted versus unreacted platelets. It was found that reactive platelets were larger (6.5  micrometer3) than unreacted platelets (5.51 micrometer3). No significant difference in density existed between the two populations, and no release of [14C]serotonin from prelabeled platelets occurred during functional fractionation. Scanning and transmission electron microscopy confirmed the size difference and revealed that in both populations platelets were structurally intact with a normal discoid shape and no significant difference in organelle content. Human platelets most reactive to ADP were also enriched in glycogen (3.6-fold), ATP (1.6-fold), and ADP (twofold), compared with less reactive cells. These "reactive" cells took up more 51[Cr] and contained 1.9 times more surface sialic acid. In an in vivo aging experiment, rats were injected with 75[Se]methionine. Shortly after labeling (1 day), the most reactive platelets possessed the highest amount of 75[Se]. These results reveal that functionally active platelets, which are also larger, are more active metabolically than less reactive platelets, possess a higher negative surface charge, and may be a younger population.
Spectrophotofluorometry of serotonin in blood platelets.	A rapid sensitive, and reproducible assay for determination of platelet serotonin is reported. Serotonin in extracted into an ascorbic acid solution by freezing and thawing and sonication. Ascorbic acid stabilizes the serotonin in the extract, and added ethanol enhances the final fluorescence of serotonin, which is measured in a concentrated hydrochloric acid medium (activation at 295 nm and emission at 540 nm). The method has an average coefficient of variation of 4.1%; 95% of added standards is accounted for. The average serotonin content of platelets from 15 men, ages 30-65 years, was 0.67 (SE 0.03) microgram/10(9) platelets, which compares favorably with previously reported values. 5-Hydroxyindole compounds such as 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid and 5-hydroxytryptophan interfere with the assay, but there is relatively little of these compounds in platelets.
Biodevelopmental aspects of conduct disorder in boys.	The association between biochemical parameters and conduct disorder (CD) was studied in 22 boys admitted to a residential center. Three-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG) levels were significantly higher in prepubertal CD youth than in pubertal/post pubertal CD youth. Homovanillic acid (HVA) levels were significantly lower in CD youth under age 12.0 years than in non CD youth under age 12.0 years. The implications of these biodevelopmental findings in the study of CD are discussed.
Platelet substance P and 5-hydroxytryptamine in migraine and tension-type headache.	Levels of substance P (SP) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) in platelets were measured in 25 patients with migraine, 31 patients with tension-type headache (TH) and 27 healthy controls. The mean concentration of SP in platelets was 355.3 pg/10(9) platelets in patients with migraine, 290.8 pg/10(9) platelets in patients with TH and 180.8 pg/10(9) platelets in the controls. The concentrations of platelet SP in the migrainous patients and in the TH patients were significantly higher than those in the controls. The mean concentration of 5-HT in platelets was 619.7 ng/10(9) platelets in patients with migraine, 579.3 ng/10(9) platelets in patients with TH and 811.9 ng/10(9) platelets in the controls. The concentration of platelet 5-HT in the patients with TH was significantly lower than that in the controls. The platelet SP/5-HT ratio in the migrainous patients and in the TH patients were significantly higher than that in the controls. There was significant negative correlation between the concentrations of platelet SP and those of platelet 5-HT. These results may support the hypothesis that SP released from the terminals of the trigeminal nerves causes migraine either through direct actions on the vessels or by releasing 5-HT from the platelets. The high levels of platelet SP in TH patients might reflect release of SP from the pain sensory system.
S.C.S. effectiveness in patients affected by peripheral chronic arterial disease: our 5 years experience.	Spinal cord stimulation (S.C.S.) showed a valid clinical effect in the treatment of chronic obliterative arteriopathy of the lower limbs at an advanced stage (III-IV stages) and of phantom limb pain syndrome (P.L.P.S.). Secretion patterns of various biochemical mediators were evaluated and mechanism, by which analgesic and vasodilatator actions occur, were thus accounted for. There is not agreement on this subject. We report our experience on 60 patients (age range 28-91), observed over the period 1987-92. Blood values of some chemical mediators (beta-endorphins, Kinins, Serotonin, PGE) were determined before and after stabilization of the S.C.S. implant (from 2 up to 6 months) and compared with the objective clinical and TCpO2 data. Statistical significance was checked of variations obtained (Student's "t" test). High significant increase of TCpO2, beta-endorphins, PGE, (p < 0.01) and the Kinins (p < 0.05) was found but there were no significant alteration of Serotonin. Results are explained and an S.C.S. effect at the spinal cord metamer level with a cortical integration (pointed out by the increase of the beta-endorphins) is suggested. Analgesic effectiveness and vasodilatator action of S.C.S. implant is stressed as long as it is carried out only when a correct indication is established in the absence of contraindications or important risk.
Recent developments in diagnosis and treatment of metastatic carcinoid tumours.	In carcinoid patients a tumour of enterochromaffin cell origin is present, which dependent on the site of origin can result in increased serotonin production. Metastasized carcinoids are often diagnosed by measuring 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid excretion in the urine. This excretion, however, can be influenced by food intake. On the other hand, serotonin measured in blood platelets is unaffected by food intake and, in addition, is found to be more sensitive. Therapy of metastasized carcinoids is directed at tumour reduction or only reduction of symptoms. Tumour reduction can be achieved surgically or by embolization. Combination chemotherapy has a maximum response percentage of about 33%. Over the last few years, both octreotide and interferon alpha have been used in these patients. They rarely result in a reduction of the tumour size (10-20%). Symptom reduction is achievable in most patients with these agents, however. Recently, increasing knowledge obtained concerning the various serotonin receptors and their antagonists is now being used in the treatment of patients with a metastasized carcinoid. In the future it is expected that the different modalities will be combined increasingly.
Serotonin irritation syndrome: an hypothesis.	Two patients were seen with multisystememic complaints and anxious feelings. Their history was similar for chronic exposure to potentially ionized atmospheric environments--a waterfall and high-voltage equipment. Physical examination showed various signs sometimes associated with hyperserotonergic states. Laboratory testing showed increased levels of serum serotonin and decreased levels of its metabolite, urinary 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA). Removal of the patients from these environments or the use of a serotonin-blocker ameliorated all symptoms and reestablished normal serotonin and 5-HIAA levels. A literature-review disclosed a similar symptom-complex reported with air-ionization during the sweep of hot winds across desert lands. Animal studies are cited in which cation aerosols are used to block serotonin metabolism, producing clinical and laboratory results some of which are similar to those seen in the patients described. It is suggested that a "serotonin irritation syndrome" might be related to cation-induced serotonin metabolic dysfunctions.
Serotonin metabolism following platinum-based chemotherapy combined with the serotonin type-3 antagonist tropisetron.	The administration of platinum-based chemotherapy induces serotonin release from the enterochromaffin cells, causing nausea and vomiting. This study was conducted to evaluate parameters of serotonin metabolism following platinum-based chemotherapy given in combination with the serotonin type-3 antagonist tropisetron as an antiemetic agent. In nine chemotherapy-naive patients with disseminated germ-cell tumors, parameters of serotonin metabolism in both blood and urine were evaluated during two consecutive courses of platinum-based chemotherapy. Serotonin concentrations in platelet-rich plasma and platelet-poor plasma as well as urinary 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) and serotonin levels were measured during the full length of the courses. By means of comparison with the antiemetic agent chlorpromazine, used on day 1 of the first course only, the effect of the serotonin type-3 antagonist tropisetron, the antiemetic agent used during the rest of the courses, on these parameters was studied. Clinical effects were also recorded. No change in the parameters of serotonin metabolism could be demonstrated during either course by the serotonin type-3 antagonist tropisetron. Also in vitro, no effect of tropisetron on the active serotonin uptake by platelets was found. Serotonin levels in platelets showed no correlation with emetic response. However, the platelet serotonin content decreased significantly between the first and the second course (P < 0.01). The significant reduction in platelet serotonin content observed between the first and the second course indicates a depletion of total body serotonin. The role of a serotonin type-3 antagonist might be affected by the altered serotonin equilibrium during later courses of chemotherapy.
Individual free fatty acids and migraine.	Total plasma free fatty acids (FFAs), platelet serotonin content and plasma stearic, palmitic, oleic and linoleic acids were estimated in 10 migrainous patients before, during and after a migraine attack. Total and individual plasma FFA levels rose and platelet serotonin fell in most patients. Comparison of the pre-headache and headache mean values showed that of the FFAs linoleic acid rises most during headache. 10 non-migrainous controls had platelet serotonin content estimated before and after the ingestion of 20g linoleic acid. All showed a significant fall in platelet serotonin in the post-ingestion period. It is shown that linoleic acid releases platelet serotonin in vitro, and this study suggests that it has the same action in vivo. Further, it is the precursor of all prostaglandins in the body and its marked elevation during migraine may serve as a source of increased prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) synthesis. It is suggested that linoleic acid plays an important role in the biochemical process of the migraine attack, acting both as a serotonin releasing factor and a source of PGF1, the vasodilating action of which can aggravate the clinical symptoms of migraine.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia: an improved method of detection based on lumi-aggregometry.	Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is a recognized complication of heparin administration. Early detection of this syndrome is essential in the prevention of immune-mediated thromboembolic sequelae. The 14C-serotonin release assay (SRA) has been used in reference laboratories to identify sera from patients on heparin therapy capable of inducing platelet dense granule release. In an attempt to improve existing methodologies, we employed luminographic detection of platelet-dense granule ATP release as an endpoint of HIT antibody-mediated platelet activation. Sera tested included 10 SRA confirmed positive and five SRA confirmed negative samples (to establish the assay), five samples from patients with thrombocytopenia not on heparin therapy and 34 patients suspected of HIT syndrome. All SRA confirmed positive sera (n = 19) were positive by the luminographic procedure. 24/26 SRA confirmed negative sera and five sera from thrombocytopenic patients not on heparin therapy were negative using luminography. Two of four sera yielding equivocal SRA results were found to be positive by the luminographic technique. The data suggest that the use of a lumiaggregometer in the coagulation laboratory to detect HIT antibody-induced platelet activation is a reliable alternative to the SRA. The luminographic procedure is both rapid and sensitive, and does not require the use of biohazardous radio-isotopes.
Plasma neurotransmitters, blood pressure, and heart rate during supine-resting, orthostasis, and moderate exercise conditions in major depressed patients.	Major depressed patients showed greater heart rate, noradrenaline, and free-serotonin values than normal. Conversely, platelet-serotonin values in major depressed patients were significantly lower than normal. Patients registered the normal differential blood pressure reduction during orthostasis. They also revealed progressive and significantly higher heart rate rises during orthostasis and exercise periods, when compared to normals. Whereas noradrenaline showed maximal rises during the two last periods, adrenaline only showed small but significant increase during exercise. The analysis of correlations, together with the above data, suggests that major depressed patients register maximal neural sympathetic activity as well as adrenal glands sympathetic hypoactivity. In addition, these patients show hyperparasympathetic activity, as reflected by the free-serotonin profile. Finally, the fact that both the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale and the self-rating Beck Depression Inventory correlated positively with noradrenaline/adrenaline ratio and free-serotonin values strongly suggests that both neural sympathetic and cholinergic mechanisms are involved in major depression.
Tyrosine kinase inhibitors regulate serotonin uptake in platelets.	Uptake of tritiated serotonin into human platelets was found to be rapidly inhibited by the tyrosine kinase inhibitors, genistein and methyl 2,5-dihydroxycinnamate. Binding studies indicated that uptake inhibition did not correlate with direct binding of these inhibitors to the transporter. Chelation of mobilizable intracellular Ca2+ did not inhibit the effects of genistein on uptake. These results suggest a more direct, non-Ca2+ mediated effect of tyrosine kinase inhibitors on uptake.
Status of the sympatho-adrenal system in patients with diabetes mellitus: dependence on the course of the disease and the presence of late complications]	Blood plasma concentrations of noradrenaline, dopamine, serotonin and their metabolites (DOPAC, HVA, 5HIAA) were measured in 28 patients with insulin-dependent and 32 with noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM and NIDDM, respectively). The patients were divided into 4 groups. Group 1 were 15 patients without late diabetic complications, group 2 were 15 subjects with diabetic neuropathy, group 3 were patients with neuropathy and retinopathy (n = 16), and group 4 were 14 patients with neuropathy, retinopathy, and nephropathy. The results showed an increase of serotonin levels in IDDM patients vs. those with NIDDM, a positive correlation between serotonin and blood glucose levels in IDDM, increased concentration of dopamine and reduced plasma level of noradrenaline in patients with diabetic neuropathy vs. those without late diabetic complications. Plasma levels of dopamine were decreased in all the patients microvascular involvement. The findings indicate the development of changes in the sympathoadrenal system of patients with late diabetic vascular complications.
A correlation of 5-hydroxytriptamine and cerebral vasoreactivity in patients with migraine.	Cerebral haemodynamics and the level of serum 5-hydroxytriptamine (5-HT) were analysed in 21 migraine patients (8 with and 13 without aura) during the headache-free period as well as the attack. Cerebral vasoreactivity was evaluated by acetazolamide test and Transcranial Doppler ultrasonography (TCD). TCD findings were within normal ranges in the majority of migraine patients. Patients with migraine without aura had higher blood flow velocities (BFV) than patients with aura. Comparison of BVF and pulsatility index (PI) data patterns in migraine with and in migraine without aura during the attack revealed differences indicating cerebral hypoperfusion. It was noticed that systolic BFV decreased in migraine with aura on the headache side while PI increased. In migraine without aura, both systolic BFV and PI increased. 5-HT findings were heterogeneous. Reduction of cerebral vasoreactivity was observed especially in migraine with aura. Our results suggest different pathogenic mechanisms between migraine with and without aura, supporting the neurogenic inflammation theory.
Platelet activation in major surgical stress: influence of combined epidural and general anaesthesia.	Platelets are activated in surgery releasing vasoactive substances such as serotonin and thromboxane. Platelets become temporarily hypoaggregable during surgery followed by a postoperative hyperaggregability. Local anaesthetics are known to inhibit platelet function but earlier reports are conflicting. In order to study the impact of the combined use of general and regional anaesthesia on platelet function during major surgery 16 otherwise healthy patients were randomised to either general anaesthesia (GA) (n = 8) or GA combined with epidural anaesthesia (GA+EPI) (n = 8) for elective upper abdominal surgery. Cyclic 3',5' adenosine monophosphate, plasma glucose, plasma cortisol and the rate pressure product (RPP) were markers of the stress response. ADP-induced platelet aggregation and the release products beta-thromboglobulin, serotonin and thromboxane 2 were measured in plasma before and during as well as for 3 days after surgery. A marked stress response was noted in both groups and epidural anaesthesia (EPI) only reduced the rate pressure product (RPP). Platelet aggregation was reduced during surgery, a little more so in the GA+EPI group. Postoperatively both groups showed significant hyperaggregability. The release products were not significantly influenced by regional anaesthesia. In conclusion epidural as combined with general anaesthesia affects platelet responses to major abdominal surgery only to a minor extent, although it may attenuate the haemodynamic response.
Effects of sleep deprivation on serotonin function in depression.	There is considerable evidence that antidepressant treatments enhance serotonin (5-HT) function. In order to evaluate whether sleep deprivation (SD) produces alterations in 5-HT function, the increase in prolactin (PRL) produced by intravenous tryptophan (TRP) was assessed in depressed patients following SD and undisturbed sleep (US). Eleven depressed patients received mood ratings and TRP infusions after either SD or US, 1 week apart. In five women, but not six men, the TRP-induced PRL rise was markedly enhanced after SD compared to US. Mood score changes were not significantly different between US and SD and there was no significant relationship of mood changes to the TRP induced PRL response. The data suggests that SD produces an increase in 5HT function in female depressed patients. The lack of identified SD-induced changes in 5-HT function in men may be due to lower sensitivity of the TRP-induced PRL rise in depressed men than women.
The effect of an increased intensity of light on changes in the serotonin and melatonin content in patients with depression]	Study into the effect of light of increased intensity shows that in patients with anxious depression a high level of melatonin excretion declines to normal, its low level in melancholic depression remaining unchanged. Blood concentrations of serotonin in depressive patients are higher as compared with the healthy persons and do not change with increasing in the brightness of the illumination except for a decrease in a portion of patients showing maximum levels of serotonin and melanin.
Effect of L-thyroxine and carbimazole on blood levels of biogenic amines in rat.	Circulating levels of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5HT), histamine, monoamine oxidase (MAO), histaminase, tri-iodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4) were studied in L-thyroxine and carbimazole treated rats. Increased concentrations of 5-HT, histamine, glutamate, T3 and T4 were recorded in L-thyroxine-treated rats while plasma gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), MAO and histaminase levels were significantly decreased. Considerable reduction in 5-HT, glutamate, T3 and T4 with trend towards the rise in plasma levels of MAO and histaminase was noticed in carbimazole treated group. There was a significant correlation between these amines and thyroid hormone values. The findings suggest that alterations in the metabolism of thyroid hormones may have a link with the altered metabolism of biogenic amines.
Circadian rhythm of tryptophan, serotonin, melatonin, and pituitary hormones in schizophrenia.	Circadian rhythm abnormalities have been described mostly with respect to manic-depressive illness; little information is available concerning circadian rhythms and schizophrenia or their influence on neuroleptic drugs. We showed previously that the MESOR of dopamine is higher in schizophrenic patients than in healthy subjects and that women who are drug-free schizophrenic have lower prolactin MESORs and lower amplitudes than healthy women. We now report the data of a cosinor analysis of tryptophan, serotonin, melatonin, and pituitary hormones in the blood of 34 healthy subjects, 90 drug-free schizophrenics, and 25 neuroleptic-treated schizophrenic patients. This data indicated a significant phase advance of serum tryptophan, prolactin, and melatonin concentrations, a trend toward a phase advance in serotonin. Thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), and growth hormone concentrations, and decreases in the TSH MESORs among patients compared to healthy subjects. These results suggest that circadian changes, such as phase advances and alterations in MESOR, are not only present in depression but also in schizophrenia. Although neuroleptic treatment raised the prolactin MESOR and amplitude, it did not elicit any change in circadian rhythmicity among the other parameters.
Effect of 6R-L-erythro-5,6,7,8-tetrahydrobiopterin on the extracellular levels of dopamine and serotonin in the rat striatum: a microdialysis study with tyrosine or tryptophan infusion.	The present study demonstrates the effects of 6R-L-erythro-5,6,7,8-tetrahydrobiopterin (6R-BH4) on turnover of dopamine and serotonin (5-HT) in rat striatum during continuous infusion of the amino acids tyrosine and tryptophan. By monitoring with microdialysis, it was found that the increase in dopamine and homovanillic acid (HVA) concentrations in rat striatal extracellular fluid (ECF) induced by 6R-BH4 was further enhanced by the continuous infusion of tyrosine at a relatively low dose (1 mumol/min/kg) as compared with the concentration which saturates tyrosine hydroxylation. This dose of tyrosine alone did not induce the elevation of dopamine and HVA concentrations in ECF. In contrast, though the concentration of 5-HT and 5-HIAA in striatal ECF was gradually increased by tryptophan infusion, 6R-BH4 had no further effect. Although the higher output of dopamine into ECF was induced by the dialytic perfusion of 6R-BH4 via the microdialysis probe into striatum, tyrosine infusion had no further effect on dopamine concentration in the dialysates. The in vivo measurement of DOPA accumulation during NSD 1015 perfusion suggests that the enhancement of dopamine concentration in ECF induced by tyrosine infusion and 6R-BH4 might be attributable to an increase in tyrosine hydroxylase activity in striatum. Tryptophan hydroxylase was also activated by tryptophan infusion and/or 6R-BH4, however, it did not induce an increase in 5-HT concentration in striatal ECF.
Enterosorption as a method for correction of biogenic amine levels in experimental bronchospasm]	The mechanism of enterosorption positive influence on the course of bronchospastic condition was studied on the model of allergic bronchospasm. The using of the sorbent (polyphepan) during the period of sensitization of rats prevented the beginning of bronchospasm or reduced its extent. The results of investigation proved that a decrease the of biogenic amines concentration in biological liquids and tissues depending on their transport and sorption in intestine is one of the main mechanisms of enterosorption.
The serotonin content in human platelets is unstable: data and possible mechanisms]	The study of serotonin content in platelets showed the instability of this trait and its interrelation with plasma serotonin. The oscillations of platelet serotonin are stabilized by the removing of plasma proteins, calcium and by incubation with lithium. The model of synchronization of serotonin transport via the membrane of platelets bound into a spongy net by fibrinogen molecules is discussed.
Estimation of rate constants for serotonin uptake and compartmentation in normal human platelets.	Biochemical and pharmacological experiments led to a model describing a thrombin-releasable (vesicular) compartment and two non-thrombin-releasable compartments for 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT, serotonin) in normal human platelets (J. L. Costa, K. L. Kirk, D. L. Murphy, and H. Stark. Br. J. Pharmacol. 72: 449-459, 1981). With tritiated 5-HT as substrate, the amounts of total and nonreleasable intraplatelet tritiated material were measured. Moreover, in the last set of experiments, the amounts of extraplatelet tritiated material and extraplatelet tritiated 5-HT were also measured. With these data, identification of the kinetic constants for movement between the various compartments was possible. A recent extension of the similarity transformation approach to nonlinear compartmental models was used to carry out the a priori identifiability analysis. Then numerical identification was performed by implementing and achieving efficient methods from optimal control theory. Under our experimental conditions, the main results are as follows: 1) the vesicular compartment corresponds to the platelet storage 5-HT compartment, 2) instead of pools I and II proposed previously, only a single nonreleasable thrombin-resistant pool could be detected, and 3) the optimized model computed to suit the first set of experiments fits homologous intraplatelet results obtained under similar experimental conditions in the last set of experiments and also fits one of the two supplementary extraplatelet investigations.
Evidence for a role of glycoprotein IIb-IIIa, distinct from its ability to support aggregation, in platelet activation by ionophores in the presence of extracellular divalent cations.	Ionophore A23187-induced 14C-serotonin secretion and thromboxane B2(TxB2) formation were found to be absent in citrated platelet-rich plasma (PRP) from thrombasthenic subjects and in normal PRP treated with glycoprotein (GP) IIb-IIIa complex-specific monoclonal antibodies. Both responses were restored to normal levels when 5 mmol/L EDTA was present, indicating that their absence was not caused by the absence of aggregation per se. In gel-filtered platelets (GFP) incubated with various additions, the blockade or absence of GPIIb-IIIa resulted in reduced A23187-induced secretion and TxB2 formation in media containing 1 mmol/L Ca2+ with or without fibrinogen and 1 mmol/L Mg2+ plus fibrinogen, but not when Ca, Mg-free buffer alone, 1 mmol/L EDTA, or fibrinogen alone were present. In contrast, no such dependence or GPIIb-IIIa was seen in GFP stimulated with thrombin or phorbol myristate acetate in the presence of 1 mmol/L Ca2+, 1 mmol/L EDTA, or buffer alone. The inhibition of ionophore-induced responses seen in both normal GFP treated with antibodies and thrombasthenic GFP was not associated with any significant alteration of the ionophore-mediated [Ca2+]i increase, as measured in both aequorin-loaded GFP stimulated with A23187 and fura-2-loaded GFP stimulated with ionomycin. Incubation of normal GFP with either the monoclonal antibodies or the ligand binding site peptide RGDS in the presence of 1 mmol/L Ca2+ caused virtually complete inhibition of A23187-induced aggregation, measured as the loss of single platelets, but RGDS, in contrast to the antibodies, did not inhibit secretion or TxB2 formation. We conclude that platelet activation induced by ionophores in the presence, but not in the absence, of extracellular divalent cations involves a GPIIb-IIIa-dependent process that most likely involves a property of the ligand-occupied form of the complex distinct from its ability to support aggregation. This could represent another example of an aggregation-independent activity of the receptor-occupied state of the GPIIb-IIIa complex in signal transduction.
Role of 5-hydroxytryptamine in the progression of monocrotaline induced pulmonary hypertension in rats.	The aim was to clarify the role of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) in monocrotaline induced pulmonary hypertension.
Urinary catecholamine excretion and blood serotonin content in juvenile hypothalamic syndrome]	Daily urinary adrenalin, noradrenaline, dopamine excretion and blood levels of serotonin were measured over the course of the cycle in 8 healthy girls and in 52 patients with the juvenile hypothalamic syndrome in the acute and chronic stages. These parameters were found virtually the same in healthy girls and in those suffering from the hypothalamic syndrome in the course of the cycle or in patients during the acute and chronic stages of the condition. Urinary catecholamine excretion and blood serotonin levels were increased by 1.5-2 times in the acute stage of the syndrome and somewhat reduced in the chronic stage; this appears to be due to reduced activity of the sympathoadrenal system in the course of disease progress.
Increase in serotonin levels in the dog ileum and blood by cisplatin as measured by microdialysis.	Involvement of ileal and circulating serotonin (5-HT) levels in cisplatin-induced emesis was examined using a microdialysis technique and an extraction method in dogs. The 5-HT levels in the ileal dialysate were increased to 232-294% of the basal level from 100 to 180 min after cisplatin administration (3 mg/kg, i.v.) and had returned to the basal level 280 min after dosing. The 5-HT levels in the blood dialysate were increased to 424-2165% from 140 to 180 min after dosing. The concentrations of 5-HT determined by HPLC following extraction were increased to 271% in the ileal mucosa and to 478% in plasma 3 hr after dosing. In immunohistochemistry, the number of 5-HT-immunoreactive cells was increased to 166% in the ileal mucosa following cisplatin treatment. These results strongly suggest that increases in the release and synthesis of 5-HT in the gut, probably in the enterochromaffin cells, are intimately involved in cisplatin-induced emesis.
Platelet of Alzheimer patients: increased counts and subnormal uptake and accumulation of [14C]5-hydroxytryptamine.	Platelets are the main source of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and amyloid precursor protein (APP) found in plasma. We studied a possible correlation between platelet markers and the clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer disease (AD). Our results indicate that in AD patients: (a) platelets are elevated, (b) their ability to accumulate 5-HT decreases and, (c) the kinetic parameters of 5-HT uptake are altered (decreased Km and Vmax), compared to non-demented healthy individuals. An aged Down syndrome patient presents even more deviant alterations. Our findings supports the idea that platelets may provide a systemic marker of AD, and eventually be useful for the clinical diagnosis of the disease.
Inhibitory effects of S-(1,2-dicarboxyethyl)glutathione on collagen-induced platelet aggregation; enhancements of cyclic AMP level and adenylate cyclase activity in platelets by S-(1,2-dicarboxyethyl)glutathione.	S-(1,2-Dicarboxyethyl)glutathione (DCE-GS) in addition to being present in the liver, lens, and heart, also inhibited platelet aggregation. To clarify these inhibitory effects, the role of DCE-GS in the release of ATP and serotonin from platelets was studied, as was thromoboxane A2 formation, cyclic AMP level and adenylate cyclase activity in human platelets. The results are as follows: DCE-GS at a concentration of 1.3 mM inhibited ATP and serotonin release from platelets induced by collagen, by 77.4 +/- 4.3 and 78.7 +/- 6.3%, respectively. At 1.5 mM DCE-GS also inhibited the formation of thromboxane B2 by 79.6 +/- 4.1%. Incubation of human platelet rich plasma with 2 mM of DCE-GS for 10 min increased the cyclic AMP level and the activity of adenylate cyclase by 204 +/- 28 and 211 +/- 11.7%, respectively. These results suggest that the inhibitory effect of DCE-GS on the platelet aggregation induced by collagen is due to an increase in the cyclic AMP level in platelets, which in turn may be due to enhancement of the activity of adenylate cyclase.
5HT in migraine patients with medication-induced headache.	Whole blood 5HT levels were measured in seven female migraine sufferers with chronic daily headache due to medication abuse, before and after abrupt medication withdrawal. A statistically significant increase in 5HT levels, from mean 4.89 mumol/l to mean 6.59 mumol/l (p < 0.05, Wilcoxon signed rank test), occurred after 4 weeks of withdrawal. We conclude from this pilot study that 5HT may be important in the physiopathogenesis of chronic daily headache. Alternatively, reduced 5HT may be the result of chronic daily headache or else an epiphenomenon.
Blood platelet function, plasma serotonin and lipid metabolism in patients with diabetic nephropathy]	Accelerated atherosclerosis is commonly observed in diabetes mellitus as well as in some kidney diseases. This may be partly due to platelet hyperactivity. Serotonin (5-HT) is thought to play a role in platelet/vessel wall interactions and to be implicated in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. The aim of the study was to evaluate platelet aggregation and peripheral serotonergic system in patients with diabetic nephropathy. The studies were performed in 37 patients with diabetic nephropathy (age 53.5 +/- 14.9) and healthy volunteers (age 44.2 +/- 12.3). Platelet aggregation (in PRP according to Born) induced by collagen (2 micrograms/ml), ADP (5 microM), epinephrine (10 microM) arachidonic acid (0.25 mM) and 5-HT (1 microM) was found to be significantly enhanced in diabetic relative to controls. Whole blood 5-HT was significantly lower in diabetics patients, whereas plasma 5-HT was significantly higher in diabetic patients when compared to controls. Since serotonin can amplify platelet aggregatory responses to various agonists, platelet hyperactivity in diabetes may be in part due to an enhanced availability of this amine. Disturbances in peripheral serotonergic system together with platelet hyperaggregability may be associated with an increased incidence of cardiovascular complications in diabetes.
Biogenic amines and adrenal cortical function in breast cancer]	Under study were the content of serotonin and 11-OCS in blood and diurnal excretion of 5-OIAA, adrenaline and noradrenaline in 71 pateints with breast cancer. The data obtained indicated that the examined patients, compared with the control group, show a reliably higher concentration of serotonin and 11-OCS in blood (70.4% and 19.5% correspondingly), an insignificantly increased excretion of 5-OIAA, a markedly increased diurnal excretion of adrenaline (by 96.4%), whereas a decreased excretion of noradrenaline (by 73.1%). The character of changes in the indices under study was definitely dependent on the stage of the disease (in stages 1-11 these changes were mostly pronounced), and patients' age (in young patients the adrenal cortex activity was rather intensive, whereas in aged patients biologically active substances were manifest).
Hyperserotonemia and amine metabolites in autistic and retarded children.	Mean whole blood serotonin (5-HT) levels were elevated in groups of autistic and severely retarded children. Eight of 27 (30%) individual autistic children, 13 of 25 (52%) severely retarded children, two of 23 (9%) mildly retarded children, and none of the control children had statistically significant blood 5-HT levels elevations (hyperserotonemia). Hyperserotonemic autistic children excreted more urinary 5-HT, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), tryptamine, and vanillylmandelic acid than did mildly retarded children with normal blood 5-HT levels. Rates of depletion and repletion of blood 5-HT levels in these two groups following reserpine therapy were identical. Oral tryptophan administration doubled urinary 5-HIAA excretion in both groups and raised urinary 5-HT levels in hyperserotonemic autistic children, but lowered urinary 5-HT in mildly retarded, normal blood 5-HT children. No clear mechanism for hyperserotonemia was found; the rationale for further investigations is discussed.
Psychotropic drugs and migraine.	The incidence and differential diagnosis of migraine is discussed. The use of clomipramine (Anafranil) in the prophylaxis of migraine is considered and the results of a pilot study presented. The problems which arise in the organization of clinical trials of migraine prophylaxis and hypotheses for the possible mode of action of clomipramine and other psychotropic drugs in the prevention of migraine are discussed.
Studies on the ionophorous antibiotics. VIII. Effects of monovalent and divalent cation ionophores on blood platelets.	The effects of a monovalent cation ionophore etheromycin (CP-38295) and a divalent cation ionophore lysocellin on blood platelets function have been investigated. When platelets were incubated with 3 micronM of each ionophore, the simultaneous induction of secretion of stored serotonin and efflux of intracellular calcium occurred, but there was no detectable influx of extracellular calcium. With increasing concentrations, these compounds caused platelet aggregation accompanied by increased influx of external calcium. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that the liberation of calcium from the intracellular store mediated the platelet secretion reaction.
Involvement of somatostatin, bombesin and serotonin in the origin of the migrating myoelectric complex in sheep.	Antroduodenal myoelectric activity was recorded in conscious sheep by electrodes chronically implanted in the muscular wall. Furthermore, plasma immunoreactive (i.r.) motilin, somatostatin and bombesin concentrations were determined by RIA. The intravenous infusion of somatostatin (20 ng/kg/min), bombesin (10 ng/kg/min) or serotonin (5-HT, 4 micrograms/kg/min) for 5 min, induced a duodenal myoelectric activity front followed by a period of quiescence. These duodenal events were concomitant with an antral inhibition. This pattern resembled that observed in a spontaneous migrating myoelectric complex (MMC) in sheep. Bombesin and 5-HT evoked an additional and transient increase in antral activity simultaneously with the duodenal activity front. On the other hand, plasma i.r. motilin levels did not show any fluctuations during spontaneous MMC cycles or after somatostatin, bombesin or 5-HT infusions. Likewise, plasma i.r. bombesin levels remained unchanged during spontaneous MMC or after administration of somatostatin. However, 5-HT -induced duodenal activity fronts were closely associated with a sharp peak in plasma i.r. bombesin. Finally, plasma i.r. somatostatin concentrations rose at the end of spontaneous phase III and peaked in phase I. A similar pattern of somatostatin release in plasma was found while the duodenal activity front and quiescence period developed after either 5-HT or bombesin infusions. These results do not indicate a role for motilin in the control of MMCs in sheep, although a definitive conclusion cannot be drawn until synthetic sheep motilin is available. However, our data suggest that somatostatin and bombesin-like peptides as well as 5-HT, acting in a coordinated manner, could be involved in the regulation of cyclical antroduodenal motor events in sheep.
The FcgammaRII receptor triggers pp125FAK phosphorylation in platelets.	Platelets express a single low affinity receptor for immunoglobulin, FcgammaRII, that triggers multiple cellular responses upon interaction with multivalent immune complexes. In this study we show that immobilized IgG is also a potent stimulant of platelet activation triggering adhesion, aggregation, massive dense granule secretion, and thromboxane production. Platelet adhesion to IgG was blocked by the FcgammaRII receptor-specific monoclonal antibody, IV. 3. Pretreatment of the platelets with cytochalasin D to inhibit actin polymerization similarly prevented cell binding to IgG having no effect on platelet binding to fibrinogen. Platelet adhesion to IgG also led to the induction of tyrosine phosphorylation of multiple proteins including pp125(FAK) and p72(SYK). These proteins were also tyrosine-phosphorylated in alphaIIbbeta3-deficient IgG-adherent platelets from patients with Glanzmann's thrombasthenia. These data demonstrate that FcgammaRII mediates pp125(FAK) phosphorylation and platelet adhesion to IgG independent of the integrin alphaIIbbeta3. Treatment of the platelets with bisindolylmaleimide to inhibit protein kinase C prevented phosphorylation of pp125(FAK) as well as several other proteins, but not p72(SYK) phosphorylation. This study establishes that the FcgammaRII receptor mediates pp125(FAK) phosphorylation via protein kinase C.
Validation of HPLC-amperometric detection to measure serotonin in plasma, platelets, whole blood, and urine.	We describe an isocratic liquid-chromatographic method with amperometric detection for determination of serotonin by rapid sample preparation. Platelet-poor plasma and platelets were injected after a single deproteinization step with perchloric acid. Addition of sodium borohydride to whole blood avoids oxidation of serotonin during the deproteinization step without any chromatographic interferences. We purified urinary serotonin by two successive cationic and anionic extraction steps. After urine dilution, urinary 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) was measured under the same chromatographic conditions. Platelet serotonin concentrations correlated more closely with whole-blood serotonin concentrations after correction for platelet number than with concentrations expressed in nmol/L. This suggests that whole-blood serotonin measurements should be corrected for platelet count to eliminate the variability of circulating platelets. Combined determination of serotonin in whole blood and urine and of 5-HIAA in urine provides a useful tool for detecting and monitoring carcinoid tumors.
Systemic mastocytosis with myeloid splenomegaly type hematological manifestations]	The authors report the case of a patient suffering from systemic mastocytosis with cutaneous, medullary, bone, hepatic and splenic involvement, the clinical and haematological picture of which was that of myeloid splenomegaly. Furthermore, this picture included hypersplenism, clearly demonstrated by isotopic study and the successful results of splenectomy. Blood histamine levels were normal though urinary excretion of histamine was increased. Histamine levels in the spleen were greatly increased. Serotonin levels in the blood and its urinary metabolites were normal. Heparin activity was demonstrated in the spleen, but not in the blood.
Serotonin metabolism in cystic fibrosis.	The average blood serotonin level of 67 children with cystic fibrosis was found to be about twice that of age-matched normal children. There was no corresponding increase in the urinary excretion of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA). Children with cystic fibrosis were well able to metabolize serotonin taken by mouth. No significant correlations were found between the blood serotonin level and the platelet count, height, weight, skinfold thickness, and pulmonary function test, 5 out of 44 patients had raised serum IgE levels, and their mean blood serotonin was higher than in those with normal IgE levels. No explanation for this emerged. Comparable findings (raised blood serotonin normal platelet count, normal urinary 5-HIAA) have been reported only in severe mental retardation. Further study of this phenomenon is warranted because (a) a raised blood serotonin level is sufficiently characteristic of cystic fibrosis to explore its use in diagnosis, and (b) it may help to explain the pathogenesis of cystic fibrosis and (c) the metabolism and function of serotonin.
Relationship between opioid peptides and mediator systems in children]	Examinations of 98 healthy children and prepubertal and pubertal adolescents have revealed sex-related differences in blood plasma levels of beta-endorphin and methionine-enkephalin: the content of these peptides was higher in pubertal boys. Blood plasma leucin enkephalin content of boys and girls was virtually unchanged over the entire period of sexual maturation. Analysis of correlations helped detect the relationship between the examined peptides and the end product of catecholamine metabolism, vanilmandelic acid, and a negatively significant relationship between beta-endorphin and serotonin levels.
The influence of alprazolam on the monoaminergic neurotransmitter systems in dysthymic patients. Relationship to clinical response.	The effects of alprazolam (1.5 mg/die) on the levels of the monoaminergic neurotransmitter metabolites, on the activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and on clinical outcome in subjects with primary late-onset dysthymia were investigated. Drug treatment significantly decreased plasma and urinary cortisol levels, serotonin platelet-bound and urinary 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol concentrations, while it increased plasma homovanillic acid (HVA) concentrations. Significant relationships were observed between neurochemicals and global scores or some items of the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale, before and after treatment. Patients responded positively (73%) to the therapy; clinical outcome was significantly correlated with plasma and urinary HVA levels. Collected data seem to support the hypothesis that central monoaminergic systems are in part involved in therapeutic response to alprazolam.
Overt behavior problems and serotonergic function in middle childhood among male and female offspring of alcoholic fathers.	A large body of literature indicates that the serotonergic system is involved in behavioral regulation, as evidenced by the inverse relationship between impulsive aggression and serotonergic function found in adult alcoholics and nonalcoholics. However, studies of this relationship among child and adolescent offspring of alcoholics (COAs) have not previously been done. This study examines the potentially parallel relationship between behavioral dysregulation and low serotonergic function in young COAs. The relationship is of potential interest as a phenotypic marker of biological vulnerability to aggressiveness, which itself has been hypothesized to be a risk factor for later antisocial alcoholism. The present work is part of an ongoing prospective study of the development of risk for alcohol abuse/dependence and other problematic outcomes in a sample of families subtyped by the fathers' alcoholism classification. We examined the relationship between overt behavior problems in middle childhood (mean age = 10.5 +/- 1.7 years) and whole blood serotonin (5-HT) in a subsample of the offspring (N = 32 boys and 12 girls). Using a Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL) index of behavioral undercontrol, we obtained results indicating that high total behavior problem (TBP) children had lower levels of whole blood 5-HT than did low-TBP children (p < 0.01). These results support the hypothesis that there is an inverse relationship between whole blood serotonin levels and behavior problems in young male and female COAs. A father's alcoholism status was not significantly related to his child's 5-HT level, i.e., the child's phenotypic expression of behavioral dysregulation was more reliably connected to serotonergic function than was paternal alcoholism.
Impaired platelet binding of fibrinogen due to a lower number of GPIIB/IIIA receptors in polycythemia vera.	We have previously described a stimulus-specific defect in platelet aggregation in polycythaemia vera (PV) after stimulation with surface receptor dependent agonists such as platelet activating factor (PAF). In contrast, responses to phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) were normal. We now report that after PAF stimulation, using flow cytometry, the amount of fibrinogen bound to its receptor was significantly lower in PV platelets with a median MFI of 6.0 (range 4.1-17.3) compared to controls, 12.8 (range 8-21.3; n=11; p<0.01). We found no evidence of preactivation of PV platelets. Quantitative analysis of GPIIIa gave a significantly lower number of GPIIIa on resting PV platelets, 14300 subunits of GPIIIa (range 8500-15500) vs. 19800 for controls (range 13400-26800; n=12; p<0.01). Both patients and controls increased their number of receptors on the cell surface after stimulation with PAF and PMA, but the significant difference in the number of receptors per cell remained. Indirect evaluation of PAF receptor function showed that activation of CD 62 did not differ in PV and controls after PAF stimulation. Additionally, although the basal level of serotonin in platelet-rich plasma was significantly lower in PV, there was a threefold increase of the basal level after stimulation with PAF for both PV and control platelets, also indicating a normal interaction of PAF with its receptor. Although our results indicate both an impaired PAF induced aggregation in PV and a lower number of GPIIb/IIIa complexes on single platelets, whether these phenomena are related remains uncertain.
The p85 subunit of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase associates with the Fc receptor gamma-chain and linker for activitor of T cells (LAT) in platelets stimulated by collagen and convulxin.	There is extensive evidence to show that phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase plays an important role in signaling by the immune family of receptors, which has recently been extended to include the platelet collagen receptor, glycoprotein VI. In this report we present two potential mechanisms for the regulation of this enzyme on stimulation of platelets by collagen. We show that on stimulation with collagen, the regulatory subunit of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase associates with the tyrosine-phosphorylated form of the adapter protein linker for activator of T Cells (LAT) and the tyrosine-phosphorylated immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif of the Fc receptor gamma-chain (a component of the collagen receptor complex that includes glycoprotein VI). The associations of the Fc receptor gamma-chain and LAT with p85 are rapid and supported by the Src-homology 2 domains of the regulatory subunit. We did not obtain evidence to support previous observations that the regulatory subunit of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase is regulated through association with the tyrosine kinase Syk. The present results provide a molecular basis for the regulation of the p85/110 form of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase by GPVI, the collagen receptor that underlies activation.
Plasma levels of 5-HT and 5-HIAA increased after intestinal ischemia/reperfusion in rats.	Intestinal ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) causes serious systemic injury, mainly from a variety of bioactive substances released from the injured intestine. To assess the possible roles of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT), a bioactive amine mainly stored in the intestine, in I/R injury, we assayed the levels of tryptophan, 5-HT, and 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid (5-HIAA) in the blood and intestine in a rat I/R model. Plasma 5-HT increased significantly over time after reperfusion; the plateau level was obtained 4 h after reperfusion and was associated with an increase in 5-HIAA. Plasma tryptophan levels declined gradually after reperfusion. The ratio of 5-HIAA/5-HT was significantly higher in I/R rats than in control rats, suggesting that elevated 5-HT was quickly metabolized in the systemic circulation. In the intestine, 5-HT decreased dramatically, whereas tryptophan increased. This phenomenon was prominent in the severely damaged intestine. These findings suggest that the injured intestine released large amounts of 5-HT, whereas its synthesis in the injured intestine was suppressed. An increase in 5-HT in the circulation may be related to various circulatory disturbances observed in humans after intestinal ischemia.
Concentration-dependent stimulation of intestinal phase III of migrating motor complex by circulating serotonin in humans.	1. The influence of circulating 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) on small intestinal motility was investigated in healthy volunteers. 2. Small intestinal motility was studied by means of a constantly perfused multi-channel manometry tube, connected to a computer system. 3. Intravenous infusions of either 5-hydroxytryptamine at increasing doses or saline were given over a period of 4 h. 4. 5-Hydroxytryptamine infusion dose-dependently increased plasma 5-hydroxytryptamine from approximately 2 to 10 and 25 nmol/l respectively, as well as urinary excretions of 5-hydroxytryptamine and 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid, a major 5-hydroxytryptamine metabolite. 5. The number of phase III of the migrating motor complex originating in the small intestine was dose-dependently increased by 5-hydroxytryptamine, and found to correlate to the plasma concentration of 5-hydroxytryptamine. The fraction of phase III also increased at the expense of phase II activity. In addition, 5-hydroxytryptamine increased the motility index, propagation velocity of phase III activity and the amplitude of contractions during phase III. 6. Whereas the low dose of 5-hydroxytryptamine (15 nmol.min-1.kg-1) had no haemodynamic effects, an increase in heart rate by approximately 20 beats/min, without change in blood pressure, was observed at the higher dose (60 nmol.min-1.kg-1). Respiratory parameters did not change during infusion of 5-hydroxytrytamine at either dose. 7. In conclusion, elevation of circulating 5-hydroxytryptamine by intravenous infusion results in more frequent and faster propagating migrating motor complexes in the human small intestine during the inter-digestive period.
The effect of mineral water on serotonin and insulin production (an experimental study)]	Radioimmunoassay (DRG kits) and orthotoluidine test were conducted to measure blood serotonin, insulin and glucose in 70 intact Wistar rat males before and after a course of drinking mineral water Essentuki 17 (MW). After the MW drinking course, a single dose of mineral water increases basal levels of serotonin and insulin, sensitivity of endocrine cells to MW. Serotonin and insulin rose maximally on minute 5 after the drink while in contrast to minute 15 and 30 before initiation of the MW drinking course. A direct correlation was found between blood concentrations of serotonin and insulin.
Role of neuropeptides and "pain substances" in the formation of humoral mechanisms of experimental and postoperative pain]	Humoral mechanisms of pain caused by different factors vary. The authors compare blood concentrations of "painful substances" in experimental dogs and in patients suffering from postoperative pain relieved by electroacupuncture for assessing the role of these substances: serotonin, histamine, prostaglandin F2 alpha (PGF), and neuropeptides beta-endorphine, methionine- and leucine-enkephalines. Serotonin, histamine, and PGF participated in the nociception process in an equal measure both in dogs and humans. Notable differences were observed for neuropeptides, which can be explained by species-specific differences and by probable contribution of other neuropeptides to mechanisms of experimental and postoperative pain.
