Mutant huntingtin directly increases susceptibility of mitochondria to the calcium-induced permeability transition and cytochrome c release.	Huntington's disease (HD) is initiated by an abnormally expanded polyglutamine stretch in the huntingtin protein, conferring a novel property on the protein that leads to the loss of striatal neurons. Defects in mitochondrial function have been implicated in the pathogenesis of HD. Here, we have examined the hypothesis that the mutant huntingtin protein may directly interact with the mitochondrion and affect its function. In human neuroblastoma cells and clonal striatal cells established from HdhQ7 (wild-type) and HdhQ111 (mutant) homozygote mouse knock-in embryos, huntingtin was present in a purified mitochondrial fraction. Subfractionation of the mitochondria and limited trypsin digestion of the organelle demonstrated that huntingtin was associated with the outer mitochondrial membrane. We further demonstrated that a recombinant truncated mutant huntingtin protein, but not a wild-type, directly induced mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT) pore opening in isolated mouse liver mitochondria, an effect that was prevented completely by cyclosporin A (CSA) and ATP. Importantly, the mutant huntingtin protein significantly decreased the Ca2+ threshold necessary to trigger MPT pore opening. We found a similar increased susceptibility to the calcium-induced MPT in liver mitochondria isolated from a knock-in HD mouse model. The mutant huntingtin protein-induced MPT pore opening was accompanied by a significant release of cytochrome c, an effect completely inhibited by CSA. These findings suggest that the development of specific MPT inhibitors may be an interesting therapeutic avenue to delay the onset of HD.
5-HT2A/2C receptor signaling via phospholipase A2 and arachidonic acid is attenuated in mice lacking the serotonin reuptake transporter.	The serotonin reuptake transporter (SERT) helps to regulate brain serotonergic transmission and is the target of some antidepressants. To further understand SERT function, we measured a marker of regional brain phospholipase A2 (PLA2) activation in SERT knockout mice (SERT-/-) and their littermate controls (SERT+/+).
Differentiation of obsessive-compulsive-, panic-, obsessive-compulsive personality-, and non-disordered individuals by variation in the promoter region of the serotonin transporter gene.	Past research investigating the role of the serotonin transporter gene in OCD has produced mixed findings. One possible reason for the mixed findings is comorbidity. In this study, non-comorbid OCD individuals were compared to non-disordered controls. A sample of panic disordered individuals was also compared to a non-disordered group. Finally, as an exploratory analysis, individuals were assessed for OCPD and their allelic frequencies were also compared to non-disordered individuals. Analyses revealed that there were higher frequencies of the s/s genotype among the OCD group when compared to non-disordered controls. There were no differences in allelic frequencies on the serotonin transporter gene between the panic disordered group, the OCPD group, and the non-disordered control group. This study found that non-comorbid OCD individuals tended to have a higher percentage of the homozygous short genotype than non-disordered individuals. The s/s genotype might serve as a contributory risk factor for OCD.
Gene expression profiling of lymphoblastoid cell lines from monozygotic twins discordant in severity of autism reveals differential regulation of neurologically relevant genes.	The autism spectrum encompasses a set of complex multigenic developmental disorders that severely impact the development of language, non-verbal communication, and social skills, and are associated with odd, stereotyped, repetitive behavior and restricted interests. To date, diagnosis of these neurologically based disorders relies predominantly upon behavioral observations often prompted by delayed speech or aberrant behavior, and there are no known genes that can serve as definitive biomarkers for the disorders.
Serotonergic dysfunction: brain imaging and behavioral correlates.	Identification of gene-environment and gene-gene interactions has become increasingly important in understanding psychiatric disorders. Dysfunction of central serotonergic neurotransmission has been implicated in alcoholism, depression, and anxiety. We review the literature on nonhuman primates that assesses the interaction between the genetic constitution of the regulatory region ofthe serotonin transporter (5-HTT) and environmental factors. Prospective studies in nonhuman primates that underwent social stress found a reduction of theserotonin turnover rate among carriers of one or two short alleles in a functional polymorphism of the 5-HTT promoter. In these primates, brain imaging studies showed a relative increase in the availability of raphe serotonin transporters. A low serotonin turnover rate and a high availability of serotonin transporters were associated with reduced response to excessive alcohol intake, anxiety, and impulsive aggression. Animal experiments point to a relationship between serotonergic dysfunction, negative mood states, and excessive alcohol intake, which may in part be mediated by reduced alcohol-induced sedation.
The serotonin pathway in pulmonary hypertension.	The nature of the primary defect responsible for triggering and maintaining pulmonary artery smooth muscle (PA-SMC) proliferation in pulmonary artery hypertension (PH) is poorly understood but may be either an inherent characteristic of PA-SMCs or a secondary response to an external abnormality, such as up-regulation of growth factors. In previous studies, we found that cultured PA-SMCs from patients with idiopathic PH (iPH) had an abnormally strong proliferative response to serotonin or serum (which contains high levels of serotonin). This abnormal response is due to overexpression of the serotonin transporter (5-HTT) which mediates the mitogenic action of serotonin. That 5-HTT plays a key role in pulmonary vascular remodeling is supported by experimental studies showing that transgenic animals overexpressing 5-HTT in smooth muscle (at a level close to that seen in PH) spontaneously develop pulmonary vascular remodeling and PH. Conversely, mice with targeted S-HTT gene disruption are protected against hypoxic PH, and selective 5-HTT inhibitors reverse or prevent experimental PH. In patients with chronic lung disease, a close association has been found between a 5-HTT gene polymorphism and the severity of pulmonary hypertension. Agents capable of selectively inhibiting 5-HTT-mediated PA-SMC proliferation deserve to be investigated as potential treatments for pulmonary hypertension.
Serotonin transporter gene polymorphism in slow transit constipation]	To investigate the association between the polymorphism of serotonin transporter gene-linked polymorphic region(5-HTTLPR) and slow transit constipation(STC).
Characteristics of thiamine uptake by the BeWo human trophoblast cell line.	Little is known concerning the mechanisms responsible for the transplacental transfer of thiamine. So, the aim of this work was to characterize the placental uptake of thiamine from the maternal circulation, by determining the characteristics of 3H-thiamine uptake by a human trophoblast cell line (BeWo). Uptake of (3)H-thiamine (50-100 nM) by BeWo cells was: 1) temperature-dependent and energy-independent; 2) pH-dependent (uptake increased as the extracellular medium pH decreased); 3) Na(+)-dependent and Cl(-)-independent; 4) not inhibited by the thiamine structural analogs amprolium, oxythiamine and thiamine pyrophosphate; 5) inhibited by the unrelated organic cations guanidine, N-methylnicotinamide, tetraethylammonium, clonidine and cimetidine; 6) inhibited by the organic cation serotonin, and by two selective inhibitors of the serotonin plasmalemmal transporter (hSERT), fluoxetine and desipramine. We conclude that (3)H-thiamine uptake by BeWo cells seems to occur through a process distinct from thiamine transporter-1 (hThTr-1) and thiamine transporter-2 (hThTr-2). Rather, it seems to involve hSERT. Moreover, chronic (48 h) exposure of cells to caffeine (1 microM) stimulated and chronic exposure to xanthohumol and iso-xanthohumol (1 and 0.1 microM, respectively) inhibited (3)H-thiamine uptake, these effects being not mediated through modulation of the expression levels of either hThTr-1 or hSERT mRNA.
The impact of tryptophan depletion and 5-HTTLPR genotype on passive avoidance and response reversal instrumental learning tasks.	Transient reductions in serotonin levels during tryptophan depletion (TD) are thought to impair reward processing in healthy volunteers, while another facet of the serotonergic system, the serotonin transporter (5-HTTLPR) short allele polymorphism, is implicated in augmented processing of aversive stimuli. We examined the impact and interactions of TD and the serotonin promoter polymorphism genotype on reward and punishment via two forms of instrumental learning: passive avoidance and response reversal. In this study, healthy volunteers (n=35) underwent rapid TD or control procedures and genotyping (n=26) of the 5-HTTLPR for long and short allele variants. In the passive avoidance task, tryptophan-depleted volunteers failed to respond sufficiently to rewarded stimuli compared to the control group. Additionally, long allele homozygous individuals (n=11) were slower to learn to avoid punished stimuli compared to short allele carriers (n=15). TD alone did not produce measurable deficits in probabilistic response reversal errors. However, a significant drug group by genotype interaction was found indicating that in comparison to short allele carriers, tryptophan-depleted individuals homozygous for the long allele failed to appropriately use punishment information to guide responding. These findings extend prior reports of impaired reward processing in TD to include instrumental learning. Furthermore, they demonstrate behavioral differences in responses to punishing stimuli between long allele homozygotes and short allele carriers when serotonin levels are acutely reduced.
Altered neocortical cell density and layer thickness in serotonin transporter knockout mice: a quantitation study.	The neurotransmitter serotonin (5-HT) plays morphogenetic roles during development, and their alteration could contribute to autism pathogenesis in humans. To further characterize 5-HT's contributions to neocortical development, we assessed the thickness and neuronal cell density of various cerebral cortical areas in serotonin transporter (5-HTT) knockout (ko) mice, characterized by elevated extracellular 5-HT levels. The thickness of layer IV is decreased in 5-HTT ko mice compared with wild-type (wt) mice. The overall effect on cortical thickness, however, depends on the genetic background of the mice. Overall cortical thickness is decreased in many cortical areas of 5-HTT ko mice with a mixed c129-CD1-C57BL/6J background. Instead, 5-HTT ko mice backcrossed into the C57BL/6J background display increases in supragranular and infragranular layers, which compensate entirely for decreased layer IV thickness, resulting in unchanged or even enhanced cortical thickness. Moreover, significant increases in neuronal cell density are found in 5-HTT ko mice with a C57BL/6J background (wt:hz:ko ratio = 1.00:1.04:1.17) but not in the mixed c129-CD1-C57BL/6J 5-HTT ko animals. These results provide evidence of 5-HTT gene effects on neocortical morphology in epistatic interaction with genetic variants at other loci and may model the effect of functional 5-HTT gene variants on neocortical development in autism.
Serotonin genes and attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder in a Brazilian sample: preferential transmission of the HTR2A 452His allele to affected boys.	Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is one of the most common psychiatric disorders of childhood. The role of genetic factors in its etiology is strongly supported by family, adoption, and twin studies. Low serotonin activity has been associated in both animal and human studies with measures of impulsivity, aggression, and disinhibited behaviors, which make genes from the serotonin system reasonable candidates for ADHD susceptibility. In the present study, we investigated a polymorphism in the promoter region of the serotonin transporter (SLC6A4) and two polymorphisms (-1438 A > G and His452Tyr) in the serotonin 5-HTR2A receptor gene using family based association analyses in a sample of 243 Brazilian ADHD children and adolescents and their parents. No linkage disequilibrium between the two HTR2A polymorphisms was detected in this sample (P = 0.76). Considering several evidences from animal models for sexual dimorphism in serotonin genes expression, analyses were performed separately for the whole sample and for male probands. No evidences for biased transmissions of both HTR2A -1438 A > G and SLC6A4 polymorphisms to ADHD youths were observed. Preferential transmission of the HTR2A His452 allele was observed only in families with affected boys (P = 0.04). Our results suggest that findings from ADHD association studies for serotonin genes might be understood in the context of a gender effect, which may help to explain conflicting results in these association studies.
Serotonin transporter mRNA levels are associated with the methylation of an upstream CpG island.	The serotonin reuptake transporter (5HTT) is thought to be the principal regulator of serotonergic activity and epigenetic effects at this locus are thought to be important moderators of vulnerability to neuropsychiatric illness. In attempt to understand the basis of this regulation, several gene polymorphisms that affect 5HTT mRNA levels have been described. But to date, no clear mechanism linking these polymorphisms to vulnerability to epigenetic effects have been described. In this communication, we describe a CpG island in the 5' region of the 5HTT gene that contains an alternative exon 1 and possible promoter for 5HTT. We then confirm the existence of this transcript and ascertain the methylation status of this CpG island in 49 lymphoblast cell lines and analyze the relationship between methylation and 5HTT mRNA levels. We demonstrate that methylation at this CpG island is associated with decreased levels of 5HTT mRNA, but that this effect is evident only when 5HTTLPR genotype is taken into account. We suggest that these findings have significant implications for the understanding of the role of this locus in behavioral illness.
Meta-analysis supports association between serotonin transporter (5-HTT) and suicidal behavior.	Suicidal behavior, which ranks among the top 10 causes of death worldwide, is an important public-health problem and a psychiatric disorder, which has been the subject of considerable study. Studies have shown association between the serotonin transporter (5-HTT) gene and suicidal behavior, although a proportion of alternative studies have produced contrary results both in terms of positive and negative findings, possibly reflecting inadequate statistical power and the use of different populations. Using the cumulative data from recent years in both European and, more particularly, Asian populations, this updated meta-analysis seeks to examine whether the aggregate data provide evidence of statistical significance, and to clarify the contradictory findings suggested by previous studies. It covers all published studies using multiple research methods up to January 2006. Compared with a previous meta-analysis, which found no association between the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism and suicidal behavior (P=0.38), the current results (39 studies) suggest a significant association with a P-value of 0.0068 (overall odds ratio=0.88 (0.8,0.97)), and supports the involvement of the brain 5-HTT in the pathogenesis of suicidal behavior.
Perceived parenting behavior in the childhood of cocaine users: relationship with genotype and personality traits.	Low parental care during childhood, a pattern characteristic of an "affectionless control" rearing style was frequently reported in the history of addicted individuals. Parents' childrearing regimes and children's genetic predispositions, with their own behavioral characteristics, have been seen to be closely interwoven, probably affecting children's development and addictive behavior susceptibility. In the present study, parents care perception, aggressive personality traits, and genotype (serotonin transporter promoter gene--5-HTTLPR) have been investigated in cocaine users and healthy control subjects. PBI scores (maternal and paternal care) were lower and BDHI scores (aggressiveness) higher in cocaine users in comparison with controls and significant differences in the perception of either paternal or maternal care were observed between cocaine users and non-users. The short-short (SS) genotype frequency was significantly higher among cocaine users compared with control subjects (P = 0.04). Logistic regression proves that persons bearing the SS genotype have a risk of becoming cocaine user almost three times higher than those having the LL genotype. Estimations of the effects of other factors potentially affecting the risk of being cocaine addicted clearly prove the significant impact of aggressiveness: the highest the score, the highest the risk of becoming cocaine user. Moreover, paternal and maternal care perception significantly improve the fit of the model (the log likelihood decreases passing from -105.9 to -89.8, LR test = 32.17, P-value = 0.0000). Each unit increase in the PBI score yields a significant 12% and 10% decrease of the risk of becoming cocaine user, respectively for paternal and maternal care. Interestingly, once controlled for the PBI score, the relative risk associated to the SS genotype drops strikingly and becomes no longer statistically significant. On the whole, our preliminary data suggest that the association between 5-HT transporter polymorphism and psycho-stimulant use may be mediated by mother-child relationship and parental attachment perception, both being environmental and genetic factors involved in the proneness to substance use disorders, particularly in aggressive-antisocial individuals.
Association of the serotonin transporter promotor polymorphism with suicide attempters with a high medical damage.	Serotonergic neurotransmission has been implicated in suicidal behavior, including inconsistent results concerning the serotonin transporter promoter polymorphism (5-HTTLPR). Here, we analyzed the 5-HTTLPR in suicide attempters (n=85). Comparing the presence of SS with SL+LL genotypes showed a significantly higher prevalence of the SS genotype in suicide attempters with high medical damage scores (chi2=9.054, df=1, p=0.0026). The results suggest that the S-allele may predispose for suicidal behavior characterized by high determination.
Family-based association study of serotonergic candidate genes and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder in a German sample.	Alterations in the serotonergic pathway have been implicated in the pathogenesis of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). The aim of this study was to investigate seven genetic variants in three genes (serotonin transporter (5-HTT), serotonin receptor 1B (5-HTR1B) and serotonin receptor 2A (5-HTR2A)), which have previously been shown to be associated with ADHD. The polymorphisms under investigation were the 5-HTTLPR, the VNTR in intron 2 and the 3'UTR SNP in 5-HTT, the 5-HTR1B variations 861G>C and 102T>C, and the 5-HTR2A variations His452Tyr and 1438G>A. We genotyped these variants in a sample of 102 families with 229 children with ADHD according to DSM-IV criteria. Among the affected children, 69% fulfilled criteria for the combined type, 27% for the predominantly inattentive type, and 4% for the predominantly hyperactive-impulsive type. Associations were tested by the pedigree transmission disequilibrium test (PDT). All investigated polymorphisms in serotonergic candidate genes showed no association to ADHD in our sample. Earlier studies of these polymorphisms had also shown inconsistent results, with some studies reporting significant associations and others demonstrating no association. This discordance between studies may reflect variation in patient ascertainment criteria, genetic heterogeneity, too low statistical power for the expected effects or false positive results in the initial reports. We cannot rule out the possibility that other variations in the investigated genes contribute to the etiology of ADHD.
Genes encoding for AP-2beta and the Serotonin Transporter are associated with the Personality Character Spiritual Acceptance.	In several twin studies the relative contribution of genetic factors for personality traits has amounted to figures between 40 and 60%. In the present study we investigated to which degree polymorphisms in the 5-HTT and AP-2beta genes are implicated in the neural processes involved in the formation of Temperament and Character traits, as estimated by Cloninger's TCI. Considering the background of previous reports, associations with the character Self-Transcendence and its sub-scale Spiritual Acceptance in particular, were of interest. A stratified random sample of 200 individuals (total population=5173), matched for age, gender and risk behaviors, from volunteering 16- and 19-year-old adolescents students in Sweden was investigated. Cloninger's TCI inventory was used for investigation of temperament and character traits. Blood samples were used for analyses of a promoter serotonin transporter polymorphism (5-HTTLPR) and an intron 2 polymorphism in the transcription factor AP-2beta gene. Among boys individuals with presence of the short 5-HTTLPR genotype showed lower scores, whereas individuals with presence of the short AP-2beta genotype showed higher scores of personality character Self-Transcendence and its sub-scale Spiritual Acceptance. Among girls no effect of either genotype was found. Both among boys and girls, significant interactive effects were found between 5-HTTLPR and AP-2beta genotypes, with regard to Self-Transcendence and Spiritual acceptance. Boys and girls with the combination of presence of the short 5-HTTLPR, and homozygosity for the long AP-2beta genotype scored significantly lower on Self-Transcendence and Spiritual Acceptance.
LEPR, ADBR3, IRS-1 and 5-HTT genes polymorphisms do not associate with obesity.	Obesity is a growing problem and is associated with numerous medical conditions. In several genes coding for molecules involved in the regulation of body weight (fat mass) and thermogenesis, polymorphisms have been reported which possibly modify human obesity risk. The aim of this study was to determine the incidence of the following polymorphisms in the following genes in 262 obese (BMI > or = 30) and 138 control (BMI < or = 25) subjects: leptin receptor (LEPR)-Gln223Arg, B3-adrenergic receptor (B3-AR)-Trp64Arg, serotonin transporter (5-HTT)--a 44-base pair insertion/deletion functional polymorphism in the 5-HTTLPR and insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1)-Gly972Arg. Our hypothesis was that these polymorphisms would occur more frequently in the obese population. The polymorphisms were determined by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and restriction genotyping in study population. In our results, no strong associations were observed between BMI status and these polymorphisms. Weak, though significant, association coefficients obtained with HTT and LEPR loci indicate that the genotype numbers at these loci may depend on BMI status to some extent.
Association analyses of the serotonin transporter gene with lifetime depression and alcohol dependence in the Collaborative Study on the Genetics of Alcoholism (COGA) sample.	The objective of this study was to analyze association of the serotonin transporter gene 5-HTTLPR polymorphism on lifetime depression and alcohol dependence in the Collaborative Study on the Genetics of Alcoholism sample. We conducted family-based association analyses in 1913 Caucasians genotyped for the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism. We found evidence for association of the short allele with depression, but no evidence of association with alcohol dependence. On the basis of the evidence that the effect of this polymorphism may be moderated by stressful life events, we classified individuals for the presence and/or absence of stress, as defined by unemployment, relationship problems, or poor health. The evidence for the association with lifetime depression was limited to the group of individuals who had experienced stress, paralleling the direction of effects originally reported by Caspi and colleagues. No evidence was found for the association with alcohol dependence in either the stress or the no-stress groups.
Evidence for epistasis between SLC6A4 and ITGB3 in autism etiology and in the determination of platelet serotonin levels.	Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder of unclear etiology. The consistent finding of platelet hyperserotonemia in a proportion of patients and its heritability within affected families suggest that genes involved in the serotonin system play a role in this disorder. The role in autism etiology of seven candidate genes in the serotonin metabolic and neurotransmission pathways and mapping to autism linkage regions (SLC6A4, HTR1A, HTR1D, HTR2A, HTR5A, TPH1 and ITGB3) was analyzed in a sample of 186 nuclear families. The impact of interactions among these genes in autism was assessed using the multifactor-dimensionality reduction (MDR) method in 186 patients and 181 controls. We further evaluated whether the effect of specific gene variants or gene interactions associated with autism etiology might be mediated by their influence on serotonin levels, using the quantitative transmission disequilibrium test (QTDT) and the restricted partition method (RPM), in a sample of 109 autistic children. We report a significant main effect of the HTR5A gene in autism (P = 0.0088), and a significant three-locus model comprising a synergistic interaction between the ITGB3 and SLC6A4 genes with an additive effect of HTR5A (P < 0.0010). In addition to the previously reported contribution of SLC6A4, we found significant associations of ITGB3 haplotypes with serotonin level distribution (P = 0.0163). The most significant models contributing to serotonin distribution were found for interactions between TPH1 rs4537731 and SLC6A4 haplotypes (P = 0.002) and between HTR1D rs6300 and SLC6A4 haplotypes (P = 0.013). In addition to the significant independent effects, evidence for interaction between SLC6A4 and ITGB3 markers was also found. The overall results implicate SLC6A4 and ITGB3 gene interactions in autism etiology and in serotonin level determination, providing evidence for a common underlying genetic mechanism and a molecular explanation for the association of platelet hyperserotonemia with autism.
Family based association analyses between the serotonin transporter gene polymorphism (5-HTTLPR) and neuroticism, anxiety and depression.	We studied the association between the short/long promotor-based length polymorphism of the serotonin transporter gene (5-HTTLPR) and neuroticism, anxiety and depression. Subjects included twins, their siblings and parents from the Netherlands Twin Register (559 parents and 1,245 offspring). Subjects had participated between one and five times in a survey study measuring neuroticism, anxiety and depression. Offspring of these families were also approached to participate in a psychiatric interview diagnosing DSM-IV major depression. Within-family and total association between 5-HTTLPR and these traits were tested. Only three of the 36 tests showed a significant effect of 5-HTTLPR (P<0.05). These effects were in opposite directions, i.e. both negative and positive regression coefficients were found for the s allele. No additive effect of the s allele was found for DSM-IV depression. Our results strongly suggest that there is no straightforward association between 5-HTTLPR and neuroticism, anxiety and depression.
Midbrain serotonin transporter binding potential measured with [11C]DASB is affected by serotonin transporter genotype.	Homozygote carriers of two long (L) alleles of the serotonin transporter (5-HTT) regulatory region displayed in vitro a twofold increase in 5-HTT expression compared with carriers of one or two short (S) alleles. However, in vivo imaging studies yielded contradictory results. Recently, an A > G exchange leading to differential transcriptional activation of 5-HTT mRNA in lymphobalstoid cell lines was discovered in the 5-HTT regulatory region. In vitro and in vivo evidence suggests that [(11)C]DASB, a new 5-HTT ligand offers some advantages over the ligands used in previous studies in measuring 5-HTT density independent of synaptic levels of serotonin.
Effect of long-term fluoxetine treatment on the human serotonin transporter in Caco-2 cells.	Fluoxetine is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) broadly used in the treatment of human mood disorders and gastrointestinal diseases involving the serotoninergic system. The effectiveness of this therapy depends on repeated long-term treatment. Most of the long-term studies in vivo of SSRI effects on serotoninergic activity have focused on their effects on autoreceptors or postsynaptic receptors. The chronic effect of SSRIs on the activity of the serotonin transporter (SERT) has been less studied and the results have been contradictory. The aim of this study was to determine the specific effect of long-term fluoxetine treatment on human serotonin transporter (hSERT) in vitro, by using the human enterocyte-like cell line Caco-2. Results show that fluoxetine diminished the 5-HT uptake in a concentration-dependent way and that this effect was reversible. Fluoxetine affected mainly the hSERT transport rate by reducing the availability of the transporter in the membrane with no significant alteration of either the total hSERT protein content or the hSERT mRNA level. These results suggest that the effect of fluoxetine on the expression of hSERT is post-translational and has shown itself to be independent of PKC and PKA activity. This study may be useful to clarify the effect of the long-term fluoxetine therapy in both gastrointestinal and central nervous system disorders.
Depressive behaviors and decreased expression of serotonin reuptake transporter in rats that experienced neonatal maternal separation.	This study was conducted to examine the pathophysiologic mechanisms of long-term adverse effects by neonatal maternal separation on neurobehaviors of the offspring. Sprague-Dawley pups were separated from dam daily for 180min during the first 2 weeks of life (MS) or undisturbed (NH), and subjected to behavioral sessions for ambulatory activity, forced swim, and elevated plus maze tests at 2 months of age. Serotonin reuptake transporter (5-HTT) mRNA levels in the raphe nucleus and the contents of serotonin (5-HT) and its metabolite 5-hydroxyindol acetic acid in the raphe and the hippocampus were examined as well. Ambulatory counts decreased and immobility duration in swim test increased in MS rats compared with NH rats. MS rats spent more time in the closed arms, less time in the open arms, of elevated plus maze, compared to NH rats. The hippocampal contents of 5-HT and the raphe expression of 5-HTT mRNA were decreased in MS rats compared with NH rats. These results suggest that neonatal maternal separation may result in the development of depression- and/or anxiety-like behaviors in later life, in which the long-term alterations in 5-HTergic neurotransmission may take a role.
FLUOXETINE modifies the expression of serotonergic markers in a differentiation-dependent fashion in the mesencephalic neural cell line A1 mes c-myc.	Serotonin (5-HT) is a neurotransmitter involved in a variety of CNS functions during development and in adulthood. 5-HT neurons are also involved in the pathogenesis of a number of psychiatric disorders. FLUOXETINE (FLX), a prototypic antidepressant, is a selective 5-HT uptake inhibitor (SSRI) with a demonstrated clinical efficacy in these disorders. SSRI, in a short-term period, binds 5-HT transporter (SERT) raising 5-HT levels at the synapse. Nevertheless, clinical improvement is observed only after 3-4 weeks of treatment. Recently, it has been shown that antidepressants, besides interfering with neurotransmission, can also display an effect on neural cells' proliferation and differentiation. Therefore it has been proposed that antidepressant may exert their clinical effects also acting on cellular functions other then neurotransmission. Here we show that a mesencephalic neural cell line, mes-c-myc A1 (A1) produces 5-HT and expresses SERT and both peripheral (TPH1) and CNS-specific (TPH2) form of tryptophan hydroxylase, the limiting enzyme in 5-HT biosynthesis. Cyclic AMP-dependent neuronal differentiation of A1 cells modulates the expression of TPHs. FLX, as well as citalopram (CIT), another SSRI inhibitor, modulates expression of serotonergic markers depending on the differentiation status of the cells. Interestingly, long-term but not short-term FLX treatment selectively modulates mRNA levels of TPH2, only in differentiated A1 cells. Finally, FLX and citalopram selectively decrease the proliferation rate of undifferentiated A1 cells, whereas have no effects on NIH-3T3 fibroblasts proliferation. In conclusion, neuronal differentiation of A1 cells not only modulates the expression of serotonergic markers, but appears to affect the response to FLX.
At diabetes-like concentration, glucose down-regulates the placental serotonin transport system in a cell-cycle-dependent manner.	Serotonin [5-hydroxytryptamine (5HT)] is a vasoconstrictor that also acts as a developmental signal early in embryogenesis. The 5HT transporter (SERT) on the membranes of the placental trophoblast cells controls 5HT levels in the maternal bloodstream to maintain stable transplacental blood flow and simultaneously provide 5HT to the embryo. The 5HT uptake rate of placental SERT is important for both the mother and the developing embryo. The impact of glucose on the placental SERT system during diabetic pregnancy is not known. The present in vitro study investigated this important issue in human placental choriocarcinoma (JAR) cells that were cultured for 24-96 h in a medium containing either 5.5 (physiologic concentration) or 25 mmol/L D-glucose (diabetic-like concentration). The 5HT uptake rates of the cultured cells were not altered at exogenous D-glucose concentrations in the range of 5.5-15 mmol/L, but were decreased significantly at a diabetic-like concentration (>or=25 mmol/L). To understand better the role of glucose on the placental 5HT system, we first characterized SERT in JAR cells at different cell-cycle phases and then determined the expression levels of SERT on the plasma membrane and in the intracellular pools of JAR cells at the late-S and G2 phases, where the uptake rates were decreased 73% under diabetic-like glucose concentrations. Finally, the importance of self-association of SERT molecules was examined. In JAR cells co-expressing Flag- and myc-tagged SERT, myc-antibody precipitated 70% of Flag-SERT, indicating that a large percentage of SERT proteins exist as oligomers in situ. Under diabetic conditions, myc-antibody no longer precipitated Flag-SERT, suggesting a disruption in the aggregation of SERT molecules. Therefore, we propose that under uncontrolled diabetic conditions, glucose down-regulates 5HT uptake rates of placental SERT by interfering with its functional expression in a cell-cycle-dependent manner.
Single dose of MDMA causes extensive decrement of serotoninergic fibre density without blockage of the fast axonal transport in Dark Agouti rat brain and spinal cord.	Prolonged neurotoxicity of the recreational drug, MDMA (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine) on serotoninergic axon terminals has been suggested. The effect of a single (15 mg/kg) dose of intraperitoneally administered MDMA on serotoninergic fibre density, defined by tryptophan hydroxylase (TpH) and serotonin transporter (5-HTT) immunoreactivity, has been evaluated in the spinal cord and brain areas in Dark Agouti rats, 7 and 180 days after MDMA applications. Immunostaining for amyloid precursor protein (APP) has been performed to examine possible defects of the fast axonal transport, and 5-HTT mRNA expressions were quantified in neurones of medullary raphe nuclei. Seven days after MDMA treatment, a substantial decrease in the density of TpH-immunoreactive fibres was detectable in the frontal cortex, the caudate-putamen, the CA1 region of the hippocampus, and marked decreases were found in the spinal cord. These changes in TpH density showed a high correlation with 5-HTT densities. In contrast, APP-immunoreactive axonal bulbs were not detected in any of the brain regions studied. Seven days after MDMA administrations, significantly elevated 5-HTT mRNA expressions were found in the raphe pallidus and obscurus. Our results suggest that a single dose of MDMA elicits widespread depletion of TpH and 5-HTT immunoreactivity in serotoninergic axons without morphological sign of the blockage of the fast anterograde axonal transport. Our results do not support the notion of MDMA-induced axotomy of serotoninergic neurones. The up-regulation of 5-HTT mRNA expressions 1 week after MDMA injections might indicate the potential recovery of the serotonin system.
The serotonin transporter 5-HTTLPR polymorphism and treatment response to nicotine patch: follow-up of a randomized controlled trial.	In this follow-up of a randomized placebo-controlled clinical trial of nicotine replacement transdermal patch for smoking cessation, 741 smokers of European ancestry who were randomized to receive active patch or placebo patch were genotyped for the serotonin transporter gene-linked polymorphic region. The study setting was a primary care research network in Oxfordshire, United Kingdom. The primary outcome measures were biochemically verified sustained abstinence from cigarette smoking at end of treatment and 24-week follow-up. The main effect of genotype was not associated with sustained abstinence from smoking at either end of treatment (SL: p=.33; SS: p=.81) or 24-week follow-up (SL: p=.05; SS: p=.21), and we found no evidence for a genotypextreatment interaction effect. In summary, despite the theoretically important contribution of serotonin neurotransmission to smoking cessation, the serotonin transporter gene was not associated with treatment response to nicotine patch for smoking cessation in this primary care-based trial.
Chronic food restriction in young rats results in depression- and anxiety-like behaviors with decreased expression of serotonin reuptake transporter.	Evidence of semi-starvation is commonly found in patients with eating disorders. This study was conducted to examine the adverse effects of chronic caloric restriction in young rats, since there have been increasing incidence of eating disorders especially among young populations. Food restriction group was supplied daily with 50% of chow consumed by its ad libitum fed control group from postnatal day 28. After 5 weeks of food restriction, brain contents of serotonin (5-hydroxy-tryptamine; 5-HT) and its metabolite 5-hydroxyindol acetic acid were analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography and mRNA expression of 5-HT reuptake transporter (5-HTT) by in situ hybridization. Plasma corticosterone levels were determined by radioimmunoassay. Behavioral assessments were performed with Porsolt swim test for depressive behavior and with elevated plus maze test for anxiety. Five weeks of food restriction markedly increased plasma level of corticosterone, and significantly decreased 5-HT turnover rates in the hippocampus and the hypothalamus. 5-HTT mRNA expression decreased in the raphe nucleus of food restricted rats compared with free fed controls. Immobility time during the swim test increased in the food restricted group, compared to the control group. Food restricted rats spent more time in the closed arms, less time in the open arms, of elevated plus maze compared with control rats. These results suggest that chronic caloric restriction in young rats may lead to the development of depressive and/or anxiety disorders, likely, in relation with dysfunction of brain 5-HT system.
Serotonin-1A receptor gene HTR1A variation predicts interferon-induced depression in chronic hepatitis C.	Interferon-induced depression is a major complication in antiviral therapy of chronic hepatitis C. Little is known about underlying mechanisms and reliable predictive factors associated with cytokine-induced depressive symptoms.
Convergent genetic modulation of the endocrine stress response involves polymorphic variations of 5-HTT, COMT and MAOA.	Highly prevalent stress-related disorders such as major depression (MD) are characterised by a dysregulation of the neuroendocrine system. Although heritability for these disorders is high, the role of genes in the underlying pathophysiology is poorly understood. Here, we show that polymorphic variations in genes coding for serotonin transporter (5-HTT), catechol-O-methyl transferase (COMT) and monoamine oxidase A (MAOA) as well as sex differences influence the regulation of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA)-axis response to acute psychological and endocrine challenges. In our sample, the effects of COMT on the release of adrenocorticotrophin hormone (ACTH) depend on the presence of the low-expression MAOA variant in the same individual. By including individuals varying in their degree of susceptibility to MD, we showed evidence of interactions between 5-HTT and MD susceptibility in baseline cortisol, and between MAOA and MD susceptibility in baseline ACTH measures, indicating a role for these genotypes in stable-state endocrine regulation. Collectively, these results indicate that the simultaneous investigation of multiple monoaminergic genes in interaction with gender have to be measured to understand the endocrine regulation of stress. These findings point towards a genetic susceptibility to stress-related disorders.
The influence of genetic variations on the effect of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors]	The outcome of psychopharmacological treatment may depend on genetic polymorphisms of various neurotransmitter systems. We summarize studies of associations between genetic variations with relation to the serotonin system and response to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. The results are still preliminary but suggest that treatment response to antidepressant drugs is influenced by genetic factors. They also indicate that the genetic component is polygenic and highly complex and might manifest itself in interaction with other biological and environmental factors.
The association between serotonin-related gene polymorphisms and panic disorder.	Dysfunction of the serotonergic system has been hypothesized to play an important role in panic disorder. We investigated the 5-HT2A receptor (5HTR2A) and tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) genes for an association with panic disorder (PD). Patients with PD (n=107) and control subjects (n=161) were genotyped for 5HTR2A 1438A/G, 5HTR2A 102T/C, and TPH218 A/C. The severity of their symptoms was measured using the Spielberger State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI), Panic Disorder Severity Scale (PDSS), Anxiety Sensitivity Index (ASI), Acute Panic Inventory (API), and Hamilton's Rating Scale for Depression (HAMD). There were no significant differences in the genotype distributions or allelic frequencies in the three serotonergic polymorphisms between PD patients and normal controls. However, we found a significant difference in symptom severity among the genotypes of both the 5HTR2A 1438A/G and 102T/C polymorphisms. Although there were no significant differences in the genotype and allele distributions, we found a significant association between panic symptom severity and the serotonin 2A receptor gene. This result suggests that 5HTR2A 1438A/G and 102T/C polymorphic regions can be associated with the phenotype or the pathogenesis of panic disorder.
Depression and the serotonin transporter 5-HTTLPR polymorphism: a review and a hypothesis concerning gene-environment interaction.	Studies of the interaction of the serotonin transporter genotype and environment upon adult depression (G x E) have suggested a role for both childhood maltreatment and stressful life events. This paper deals with two main issues. First, do both contribute? Evidence that G x E with childhood maltreatment plays a role is much stronger than that for G x E with life events occurring close to onset, although that for G x E with life events occurring over a 5-year period before the presence of the recorded depression is stronger. However, non-genetic research shows that life events occurring so long before onset as 5 years have little or no relationship with adult depression once childhood maltreatment is taken into account, suggesting they serve as a marker for childhood maltreatment rather than making a direct contribution to G x E. Second, genetic research has dealt only with the presence of depression and taking account of course may radically change ideas about the point at which G x E occurs. Two findings from non-genetic research concerning childhood maltreatment are relevant. Childhood maltreatment is associated with a particularly high risk of an adult onset of depression taking a chronic course (i.e. lasting 12 months or more). Moreover such maltreatment makes a substantial direct contribution - i.e. its link with course is independent of all other childhood and adult risk factors. This is consistent with early changes in brain function associated with the polymorphism in the context of childhood maltreatment explaining the link of such maltreatment with adult chronic episodes. It also follows that restricting analysis to such episodes would increase current estimates of G x E.
Decision-making impairment is related to serotonin transporter promoter polymorphism in a sample of patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder.	Decision-making impairment is an important feature of some psychiatric disorders, such as attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder and substance-use disorders, and is associated with dysfunction of the fronto-subcortical circuit, mainly the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC). Several data reports support significant correlations between decision-making impairment and the serotonin system. Thus, this neurotransmission system may be a major step in some cognitive features, particularly in OCD because serotonin is associated with this disorder. Therefore, the serotonin transporter promoter polymorphism (5-HTTLPR) may be related to the modulation of these cognitive characteristics. In a sample of Caucasian OCD patients, we explored the link between decision-making and the 5-HTTLPR.
Neuroimaging genetics: new perspectives in research on major depression?	Stress-related changes in the hippocampus are influenced by genetic factors. To enhance our understanding of both the interaction between the brain, behaviour and genetics and of biological mechanisms in mood disorders neuroimaging genetics provide a good opportunity.
Psychosocial stress and psychosis. A review of the neurobiological mechanisms and the evidence for gene-stress interaction.	This article presents evidence suggesting that psychosocial stress may increase risk for psychosis, especially in the case of cumulative exposure. A heuristically useful framework to study the underlying mechanisms is the concept of "behavioral sensitization" that stipulates that exposure to psychosocial stress--such as life events, childhood trauma, or discriminatory experiences--may progressively increase the behavioral and biological response to subsequent exposures. The neurobiological substrate of sensitization may involve dysregulation of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis, contributing to a hypothesized final common pathway of dopamine sensitization in mesolimbic areas and increased stress-induced striatal dopamine release. It is argued that, in order to reconcile genetic and environmental influences on the development of psychosis, gene-environment interactions may be an important mechanism in explaining between-subject differences in risk following (cumulative) exposure to psychosocial stress. To date, most studies suggestive of gene-stress interaction have used proxy measures for genetic vulnerability such as a family history of psychosis; studies investigating interactions between molecular genetic measures and psychosocial stressors are still relatively scarce. Preliminary evidence suggests that polymorphisms within the catechol-O-methyltransferase and brain-derived neurotrophic factor genes may interact with psychosocial stress in the development of psychosis; however, extensive further investigations are required to confirm this.
A controlled pharmacogenetic trial of sibutramine on weight loss and body composition in obese or overweight adults.	Weight loss in response to sibutramine is highly variable. We assessed the association of specific markers of polymorphisms of candidate alpha2A adrenoreceptor, 5-HT transporter, and GNbeta3 genes and weight loss with sibutramine.
Converging methods in studying attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: what can we learn from neuroimaging and genetics?	This paper discusses how converging methods may form a powerful tool in unraveling the neurobiology of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Integrating findings from multiple disciplines can inform us on how different neurobiological and cognitive mechanisms tie together in both typical and atypical development. Examples are discussed of this approach: combining family and genetic approaches with anatomical neuroimaging illustrates how mapping familial effects can bring us closer to understanding the neurobiology of ADHD. Functional neuroimaging has convincingly linked cognitive problems in this disorder with frontostriatal functioning, but also shows that other systems may be involved in some of the symptoms of ADHD. Combining these findings has suggested new avenues for investigation, such as the role of frontocerebellar networks. Furthermore, findings may have practical applications: this paper discusses an example of how converging evidence of striatal dysregulation in ADHD suggests possible directions for treatment that are now being explored in functional imaging studies.
Serotonin1A receptors in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia: development of novel cognition-enhancing therapeutics.	Serotonin (5-HT) receptors have been suggested to play key roles in psychosis, cognition, and mood via influence on neurotransmitters, synaptic integrity, and neural plasticity. Specifically, genetic evidence indicates that 5-HT(1A), 5-HT(2A), and 5-HT(2C) receptor single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are related to psychotic symptoms, cognitive disturbances, and treatment response in schizophrenia. Data from animal research suggest the role of 5-HT in cognition via its influence on dopaminergic, cholinergic, glutamatergic, and GABAergic function. This article provides up-to-date findings on the role of 5-HT receptors in endophenotypic variations in schizophrenia and the development of newer cognition-enhancing medications, based on basic science and clinical evidence. Imaging genetics studies on associations of polymorphisms of several 5-HT receptor subtypes with brain structure, function, and metabolism suggest a role for the prefrontal cortex and the parahippocampal gyrus in cognitive impairments of schizophrenia. Data from animal experiments to determine the effect of agonists/antagonists at 5-HT(1A), 5-HT(2A), and 5-HT(2C) receptors on behavioral performance in animal models of schizophrenia based on the glutamatergic hypothesis provide useful information. For this purpose, standard as well as novel cognitive tasks provide a measure of memory/information processing and social interaction. In order to scrutinize mixed evidence for the ability of 5-HT(1A) agonists/antagonists to improve cognition, behavioral data in various paradigms from transgenic mice overexpressing 5-HT(1A) receptors provide valuable insights. Clinical trials reporting the advantage of 5-HT(1A) partial agonists add to efforts to shape pharmacologic perspectives concerning cognitive enhancement in schizophrenia by developing novel compounds acting on 5-HT receptors. Overall, these lines of evidence from translational research will facilitate the development of newer pharmacologic strategies for the treatment of cognitive disturbances of schizophrenia.
A function of huntingtin in guanine nucleotide exchange on Rab11.	Huntingtin is ubiquitously expressed and enriched in the brain. Deletion of the huntingtin gene in mice is lethal during early embryonic development. The function of huntingtin is, however, not clear. Here, we report that huntingtin is important for the function of Rab11, a critical GTPase in regulating membrane traffic from recycling endosomes to the plasma membrane. In huntingtin-null embryonic stem cells, the levels of Rab11 on membranes and nucleotide exchange activity on Rab11 were significantly reduced compared with normal embryonic stem cells. In brain membranes, an antibody against huntingtin immunoprecipitated a nucleotide exchange activity on Rab11 and huntingtin was coprecipitated with Rab11 in the presence of guanosine diphosphate. These data suggest a role for huntingtin in a complex that activates Rab11.
Predictors of prophylactic response to lithium]	Since their first utilization in psychiatry as mood stabilizers in the 1940s, lithium salts have been widely studied in the medical literature. The considerable amount of data available to date, supports the use of lithium salts as first-line mood stabilizing agents, with acute antimanic and antidepressant properties and proven efficacy in the long term prevention of manic and depressive relapses.
Genetic opportunities for psychiatric epidemiology: on life stress and depression.	Genetics can offer new resources to epidemiology. This review will consider recent findings regarding the link between stress and depression as an example to illustrate the added value of employing genetics in epidemiological studies.
A serotonin transporter gene polymorphism (5-HTTLPR), drinking-to-cope motivation, and negative life events among college students.	This study was performed to examine whether a polymorphism (5-HTTLPR) in the serotonin transporter gene was related to college students' reports of relief drinking (drinking-to-cope motives) and whether it moderated the associations between negative life events and drinking to cope. We examined reward drinking (drinking-to-enhance motives) as a comparison and to see whether these effects varied across gender.
The serotonin transporter polymorphism rs25531 is associated with irritable bowel syndrome.	Irritable bowel syndrome is a frequent gastrointestinal disorder of unknown etiology. The serotonin transporter regulates the intensity and duration of serotonin signaling in the gut and is, therefore, an attractive candidate gene for irritable bowel syndrome. Previous studies investigating the 5-HTTLPR and Stin2 VNTR polymorphisms of the serotonin transporter have proved inconclusive. In this exploratory study we therefore expanded the search for a possible association of the serotonin transporter with irritable bowel syndrome to include not only the 5-HTTLPR and Stin2 VNTR length polymorphisms, but also the functional single nucleotide polymorphism rs25531. We genotyped 186 patients with irritable bowel syndrome and 50 healthy control subjects raging in age from 18 to 70 years. Carriers of the rare G allele of rs25531 had approximately threefold increased odds of irritable bowel syndrome compared with healthy controls (OR 3.3, 95% CI 1.1-9.6). Our findings suggest that further investigation of the possible role of the serotonin transporter in the etiology of IBS is warranted.
Serotonin transporter gene variation, infant abuse, and responsiveness to stress in rhesus macaque mothers and infants.	A functional polymorphism in the promoter region of the serotonin transporter (5-HTTLPR) gene has been associated with variation in anxiety and hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis function in humans and rhesus macaques. Individuals carrying the short allele are at a higher risk for developmental psychopathology, and this risk is magnified in short allele carriers who have experienced early life stress. This study investigated the relationship between 5-HTTLPR allelic variation, infant abuse, and behavioral and hormonal responses to stress in rhesus macaques. Subjects were 10 abusive mothers and their infants, and 10 nonabusive mother-infant pairs. Mothers and infants were genotyped for the rh5-HTTLPR, and studied in the first 6 months of infant life. For mothers and infants, we measured social group behavior, behavioral responses to handling procedures, and plasma concentrations of ACTH and cortisol under basal conditions and in response to stress tests. The proportion of individuals carrying the short rh5-HTTLPR allele was significantly higher among abusive mothers than controls. Among mothers and infants, the short allele was associated with higher basal cortisol levels and greater hormonal stress responses in the infants. In addition, infants who carried the short rh5-HTTLPR allele had higher anxiety scores than infants homozygous for the long allele. The rh5-HTTLPR genotype also interacted with early adverse experience to impact HPA axis function in the infants. These results are consistent with those of previous studies which demonstrate associations between serotonergic activity and anxiety and stress reactivity, and add additional evidence suggesting that genetic variation in serotonergic function may contribute to the occurrence of abusive parenting in rhesus macaques and modulate emotional behavior and HPA axis function.
Association and gene-gene interaction of SLC6A4 and ITGB3 in autism.	Autism is a heritable neurodevelopmental disorder with substantial genetic heterogeneity. Studies point to possible links between autism and two serotonin related genes: SLC6A4 and ITGB3 with a sex-specific genetic effect and interaction between the genes. Despite positive findings, inconsistent results have complicated interpretation. This study seeks to validate and clarify previous findings in an independent dataset taking into account sex, family-history (FH) and gene-gene effects. Family-based association analysis was performed within each gene. Gene-gene interactions were tested using extended multifactor dimensionality reduction (EMDR) and MDR-phenomics (MDR-P) using sex of affecteds and FH as covariates. No significant associations with individual SNPs were found in the datasets stratified by sex, but associations did emerge when we stratified by family history. While not significant in the overall dataset, nominally significant association was identified at RS2066713 (P = 0.006) within SLC6A4 in family-history negative (FH-) families, at RS2066713 (P = 0.038) in family-history positive (FH+) families but with the opposite risk allele as in the FH- families. For ITGB3, nominally significant association was identified at RS3809865 overall (P = 0.040) and within FH+ families (P = 0.031). However, none of the associations survived the multiple testing correction. MDR-P confirmed gene-gene effects using sex of affecteds (P = 0.023) and family history (P = 0.014, survived the multiple testing corrections) as covariates. Our results indicate the extensive heterogeneity within these two genes among families. The potential interaction between SLC6A4 and ITGB3 may be clarified using family history as an indicator of genetic architecture, illustrating the importance of covariates as markers of heterogeneity in genetic analyses.
Polymorphism of the serotonin transporter gene modulates brain and physiological responses to acute stress in Japanese men.	A short (S) variant, compared to a long (L) variant, of the promoter region of the serotonin transporter gene-linked polymorphic region (5HTTLPR) has been related to emotional hyper-reactivity. We tested whether the 5HTTLPR could modulate acute stress responses in the brain and, the cardiovascular and neuroendocrine systems. Ten Japanese male participants carrying double copies of the S alleles and 10 Japanese males carrying S and L alleles conducted a mental arithmetic task, and their regional cerebral blood flow by (15)O positron emission tomography and cardiovascular and neuroendocrine parameters were measured. During the acute stress task, the participants with the SS alleles showed stronger reactivity in blood pressure and secretion of epinephrine, compared to the participants with the SL and LL alleles. Furthermore, the SS carriers showed greater activation in stress-related brain regions such as the hypothalamus, cerebellum, midbrain, and pulvinar compared to the SL and LL carriers during the acute stress task. The present findings indicated that the S allele of the 5HTTLPR is associated with greater brain and physiological reactivity to acute stress in Japanese men.
Serotonin reuptake transporter (SERT) plays a critical role in the onset of fructose-induced hepatic steatosis in mice.	Elevated dietary fructose intake, altered intestinal motility, and barrier function may be involved in the development of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Because intestinal motility and permeability are also regulated through the bioavailability of serotonin (5-HT), we assessed markers of hepatic injury in serotonin reuptake transporter knockout (SERT(-/-)) and wild-type mice chronically exposed to different monosaccharide solutions (30% glucose or fructose solution) or water for 8 wk. The significant increase in hepatic triglyceride, TNF-alpha, and 4-hydroxynonenal adduct as well as portal endotoxin levels found in fructose-fed mice was associated with a significant decrease of SERT and the tight-junction occludin in the duodenum. Similar effects were not found in mice fed glucose. In contrast, in SERT(-/-) mice fed glucose, portal endotoxin levels, concentration of occludin, and indices of hepatic damage were similar to those found in wild-type and SERT(-/-) mice fed fructose. In fructose-fed mice treated with a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, hepatic steatosis was significantly attenuated. Our data suggest that a loss of intestinal SERT is a critical factor in fructose-induced impairment of intestinal barrier function and subsequently the development of steatosis.
Gene-environment interaction in posttraumatic stress disorder: an update.	The authors provide a detailed review of the extant gene-environment interaction (GxE) research in the etiology of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). They begin with a discussion of why PTSD is uniquely fitting for the innovative framework of GxE methodology, followed by a review of the heritability and main effect molecular genetics studies of PTSD. Next, they discuss the six GxE investigations to date on PTSD. They end with a discussion of future directions and significance of this research, with an emphasis on the expansion of psychosocial factors that may be fitting environmental variables for inclusion in this new research area. The authors posit that GxE research is vital to elucidating risk and resilience following exposure to a potentially traumatic event.
Serotonin transporter expression is predicted by early life stress and is associated with disinhibited behavior in infant rhesus macaques.	Serotonin transporter (5-HTT) expression patterns may contribute to the risk for adverse psychological outcomes following early life stress. The present study investigated whether two types of early life stress, maternal and social aggression, and a serotonin transporter gene promoter polymorphism (rh5-HTTLPR) predicted lower post-stressor peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) 5-HTT expression in infant rhesus macaques. We further probed the relationships among these factors and infant behavioral disinhibition within a stressful situation. Fifty-three infants residing with mothers in large, complex social groups were observed over the first 12 postnatal weeks, during which time the rate of aggression received by the infant from their mothers and social group members was recorded. At 90-120 days of age, infants underwent a 25-h maternal separation/biobehavioral assessment, which included standardized behavioral assessments and blood sampling. Infants' rh5-HTTLPR genotypes were determined, and infant 5-HTT expression was quantified from PBMCs collected 8 h after separation. Receipt of aggression from the mother, but not from social group members, was associated with lower post-stressor 5-HTT expression. Lower post-stressor 5-HTT expression, but not receipt of aggression, was associated with disinhibited behavior during assessment. Rh5-HTTLPR genotype was unrelated to any measure. We conclude that 5-HTT regulation is linked with specific, presumably stressful early experiences in infant rhesus macaques. Further, 5-HTT expression predicted behavioral disinhibition, presumably via parallel processes that operate in the brain.
A candidate gene analysis of methylphenidate response in attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder.	This study examines the potential role of candidate genes in moderating treatment effects of methylphenidate (MPH) in attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
Healthy young women with serotonin transporter SS polymorphism show a pro-inflammatory bias under resting and stress conditions.	The study of functionally relevant biological effects of serotonin transporter gene promoter region (5-HTTLPR) polymorphisms is especially important given the current controversy about the clinical relevance of these polymorphisms. Here we report an intrinsic immunobiological difference between individuals carrying two short (SS) versus long (LL) 5-HTTLPR alleles, that is observed in healthy subjects reporting low exposure to life stress. Given that 5-HTTLPR polymorphisms are thought to influence susceptibility to depression and are associated with robust neurobiological effects, that depression is associated with higher pro-inflammatory and lower anti-inflammatory cytokines, and that acute stressors increase circulating concentrations of pro-inflammatory cytokines, we hypothesized that compared to LL individuals, SS individuals may show a pro-inflammatory bias under resting conditions and/or during stress. 15 LL and 11 SS individuals participated in the Trier Social Stress Test (TSST). Serum IL-6 and IL-10 were quantified at baseline and 30, 60, 90, and 120min after beginning the 20-min stress test. Compared to LL individuals, SS individuals showed a higher IL-6/IL-10 ratio at baseline and during stress. Importantly, this pro-inflammatory bias was observed despite both groups being healthy, reporting similar intensities of stress and negative emotionality during the TSST, and reporting similar low exposures to early and recent life stress. To our knowledge, this is the first report of a pro-inflammatory bias/phenotype in individuals carrying the SS genotype of 5-HTTLPR. Thus, healthy SS individuals may be chronically exposed to a pro-inflammatory physiological burden under resting and stress conditions, which could increase their vulnerability to disorders like depression and other diseases that can be facilitated/exacerbated by a chronic pro-inflammatory state.
Interaction between 5-HTTLPR and BDNF Val66Met polymorphisms on HPA axis reactivity in preschoolers.	This study examined whether the interaction between the serotonin transporter promoter region (5-HTTLPR) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) Val66Met polymorphisms was associated with hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis reactivity to stress. A community sample of 144 preschool-aged children was genotyped and exposed to stress-inducing laboratory tasks. Salivary cortisol was obtained at four time points during a standardized laboratory assessment before and after stressors involving separation from a parent and frustrating tasks. Children homozygous for the short-5-HTTLPR allele and carrying the Met-BDNF allele evidenced a significantly lower initial level of cortisol, followed by a positive increase in cortisol in response to the laboratory stressors. In contrast, children who were homozygous for the short-5-HTTLPR and the Val-BDNF alleles evidenced a greater decline in cortisol in response to the laboratory stressors. Findings indicated that the BDNF gene moderated the association between 5-HTTLPR and children's biological stress responses, suggesting that epistatic effects play a role in individual differences in stress regulation, and possibly genetic vulnerability to stress-related disorders.
The serotonin transporter promoter polymorphism is associated with cortisol response to psychosocial stress.	Across multiple mental health-related measures, a polymorphism (5-HTTLPR) within the promoter of the serotonin transporter gene has been associated with differential psychological sensitivity to stressful experiences. Yet, the specific mechanisms by which this polymorphism contributes to risk for psychological dysfunction is unclear. Therefore, we investigated cortisol reactivity to psychosocial stress as a potential intermediate phenotype that might predispose to such risk.
Prospects for epigenetic research within cohort studies of psychological disorder: a pilot investigation of a peripheral cell marker of epigenetic risk for depression.	Cohort studies have considerable prima facie value for investigating epigenetic processes in psychological disorder; however, the future prospects for such studies will depend on valid peripheral markers. The purpose of this pilot study was to investigate association between buccal cell methylation and risk for depression. Epigenotyping was limited to promoter methylation of the serotonin transporter gene (5HTT). A transcription limiting VNTR in the 5HTT promoter (5HTTLPR) was also genotyped. A nested sample of 25 depressed and 125 non-depressed adolescents was drawn from an established longitudinal study of adolescent health. There was no association between depressive symptoms and either buccal cell 5HTT methylation or 5HTTLPR. However, depressive symptoms were more common among those with elevated buccal cell 5HTT methylation who carried 5HTTLPR short-allele (OR 4.9, CI 1.9-13, p=0.001). Both complete and partial (as little as 10%) methylation of a 5HTT reporter gene in an expressing cell line reduced 5HTT activity. Replication is needed.
Analysis of real-time serotonin (5-HT) availability during experimental colitis in mouse.	Serotonin (5-HT)-containing enterochromaffin (EC) cells of the intestine transduce chemical and mechanical stimuli from the intestinal lumen by releasing 5-HT on to afferent nerve terminals. Dysfunctional mucosal 5-HT signaling has been implicated in heightened visceral sensitivity and altered motility in patients with inflammatory bowel disease and in animal models. Our aim was to characterize the release and uptake of 5-HT in the mouse dextran sulfate sodium (DSS; 5% wt/vol) model of colitis. We made electrochemical recordings and used an ELISA assay to determine mucosal 5-HT release and uptake in untreated mice and mice with DSS-induced colitis. Peak and steady-state 5-HT concentrations were measured before and during blockade of the serotonin reuptake transporter (SERT) with 1 microM fluoxetine. Electrochemical recordings showed that colons from DSS-treated mice had roughly twice the steady-state levels of extracellular 5-HT and compression-evoked 5-HT release compared with untreated mice. Fluoxetine doubled the compression-evoked and steady-state 5-HT levels in control and DSS mice. These data were supported by ELISA assays, which showed enhanced 5-HT release during colitis, by immunohistochemical analyses, which showed increases in EC cell numbers, and by real-time PCR, which identified a decrease in SERT mRNA expression in the mucosa during colitis. These data are the first to demonstrate 5-HT release close to its release site and near its site of action during DSS-colitis. We conclude that DSS-colitis increases 5-HT availability primarily by an increase in the numbers of EC cells and/or of content of 5-HT in these EC cells.
A pharmacogenetic study of escitalopram in autism spectrum disorders.	To determine the effect of serotonin transporter polymorphism promoter region (5-HTTPLR) genotypic variation (low, intermediate, and high expression groups) on response to escitalopram treatment of children and adolescents with autism spectrum disorders (ASDs).
Reduced function of the serotonin transporter is associated with decreased expression of BDNF in rodents as well as in humans.	In order to identify the molecular mechanisms that may contribute to the enhanced susceptibility to depression under serotonin transporter (SERT) dysfunction, we analyzed the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a key player in neuronal plasticity, which is implicated in the etiology and treatment of depression. We found that BDNF levels were significantly reduced in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex of SERT knockout rats, through transcriptional changes that affect different neurotrophin isoforms. The reduction of BDNF gene expression observed in prefrontal cortex is due, at least in part, to epigenetic changes that affect the promoter regions of exons IV and VI. Moreover, BDNF gene expression is also significantly reduced in leukocytes from healthy subjects carrying the S allele of the 5-HTTLPR, suggesting that the changes observed in SERT mutant rats may also be present in humans and may confer enhanced vulnerability to mood disorders.
Modeling complex genetic and environmental influences on comorbid bipolar disorder with tobacco use disorder.	Comorbidity of psychiatric and substance use disorders represents a significant complication in the clinical course of both disorders. Bipolar Disorder (BD) is a psychiatric disorder characterized by severe mood swings, ranging from mania to depression, and up to a 70% rate of comorbid Tobacco Use Disorder (TUD). We found epidemiological evidence consistent with a common underlying etiology for BD and TUD, as well as evidence of both genetic and environmental influences on BD and TUD. Therefore, we hypothesized a common underlying genetic etiology, interacting with nicotine exposure, influencing susceptibility to both BD and TUD.
Association analysis between gene variants of the tyrosine hydroxylase and the serotonin transporter in borderline personality disorder.	For patients with borderline personality disorder (BPD), we previously reported an independent effect of the catechol-o-methyl-transferase (COMT) low-activity (Met(158)) allele and an interaction with the low-expression allele of the deletion/insertion (short/long or S/L, resp.) polymorphism in the serotonin transporter-linked promoter region (5-HTTLPR). The purpose of the present study was to extend these findings to the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) Val(81)Met single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), the 5-HTTLPR S/L polymorphism incorporating the recently described functional A/G SNP within the long allele of the 5-HTTLPR (rs25531) as well as the variable number of tandem repeat (VNTR) polymorphism within intron 2 of the serotonin transporter gene (STin2).
The association between the harm avoidance subscale of the Tridimensional Personality Questionnaire and serotonin transporter availability in the brainstem of male volunteers.	The relationship between harm avoidance scores of the Tridimensional Personality Questionnaire and serotonin transporter availability, as approximated using single photon emission computed tomography with [(123)I] ADAM, was examined. Our results showed a significant negative correlation between the harm avoidance total score, as well as the asthenia subscore, and serotonin transporter availability, particularly in males.
Human amniocytes regulate serotonin levels by active uptake and express genes suggestive of a wider role in facilitating neurotransmitter regulation in the fetal environment.	Fetal serotonin levels, which mediate multiple developmental processes, are highly regulated. However, an incomplete picture exists on the component parts of such regulation during fetal growth. Serotonin and its metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) are found in the amniotic fluid, also containing significant numbers of amniocytes, previously thought to be the result of cell shedding as a byproduct of growth. The aim of the present study was to examine human amniocytes as a potentially active and dynamic component of serotonin regulation in the fetal environment. Using amniocytes derived from multiple donors of amniocentesis, we found all components necessary for serotonin metabolism. We identified a strong expression of the serotonin transporter and confirmed the high-affinity serotonin transporter-mediated uptake of serotonin (5-HT), along with uptake via the norepinephrine transporter, and an evidence of 5-HT breakdown due to the expression of the degradative enzymes monoamine oxidase A and B. Additionally, wider expression analysis for biogenic amine and cholinergic metabolism suggests a capability for cholinergic synthesis and release and for catecholamine storage. Our results shed new light on amniocytes, consistent with a role in the homeostasis of neurotransmitters during fetal development. Moreover, these results may provide clinical significance for amniocytes as new targets for uptake inhibitors such as tricyclic antidepressants, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, and drugs of abuse such as cocaine, with implications on their regulation during pregnancy. This work shows for the first time an inherent in vivo function of amniocytes and more broadly implicates them as a new and active component of the fetal-maternal regulatory system.
Forced expression of LIM homeodomain transcription factor 1b enhances differentiation of mouse embryonic stem cells into serotonergic neurons.	The LIM homeodomain transcription factor 1b (Lmx1b) is a key factor in the specification of the serotonergic neurotransmitter phenotype. Here, we explored the capacity of Lmx1b to direct differentiation of mouse embryonic stem (mES) cells into serotonergic neurons. mES cells stably expressing human Lmx1b were generated by lentiviral vector infection. Clones expressing Lmx1b at a low level showed increased neurogenesis and elevated production of neurons expressing serotonin, serotonin transporter, tryptophan hydroxylase 2, and transcription factor Pet1, the landmarks of serotonergic differentiation. To explore the role of Lmx1b in the specification of the serotonin neurotransmission phenotype further, a conditional system making use of a floxed inducible vector targeted into the ROSA26 locus and a hormone-dependent Cre recombinase was engineered. This novel strategy was tested with the reporter gene encoding human placental alkaline phosphatase, and demonstrated its capacity to drive transgene expression in nestin(+) neural progenitors (NPs) and in Tuj1(+) neurons. When it was applied to inducible expression of human Lmx1b, it resulted in elevated expression of serotonergic markers. Treatment of neural precursors with the floor plate signal Sonic hedgehog further enhanced differentiation of Lmx1b-overexpressing NPs into neurons expressing 5-HT, serotonin transporter, tryptophan hydroxylase 2, and Pet1, when compared with Lmx1b-nonexpressing progenitors. Together, our results demonstrate the capacity of Lmx1b to specify a serotonin neurotransmitter phenotype when overexpressed in mES cell-derived NPs.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor and serotonin transporter gene-linked promoter region genes alter serum levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in humans.	Polymorphisms in the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) val66met and serotonin transporter gene-linked promoter region (5-HTTLPR) are associated with alterations in mood and BDNF protein, but the effects of two genetic variations on the serum level of BDNF is unclear. Therefore, we sought to explore the effects of two polymorphisms on serum levels of BDNF in healthy subjects.
Association of serotonin transporter gene variation with smoking, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and its depressive symptoms.	A serotonin transporter gene, SLC6A4, is thought to be related to nicotine dependence and depression, one of the comorbidities of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). To investigate the association between SLC6A4 variation and tobacco consumption, susceptibility to COPD, and depression status. In all, 247 patients with COPD and 119 control subjects were genotyped for 5 tag single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of SLC6A4. We analyzed the correlation between these genotypes and COPD, using the results of a pulmonary function test or chest computed tomography; data on tobacco consumption (pack-years); and the depression score based on the hospital anxiety and depression scale (HADS) after adjusting for age, gender, and smoking status (and pack-years, when appropriate). The rare allele rs2020936 was significantly associated with COPD incidence in the trend model (P = 0.003; odds ratio, 2.20; 95% confidence interval, 1.31-3.74). This allele was also associated with the number of pack-years (P = 0.026). The major allele of another SNP of SLC6A4, namely rs3794808, correlated with the HADS depression score (P = 0.016). We conclude that SLC6A4 variation affects COPD pathogenesis, and this effect depends partly on tobacco consumption. SLC6A4 variation also affects depressive symptoms. SLC6A4 could be modified to prevent COPD and treat the depressive symptoms of COPD.
Cumulative-genetic plasticity, parenting and adolescent self-regulation.	The capacity to control or regulate one's emotions, cognitions and behavior is central to competent functioning, with limitations in these abilities associated with developmental problems. Parenting appears to influence such self-regulation. Here the differential-susceptibility hypothesis is tested that the more putative 'plasticity alleles' adolescents carry, the more positively and negatively influenced they will be by, respectively, supportive and unsupportive parenting.
Maternal depressive history, teen 5HTTLPR genotype, and the processing of emotional faces: Exploring mechanisms of risk.	Variations in the serotonin transporter gene (5HTTLPR) and biased processing of face-emotion displays both have been implicated in the transmission of depression risk, but little is known about developmental influences on these relationships. Within a community sample of adolescents, we examine whether 5HTTLPR genotype moderates the link between maternal depressive history and errors in face-emotion labeling. When controlling for current levels of depression and anxiety among youth, a two-way interaction between maternal depressive history and 5HTTLPR genotype was detected. Specifically, adolescents whose mothers reported a depressive history and who had a low expressing genotype made more errors in classifying emotional faces when compared with adolescents with an intermediate or high expressing genotype, with or without maternal depression history. These findings highlight the complex manner in which maternal depression and genetic risk may interact to predict individual differences in social information processing.
Electroconvulsive shock ameliorates disease processes and extends survival in huntingtin mutant mice.	Huntington's disease (HD) is an inherited neurodegenerative disorder caused by expanded polyglutamine repeats in the huntingtin (Htt) protein. Mutant Htt may damage and kill striatal neurons by a mechanism involving reduced production of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and increased oxidative and metabolic stress. Because electroconvulsive shock (ECS) can stimulate the production of BDNF and protect neurons against stress, we determined whether ECS treatment would modify the disease process and provide a therapeutic benefit in a mouse model of HD. ECS (50 mA for 0.2 s) or sham treatment was administered once weekly to male N171-82Q Htt mutant mice beginning at 2 months of age. Endpoints measured included motor function, striatal and cortical pathology, and levels of protein chaperones and BDNF. ECS treatment delayed the onset of motor symptoms and body weight loss and extended the survival of HD mice. Striatal neurodegeneration was attenuated and levels of protein chaperones (Hsp70 and Hsp40) and BDNF were elevated in striatal neurons of ECS-treated compared with sham-treated HD mice. Our findings demonstrate that ECS can increase the resistance of neurons to mutant Htt resulting in improved functional outcome and extended survival. The potential of ECS as an intervention in subjects that inherit the mutant Htt gene merits further consideration.
The serotonin transporter, gender, and 17 oestradiol in the development of pulmonary arterial hypertension.	Idiopathic and familial forms of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) predominantly affect females through an unknown mechanism. Activity of the serotonin transporter (SERT) may modulate the development of PAH, and mice overexpressing SERT (SERT+ mice) develop PAH and severe hypoxia-induced PAH. In the central nervous system, oestrogens influence activity of the serotonin system. Therefore, we examined the influence of gender on the development of PAH in SERT+ mice and how this is modulated by female hormones.
A family based association study of DRD4, DAT1, and 5HTT and continuous traits of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder.	Despite its high heritability, genetic association studies of attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) have often resulted in somewhat small, inconsistent effects. Refining the ADHD phenotype beyond a dichotomous diagnosis and testing associations with continuous information from the underlying symptom dimensions may result in more consistent genetic findings. This study further examined the association between ADHD and the DRD4, DAT1, and 5HTT genes by testing their association with multivariate phenotypes derived from continuous measures of ADHD symptom severity. DNA was collected in 202 families consisting of at least one ADHD proband and at least one parent or sibling. VNTR polymorphisms of the DRD4 and DAT1 genes were significantly associated with the continuous ADHD phenotype. The association with DRD4 was driven by both inattentive and hyperactive symptoms, while the association with DAT1 was driven primarily by inattentive symptoms. These results use novel methods to build upon important connections between dopamine genes and their final behavioral manifestation as symptoms of ADHD.
The serotonin transporter availability in untreated early-onset and late-onset patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder.	The pathogenetic role of central serotonin transporters (SERT) in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) has been investigated in vivo by positron emission tomography (PET) or single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) studies with inconsistent results. This might reflect methodological differences but possibly also the pathophysiological heterogeneity of the disorder, i.e. the age at onset of OCD. The aim of our study was to compare SERT availability in patients with OCD to healthy controls (HC) taking into account the onset type, other factors and covariates (e.g. SERT genotype, age, depression level, gender). We studied 19 drug-naive OCD patients (3613 yr, eight females) with early onset (EO-OCD, n=6) or with late onset (LO-OCD, n=13), and 21 HC (388 yr, nine females) with PET and the SERT-selective radiotracer [11C]DASB. Statistical models indicated that a variety of covariates and their interaction influenced SERT availability measured by distribution volume ratios (DVR). These models revealed significant effects of onset type on DVR with lower values in LO-OCD (starting at age 18 yr) compared to EO-OCD and HC in limbic (e.g. the amygdala), paralimbic brain areas (the anterior cingulate cortex), the nucleus accumbens and striatal regions, as well as borderline significance in the thalamus and the hypothalamus. The putamen, nucleus accumbens and hypothalamus were found with significant interaction between two SERT gene polymorphisms (SERT-LPR and VNTR). These findings suggest that late but not early onset of OCD is associated with abnormally low SERT availability. In part, functional polymorphisms of the SERT gene might determine the differences.
Life stress, 5-HTTLPR and mental disorder: findings from a 30-year longitudinal study.	Recent meta-analyses have raised concerns about the replicability of gene  environment interactions involving the serotonin transporter gene (5-HTTLPR) in moderating the associations between adverse life events and mental disorders.
Serotonin transporter, sex, and hypoxia: microarray analysis in the pulmonary arteries of mice identifies genes with relevance to human PAH.	Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is up to threefold more prevalent in women than men. Female mice overexpressing the serotonin transporter (SERT; SERT+ mice) exhibit PAH and exaggerated hypoxia-induced PAH, whereas male SERT+ mice remain unaffected. To further investigate these sex differences, microarray analysis was performed in the pulmonary arteries of normoxic and chronically hypoxic female and male SERT+ mice. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis was employed for validation of the microarray data. In relevant groups, immunoblotting was performed for genes of interest (CEBP, CYP1B1, and FOS). To translate clinical relevance to our findings, CEBP, CYP1B1, and FOS mRNA and protein expression was assessed in pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells (PASMCs) derived from idiopathic PAH (IPAH) patients and controls. In female SERT+ mice, multiple pathways with relevance to PAH were altered. This was also observed in chronically hypoxic female SERT+ mice. We selected 10 genes of interest for qRT-PCR analysis (FOS, CEBP, CYP1B1, MYL3, HAMP2, LTF, PLN, NPPA, UCP1, and C1S), and 100% concordance was reported. Protein expression of three selected genes, CEBP, CYP1B1, FOS, was also upregulated in female SERT+ mice. Serotonin and 17-estradiol increased CEBP, CYP1B1, and FOS protein expression in PASMCs. In addition, CEBP, CYP1B1, and FOS mRNA and protein expression was also increased in PASMCs derived from IPAH patients. Here, we have identified a number of genes that may predispose female SERT+ mice to PAH, and these findings may also be relevant to human PAH.
Association of the arginine vasopressin receptor 1A (AVPR1A) haplotypes with listening to music.	Music is listened in all cultures. We hypothesize that willingness to produce and perceive sound and music is social communication that needs musical aptitude. Here, listening to music was surveyed using a web-based questionnaire and musical aptitude using the auditory structuring ability test (Karma Music test) and Carl Seashores tests for pitch and for time. Three highly polymorphic microsatellite markers (RS3, RS1 and AVR) of the arginine vasopressin receptor 1A (AVPR1A) gene, previously associated with social communication and attachment, were genotyped and analyzed in 31 Finnish families (n=437 members) using family-based association analysis. A positive association between the AVPR1A haplotype (RS1 and AVR) and active current listening to music (permuted P=0.0019) was observed. Other AVPR1A haplotype (RS3 and AVR) showed association with lifelong active listening to music (permuted P=0.0022). In addition to AVPR1A, two polymorphisms (5-HTTLPR and variable number of tandem repeat) of human serotonin transporter gene (SLC6A4), a candidate gene for many neuropsychiatric disorders and previously associated with emotional processing, were analyzed. No association between listening to music and the polymorphisms of SLC6A4 were detected. The results suggest that willingness to listen to music is related to neurobiological pathways affecting social affiliation and communication.
Impaired uptake of serotonin by platelets from patients with irritable bowel syndrome correlates with duodenal immune activation.	Patients with irritable bowel syndrome with diarrhea (IBS-D) have increased mucosal serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine [5-HT]) availability, possibly because immune activation reduces activity of the 5-HT transporter (SERT). We investigated the relationship between mucosal and platelet SERT and immune activation of the duodenal mucosa in patients with IBS-D.
Estradiol effects on behavior and serum oxytocin are modified by social status and polymorphisms in the serotonin transporter gene in female rhesus monkeys.	Despite the well-documented relation between estradiol (E2) and behavior, exposure to stressors may modify sensitivity to E2. The effects of E2 on behavior are, in part, likely related to their modulation of the serotonin (5HT) and oxytocin systems. The short allele (s-variant) polymorphism found in the promoter region of the SLC6A4 gene that encodes the 5HT transporter (5HTT) modulates responsivity to stressors. The current study used ovariectomized adult female rhesus monkeys to evaluate how exposure to the psychosocial stressor of social subordination and polymorphisms in the gene encoding 5HTT influence the behavioral effects of E2 and immunoreactive serum oxytocin. Dominant females had higher levels of oxytocin than subordinate animals even though E2 increased immunoreactive serum oxytocin in all females. E2 increased affiliative behaviors in all animals, with even more of these prosocial behaviors directed at dominant females. S-variant females, regardless of social status, were more aggressive toward more subordinate cage mates and these behaviors too were increased by E2. Subordinate s-variant females are most often involved in agonistic behavior, less affiliative behavior, and were less responsive to the anxiolytic action of E2. The results show that the short allele of the 5HTT gene synergizes with psychosocial stress exposure to affect the behavioral efficacy of E2 while confirming the actions of E2 for producing generalized behavioral arousal in females. Whether differences in the central action of 5HT and/or oxytocin are responsible for this effect requires further study.
Serotonin transporter deficiency protects mice from mechanical allodynia and heat hyperalgesia in vincristine neuropathy.	Painful vincristine (VCR) neuropathy is a frequent and dose-limiting problem in cancer treatment. Here, we investigated how pain behavior is modulated in mice lacking the serotonin transporter (5-HTT-/- mice) after inducing neuropathy by intraperitoneal injections of VCR. We used standard tests for evoked pain, high performance liquid chromatography to measure serotonin (5-HT), and immunohistochemistry of L4/5 dorsal root ganglia (DRG) to assess neuronal injury and inflammation. After injections of VCR, 5-HTT-/- mice did not develop hypersensitivity to heat, in contrast to their wildtype (wt) littermates (p<0.05). Also, 5-HTT-/- mice recovered faster from mechanical hypersensitivity than wt mice (p<0.05). 5-HT levels were lower in the peripheral and central nervous tissue of vehicle or VCR-treated 5-HTT-/- mice compared to wt mice. VCR-treated mice had higher numbers of injured neurons as identified by immunostaining for activating transcription factor 3, and more immunoreactive macrophages in the L4/5 DRG than vehicle-treated mice. There was no difference between genotypes. Thus the 5-HTT-/- genotype did not protect mice from VCR-induced neuronal injury and macrophage infiltration in the DRG. Our results suggest that the reduced peripheral 5-HT levels of 5-HTT-/- mice in VCR neuropathy underlie the lack of heat hyperalgesia. Conversely, attenuation of mechanical allodynia in 5-HTT-/- mice may indicate reduced 5-HT-mediated facilitation in the central nervous system.
Serotonin transporter gene polymorphism in Chinese patients with poststroke depression: a case-control study.	We sought to compare the distribution of the serotonin transporter gene SLC6A4 polymorphism between depressed and nondepressed poststroke patients.
The influence of psychiatric screening in healthy populations selection: a new study and meta-analysis of functional 5-HTTLPR and rs25531 polymorphisms and anxiety-related personality traits.	A genetic liability for anxiety-related personality traits in healthy subjects has been associated with the functional serotonin transporter promoter polymorphism (5-HTTLPR), although the data are somewhat conflicting. Moreover, only one study has investigated the functional significance of the 5-HTTLPR/rs25531 haplotypes in relation to anxiety traits in healthy subjects. We tested whether the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism and the 5-HTTLPR/rs25531 haplotypes are linked to Harm Avoidance (HA) using an association study (STUDY I) and a meta-analytic approach (STUDY II).
DRD4 genotype moderates the impact of parental problems on unresolved loss or trauma.	In the current study we tested whether the dopamine receptor D4 (DRD4) genotype moderates the association of experienced parental problems during childhood (e.g., parental depression, marital discord) with unresolved loss or trauma during the Adult Attachment Interview. To test the specificity of this moderation the role of the serotonin transporter gene promoter (5-HTTLPR) was also examined. Subjects were 124 adopted adults (mean age 39 years). Participants with the DRD4-7 repeat (7R) allele who experienced parental problems had the highest scores for unresolved loss or trauma whereas participants with DRD4-7R who did not experience parental problems showed the lowest ratings. Among participants without DRD4-7R, the parental problems during childhood did not make a difference. 5-HTTLPR did not moderate the relation between parental problems and unresolved loss or trauma. Our study shows heightened susceptibility to environmental influences for carriers of the DRD4-7R allele, and suggests that the interplay between specific dopamine-related genes and family contexts leads to more or less successful coping with adverse childhood experiences.
Polymorphism of the dopamine D4 receptor (DRD4) and serotonin transporter (5-HTTL) gene promoter regions in African tribes of Hadza and Datoga]	Molecular genetic analysis of the allelic variants of the DRD4 and 5-HTTL gene promoter regions was performed in African tribes of Hadza and Datoga, characterized by different levels of socially acceptable aggression. It was demonstrated that Hadza and Datoga people differed in the structural organization of one of the 5-HTTL alleles (extra long allele xL). Analysis of the allele length polymorphism of both genes showed that in the Hadza and Datoga samples examined, variation parameters, as well as the genotype and allele frequency distribution pattern were almost the same. At the same time, analysis of the SNP polymorphism at the A/G substitutions of the 5-HTTL locus revealed a substantial decrease of the active allele L(A) frequency in the population of Hadza compared to the population of Datoga (chi2 = 3.77; d.f = 1; P = 0.052).
Dopamine transport by the serotonin transporter: a mechanistically distinct mode of substrate translocation.	The serotonin transporter (SERT) is the principal mechanism for terminating serotonin (5-HT) signals in the nervous system and is a site of action for a variety of psychoactive drugs including antidepressants, amphetamines, and cocaine. Here we show that human SERTs (hSERTs) and rat SERTs are capable of robust dopamine (DA) uptake through a process that differs mechanistically from 5-HT transport in several unanticipated ways. DA transport by hSERT has a higher maximum velocity than 5-HT transport, requires significantly higher Na(+) and Cl(-) concentrations to sustain transport, is inhibited noncompetitively by 5-HT, and is more sensitive to SERT inhibitors, including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. We use a thiol-reactive methane thiosulfonate (MTS) reagent to modify a conformationally sensitive cysteine residue to demonstrate that hSERT spends more time in an outward facing conformation when transporting DA than when transporting 5-HT. Cotransfection of an inactive or an MTS-sensitive SERT with wild-type SERT subunits reveals an absence of cooperative interactions between subunits during DA but not 5-HT transport. To establish the physiological relevance of this mechanism for DA clearance, we show using in vivo high-speed chronoamperometry that SERT has the capacity to clear extracellularly applied DA in the hippocampal CA3 region of anesthetized rats. Together, these observations suggest the possibility that SERT serves as a DA transporter in vivo and highlight the idea that there can be distinct modes of transport of alternative physiological substrates by SERT.
Role of serotonergic-related systems in suicidal behavior: Data from a case-control association study.	To investigate whether functional polymorphisms directly (HTR2A and SLC6A4 genes) or indirectly (IL-1 gene complex, APOE and ACE genes) related with serotonergic neurotransmission were associated with suicidal behavior.
SLC6A4 methylation modifies the effect of the number of traumatic events on risk for posttraumatic stress disorder.	Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a common and debilitating mental disorder that occurs following exposure to a traumatic event. However, most individuals do not develop PTSD following even a severe trauma, leading to a search for new variables, such as genetic and other molecular variation, associated with vulnerability and resilience in the face of trauma exposure.
Serotonin transporter gene polymorphism may be associated with functional dyspepsia in a Japanese population.	Although familial clustering of functional dyspepsia (FD) has been reported, the role of genetics in the susceptibility to FD is still not well understood. In the present study, the association between serotonin transporter (SERT) gene (SLC6A4) polymorphism and FD was explored.
Intronic tandem repeat in the serotonin transporter gene in Old World monkeys: a new transcriptional regulator?	The serotonin transporter gene (SLC6A4) is heavily involved in the regulation of social behaviour of primates. Old World monkeys (e.g. macaques, baboons) have been used to study interactions between variation in the SLC6A4 gene and behaviour. Correlations of variation at one polymorphism located in the promoter region (known as 5HTTLPR) and variation at SLC6A4 expression levels, serotonin turnover and behaviour has been widely studied. In Old World monkeys, the third intron of the SLC6A4 gene also presents a tandem repeat, which sequence varies across species by a few point substitutions. We predict that in these species, this repeated region also acts as transcriptional regulatory domain and that sequence variation at this polymorphic locus might result in differential levels of expression in gene-environment interactions. For testing these hypotheses, the tandem repeat of Mandrillus sphinx and Cercopithecus aethiops from the third intron were cloned into a reporter gene vector and delivered to either primary cultures of rat neonate frontal cortex or the human cell line (JAr) to analyse their transcriptional activities. These repeated sequences supported significantly different levels of gene expression only when delivered into frontal cortex cultures. Furthermore, we tested in silico if such substitutions could have an effect on their binding profile to RNA- and DNA-binding proteins and on splicing. Taken together our results suggest that the tandem repeat in the third intron of the SLC6A4 gene of Old World monkeys could constitute a second transcriptional regulator as suggested for the 5HTTLPR and therefore contribute to diversification of serotonin-related behaviour in these primates.
Genetic sensitivity to the caregiving context: the influence of 5httlpr and BDNF val66met on indiscriminate social behavior.	Evidence that geneenvironment interactions can reflect differential sensitivity to the environmental context, rather than risk or resilience, is increasing. To test this model, we examined the genetic contribution to indiscriminate social behavior, in the setting of a randomized controlled trial of foster care compared to institutional rearing. Children enrolled in the Bucharest Early Intervention Project (BEIP) were assessed comprehensively before the age of 30 months and subsequently randomized to either care as usual (CAUG) or high quality foster care (FCG). Indiscriminate social behavior was assessed at four time points, baseline, 30 months, 42 months and 54 months of age, using caregiver report with the Disturbances of Attachment Interview (DAI). General linear mixed-effects models were used to examine the effect of the interaction between group status and functional polymorphisms in Brain Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF) and the Serotonin Transporter (5htt) on levels of indiscriminate behavior over time. Differential susceptibility, relative to levels of indiscriminate behavior, was demonstrated in children with either the s/s 5httlpr genotype or met 66 BDNF allele carriers. Specifically children with either the s/s 5httlpr genotype or met66 carriers in BDNF demonstrated the lowest levels of indiscriminate behavior in the FCG and the highest levels in the CAUG. Children with either the long allele of the 5httlpr or val/val genotype of BDNF demonstrated little difference in levels of indiscriminate behaviors over time and no groupgenotype interaction. Children with both plasticity genotypes had the most signs of indiscriminate behavior at 54 months if they were randomized to the CAUG in the institution, while those with both plasticity genotypes randomized to the FCG intervention had the fewest signs at 54 months. Strikingly children with no plasticity alleles demonstrated no intervention effect on levels of indiscriminate behavior at 54 months. These findings represent the first genetic associations reported with indiscriminate social behavior, replicate previous genegeneenvironment findings with these polymorphisms, and add to the growing body of literature supporting a differential susceptibility model of geneenvironment interactions in developmental psychopathology.
Serotonin transporter gene, stress and raphe-raphe interactions: a molecular mechanism of depression.	Reports of gene-environment interactions (GxE) between the serotonin transporter gene and stress on risk of depression have generated both excitement and controversy. The controversy persists in part because a mechanistic account of this GxE on serotonergic neurotransmission and risk of depression has been lacking. In this Opinion, we draw on recent discoveries in the functional neuroanatomy of the serotonergic dorsal raphe nucleus (DR) to propose such a mechanistic account. We argue that genetically produced variability in serotonin reuptake during stressor-induced raphe-raphe interactions alters the balance in the amygdala-ventromedial prefrontal cortex (VMPFC)-DR circuitry underlying stressor reactivity and emotion regulation. In particular, the recently characterized stressor-responsive serotonergic interneurons originating from the dorsolateral DR may hold a key to unlocking the GxE mechanism of depression.
Attentional bias to negative information and 5-HTTLPR genotype interactively predict students' emotional reactivity to first university semester.	People strongly differ in their emotional reactions to potentially stressing and challenging environmental circumstances. Two classes of individual differences have independently been reported to contribute to such emotional vulnerability: an attentional bias to negative information and a variation in the serotonin transporter gene (5-HTTLPR). The present study was conducted to investigate the possibility that these cognitive and genetic markers interact in their prospective prediction of emotional reactivity to an extended and mild potential stressor. Changes in dysphoria and anxiety across their first university semester were measured in 120 students. Results indicate that attentional bias toward negative information on Week 1 of the semester significantly predicted cross-semester changes in both anxiety and dysphoria. For the latter, this predictive capacity depended on the 5-HTTLPR genotype. Specifically, only in homozygous carriers of the 5-HTTLPR short allele did attentional bias to negative information on Week 1 significantly predict cross-semester change in dysphoria. These results carry important theoretical and practical implications concerning the ability to identify individuals vulnerable to experiencing elevated emotional reactivity to potentially stressing life-events.
Behavioural therapy based on distraction alleviates impaired fear extinction in male serotonin transporter knockout rats.	The "biological susceptibility" model posits that some individuals, by genetic predisposition, are highly sensitive to environmental stimuli. Exposure to adverse stimuli leads to negative outcomes, and better outcomes follow favourable stimuli. Recent studies indicate that individuals carrying the low-activity (short; s) variant of the serotonin transporter (5-HTT)-linked polymorphic region (5-HTTLPR) show an enhanced vulnerability to posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Simultaneously, they respond poorly to exposure therapy, the first-line treatment to enhance fear extinction in individuals with PTSD. Given that s-allele carriers also show improved adaptive responding when exposed to positive stimuli, we hypothesized that this trait could be used to offset impaired fear extinction.
The SSRI citalopram affects fetal thalamic axon responsiveness to netrin-1 in vitro independently of SERT antagonism.	Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) signaling is thought to modulate nervous system development. Genetic and pharmacological studies support the idea that altered 5-HT signaling during development can have enduring consequences on brain function and behavior. Recently, we discovered that 5-HT can modulate thalamic axon guidance in vitro and in vivo. Embryonic thalamic axons transiently express the 5-HT transporter (SERT; Slc6a4) and accumulate 5-HT, suggesting that the SERT activity of these axons may regulate 5-HT-modulated guidance cues. We tested whether pharmacologically blocking SERT using selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) would impact the action of 5-HT on thalamic axon responses to netrin-1 in vitro. Surprisingly, we observed that two high-affinity SSRIs, racemic citalopram ((RS)-CIT) and paroxetine, affect the outgrowth of embryonic thalamic axons, but differ with respect to their dependence on SERT blockade. Using a recently developed 'citalopram insensitive' transgenic mouse line and in vitro pharmacology, we show that the effect of (RS)-CIT effect is SERT independent, but rather arises from R-CIT activation of the orphan sigma-1 receptor(1, Oprs1). Our results reveal a novel 1 activity in modulating axon guidance and a 5-HT independent action of a widely prescribed SSRI. By extension, (RS)-CIT and possibly other structurally similar SSRIs may have other off-target actions that can impact neural development and contribute to therapeutic efficacy or side effects.
Sex modulates the interactive effect of the serotonin transporter gene polymorphism and childhood adversity on hippocampal volume.	The common genetic variation of the serotonin transporter-linked polymorphic region (5-HTTLPR) has been related to depressive symptoms, in particular after stressful life events. Although it has been investigated in the past, results suggesting that the 5-HTTLPR genotype also affects hippocampal volume are often inconsistent and it remains unclear to what extent reduced hippocampal volume is influenced by the effect of stressful life events and 5-HTTLPR genotype. Moreover, sex, which is known to affect the prevalence of depression substantially, has not been taken into account when trying to disentangle the interactive effect of common genetic variation and environmental stressors on the hippocampus. We investigated this potentially relevant three-way interaction using an automatic magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-based segmentation of the hippocampus in 357 healthy individuals. We determined the 5-HTTLPR genotype as a biallelic locus and childhood adversity (CA) using a standard questionnaire. An interaction for hippocampal volume was found between the factors sex, genotype, and severe CA (p=0.010) as well as an interaction between genotype and severe CA (p=0.007) in men only. Post hoc tests revealed that only male S'-allele carriers with severe CA had smaller hippocampi (p=0.002). Interestingly, there was no main effect of genotype in men, while female S'-allele carriers had smaller hippocampi than L'L' carriers (p=0.023). Our results indicate that sex modulates the interactive effect of the 5-HTTLPR genotype and CA on hippocampal volume. While the S'-allele is associated with hippocampal volume independent of CA in women, men only have smaller hippocampi if they carry the risk allele and experienced severe CA.
Prediction of serotonin transporter promoter polymorphism genotypes from single nucleotide polymorphism arrays using machine learning methods.	The serotonin transporter gene (SLC6A4) and its promoter (5-HTTLPR) polymorphism have been the focus of a large number of association studies of behavioral traits and psychiatric disorders. However, large-scale genotyping of the polymorphism has been very difficult. We report the development and validation of a 5-HTTLPR genotype prediction model.
Suicide ideators and attempters with schizophrenia--the role of 5-HTTLPR, rs25531, and 5-HTT VNTR Intron 2 variants.	To examine the role of 5-HTTLPR, rs25531 and 5-HTT VNTR Intron 2 variants in subjects with psychotic disorders manifesting suicide ideation and behaviour.
Proteomic analysis of wild-type and mutant huntingtin-associated proteins in mouse brains identifies unique interactions and involvement in protein synthesis.	Huntington disease is a neurodegenerative disorder caused by a CAG repeat amplification in the gene huntingtin (HTT) that is reflected by a polyglutamine expansion in the Htt protein. Nearly 20 years of research have uncovered roles for Htt in a wide range of cellular processes, and many of these discoveries stemmed from the identification of Htt-interacting proteins. However, no study has employed an impartial and comprehensive strategy to identify proteins that differentially associate with full-length wild-type and mutant Htt in brain tissue, the most relevant sample source to the disease condition. We analyzed Htt affinity-purified complexes from wild-type and HTT mutant juvenile mouse brain from two different biochemical fractions by tandem mass spectrometry. We compared variations in protein spectral counts relative to Htt to identify those proteins that are the most significantly contrasted between wild-type and mutant Htt purifications. Previously unreported Htt interactions with Myo5a, Prkra (PACT), Gnb2l1 (RACK1), Rps6, and Syt2 were confirmed by Western blot analysis. Gene Ontology analysis of these and other Htt-associated proteins revealed a statistically significant enrichment for proteins involved in translation among other categories. Furthermore, Htt co-sedimentation with polysomes in cytoplasmic mouse brain extracts is dependent upon the presence of intact ribosomes. Finally, wild-type or mutant Htt overexpression inhibits cap-dependent translation of a reporter mRNA in an in vitro system. Cumulatively, these data support a new role for Htt in translation and provide impetus for further study into the link between protein synthesis and Huntington disease pathogenesis.
Combination of polymorphic variants in serotonin transporter and monoamine oxidase-A genes may influence the risk for early-onset alcoholism.	The combinatory effect of polymorphisms in serotonin transporter and monoamine oxidase-A genes on the aetiopathogenesis of alcoholism was investigated in a sample of 714 individuals. Increased frequency of subjects having three 'suspected' genotypes (5-HTTLPR-LL, STin2-1010 and MAO-A 3-repeat allele) was found among type-2 alcoholic patients (P=0.0189). Results highlight serotonergic/genetic contribution to early-onset alcoholism.
The genetic basis of addictive disorders.	Addictions are common, chronic, and relapsing diseases that develop through a multistep process. The impact of addictions on morbidity and mortality is high worldwide. Twin studies have shown that the heritability of addictions ranges from 0.39 (hallucinogens) to 0.72 (cocaine). Twin studies indicate that genes influence each stage from initiation to addiction, although the genetic determinants may differ. Addictions are by definition the result of gene  environment interaction. These disorders, which are in part volitional, in part inborn, and in part determined by environmental experience, pose the full range of medical, genetic, policy, and moral challenges. Gene discovery is being facilitated by a variety of powerful approaches, but is in its infancy. It is not surprising that the genes discovered so far act in a variety of ways: via altered metabolism of drug (the alcohol and nicotine metabolic gene variants), via altered function of a drug receptor (the nicotinic receptor, which may alter affinity for nicotine but as discussed may also alter circuitry of reward), and via general mechanisms of addiction (genes such as monoamine oxidase A and the serotonin transporter that modulate stress response, emotion, and behavioral control). Addiction medicine today benefits from genetic studies that buttress the case for a neurobiologic origin of addictive behavior, and some general information on familially transmitted propensity that can be used to guide prevention. A few well-validated, specific predictors such as OPRM1, ADH1B, ALDH2, CHRNA5, and CYP26 have been identified and can provide some specific guidance, for example, to understand alcohol-related flushing and upper GI cancer risk (ADH1B and AKLDH2), variation in nicotine metabolism (CYP26), and, potentially, naltrexone treatment response (OPRM1). However, the genetic predictors available are few in number and account for only a small portion of the genetic variance in liability, and have not been integrated into clinical nosology or care.
Serotonin transporter gene as a predictor of stress generation in depression.	Research suggests that a polymorphism in the promoter region of the serotonin transporter promoter (5-HTTLPR) interacts with stressful life events to predict depressive onset, with short (s) allele presence associated with greater susceptibility to stressors. However, this research has not considered that depressed individuals often actively generate stressful contexts. Furthermore, little is known about the genetic basis of stress generation. The current study explored the role of 5-HTTLPR genotype in stress generation in a longitudinal sample of 381 adolescents, oversampled for maternal depression, assessed at ages 15 and 20. Genotype did not correlate directly with number or ratings of stressful life events. However, 5-HTTLPR genotype interacted with depression at age 15 to predict dependent stressful events at age 20. Specifically, participants with one or more s alleles showed a stronger association between age 15 depression and age 20 dependent and interpersonal events than long allele homozygotes. Results imply that the 5-HTTLPR genotype predicts reciprocal associations between stress and depression, indicating a more complex relationship between stress, depression, and their genetic underpinnings than previously suggested.
Catecholamine-related gene expression in blood correlates with tic severity in tourette syndrome.	Tourette syndrome (TS) is a heritable disorder characterized by tics that are decreased in some patients by treatment with alpha adrenergic agonists and dopamine receptor blockers. Thus, this study examines the relationship between catecholamine gene expression in blood and tic severity. TS diagnosis was confirmed using Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM)-IV criteria and tic severity measured using the Yale Global Tic Severity Scale (YGTSS) for 26 un-medicated subjects with TS. Whole blood was collected and Ribonucleic acid (RNA) processed on Affymetrix Human Exon 1.0 ST arrays. An Analysis of Covariance (ANCOVA) identified 3627 genes correlated with tic severity (p<0.05). Searches of Medical Subject Headings, Gene Ontology, Allen Mouse Brain Atlas, and PubMed determined genes associated with catecholamines and located in the basal ganglia. Using GeneCards, PubMed, and manual curation, seven genes associated with TS were further examined: DRD2, HRH3, MAOB, BDNF, SNAP25, SLC6A4, and SLC22A3. These genes are highly associated with TS and have also been implicated in other movement disorders, Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), and Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD). Correlation of gene expression in peripheral blood with tic severity may allow inferences about catecholamine pathway dysfunction in TS subjects. Findings built on previous work suggest that at least some genes expressed peripherally are relevant for central nervous system (CNS) pathology in the brain of individuals with TS.
Short sleep as an environmental exposure: a preliminary study associating 5-HTTLPR genotype to self-reported sleep duration and depressed mood in first-year university students.	This study examined whether the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism in the SLC6A4 gene is associated with self-reported symptoms of depressed mood in first-year university students with a persistent pattern of short sleep.
Distribution of serotonin transporter 5-HTTLPR gene polymorphism in population of the North-West of Russia]	Genetic polymorphism of the promotor zone of the gene of serotonin transporter (5HTT) is related to adaptive ability of humans, along with ability of conducting emotional control. Consequently, 5HTT polymorhisms form a constructive model of enhanced resistance to psychoemotional strain in aged humans. The paper is dedicated to tracing back relations between 5HTT polymorphic variants, and psychological characteristics of the long-livers of the North-Western Russia, as well as the geriatric ones.
Effects of monocrotophos pesticide on serotonin metabolism during early development in the sea urchin, Hemicentrotus pulcherrimus.	Organophosphate pesticides can interfere with the serotonergic nervous system and potentially lead to malformations and behavioral abnormalities during early development in sea urchin. To investigate the mechanism by which monocrotophos (MCP) pesticide disrupts the serotonergic nervous system, we evaluated its effects on serotonin metabolism. Fertilized embryos of sea urchin were incubated with 40% MCP pesticide at nominal concentrations of 0.01, 0.10 and 1.00mg/L, and the effects on tryptophan hydroxylase of Hemicentrotus pulcherrimus (HpTPH), serotonin reuptake transporter (SERT), monoamine oxidase (MAO), and serotonin levels were investigated. The results indicated that MCP pesticide disturbed the baseline pattern of HpTPH and SERT mRNA expression and MAO activity during early development in H. pulcherrimus. When serotonin should be quickly metabolized at 36-hpf stage, HpTPH and SERT expression was decreased and MAO activity was induced by MCP pesticide, leading to the impairment of serotonergic synaptic activity. But when serotonin should be metabolized at low levels during the other six stages, MCP pesticide induced HpTPH and SERT expression, resulting in the improvement of serotonergic synaptic activity. We concluded that this metabolic disturbance is one of the major mechanisms by which MCP pesticides affect the serotonergic nervous system and potentially contribute to various developmental abnormalities.
Association between serotonin transporter promoter polymorphisms and psychological distress in a diabetic population.	Investigations into serotonin transporter and anxiety and depression have shown an association between stress, depression onset and genotype. We investigated the relationship between 5-HTTLPR genotype and depression and anxiety in a population with diabetes mellitus, a condition associated with high rates of stress and depression. Participants were classified according to 'S' and 'L' alleles as well as the modification of the single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) rs25531. The 5-HTTLPR low-expression genotype group (S or L(G) allele carriers) had significantly higher psychological distress (K10) scores (N=234, P=0.047). Subsequent analysis revealed that the effect of genotype was related to anxiety symptoms rather than depression symptoms. Furthermore, the main effect of genotype was not observed when the modification of the SNP polymorphism was not taken into account. Findings suggest that 5-HTTLPR/rs25531 genotype is associated with psychological distress in a sample of subjects with diabetes.
ABCB1 polymorphism predicts escitalopram dose needed for remission in major depression.	The ATP-binding cassette family of transporter proteins, subfamily B (MDR/TAP), member 1 (ABCB1) (P-glycoprotein) transporter is a key component of the blood-brain barrier. Many antidepressants are subject to ABCB1 efflux. Functional polymorphisms of ABCB1 may influence central nervous system bioavailability of antidepressants subject to efflux. Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) at rs1045642 (C3435T) of ABCB1 have been associated with efflux pump efficiency. This may explain part of the interindividual variation in antidepressant dose needed to remit. Individuals (N=113) with DSM-IV (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition) major depressive disorder (MDD) were treated with escitalopram (ESC) or venlafaxine (VEN) over 8 weeks. The17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale was assessed serially, blind to genotype. SNP rs1045642 of ABCB1 along with two SNPs previously reported to be in linkage disequilibrium with it (rs2032582 and rs1128503) were genotyped. Demographic features, clinical features, P450 metabolizer status and 5-HTTLPR (serotonin-transporter-linked promoter region) genotype were controlled for. Carriers of rs1045642 TT needed on average 11mg of ESC to remit, whereas TC and CC carriers required 24 and 19mg, respectively (P=0.0001). This equates to a 2.0- (95% confidence interval=1.5-3.4; P<0.001) fold greater ESC dose needed to remit for C carriers compared with TT carriers at rs1045642. Of VEN-treated subjects carrying TT genotype at rs1045642, 73.3% remitted compared with 12.5% for CC genotype (odds ratio=6.69; 95% confidence interval=1.72-25.9, P=0.006). These data suggest that antidepressant dose needed to remit can be predicted by an ABCB1 SNP. This has the potential clinical translation implications for dose selection and remission from MDD.
5-HTTLPR and early childhood adversities moderate cognitive and emotional processing in adolescence.	Polymorphisms in the promoter region of the serotonin transporter gene (5-HTTLPR) and exposure to early childhood adversities (CA) are independently associated with individual differences in cognitive and emotional processing. Whether these two factors interact to influence cognitive and emotional processing is not known.
Increased serotonin transporter gene (SERT) DNA methylation is associated with bullying victimization and blunted cortisol response to stress in childhood: a longitudinal study of discordant monozygotic twins.	Childhood adverse experiences are known to induce persistent changes in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis reactivity to stress. However, the mechanisms by which these experiences shape the neuroendocrine response to stress remain unclear. Method We tested whether bullying victimization influenced serotonin transporter gene (SERT) DNA methylation using a discordant monozygotic (MZ) twin design. A subsample of 28 MZ twin pairs discordant for bullying victimization, with data on cortisol and DNA methylation, were identified in the Environmental Risk (E-Risk) Longitudinal Twin Study, a nationally representative 1994-1995 cohort of families with twins.
Stress produces aversion and potentiates cocaine reward by releasing endogenous dynorphins in the ventral striatum to locally stimulate serotonin reuptake.	Activation of the dynorphin/-opioid receptor (KOR) system by repeated stress exposure or agonist treatment produces place aversion, social avoidance, and reinstatement of extinguished cocaine place preference behaviors by stimulation of p38 MAPK, which subsequently causes the translocation of the serotonin transporter (SERT, SLC6A4) to the synaptic terminals of serotonergic neurons. In the present study we extend those findings by showing that stress-induced potentiation of cocaine conditioned place preference occurred by a similar mechanism. In addition, SERT knock-out mice did not show KOR-mediated aversion, and selective reexpression of SERT by lentiviral injection into the dorsal raphe restored the prodepressive effects of KOR activation. Kinetic analysis of several neurotransporters demonstrated that repeated swim stress exposure selectively increased the V(max) but not K(m) of SERT without affecting dopamine transport or the high-capacity, low-affinity transporters. Although the serotonergic neurons in the dorsal raphe project throughout the forebrain, a significant stress-induced increase in cell-surface SERT expression was only evident in the ventral striatum, and not in the dorsal striatum, hippocampus, prefrontal cortex, amygdala, or dorsal raphe. Stereotaxic microinjections of the long-lasting KOR antagonist norbinaltorphimine demonstrated that local KOR activation in the nucleus accumbens, but not dorsal raphe, mediated this stress-induced increase in ventral striatal surface SERT expression. Together, these results support the hypothesis that stress-induced activation of the dynorphin/KOR system produces a transient increase in serotonin transport locally in the ventral striatum that may underlie some of the adverse consequences of stress exposure, including the potentiation of the rewarding effects of cocaine.
PDE10 inhibition increases GluA1 and CREB phosphorylation and improves spatial and recognition memories in a Huntington's disease mouse model.	Huntington's disease (HD) causes motor disturbances, preceded by cognitive impairment, in patients and mouse models. We showed that increased hippocampal cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) signaling disrupts recognition and spatial memories in R6 HD mouse models. However, unchanged levels of hippocampal phosphorylated (p) cAMP-responsive element-binding protein (CREB) suggested unaltered nuclear PKA activity in R6 mice. Here, we extend this finding by showing that nuclear pPKA catalytic subunit (Thr197) and pPKA substrate levels were unaltered in the hippocampus of R6/1 mice. Phosphodiesterases (PDEs) play an important role in the regulation of PKA activity. PDE10A, a cAMP/cGMP dual-substrate PDE, was reported to be restricted to the nuclear region in nonstriatal neurons. Using cell fractionation we confirmed that PDE10A was enriched in nuclear fractions, both in wild-type and R6/1 mice hippocampus, without differences in its levels or intracellular distribution between genotypes. We next investigated whether inhibition of PDE10 with papaverine could improve cognitive function in HD mice. Papaverine treatment improved spatial and object recognition memories in R6/1 mice, and significantly increased pGluA1 and pCREB levels in R6/1 mice hippocampus. Papaverine likely acted through the activation of the PKA pathway as the phosphorylation level of distinct cGMP-dependent kinase (cGK) substrates was not modified in either genotype. Moreover, hippocampal cAMP, but not cGMP, levels were increased after acute papaverine injection. Our results show that inhibition of PDE10 improves cognition in R6 mice, at least in part through increased GluA1 and CREB phosphorylation. Thus, PDE10 might be a good therapeutic target to improve cognitive impairment in HD.
S100A expression and interleukin-10 polymorphisms are associated with ulcerative colitis and diarrhea predominant irritable bowel syndrome.	Both ulcerative colitis (UC) and diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS-D) are associated with alterations in enteric serotonin (5-HT) signaling.
Impact of 5-HTTLPR and BDNF polymorphisms on response to sertraline versus transcranial direct current stimulation: implications for the serotonergic system.	Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) has been intensively investigated as a non-pharmacological treatment for major depressive disorder (MDD). While many studies have examined the genetic predictors of antidepressant medications, this issue remains to be investigated for tDCS. In the current study, we evaluated whether the BDNF Val66Met and the 5-HTT (5-HTTLPR) polymorphisms were associated with tDCS antidepressant response. We used data from a factorial trial that evaluated the efficacy of tDCS and sertraline and enrolled 120 moderate-to-severe, antidepressant-free participants. In the present study, we used analyses of variance to evaluate whether the BDNF (Val/Val vs. Met-carries) and 5-HTTLPR alleles (long/long vs short-carriers) were predictors of tDCS (active/sham) and sertraline (sertraline/placebo) response. Analyses were conducted on the polymorphisms separately and also on their interaction. Genotype frequencies were in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. BDNF polymorphism was not associated with treatment response. We found that 5-HTTLPR predicted tDCS effects as long/long homozygotes displayed a larger improvement comparing active vs. sham tDCS, while short-allele carriers did not. A dose-response relationship between active-sham differences with the long allele was also suggested. These results strengthen the role of the serotonergic system in the tDCS antidepressant effects and expand previous findings that reported that tDCS mechanisms of action partially involve serotonergic receptors. Therefore, we hypothesize that tDCS is a neuromodulation technique that acts over depression through the modulation of serotonergic system and that tDCS "top-down" antidepressant effects might not be optimal in brain networks with a hyperactive amygdala inducing bottom-up effects, such as occurs in short-carriers. 
Association of serotonin transporter polymorphisms with responsiveness to adrenocorticotropic hormone in infantile spasm.	Serotonin or 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) is an important neurotransmitter in the central nervous system. The serotonin transporter (5-HTT) is a key regulator of the level of serotonergic neurotransmission. In the present study, the contribution of 5-HTT polymorphisms to the risk of infantile spasm (IS) and the responsiveness to adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) were investigated.
Serotonin gene variants are unlikely to play a significant role in the pathogenesis of the sudden infant death syndrome.	Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) is defined as the sudden and unexpected death of an infant less than 12 months of age that is related to a sleep period and remains unexplained after a complete autopsy, death scene investigation, and review of the clinical history. The cause of SIDS is unknown, but a major subset of SIDS is proposed to result from abnormalities in serotonin (5-HT) and related neurotransmitters in regions of the lower brainstem that result in failure of protective homeostatic responses to life-threatening challenges during sleep. Multiple studies have implicated gene variants that affect different elements of 5-HT neurotransmission in the pathogenesis of these abnormalities in SIDS. In this review I discuss the data from these studies together with some new data correlating genotype with brainstem 5-HT neurochemistry in the same SIDS cases and conclude that these gene variants are unlikely to play a major role in the pathogenesis of the medullary 5-HT abnormalities observed in SIDS. 
Associations between serotonin transporter gene polymorphisms and heat pain perception in adults with chronic pain.	The triallelic serotonin transporter gene linked polymorphic region (5-HTTLPR) has been associated with alterations in thermal pain perception. The primary aim of this study was to investigate the associations between heat pain (HP) perception and the triallelic 5-HTTLPR in a large cohort of adults with chronic pain.
How and why does the 5-HTTLPR gene moderate associations between maternal unresponsiveness and children's disruptive problems?	This study tested the 5-HTTLPR gene as a moderator in the relation between maternal unresponsiveness and child externalizing symptoms in a disadvantaged, predominantly Black sample of two hundred and one 2-year-old children and their mothers. Using a multimethod, prospective design, structural equation model analyses indicated that maternal unresponsiveness significantly predicted increases in externalizing symptoms 2years later only for children possessing the LL genotype. Moderation was expressed in a "for better" or "for worse" form hypothesized in differential susceptibility theory. In examining why the risk posed by maternal unresponsiveness differed across the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism, mediated moderation analyses showed that children's angry reactivity to maternal negativity partly accounted for the greater susceptibility of homozygous L carriers to variations in maternal unresponsiveness. 
Children's risk and resilience following a natural disaster: genetic vulnerability, posttraumatic stress, and depression.	We examined children's risk and resilience following a natural disaster, evaluating the role of stress, social support, and two genetic markers: the short allele of the serotonin transporter gene (5-HTTLPR), and the met allele of the Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF).Under high levels of hurricane exposure or hurricane-related stressors, we expected children displaying the markers would report greater symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and depression than children without these markers. Social support was explored as an additional moderating variable.
5-HTT deficiency affects neuroplasticity and increases stress sensitivity resulting in altered spatial learning performance in the Morris water maze but not in the Barnes maze.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether spatial hippocampus-dependent learning is affected by the serotonergic system and stress. Therefore, 5-HTT knockout (-/-), heterozygous (+/-) and wildtype (+/+) mice were subjected to the Barnes maze (BM) and the Morris water maze (WM), the latter being discussed as more aversive. Additionally, immediate early gene (IEG) expression, hippocampal adult neurogenesis (aN), and blood plasma corticosterone were analyzed. While the performance of 5-HTT-/- mice in the BM was undistinguishable from both other genotypes, they performed worse in the WM. However, in the course of the repeated WM trials 5-HTT-/- mice advanced to wildtype level. The experience of a single trial of either the WM or the BM resulted in increased plasma corticosterone levels in all genotypes. After several trials 5-HTT-/- mice exhibited higher corticosterone concentrations compared with both other genotypes in both tests. Corticosterone levels were highest in 5-HTT-/- mice tested in the WM indicating greater aversiveness of the WM and a greater stress sensitivity of 5-HTT deficient mice. Quantitative immunohistochemistry in the hippocampus revealed increased cell counts positive for the IEG products cFos and Arc as well as for proliferation marker Ki67 and immature neuron marker NeuroD in 5-HTT-/- mice compared to 5-HTT+/+ mice, irrespective of the test. Most differences were found in the suprapyramidal blade of the dentate gyrus of the septal hippocampus. Ki67-immunohistochemistry revealed a genotype x environment interaction with 5-HTT genotype differences in nave controls and WM experience exclusively yielding more Ki67-positive cells in 5-HTT+/+ mice. Moreover, in 5-HTT-/- mice we demonstrate that learning performance correlates with the extent of aN. Overall, higher baseline IEG expression and increased an in the hippocampus of 5-HTT-/- mice together with increased stress sensitivity may constitute the neurobiological correlate of raised alertness, possibly impeding optimal learning performance in the more stressful WM. 
Loss aversion and 5HTT gene variants in adolescent anxiety.	Loss aversion, a well-documented behavioral phenomenon, characterizes decisions under risk in adult populations. As such, loss aversion may provide a reliable measure of risky behavior. Surprisingly, little is known about loss aversion in adolescents, a group who manifests risk-taking behavior, or in anxiety disorders, which are associated with risk-avoidance. Finally, loss aversion is expected to be modulated by genotype, particularly the serotonin transporter (SERT) gene variant, based on its role in anxiety and impulsivity. This genetic modulation may also differ between anxious and healthy adolescents, given their distinct propensities for risk taking. The present work examines the modulation of loss aversion, an index of risk-taking, and reaction-time to decision, an index of impulsivity, by the serotonin-transporter-gene-linked polymorphisms (5HTTLPR) in healthy and clinically anxious adolescents. Findings show that loss aversion (1) does manifest in adolescents, (2) does not differ between healthy and clinically anxious participants, and (3), when stratified by SERT genotype, identifies a subset of anxious adolescents who are high SERT-expressers, and show excessively low loss-aversion and high impulsivity. This last finding may serve as preliminary evidence for 5HTTLPR as a risk factor for the development of comorbid disorders associated with risk-taking and impulsivity in clinically anxious adolescents. 
Genetic variation in the monoamine oxidase A and serotonin transporter genes in sudden infant death syndrome.	The purpose of this study was to investigate common polymorphisms in the genes encoding monoamine oxidase A (MAOA) and serotonin transporter (5-HTT) in Norwegian cases of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). This was done to further elucidate the role of genetic variation in these genes and SIDS.
SLC6A4 polymorphism, population genetics, and psychiatric traits.	5HTTLPR, which is the trivial name for a variable number of tandem repeats (VNTR) polymorphism mapped to the 5' region of the SLC6A4 (serotonin transporter protein) gene, is one of the most studied variants with respect to psychiatric traits. It is also widely studied in the context of intermediate phenotypes such as neuroimaging measures, and gene-by-environment interaction, the latter generally in the context of affective and anxiety phenotypes. In this article, the author discusses the importance of the variant in the context of a population genetics article published in Human Genetics sixteen years ago. 
Serotonin-1A receptor CC genotype is associated with persistent depression related to interferon-alpha in hepatitis C patients.	The aim of this study is to investigate the development of depression during interferon-alpha (IFN-) therapy and the variations in the expression of the serotonin receptor (5-HTR) and transporter (5-HTT) in hepatitis C patients.
Monitoring candidate gene expression variations before, during and after a first major depressive episode in a 51-year-old man.	Although psychiatric disorders are frequently characterized by clinical heterogeneity, high recurrence, and unpredictable prognosis, studies of mRNA expression variations in blood cells from psychiatric patients constitute a promising avenue to establish clinical biomarkers. We report here, to our knowledge, the first genetic monitoring of a major depressive episode (MDE).
Differential influence of the 5-HTTLPR genotype, neuroticism and real-life acute stress exposure on appetite and energy intake.	Stress or negative mood often promotes energy intake and overeating. Since the serotonin transporter-linked polymorphic region (5-HTTLPR) is found to mediate stress vulnerability as well as to influence energy intake, this gene may also influence the negative effects of stress exposure on overeating. Moreover, since stress proneness also reflects cognitive stress vulnerability - as often defined by trait neuroticism - this may additionally predispose for stress-induced overeating. In the present study it was investigated whether the 5-HTTLPR genotype interacted with neuroticism on changes in mood, appetite and energy intake following exposure to a real-life academic examination stressor. In a balanced-experimental design, homozygous S-allele and L-allele carriers (N=94) with the lowest and highest neuroticism scores were selected from a large database of 5-HTTLPR genotyped students. Mood, appetite and energy intake were measured before and after a 2-hour academic examination and compared with a control day. Examination influenced appetite for particular sweet snacks differently depending on 5-HTTLPR genotype and neuroticism. S/S compared with L/L subjects reported greater examination stress, and this was accompanied by a more profound post-stress increase in appetite for sweet snacks. Data also revealed a 5-HTTLPR genotype by trait neuroticism interaction on energy intake, regardless of examination. These results consolidate previous assumptions of 5-HTTLPR involvement in stress vulnerability and suggest 5-HTTLPR and neuroticism may influence stress-induced overeating depending on the type of food available. These findings furthermore link previous findings of increased risk for weight gain in S/S-allele carriers, particularly with high scores on trait neuroticism, to increased energy intake. 
The effect of the serotonin transporter 5-HTTLPR polymorphism on the recognition of facial emotions in schizophrenia]	The 5-HTTLPR SLC6A4 and catechol-o-methyltransferase (COMT) Val158Met polymorphisms are reported to be associated with processing of facial expressions in general population. Impaired recognition of facial expressions that is characteristic of schizophrenia negatively impacts on the social adaptation of the patients. To search for molecular mechanisms of this deficit, we studied main and epistatic effects of 5-HTTLPR and Val158Met polymorphisms on the facial emotion recognition in patients with schizophrenia (n=299) and healthy controls (n=232). The 5-HTTLPR polymorphism was associated with the emotion recognition in patients. The ll-homozygotes recognized facial emotions significantly better compared to those with an s-allele (F=8.00; p=0.005). Although the recognition of facial emotions was correlated with negative symptoms, verbal learning and trait anxiety, these variables did not significantly modified the association. In both groups, no effect of the COMT on the recognition of facial emotions was found. 
Impaired fear extinction as displayed by serotonin transporter knockout rats housed in open cages is disrupted by IVC cage housing.	Anxiety disorders are influenced by both environmental and genetic factors. A well-known example for gene x environment interactions in psychiatry is the low activity (s) allelic variant of the serotonin transporter (5-HTT) promoter polymorphism (5-HTTLPR) that in the context of stress increases risk for depression and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Previously, we observed robust anxiety-related phenotypes, such as an impairment in fear extinction, in 5-HTT knockout (5-HTT-/-) versus wild-type (5-HTT+/+) rats housed in open cages. Recently, housing conditions were changed from open cages to individually ventilated cages (IVC), which are associated with a high ventilation fold and noise. This switch in housing conditions prompted an unplanned 5-HTT gene x environment interaction study in our rats. The current study shows that lifetime stress by means of IVC cage housing abolished genotype differences in fear extinction between 5-HTT-/- and 5-HTT+/+ rats. Although this effect was not attributed specifically to either the 5-HTT+/+ or the 5-HTT-/- genotype, the findings are in agreement with the modulatory role of serotonin in the processing of environmental stimuli. Our findings also underline the possibility that housing conditions confound the interpretation of anxiety-related behaviours in rodents. 
Treatment-resistant schizophrenia and DAT and SERT polymorphisms.	One fifth to one third of all patients diagnosed with schizophrenia are resistant to drug treatment, which makes it a major clinical challenge. Genetic studies have focused on the association between treatment resistant schizophrenia (TRS) and a number of candidate genes, including serotonin and dopamine system genes. We explored associations between carefully characterized TRS and DAT-VNTR, SERT-PR and SERT-in2 polymorphisms. There were 173 patients enrolled in the study that were clinically evaluated using Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale and Clinical Global Impressions Scales and divided into two groups based on treatment resistance (92 patients in TRS group). Patients with a combination of SERT-in2 ll and DAT 9/10, 9/11, 9/9 and 6/6 genotypes were more likely to have TRS, compared to those with 10/10 or 10/12 genotype (OR=5.1; 95% CI=1.6-16.8). In the group of patients with DAT 10/10 or 10/12 genotype, those who also shared SERT-in2 ls or ss genotype were more likely to have TRS, compared to ll genotype carriers (OR=2.7; 95% CI=1.0-7.0). The model in which interaction between SERT-in2 and DAT polymorphisms is linked to TRS can possibly explain contradictory previous results regarding role of DAT and SERT in TRS, but further research is needed. 
Associations between the SS variant of 5-HTTLPR and PTSD among adults with histories of childhood emotional abuse: results from two African American independent samples.	Prior studies have found that the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism in the promoter region of the serotonin transporter gene (SLC6A4) interacts with stressful life events to increase general risk for PTSD, but this association has not extended to African American samples. Further, little is known about the effects of this interaction on specific PTSD symptom clusters, despite indications that clusters may have different biological substrates. The current study examined the interaction between exposure to childhood emotional abuse and 5-HTTLPR genotype on risk for PTSD symptom severity and severity of specific PTSD symptom clusters in two African American samples.
The association of 5-HT2A, 5-HTT, and LEPR polymorphisms with obstructive sleep apnea syndrome: a systematic review and meta-analysis.	A consensus has not been reached regarding the association of several different gene polymorphisms and susceptibility to obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS). We performed a meta-analysis to better evaluate the associations between 5-HT2A, 5-HTT, and LEPR polymorphisms, and OSAS.
Genetic associations with intimate partner violence in a sample of hazardous drinking men in batterer intervention programs.	The etiology of intimate partner violence (IPV) is multifactorial. However, etiological theories of IPV have rarely included potential genetic factors. The purpose of the present study was to examine whether a cumulative genetic score (CGS) containing the monoamine oxidase A (MAOA) and the human serotonin transporter gene linked polymorphism (5-HTTLPR) was associated with IPV perpetration after accounting for the effects of alcohol problems, drug problems, age, and length of relationship. We obtained DNA from 97 men in batterer intervention programs in the state of Rhode Island. In the full sample, the CGS was significantly associated with physical and psychological aggression and injuries caused to one's partner, even after controlling for the effects of alcohol problems, drug problems, age, and length of relationship. Two of the men in the sample likely had Klinefelter's syndrome, and analyses were repeated excluding these two individuals, leading to similar results. The implications of the genetic findings for the etiology and treatment of IPV among men in batterer intervention programs are briefly discussed. 
Mice with compromised 5-HTT function lack phosphotyrosine-mediated inhibitory control over prefrontal 5-HT responses.	The activity of the prefrontal cortex is essential for normal emotional processing and is strongly modulated by serotonin (5-HT). Yet, little is known about the regulatory mechanisms that control the activity of the prefrontal 5-HT receptors. Here, we found and characterized a deregulation of prefrontal 5-HT receptor electrophysiological signaling in mouse models of disrupted serotonin transporter (5-HTT) function, a risk factor for emotional and cognitive disturbances. We identified a novel tyrosine kinase-dependent mechanism that regulates 5-HT-mediated inhibition of prefrontal pyramidal neurons. We report that mice with compromised 5-HTT, resulting from either genetic deletion or brief treatment with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors during development, have amplified 5-HT1A receptor-mediated currents in adulthood. These greater inhibitory effects of 5-HT are accompanied by enhanced downstream coupling to Kir3 channels. Notably, in normal wild-type mice, we found that these larger 5-HT1A responses can be mimicked through inhibition of Src family tyrosine kinases. By comparison, in our 5-HTT mouse models, the larger 5-HT1A responses were rapidly reduced through inhibition of tyrosine phosphatases. Our findings implicate tyrosine phosphorylation in regulating the electrophysiological effects of prefrontal 5-HT1A receptors with implications for neuropsychiatric diseases associated with emotional dysfunction, such as anxiety and depressive disorders. 
Expression of genes encoding serotonin receptors and SERT in various brain structures of stressed rats after chronic exposure to ultrasound.	The expression of genes encoding serotonin receptors and serotonin transporter in emotiogenic structures of rat brain was shown to change after chronic stress with ultrasonic waves of varying frequencies. A QPCR-RT study revealed the increased expression of genes for SERT and 5-HT1B receptor and decreased expression of the 5-HT2A receptor in the prefrontal cortex of rats after chronic exposure to ultrasonic waves of varying frequencies. Gene expression was increased for SERT, but decreased for 5-HT1B, 5-HT2A, and 5-HT2B receptors in the midbrain of animals. The hippocampus was characterized by an increased expression of genes encoding SERT and 5-HT1A, 5-HT2A, and 5-HT2B receptors. Our results indicate that the exposure to this type of stress is followed by dysregulation in the serotoninergic system of the brain. 
