Pharmacological, pharmacokinetic and clinical profile of eletriptan (Relpax), a new triptan for migraine]	Eletriptan (Relpax) is a new anti-migraine medication commonly referred to as triptans. Eletriptan is considered to reduce neuronal transmission of pain by causing vasoconstriction of dilated cranial vessels and inhibiting the release of neuropeptides from trigeminal nerves via activation of the 5-HT(1B/1D) receptors. Eletriptan showed selectivity, high affinities, and potent agonistic activity to human 5-HT(1B/1D) receptors. It selectively constricted the cranial artery relative to the coronary artery of the anesthetized dog and the isolated human specimen. The affinity to the 5-HT(1B/1D) receptors and the selectivity for the cranial artery over the coronary artery of eletriptan are higher than those of sumatriptan. Eletriptan inhibited the trigeminal nerve mediated inflammation in the rat dura mater with equal potency and efficacy to sumatriptan. Orally taken eletriptan was rapidly absorbed with good bioavailability. In clinical trials, eletriptan improved the headache response rate with rapid onset, and reduced headache recurrence. The functional impairments as well as associated symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, and photophobia were also improved by eletriptan. Eletriptan showed stable efficacy in chronic use against multiple attacks with no increase in adverse events. Eletriptan was well tolerated in patients and most adverse events were mild-to-moderate in nature.
Metabolism of the newest antidepressants: comparisons with related predecessors.	The need for better acute and long-term treatment for depressive disorders has led to the development of new agents, including escitalopram, duloxetine (Boehringer Ingelheim Corp/Eli Lilly & Co/Eli Lilly Japan KK/Shionogi & Co Ltd) and gepirone. These drugs undergo extensive biotransformation, with cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoforms playing a major role. Escitalopram is biotransformed by CYP2C19, CYP3A4 and CYP2D6; partly extrapolating from studies of citalopram, polymorphism at CYP2C19 and drug interactions at CYP2D6 may be clinically significant. Duloxetine is metabolized by CYP2D6 and CYP1A2, with moderate potential for interactions at CYP2D6. The metabolism of gepirone involves CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent CYP2D6.
Cutaneous allodynia and migraine: another view.	The paradigm of early treatment of the migraine attack at mild pain intensity has become one alternative to circumventing the problem of compromised oral absorption of symptomatic drugs due to migraine-induced gastrointestinal dysmotility. Early treatment also has been proposed to be advantageous because most migraineurs could be less responsive to delayed treatment, owing to the development of central sensitization of the trigeminal pain transmission. Ranking the underlying principles, it seems that the improved response to an oral triptan formulation at mild migraine symptom intensity has more to do with less impaired gastrointestinal absorption in the early stage of the attack than decreasing the time and preventing chances for central sensitization and development of cutaneous allodynia. Furthermore, parenteral administration of a triptan is always more likely to provide relief of symptoms than conventional tablets, even when it is used later in the course of the migraine attack. Individually tailored use of the available triptan formulations will increase, without any doubt, the within-migraineur consistency of response. It also will reduce the overall proportion of migraine attacks or migraineurs not responding to triptan treatment. Notwithstanding, the recommendation of early treatment during the migraine attack when the pain is mild remains valid.
m-Chlorophenylpiperazine in patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder: absence of symptom exacerbation.	Oral administration of the serotonin mixed agonist-antagonist meta-chlorophenylpiperazine (mCPP) at 0.5 mg/kg has been reported to exacerbate symptoms of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). In an attempt to replicate these findings, double-blind behavioral and biochemical measures were obtained in 12 drug-free patients (9 men, 3 women) with OCD who received either oral mCPP (0.5 mg/kg), intravenous (IV) mCPP (0.1 mg/kg over 20 min), or placebo in random order on 3 separate test days. Neither oral nor IV mCPP had significant effects on the severity of OCD symptoms. The magnitude of the mCPP-induced plasma prolactin response and plasma mCPP levels were similar to those values obtained in other published studies in which mCPP exacerbated OCD symptoms. In contrast, both oral and IV mCPP were associated with significant increases in ratings of anxiety. These findings suggest that mCPP, whether administered by an oral or intravenous route (as a slow infusion), may not be a reliable probe for investigating obsessive-compulsive symptoms. It is possible, however, that more reproducible behavioral findings might be obtained by identifying susceptible subgroups of OCD or by including a behavioral exposure condition.
Haloperidol and clozapine treatment and their effect on M-chlorophenylpiperazine-mediated responses in schizophrenia: implications for the mechanism of action of clozapine.	Since clozapine is, in contrast to conventional neuroleptics, effective in treatment refractory schizophrenic patients its mechanism of action may be different from that of typical neuroleptics. Clozapine has been shown to display the highest binding affinity of all neuroleptics to one of the serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5HT) receptor subtypes, i.e., the 5HT1c receptor. Furthermore, clozapine, in contrast to conventional neuroleptics, blocks the effect of 5HT agonists on ACTH and corticosterone release in animals. This study hypothesized that clozapine, but not haloperidol would block ACTH and prolactin release induced by the 5HT agonist, m-chlorophenylpiperazine (MCPP). MCPP (0.35 mg/kg PO) was administered after a 3-week drug-free period, after 5 weeks of haloperidol treatment (20 mg/day) and finally after 5 weeks of clozapine treatment (> 400 mg/day) in ten male schizophrenic patients. Clozapine, but not haloperidol, blocked the effect of MCPP on ACTH and prolactin release. These results suggest that clozapine, in contrast to haloperidol, is a functional 5HT antagonist. Since MCPP-induced ACTH and prolactin release may be (partially) 5HT1c mediated, these results suggest that clozapine is a potent antagonist at the 5HT1c receptor.
Cross-familiarisation conditioned taste aversion procedure as a method to reveal stimulus resemblance between drugs: studies on the 5-HT1A agonist 8-OHDPAT.	In the present study a cross-familiarisation conditioned taste aversion (CTA) paradigm was utilized to reveal stimulus resemblance between the selective 5-HT1A agonist 8-OHDPAT and a variety of serotonergic and non-serotonergic drugs. In male mice, a 0.22 mg/kg dose of 8-OHDPAT was used as the reference compound inducing CTA. Dose-dependent effects of pre-exposure to 24 different test drugs on the magnitude of the 8-OHDPAT-induced CTA were tested as a measure for stimulus similarity between these test drugs and 8-OH-DPAT (the reference compound). Pre-exposure to 8-OH-DPAT itself, ipsapirone, buspirone, RU 24969, sertraline, d-amphetamine, LSD, metergoline and idazoxan effectively prevented the development of CTA induced by 8-OHDPAT. Pre-exposure to apomorphine, diazepam, SCH 23390, LiCl, spiperone, DOI, spiroxatrine, umespirone, pindolol, mCPP, haloperidol, MK 212, clonidine, quipazine and also 5-MeODMT was not effective in completely abolishing the CTA produced by 8-OHDPAT. It is concluded from these results that the relatively simple and fast cross-familiarisation taste aversion method is a suitable paradigm to study similarities in stimulus properties of different drugs.
Effects found in a one-year oral toxicity study in Sprague-Dawley rats of a novel 5-HT1A receptor partial agonist for the treatment of anxiety in humans.	A potent and selective serotonin (5-HT1A) partial agonist with potential as a human anxiolytic drug was given in oral doses of 0, 5, 15, or 50 mg/kg/day by gavage to Sprague-Dawley rats for 6 or 12 mo. Some animals were allowed 1 mo to recover after each treatment period. The 10-fold increase in dose resulted in a 20-fold increase in drug plasma concentration due to saturable first-pass metabolism. This resulted in disproportionately higher concentrations and greater bioavailability of the 15- and 50-mg/kg/day regimens. Drug exposure was associated with decreased spontaneous activity in the 15- and 50-mg/kg rats. The activity of these rats returned to normal during the recovery period. There were significant (p < 0.05) decreases in mean body weights during the study for 50-mg/kg males, with improvement during the recovery periods. No biologically significant effects were noted in clinical laboratory parameters. Based on organ weight increases and histopathological evaluation, drug-related effects after 6 and 12 mo of treatment were in the pituitary (both sexes) and all treated female reproductive organs. In general, these effects persisted into periods of recovery, except for pituitary hyperplasia, which was not apparent following recovery after treatment for 6 mo. After treatment for 12 mo and the following recovery, there were significant increases in adrenal weights in the 15- and 50-mg/kg/day males with no morphological correlate. There was increased pituitary hyperplasia that persisted through the recovery period in all treated groups in both sexes, but there was no increase in pituitary neoplasms. In treated females, there was also morphologic evidence of persistent diestrus (estrogenic effect) evidenced by endometrial squamous metaplasia, increased corpora lutea, vaginal mucification, and decreased uterine size. The clinical and pathological changes seen with these 2 regimens were considered exaggerated pharmacological effects of the drug on serotonin receptor-rich organs.
