Pyrimido[4,5-d]azepines as potent and selective 5-HT2C receptor agonists: design, synthesis, and evaluation of PF-3246799 as a treatment for urinary incontinence.	New pyrimido[4,5-d]azepines 7 are disclosed as potent 5-HT(2C) receptor agonists. A preferred example, 7b had minimal activation at either the 5-HT(2A) or 5-HT(2B) receptors combined with robust efficacy in a preclinical canine model of stress urinary incontinence (SUI) and attractive pharmacokinetic and safety properties. Based on this profile, 7b (PF-3246799) was identified as a candidate for clinical development for the treatment of SUI. In addition, it proved to be critical to build an understanding of the translation between recombinant cell-based systems, native tissue preparations and in vivo preclinical models. This was a significant undertaking and proved to be crucial in compound selection.
Synthesis and structure-activity relationships of N-benzyl phenethylamines as 5-HT2A/2C agonists.	N-Benzyl substitution of 5-HT2A receptor agonists of the phenethylamine structural class of psychedelics (such as 4-bromo-2,5-dimethoxyphenethylamine, often referred to as 2C-B) confer a significant increase in binding affinity as well as functional activity of the receptor. We have prepared a series of 48 compounds with structural variations in both the phenethylamine and N-benzyl part of the molecule to determine the effects on receptor binding affinity and functional activity at 5-HT2A and 5-HT2C receptors. The compounds generally had high affinity for the 5-HT2A receptor with 8b having the highest affinity at 0.29 nM but with several other compounds also exhibiting subnanomolar binding affinities. The functional activity of the compounds was distributed over a wider range with 1b being the most potent at 0.074 nM. Most of the compounds exhibited low to moderate selectivity (1- to 40-fold) for the 5-HT2A receptor in the binding assays, although one compound 6b showed an impressive 100-fold selectivity for the 5-HT2A receptor. In the functional assay, selectivity was generally higher with 1b being more than 400-fold selective for the 5-HT2A receptor. 
