Effects of the diet on brain function.	The rates of synthesis by brain neurons of the neurotransmitters serotonin, acetylcholine, and the catecholamines depend on the brain levels of the respective precursor molecules. Brain levels of each precursor are influenced by their blood concentration, and for the amino acid precursors, by the blood levels of other amino acids as well. Since diet readily alters blood concentrations of each of these precursors, it thereby also influences the brain formation of their neurotransmitter products.
Gut neuroendocrine cells: relationship to the proliferative activity and apoptosis of mucous epitheliocytes in aging.	Diffuse neuroendocrine system (DNES) cells regulate homeostasis via neurocrine, endocrine and paracrine mechanisms. Extensive effects of peptide hormones and biogenic amines necessitate studying of DNES cell biology in aging. In this connection, the functional morphology of gut neuroendocrine cells (NEC), proliferative activity and apoptosis of mucous epithelial cells in aging have been studied.
Feeding increases 5-hydroxytryptamine and norepinephrine within the hypothalamus of chicks.	It is thought that hypothalamic 5-hydroxytryptamine (5HT) and norepinephrine (NE) are involved in the regulation of feeding in chicks. The present study was conducted to elucidate changes in the levels of extracellular 5HT and NE in the hypothalamus during feeding of chicks. In order to measure 5HT, NE and 4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenylglycol (MHPG), which is a major metabolite of NE, we used brain microdialysis and high-pressure liquid chromatography with an electrochemical detector. After collecting samples to determine the basal levels of 5HT, NE and MHPG, food-deprived birds were given access to food. 5HT levels in the medial hypothalamus (MH) and lateral hypothalamus (LH) increased during the first 30 min of feeding, and then returned to basal levels. NE and MHPG in the LH increased during feeding, and remained elevated throughout the experiment. This study supports an idea that hypothalamic monoamines in the chick brain are involved in the regulation of feeding.
Variation of serotonergic gene expression: neurodevelopment and the complexity of response to psychopharmacologic drugs.	Individual differences in drug effects and treatment response are relatively enduring, continuously distributed, as well as substantially heritable, and are therefore likely to result from an interplay of multiple genomic variations with environmental influences. As the etiology and pathogenesis of behavioral and psychiatric disorders is genetically complex, so is the response to drug treatment. Psychopharmacologic drug response depends on the structure and functional expression of gene products, which may be direct drug targets or may indirectly modify the development and synaptic plasticity of neural networks critically involved in drug response. While formation and integration of these neural networks is dependent on the action of manifold proteins, converging lines of evidence indicate that genetically controlled variability in the expression of genes critical to the development and plasticity of distinct neurocircuits influences a wide spectrum of quantitative traits including treatment response. During brain development, neurotransmitter systems (e.g. serotonergic system), which are frequently targeted by psychotropic drugs, control neuronal specification, differentiation, and phenotype maintenance. The formation and maturation of these neurotransmitter systems, in turn, is directed by an intrinsic genetic program. Based on the notion that complex gene-gene and gene environment interactions in the regulation of brain plasticity are presumed to contribute to interindividual differences in drug response, the concept of developmental psychopharmacogenetics is emerging. This review appraises prototypical genomic variation with impact on gene expression and complementary studies of genetic and environmental effects on brain development and synaptic plasticity in the mouse model. Although special emphasis is given to molecular mechanisms of neurodevelopmental genetics, relevant conceptual and methodological issues pertinent to the dissection of the psychopharmacogenetic-neurodevelopmental interface are also considered.
Altered renal response to enhanced endogenous 5-hydroxytryptamine after tryptophan administration in essential hypertension.	1. To examine the pathophysiological significance of 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) in essential hypertension, we compared the renal response to intrarenally formed 5-hydroxytryptamine by oral dosing with its precursor, L-tryptophan (2 g), in nine patients with essential hypertension and in six subjects with normotension. 2. Before tryptophan administration, urinary excretion of 5-hydroxytryptamine was significantly higher in the hypertensive group than in the normotensive group (66 +/- 8 versus 36 +/- 6 ng/min, P less than 0.05), whereas renal plasma flow and glomerular filtration rate did not differ between the two groups. After dosing with tryptophan, urinary excretion of 5-hydroxytryptamine significantly increased to the same plateau level in both groups (366 +/- 55 ng/min in the hypertensive group and 365 +/- 64 ng/min in the normotensive group). Significant and equivalent decreases in renal plasma flow were observed in the early phase after tryptophan administration in both groups (-8.5 +/- 3.4% in the hypertensive group and -8.2 +/- 1.7% in the normotensive group). Thereafter, renal plasma flow increased to above the baseline value in normotensive subjects, whereas this late vasodilatation was absent in the hypertensive group. Glomerular filtration rate significantly decreased at the time of the fall in renal plasma flow in the normotensive group (106.8 +/- 7.8 to 92.7 +/- 8.5 ml min-1 1.73 m-2, P less than 0.05), whereas it remained unchanged in the hypertensive group (108.2 +/- 6.2 to 110.4 +/- 6.3 ml min-1 1.73 m-2, not significant).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Ghrelin expression in hyperplastic and neoplastic proliferations of the enterochromaffin-like (ECL) cells.	Ghrelin, a recently discovered peptide isolated from the gastric corpus mucosa, is believed to be important in the regulation of growth hormone secretion and has been shown to increase appetite and food intake as well. It may also have other gastrointestinal and cardiac functions. Because a cell of origin for ghrelin has not been convincingly identified in the gastric mucosa thus far, we studied the immunohistochemical expression of ghrelin in proliferative lesions of the enterochromaffin-like (ECL) cells-a cell that is not only exclusively confined to the gastric corpus mucosa but is its dominant endocrine cell type as well. Formalin-fixed, paraffin embedded tissues from three cases of gastric ECL cell hyperplasia and five ECL carcinoids (three with coexisting foci of diffuse, linear, and micronodular hyperplasia) were immunohistochemically stained for ghrelin, using a commercially available antibody. The Sevier-Munger stain for ECL cells and immunohistochemical stains for chromogranin, gastrin, serotonin, somatostatin, and vesicular monoamine transporter-2 (VMAT-2) were performed on parallel sections for correlation with the ghrelin staining results. All ECL cell carcinoids and hyperplastic lesions were positive for both the Sevier-Munger and the immunohistochemical stains for chromogranin and VMAT-2. Immunoreactivity for ghrelin was seen in 4/5 ECL carcinoids, all cases of ECL cell hyperplasia, as well as in all areas with linear and micronodular hyperplasia adjacent to the ECL cell carcinoids. In each instance, such staining was confined to the Sevier-Munger, and VMAT-2 positive cells only. Our findings indicate that the ECL cells are either the ghrelin-producing cells of the gastric mucosa or acquire the capability to synthesize ghrelin during proliferative states encompassing the entire hyperplasia to neoplasia spectrum. In view of the orexigenic and other known actions of ghrelin, the functional and/or biologic significance of ghrelin production in such ECL cell proliferations needs to be investigated further.
The too few mutant selectively affects subgroups of monoaminergic neurons in the zebrafish forebrain.	Monoaminergic neurons are present in small numbers and in multiple distinct locations of the vertebrate CNS. They are involved in important functions such as movement coordination, motivation, and the response to environmental stress. However, the mechanisms involved in their subtype specification are not well understood. In this study, we examined the states of forebrain dopaminergic (DA) and serotonergic (5HT) neurons in larval and adult zebrafish of wild type and the too few mutant. The majority of DA and 5HT neuronal subgroups that were found in adults were established in the 6-day old larval zebrafish. Rather than affecting all monoaminergic neurons in the forebrain, selective subgroups of these neurons are reduced in the too few mutant, starting from the larval stage. Taken together, our study establishes that similar to DA neurons, distinct subtypes of 5HT neurons exist in larval as well as adult zebrafish. The development of a subset of these monoaminergic neurons is dependent on the too few gene product. Thus, this mutant is potentially important for understanding the development as well as the function of forebrain DA and 5HT neurons.
Tryptophan hydroxylase-2 controls brain serotonin synthesis.	Dysregulation of brain serotonin contributes to many psychiatric disorders. Tryptophan hydroxylase-2 (Tph2), rather than Tph1, is preferentially expressed in the brain. We report a functional (C1473G) single-nucleotide polymorphism in mouse Tph2 that results in the substitution of Pro447 with Arg447 and leads to decreased serotonin levels in PC12 cells. Moreover, in BALB/cJ and DBA/2 mice that are homozygous for the 1473G allele, brain serotonin tissue content and synthesis are reduced in comparison to C57Bl/6 and 129X1/SvJ mice that are homozygous for the 1473C allele. Our data provide direct evidence for a fundamental role of Tph2 in brain serotonin synthesis.
Changes in background activity of periaqueductal gray neurons through application of serotonin or inhibition of its synthesis]	Application of serotonin (ST, 1.10(-4) M to periaqueductal grey neurons influenced background activity (BA) only in the third group of cells. In 45.5% of them ST evoked depression of BA. Through application of ST remarkable potentiation of BA inhibition evoked by locus coeruleus (LC), substantia nigra (SN) stimulation was found, but inhibitory affects of nucleus raphe magnus (NRM) were less intensive. After intraperitoneal injection of p-chlorophenylalanine the efficiency of NRM stimulation became lower, but influences of LC and SN on BA increased. The mechanisms of serotoninergic effects on BA of periaqueductal grey neurons are discussed.
Selective blockade of serotonin 5-HT2A receptor increases coronary blood flow via augmented cardiac nitric oxide release through 5-HT1B receptor in hypoperfused canine hearts.	Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine [5-HT]), which induces vasoconstriction via 5-HT2A receptors in smooth muscle cells and vasodilation through activating nitric oxide (NO) synthase (NOS) via 5-HT1B receptors in endothelial cells, possesses divergent effects on regulating vascular tone. These facts lead us to consider that sarpogrelate, a 5-HT2A receptor blocker, may increase coronary blood flow (CBF) via either attenuation of vasoconstriction through 5-HT2A receptor blockade or augmentation of vasodilation by relative stimulation of NOS through 5-HT1B receptor and we tested this hypothesis in ischemic canine hearts. In open chest dogs, coronary perfusion pressure was reduced so that CBF was decreased to 33% of the baseline and kept constant. Thereafter, sarpogrelate was infused selectively into the left anterior descending artery with and without either an inhibitor of NOS (NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME)) or a 5-HT1B receptor antagonist (GR55562). An intracoronary administration of sarpogrelate increased CBF (34.0 +/- 4.0 to 44.5 +/- 4.4 ml/100 g/min, P < 0.05), along with the cardiac NOx release (3.2 +/- 0.6 to 6.8 +/- 1.2 nmol/ml, P < 0.05). The increases in both CBF and NOx by sarpogrelate were completely blunted by the co-administration of either L-NAME or GR55562. Interestingly, sarpogrelate increased the cardiac serotonin release (-4.8 +/- 3.2 vs. 22.1 +/- 1.5 ng/ml, P < 0.05, respectively) in the hypoperfused heart. Immunohistochemical analysis showed that sarpogrelate induced serotonin production in ischemic cardiac myocytes. These results suggest that sarpogrelate increases CBF via augmented cardiac NO production through 5-HT1B receptor activation along with the blockade of 5-HT2A receptors. The increase in cardiac release of serotonin may increase NO production in the ischemic heart.
Electron immunocytochemical demonstration of serotonin, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, bombesin, somatostatin and glucagon in mirror biopsies from primary colorectal adenocarcinoma.	The aim of this study was to investigate the ultrastructural appearance of mirror biopsies from primary colorectal adenocarcinomas combined with serotonin, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, bombesin, somatostatin and glucagon expression in order to clarify the histology and immunology of these tissues compared with colorectal adenocarcinomas. The investigation was carried out in 90 cases of mirror biopsies by electron microscope immunocytochemistry. The ultrastructural study revealed that some cases (30%) of mirror biopsies were characterized by the presence of intracellular changes compared to normal tissues. The most significant of them were the presence of swollen abnormal mitochondria and the increased number of the secretory cells. The above enzymic and secretory changes were confirmed by electron immunogold results. Bombesin and VIP appeared to be located in enterochromaffin-like (ECL) endocrine cells primarily responsible for the production of serotonin. Somatostatin was located in D cells while we found numerous glucagon (EG) immunoreactive cells. In conclusion, low somatostatin expression, high glucagon and serotonin expression and the ectopic secretion of VIP and bombesin neuropeptides in mirror biopsies indicate the preneoplastic nature of these tissues and may be useful for the optimal treatment of patients with colorectal adenocarcinoma.
Loss-of-function mutation in tryptophan hydroxylase-2 identified in unipolar major depression.	Dysregulation of central serotonin neurotransmission has been widely suspected as an important contributor to major depression. Here, we identify a (G1463A) single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the rate-limiting enzyme of neuronal serotonin synthesis, human tryptophan hydroxylase-2 (hTPH2). The functional SNP in hTPH2 replaces the highly conserved Arg441 with His, which results in approximately 80% loss of function in serotonin production when hTPH2 is expressed in PC12 cells. Strikingly, SNP analysis in a cohort of 87 patients with unipolar major depression revealed that nine patients carried the mutant (1463A) allele, while among 219 controls, three subjects carried this mutation. In addition, this functional SNP was not found in a cohort of 60 bipolar disorder patients. Identification of a loss-of-function mutation in hTPH2 suggests that defect in brain serotonin synthesis may represent an important risk factor for unipolar major depression.
Characterization of serotonin transporter in blood lymphocytes of rats. Modulation by in vivo administration of mitogens.	Serotonin transporter sites were characterized in blood lymphocytes of rats. Pharmacological characteristics of drug interactions were in concordance with recent studies in nervous and human immune cells. The potency order of inhibition of [(3)H]paroxetine binding was imipramine>citalopram>alaproclate>serotonin. Selective inhibitors of dopamine or noradrenaline transporters did not inhibit it. The specific binding of [(3)H]paroxetine was higher at intermediate than at low concentrations, and the plot of free vs. specific binding had a sigmoid shape. The affinity constant or K(d), 1.77 nM, was in close agreement with data obtained from kinetic studies (K(d)=1.33 nM), which evidences that the equilibrium was reached. In addition, serotonin transporter was evaluated by lipopolysaccharide or concanavalin A administration in vivo (0.1 mg/kg, i.p., 18 h). After the treatment with lipopolysaccharide, no changes were observed in the numbers of sites or B(max) or in the affinity, K(d). The treatment with concanavalin A showed a significant reduction in B(max) and reduction in K(d). Additionally, serotonin and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid levels were determined in plasma and lymphocytes by high-performance liquid chromatography. Treatment with lipopolysaccharide produced a significant increased of serotonin levels in lymphocytes without changes in 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid level; in plasma, it produced an increase in serotonin and 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid levels. In addition, serotonin synthesis was evaluated by adding 300 microM of tryptophan in the medium, which significantly increased serotonin levels in control lymphocytes. Moreover, the concentrations of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid was enhanced significantly, both in plasma and lymphocytes in the presence of tryptophan after treatment with lipopolysaccharide. The administration of concanavalin A significantly decreased plasma levels of serotonin, as well as the concentrations of serotonin and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid in lymphocytes. These results demonstrate the presence of serotonin transporter in lymphocytes of rat blood, the capacity for serotonin synthesis in lymphocytes, and the modulation of these parameters by systemic administration of mitogens. The findings of this work contribute to understanding the immunological role of serotonin and the communication of immune and nervous systems.
Significance of abnormalities in developmental trajectory and asymmetry of cortical serotonin synthesis in autism.	The role of serotonin in prenatal and postnatal brain development is well documented in the animal literature. In earlier studies using positron emission tomography (PET) with the tracer alpha[(11)C]methyl-l-tryptophan (AMT), we reported global and focal abnormalities of serotonin synthesis in children with autism. In the present study, we measured brain serotonin synthesis in a large group of autistic children (n = 117) with AMT PET and related these neuroimaging data to handedness and language function. Cortical AMT uptake abnormalities were objectively derived from small homotopic cortical regions using a predefined cutoff asymmetry threshold (>2 S.D. of normal asymmetry). Autistic children demonstrated several patterns of abnormal cortical involvement, including right cortical, left cortical, and absence of abnormal asymmetry. Global brain values for serotonin synthesis capacity (unidirectional uptake rate constant, K-complex) values were plotted as a function of age. K-complex values of autistic children with asymmetry or no asymmetry in cortical AMT uptake followed different developmental patterns, compared to that of a control group of non-autistic children. The autism groups, defined by presence or absence and side of cortical asymmetry, differed on a measure of language as well as handedness. Autistic children with left cortical AMT decreases showed a higher prevalence of severe language impairment, whereas those with right cortical decreases showed a higher prevalence of left and mixed handedness. Global as well as focal abnormally asymmetric development in the serotonergic system could lead to miswiring of the neural circuits specifying hemispheric specialization.
A mouse model of carcinoid syndrome and heart disease.	Carcinoid heart disease occurs in over 65% of patients with the carcinoid syndrome and is characterized by fibrous thickening of cardiac valves, leading to heart failure. Whether serotonin is directly responsible for these cardiac abnormalities is unknown. Therefore, to further understand the etiology and pathophysiology of carcinoid heart disease, we developed an animal model of the carcinoid syndrome.
Behavioral restraint and symptoms of attention deficit disorder in alcoholics and pathological gamblers.	Adult alcoholics as well as pathological gamblers reported that, as children, they had higher than control levels of attention deficit disorder-related behaviors. On the other hand, alcoholics and only a subset of gamblers showed deficits in a test of behavioral restraint.
Stereoselectivity of 8-OH-DPAT toward the serotonin 5-HT1A receptor: biochemical and molecular modeling study.	The great majority of pharmacological investigations of 5-HT1A receptors' reactivity has been performed using racemic 8-OH-DPAT, therefore the biochemical as well as behavioral profiles of both 8-OH-DPAT enantiomers are not circumstantiated. In the biochemical study capability of racemic 8-OH-DPAT (0.05, 0.1 mg/kg s.c.) and its counterparts R-8-OH-DPAT (0.05, 0.1 mg/kg s.c.) and S-8-OH-DPAT (0.05, 0.1 mg/kg s.c.) to influence 5-HT synthesis rate in rats' prefrontal cortex, hypothalamus, hippocampus and brainstem was evaluated by HPLC/ED technique. Biochemical results are supported by the exhaustive computational study of possible differences between R- and S-enantiomer toward the 5-HT1A receptor. A reliable 3D model of the rat 5-HT1A receptor was constructed from the amino acid sequence using the crystal structure of bovine rhodopsin as a structural template. The structure of the receptor model was validated through docking studies and molecular dynamics simulations that gave results consistent with experimental data. Docking studies and the dynamics of ligand-receptor complexes emphasized different profiles of both enantiomers at the molecular level. The results of both biochemical and computational studies confirmed that R-enantiomer in contrast to S-8-OH-DPAT acts as full and potent agonist, whilst racemic form may display similar pharmacological profile to R-8-OH-DPAT.
Effects of the partial dopamine receptor agonists SDZ 208-911, SDZ 208-912 and terguride on central monoamine receptors. A behavioral, biochemical and electrophysiological study.	The partial dopamine receptor agonists SDZ 208-911 (N-[(8-alpha)-2,6-dimethylergoline-8-yl]-2,2-dimethylpropanamid e), SDZ 208-912 (N-[8-alpha)-2-chloro-6-methylergoline-8-yl]-2,2- dimethylpropanamide) and terguride (transdihydrolisuride; TDHL) were tested in biochemical, behavioral (locomotor activity) and electrophysiological assays in male rats. In reserpine-pretreated rats, SDZ 208-911 and terguride dose-dependently reduced striatal DOPA formation (NSD 1015 treatment) with similar efficacy (-80%) and potency as the selective D2 receptor agonist quinpirole (LY 171555). SDZ 208-912 only produced a partial reduction (-32%) at the highest dose tested. SDZ 208-911 and terguride partially reversed (by approximately 50%) the gamma-butyrolactone (GBL)-induced increase in striatal DOPA accumulation. Quinpirole produced a 100% reversal while SDZ208-912, per se, was inactive. While quinpirole decreased DOPA accumulation, all three partial agonists elevated striatal DOPA accumulation in non-pretreated rats with SDZ 208-912 being as potent and efficacious as haloperidol. The three partial agonists displayed comparatively high affinities in vitro for the dopamine D2 (3H-spiperone) receptor site and somewhat lower affinity for the 5-HT1A (3H-8-OH-DPAT) receptor site. SDZ 208-911 and SDZ 208-912 also showed high affinities for central alpha 2 (3H-idazoxane) receptors. In line with these findings, the partial ergoline agonists dose-dependently elevated the DOPA accumulation in the noradrenaline-rich cortical brain region and decreased the 5-HT synthesis rate (5-HTP accumulation) in the limbic brain region. Furthermore, high doses of SDZ 208-911 and terguride produced weak signs of the 5-HT behavioral syndrome (flat body posture) in reserpinized rats. In the locomotor activity studies in non-pretreated rats, SDZ 208-911, SDZ 208-912 and terguride reduced the activity to 10-20% of controls with SDZ 208-912 being approximately ten times less potent than the other two compounds. Weak postsynaptic dopamine receptor agonist effects of the partial agonists were demonstrated only in reserpine-pretreated rats; all three partial agonists tested produced occasional forward locomotion and the so-called "jerking" behavior. Extracellular single unit recordings were carried out in chloral hydrate-anesthetized rats to investigate the effects on firing rates of dopamine neurons located in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Intravenous administration of SDZ 208-911 and terguride depressed the firing rate by 42 and 53%, respectively, while apomorphine completely inhibited the cells. SDZ 208-912 only reduced the firing by 16% and some cells displayed a biphasic response with a weak depression at low doses that disappeared at high doses.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Increased release of serotonin in the spinal cord during low, but not high, frequency transcutaneous electric nerve stimulation in rats with joint inflammation.	To determine the release pattern of serotonin and noradrenaline in the spinal cord in response to transcutaneous electric nerve stimulation (TENS) delivered at low or high frequency.
5-Hydroxy-L-[beta-11C]tryptophan versus alpha-[11C]methyl-L-tryptophan for positron emission tomography imaging of serotonin synthesis capacity in the rhesus monkey brain.	The purpose of this study was to compare two positron emission tomography (PET) tracers that were developed to follow serotonin (5HT) synthesis by performing sequential PET scanning of the same rhesus monkey (n=4) on the same day. alpha-[11C]Methyl-L-tryptophan ([11C]AMT) and 5-Hydroxy-L-[beta-11C]tryptophan ([11C]HTP) are substrates in the first and second enzymatic steps, respectively, in the biosynthesis of 5HT. Regional net accumulation rate constants were derived from kinetic (two-tissue compartment model with irreversible tracer trapping) and graphic (Patlak) analyses, using the arterial plasma concentrations as input. The kinetic data analysis showed that the rate constant for the transfer of [11C]HTP into the brain (K1) was higher than that for [11C]AMT in the striatum and thalamus but was similar in other brain regions. The rate constant for tracer trapping (k3) was also higher for [11C]HTP than for [11C]AMT in the striatum (0.046+/-0.024 versus 0.019+/-0.006 min(-1)) and thalamus (0.039+/-0.013 versus 0.016+/-0.007 min(-1)). In agreement with previously reported regional HTP accumulation rates, the net accumulation rate constant (K(acc)) for [11C]HTP was also higher in these regions than in other brain regions; this is in contrast to the uniform distribution of [11C]AMT K(acc) values. This suggests that the regional net accumulation rates obtained with these two PET tracers will be of different magnitude, which might be related to the activity of each targeted enzyme.
Optimisation of halogenase enzyme activity by application of a genetic algorithm.	A genetic algorithm (GA) was applied for the optimisation of an enzyme assay composition respectively the enzyme activity of a recombinantly produced FADH(2)-dependent halogenating enzyme. The examined enzyme belongs to the class of halogenases and is capable to halogenate tryptophan regioselective in position 5. Therefore, the expressed trp-5-halogenase can be an interesting tool in the manufacturing of serotonin precursors. The application of stochastic search strategies (e.g. GAs) is well suited for fast determination of the global optimum in multidimensional search spaces, where statistical approaches or even the popular classical one-factor-at-a-time method often failures by misleading to local optima. The concentrations of six different medium components were optimised and the maximum yield of the halogenated tryptophan could be increased from 3.5 up to 65%.
Serotonin concentration, synthesis, cell origin, and targets in the rat caput epididymis during sexual maturation and variations associated with adult mating status: morphological and biochemical studies.	The caput epididymis of some mammals contains large quantities of serotonin whose origin, targets, and physiological variations have been poorly studied. We combined morphological and biochemical techniques to begin approaching these aspects of serotonin in the rat caput epididymis. Serotonin immunostaining was detected in mast, epithelial, and neuroendocrine cells. Epithelial cells displayed immunoreactivity to 5HT(1A), 5HT(2A,) and 5HT(3) serotonin receptors. Endothelial and mast cells labeled positive for 5HT(1B) serotonin receptors and spermatozoa displayed 5HT(2A) and 5HT(3) serotonin receptor immunoreactivity. Epithelial, endothelial, and mast cells stained positive for serotonin transporters. Only epithelial cells showed tryptophan hydroxylase immunoreactivity; this enzyme catalyzes the limiting step in the serotonin synthetic pathway. In addition, Western blot analyses of caput homogenates documented the presence of 2 protein bands ( approximately 51 kd and approximately 48 kd) that were immunoreactive for tryptophan hydroxylase. Chromatographic analyses documented the presence of tryptophan hydroxylase in the caput, and showed that both its activity and serotonin availability increased with sexual maturation and decreased following p-chlorophenylalanine treatment, an inhibitor of tryptophan hydroxylase activity. Interestingly, serotonin concentration and tryptophan hydroxylase activity tended to be higher in breeding males than in those with no mating experience. We think that these results support the existence of a local serotoninergic system in the rat caput epididymis that might regulate some aspects of male reproductive function.
Carbaryl-induced changes in indoleamine synthesis in the pineal gland and its effects on nighttime serum melatonin concentrations.	The effects of different doses of chronically administered carbaryl on rat pineal N-acetyltransferase (NAT) activity, hydroxyindole-O-methyltransferase (HIOMT) activity and pineal and serum melatonin levels during darkness (2300 h and 0100 h) when pineal melatonin synthesis is high were studied. Additionally, pineal levels of 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP), serotonin (5-HT) and 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid (5-HIAA) were estimated. Carbaryl was administered at total doses (over 6 days) of either 50, 125 or 250 mg/kg by gastric gavage. Control rats received vehicle (corn oil) only. During the study, the rats were exposed to light/dark cycles of 14:10 with lights off at 2100 h. Pineal NAT and HIOMT activities and pineal melatonin were increased at 0100 h following carbaryl administration at all three doses. Conversely, serum melatonin was increased at 2300 h after the 250 mg/kg dose of carbaryl while all three doses of the pesticide reduced serum melatonin levels at 0100 h. Pineal 5-HTP, 5-HT and 5-HIAA levels were usually increased at 2300 h but unaffected at 0100 h. The results indicate that carbaryl has significant effects on pineal melatonin synthesis and secretion.
Tetrahydrobiopterin availability in Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease; potential pathogenic mechanisms.	Within the central nervous system, tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) is an essential cofactor for dopamine and serotonin synthesis. In addition, BH4 is now established to be an essential cofactor for all isoforms of nitric oxide synthase (NOS). Inborn errors of metabolism affecting BH4 availability are well documented and the clinical presentation can be attributed to a paucity of dopamine, serotonin, and nitric oxide (NO) generation. In this article, we have focussed upon the sensitivity of BH4 to oxidative catabolism and the observation that when BH4 is limiting some cellular sources of NOS may generate superoxide whilst other BH4 saturated NOS enzymes may be generating NO. Such a scenario could favor peroxynitrite generation. If peroxynitrite is not scavenged, e.g., by antioxidants such as reduced glutathione, irreversible damage to critical cellular enzymes could ensue. Such targets include components of the mitochondrial electron transport chain, alpha ketoglutarate dehydrogenase and possibly pyruvate dehydrogenase. Such a cascade of events is hypothesized, in this article, to occur in neurodegenerative conditions such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease.
Postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptor stimulation increases motor activity in the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rat: implications for treating Parkinson's disease.	We have shown that the 5-HT1A agonist R-(+)-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin [R-(+)-8-OHDPAT] enhances motor activity in the monoamine-depleted rat, an acute model of Parkinson's disease. The present work extends these findings by investigating motor effects of R-(+)-8-OHDPAT in the unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rat, a chronic model of Parkinson's disease.
Depletion of serotonin and catecholamines block the acute behavioral response to different classes of antidepressant drugs in the mouse tail suspension test.	Few studies have investigated whether the behavioral effects elicited by different types of antidepressant drugs are mediated by either serotonin (5-HT) or the catecholamines norepinephrine (NE) and dopamine (DA).
Pulmonary hypertension: therapeutic targets within the serotonin system.	Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is characterized by a sustained and progressive elevation in pulmonary arterial pressure and pulmonary vascular remodelling leading to right heart failure and death. Prognosis is poor and novel therapeutic approaches are needed. The serotonin hypothesis of PAH originated in the 1960s after an outbreak of the disease was reported among patients taking the anorexigenic drugs aminorex and fenfluramine. These are indirect serotonergic agonists and serotonin transporter substrates. Since then many advances have been made in our understanding of the role of serotonin in the pathobiology of PAH. The rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of serotonin is tryptophan hydroxylase (Tph). Serotonin is synthesized, through Tph1, in the endothelial cells of the pulmonary artery and can then act on underlying pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cells and pulmonary arterial fibroblasts in a paracrine fashion causing constriction and remodelling. These effects of serotonin can be mediated through both the serotonin transporter and serotonin receptors. This review will discuss our current understanding of 'the serotonin hypothesis' of PAH and highlight possible therapeutic targets within the serotonin system.
Ontogeny of serotonin and serotonin2A receptors in rat auditory cortex.	Maturation of the mammalian cerebral cortex is, in part, dependent upon multiple coordinated afferent neurotransmitter systems and receptor-mediated cellular linkages during early postnatal development. Given that serotonin (5-HT) is one such system, the present study was designed to specifically evaluate 5-HT tissue content as well as 5-HT(2A) receptor protein levels within the developing auditory cortex (AC). Using high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), 5-HT and the metabolite, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), was measured in isolated AC, which demonstrated a developmental dynamic, reaching young adult levels early during the second week of postnatal development. Radioligand binding of 5-HT(2A) receptors with the 5-HT(2A/2C) receptor agonist, (125)I-DOI ((+/-)-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane HCl; in the presence of SB206553, a selective 5-HT(2C) receptor antagonist, also demonstrated a developmental trend, whereby receptor protein levels reached young adult levels at the end of the first postnatal week (P8), significantly increased at P10 and at P17, and decreased back to levels not significantly different from P8 thereafter. Immunocytochemical labeling of 5-HT(2A) receptors and confocal microscopy revealed that 5-HT(2A) receptors are largely localized on layer II/III pyramidal cell bodies and apical dendrites within AC. When considered together, the results of the present study suggest that 5-HT, likely through 5-HT(2A) receptors, may play an important role in early postnatal AC development.
The 1989 Borden Award Lecture. Some effects of dietary components (amino acids, carbohydrate, folic acid) on brain serotonin synthesis, mood, and behavior.	This review covers three areas in which dietary components may influence brain serotonin synthesis, mood, and behavior. In the first, tryptophan-deficient amino acid mixtures have been used to lower brain tryptophan and serotonin in normal human subjects for experimental purposes. Results suggest that low serotonin can cause lowered mood and increased aggression, but that it is probably not involved in any simple way in carbohydrate craving. Low serotonin levels can block the analgesic effect of morphine in humans. The second area concerns deficiencies of folic acid, which can cause low brain serotonin and lowered mood. Folate supplements may be useful in some depressed patients. The third area concerns the effect of carbohydrate meals. Although it is well established that carbohydrate meals raise brain tryptophan and serotonin in the rat, and that protein meals lower them, any effects of carbohydrate or protein meals on human brain serotonin are likely to be negligible under most circumstances. Carbohydrate meals can have definite effects on mood and behavior in humans, and there are a variety of mechanisms, other than alterations in brain serotonin, that might mediate these effects.
Paracrine modulation of cholangiocyte serotonin synthesis orchestrates biliary remodeling in adults.	Paracrine signaling between cholangiocytes and stromal cells regulates biliary remodeling. Cholangiocytes have neuroepithelial characteristics and serotonin receptor agonists inhibit their growth, but whether they are capable of serotonin biosynthesis is unknown. We hypothesized that cholangiocytes synthesize serotonin and that cross talk between liver myofibroblasts (MF) and cholangiocytes regulates this process to influence biliary remodeling. Transwell cultures of cholangiocytes ± MF, and tryptophan hydroxylase-2 knockin (TPH2KI) mice with an inactivating mutation of the neuronal tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) isoform, TPH2, were evaluated. Results in the cell culture models confirm that cholangiocytes have serotonin receptors and demonstrate for the first time that these cells express TPH2 and produce serotonin, which autoinhibits their growth but stimulates MF production of TGF-β(1). Increased TGF-β(1), in turn, counteracts autocrine inhibition of cholangiocyte growth by repressing cholangiocyte TPH2 expression. Studies of TPH2KI mice confirm that TPH2-mediated production of serotonin plays an important role in remodeling damaged bile ducts because mice with decreased TPH2 function have reduced biliary serotonin levels and exhibit excessive cholangiocyte proliferation, accumulation of aberrant ductules and liver progenitors, and increased liver fibrosis after bile duct ligation. This new evidence that cholangiocytes express the so-called neuronal isoform of TPH, synthesize serotonin de novo, and deploy serotonin as an autocrine/paracrine signal to regulate regeneration of the biliary tree complements earlier work that revealed that passive release of serotonin from platelets stimulates hepatocyte proliferation. Given the prevalent use of serotonin-modulating drugs, these findings have potentially important implications for recovery from various types of liver damage.
Drosophila Ube3a regulates monoamine synthesis by increasing GTP cyclohydrolase I activity via a non-ubiquitin ligase mechanism.	The underlying defects in Angelman syndrome (AS) and autism spectrum disorder (ASD) may be in part due to basic defects in synaptic plasticity and function. In some individuals serotonin reuptake inhibitors, which decrease pre-synaptic re-uptake of serotonin, can ameliorate symptoms, as can resperidone, which blocks both dopamine and serotonin receptors. Loss of maternal UBE3A expression causes AS, while maternal duplications of chromosome 15q11.2-q13 that include the UBE3A gene cause ASD, implicating the maternally expressed UBE3A gene in the ASD phenotype. In a Drosophila screen for proteins regulated by UBE3A, we identified a key regulator of monoamine synthesis, the gene Punch, or GCH1, encoding the enzyme GTP cyclohydrolase I. Here we show that Dube3a, the fly UBE3A orthologue, regulates Punch/GCH1 in the fly brain. Over-expression of Dube3a elevates tetrahydrobiopterin (THB), the rate-limiting cofactor in monoamine synthesis while loss of Dube3a has the opposite effect. The fluctuations in dopamine levels were associated with hyper- and hypoactivity, respectively, in flies. We show that changes in Punch/GCH1 and dopamine levels do not depend on the ubiquitin ligase catalytic domain of Dube3a. In addition, both wild type Dube3a and a ubiquitination-defective Dube3a-C/A form were found at high levels in nuclear fractions and appear to be poly-ubiquitinated in vivo by endogenous Dube3a. We propose that the transcriptional co-activation function of Dube3a may regulate GCH1 activity in the brain. These results provide a connection between monoamine synthesis (dopamine/serotonin) and Dube3a expression that may explain why some individuals with ASD or AS respond better to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors than others.
Methanol is an endogenous elicitor molecule for the synthesis of tryptophan and tryptophan-derived secondary metabolites upon senescence of detached rice leaves.	During senescence of detached rice leaves, tryptophan (Trp) and Trp-derived secondary metabolites such as serotonin and 4-coumaroylserotonin accumulated in concert with methanol (MeOH) production. This senescence-induced MeOH induction was closely associated with levels of pectin methylesterase (PME)1 mRNA and PME enzyme activity. Exogenous challenge of detached rice leaves with 1% MeOH accelerated Trp and serotonin biosynthesis with induction of the corresponding genes. No other solvents, including ethanol, resulted in a Trp-inducing effect. This MeOH-induced Trp synthesis was positively regulated by abscisic acid but negatively regulated by cytokinin, suggesting hormonal involvement in the action of MeOH. Endogenous overproduction or suppression of MeOH either by PME1 overexpression or RNA interference (RNAi) gene silencing revealed that PME1 overexpressing lines produced twofold higher Trp levels with elevated Trp biosynthetic gene expression, whereas RNAi lines showed twofold reduction in Trp level in healthy control rice leaves, suggesting that MeOH acts as an endogenous elicitor to enhance Trp biosynthesis. Among many transcription factors induced following MeOH treatment, the WRKY family showed significant induction patterns, of which WRKY14 appeared to play a key regulatory role in MeOH-induced Trp and Trp-derived secondary metabolite biosynthesis.
Adipocytes express a functional system for serotonin synthesis, reuptake and receptor activation.	Serotonergic pathways in the central nervous system (CNS) are activated in the regulation of food intake and body weight. We hypothesized that adipocytes, like other cells of mesenchymal origin, possess serotonin receptors and thus could be regulated by peripherally circulating serotonin.
Effects of Phellinus linteus administration on serotonin synthesis in the brain and expression of monocarboxylate transporters in the muscle during exhaustive exercise in rats.	This study was conducted to determine the effects of Phellinus linteus (PL) on serotonin synthesis in the brain and on the expression of monocarboxylate transporters (MCTs) in muscles during exhaustive exercise in rats. In this study, 60 male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into the following 6 groups: control; exercise; exercise and 50 mg/kg of PL treatment; exercise and 100 of mg/kg PL treatment; exercise and 200 mg/kg of PL treatment; and exercise and 100 mg/kg of caffeine treatment. Treatment with 200 mg/kg of PL led to a significant increase in the time to exhaustion in response to running on a treadmill and a significant decrease in 5-hydroxytryptamine synthesis and tryptophan hydroxylase expression in the dorsal raphe of rats. MCT1 and MCT4 expression of the gastrocnemius muscles was also increased in response to treatment with 200 mg/kg of PL. The results of the present study demonstrated that the administration of PL increased endurance exercise performance through inhibition of serotonin production in the brain and increased the expression of MCT1 and MCT4 in muscles. These results suggest that PL exerts an ergogenic effect.
Tryptophan hydroxylase: a target for neuroendocrine disruption.	Tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH), the rate-limiting enzyme in serotonin (5-HT) synthesis, performs an essential role in the maintenance of serotonergic functions in the central nervous system (CNS), including regulation of the neuroendocrine system controlling reproduction. The results of recent studies in a teleost model of neuroendocrine disruption, Atlantic croaker, indicated that hypothalamic TPH is a major site of interference of hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal function by environmental stressors. The effects of exposure to two different types of environmental stressors, low dissolved oxygen (hypoxia) and a polychlorinated biphenyl mixture (Aroclor 1254), on the stimulatory brain serotonergic system controlling reproductive neuroendocrine function in Atlantic croaker are reviewed. Exposure to both stressors produced decreases in TPH activity, which were accompanied by a fall in hypothalamic 5-HT and gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH I) content in the preoptic-anterior hypothalamic area and were associated with reduction in luteinizing hormone (LH) secretion and gonadal development. Pharmacological restoration of hypothalamic 5-HT levels after exposure to both stressors also restored neuroendocrine and reproductive functions, indicating that the serotonergic system is an important site for hypoxia- and Aroclor 1254-induced inhibition of reproductive neuroendocrine functions. The mechanisms underlying downregulation of TPH activity by these stressors remain unclear but may involve alterations in hypothalamic antioxidant status. In support of this hypothesis, treatment with an antioxidant, vitamin E, was found to reverse the inhibitory effects of Aroclor 1254 on TPH activity. The results suggest that TPH is a major target for neuroendocrine disruption by diverse environmental stressors.
Boosting serotonin in the brain: is it time to revamp the treatment of depression?	Abnormalities in serotonin systems are presumably linked to various psychiatric disorders including schizophrenia and depression. Medications intended for these disorders aim to either block the reuptake or the degradation of this neurotransmitter. In an alternative approach, efforts have been made to enhance serotonin levels through dietary manipulation of precursor levels with modest clinical success. In the last 30 years, there has been little improvement in the pharmaceutical management of depression, and now is the time to revisit therapeutic strategies for the treatment of this disease. Tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) catalyzes the first and rate-limiting step in the biosynthesis of serotonin. A recently discovered isoform, TPH2, is responsible for serotonin biosynthesis in the brain. Learning how to activate this enzyme (and its polymorphic versions) may lead to a new, more selective generation of antidepressants, able to regulate the levels of serotonin in the brain with fewer side effects.
The opposite effect of a 5-HT1B receptor agonist on 5-HT synthesis, as well as its resistant counterpart, in an animal model of depression.	Flinders Sensitive Line (FSL) rat is as an animal model of depression with altered parameters of the serotonergic (5-HT) system function (5-HT synthesis rates, tissue concentrations, release, receptor density and affinity), as well as an altered sensitivity of these parameters to different 5-HT based antidepressants. The effects of acute and chronic treatments with the 5-HT(1B) agonist, CP-94253 on 5-HT synthesis, in the FSL rats and the Flinders Resistant Line (FRL) controls were measured using α-[(14)C]methyl-L-tryptophan (α-MTrp) autoradiography. CP-94253 (5mg/kg), or an adequate volume of saline, was injected i.p. as a single dose in the acute experiment or delivered via the subcutaneously implanted osmotic minipump (5 mg/kg/day for 14 days) in the chronic experiment. The acute treatment with CP-94253 significantly decreased the 5-HT synthesis in both the FRL and FSL rats, with a more widespread effect in the FRL rats. Chronic treatment with CP-94253 significantly decreased 5-HT synthesis in the FRL rats, while 5-HT synthesis in the FSL rats was significantly increased throughout the brain. In both the acute and chronic experiment, the FRL rats had higher brain 5-HT synthesis rates, relative to the FSL rats. The shift in the direction of the treatment effect from acute to chronic, using the 5-HT(1B) agonist, CP-94253, on 5-HT synthesis in the FSL model of depression, with an opposite effect on the control FRL rats, suggests the differential adaptation of the 5-HT system in the FSL and FRL rats to chronic stimulation of 5-HT(1B) receptors.
Circadian-related heteromerization of adrenergic and dopamine D₄ receptors modulates melatonin synthesis and release in the pineal gland.	The role of the pineal gland is to translate the rhythmic cycles of night and day encoded by the retina into hormonal signals that are transmitted to the rest of the neuronal system in the form of serotonin and melatonin synthesis and release. Here we describe that the production of both melatonin and serotonin by the pineal gland is regulated by a circadian-related heteromerization of adrenergic and dopamine D₄ receptors. Through α(₁B)-D₄ and β₁-D₄ receptor heteromers dopamine inhibits adrenergic receptor signaling and blocks the synthesis of melatonin induced by adrenergic receptor ligands. This inhibition was not observed at hours of the day when D₄ was not expressed. These data provide a new perspective on dopamine function and constitute the first example of a circadian-controlled receptor heteromer. The unanticipated heteromerization between adrenergic and dopamine D₄ receptors provides a feedback mechanism for the neuronal hormone system in the form of dopamine to control circadian inputs.
Both acute and subchronic treatments with pindolol, a 5-HT(1A) and β₁ and β₂ adrenoceptor antagonist, elevate regional serotonin synthesis in the rat brain: an autoradiographic study.	Antidepressant treatments, including those that increase serotonin (5-HT) neurotransmission, require several weeks or months until the onset of the therapeutic effect in depressed patients. The negative feedback on 5-HT transmission exhibited by the 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(1B) autoreceptors has been postulated as a possible delaying factor. The aim of the present study was to assess the effect of the acute and subchronic treatment with pindolol, a 5-HT(1A/1B,) β₁ and β₂ adrenoceptor antagonist, on 5-HT synthesis, one of the key parameters of 5-HT neurotransmission. Male Sprague-Dawley (SPD) rats (180-220 g) were treated with pindolol or an adequate volume of saline, administered either acutely (15 mg/kg i.p.; SPD-AC-SAL, SPD-AC-TR) or subchronically (15 mg/kg day i.p. for 7 days; SPD-SUBCHR-SAL, SPD-SUBCHR-TR). Thirty minutes following the single i.p. injection (acute experiment) or at the 8th day following the commencement of the subchronic treatment (subchronic experiment), 5-HT synthesis was measured using α-[¹⁴C]methyl-L-tryptophan autoradiography. The analysis of variance (ANOVA), followed by the Benjamini-Hochberg correction for multiple comparisons, revealed: (1) a significant increase of 5-HT synthesis in the SPD-AC-TR rats, relative to the SPD-AC-SAL rats in all brain regions examined except the substantia nigra--pars reticularis, dorsal subiculum, inferior olive, raphe magnus and raphe obscurus and (2) a significant increase of 5-HT synthesis in the SPD-SUBCHR-TR rats, relative to the SPD-SUBCHR-SAL rats in all brain regions except the median raphe, hypothalamus and raphe pontine. On the basis of these results, we hypothesized that the antagonism of the 5-HT(1A/1B) receptors prevents the negative feedback mediated by these receptors on 5-HT synthesis, resulting in a persistent increase of 5-HT synthesis. The results accord with clinical reports on the utility of pindolol in the augmentation of antidepressant treatment.
Transcriptional suppression of tryptamine 5-hydroxylase, a terminal serotonin biosynthetic gene, induces melatonin biosynthesis in rice (Oryza sativa L.).	Rice tryptamine 5-hydroxylase (T5H) is the second enzyme in melatonin biosynthesis, catalyzing tryptamine into serotonin. Transgenic rice plants, in which the expression of endogenous T5H was either overexpressed or repressed, were examined for alteration in melatonin biosynthesis. Unexpectedly, the overexpression genotypes showed reduced levels of melatonin, while the repression genotypes had elevated levels with an average increase of fourfold. With regard to melatonin intermediates, tryptamine and serotonin levels decreased, but tryptophan and N-acetylserotonin were unaltered in the overexpression genotypes compared with the wild type. In contrast, the repression genotypes had sevenfold higher tryptamine levels than the wild type. In addition, tryptophan and 5-hydroxytryptophan were present at higher levels in the repression genotypes than in both the wild-type and the overexpression genotypes. The enhanced melatonin synthesis in the repression genotypes was closely associated with a transcriptional increase in TDC1. When these rice plants were challenged by oxidative stressors such as herbicides, much higher melatonin synthesis was also observed in the repression genotypes than in either the wild-type or overexpression genotypes. These results suggest that the tryptamine increase through the suppression of T5H plays an important signaling role in triggering melatonin biosynthesis in rice, although the exact role of tryptamine remains to be uncovered. 
Zebrafish tyrosine hydroxylase 2 gene encodes tryptophan hydroxylase.	The primary pathological hallmark of Parkinson disease (PD) is the profound loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. To facilitate the understanding of the underling mechanism of PD, several zebrafish PD models have been generated to recapitulate the characteristics of dopaminergic (DA) neuron loss. In zebrafish studies, tyrosine hydroxylase 1 (th1) has been frequently used as a molecular marker of DA neurons. However, th1 also labels norepinephrine and epinephrine neurons. Recently, a homologue of th1, named tyrosine hydroxylase 2 (th2), was identified based on the sequence homology and subsequently used as a novel marker of DA neurons. In this study, we present evidence that th2 co-localizes with serotonin in the ventral diencephalon and caudal hypothalamus in zebrafish embryos. In addition, knockdown of th2 reduces the level of serotonin in the corresponding th2-positive neurons. This phenotype can be rescued by both zebrafish th2 and mouse tryptophan hydroxylase 1 (Tph1) mRNA as well as by 5-hydroxytryptophan, the product of tryptophan hydroxylase. Moreover, the purified Th2 protein has tryptophan hydroxylase activity comparable with that of the mouse TPH1 protein in vitro. Based on these in vivo and in vitro results, we conclude that th2 is a gene encoding for tryptophan hydroxylase and should be used as a marker gene of serotonergic neurons. 
A Pitx transcription factor controls the establishment and maintenance of the serotonergic lineage in planarians.	In contrast to adult vertebrates, which have limited capacities for neurogenesis, adult planarians undergo constitutive cellular turnover during homeostasis and are even able to regenerate a whole brain after decapitation. This enormous plasticity derives from pluripotent stem cells residing in the planarian body in large numbers. It is still obscure how these stem cells are programmed for differentiation into specific cell lineages and how lineage identity is maintained. Here we identify a Pitx transcription factor of crucial importance for planarian regeneration. In addition to patterning defects that are co-dependent on the LIM homeobox transcription factor gene islet1, which is expressed with pitx at anterior and posterior regeneration poles, RNAi against pitx results in islet1-independent specific loss of serotonergic (SN) neurons during regeneration. Besides its expression in terminally differentiated SN neurons we found pitx in stem cell progeny committed to the SN fate. Also, intact pitx RNAi animals gradually lose SN markers, a phenotype that depends neither on increased apoptosis nor on stem cell-based turnover or transdifferentiation into other neurons. We propose that pitx is a terminal selector gene for SN neurons in planarians that controls not only their maturation but also their identity by regulating the expression of the Serotonin production and transport machinery. Finally, we made use of this function of pitx and compared the transcriptomes of regenerating planarians with and without functional SN neurons, identifying at least three new neuronal targets of Pitx. 
The effect of liver ischaemia on brain monoamine synthesis in the rat.	Subtotal or total liver ischaemia was induced in the rat by dividing the hepatic artery (Expt. I) or by total dearterialisation of the liver (Expt. II) 2 days after porta-caval shunt (PCS). The animals received i.v. a 10% glucose infusion for 5 h after the last operation and were killed by decapitation. At the end of the experiment all animals with liver ischaemia were in Grade III coma. In different regions of the CNS 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP), 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), were analysed by HPLC-technique with electrochemical detection, while dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA), dopamine (DA) and norepinephrine (NE) were analysed with a radio enzymatic method after blocking the decarboxylation of 5-HTP to 5-HT and DOPA to DA by inhibition of the aromatic amino acid decarboxylase enzyme with m-hydroxybenzylhydrazine (NSD 1015) in order to estimate the synthesis rate of 5-hydroxyindoles and catecholamines. In Expt. I concentrations of 5-HTP in animals with PCS were increased as compared to sham operation. In animals with liver ischaemia, 5-HTP concentrations were increased as compared to sham operation but similar to those in animals with PCS alone. These results suggest that ligation of the hepatic artery for 5 h in PCS animals does not further accelerate the rate of brain indole synthesis. In Expt. II, the 5-HTP concentrations were increased in PCS animals as compared to sham operation. Animals with total liver dearterialisation exhibited decreased 5-HTP levels as compared to PCS, suggesting a decreased brain indole synthesis after severe liver ischaemia. In Expt. II, CNS concentrations of DOPA following PCS were unaltered as compared with sham-operated animals. In animals with total liver dearterialisation, DOPA levels were increased, suggesting an augmented catecholamine synthesis. The NE levels were lower than in PCS and in sham-operated animals.
Amphetamine and alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine affect the exercise-induced imbalance between the availability of tryptophan and synthesis of serotonin in the brain of the rat.	This study was performed to investigate the effects of exercise on the synthesis of dopamine (DA) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) in the brain of the trained rat. The consequences on the relationships between these two systems were also examined. The sum of the levels of free 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl acetic acid (DOPAC) plus homovanillic acid (HVA) was increased by running and remained elevated throughout the first hour of recovery. Regional studies indicated that the levels of DA were increased in the midbrain, hypothalamus and hippocampus. In these areas, DOPAC showed little variation whereas HVA was largely increased. Administration of pargyline confirmed this increase in the metabolism of DA in hypothalamus and midbrain during running. Food deprivation and administration of tryptophan clearly revealed that running, despite increasing levels of tryptophan and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid in brain, reduced the central control of synthesis of 5-HT by tryptophan, probably by inhibiting tryptophan hydroxylase. To examine if such an alteration was caused by the running-induced activation of metabolism of DA in brain, compounds known to affect the activity of DA were used. Administration of amphetamine potentiated the relative inhibition of synthesis of 5-HT induced by running, while alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine prevented this effect of exercise. Haloperidol did not produce any significant change. It is concluded that the control of the synthesis of 5-HT in brain by the availability of tryptophan is altered during exercise and that the increased central catecholaminergic activity participates in such an alteration.
Nanomolar oxytocin synergizes with weak electrical afferent stimulation to activate the locomotor CpG of the rat spinal cord in vitro.	Synergizing the effect of afferent fibre stimulation with pharmacological interventions is a desirable goal to trigger spinal locomotor activity, especially after injury. Thus, to better understand the mechanisms to optimize this process, we studied the role of the neuropeptide oxytocin (previously shown to stimulate locomotor networks) on network and motoneuron properties using the isolated neonatal rat spinal cord. On motoneurons oxytocin (1 nM-1 μM) generated sporadic bursts with superimposed firing and dose-dependent depolarization. No desensitization was observed despite repeated applications. Tetrodotoxin completely blocked the effects of oxytocin, demonstrating the network origin of the responses. Recording motoneuron pool activity from lumbar ventral roots showed oxytocin mediated depolarization with synchronous bursts, and depression of reflex responses in a stimulus and peptide-concentration dependent fashion. Disinhibited bursting caused by strychnine and bicuculline was accelerated by oxytocin whose action was blocked by the oxytocin antagonist atosiban. Fictive locomotion appeared when subthreshold concentrations of NMDA plus 5HT were coapplied with oxytocin, an effect prevented after 24 h incubation with the inhibitor of 5HT synthesis, PCPA. When fictive locomotion was fully manifested, oxytocin did not change periodicity, although cycle amplitude became smaller. A novel protocol of electrical stimulation based on noisy waveforms and applied to one dorsal root evoked stereotypic fictive locomotion. Whenever the stimulus intensity was subthreshold, low doses of oxytocin triggered fictive locomotion although oxytocin per se did not affect primary afferent depolarization evoked by dorsal root pulses. Among the several functional targets for the action of oxytocin at lumbar spinal cord level, the present results highlight how small concentrations of this peptide could bring spinal networks to threshold for fictive locomotion in combination with other protocols, and delineate the use of oxytocin to strengthen the efficiency of electrical stimulation to activate locomotor circuits. 
Altered branching of serotonin-containing neurons in Drosophila mutants unable to synthesize serotonin and dopamine.	The anatomy of peripheral serotonin-containing fibers (5-HT fibers) in the gut of wild-type Drosophila larvae was compared to mutants deficient in the gene that encodes the enzyme dopa decarboxylase (DfDdc mutants). The 5-HT fibers, located in the proventriculus and midgut, were visualized immunocytochemically by using a monoclonal antibody against 5-HT. Since DfDdc larvae are devoid of 5-HT and dopamine in the nervous system, the highly selective uptake capability of 5-HT neurons was used to visualize the 5-HT fibers. We found that the absence of 5-HT and dopamine in the nervous system of DfDdc animals does not prevent 5-HT fibers from reaching their appropriate targets. However, these fibers in the mutant show a 2-fold increase in the extent of branching. This effect is specific to 5-HT fibers, since glutamate-like and FMRFamide-like immunoreactive fibers of the proventriculus and midgut remain unaffected in the mutant. Low but detectable levels of dopamine and 5-HT in the CNS are sufficient to prevent the increase in arborization, as indicated by analyses of a temperature-sensitive Ddc allele (Ddcts2), which has very low dopa decarboxylase activity. The abnormally extensive branching of 5-HT fibers also can be partially rescued by feeding DfDdc larvae with dopamine. In contrast, feeding with a 5-HT-containing diet had no effect on the mutant phenotype. Hypotheses that could explain the mutant phenotype are proposed.
Evidence for selective inhibition of limbic forebrain dopamine synthesis by 8-OH-DPAT in the rat.	Regional dopamine synthesis in the rat striatum was estimated by measuring DOPA accumulation following inhibition of cerebral aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase by means of NSD-1015, 100 mg kg-1 intraperitoneally. In animals treated with reserpine, 5 mg kg-1 subcutaneously -18 h, there was a statistically significant increase in DOPA accumulation in the nucleus accumbens, the ventro-medial neostriatum, the dorso-lateral neostriatum and in the posterior limb of the neostriatum. This increase in DOPA accumulation was antagonized dose-dependently in the nucleus accumbens and ventro-medial neostriatum, but not in the other two regions, by treatment with the 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT, 0.15-2.4 mumol kg-1, whereas the partial dopamine D2 receptor agonist (-)3-PPP, 2.5-10.0 mumol kg-1, or the full dopamine D2 receptor agonist quinpirole, 0.05-0.8 mumol kg-1, antagonized the reserpine-induced increase in DOPA accumulation uniformly in all four regions of the striatum. The suppression of DOPA accumulation by 8-OH-DPAT in reserpine-treated animals, was completely antagonized by raclopride, 1 mumol kg-1, but not by (-)pindolol, 8 mumol kg-1. The accumulation of 5-HTP in all regions of the striatum as well as in the neocortex following decarboxylase inhibition and reserpine pretreatment, was also inhibited by 8-OH-DPAT, and this inhibition was unaffected by treatment with raclopride or (-)pindolol. It is concluded that 8-OH-DPAT, in addition to general effects on forebrain 5-hydroxytryptamine synthesis, selectively affects limbic forebrain dopamine synthesis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Laxatives and the production of autacoids by rat colon.	The effects of some laxatives were examined on the formation of histamine, 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and prostaglandin-like material (PG-LM) by rat intestine in-vitro. Castor oil, senna, sulphosuccinate and bisacodyl, but not mannitol or lactulose, in doses that cause laxation, increased the formation of histamine, 5-HT and PG-LM. Indomethacin or hydrocortisone reduced the increase of PG-LM formation. The data support the idea that the laxative effects of these intestinal secretagogues are due to increased intestinal production of PG-LM, histamine and 5-HT.
(+)-cis-8-Hydroxy-1-methyl-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin: a potent and highly stereoselective 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor agonist.	C1-Methylated derivatives of the potent 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT, 1) were synthesized and tested for central 5-HT and dopamine receptor activity by use of a biochemical test method in rats. cis-8-Hydroxy-1-methyl-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8) was found to be a 5-HT receptor agonist. The (+)-enantiomer of 8 had a potency equal to that of 1, whereas (-)-8 and the trans isomer (+/-)-9 were inactive.
Platelet aggregation by group B streptococci.	Forty-six strains of group B streptococci (GBS), including various serotypes and non-serotypable strains, were tested for their ability to induce platelet aggregation in human platelet-rich plasma; four strains, all belonging to type III, showed a positive reaction. The characteristics of the reaction were investigated in these four positive strains. Aggregation was dependent on the ratio of bacteria to platelets, being maximal at a ratio of 4.3. Platelet aggregation was inhibited by EDTA (100% inhibition at 3.1 mM), indomethacin (100% inhibition at 10 mM), acetylsalicylic acid (93-100% inhibition at 5.0 mM) and quinacrine (100% inhibition at 0.25 mM). Thus the reaction was cation-dependent and required cyclooxygenase activity. Assays for cytosolic lactate dehydrogenase did not indicate platelet lysis. GBS induced the release of [3H]serotonin, which was maximal (68-78%) at 10 min after the reaction was started. Experiments with gel-filtered platelets suggested that GBS-induced platelet aggregation required both fibrinogen and heat-resistant (56 degrees C, 30 min) serum factors. Type-specific antisera prevented the platelet aggregation activity of heat-killed bacteria, but not of live bacteria. Trypsin digestion of the bacterial cells caused an almost complete loss of the platelet aggregation activity.
Evidence for uptake and synthesis of 5-hydroxytryptamine by a subpopulation of intrinsic neurons in the guinea-pig heart.	Using an indirect immunofluorescence technique, a subpopulation of 5-hydroxytryptamine-like immunoreactive neurons was observed in cell cultures dissociated from the atria and interatrial septum of newborn guinea-pig heart maintained in fetal calf serum-supplemented medium. 5-Hydroxytryptamine has not been demonstrated in intracardiac neurons in situ, and since 5-hydroxytryptamine has been previously shown to be a constituent of fetal calf serum, the 5-hydroxytryptamine-like immunoreactivity seen in culture may have been the result of neuronal uptake of 5-hydroxytryptamine from the growth medium. This was examined by growing the cultures in a serum-free, hormone-supplemented, defined medium. Under these conditions, 5-hydroxytryptamine-like immunoreactive neurons were not present. When cultures were grown in hormone-supplemented, defined medium containing 10(-4) to 10(-6) M 5-hydroxytryptamine, some intracardiac neurons accumulated 5-hydroxytryptamine. This type of neuron also developed 5-hydroxytryptamine-like immunoreactivity after incubation with 5 X 10(-5) M 5-hydroxytryptophan, indicating that the subpopulation of intracardiac neurons which can take up exogenous 5-hydroxytryptamine can also synthesize it from 5-hydroxytryptophan. However, no 5-hydroxytryptamine-like immunoreactive neurons were observed after incubation with L-tryptophan, the other 5-hydroxytryptamine precursor molecule. Under all of the conditions described, some small, 5-hydroxytryptamine-like immunofluorescent cells, very similar to the catecholamine-containing, small intensely fluorescent cells of the heart, were observed in culture. Bright, 5-hydroxytryptamine-like immunoreactive endothelial cells were seen only in cultures maintained in defined medium and loaded with 5-hydroxytryptamine. The present study shows that some intracardiac neurons are amine-handling, and also raises the possibility that 5-hydroxytryptamine is utilized as a neurotransmitter or neuromodulator by these neurons in the mammalian heart. Further, there is evidence to suggest that two populations of small intensely fluorescent cells, one containing 5-hydroxytryptamine, the other a catecholamine, are present in the heart; and to indicate that atrial endothelial cells can take up 5-hydroxytryptamine.
Localization of indoleamine and protein synthesis in the mammalian pineal gland.	In a table, conditions and compounds have been listed either known or suggested to influence pineal function. In the same model, systems and organs and their products are indicated the function or, respectively, the quantity of which are known or suggested to be influenced by pineal secretory substances. Of the latter, indoleamines and polypeptides are mentioned only although it is now known that also other low molecular weight biologically active compounds are produced by the gland. Problems relating to the localization of indoleamine and protein synthesis in the pinealocyte are discussed. The synthesis of indoleamines, at least of serotonin, may occur freely in the cytosol although, especially in non-mammals, the presence of serotonin seems to be preferentially, but perhaps secondarily, related to the secretory dense-core vesicles. Questions concerning the exact function of pineal melatonin are shortly dealt with. The granules of the secretory vesicles probably also contain a proteinaceous substance which, notwithstanding its unknown chemical nature, has been considered the antigonadotropic principle by some authors. Recent investigations on the production of active proteinaceous compounds in cisterns of the endoplasmic reticulum and between the layers of the nuclear envelope are reviewed. These substances are not concentrated in secretory granular vesicles, so scarce in the pinealocyte which proteinaceous active principle is produced in still largely unsolved as is their exact chemical composition.
Quipazine antagonizing baclofen activity. Influence of baclofen and gamma-hydroxybutyric acid on serotonin metabolism in rat brain (author's transl)]	Baclofen increases the concentration of serotonin (5-HT) and 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid (5-HIAA) in the rat c. striatum without causing concomitant increase in 5-HT biosynthesis. The effect of baclofen on 5-HIAA, but not that on 5-HT, was antagonized dose-dependently by quipazine. It is assumed that quipazine acts by stimulating 5-HT autoreceptors.
Effects of serotonin synthesis inhibition on sleep in hippocampectomized rats.	In adult rats an anterodorsal bilateral hippocampectomy produced an increase in motor activity without modification of the amount of the different sleep stages. In hippocampectomized rats p-chlorophenylalanine produced an insomnia which can be reversed by 5-HTP. These results show that the insomnia produced by brain serotonin depletion is not a result of the hyperactivity produced by the treatments which cause such depletion.
Fenfluramine inhibits insulin secretion and potentiates glucagon release by the perfused rat pancreas.	Fenfluramine, an anorectic used in the treatment of obesity, in a final concentration of 1 mM strongly inhibited both phases of insulin release by the perfused rat pancreas. Insulin secretion resumed promptly after cessation of the drug infusion. This concentration of the drug markedly increased glucagon output. The blockade of alpha-adrenergic receptors and the use of antiserotonin agents did not alter the inhibitory effect of fenfluramine on insulin secretion. It is concluded that in the perfused rat pancreas 1 mM fenfluramine acutely inhibits glucose-induced insulin secretion and potentiates glucagon output. The direct effect of fenfluramine on insulin secretion is not related to alpha-adrenergic activity, nor is it mediated by serotonin.
Adrenocorticoids control 5-hydroxytryptamine metabolism in rat brain.	The influence of surgical adrenalectomy was examined on the biosynthetic capacity for 5-hydroxytryptamine of rat brain. The results demonstrate that adrenalectomy decreased tryptophan hydroxylase activity and its substrate tryptophan in the brain stem. A parallel change in the concentration of 5-hydroxytryptamine was seen in brain stem and striatal region of adrenalectomized rats. In contrast, the level of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid was significantly elevated in both of these brain regions. Replacement therapy with corticosterone (10 mg/kg i.p.) produced time-dependent increases in tryptophan, tryptophan hydroxylase and 5-hydroxytryptamine and decreases in 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid levels. Alterations in these neurochemical parameters were more conspicuous in adrenalectomized rats receiving corticosterone for 7 days as compared to those given only for 3 days. Our data demonstrate that adrenocortical hormones regulate brain 5-hydroxytryptamine synthesis probably by enhancing both the levels of tryptophan and the activity of rate-limiting enzyme tryptophan hydroxylase. It is postulated that emotional instability seen during altered adrenocortical function might partly be associated with abnormal metabolism of central 5-hydroxytryptamine.
Stimulation of cerebral acetylcholinesterase activity by calcitonin: a possible mediation by 5-hydroxytryptamine.	The stimulatory effect of calcitonin on cerebral acetylcholinesterase activity could not be observed in rats pretreated with p-chlorophenylalanine. The results suggest that the response of the enzyme activity to calcitonin is 5-hydroxytryptamine-mediated.
Synthesis and turnover of 3H-5-hydroxytryptamine in the later cerebroventricle.	The lateral cerebroventricle was perfused using two different labelling procedures in three separate experiments on 5-hydroxytryptamine metabolism. The sensitivity of 5-hydroxytryptamine metabolism to various drugs was subsequently determined. The results demonstrate that two serotonin reuptake blockers, imipramine and fluoxetine, increase the efflux of 3h-5-hydroxytryptamine into the ventricle without affecting the efflux of 3H-5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid. BL-3912 A, a drug with weak serotonin agonist activity, also increased the efflux of 3H-5-hydroxytryptamine into the ventricle.
Plasma amino acid responses in humans to evening meals of differing nutritional composition.	The effect of a carbohydrate or a 20% protein (HP) or a carbohydrate + 0.4% tryptophan (TRP) evening meal on plasma amino acids and on plasma neutral amino acid (NAA) ratios was studied in eight healthy men. After consumption of the protein meal, plasma amino acids rose after 1 h and remained at the same level at 2 h. The dietary profile of the essential amino acids, except for TRP, was retained in the plasma. The plasma profile of nonessential amino acids was not related to the dietary pattern. Glutamic acid and aspartic acid increased several-fold less and alanine several-fold more than would be expected from their dietary concentrations. The tyrosine/NAA and phenylalanine/NAA ratios were not altered by any of the meals and the TRP/NAA ratio was increased only by the carbohydrate + 0.4% TRP meal. The leucine/NAA and isoleucine/NAA ratios were decreased by the carbohydrate and carbohydrate + TRP and increased by the 20% protein meals, while valine/NAA was decreased by the carbohydrate + TRP and HP but increased by the carbohydrate meal. From these data it is concluded that if brain neurotransmitter synthesis is controlled by the same mechanisms as in rats, then the evening meal containing added TRP was the only one of the meals likely to affect brain neurotransmitter (serotonin) synthesis.
In vitro development of Xenopus skin glands producing 5-hydroxytryptamine and caerulein.	The granular glands of amphibian skin synthesize and store a large amount of bioactive amines and peptides which are structurally similar to mammalian brain-gut peptides. To investigate the development of peptide- and amine-producing cells in the granular glands, pieces of dorsal skin taken at various stages from Xenopus laevis tadpoles were cultured, and the contents of caerulein and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) were measured. When pieces of skin from tadpoles at stages 57 to 60 (Nieuwkoop and Faber stages) were cultured in a medium containing 10% fetal calf serum (FCS medium) or one containing FCS treated with charcoal (chFCS medium), the caerulein and 5-HT levels were increased for the six days of the incubation period. The caerulein content was lower in the chFCS medium than in the FCS medium. Addition of thyroxine to the chFCS medium had no significant effect on the caerulein content. These results show that the caerulein- and 5-HT-producing cells of the granular glands can develop in a culture system with FCS- or chFCS-containing media, and suggest that FCS contains substances which are absorbed by charcoal and stimulate development of the amine- and peptide-producing cells of the glands. In a preliminary search for correlation between caerulein and 5-HT synthesis, addition of 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP), a precursor to 5-HT, to the FCS medium increased 5-HT content and, conversely, caused significant decrease in caerulein content, suggesting that accumulation of caerulein in the granular glands is influenced by the amount of 5-HT synthesis. These studies indicate that this culture system is a useful model for investigating the development of peptide- and amine-producing cells.
Stress-dependent changes in fibrinolysis, serotonin and platelet aggregation in rats.	The effects of different kinds of acute stress on collagen-induced whole blood platelet aggregation and fibrinolysis in relation to blood serotonergic measures were studied. In rats water-immersion restraint stress resulted in a shortening of euglobulin clot lysis time (ECLT), an increase in tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) activity with a concurrent fall in its inhibitor activity. Footshock caused rather a suppression in fibrinolysis with a prolongation of ECLT and a decline in tPA activity as well as a reduction in whole blood platelet aggregation induced by collagen. Serotonin (5-HT) level, a marker of a severity of stress, increased after footshock application with a concomitant rise in its major metabolite-5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA). This indicates an enhanced 5-HT metabolism. Following water-immersion restraint stress 5-HT and 5-HIAA levels did not differ from controls. In both groups of stressed animals an inverse correlation between tPA activity and blood serotonin was observed. Our data indicate that these types of stress may influence either fibrinolysis or peripheral serotonergic mechanism in different ways. Acute and severe stress such as footshock by causing an impairment in fibrinolysis and a rise in 5-HT may contribute to the pathogenesis of thrombosis and henceforth to the development of atherosclerosis.
In vivo rate of serotonin synthesis in brain and spinal cord of young, spontaneously hypertensive rats.	The accumulation of 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP) following decarboxylase inhibition was measured in hypothalamus (HYP), pons-medulla (PM) and spinal cord (SC) of 4- and 8-week-old spontaneously hypertensive (SH) and normotensive (WKY) rats. Using this method, a significant increase in the in vivo activity of tryptophan hydroxylase was observed in the PM and SC of 4-week-old, but not 8-week-old SH rats. These findings show a transient elevation in rate of 5-HT synthesis prior to the onset of hypertension, which does not appear to continue during the maintenance phase.
Serotonin and bulimia nervosa.	Serotonin (5HT) is one of several neuromodulators of feeding. Experimentally reducing 5HT activity in animals increases food intake, while increasing 5HT activity has the opposite effect. Studies suggest that women with bulimia nervosa show signs of reduced 5HT activity, which may be related to binge eating. Data supporting the theory that reduced central nervous system 5HT activity may play a role in the pathophysiology of bulimia nervosa is reviewed. Disturbances of 5HT activity and the relationship to other psychopathology in bulimia nervosa, such as depression, substance abuse, and impulsivity, are also reviewed.
Serotonin-producing cells during normo- and hypothermia]	Ultrastructure of the serotonin-producing (EC) duodenum cells of a hibernant in euthermia (in summer and winter) and hypothermia has been studied. It has been found that EC cells of an active summer and spontaneously arousal animals belong to active population. This cells have protein-synthetic activity. The winter cells are characterized by the deficiency of the synthetic processes and the secretory granules disintegration. The results support the hypothesis that ES cells are an important element in the regulation of the hibernation.
Tryptophan depletion in patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder who respond to serotonin reuptake inhibitors.	The effects of short-term tryptophan depletion were examined in 15 patients with DSM-III-R obsessive-compulsive disorder who had demonstrated symptom reduction following treatment with serotonin reuptake inhibitors. Patients received a 24-hour, low-tryptophan (160-mg/d) diet followed the next morning by a drink of 15 amino acids. A double-blind, placebo-controlled cross-over design was used.
Commonalities in vasoactive intestinal peptide and peptide N-terminal histidine C-terminal isoleucine stimulation of N-acetyltransferase activity in the rat pineal.	Exposure of adult rat pineal glands in organ culture to the polypeptides vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), and peptide N-terminal histidine C-terminal isoleucine (PHI) increases pineal serotonin N-acetyltransferase (NAT) activity and melatonin synthesis. The following research results are taken to indicate that VIP and PHI share common components of the NAT induction system: (1) The effects of the two peptides are additive at concentrations of 10 nM VIP and 100 nM PHI but not at higher peptide concentrations. (2) Pineals from newborns also respond to PHI with a dose dependent increase in NAT activity. NAT responses are additive at the same concentrations as seen with the adult pineals. (3) Light exposure affects the sensitivity of pineals to VIP and PHI stimulation in a similar manner; pineals taken after 3 hr of light are much less sensitive to PHI or VIP than those taken after 13 hr of light. (4) Pineals exposed for 48 hr to either PHI or VIP have a reduced NAT response to either agonist, which is reversible by culture in agonist-free media. (5) Neither VIP nor PHI stimulation of NAT activity is affected by concentrations of the VIP antagonists (N-Ac-Tyr1,D-Phe2)-GRF(1-29)-NH2 (NAcTDGRF), L-8-K, VIP-Neurotensin Hybrid (VIPNET), or (4Cl-D-Phe6, Leu17)-VIP (4C1PLVIP), which affect VIP binding or function in other tissues.
p-Chlorophenylalanine, a serotonin synthesis inhibitor, reduces the response of glial fibrillary acidic protein induced by trauma to the spinal cord. An immunohistochemical investigation in the rat.	The possibility that serotonin may influence the early response of astrocytes around a spinal cord trauma was investigated in a rat model by making a unilateral incision into the right dorsal horn of the T10-11 segments. One group of rats received a serotonin synthesis inhibitor, p-chlorophenylalanine (p-CPA) before injury in doses which cause a depletion of serotonin in the cord. Another group of traumatised rats did not receive p-CPA. All animals were allowed to survive for 5 h. Samples for immunohistochemistry were taken from the T9, T10-11 and T12 segments of the cord. Paraffin sections were immunostained for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) using monoclonal antibodies and avidin-biotin complex technique. Trauma to the cord resulted in a marked increase of GFAP immunoreactivity in all the investigated segments, particularly in the ipsilateral side. Pretreatment with p-CPA markedly reduced the GFAP response. This drug did not by itself influence the GFAP immunoreactivity of the cord of untraumatised rats. Our results show that trauma to the spinal cord induces a rapid enhancement of GFAP immunoreactivity in the cord which is present even far away from the primary lesion. This response can be prevented by pretreatment with the serotonin synthesis inhibitor, p-CPA. The results indicate that serotonin influences the increase of GFAP immunoreactivity following spinal cord injury either directly or indirectly, for instance by its microvascular reactions.
Development of neurochemical and behavioral sensitivity to ethanol in long-sleep and short-sleep mice.	The postnatal development of certain neurochemical correlates of CNS ethanol sensitivity was examined in the long-sleep (LS) and short-sleep (SS) mice. The differences in sensitivity to the motor-incoordinating and hypothermic effects of ethanol emerged during the second and third weeks of life. Prior studies have shown the sleep time differences between LS and SS mice became significant at 8-10 days of age whereas the present results established that the differences in ethanol-induced hypothermia became prominent at 12-16 days of age. Previous results from our laboratory suggested that the greater CNS ethanol behavioral sensitivity (sleep time and hypothermia) of LS mice is related to the greater ethanol-induced depression of brain monoamine synthesis in the LS line. The timing of the developmental changes in neurochemical ethanol sensitivity in LS and SS mice was found to parallel that found in the development of behavioral ethanol sensitivity as follows. Ethanol-induced decreases in in vivo tyrosine hydroxylase activity in the cerebellum, hypothalamus, and brain stem did not differ between LS and SS mice at postnatal day 8, but became substantially greater in LS mice between postnatal days 8 and 12, coincident with the appearance of the greater sleep times of LS mice. Likewise, ethanol-induced decreases in in vivo tryptophan hydroxylase activity in the dorsal raphe and hypothalamus, which were similar in LS and SS mice at postnatal days 8 and 12, became significantly greater in LS mice by postnatal day 16, the age at which their increased sensitivity to ethanol-induced hypothermia appeared.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Distribution of serotonin and synthesizing enzymes in discrete areas of the brain.	With the use of sensitive radio-enzymatic microtechniques, serotonin and its synthesizing enzymes, tryptophan hydroxylase and L-amino acid decarboxylase, can be quantitatively detected in discrete regions of the rat brain. A microdissecting technique allows us to study their localization in specific brain areas and nuclei. Serotonin and its related enzymes are concentrated in the raphe nuclei. Relatively high serotonin concentrations are also present in areas and nuclei of the hypothalamus, limbic system, and brain stem, as well as in the circumventricular organs and the pituitary gland. The localization of its synthesizing enzymes in the same regions suggests that the formation of serotonin actually takes place in these areas. Catecholamines are also present in the raphe nuclei of the rat. Changes in catecholamine metabolism result in changes in serotonin levels in specific brain areas. These results suggest that serotonin may be involved in the regulation of a number of autonomic functions, and in neuroendocrine control mechanisms. The neuroanatomical and biochemical relations between the catecholaminergic and serotonergic system in the brain support the hypothesis of a physiological interaction of these two systems in specific, localized brain structures.
Tryptophan and tonic immobility in chickens: effects of dietary and systemic manipulations.	Consistent with a serotonergic-midbrain raphe model of tonic immobility, four experiments designed to affect changes in serum tryptophan produced reliable effects on the duration of the response in chickens. Systemic injections of tryptophan, the dietary precursor to serotonin, led to a dose-dependent increase in immobility, with optimal effects being observed within 30 min after injection. Dietary depletion of endogenous tryptophan served to attenuate the duration of immobility, and a diet completely free of tryptophan, but supplemented with niacin, practically abolished the reaction. Dietary replacement served to reinstate the response. In a fifth experiment, tryptamine, an alternative metabolic by-product of tryptophan, was found to have no effect on immobility. The data are discussed in light of evidence showing serotonergic involvement in tonic immobility.
Tramadol induces antidepressant-type effects in mice.	Tramadol is a clinically-effective, centrally-acting analgesic. This drug is a racemic mixture of two enantiomers, each one displaying different mechanisms: (+)tramadol displays opioid agonist properties and inhibits serotonin reuptake while (-)tramadol inhibit preferentially noradrenaline reuptake. The action of tramadol on the monoaminergic reuptake is similar to that of antidepressant drugs. Therefore, we have examined the effects of (+/-)tramadol, (+)tramadol and (-)tramadol in a test predictive of antidepressant activity, the forced swimming test in mice. Both (+/-)tramadol and its (-) enantiomer displayed a dose-dependent reduction on immobility; while the effect induced by the (+) enantiomer was not significant. Inhibition of noradrenaline synthesis, but not of serotonin synthesis, was capable of blocking the effect of (+/-)tramadol. The alpha-adrenoceptor antagonist phentolamine, as well as the alpha2-adrenergic antagonist yohimbine, and the beta-adrenoceptor blocker propranolol countered the immobility-reducing action of (+/-)tramadol. Moreover, neither the serotoninergic blocker methysergide nor the opioid antagonist naloxone antagonized the effect of (+/-)tramadol. Our results show that (+/-)tramadol and (-)tramadol have antidepressant-like effect in mice, probably mediated by the noradrenergic system rather than the serotoninergic or opioidergic ones.
Serotonin is not synthesized, but specifically transported in the neurons of the hypothalamic dorsomedial nucleus.	A small group of neurons in the hypothalamic dorsomedial nucleus (DMN) have been reported to contain serotonin after pharmacological treatments enhancing brain serotonin levels. This study aimed at elucidating whether these neurons are able to synthesize serotonin de novo, and whether they possess a specific serotonin transport mechanism. Serotonin content in these neurons was raised by administration of L-tryptophan and pargyline. Double immunostaining for serotonin and tryptophan hydroxylase (TpOH), the serotonin synthesizing enzyme, revealed that none of the serotonin-containing neuronal somata expressed TpOH. Intracerebroventricular colchicine treatment did not result in TpOH-IR in these neurons. Fluoxetine, a specific serotonin transport inhibitor, prevented the accumulation of serotonin in these neurons. The present results thus indicate that the serotonin-containing DMN neurons are not able to synthesize serotonin. Instead, they take up exogenous serotonin via a specific serotonin transport mechanism. As serotonin and DMN are associated with various physiological functions, such as regulation of food intake and modulation of fear and anxiety, the mechanisms revealed in the present study may participate in these clinically important brain functions.
Image generation of serotonin synthesis rates using alpha-methyltryptophan and PET.	We sought to create functional images of the serotonin (5-HT) synthesis rate obtained with alpha-[11C]methyl-L-tryptophan (alpha-MTrp) and PET and standardize them into the stereotaxic coordinate system.
Effects of cocaethylene on dopamine and serotonin synthesis in Long-Evans and Sprague-Dawley brains.	We examined the behavioral and neurochemical effects of cocaethylene treatment in Long-Evans (LE) and Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats. Cocaethylene-induced behaviors were significantly less in LE rats. Cocaethylene caused an inhibition of dopamine synthesis in the caudate nucleus and nucleus accumbens that was equivalent in both rat lines. Serotonin synthesis was also suppressed by cocaethylene treatment, however this phenomenon was less pronounced when compared with the effects on dopamine synthesis.
Validation of a less-invasive method for measurement of serotonin synthesis rate with alpha-[11C]methyl-tryptophan.	We tested in normal human subjects a less invasive method to obtain plasma input function required in the calculation of the brain serotonin synthesis rate measured with positron emission tomography (PET) and alpha-[11C]methyl-tryptophan (alpha-MTrp). The synthesis rates derived with the arterial input function were compared to those derived from venous plasma and venous sinus time-radioactivity curves obtained from dynamic PET images. Dynamic PET images were obtained for the lengths up to 90 minutes after an injection of alpha-MTrp (400 to 800 MBq). Input functions were generated from both artery and vein in three subjects, and from artery only in two subjects. Net unidirectional uptake constants of alpha-MTrp (K*; mL/g/min) were calculated in several brain regions graphically using data between 20 and 60 minutes after injection with different input functions. In the five subjects with arterial sampling, we tested two methods for correcting the input functions from the venous samples: (1) normalization to the mean exposure time at 20 minutes from arterial curve; and (2) the use of the venous sinus curve for the first 20 minutes. Venous curves coincided with the arterial ones after about 20 minutes. When the venous curves were used, there was an underestimation of the area under the curves up to 20 minutes, resulting in a 5% to 30% overestimation of K* values. Combined use of the sinus curve up to 20 minutes and venous curve from 20 to 60 minutes as an input function resulted in the K* (mL/g/min) values larger by 7.1 +/- 3.8% than the K* values estimated with the arterial input function. Normalization of the venous curve to the exposure time at 20 minutes obtained from the arterial plasma curve resulted in a bias in the K* of about -0.34 +/- 3.32%. The bias from the K* values was propagated to the serotonin synthesis rates. The use of a combination of the venous blood samples and venous sinus as the input function resulted in an acceptable bias in the serotonin synthesis rates from the tissue time-radioactivity curves generated by PET.
Brain serotonin synthesis rates in rhesus monkeys determined by [11C]alpha-methyl-L-tryptophan and positron emission tomography compared to CSF 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid concentrations.	Twelve male, fasted, anesthetized rhesus monkeys were studied with positron emission tomography (PET) and [11C]alpha-methyl-L-tryptophan (alpha MTP) to determine serotonin synthesis rates as described by Diksic et al. (1991). It was expected that the serotonin synthesis rates determined for the whole brain would be correlated with CSF 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid concentrations, a measure of central serotonin turnover, because both measures were obtained at steady state. However, no significant correlation was found. During data analysis, it was noticed that the calculated serotonin synthesis rates were significantly correlated to free plasma tryptophan (TP) concentrations (r = 0.88, p < .001). From repeat scans conducted in six monkeys, it was determined that day-to-day variability in free plasma TP and the percentage of protein binding (average percent difference was 48 and 37%, respectively) produced most of the variability in the calculated serotonin synthesis rates (50%); repeat K images, obtained from the PET data alone, differed by only 11%. Calculated serotonin synthesis rates reported for [11C]alpha MTP PET studies of humans (Nishizawa et al. 1997) and dogs (Diksic et al. 1991) were also highly correlated to reported differences in plasma free TP concentrations. It seems that the [11C]alpha MTP model for the computation of serotonin synthesis rates is very dependent on plasma free TP concentration and that it may not accurately determine actual serotonin synthesis rates.
Extrapineal melatonin and exogenous serotonin in seasonal affective disorder.	Visible light inhibits the binding of melatonin and serotonin to cultured human peripheral blood mononuclear leukocytes (PBMLs) in winter. The decreased binding switches the metabolism in PBMLs towards serotonin synthesis, resulting in the reduced production of melatonin. The ingestion of L-tryptophan during the day is hypothesized to increase the levels of melatonin, released from the gastrointestinal tract, in patients with winter seasonal affective disorder (SAD). Due to the relative shortage of light, coincident with a predisposed metabolic error, there would be no switch towards serotonin synthesis among winter SAD patients in winter. The rate of serotonin synthesis could thus remain inadequately low to maintain optimal mood in winter SAD patients.
