Haemolytic and proteolytic properties of Serratia spp. rods]	For over fifty years Serratia spp. rods have increasingly been isolated from clinical specimens. The isolation has arisen mainly from hospitalised patients. The development of Serratia spp. infections is associated with predisposing factors of patients, occurrence in both natural settings and within the hospital environment and the virulence factors of bacteria. CDM medium with casein sodium salt, gelatine and Skim Milk were used to detect proteolytic properties. Over 95% of analysed strains produced gelatinase. Casein sodium salt was hydrolysed by 89,6% to 93,1% of strains depending on cultivation temperature. Skim Milk was hydrolysed by 78,5% to 84,7% of analysed Serratia spp. strains. Haemolytic properties of Serratia spp. rods were checked on a solid medium with human and sheep red blood cells at 22, 30, and 37 degrees C. The haemolysis of human erythrocytes at 37 degrees C was detected most frequently at 38,2%. There were no significant differences identified when cultivation temperature was observed.
Biodegradation of beta-cypermethrin by two Serratia spp. with different cell surface hydrophobicity.	Serratia spp. strain JC1 and JCN13, isolated from activated sludge, could degrade and utilize beta-cypermethrin (beta-CP) as the sole carbon and energy sources for growth in the minimal salt media (MSM). The two strains could effectively degrade beta-CP with total inocula biomass 0.1-0.3g dry wtL(-1), at 20-38 degrees C, pH 6-9, initial beta-CP 25-1000mgL(-1) and metabolize it by cleavage of ester and diphenyl ether to yield 3-phenoxybenzoic acid (3-PBA) and phenol, then completely mineralize it. Response surface methodology (RSM) was used to optimize degradation conditions. Under their own optimal degradation conditions, strain JC1 could degrade 92% beta-CP within 10days and the degradation rate of strain JCN13 reached 89% within 4days. Cell surface hydrophobicity (CSH) and biodegradation assays indicated that JCN13 has higher hydrophobicity and degradation ability than JC1, and it means the high hydrophobicity of strains could enhance the degradation of beta-CP.
Recent data about microorganisms of the genus Serratia (author's transl]	The Authors on the basis of most recent references, expose the epidemiological, cultural, biochemical and taxonomical characteristics of microorganisms of the genus Serratia. In addition the most recent data regarding the typing and the sensitivity to antibacterial agents are discussed.
Serratia ficaria: a misidentified or unidentified rare cause of human infections in fig tree culture zones.	Serratia ficaria, an enterobacterium involved in the fig tree ecosystem, has been isolated from human clinical samples in rare instances, and its role as a pathogen is unclear. In 7 years, we have isolated S. ficaria from seven patients; it was the only pathogen in 4 patients, including a patient with septicemia described previously and three patients with gallbladder empyemas described in the present report. From March 1995 to July 1997, the incidence of biliary infections due to S. ficaria was 0.7%. We discuss the digestive carriage of this bacterium and its epidemiology with respect to the fig tree life cycle. Since fig trees grow around the Mediterranean as well as in the United States (California, Louisiana, Hawaii), S. ficaria should be more frequently isolated. In our experience, various strains have been misidentified or unidentified by commercial systems. Incorrect identification could be an additional explanation for the paucity of reported cases. S. ficaria produces nonpigmented, lactose-negative colonies which give off a potatolike odor. This odor is the primary feature of S. ficaria and must prompt reexamination of the identifications proposed by commercial systems. We tested 42 novel strains using three commercial systems: Vitek gram-negative identification (GNI) cards and API 20E and ID 32E strips (bioMérieux, Marcy-l'Etoile, France). The percentages of positivity that we have obtained were lower than those published previously for the following characteristics: lipase, gelatinase, DNase, and rhamnose. The best system for the recognition of S. ficaria is ID 32E, which correctly identified 27 of 42 strains. The API 20E system gave correct identifications for only two strains. S. ficaria was not present in the Vitek GNI card system database.
