Improvement in liver fibrosis, functionality and hemodynamics in CCI4-cirrhotic rats after injection of the Liver Growth Factor.	Most substances used in experimental models of cirrhosis are chosen either as protectors of lipid peroxidation, as antifibrogenic agents or as vitamins, among others. In this report, we analyze the improvement produced, in established cirrhosis (CCl4 plus phenobarbital) in rats, by intraperitoneal injection of Liver Growth Factor, a hepatic mitogen with activity both in vivo and in vitro.
The role of endogenous opioids in moderate exercise training-induced enhancement of the secondary antibody response in mice.	Moderate exercise training (60%-80% of maximal oxygen uptake) enhances the secondary antibody response. The mechanism underlying this enhancement, however, has not been determined. In moderate doses, endogenous opioids such as enkephalins enhance antibody response. Furthermore, serum concentrations of endogenous opioids increase in response to exercise, and training programs augment this effect. Therefore, the enhancement of the secondary antibody response induced by moderate exercise may be brought about, in part, by endogenous opioids. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of naltrexone (an opioid antagonist) on the enhancement of secondary antibody response induced by moderate exercise in young mice.
Assessment of left atrial appendage filling pattern by using intravenous administration of microbubbles: comparison between mitral stenosis and mitral regurgitation.	Mitral stenosis (MS) and mitral regurgitation (MR) are the most frequent conditions that cause a dilation and dysfunction of the left atrial appendage (LAA). Despite similarly dilated LAA in patients with MS and MR, the incidence of LAA thrombi and the risk of thromboembolism is different between these patients. The purpose of this study was to characterize the filling pattern of LAA by using intravenous administration of perfluorocarbon-exposed dextrose albumin (PESDA) during transesophageal echocardiographic examination in patients with MS and MR. Twenty-four patients with moderate to severe MS, 12 patients with severe MR, and a control group including 30 patients with conditions other than mitral valve disease underwent transesophageal echocardiographic examination with an intravenous bolus injection of PESDA. LAA emptying and filling velocities and maximal and minimal areas of LAA and LAA ejection fraction were measured. Digital gray-scale intensity (GSI) of the left atrial (LA) and LAA cavity after PESDA injection was measured by off-line analysis. Compared with control patients, patients with MS or MR had larger maximal and minimal areas of LAA and reduced LAA ejection fraction. LAA peak emptying flow velocity was significantly lower in patients with MS compared with those of MR or control patients. LAA peak filling velocity was significantly lower in patients with MS compared with that of control patients. However, there was no significant difference of LAA peak filling velocity between the patients with MS and MR. There was no significant difference of GSI ratio of LAA and LA between patients with MR and control patients; however, GSI ratio of LAA and LA was significantly lower in patients with MS compared with that of MR. The incidence of LAA spontaneous echo contrast and LAA thrombi in patients with MS was significantly higher than that of the patients with MR and control subjects (P <.005). Despite similarly dilated LAA area and depressed contractile function of LAA in patients with MS and MR compared with control patients, profoundly impaired LAA filling with resultant flow stasis was demonstrated by contrast echocardiography in patients with MS. These findings may explain the higher incidence of LAA spontaneous echo contrast and thrombus in patients with MS.
The metabolic fate of the Anti-HIV active drug carrier succinylated human serum albumin after intravenous administration in rats.	The pharmacokinetics and metabolic fate of the intrinsically active (anti-HIV) drug carrier succinylated human serum albumin (Suc-HSA) was studied in rats. Suc-HSA was prepared by derivatizing HSA with 1,4-[14C]-succinic anhydride, a modification by which all available epsilon NH2-groups in HSA were converted into carboxylic groups. After i.v. injections of 0.3, 1.0, 3.0 and 10.0 mg/kg in freely moving rats, Suc-HSA showed a dose dependent elimination pattern, indicating a saturable elimination pathway. The Michaelis-Menten parameters Vmax and Km were 98.7 micrograms.min-1.kg-1 and 8.5 micrograms.ml-1 respectively. The kinetics of Suc-HSA was influenced by anaesthesia. In anaesthetised animals, Vmax and Km were found to be 26.9 micrograms.min-1.kg-1 and 0.26 microgram.ml-1, respectively. This implies an intrinsic clearance of 100 ml.min-1.kg-1, which is about 10-fold higher as compared to 12 ml.min-1.kg-1 in freely moving animals. Intravenous administration of a sub-saturable dose of 3.0 mg.kg-1 1,4-[14C]-Suc-HSA to freely moving rats resulted in a biphasic elimination with an initial t 1/2 of 20 min and a terminal t 1/2 of 40 hrs. Excretion of metabolites in urine and faeces lasted for at least 48 hours. About 70% of the radioactive dose was excreted in urine, whereas maximally 2% was detected in faeces. Suc-HSA was degraded to its individual amino acids including succinylated lysine (the only radioactive product formed). Succinylated lysine was not further metabolised and mainly excreted via the urine. Immunohistochemical staining showed that even after 48 hrs Suc-HSA could be detected in livers. Together with the urinary excretion patterns, this points to a gradual degradation of Suc-HSA.
Pulmonary and extrapulmonary effects of increased colloid osmotic pressure during endotoxemia in rats.	We tested the hypothesis that an increase in the blood colloid osmotic pressure (COP) that is maintained during early-stage endotoxemia may decrease fluid flux across capillaries and may reduce pulmonary and multiple-organ edema.
A novel intraarterial chemotherapy using paclitaxel in albumin nanoparticles to treat advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue: preliminary findings.	The purpose of our study was to evaluate the effectiveness of intraarterial infusion of paclitaxel incorporated into human albumin nanoparticles for use as induction chemotherapy before definitive treatment of advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue.
The pharmacokinetic and biological activity profile of dexamethasone targeted to sinusoidal endothelial and Kupffer cells.	Dexamethasone (Dexa) was coupled to human serum albumin (Dexa10-HSA) for the targeting of this anti-inflammatory drug to Kupffer cells (KC) and sinusoidal endothelial cells (SEC) in the liver: key players in the pathogenesis of acute and chronic inflammatory liver diseases like fibrosis. Cell-specific delivery of Dexa may increase its efficacy and prevent side effects. We, therefore, studied the pharmacokinetic profile, efficacy, and toxicity of Dexa10-HSA in bile duct ligation (BDL)-induced fibrosis in rats.
Enhanced detection of malignant glioma xenograft by fluorescein-human serum albumin conjugate.	During the surgical resection of malignant gliomas, it is important to make clear the border zone between the tumor tissue and normal brain tissue. For this purpose, we conjugated fluorescein and human serum albumin (FLS-HSA) and compared its effectiveness against that of fluorescein-sodium (FLS-Na) alone in detecting human glioma xenografts in SCID mice through a fluorescence microscope.
Human albumin and starch administration in critically ill patients: a prospective randomized clinical trial.	To determine whether intravenous infusion of either human albumin or hydroxyethyl-starch (HES) in hypo-albuminemic critically ill may lead to an increase in colloid osmotic pressure and to a better clinical outcome, i.e. lower mortality and fewer complications, compared to fluid replacement with normal saline.
Novel polyelectrolyte carboxymethyl konjac glucomannan-chitosan nanoparticles for drug delivery. II. Release of albumin in vitro.	Carboxymethyl konjac glucomannan-chitosan (CKGM-CS) nanoparticles were spontaneously prepared under very mild conditions via polyelectrolyte complexation. Bovine serum albumin (BSA), as a model protein drug, was incorporated into the CKGM-CS nanoparticles. The physicochemical properties of the BSA-loaded nanoparticles were identified by Zetasizer 3000 and FTIR spectrophotometry. Their sizes were from 330 nm to 900 nm; zeta potentials were positive according to varies CKGM/CS ratios. The encapsulation efficiency was up 20%. The release behavior in vitro of BSA from the nanoparticles was also investigated. We could find that the BSA release from the CKGM-CS nanoparticles is much more influenced by the CS coating layer than by the CKGM inner structure. And the CKGM-CS matrices not only exhibited pH-responsive properties, but ionic strength-sensitive properties. These systems may present a potential for pulsatile protein drug delivery.
Evaluating proteins release from, and their interactions with, thermosensitive poly (N-isopropylacrylamide) hydrogels.	Poly (N-isopropylacrylamide) (PNIPAAm) hydrogels possess a lower critical solution temperature (LCST) at around 32 degrees C. When the external temperature is raised above the LCST, the hydrogels experience abrupt and drastic shrinkage. This unique property makes them very useful for biomedical applications such as on-off switches for modulated drug delivery and tissue engineering. The aim of this work was to study the potential of using PNIPAAm hydrogels for protein delivery, and to obtain basic understandings of the protein-gel interactions as well as their effect on protein loading and release. PNIPAAm gels were synthesized with different crosslinker contents. The effects of crosslinker content, in vitro release temperature, protein loading level and molecular size as well as temperature cycling on protein release from PNIPAAm gels were examined. Greater amount of BSA was loaded using gels fabricated with lower crosslinker contents and loading solution with higher concentrations of BSA. An incomplete release of encapsulated BSA from the gels was observed in all cases. Enhanced mass transfer created by oscillating swelling-deswelling in response to temperature cycling across the LCST and lowering in vitro release temperature did not promote BSA release because of strong BSA-gel interactions. Evidence for the residual BSA in the gels after in vitro release was provided by dyeing the gels with protein determination reagent and shift in the LCST of the gels. In contrast, insulin release was much faster and more complete when compared to BSA because of its smaller size. The protein-gel interactions were analysed by investigating the LCST of, and state of water in, the blank and protein-loaded hydrogels.
The use of albumin in patients with decompensated cirrhosis: the case in favor.	In conclusion, in the course of patients with advanced liver disease there are several indications for institution of intravenous albumin. These include: a) enhancement of diuretic effect on mobilization of ascites fluid, b) prevention of post-paracentesis circulatory dysfunction after total/large volume paracentesis, c) prevention of hepatorenal syndrome in patients affected with SBP, and d) administration of albumin in combination with vasoconstrictor drugs as the only effective therapy for hepatorenal syndrome. Albumin is relatively inexpensive and can be given in an outpatient setting.
Induction of tissue factor activity in endothelial cells and monocytes by a modified form of albumin present in normal human plasma.	Molecules that induce tissue factor expression by responsive cells such as endothelial cells and monocytes may be important in the regulation of hemostasis and, perhaps, in mediating certain hemostatic disorders. A constituent of normal human plasma capable of inducing tissue factor activity in human endothelial cells and monocytes has been isolated and identified as a derivative of, or modification associated with albumin. Procoagulant albumin caused a concentration-dependent induction of tissue factor expression by human endothelial cells, but bovine endothelial cells were unresponsive. The dose-response curve developed a plateau phase, indicating that the capacity of endothelial cells to respond to the stimulus was finite. The maximum response induced by the procoagulant albumin was similar to that observed for maximally effective concentrations of endotoxin, interleukin-1, and tumor necrosis factor. Time-course studies showed that procoagulant albumin produced peak activity in 4 to 6 hours. Identification of a procoagulant form of albumin in normal human plasma suggests a potential role for this constituent in regulation of hemostasis.
Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor stimulates mouse blastocyst inner cell mass development only when media lack human serum albumin.	The aim of the current study was to examine the effects of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) on the development and differentiation of preimplantation mouse embryos from different strains and under different culture conditions. Embryos from F1 hybrid mice were cultured in a modified G1 medium lacking amino acids and EDTA (simple G1), human tubal fluid medium (HTF) or in G1/G2 sequential media, supplemented with GM-CSF (0, 2, 4, 8, and 16 ng/ml). Embryos from CF1 mice were subsequently cultured in G1/G2 with (5 mg/ml) or without HSA, in the absence or presence of GM-CSF (2 ng/ml). GM-CSF had no effect at any concentration on F1 embryo development and blastocyst cell numbers, irrespective of the culture media used. Similarly, GM-CSF had no effect on CF1 blastocyst development. However, a stimulatory effect of GM-CSF was evident on total blastocyst cell number and ICM development when CF1 embryos were cultured in the absence of HSA. When HSA was present in the media the beneficial effect of GM-CSF was negated. There was no difference in the number of apoptotic cells in CF1 blastocysts when G1/G2 were supplemented with GM-CSF with or without HSA. These data indicate that there is no beneficial effect of supplementing either simple (simple G1 or HTF) or more complete (G1/G2) media with GM-CSF when protein is present in the medium. However, when culture conditions are suboptimal and non-physiological, i.e. the absence of protein, GM-CSF stimulates development of both total cell numbers and ICM development of CF1 blastocysts.
Virucidal efficacy of saturated intermediate length straight-chain alcohols in biologically active protein solutions.	Manufacturing processes for therapeutic products derived from recombinant DNA and hybridoma technology have required a re-assessment of the parameters traditionally applied for inactivation of endogenous viruses. Historically, time, temperature and concentration of the virucidal agent were the variables considered, whereas pH and ionic environment were restricted by physiological concerns to neutral pH and isotonic buffered solutions. Newer processes are less restrictive of pH and ionic environment, and this has permitted exploration of a wider range of virucidal agents and conditions. Intermediate length straight-chain alcohols are highly virucidal at low pH, with diminished activity at higher pH. Decreased activity was demonstrated by derivatives of the alcohols depending on the position of the hydroxyl group. Applications to proteins include monoclonal antibodies.
Value of hemodilution therapy in pregnancy]	The ability to produce a large increase in plasma volume is one of the hallmarks of a successful pregnancy. Data from Garn et al. (5), Knottnerus et al. (14) and Murphy et al. (15) have shown, that hemoglobin levels above 13 g/dl or hematocrit 38% before admittance to hospital are associated with a high incidence of IUGR (intrauterine growth retardation), gestational hypertension and with a greater perinatal mortality. Patients with an elevated viscosity and hematocrit have increased perinatal risks. In these cases the hemodilution with hydroxy- ethylstarch (HES) improves the blood flow and decreases the incidence of dysmature babies and pregnancy complications. The effect of HES on certain coagulation assays seems qualitatively similar to those of Dextran. In a prospective trial we evaluated the effect of HES in the incidence of thrombosis after cesarean section and we found a 5.9% incidence of thrombosis in patients treated with 6% HES 0.62 compared with a 7.8% incidence in heparin treated patients. Treatment with 1500 ml 6% HES 0.62 before and after cesarean section is similarly effective in preventing deep vein thrombosis as heparin prophylaxis.
Immunization of LDL receptor-deficient mice with beta2-glycoprotein 1 or human serum albumin induces a more inflammatory phenotype in atherosclerotic plaques.	Antiphospholipid antibodies are a risk factor for venous and arterial thrombosis and may contribute to the development of atherosclerosis.The aim of this study was to investigate whether antibodies to human beta2-glycoprotein 1 (beta2GP1), as a model of antiphospholipid antibodies, modify the phenotype of atherosclerotic lesions. LDL receptor-deficient mice were immunized with human beta2GP1, human serum albumin (HSA), or not immunized, and fed a high-cholesterol diet for 14 weeks. Some mice also received pravastatin. Immunization with human beta2GP1 or HSA resulted in formation of autoantibodies recognizing murine beta2GP1 or murine albumin, respectively. We quantified atherosclerotic lesion development and mRNA levels of inflammation associated proteins in the thoraco-abdominal aorta as well as lesion development,cellular composition and collagen content in the aortic roots. Immunization with beta2GP1 or HSA had no effect on lesion size,but modified the expression in plaque areas of several inflammation-associated proteins. Expression of matrix metalloproteinase-9, tissue factor, interferon-gamma and CD25 was highest in the thoraco-abdominal aorta of beta2GP1-immunized mice, lowest in non-immunized mice and intermediate in HSA-immunized animals. Immunization with beta2GP1, but not HSA, resulted in a lower smooth muscle cell and collagen content of lesions in aortic roots. Statin treatment partially reversed the effects of beta2GP1 immunization. We conclude that immunization with beta2GP1, and to a lesser extent with HSA, leads to modifications in the cellular and protein composition of atherosclerotic plaques, which are associated with a more inflammatory phenotype. Statin treatment partially prevents these changes.
Nonventilatory treatments for acute lung injury and ARDS.	Over the past decade, advances in the ventilatory management of acute lung injury (ALI) and ARDS have improved outcomes; however, until recently the search for other therapies has been less fruitful. Recently, the Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome Network Fluid and Catheter Treatment Trial reported that a conservative fluid management strategy, compared with a fluid liberal strategy, increased the mean (+/- SE) number of ventilator-free days in patients with ALI (14.6 +/- 0.5 vs 12.1 +/- 0.5 days, respectively; p < 0.001). In addition to this beneficial effect on outcomes, the study found that the conservative fluid strategy did not increase the incidence of renal failure or the development of shock. Other studies have demonstrated that albumin and furosemide therapy may be beneficial in hypoproteinemic patients with lung injury, though data on outcomes is still lacking. Although several pharmacologic therapies, such as corticosteroids, surfactant, and nitric oxide, have been demonstrated to be ineffective in improving outcomes, several promising new treatments are being investigated in ongoing or upcoming clinical trials. This article reviews these developments and other recent research on the optimal nonventilatory management of patients with ALI.
Albumin rescues ocular epithelial cells from cell death in dry eye.	Because autologous serum is useful for the treatment of severe dry eye, serum components may be a potential candidate for the treatment of dry eye. Serum albumin is abundantly contained in human serum and plays many physiologic roles. We investigated the efficacy of serum albumin in a dry eye animal model.
Lipid peroxidation in the kidneys of rats with nephritis induced by nephrotoxic serum and proteinuria induced by albumin overload]	Lipid peroxidation (LPO) stimulated by ascorbate was studied in renal cortex of 20 rats with nephrotoxic nephritis (NTN) and of 9 rats with proteinuria induced by a 3-day course of i. p. injections of the human serum albumin. At the early stages of NTN (0.5 h. and 3 h.) LPO activities were of the same values as in control rats. A small decrease in renal cortex LPO was found on the 4-th day of NTN when nephrotic syndrome has been developed. A significant reduction in LPO activity was observed on the 16-th day of NTN characterized by a more pronounced nephrotic syndrome. LPO activity in renal cortex of the rats with albumin overload proteinuria was also reduced. An inhibitory effect of proteinuria on LPO activity in kidney is discussed.
Maternal plasma or human serum albumin in wash buffer enhances enrichment and ex vivo expansion of human umbilical cord blood CD34+ cells.	Umbilical cord blood is a valuable source of haemopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSC) for transplantation. This study explored the effect of maternal plasma/human serum albumin (HSA) in the purification and culture conditions of CD34+ cells derived from human umbilical cord blood. During CD34+ cell enrichment, including maternal plasma or HSA instead of fetal bovine serum (FBS) in the wash buffer, significantly increased the purity and the fold expansion of CD34+ cells. The increase in fold expansion of CD34+ cells was independent of CD34+ cell purity before expansion. With FBS, the mean fold expansion of CD34+ cells and total nucleated cells on day 7 was 9.7 +/- 5.5 and 39.7 +/- 13.7 respectively. The use of maternal plasma increased the mean fold expansion of CD34+ cells and total nucleated cells on day 7 to 28.2 +/- 6.7 and 71.5 +/- 15.4 respectively. When HSA was added to wash buffer, the mean fold expansion of CD34+ cells and total nucleated cells were 30.4 +/- 10.5 and 83.5 +/- 24.8 respectively. No statistical significance was found between using HSA and maternal plasma on total cell and CD34+ cell expansion. We propose that HSA in maternal plasma was responsible for the positive effect on CD34+ cell enrichment and expansion.
Effect of concurrent intratracheal lipopolysaccharide and human serum albumin challenge on primary and secondary antibody responses in poultry.	Activation of the innate immune system by pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) may direct specific immune responses and as a consequence probably significantly affect vaccination. Previously, we described modulation of specific antibody responses to systemically administered model antigens by intravenously (i.v.) as well as intratracheally (i.t.) administered PAMP such as the endotoxin lipopolysaccharide (LPS). In this study effects of various doses of i.t.-administered LPS on primary and secondary specific total and individual isotype (IgM, IgG and IgA)-specific antibody responses of chickens simultaneously i.t. challenged with various doses of human serum albumin (HuSA) were determined. i.t.-administered LPS enhanced primary and secondary HuSA-specific total and isotype-specific antibody titers depending on the dose of LPS and the dose of simultaneously administered HuSA. i.t.-administered HuSA enhanced primary and secondary total antibody responses to 'environmental' LPS as shown in birds receiving the zero i.t. LPS treatment, which also depended on dose of HuSA. HuSA administration decreased antibody responses to high doses of LPS. Body weight gain as a measurement of an acute phase cachectin response to LPS was affected by a HuSA by LPS interaction, indicating that simultaneously administered higher doses of HuSA decreased LPS-induced cachectin responses of the birds. Our results suggest a complex interaction of innate and specific immune system activating airborne antigens, which may have significant consequences for vaccination and husbandry management procedures.
Lymphatic delivery of 99mTc-labeled dextran acetate particles including cyclosporine A.	Biodistribution and lymphoscintigraphy of cyclosporine A (CyA) and technetium-99m (99mTc) were studied using 99mTc-labeled dextran acetate (DxA) including CyA. DxA particles were prepared from dextran with acetic anhydride, and CyA was loaded into them. Lymphatic delivery of 99mTc-labeled DxA particles containing CyA was evaluated after subcutaneous injection into the foot pad of rats and compared with those of 99mTc-labeled human serum albumin (HSA). The labeling efficiency of CyA-loaded 99mTc-DxA particles was about 95% at 30 min. The labeling efficiency maintained stably above 80% for 12 h. The percent injected dose (%ID) of CyA-loaded 99mTc-DxA was similar to that of 99mTc-HSA at the inguinal lymph node after 40 min. The CyA-loaded 99mTc-DxA could be as well distributed as 99mTc-HSA through the lymph node. The DxA particles could steadily distribute the CyA as well as the 99mTc radiolabeling through the lymph node.
In vivo evaluation of a microneedle-based miniature syringe for intradermal drug delivery.	A microfabrication process for miniature syringes is described. The MEMS syringes consist of a silicon plate with an array of hollow out-of-plane needles and a flexible poly-dimethylsiloxane (PDMS) reservoir attached to the back of the plate. The PDMS reservoir can be filled with a drug solution or microparticle suspension which is delivered into the skin simply by the pressure of a finger pushing on the miniature syringe. The efficiency of such a syringe for delivering a suspension of microparticles into skin tissue and a radiolabelled protein (albumin) solution into live mice is reported. Such microneedle devices could be used for the intradermal delivery of vaccination agents or for the systemic delivery of highly effective drugs.
Long-term safety of combined intracerebral delivery of free gadolinium and targeted chemotherapeutic agent PRX321.	While convection enhanced delivery (CED) is an effective delivery method that bypasses the blood-brain barrier, its utility is limited by infusate leakage due to catheter misplacement. Therefore, it is critical to evaluate drug distribution during CED infusion.  Gadolinium conjugated to diethylenetriamine penta-acetic acid (Gd-DTPA) is a common, readily available MRI contrast agent, which may be able to predict and actively monitor drug distribution. In this study, we assess the long-term safety and toxicity of intracerebrally infused Gd-DTPA along  with an experimental targeted agent PRX321.
Ectopic parathyroid adenoma localized with MIBI scintigraphy and excised with guide of macroaggregated human serum albumin injection.	Primary hyperparathyroidism is caused by an excessive amount of parathyroid hormone secreted by one or more enlarged parathyroid glands. Most commonly primary hyperparathyroidism is caused by a parathyroid adenoma. Ectopic parathyroid adenomas are rare, but they can complicate the surgical treatment and have an increased morbidity and poorer success rate. Thus, preoperative imaging is particularly valuable in this group of patients with hyperparathyroidism. Preoperative imaging has opened up a new era of minimally invasive parathyroid surgery procedures. The radioguided occult lesion localization technique has become the preferred approach to preoperative localization of nonpalpable breast lesions in several breast units. In this report, we investigated the usefulness of the radio-guided occult lesion localization technique in the identification of ectopic parathyroid adenomas. We describe the case of a 66-year-old woman who was diagnosed to be hypercalcemic. Tc-99m methoxy-isobutyl-isonitrile scintigraphy identified an ectopic parathyroid adenoma. The patient's cervical region was scanned with the probe to localize an area of maximal radiotracer uptake and the hot area was identified by a gamma probe. Careful dissection was then carried out and an enlarged ectopic parathyroid gland was removed. In conclusion, the preoperative imaging of an ectopic parathyroid adenoma and the excision of this tissue with radioguided occult lesion localization technique can open up a new era of minimally invasive parathyroid surgery.
Pharmacokinetics of 5-aminofluorescein-albumin, a novel fluorescence marker of brain tumors during surgery.	In a phase I/II study, the new fluorescence marker 5-aminofluorescein covalently bound to human serum albumin (AFL-HSA) was intravenously administered to 10 patients with brain tumor 1 to 4 days before surgery, and AFL-HSA kinetics were determined to assess the optimum timing of dye administration. AFL-HSA was determined in serum and brain tissue by size exclusion chromatography with fluorescence detection. AFL-HSA disposition was quite similar to albumin kinetics with small volumes of distribution (volume of central compartment [V(c)] = 2.4 L; volume of distribution [Vd(β)] = 6.8 L; volume at steady state [V(ss)] = 5.9 L), a low clearance (mean Cl = 16.85 mL/h), and a long elimination half-life (mean T(1/2;β) = 307 hours). Predicted peak concentrations in the peripheral compartment occurred at 80.9 hours, the time point of optimal fluorescence intensity observed in brain tumors during surgery.
Enhanced laser thermal ablation for the in vitro treatment of liver cancer by specific delivery of multiwalled carbon nanotubes functionalized with human serum albumin.	The main goal of this investigation was to develop and test a new method of treatment for human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). We present a method of carbon nanotube-enhanced laser thermal ablation of HepG2 cells (human hepatocellular liver carcinoma cell line) based on a simple multiwalled carbon nanotube (MWCNT) carrier system, such as human serum albumin (HSA), and demonstrate its selective therapeutic efficacy compared with normal hepatocyte cells. Both HepG2 cells and hepatocytes were treated with HSA-MWCNTs at various concentrations and at various incubation times and further irradiated using a 2 W, 808 nm laser beam. Transmission electron, phase contrast, and confocal microscopy combined with immunochemical staining were used to demonstrate the selective internalization of HSA-MWCNTs via Gp60 receptors and the caveolin-mediated endocytosis inside HepG2 cells. The postirradiation apoptotic rate of HepG2 cells treated with HSA-MWCNTs ranged from 88.24% (for 50 mg/L) at 60 sec to 92.34% (for 50 mg/L) at 30 min. Significantly lower necrotic rates were obtained when human hepatocytes were treated with HSA-MWCNTs in a similar manner. Our results clearly show that HSA-MWCNTs selectively attach on the albondin (aka Gp60) receptor located on the HepG2 membrane, followed by an uptake through a caveolin-dependent endocytosis process. These unique results may represent a major step in liver cancer treatment using nanolocalized thermal ablation by laser heating.
Preparation, characterization and targeting of micronized 10-hydroxycamptothecin-loaded folate-conjugated human serum albumin nanoparticles to cancer cells.	The purpose of this study was to develop a method for targeted delivery of 10-hydroxycamptothecin (HCPT)-loaded nanoparticles (NPs) to cancer cells.
The in vivo antitumor activity of LHRH targeted methotrexate-human serum albumin nanoparticles in 4T1 tumor-bearing Balb/c mice.	The use of targeted drug delivery systems is a growing trend in cancer treatment to decrease the adverse effect of anti-cancer drugs. In this study, we sought to conjugate methotrexate-human serum albumin nanoparticles (MTX-HSA NPs) with luteinizing-hormone releasing hormone (LHRH). The LHRH was intended to target LHRH receptors overexpressed on the several types of tumors. The expression of LHRH receptors on the 4T1 breast cancer cells was confirmed by FITC conjugated LHRH receptor antibody using fluorescence microscopy. Female Balb/c mice bearing 4T1 breast cancer tumor were treated with a single i.v. injection of free MTX, non-targeted MTX-HSA NPs and LHRH targeted MTX-HSA NPs. LHRH targeted MTX-HSA nanoparticles showed stronger anti-tumor activity in vivo. By 7 days after treatment, average tumor volume in the LHRH targeted MTX-HSA NPs treated group decreased to 8.67% of the initial tumor volume when the number of attached LHRH molecules on MTX-HSA NPs was the highest, while the average tumor volume in non-targeted MTX-HSA NPs treated mice grew rapidly and reached 250.7% of the initial tumor volume 7 days after the treatment. LHRH targeted MTX-HSA NPs could significantly extend the survival time of tumor bearing mice compared with the non-targeted MTX-HSA NPs and free MTX formulations.
Thoracic and cardiovascular surgery in Jehovah's Witness]	A Jehovah's Witness who requires thoracic and cardiovascular surgery represents a challenge to both the surgeon and the patient because of the patient's refusal to accept blood transfusion. We reported 15 cases of Jehovah's Witness patients from 43 to 80 years of age who underwent cardiac operations or thoracic vascular operations. There was 1 emergency operation case and 2 re-do operation cases. Erythropoietin and serum albumin injections were allowed to be used in some cases. The mean pre-operative haemoglobin level in these patients was 12.3 g/dl. The mean postoperative lowest haemoglobin level was 9.2 g/dl. The mean haemoglobin level at the point of leaving hospital was 11.4 g/dl. There were no postoperative complications and no operative deaths. We successfully performed the thoracic and cardiovascular operations on Jehovah's Witnesses, including emergency cases, safely without blood transfusion. The most important thing is a careful and safe operative technique which reduces perioperative bleeding as much as possible.
Comparison of volume substitutes 5 percent human albumin and 6 percent hydroxyethyl starch (40,000/0.5) in pediatric anesthesia]	Human albumin 5% (HA), frequently used in paediatric anaesthesia as a human plasma substitute, could be replaced by hydroxyethyl starch 6% (HES) 40,000/0.5 provided its use would not entail any disadvantages but rather advantages instead. This problem was studied by examining 30 children (mean body weight 32.5 kg) in general anaesthesia. During about 3 hours of surgery the patients lost up to 15 per cent (approx. 400 ml) of blood volume. In a randomised study the blood loss was compensated either via HA or HES with 14 ml/kg body weight each, respectively. Blood pressure and pulse rate remained within the normal range. Haemodilution was represented by a drop in the erythrocyte count to about 3 million/microliter, haematocrit (HCT) to about 30% and haemoglobin to approx. 10 g/100 ml. Slight metabolic acidosis (Bodansky unit = -4 mmol/l) was found to be statistically not significant (= n.s.) with both methods, as was the difference in serum albumin and during serum electrophoresis. Serum [Na+] was reduced in those children who had been treated with HES, to 137.33 +/- 33.30 mmol/l; however, in those children who received HA with low sodium content (statistically significant difference = s.s.) the corresponding level was 134.15 +/- 2.36 mmol/l. Serum creatinine rose in each case from 60 to 80 mmol/l (s.s.), renal function being slightly impaired probably due to the anaesthesia and surgery. The value according to Quick's test and the partial thromboplastin time (PTT) remained in the normal range both with HA and HES treatment (in each case over 70% and below 25s, respectively).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
"No wash" albumin-dextran dilution for double-unit cord blood transplantation is safe with high rates of sustained donor engraftment.	Washing cord blood (CB) grafts involves product manipulation and may result in cell loss. We investigated double-unit CB transplantation (CBT) using red blood cell (RBC)-depleted units diluted with albumin-dextran in patients with hematologic malignancies. One-hundred thirty-six patients (median age, 43 years; range, 4 to 71; median weight, 69 kilograms (kg); range, 24 to 111) underwent transplantation with a 4/6 to 6/6 HLA-matched graft. Patients ≤ 20 kg were excluded, as they only received washed units. Units were diluted a median of 8 fold to a median volume of 200 mL/unit. The median infused total nucleated cell doses were 2.7 (larger unit) and 2.0 (smaller unit) x 10(7)/kg, respectively, and the median post-thaw recovery was 86%. Units were infused consecutively (median, 45 minutes/unit). While only 17 patients (13%) had no infusion reactions, reactions in the remaining 119 patients were almost exclusively mild-moderate (by CTCAE v4 criteria 12 grade 1, 43 grade 2, 63 grade 3) with only 1 patient (< 1%) having a severe (grade 4) reaction. Moreover, most were easily treated. Grade 2 to 3 hypertension was the most common in 101 (74%) patients. The cumulative incidence of sustained donor-derived neutrophil engraftment was high: 95% in myeloablative and 94% in nonmyeloablative CBT recipients. With appropriate supportive care, double-unit CBT with RBC-depleted grafts infused after albumin-dextran dilution is safe with high rates of engraftment in patients > 20 kg.
Clinical hypersensitivity to specific aerosol challenge in parenterally immunized calves.	This paper reports an experiment designed to demonstrate that the calf lung can be sensitized to a specific respirable challenge following parenteral immunization with a nonliving antigen (human serum albumin). The possibility that immune-mediated injury could subsequently interfere with nonspecific mucosal defenses was also investigated by infecting calves with Pasteurella haemolytica after the antigen challenge and assessing pulmonary clearance of the organism. The results indicated that specific aerosol challenge produces reversible signs of respiratory hypersensitivity and that persistence of incidental infection in the upper respiratory tract is potentiated. Since the calves were sensitized by an immunization regime which imitated conventional vaccination, this study highlights the potential dangers of inactivated parenteral respiratory vaccines.
Blood-cerebrospinal fluid barrier alteration following intraventricularly administered cholera toxin.	Cholera toxin (CT) has been reported to double cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) formation following its introduction into the ventricular system of cats and dogs. In our laboratory we noted that CT used in a similar fashion in rabbits and cats resulted in only a slight increase in CSF formation and was associated with a steadily rising protein content in the cisterna magna effluent. To further investigate this finding, rabbits and cats underwent ventriculo-cisternal perfusions, one group with CT introduced into the ventricles and the other without. In the rabbit only, radioiodinated serum albumin (125I-RISA) was given i.v. Other groups of rabbits had 125I-RISA or 125I-CT injected into the ventricles. The group of rabbits receiving intraventricular CT experienced a 4-10-fold elevation in the amount of both protein and 125I-RISA in the cisterna magna effluent compared with the control group. Electrophoretic pattern of the protein present in the effluent was similar to that of rabbit plasma. Autoradiography of the brains of those animals given intraventricular 125I-CT were found to have a very high uptake of 125I-CT in the choroid plexus and along all exposed ventricular surfaces, a finding not evident when 125I-RISA alone was given intraventricularly. It is concluded that CT altered the blood-CSF barriers allowing the reference marker to penetrate these barriers and plasma to leak into the CSF. These findings appear to account for most if not all of what was thought to be an increase in CSF formation in response to intraventricular CT.
Inhibition of hepatitis B virus replication by vidarabine monophosphate conjugated with lactosaminated serum albumin.	Vidarabine (ara A) produces severe dose-dependent side-effects. To examine whether its monophosphate ester (ara-AMP) can be effective in the treatment of chronic hepatitis B when given in reduced dosage as a conjugate with lactosaminated human serum albumin (L-HSA), which selectively enters hepatocytes, five patients with chronic type B hepatitis (HBsAg/HBV-DNA positive for at least 2 years) were treated with the conjugate. The daily dose of conjugate given (35 mg/kg) contains 1.5 mg ara-AMP, whereas the usual daily dose of free ara-AMP is 5-10 mg/kg. In three patients HBV-DNA fell to undetectable levels and remained negative in two; in one of them anti-HBe developed. In the other two patients HBV-DNA decreased but was detectable during treatment--one received three cycles of therapy, and became HBV-DNA negative and anti-HBe positive 45 days after the end of treatment; the other remained HBeAg/HBV-DNA positive. No adverse effects were observed, and biochemical variables (including aminotransferases) remained unchanged or decreased with viraemia. No antibodies (IgM and IgG classes) that bound the conjugate were detected. Thus L-HSA-ara-AMP inhibits HBV replication as well as free ara-AMP but at a third to a sixth of the dose.
Strategies for the review of transfusion practices.	The intent of this report is to familiarize health care professionals with the concept of effective quality assurance in regard to blood use. Although evaluation of the appropriateness of transfusion therapy is now required by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Health Organizations, health care facilities have little experience with this aspect of professional quality assurance. To this end, the Committee on Transfusion Practices of the American Association of Blood Banks, in Arlington, Va, in this report has provided examples of indications and audit criteria for individual blood components and products and commented on areas of controversy surrounding their use. Audit criteria from different institutions may vary because of differences in local interpretation of the indication, different patient populations, and, in some instances, the availability of blood and laboratory services. Several approaches to the review of transfusion practices are discussed in relation to clinical settings and pertaining to particular blood components. It is evident from these examples that there will be an increased need for trained personnel to perform the initial review process as well as for physicians trained in transfusion medicine to oversee the transfusions and provide the necessary consultation.
Erythrocyte crenation induced by free fatty acids in patients undergoing extracorporeal circulation.	Normal erythrocyte morphology is necessary for proper distribution of blood-flow in the microcirculation. Erythrocyte shape was studied in 20 patients undergoing extracorporeal circulation (EC) during coronary bypass surgery. Crenated erythrocytes comprised a mean 64% of all erythrocytes during and 29% after EC. Free fatty acid (FFA) content of the erythrocyte membranes was significantly increased at both times, and FFA content correlated with the proportion of crenated erythrocytes. Washing crenated cells with defatted albumin solution transformed them back to discocytes, simultaneously removing more FFA than that removed from pre-EC discocytes. The plasma FFA to albumin ratio became disproportionately increased during EC; the increased level correlated with severity of erythrocyte crenation. Maintaining a higher level of albumin during EC by adding 50 g human albumin to the extracorporeal system prevented erythrocyte crenation. Entry of plasma FFA not bound to albumin into erythrocyte membranes during EC causes massive erythrocyte crenation.
Induction of avian immunological responsiveness following cloacal drinking of immunogen.	A solution of human serum albumin which has been cloacally ingested can cause effective development of immunological memory with minimal or no immediate production of antibody in 4 to 6 week old chickens. Such memory production was not accompanied by the generation of circulating rosette-forming ABC (antigen binding cells) and thus the peripheral appearance of such cells as a part of the normal primary response to HSA (human serum albumin) does not accord with the interpretation that they represent memory B cells. The cloacal route may be important for the maturing chick in initiating immunity to the food and micro-organisms of its external environment and gut flora.
Effects of intravascular volume expansion on cerebral blood flow in patients with ruptured cerebral aneurysms.	To clarify the effect of intravascular volume expansion on cerebral blood flow (CBF) in patients after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), we performed 55 pairs of regional CBF measurements using the xenon-133 inhalation method before and after volume expansion in 35 patients with ruptured cerebral aneurysms. CBF was calculated as the hemispheric mean value of the initial slope index. To accomplish volume expansion, we transfused 500 ml of 5% human serum albumin in half an hour. After volume expansion with albumin, the hemoglobin value decreased significantly (P less than 0.005). Volume expansion did not change the mean arterial blood pressure. During the first 2 weeks after SAH, CBF decreased significantly after volume expansion (P less than 0.005). During the 3rd week after SAH and subsequently to the 4th week after SAH, volume expansion produced no change in CBF. In patients with symptomatic vasospasm, CBF decreased significantly after volume expansion (P less than 0.005). In patients without symptomatic vasospasm, volume expansion produced no change in CBF. The results of this study suggest that increasing the intravascular volume above normal by volume expansion does not increase CBF or reverse symptomatic vasospasm.
Determination of the percent of exchanged plasma in continuous membrane separation and substitution with human albumin]	In the plasma separation simultaneously with the filtering off of patients' plasma a substitution solution is infused. A part of this substitution solution is also filtered off in the sequel. Therefore the volume measured of the filtered plasma only partly consists of the original plasma of the patient. The exact size of this part is calculated by the authors from the globulin concentrations in the patients' plasma before and after the plasma separation. In this case they proceed from the prerequisites that albumin is used as substitution solution and that the plasma volume remains constant during the plasma separation.
Failure of autoregulation and intraventricular haemorrhage in preterm infants.	Changes in mean arterial blood-pressure produced in five sick newborn infants by transfusion or exchange of blood products were accompanied by striking increases in cerebral blood-flow. These increases imply a failure of autoregulation. Four of the infants had a fatal intraventricular haemorrhage within 12 h of the observed change in flow. This suggests that the increase in flow precipitated the haemorrhage.
The influence of acute blood volume changes on plasma renin activity in man.	The effect of an acute 10% blood volume reduction on plasma renin activity (PRA) was examined in seven patients with minor heart diseases during haemodynamic investigation and in five healthy subjects after 3 days furosemide administration. PRA was not significantly changed. Blood pressure remained constant, atrial pressures decreased. The effect on PRA of an acute 10% blood volume expansion with albumin infusion was studied in thirteen patients with liver or heart diseases. A slight reduction of PRA after albumin did not exceed the expected decrease due to plasma dilution. Blood pressure was unchanged, atrial pressures increased. Renal blood flow increased after albumin in all of the five patients investigated. The effect of PRA of an acute 10% blood volume expansion with whole blood flow increased after albumin in all of the five patients investigated. The effect on PRA of an acute 10% blood volume expansion with whole blood was then investigated in five healthy subjects, pretreated with furosemide for 3 days. A significant decrease in PRA was found. Blood pressure remained constant. It is concluded that an acute blood loss of 10% and an acute blood volume expansion of 10% with albumin have little influence on PRA in supine man, whereas an acute blood volume expansion of 10% with whole blood induces a significant PRA suppression.
Albumin therapy for patients with increased intracranial pressure: oncotic therapy]	Albumin plays an important role in maintaining an adequate plasma colloid osmotic pressure (COP). On the basis of the Starling's law, we postulated that elevation of plasma COP produced by infusion of serum albumin would result in the withdrawal of cerebral interstitial fluid. To test the hypothesis that an oncotic gradient would produce cerebral dehydration and result in reduction of intracranial pressure (ICP), we infused intravenously 25% solution of salt-poor human serum albumin, 2g/kg over 60 minutes for 10 patients with increased ICP. In these 10 patients, the degree of brain edema was not severe but mild to moderate by judging from CT scan findings. In addition to ICP, various parameters such as mean arterial blood pressure (MABP), central venous pressure (CVP), pulse rate, PaCO2 and urine volume were measured before, during and after albumin infusion. Hematological studies including COP, total protein, albumin-globulin ratio, protein fractions, hematocrit (Ht), blood urea nitrogen (BUN), creatinine and electrolytes were also performed before, during and after administration of albumin. The raised ICP (27.4 +/- S.E. 1.6 mmHg) decreased significantly down to 19.1 (+/- 1.9) mmHg and remained stable for at least 240 minutes without any changes of MABP, pulse rate and PaCO2. CVP elevated significantly and remained at higher levels in comparison with control despite increase of urine output after administration of albumin. This results suggested that an adequate circulatory volume was maintained. A significant increase of total protein, serum albumin concentrations and albumin-globulin ratio was noted.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Antigen-induced arthritis. Studies on the inhibition of proteoglycan synthesis observed in articular cartilage during short-term joint inflammation.	During the acute phase of antigen-induced arthritis, cartilage was obtained from five different sites within the joint, and chondrocyte activity was assessed by autoradiography of sections labeled with 35S-sulfate. There was a marked inhibition of chondrocyte proteoglycan synthesis in all weight-bearing areas; in addition, the complete superficial layer of cells and many mid-zone cells in these areas were completely inactive. Electron microscopy showed that the inactive surface cells had degenerated completely, and that many mid-zone cells contained an accumulation of intracytoplasmic filaments and were depleted in biosynthetic organelles. A biochemical study of the inhibition showed that: 1) the incorporation of 35S-sulfate and 3H-acetate into glycosaminoglycans was inhibited to a similar extent; 2) the inhibition of glycosaminoglycan synthesis could not be reversed either by the addition of benzyl-beta-D-xyloside to incubations or by maintenance of the cartilage in organ culture for 6 days; 3) the inhibited chondrocytes exhibited a decreased ability to secrete proteoglycans into the extracellular fraction of the cartilage.
Blood component transfusion in Croatia]	Blood component therapy has been wildly accepted all over the world due to the better effects achieved in treating the patients, its safety and economy. In SRH it is replacing whole blood transfusions rather slowly as can be seen through five years of production and utilisation of blood derivatives. In 1974-1978 period a number of donations in Croatia increased to 27 per 1.000 inhabitants, but it is still very far from optimal 40-60 donations per 1.000 inhabitants. In that period the production of albumin increased 5 times, of immunoglobulins 10 times and factor VIII 10 times. In 1978 per 1.000 inhabitants, 2,1 1 of plasma were fractionated, 53 gr of albumin and 23 ml of imunoglobulins were used plus additional 6.200 units per one haemophiliac. These quantities are not sufficient to cover the needs of the health service in SRH. To overcome the shortage it is necessary to increase the number of donations, to augmant the average amount of donation to 450 ml., to increase the number of plasmapheresis and to use blood component therapy on a larger scale. Only after obtaining 10-12 1 of plasma for fractionation per 1.000 inhabitants optimal quantities of derivatives can be secured.
Novel polymer-grafted starch microparticles for mucosal delivery of vaccines.	Recent studies have demonstrated that systemic and mucosal administration of soluble antigens in biodegradable microparticles can potentiate antigen-specific humoral and cellular immune responses. However, current microparticle formulations are not adequate for all vaccine antigens, necessitating the further development of microparticle carrier systems. In this study, we developed a novel microparticle fabrication technique in which human serum albumin (HSA) was entrapped in starch microparticles grafted with 3-(triethoxysilyl)-propyl-terminated polydimethylsiloxane (TS-PDMS), a biocompatible silicone polymer. The immunogenicity of HSA was preserved during the microparticle fabrication process. Following intraperitoneal immunization of mice, TS-PDMS-grafted microparticles (MP) dramatically enhanced serum IgG responses compared with ungrafted MP and soluble HSA alone (P < 0.001). When delivered orally, both TS-PDMS-grafted and ungrafted microparticles elicited HSA-specific IgA responses in gut secretions, in contrast to orally administered soluble antigen. Indeed, TS-PDMS-grafted microparticles stimulated significantly stronger serum IgG (P < 0.005) and IgA (P < 0.001) responses compared with those elicited by ungrafted microparticles. These findings indicate that TS-PDMS-grafted starch microparticles have potential as systemic and mucosal vaccine delivery vehicles.
Direct convective delivery of macromolecules to peripheral nerves.	Although many macromolecules have treatment potential for peripheral nerve disease, clinical use of these agents has been restricted because of limitations of delivery including systemic toxicity, heterogeneous dispersion, and inadequate distribution. In an effort to overcome these obstacles, the authors examined the use of convection to deliver and distribute macromolecules into peripheral nerves.
Direct convective delivery of macromolecules to the spinal cord.	Because of the limited penetration of macromolecules across the blood-spinal cord barrier, numerous therapeutic compounds with potential for treating spinal cord disorders cannot be used effectively. The authors have developed a technique to deliver and distribute macromolecules regionally in the spinal cord by using convection in the interstitial space.
Filtration of diaspirin crosslinked hemoglobin into lung and soft tissue lymph.	Diaspirin crosslinked hemoglobin (DCHb) is a new blood substitute manufactured from human blood. To evaluate its microvascular filtration properties, we infused DCLHb into unanesthetized sheep (10%, 20 ml/kg) and measured the flow and composition of lung and soft tissue lymph. For comparison, we also infused human serum albumin (HSA; 10%, 20 ml/kg). DCLHb raised systemic and pulmonary arterial pressures from baseline values of 83 +/- 7 and 13 +/- 2 mm Hg, respectively, to peak values of 113 +/- 9 and 26 +/- 3 mm Hg (p < 0.05 versus baseline). These increases were significantly greater than those associated with HSA, which raised systemic and pulmonary arterial pressures from baseline values of 86 +/- 4 and 13 +/- 2 mm Hg, respectively, to peak values of 97 +/- 3 and 21 +/- 7 mm Hg (p <= 0.05 versus baseline and versus DCLHb). These differences reflect the known pressor properties of DCLHb. Accordingly, DCLHb raised lung and soft tissue lymph flows to peak values of 12.2 +/- 3.8 and 1.6 +/- 0.7 ml/30 min, respectively, while HSA raised lung and soft tissue lymph flows to peak values of 7.5 +/- 4.8 and 4.6 +/- 1.9 ml/30 min, respectively (p <= 0.05 versus DCLHb). The half-times of DCLHb equilibration from plasma into lung and soft tissue lymph of 1. 0 +/- 0.3 and 2.1 +/- 1.1 h, respectively, were significantly faster than HSA equilibration half-times of 3.1 +/- 0.2 and 3.8 +/- 0.9 h. Filtration differences between DCLHb and HSA appear to be due to the pressor properties DCLHb.
Albumin infusion in humans does not model exercise induced hypervolaemia after 24 hours.	We rapidly infused 234 +/- 3 mL of 5% human serum albumin in eight men while measuring haematocrit, haemoglobin concentration, plasma volume (PV), albumin concentration, total protein concentration, osmolality, sodium concentration, renin activity, aldosterone concentration, and atrial natriuretic peptide concentration to test the hypotheses that plasma volume expansion and plasma albumin content expansion will not persist for 24 h. Plasma volume and albumin content were expanded for the first 6 h after infusion (44.3 +/- 1.9-47.2 +/- 2.0 mL kg-1 and 1.9 +/- 0.1-2.1 +/- 0.1 g kg-1 at pre-infusion and 1 h, respectively, P < 0.05), but by 24 h plasma volume and albumin content decreased significantly from 1 h post-infusion and were not different from pre-infusion (44.8 +/- 1.9 mL kg-1 and 1.9 +/- 0.1 g kg-1, respectively). Plasma aldosterone concentration showed a significant effect of time over the 24 h after infusion (P < 0.05), and showed a trend to decrease at 2 h after infusion (167.6 +/- 32.5(-1) 06.2 +/- 13.4 pg mL-1, P = 0.07). These data demonstrate that a 6.8% expansion of plasma volume and 10.5% expansion of plasma albumin content by infusion does not remain in the vascular space for 24 h and suggest a redistribution occurs between the intravascular space and interstitial fluid space.
