H2-receptors mediate histamine-induced variations in the permeability of the blood-brain barrier of rats.	Earlier investigations suggested that histamine H2-receptors mediate alterations in cerebrovascular permeability in mammals. The objective of this study was to observe the effects of the H2-receptor antagonist ranitidine on histamine-stimulated alterations in the permeability of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) of rats. Normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) (control) and spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) rats were premedicated with ranitidine (1 mg/kg), followed by histamine (1.25, 2.5 or 5.0 micrograms/kg) or saline. Animals were anesthetized and permeability of the BBB was evaluated with 99mTc-labeled sodium pertechnetate (TcO4-) or with 131I-labeled human serum albumin (RISA). In both control and hypertensive rats, ranitidine blocked histamine-induced changes in cerebrovascular permeability, but did not inhibit histamine-stimulated systemic hypotension. The alterations in the permeability of the BBB did not correlate with variations in blood pressure produced by histamine.
THE EFFLUX OF SUBSTANCES FROM FROG VENTRICLES TO SUCROSE AND TO RINGER'S SOLUTIONS.	The frog ventricle in sucrose solution contracts for several hours at 25 degrees C, and for as long as 24 hours at 5 degrees G. The possibility that a fraction of the extracellular fluid remains outside of the excitable membrane was examined by measuring the efflux of tracers. The half-time for the efflux to sucrose solution at 25 degrees C of C(14) sucrose is about 1 minute, for Na(24) is 6.5 minutes, and for Cl(86) is 4 minutes. There is no evidence for the retention of an extracellular Na fraction. The Q(10) for Na and Cl efflux is about 1.3. The half-time for K(42) efflux is about 180 minutes; the Q(10) is 1.7. The efflux rates of Na(24), Cl(36) and K(42) to sucrose and to Ringer's solutions are quite similar. Ca(45) efflux is only one-fifth as fast to sucrose solution as to Ringer's; the retention of Ca(++) may be important for maintaining excitability in sucrose solution. P(32) efflux is five times faster to sucrose solution than to Ringer's solution, and there is a similar increase in the rate of inosine loss to sucrose solution. The Q(10) for efflux to sucrose solution is 2.2 for P(32)O(4) and 2.4 for inosine. We suggest that energy metabolism is abnormal in ventricles in sucrose solution and that low temperature prolongs excitability by slowing the metabolic change.
EVIDENCE FOR SPECIES' DIFFERENCES IN THE EFFECT OF SERUM GAMMA-GLOBULIN CONCENTRATION ON GAMMA-GLOBULIN CATABOLISM.	The fractional rates of catabolism of isotopically labeled mouse, human, bovine, and guinea pig gamma-globulins and human serum albumin were determined in mice and in guinea pigs whose serum gamma-globulin and serum albumin levels were elevated by immunization or by injections of exogenous serum proteins. These serum proteins were also followed in mice with different serum gamma-globulin levels due to different bacterial environments. The fractional rates of catabolism of the labeled gamma-globulins from all species tested were markedly increased in mice with elevated gamma-globulins due to immunization; to injections of human, mouse, guinea pig, or rabbit gamma-globulins; to exposure to supra normal numbers of bacteria in the environment. Injections of bovine gamma-globulin were only partially effective, and injections of human serum albumin had no effect. The gamma-globulin catabolic rates were decreased in mice with subnormal serum gamma-globulin levels (germfree mice). The catabolic rate of human serum albumin was essentially the same in all mice in spite of differences in serum gamma-globulin levels. In contrast, elevation of the serum gamma-globulin levels by injections of exogenous gamma-globulins or by hyperimmunization with keyhole limpet hemocyanin produced no change in the fractional catabolic rates of the isotopically labeled gamma-globulins and labeled albumin in guinea pigs. Thus, a feedback mechanism for the control of the serum gamma-globulin concentration appears to be operative in the mouse, but not in the guinea pig. Guinea pigs immunized with antigens in complete Freund's adjuvant or a saline suspension of killed E. coli had an increase in the catabolic rates of all labeled proteins tested including human serum albumin. Evidence is presented that the mechanism of this increase in catabolism is not the same as that seen in mice with elevated serum gamma-globulin levels.
Effect of endothelin on plasma volume and albumin escape.	Previous studies have demonstrated that endothelin-1 (ET-1) is a potent vasoconstrictor that decreases cardiac output and increases hematocrit. The present study was designed to determine if the rise in hematocrit and decrease in cardiac output are in part due to shifts of plasma from the vascular space to the interstitial space. Red blood cell volume and plasma volume were determined by using chromium-51-labeled erythrocytes and iodine-125-labeled albumin, respectively, in anesthetized, nephrectomized, splenectomized rats. The present study demonstrates that ET-1 increases mean arterial pressure and hematocrit. This effect is associated with an increase in total-body albumin escape, which is reflected by a marked reduction in whole-body plasma volume. ET-1 enhanced albumin escape primarily in the liver, lung, and heart at low doses. At high doses, albumin escape increased primarily in the liver, heart, and gastrointestinal tract but not the lung. The present study demonstrates that ET-1 increases hematocrit independent of splenic contraction or renal losses by enhancing loss of plasma volume to the interstitial space without affecting red blood cell volume. Because of the profound pressor effects of ET-1, it is likely that the plasma loss results from increased capillary hydrostatic pressure.
Radioimmunoscintigraphic approach for the in vivo detection of tuberculomas--a preliminary study in a rabbit model.	Radioimmunoscintigraphic approach could provide a viable non-invasive alternative for the diagnosis of deeply situated tuberculomas. We have evaluated this in a rabbit model constructed to give a characteristic localized tubercular lesion, with complimentary morphological, histological and antigenic profiles. 131I-anti Myobacterium bovis (BCG) antibody was shown to localize at the lesion, where as 131I-bovine serum albumin and 99mTc-red blood cell scans were negative. The clearance of intradermally-injected tuberculous antigen could be traced into ascending lymph nodes using 131I-anti M. bovis (BCG) antibody.
Lung albumin recovery in surfactant-treated preterm ventilated lambs.	Preterm ventilated animals and infants with respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) develop proteinaceous alveolar edema. To study the effect of postnatal age on intravascular radiolabeled albumin accumulation into lungs, preterm lambs at 132 days gestational age were ventilated after treatment with sheep surfactant or cow surfactant extract for periods as long as 24 h. Lambs not treated with surfactant were studied for only 5 h because of severe respiratory failure. All lambs were given radiolabeled albumin by intravascular injection 1 h before they were killed, and the net recovery of the labeled albumin was measured in the lung tissue and air space as quantified by alveolar lavage. Net 1-h radiolabeled albumin recoveries in the lungs decreased from 5 to 6% soon after birth to 0.9% at 24 h in the surfactant-treated groups (p less than 0.01). At 3 h there was less labeled albumin recovery by alveolar lavages in lambs treated with sheep surfactant than in control lambs and lambs treated with cow surfactant extract (p less than 0.05). Protein in alveolar washes from lambs treated with cow surfactant extract exceeded that in lambs treated with sheep surfactant at 3 h (p less than 0.05), but protein recoveries had decreased to similar values by 24 h, indicating a net clearance of air-space protein. These studies demonstrate a sixfold decrease in net albumin accumulation from birth to 24 h of age despite continued ventilation and oxygen exposure of the premature lamb lungs.
Disorders of the protein-transport function of the intestines in chronic kidney diseases]	Radioactive albumin studies were performed in patients with chronic renal disorders. The findings evidence an essential decline of intestinal protein-transport function, enhanced catabolism, impairment of protein synthesis and its renal loss which underlie protein deficiency.
Atrial natriuretic factor after cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass in children.	To determine circulating atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) concentrations in the postoperative state and to define potential hemodynamic determinants of regional plasma ANF concentrations.
Developmental regulation of human truncated nerve growth factor receptor.	Monoclonal antibodies (designated XIF1 and IIIG5) recognizing distinct epitopes of the human truncated nerve growth factor receptor (NGF-Rt) were used in a two-site radiometric immunosorbent assay to monitor levels of NGF-Rt in human urine as a function of age. Urine samples were collected from 70 neurologically normal subjects ranging in age from 1 month to 68 years. By using this sensitive two-site radiometric immunosorbent assay, NGF-Rt levels were found to be highest in urine from 1-month old subjects. By 2.5 months, NGF-Rt values were half of those seen at 1 month and decreased more gradually between 0.5 and 15 years. Between 15 and 68 years, urine NGF-Rt levels were relatively constant at 5% of 1-month values. No evidence for diurnal variation of adult NGF-Rt was apparent. Pregnant women in their third trimester showed significantly elevated urine NGF-Rt values compared with age-matched normals. Affinity labeling of NGF-Rt with 125I-NGF followed by immunoprecipitation with ME20.4-IgG and gel autoradiography indicated that neonatal urine contained high amounts of truncated receptor (Mr = 50 kd); decreasingly lower amounts of NGF-Rt were observed on gel autoradiograms with development, indicating that the two-site radiometric immunosorbent assay correlated well with the affinity labeling technique for measuring NGF-Rt. NGF-Rt in urines from 1-month-old and 36-year-old subjects showed no differences in affinities for NGF or for the monoclonal antibody IIIG5. These data show that NGF-Rt is developmentally regulated in human urine, and are discussed in relation to the development and maturation of the peripheral nervous system.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The radionuclide assessment of the central hemodynamic indices in patients with urolithiasis, arterial hypertension and varicocele]	Basic parameters of central and intracardiac hemodynamics were studied in 49 urological patients 24 of which with urolithiasis entered group I, 13 with hypertension-group II and 12 with varicocele-group III. The patients' age averaged 46.4, 41.6 and 28.6 years, respectively. The data were provided by routine clinical and laboratory examinations, ECG, one-passage radionuclide cardiography with 132I-albumin using a radiocirculographer of Hungarian manufacture and radiocardioanalyzer RKAZ-01 made in this country. Neither marked ischemic disturbances of the myocardium nor valvular defects were revealed. Ambiguous group-specific shifts presented in central and intracardiac hemodynamics. Total peripheral vascular resistance exhibited a moderate increase while left ventricular circulation time grew 1.5-2-fold. The greater resistance can be attributed to activation of renin-angiotensin system in prolonged ischemia of renal parenchyma due to nephrolithiasis. Group II patients demonstrated parallel elevation of arterial pressure, peripheral resistance, left ventricular performance and output suggesting myocardial functional stress. In group III there was a rise in blood volume, left ventricular performance and output, cardiac index, stroke volume. This myocardial overloading may result from changes in intravascular volumetric relations characteristic of hypervolemia. These hemodynamic changes reflect adaptation in urological patients and should be accounted for in treatment and operative interventions.
Blood and plasma volumes determined by carbon monoxide gas, 99mTc-labelled erythrocytes, 125I-albumin and the T 1824 technique.	The total amount of circulating haemoglobin was measured in 12 subjects using a direct carbon monoxide (CO)-technique. O2 plus 50 ml CO gas was rebreathed in a small closed system for 10 min. Carboxyhaemoglobin (HbCO)% was measured with a diode-array spectrophotometer before and after the rebreathing. delta HBCO% and the amount of CO in moles (nCO) were used to calculate the total amount of circulating haemoglobin. Blood volume was calculated by dividing this figure with the haemoglobin concentration and plasma volume by multiplying the blood volume with 1-haematocrit. The calculated blood and plasma volumes were compared with the simultaneously measured volumes by 99mTc-labelled erythrocytes, 125I-albumin and T 1824 (Evans Blue). Mean blood volume determined with CO was 4557 ml (3251-6576 ml) compared with 4527 ml (3390-6527 ml) with 99mTc-labelled erythrocytes (r = 0.97). Mean plasma volume by T 1824 was 2895 ml (1972-3658 ml) vs 2898 ml (1815-3714) ml using 125I-albumin, (r = 0.99). The plasma volumes calculated from the blood volumes determined by the erythrocyte-labelling methods were 5-10% lower than those measured with labelled albumin. There was a better correlation between the plasma volumes by the albumin methods and by the CO-technique (r = 0.98 and r = 0.97, respectively) than between the plasma volumes by the albumin methods and by 99mTc-erythrocytes (r = 0.90 and r = 0.87, respectively).
Accuracy of blood volume estimations in critically ill children using 125I-labelled albumin and 51Cr-labelled red cells.	Blood volume was estimated using 51chromium labelled red cells and 125iodinated human serum albumin in 5 children with sepsis, in 6 burned children and 7 children with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia. Studies of the equilibration pattern demonstrated that the mixing time of labelled red cells was prolonged to 40 minutes or more in 5 children, indicating the existence of slowly circulating red cells. Mixing of labelled albumin was complete within 10 minutes in 15 patients and within 20 minutes in all the children studied. In a burned patient with severe sepsis, exchange transfusion improved the clinical state and normalized the equilibration pattern of labelled red cells. The mean body/venous haematocrit ratio was 0.893+/-0.018 (SD) in the children with sepsis, 0.859+/-0.052 in the burned patients, and 0.916+/-0.078 in the children with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia, increasing with spleen size in the latter group.
Conditions of radioiodination with iodogen as oxidizing agent.	Different factors that give the maximum iodination of proteins by iodogen method have been evaluated. The quantity of iodogen was varied from 2 to 20 micrograms; pH from 3 to 9; the quantity of bovine serum albumin (BSA) from 25 micrograms to 2 mg; the 131I activity from 200 microCi to 5 mCi and the reaction time from 2 to 30 min. The maximum iodination of proteins is achieved with iodogen-to-iodide molar ratio of 100-200 and iodogen-to-protein molar ratio of 1-2 at pH 6-8 for 10-15 min at room temperature.
Clonidine-induced suppression of plasma catecholamines in states of adrenal medulla hyperfunction.	To assess adrenal medulla activity in states of hyperfunction, a single 0.3 mg oral dose of clonidine hydrochloride (Catapres) was given to twelve patients with varying evidence of familial adrenal medullary hyperplasia and pheochromocytomas from kindreds with Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia type 2 syndrome (MEN-2), seven patients with sporadic pheochromocytomas and six normal subjects. Mean arterial blood pressure and plasma norepinephrine (NE) levels were lower than baseline values 2 h after clonidine in the normal subjects. Plasma epinephrine (E) rose in one normal but fell in the remainder after clonidine administration. In sporadic pheochromocytoma patients, E fell slightly in 4 and NE fell in 3 while mean arterial blood pressure was not significantly lower than baseline values in 7 patients 2 h after clonidine. In MEN-2, mean arterial blood pressure fell and there was a variable response of plasma E and NE to clonidine, which appears to be related to the presence of detectable anatomic (CT scan) and functional (131I-mlBG scintigraphy) abnormalities of the adrenal medulla. These findings are thus compatible with the spectrum of adrenal medulla dysfunction and the presumed development of pheochromocytoma in this syndrome.
Changes in regional plasma extravasation in rats following endotoxin infusion.	Regional differences in plasma extravasation during endotoxin shock in rats and a possible relationship with changes in regional blood flow were studied with radioactive isotopes (125I-HSA, 51Cr-labeled red blood cells, microspheres) in anesthetized rats (pentobarbital). Shock was induced by intravenous infusion of endotoxin (Eschericia coli; 10 mg X kg-1) for 60 min (starting at t = 0); at t = 120 min, the experiments were terminated. These rats (n = 8) were compared with time-matched control rats (n = 8). A third group (rats killed 7.5 min after injection of 125I-HSA, i.e., no extravasation; n = 8) served as baseline. The amount of plasma extravasated in 2 hr of endotoxin shock was significantly increased over control values in skin (by 67%), colon (88%), skeletal muscle (105%), stomach (230%), pancreas (300%), and diaphragm (1300%). Losses of 125I-HSA into intestinal lumen and peritoneal cavity had also increased over control values by 146 and 380%, respectively. Blood flow was compromised in most organs except heart and diaphragm. Extravasation when normalized for total plasma supply was correlated with total blood supply; the more the blood supply decreased, the higher the normalized extravasation. In the diaphragm, however, blood supply and plasma leakage increased together. Decreased blood supply and plasma extravasation may be related but they could also be simultaneously occurring independent phenomena with a common origin.
Immediate effect of irradiation on microvasculature.	The immediate effects of irradiation on microvasculature in muscle in an animal model are described in this paper. By using triple isotopes of 125I, 131I, and 22Na, the transcapillary transfer of albumin from the vascular bed to the extravascular space is determined in terms of mg/g of tissue, after single doses of 2 to 14 Gy. These results reveal an increase in the extravascular albumin immediately after irradiation and suggest an instantaneous compromise in vascular permeability even after 2 Gy. This effect was apparently dose related.
First-pass anger camera radiocardiography: biventricular ejection fraction, flow, and volume measurements.	First-pass (FP) right and left ventricular ejection fraction results were compared with equilibrium radiocardiographic (ER) measurements, and FP left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) values were compared with biplane contrast angiographic (CA) measurements in 13 patients with and seven patients without regurgitant valvular disease. Regurgitant fractions were calculated from differences between the FP right and left ventricular stroke volumes. Ejection fractions determined by FP were precise (mean CV = 9.6% RVEF, 13.4% LVEF). Mean LVEF by FP and ER were essentially identical, and both were lower than by CA. LVEF(FP) correlated with LVEF by ER and CA (r = 0.88, p less than 0.001). Mean RVEF by both FP and ER were also correlated (r = 0.82, p less than 0.001). There was correlation between FP (corrected) and CA left ventricular stroke (r = 0.77), end-diastolic (r = 0.88), and end-systolic (r = 0.91) volumes, but underestimates were noted when uncorrected flows were used (r = 0.52-0.71). The FP regurgitant fraction measurements separated the patients with regurgitant valvular disease from those without and agreed well with CA grading of regurgitation.
Changes in central hemodynamics in chronic liver diseases (radiocardiologic study)]	Some indices of central hemodynamics: cardiac and systolic indices, specific peripheral resistance and circulating plasma and blood volumes were studied in 136 patients with chronic liver diseases using radionuclide cardiography. I. Three hemodynamic types of blood circulation (hyper-, eu- and hypokinetic) were defined in patients with chronic liver diseases as well as in healthy persons. II. In liver cirrhosis and ascites the number of patients with the hyperkinetic type of circulation increased significantly, mainly at the expense of patients with hypervolemia. III. A significant decrease in circulating plasma and blood volumes was noted in patients with liver cirrhosis complicated by ascites, with the hypokinetic type of circulation. It should be borne in mind in administration of diuretics to such patients. The above results suggested that different types of circulation in patients with chronic liver diseases were formed under the influence of the disease against a background of existing constitutionally and genetically determined hemodynamic heterogeneity.
Renal tubular uptake of protein: effect of pH.	The present study was performed to determine to what extent pH influences protein reabsorption in renal proximal tubule cells. Rat surface proximal tubules were microinfused in vivo with 125I-labelled albumin in buffer solutions at different pHs. Tubular uptake was determined as the difference between microinfused and urinary trichloroacetic acid-precipitable radioactivity. In separate experiments the tubular uptake was followed by electron microscope autoradiography. The results showed that the uptake at pH 4.5 and 6.0 was about 15% higher as compared to uptake at pH 7.4. Furthermore, the electron microscope autoradiography demonstrated that albumin is taken up by endocytosis at acid pH as under normal conditions.
Possibility of pulmonary circulation study with nongaseous radioactive isotopes]	This paper deales with the applications of radionuclides to the study of human pulmonary circulation for better knowledge of some morphological and dinamic functional aspects. At this time the methods used are divided in three groups in respect to the purpose. - Methods for static investigations of pulmonary perfusion, by scintigraphy with radioalbum aggregates. - Methods for dynamic investigation, general radiocardiography and selective right radiocardiography with radioalbum macroaggregates. - Methods for morpho-functional investigation, especially Isotopoangiocardiopneumography using gamma-camera and Tc99mO4. Here are treated the fields of applications, the purpose and the limits of these methods, used in a large number of and acquired pulmonary vascular diseases.
Albumin metabolism in rabbits and rats with transplanted tumours.	Albumin distributions and turnover rates have been studied using (131)I labelled tracer material in rabbits with Vx2 carcinoma and rats bearing SP7 fibrosarcoma in comparison with control animals. Albumin concentrations were reduced in the tumour bearing animals but plasma volumes increased as the tumours developed. Relative increases were seen in the extravascular distribution of albumin, due partly to albumin pooling in and around the tumours and possibly also to general increases in capillary permeability. In the rats there was a considerable increase in the catabolic rate of albumin which was not related to urinary protein loss. The tumour bearing rabbits showed evidence both of increased catabolism and of decreased synthesis and the combination of the two effects resulted in a greater lowering of albumin concentration than was seen in the rats. Possible mechanisms for these findings and their significance in human malignant disease are discussed.
The effect of hypophysectomy and growth hormone replacement on albumin synthesis and catabolism in the rat.	Albumin synthesis and catabolism were respectively measured by McFarlane's (1963) sodium [(14)C]carbonate method and I-labelled albumin in hypophysectomized rats, both untreated and treated with growth hormone. Hypophysectomy resulted in a decrease in both albumin synthesis and catabolic rates. These changes as shown by pair-feeding experiments could not be ascribed to decreased food intake alone. Growth hormone was shown to partially restore both albumin synthesis and catabolic rates. It is proposed that growth hormone stimulates albumin synthesis and that its effect on albumin catabolism is secondary to changes in the mass of the intravascular albumin pool.
Kinetics of chylomicron triglyceride removal from plasma in rats: a comparison of the anesthetized and the unanesthetized states.	The kinetics of chylomicron-TG removal were studied using an experimental method which allows measurements to be made under optimal physiological conditions. Chylomicrons, labeled with palmitic acid-(14)C, were constantly infused at a rate of 0.5 mg total lipid per min into chronically cannulated, unanesthetized, unrestrained rats which had been fasted for 18 hr. Serial blood samples were withdrawn from an arterial cannula during a 20 min infusion period and for 10 min following the infusion. Plasma lipoproteins were separated into two fractions in the ultracentrifuge, and the lipids were extracted. Radioactivity in the low-density fraction (d<1.006) was taken to represent chylomicron-TG radioactivity. Using this method we studied the influence of anesthesia on the kinetics of removal of chylomicron-TG. The following three phases of the radioactivity-time curve were plotted: (a) the increase in (14)C during infusion of chylomicrons, (b) the steady-state phase during the infusion, and (c) the decay of (14)C after chylomicron infusion was stopped. The values for the anesthetized rats failed to reach a steady-state phase during the course of the experiment. From the disappearance of (14)C following the end of the infusion, the apparent half time of removal of chylomicron-TG was estimated to be 2.8 +/- 0.37 min in unanesthetized rats, 4.5 +/- 0.37 min in rats anesthetized with sodium pentobarbital, and 4.4 +/- 0.44 min in rats anesthetized with halothane. Thus, two anesthetics with different physical properties markedly slowed the removal of chylomicron-TG from the circulation. The reduced rate may have resulted from alterations in cardiac output or distribution of blood flow induced by the anesthetic agents.
The state of water in human and dog red cell membranes.	The apparent activation energy for the water diffusion permeability coefficient, P(d), across the red cell membrane has been found to be 4.9 +/- 0.3 kcal/mole in the dog and 6.0 +/- 0.2 kcal/mole in the human being over the temperature range, 7 degrees to 37 degrees C. The apparent activation energy for the hydraulic conductivity, L(p), in dog red cells has been found to be 3.7 +/- 0.4 kcal/mole and in human red cells, 3.3 +/- 0.4 kcal/mole over the same temperature range. The product of L(p) and the bulk viscosity of water, eta, was independent of temperature for both dog and man which indicates that the geometry of the red cell membrane is not temperature-sensitive over our experimental temperature range in either species. In the case of the dog, the apparent activation energy for diffusion is the same as that for self-diffusion of water, 4.6-4.8 kcal/mole, which indicates that the process of water diffusion across the dog red cell membrane is the same as that in free solution. The slightly, but significantly, higher activation energy for water diffusion in human red cells is consonant with water-membrane interaction in the narrower equivalent pores characteristic of these cells. The observation that the apparent activation energy for hydraulic conductivity is less than that for water diffusion across the red cell membrane is characteristic of viscous flow and suggests that the flow of water across the membranes of these red cells under an osmotic pressure gradient is a viscous process.
The peripheral metabolism of triiodothyronine in normal subjects and in patients with hyperthyroidism.	In order to assess the contribution of 3.3',5-triiodo-L-thyronine (T(3)) to overall thyroid hormone economy, conjoint measurements of the kinetics of peripheral T(3) metabolism and the total concentration of T(3) in serum were made in a group of normal subjects and in a group of patients with hyperthyroid Graves' disease. As judged from the disappearance of trichloroacetic acid-precipitable (131)I from serum after a single intravenous dose of labeled T(3), the following mean values were obtained in the normal subjects: volume of distribution, 43 liters or 0.62 liter/kg; fractional turnover rate. 52% per 24 hr: clearance rate, 22.3 liters/24 hr: and absolute disposal rate, 60 mug/24 hr. In the patients with untreated hyperthyroidism, values for all these functions were greatly increased. After treatment, the volume of T(3) distribution returned to normal but the fractional turnover rate remained abnormally rapid.
Characteristics of pulmonary perfusion behavior in bronchial asthma]	Tuelwe patients with asthma were studied by scintigraphic, and isotopoangiocardiographic technics under acute attack. No regionals differences in the pulmonary blood-flow distribution were observed. The results are help ful in the knowledge of ventilation/perfusion relationships and alterations of blood gases produced from asthma attack.
Spontaneous canine hydrocephalus: cerebrospinal fluid dynamics.	Cerebrospinal fluid dynamics were studied in 14 dogs with spontaneous hydrocephalus. In nine of the dogs aqueductal obstruction was observed and the remainder had a `communicating type' hydrocephalus. The major histological findings consisted of severe ependymal destruction, spongy changes in the periventricular white matter, increased density of capillaries in this area, and varying degrees of thickening, fibrosis, and fusion of the choroid villi. The formation and absorption of CSF were studied by perfusion of the cerebral ventricles. The rate of formation of CSF was found to decrease with perfusion pressure by V(f) = 0路02595-0路00022 P ml./min (P = pressure in cm H(2)O). The absorption of spinal fluid was found to increase linearly with pressure by V(a) = 0路0165 + 0路00050 P. The various factors influencing the formation and absorption of the spinal fluid are discussed. The meaning and attainment of `arrest' of the hydrocephalic process in terms of the measured rates of CSF formation and absorption in these animals are considered.
Use of 125-I- and 51-Cr-labeled albumin for the measurement of gastrointestinal and total albumin catabolism.	A method for the simultaneous measurement of gastrointestinal protein loss and total albumin turnover entailing the use of a combination of (125)iodine- and (51)chromium-labeled albumin is described. Albumin turnover was calculated by the measurement of albumin-(125)I plasma decay and cumulative urinary excretion, and the results obtained agreed closely with previous studies utilizing albumin-(131)I. Gastrointestinal catabolism was calculated from the rate of fecal excretion of (51)Cr and the specific activity of plasma albumin-(51)Cr, and these data were related to the calculated albumin turnover results. During the period of 6-14 days after administration, the ratio of specific activties of albumin-(125)I and -(51)Cr in plasma and in extravascular spaces or gastric and biliary secretions remained almost identical. Fecal excretion of (51)Cr was also quite stable at this time. In six normal subjects gastrointestinal catabolism accounted for less than 10% of total albumin catabolism. Excessive gastrointestinal protein losses did not contribute to the low serum albumin in three patients with cirrhosis or in two adults with the nephrotic syndrome. Multiple mechanisms leading to hypoalbuminemia were demonstrated in other subjects with a variety of gastrointestinal disorders.
Uneven distribution of maternal and fetal placental blood flow, as demonstrated using macroaggregates, and its response to hypoxia.	A technique is described for studying the distribution of blood flow to the maternal and fetal placental vessels in sheep and dogs with radioactive labeled macroaggregates of albumin. When the maternal animal breathed room air the distribution of maternal placental blood flow was uneven among the cotyledons as well as within a given cotyledon. Fetal blood flow was also distributed nonuniformly among and within the cotyledons. The relation of maternal to fetal placental blood flow was also markedly uneven (coefficient of correlation, tau = 0.066). After the animal was made hypoxic by breathing 10-12% O(2) the distribution of maternal, fetal, and maternal/fetal placental flows became more uniform. The coefficient of correlation of maternal to fetal flow was high (tau = 0.53, P < 0.01). While the maternal animal breathed room air, after ligation of a major branch of the umbilical artery the distribution of maternal, fetal, and maternal/fetal flows in the remaining two-thirds to three-fourths of the placenta became more uniform. The correlation coefficient for maternal to fetal flow was high (tau = 0.35, P < 0.01).It appears that under normal circumstances with uneven distribution of blood flows there is a considerable portion of the placenta that does not receive blood flow in optimum quantities to promote efficient O(2) exchange. Failure to consider the influence of nonuniform maternal flow/fetal flow will result in overestimation of mean maternal-fetal oxygen tension gradients, and thus underestimation of the placental diffusing capacity for oxygen. In response to maternal hypoxia or compromise of the fetal placental circulation the distribution of maternal, fetal, and maternal/fetal flows becomes more uniform, thereby increasing the efficiency of placental O(2) exchange.
Clearance of edema fluid into cerebrospinal fluid. A mechanism for resolution of vasogenic brain edema.	The authors present the results of an investigation studying the resolution of vasogenic brain edema using cold injury in cats. The appearance of RISA-I131 and sucrose-C14 lebeled edema fluid in the ventricular cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was assessed by means of ventriculocisternal perfusion. The effect of low- or high-pressure perfusion on edema spread was determined by measuring the water, sodium, RISA-I131, and sucrose-C14 content of serial tissue blocks taken from the injured cortex through the white matter to the ventricular ependyma. The findings indicate that increasing the hydrostatic pressure gradient between edematous brain and CSF enhances the clearance of edema fluid into the ventricular CSF. This was conclusively demonstrated with low-pressure ventricular perfusion which markedly diminished the amount of edema close to the ventricles compared to the controls. The concentration of albumin, sodium, and potassium to the fluid removed from the tissue during low-pressure perfusion indicates that bulk flow was the primary method of edema movement through the extracellular space. With high-pressure perfusion the concentration profiles suggested alternative mechanisms of edema resolution, such as diffusion and reabsorption into capillaries.
The effect of growth retardation and of osteomalacia on the uptake of albumin by bone.	125I-labeled rat albumin injected intravenously into rats was taken up by growing bone. Some of this radioactive albumin could be removed from bone by washing with saline, the proportion so removed decreasing from 82.5% at 1 day to 7.4% at 8 days. Both the total radioactivity, and that remaining in bone after saline wash, were reduced when growth was slowed by alteration or restriction of the diet. Although the amount of 125I albumin in rachitic bone was reduced, autoradiography showed that radioactivity was present in rachitic osteoid. Immunoprecipitation using anti-rat-albumin serum showed that about half of the radioactivity released from normal bone by EDTA was still attached to albumin. These results suggest that albumin plays some part in the growth of bone.
Electroencephalographic and radionuclide studies in dialysis dementia.	Six maintenance hemodialysis patients with dialysis dementia (severe mental deterioration, speech disturbances, apraxia, facial grimacing, and myoclonus) were studied. They were matched with respect to age, duration of dialysis, and underlying renal disease with six patients who had no dementia and who acted as controls for the electroencephalographic (EEC) studies. The dementia patients had marked slowing of the EEG rhythm to 5--7 Hz with high voltage biphasic or triphasic spikes, and were clearly separated by frequency distribution analysis from the controls. Radio-iodinated serum albumin (RISA) cisternography in dementia patients demonstrated ventricular reflux, prolonged stasis, late appearance of the parasagittal strip, and persistence of RISA for up to 72--96 hr, which suggest an alteration in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) dynamics.
Effect of timepidium bromide, an anticholinergic agent, on gastric and duodenal blood flow distribution in rabbits.	Effects of timepidium bromide (TB; anticholinergic agent), acetylcholine (ACh) and neostigmine (Neost) on gastric and duodenal blood flow distribution were studied by the use of 131I-labeled macroaggregated human serum albumin (MAA) in rabbits. In normal rabbits, gastric blood flow was found to be uneven in various regions of the stomach: anterior corpus (50% of total gastric blood flow) greater than posterior corpus (40%) greater than pyloric antrum (7%). Intravenous administration of TB (200 microgram/kg) to normal rabbits produced a slight increase in total gastric blood flow, but the increase in the mucosal layer of the pyloric antrum was considerable. On the other hand, ACh (10 microgram/kg, i.v.) and Neost (50 microgram/kg. i.v.) significantly reduced the total gastric blood flow, in particular, the mucosal blood flow in the anterior and posterior corpus. This reduction in blood flow was virtually abolished by TB and was restored to the normal level. These results suggest that these cholinergic or anticholinergic drugs affect the gastric blood flow and that these effects may be mediated through muscarinic receptors. Blood flow in the duodenum was only slightly changed by these drugs.
Radiotracer assessment of gastric mucosal permeability after hypovolemic shock.	Acute lesions of the gastroduodenal mucosa may result from gastric mucosal ischemia with subsequent cellular dysfunction, capillary leakage and increased susceptibility to mucosal damage. A new technique for measuring the effect of hypovolemic shock and gastric mucosal permeability is presented. Piglets were injected intravenously with human serum albumin labelled with 100 micro Ci of iodine-131 (131I-HSA). Serial blood and gastric samples were obtained for gamma counting during the control, hypovolemic shock and resuscitative periods. Increased gastric acid secretion and clearance of labelled serum albumin occurred after resuscitation from hypovolemic shock. The authors believe that increased capillary permeability and defective gastric mucosal cell function due to ischemia contribute to these changes.
Measurement method for radioactive thyroxine, triiodothyronine, iodide, and iodoprotein in samples with low activity.	A method is described that incorporates resin extraction and thin layer chromatography to isolate and separate radioiodinated thyroxine (T4), triiodothyronine (T3), iodoprotein, and iodide in samples of human plasma up to 3 ml. Tracer studies using this method showed that reverse T3 and 3',5' diiodothyronine (T2), as well as T4, were detected in the "T4 fraction," and that 3-3' T2 and 3' monoiodothyronine, as well as T3, were detected in the "T3 fraction." Monoiodotyrosine and diiodotyrosine (DIT) migrated more slowly than did T4 on the chromatogram, and a large amount of DIT was in the unextracted "iodoprotein fraction." Kinetic studies in 14 normal subjects given intravenous commercial [125I]T3 (T3*) and [131I]T4 (T4*), confirmed the quantitative importance of an iodoprotein in later samples after T3* administration, and its presence after T4*. T4* contamination of commercial T3* also became quantitatively important. On the other hand, despite confirmation of in vivo conversion of T4* to T3*, T3* contributed little quantitatively to the total concentration of radioactivity present even late after T4* injection, due to the more rapid turnover and greater distribution volume of T3*.
The metabolism of C3 in adult coeliac disease.	To study possible pathogenetic mechanisms in adult coeliac disease, we performed a metabolic investigation of a component (C3) of the most important effector of humoral immunity, the complement system. Purified and biologically active C3 was labelled with 125I and injected together with 131I-labelled albumin into six patients with adult coeliac disease exhibiting different degrees of disease activity. The same labelled preparations were given to 12 normal individuals. Plasma and urine radioactivity were studied for a total of 8 days. Fractional catabolic rates (FCR) and synthesis rates were calculated by the metabolic clearance method. Other mathematical methods were not used because a final straight exponential was not always obtained, probably owing to extravascular sequestration of protein. An increased FCR was found in most patients, with the highest values seen in active, untreated disease. This suggests that activation of complement by immune complexes may be a pathogenetic factor in adult coeliac disease.
Alveolo-capillary permeability in human septic ARDS. Effect of high-dose corticosteroid therapy.	High-dose corticosteroid therapy has been advocated as adjunctive therapy in the adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). We evaluated the effect of pharmacologic doses of corticosteroid (methylprednisolone and dexamethasone) on alveolo-capillary permeability in human septic ARDS by examining the change in appearance of intravenously administered iodine 131 (131I) human serum albumin (I-HSA) into broncho-alveolar secretions, before and after corticosteroid administration. Of 19 patients examined, in 14 (group 1) the clearance of I-HSA was reduced by corticosteroid (pre, .204 +/- .08 ml;/hr; post, .096 +/- .01 ml/hr; P less than .001), while in five (group 2) it was unaffected (pre, .23 +/- .02 ml/hr; post, .215 +/- .01 ml/hr; P=NS). Group 2 patients were more severely ill than group 1 patients in that their mean intrapulmonary shunt fractions and mean pulmonary artery pressures were higher. We conclude that high-dose corticosteroid therapy may reduce alveolo-capillary permeability in human septic ARDS if used early in the course of the illness.
Continuous in vivo recordings of intraocular capillary and aqueous humor flows.	Multiple-point recordings of the initial slopes of xenon 133 and human serum albumin I125 washout from various ocular regions were utilized to visualize changes in capillary and aqueous humor bulk flow in vivo. Preservation of slope linearity is essential for sensitive responsiveness of recordings to flow change. Linearity is enhanced by the initial slope approach in which stability of physiological values and drug effects are maintained and slopes are closely fitted to multiple points. As examples of intraocular flow changes which may be observed and computed from such slopes, responses recorded in forty feline washout studies are presented and the fundamentals of washout recording interpretation are discussed.
Tracer oxygen distribution is barrier-limited in the cerebral microcirculation.	The kinetics of tracer oxygen distribution in the brain microcirculation of the awake dog were investigated with the multiple indicator dilution technique. A bolus containing 51Cr-labeled red blood cells, previously totally desaturated and then resaturated with [18O]2 (oxygen), 125I-albumin, 22Na, and [3H]water, was injected into the carotid artery, and serial anaerobic blood samples were collected from the sagittal sinus over the next 30 seconds. The outflow recovery curves were analyzed with a distributed-in-space two-barrier model for water and a one-barrier model for oxygen. The analysis provided an estimate of flow per gram brain weight as well as estimates for the tracer water and oxygen rate constants for blood-to-brain exchange and tracer oxygen parenchymal sequestration. Flow to tissue was found to vary between different animals, in concert with parallel changes in oxygen consumption. The 18O2 outflow curves showed an early peak, coincident with and more than half the magnitude of its vascular reference curve (labeled red blood cells), whereas the [3H]water curve increased abruptly to a low-in-magnitude curve at low flow values and to a small early peak at high flow values. Analysis indicates that the transfers of both 18O2 and [3H]water indicators from blood to brain are barrier-limited, with the former highly so because of the large red blood cell capacity for oxygen, and that the proportion of the tracer oxygen returning to the circulation from tissue is a small fraction of the total tracer emerging at the outflow.
Evaluation of perilla ketone-induced unilateral lung injury using external gamma scanning.	We used a modified external gamma scanning technique to quantitate right and left lung permeability changes to iodinated sheep albumin before and after perilla ketone (PK)-mediated unilateral lung injury in seven anesthetized sheep. Three portable gamma scintillation probes containing 2-in. NaI crystals detected radioactivities of 51Cr-labeled red blood cells and 125I-labeled albumin over the right and left lungs and blood, respectively. Radioactivities were monitored for 1 h before and 3 h after infusion of 25 mg/kg PK into a single lung. Calculation of normalized slope index (NSI) (Roselli and Riddle, J. Appl. Physiol. 67: 2343-2350, 1989) over the 30-min interval before PK and over the 60- to 90-min interval after PK for each lung revealed a four- to five-fold NSI increase in lungs receiving PK (0.00237 +/- 0.00065 to 0.0109 +/- 0.0016 min-1) and no increase in contralateral control lungs (0.00214 +/- 0.00065 to 0.00201 +/- 0.00032 min-1). Observed changes in NSI were consistent with postmortem evaluations of each lung. Lungs receiving PK had significantly higher wet-to-dry lung weight ratios and extravascular lung water volumes than contralateral control lungs. Measured bloodless wet-to-dry lung weight ratios were 5.68 +/- 0.39 and 3.27 +/- 0.27 (P < 0.05) for PK and control lungs, respectively.
Liposome-entrapped PGE1 posttreatment decreases IL-1 alpha-induced neutrophil accumulation and lung leak in rats.	We found that treatment with liposome-entrapped prostaglandin E1 (Lip-PGE1), but not with empty liposomes and/or free PGE1, decreased the leak of intravascularly administered 125I-labeled albumin into lungs of rats given interleukin-1 alpha (IL-1 alpha) intratracheally. Lip-PGE1 treatment also decreased lung myeloperoxidase activity, lung lavage neutrophil increases, and lung histological abnormalities found in rats given IL-1 alpha intratracheally. Interestingly, decreased lung leak and lung neutrophil accumulation occurred when Lip-PGE1 was given intravenously 2.5 h after, but not immediately before, intratracheal IL-1 alpha administration. When Lip-PGE1 treatment was given both before and 2.5 h after IL-1 alpha administration, lung leak was decreased to baseline levels. Lip-PGE1 treatment given 2.5 h after IL-1 alpha administration also decreased lung oxidized glutathione levels, which increased in rats given IL-1 alpha intratracheally. We conclude that postinsult treatment with Lip-PGE1 decreases lung leak, neutrophil recruitment, and oxidative responses in lungs of rats given IL-1 alpha intratracheally.
Measurement of plasma volume in rats with use of fluorescent-labeled albumin molecules.	We describe a method for measuring plasma volume (PV) in small animals that allows small sample sizes but does not require the use of radioisotopes and thus is a convenient approach for making repeated measurements. Texas Red covalently bound to albumin (TR-A) was used in a typical indicator-dilution technique to measure PV. The relative fluorescent intensity of TR-A is linear to its concentration (up to 0.15 mg/ml) at an excitation lambda of 590 nm and an emission lambda of 610 nm. Catheters were inserted through the right jugular vein of anesthetized rats and threaded into the vena cava. A 0.5-ml control blood sample was taken, a measured quantity of TR-A was injected, and the catheter was flushed with saline. A 0.5-ml postinjection sample was taken 5 min after TR-A injection. PV was calculated by comparing the difference between the relative fluorescent intensity of control and postinjection plasma samples to a standard. The PV of 22 rats [362 +/- 14 (SE) g] was 14.1 +/- 0.4 ml (39.6 +/- 0.9 ml/kg body wt) measured by the TR-A method and 12.8 +/- 0.4 ml (35.9 +/- 1.0 ml/kg body wt) measured by a standard radioiodinated albumin method. There was a strong correlation between PV measured by both methods in the same rat (r = 0.90, P < 0.01). Infusion experiments indicated that the TR-A method can detect acute changes in PV, and repeated measurements of PV made on a chronically instrumented rat demonstrated that the method can reliably measure PV on consecutive days.
Alveolar epithelial injury and pleural empyema in acute P. aeruginosa pneumonia in anesthetized rabbits.	We developed an experimental model of acute Pseudomonas aeruginosa pneumonia in anesthetized ventilated rabbits to determine whether bacterial-induced injury to the alveolar epithelium would occur and the effect of the injury on the pleural space. Dose-response studies established that 10(9) colony-forming units of P. aeruginosa (wild-type strain, PAO-1) were required to injure the epithelial barrier and to cause pleural empyema with exudative pleural effusions that contained both the instilled alveolar protein tracer and P. aeruginosa. We explored the mechanisms of P. aeruginosa-induced lung and pleural injury by using three isogenic bacterial strains to compare several extracellular virulence products. PAO-S21, which carries an insertion mutation in a regulatory gene that prevents the production of exoenzyme S, resulted in no lung or pleural injury. PAO-R1, which carries a deletion in a regulatory gene that controls the production of elastase and alkaline protease, caused the same degree of lung and pleural injury as PAO-1 did. Instillation of PLC-SRN, which has both structural genes encoding phospholipase C activity deleted, resulted in a moderate reduction in alveolar epithelial injury. Although other products may be involved, exoenzyme S and phospholipase C are important in mediating injury to the alveolar epithelial barrier in acute P. aeruginosa pneumonia in rabbits.
Amiloride inhibits arginine vasopressin-induced decrease in fetal lung liquid secretion.	The effects of arginine vasopressin (AVP) and amiloride were studied in 16 unanesthetized fetal sheep (129-135 days of age) with indwelling catheters. Secretion was measured by an impermeant tracer technique. Control fetuses showed no change in lung liquid secretion over a 5-h period with an average secretion rate of 3.6 +/- 0.31 ml.kg-1.h-1. Infusion of AVP (23.4 +/- 2.23 mU.kg-1.min-1) in seven fetuses (134-140 days of age) produced significant decreases (from control) in the secretion rate over a 5-h period: the secretion rate decreased by 68% in the last hour. Amiloride placed in the lung liquid during infusion of AVP, but after AVP effects had taken place, reversed the AVP-induced decrease in lung liquid secretion. AVP in conjunction with other hormones that are elevated during the stress of birth (epinephrine and cortisol) may be important in the removal of lung fluid at birth.
Evaluation of effects of PAF on alveolar fluid clearance with use of NMR imaging.	Autologous serum with or without platelet-activating factor (PAF) was instilled into one lung lobe of an anesthetized cat, and changes in the regional lung water content were monitored for 4 h with proton nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) images and relaxation time measurements. With serum as an instillate, water was cleared with a half time of approximately 670 min; after 4 h, 86 +/- 6% of that instilled remained. With PAF added to the instillate, clearance was biphasic with an initial clearance half time of approximately 30 min followed by clearance similar to that observed after serum instillation; after 4 h, 35 +/- 4% of that instilled remained. In contrast, 4 h after instillation of serum or serum plus PAF, 91 +/- 3% and 82 +/- 5%, respectively, of the instilled 125I-labeled albumin remained in the lung (P = 0.06). From transverse magnetization relaxation curves we were able to resolve two relaxation components, which we have attributed to the instilled fluid in the air spaces (relaxation time = 177 +/- 7 ms) and the tissue-bound fluid (relaxation time = 25 +/- 1 ms).
Continuous intraoperative external monitoring of perfusate leak using iodine-131 human serum albumin during isolated perfusion of the liver and limbs.	Regional isolated perfusion using tumor necrosis factor (TNF) shows significant promise for treatment of cancer which is limited to limbs or organs. The high toxicity of TNF requires very sensitive real time monitoring of leakage in order to avoid serious patient complications. Human serum albumin labeled with iodine-131 is used with an externally mounted and collimated NaI(Tl) detector to track the leakage of blood from the isolated perfusion blood circuit into the general systemic vascular space. Blood activity levels measured using the monitor demonstrated a very good correlation with blood serum samples taken concurrently with external monitoring. External monitoring can reduce the risks of perfusion leakage intraoperatively with the precision necessary to safely perform isolated perfusion using TNF.
Morphofunctional rearrangement of the drainage system of the limbs in acute disorders of blood- and lymph circulation]	The state of venous and lymphatic beds of extremities was studied in rabbits after resection of fragments of main veins and extirpation of popliteal lymph nodes in different series of experiments or in a single step. It has been established that independent of the kind of surgery the total drainage bed of the extremity is changed. Compensation of the disturbed outflow is realized due to development of collateral pathways and direct anastomoses in both beds as well as due to inclusion of paravasal collectors. The terms of recovery of the oxygen strain in muscles, chronaxy and rheobase of muscles as well as the time of passing labeled albumin through the foot-pelvis region (radio-isotope method) are objective criteria for estimation of the functional sufficiency of collateral pathways.
Plasma volume estimation in severely ill infants and children using a simplified Evans blue method.	Plasma volume was measured using Evans blue dye and 125iodinated human serum albumin (RIHSA) simultaneously in order to evaluate the accuracy of a simplified Evans blue method recommended by Nielsen and Nielsen (1962). 9 studies were performed in 8 newborn infants weighing 1.07 to 2.85 kg and 16 studies in 14 patients aged 6 months to 14 years suffering from severe circulatory disturbances. In 20 studies, plasma volumes measured by Evans blue and by RIHSA agreed within +/-5%, and in all the studies within +/-10%. The Evans blue method yielded higher plasma volumes than the RIHSA method in 19 instances. The mean difference (paired t-test) was only significant in newborn infants (+4.0+/-3.6%; P less than 0.05). The disappearance rates of Evans blue exceeded that of RIHSA in 16 studies, but this was only significant in the patients older than 6 months (+2.3+/-4.2%/h; P less than 0.05).
Percutaneous transhepatic catheterization of the portal vein for the study of portal hemodynamics and shunts. A preliminary report.	A technique for catheterizing the portal vein transhepatically, based on our method for percutaneous transhepatic cholangiography, is described. Using this technique, quantitation of the intrahepatic shunt and extrahepatic shunt from the splenoportal axis is possible. It involves injection of 99mTc-macroaggregated albumin into the splenic vein at the splenic hilum and 131I-macroaggregated albumin into the portal trunk, followed by differential counting over predetermined areas of the liver and lungs. Catheterization was successful in 20 of 30 patients in whom it was attempted. The intrahepatic shunt indices varied from 1.0 to 78.4% and the extrahepatic shunt indices ranged from 0 to 49.9%. These values appeared to correlate closely with the size of collaterals opacified by portography.
Elephantiasis of eyelids following repeated craniotomy. Case report.	A case is reported in which craniectomy for removal of right frontal meningioma was complicated by porencephaly. A peculiar granulomatous area was found over the brain at reoperation for cranioplasty. Iodine solution was used to paint the reactive material under the scalp flap. Giant swelling of the isilateral eyelids gradually developed, ascribed to interference with lymphatic drainage from the eyelids. There was no communication between eyelids and cerebrospinal fluid spaces. The enlarged eyelids were removed by ophthalmic plastic surgery.
Scintigraphy with 123I-serum amyloid P component in Alzheimer disease.	The neuropathology of Alzheimer disease (AD) includes cerebral and cerebrovascular amyloid deposits composed of A(beta) protein. Extracerebral deposits of A(beta), identified immunohistochemically, have also been reported but without evidence for the presence of amyloid fibrils. Serum amyloid P component (SAP) is a normal plasma glycoprotein that binds to the fibrils in all types of amyloid deposit, and radiolabeled SAP is a specific, sensitive, quantitative diagnostic tracer for systemic amyloid deposits in vivo. However, we report that in 11 patients with probable or definite AD, conventional whole body planar scintigraphy after injection of 123-SAP revealed no detectable localization of tracer within the brain or elsewhere. Significant amounts of systemic extracerebral A(beta) amyloid are thus probably not a feature of AD. Also, although plasma-derived SAP is always present in the cerebral and cerebrovascular amyloid lesions of AD, there was insufficient accumulation of injected labeled SAP to be detected by the present routine methodology.
Blood volume measurement at the bedside using ICG pulse spectrophotometry.	In the treatment of critically ill patients, blood volume (BV) measurement requires injection of some tracer substance and subsequent blood sampling to analyze the tracer concentration. To obviate both the sampling and laboratory analysis, techniques of pulse oximetry have been adapted to the noninvasive optical measurement in the patient's nose or finger of the arterial concentration of an injectable dye.
Circulating blood volume measured by pulse dye-densitometry: comparison with (131)I-HSA analysis.	Pulse dye-densitometry (PDD) is a newly developed technique for monitoring the arterial concentration of indocyanine green. Using this method, circulating blood volume (CBV) can be calculated without using radioisotopes. In this study, the CBV value obtained by PDD was validated by comparison using the human serum albumin ((131)I-HSA) dilution method.
