Expression cloning of a novel zinc finger protein that binds to the c-fos serum response element.	Induction of c-fos transcription by serum growth factors requires the serum response element (SRE). The SRE is a multifunctional element which responds to several positively and negatively acting signals. To identify cellular proteins that might mediate functions of the SRE, we screened a human cDNA expression library with an SRE probe. We report the isolation and characterization of SRE-ZBP, a previously unidentified SRE-binding protein. SRE-ZBP is a member of the C2H2 zinc finger family of proteins exemplified by TFIIIA and the Drosophila Krüppel protein. The seven tandemly repeated zinc finger motifs in SRE-ZBP are sufficient for high-affinity binding to the SRE. We show that SRE-ZBP is a nuclear protein and identify a candidate cellular protein encoded by the SRE-ZBP gene. Because we cannot detect any DNA-binding activity attributable to the endogenous protein, we propose that SRE-ZBP activity may be subject to posttranslational regulation. Like c-fos mRNA, SRE-ZBP mRNA is serum inducible in HeLa cells, but with slower kinetics. The role of SRE-ZBP in the regulation of c-fos transcription remains unestablished, but this protein binds to a region of the SRE where mutations lead to derepression.
v-Fps-responsiveness in the Egr-1 promoter is mediated by serum response elements.	Egr-1, a mitogen-responsive transcription factor, is rapidly induced by v-Fps in the absence of protein synthesis. Thus, Egr-1 is a primary response to the protein-tyrosine kinase activity of v-Fps. To determine the v-Fps-responsive elements in the Egr-1 promoter, deletion mutants of the Egr-1 promoter were used in transient expression assays. A v-Fps expression vector was contransfected into NIH 3T3 cells with chloramphenicol acetyl transferase (CAT) gene expression vectors under the control of the Egr-1 promoter or the Egr-1 promoter containing various deletions. Responsiveness to v-Fps was restricted to a region that contained repeated CC(A/T)6GG sequences, known as CArG boxes. CArG boxes form the core of serum response element (SREs). v-Fps-induced Egr-1 promoter activation was lost by sequential removal of four tandemly repeated SREs. This region, containing four SREs, was found to be sufficient for maximal Egr-1 induction by v-Fps when placed upstream from a heterologous promoter. Individual SREs from this region were able to respond to v-Fps, however, the activation of the individual SREs was lower than that observed for the clustered SREs. These data suggest that v-Fps-responsiveness in the Egr-1 promoter is mediated by SREs.
The serum response element and an AP-1/ATF sequence immediately downstream co-operate in the regulation of c-fos transcription.	Transcription of the c-fos gene is activated in response to a wide variety of extracellular stimuli and several cis-acting transcriptional control elements have been characterized. One of these elements is called the serum response element (SRE) and here we investigate an interaction between this element and an AP-1/ATF-like sequence immediately downstream from the SRE. In growing cells these sequences activate transcription in an additive fashion whereas in quiescent cells they co-operate to repress transcription. This co-operation is disrupted upon separation of the elements which also alters the response of the elements to serum or 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) stimulation of quiescent cells. This separation also results in an increase of transcription in growing cells. A consensus AP-1 DNA-binding site can substitute for the AP-1/ATF-like sequence present in the c-fos promoter to activate transcription in an additive fashion with the SRE in growing cells, and co-operate in repression in quiescent cells. These observations show that any interaction that may be occurring between proteins binding to these elements results in a different pattern of transcriptional control in growing and quiescent cells. Alternatively, different proteins (or modified proteins) may complex with these sequences in the two different states of cell growth.
Identification of a coactivator that increases activation of transcription by serum response factor and GAL4-VP16 in vitro.	We have identified an activity in HeLa cell nuclear extracts that increases activation of transcription in vitro by serum response factor (SRF). This coactivator activity, termed CoS, did not affect basal (TATA only) transcription. CoS initially fractionated with transcription factors TFIIE and -F but was further purified to separate it from both TFIIE and -F as well as any other general transcription factor activity. We found that CoS was not specific for SRF activation, since it also increased transcriptional activation by the chimeric GAL4-VP16 activator. Differences among CoS and recently identified coactivators are discussed.
Modulation of transcription factor NF-kappa B binding activity by oxidation-reduction in vitro.	NF-kappa B is a widely used regulator of inducible and tissue-specific gene control. In the cytosol, when complexed to an inhibitory molecule, I kappa B, NF-kappa B is in an inactive form and cannot bind DNA. Activation of cells with appropriate stimuli results in the dissociation of NF-kappa B from I kappa B and its translocation to the nucleus as an active binding protein. We now demonstrate that NF-kappa B binding in vitro can be inhibited by agents that modify free sulfhydryls. Binding is eliminated after treatment with N-ethylmaleimide, an alkylating agent, and diamide, an oxidizing agent. The diamide effect can be reversed by 2-mercaptoethanol. Further, 2-mercaptoethanol acts synergistically with deoxycholate plus Nonidet P-40 in converting inactive cytosolic NF-kappa B to an active DNA-binding form. It is therefore possible that modulation of the redox state of NF-kappa B could represent a post-translational control mechanism for this factor.
Identification of single-stranded-DNA-binding proteins that interact with muscle gene elements.	A sequence-specific DNA-binding protein from skeletal-muscle extracts that binds to probes of three muscle gene DNA elements is identified. This protein, referred to as muscle factor 3, forms the predominant nucleoprotein complex with the MCAT gene sequence motif in an electrophoretic mobility shift assay. This protein also binds to the skeletal actin muscle regulatory element, which contains the conserved CArG motif, and to a creatine kinase enhancer probe, which contains the E-box motif, a MyoD-binding site. Muscle factor 3 has a potent sequence-specific, single-stranded-DNA-binding activity. The specificity of this interaction was demonstrated by sequence-specific competition and by mutations that diminished or eliminated detectable complex formation. MyoD, a myogenic determination factor that is distinct from muscle factor 3, also bound to single-stranded-DNA probes in a sequence-specific manner, but other transcription factors did not. Multiple copies of the MCAT motif activated the expression of a heterologous promoter, and a mutation that eliminated expression was correlated with diminished factor binding. Muscle factor 3 and MyoD may be members of a class of DNA-binding proteins that modulate gene expression by their abilities to recognize DNA with unusual secondary structure in addition to specific sequence.
Expression of genes encoding the transcription factor SRF during early development of Xenopus laevis: identification of a CArG box-binding activity as SRF.	cDNA clones encoding the sequence-specific DNA binding protein, serum response factor (SRF), have been isolated from a Xenopus laevis neurula library and their nucleotide sequence determined. The Xenopus SRF (SRFX) gene produces multiple-sized transcripts, present at 10(5) copies per unfertilized egg. A similar level is detected in the embryo during early cleavage, but SRFX transcripts accumulate rapidly following gastrulation. The protein they encode is similar in sequence to human SRF in its central and carboxy-terminal regions, but possesses a divergent amino-terminal portion. We have previously described a Xenopus embryo sequence-specific binding activity that recognized the CArG motif of the cardiac actin gene promoter. Here we show that the DNA-binding characteristics of synthetic SRFX are indistinguishable from those of the embryo factor. Moreover, antiserum raised against the synthetic SRFX recognizes this factor. Together, these results establish that the same factor binds to elements required for constitutive transcription in Xenopus oocytes, muscle-specific gene expression in Xenopus embryos and serum-responsive transcription in cultured amphibian cells.
v-Src activates mitogen-responsive transcription factor Egr-1 via serum response elements.	Activating the protein-tyrosine kinase activity of v-Src in murine fibroblasts leads to increased expression of Egr-1, a mitogen-responsive transcription factor. v-Src-induced expression of Egr-1 is independent of protein synthesis and is controlled at the level of transcription. Target sequences responsive to v-Src-induced signals were investigated using deletion mutant and analysis of the Egr-1 promoter. Upstream Egr-1 promoter sequences linked to a reporter gene were cotransfected with a v-Src expression vector into NIH 3T3 cells. v-Src-enhanced gene expression from the Egr-1 promoter was dependent upon the presence of CC(A/T)6GG elements. The CC(A/T)6GG motif forms the core element of serum response elements (SREs) and is the binding site for serum response factor. The Egr-1 promoter sequences responsive to v-Src contained four SREs. Sequential deletion of these SREs reduced v-Src responsiveness to basal transcription levels. A single SRE from this region was able to confer v-Src responsiveness to a heterologous promoter, and a mutation to the CC(A/T)6GG box of this SRE abolished v-Src-enhanced gene expression. Thus, an early response of v-Src-induced intracellular signaling is the transcriptional activation of a growth factor-responsive transcription factor via an SRE.
A family of muscle gene promoter element (CArG) binding activities in Xenopus embryos: CArG/SRE discrimination and distribution during myogenesis.	The CArG box is an essential promoter sequence for cardiac muscle actin gene expression in Xenopus embryos. To assess the role of the CArG motif in promoter function during Xenopus development, the DNA-binding activities present in the embryo that interact with this sequence have been investigated. A family of four Embryo CArG box1 Factors (ECFs) was separated by a 2-step fractionation procedure. These factors were distinct from the previously described C-ArG box binding activity Serum Response Factor (SRF). ECF1 was the most prominent binding activity in cardiac actin-expressing tissues, and bound the CArG box in preference to a Serum Response Element (SRE). SRF was also detectable in muscle, but it bound preferentially to an SRE. The properties of ECF3 were similar to those of ECF1, but it was much less prominent in cardiac actin-expressing tissues. The properties of the two other factors were distinctive: ECF2 was of relatively low affinity and high abundance, whilst ECF4 bound non-specifically to ends of DNA. The binding activity (or activities) that interacted with the CArG box was found to be influenced by both the concentrations of the other CArG box binding activities and the sequence of the site. Although there was no evidence for a muscle-specific CArG box binding activity, the properties of ECF1 suggest that it could play a role in the expression of the cardiac actin gene during Xenopus development.
Mutation of serum response factor phosphorylation sites and the mechanism by which its DNA-binding activity is increased by casein kinase II.	Casein kinase II (CKII) phosphorylates the mammalian transcription factor serum response factor (SRF) on a serine residue(s) located within a region of the protein spanning amino acids 70 to 92, thereby enhancing its DNA-binding activity in vitro. We report here that serine 83 appears to be the residue phosphorylated by CKII but that three other serines in this region can also be involved in phosphorylation and the enhancement of DNA-binding activity. A mutant that contained glutamate residues in place of these serines had only low-level binding activity; however, when the serines were replaced with glutamates and further mutations were made that increased the negative charge of the region, the resulting mutant showed a constitutively high level of binding equal to that achieved by phosphorylation of wild-type SRF. We have investigated the mechanism by which phosphorylation of SRF increases its DNA-binding activity. We have ruled out the possibilities that phosphorylation affects SRF dimerization or relieves inhibition due to masking of the DNA-binding domain by an amino-terminal region of the protein. Rather, using partial proteolysis to probe SRF's structure, we find that the conformation of SRF's DNA-binding domain is altered by phosphorylation.
Dissecting protein:protein interactions between transcription factors with an RNA aptamer.	Nucleic acid aptamers isolated from random sequence pools have generally proven useful at inhibiting the interactions of nucleic acid binding proteins with their cognate nucleic acids. In order to develop reagents that could also be used to study protein:protein interactions, we have used in vitro selection to search for RNA aptamers that could interact with the transactivating protein Tax from human T-cell leukemia virus. Tax does not normally bind to nucleic acids, but instead stimulates transcription by interacting with a variety of cellular transcription factors, including the cyclic AMP-response element binding protein (CREB), NF-kappa B, and the serum response factor (SRF). Starting from a pool of greater than 10(13) different RNAs with a core of 120 random sequence positions, RNAs were selected for their ability to be co-retained on nitrocellulose filters with Tax. After five cycles of selection and amplification, a single nucleic acid species remained. This aptamer was found to bind Tax with high affinity and specificity, and could disrupt complex formation between Tax and NF-kappa B, but not with SRF. The differential effects of our aptamer probe on protein:protein interactions suggest a model for how the transcription factor binding sites on the surface of the Tax protein are organized. This model is consistent with data from a variety of other studies.
Involvement of multiple cis elements in basal- and alpha-adrenergic agonist-inducible atrial natriuretic factor transcription. Roles for serum response elements and an SP-1-like element.	In the present study, cis elements in the 5'-flanking sequence (FS) of the rat atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) gene involved in regulating basal and alpha 1-adrenergic-inducible transcription were investigated. Truncation analyses using ANF-luciferase reporter constructs transfected into primary neonatal rat cardiac myocytes showed that an A/T-rich serum response element (SRE) at -114 bp of the ANF 5'-FS, which bound serum response factor (SRF), was required for basal and inducible transcription. In constructs composed of 134 bp of rat ANF 5'-FS driving luciferase (ANF-134Luc), mutations in the SRE at -114 bp disrupted SRF binding and ANF promoter activity. However, the same mutations in ANF-638Luc had little effect, suggesting a collaborating role for more distal sequences, such as the other SRE in ANF-638 at -406 bp. In ANF-638Luc, mutations in the SRE at -406 bp that disrupted SRF binding to that site decreased ANF reporter activity by only 25%; however, mutating both of the SREs completely blocked alpha 1-adrenergic-inducible activity. Mutation analyses showed that an ... (SP-1)-like site at -69 bp, shown previously to confer inducibility in reporters with 134 bp of ANF 5'-FS, was not required in ANF-638Luc. However, double mutants in the SP-1-like region and either SRE completely blocked alpha 1-adrenergic-inducible ANF promoter activity. These findings emphasize that no single element is responsible for alpha 1-adrenergic agonist-regulated ANF transcription but that the SREs at -114 and -406 bp and the SP-1-like sequence at -69 bp mediate the effect in collaboration.
Differential activation of c-fos promoter elements by serum, lysophosphatidic acid, G proteins and polypeptide growth factors.	The upstream regulatory region of the c-fos promoter contains two growth factor-regulated promoter elements: the serum response element, which binds a ternary complex comprising serum response factor (SRF) and a ternary complex factor (TCF); and the sis-inducible element (SIE) which binds STAT transcription factors. We used transient transfection of c-fos promoter mutants in NIH 3T3 cells to assess the contributions of these elements to activation by different extracellular stimuli. Colony-stimulating factor-1, platelet-derived growth factor and epidermal growth factor activate the c-fos promoter via cooperation of the SIE and the SRE; however, mutants that can bind SRF but not STATs or TCF remain inducible by whole serum. Activation by the SIE is context-dependent: interferons activate STAT DNA binding activity and transcription of SIE reporter genes, but not the c-fos promoter, which requires an additional ras-dependent signal. SRE activation by receptor tyrosine kinases requires TCF binding, and can be mediated by the TCF Elk-1. In contrast, SRE activation following activation of heterotrimeric G proteins by lysophosphatidic acid or aluminium fluoride ion requires SRF but is independent of TCF binding. These results suggest that heterotrimeric G proteins activate a signalling pathway distinct from those that activate the STATs and the TCFs, that controls SRF activity.
In vivo regulation of interleukin-2 receptor alpha gene transcription by the coordinated binding of constitutive and inducible factors in human primary T cells.	IL-2R alpha transcription is developmentally restricted to T cells and physiologically dependent on specific stimuli such as antigen recognition. To analyse the mechanisms used to activate IL-2R alpha transcription as well as those used to block it in non-expressing cells, we determined the protein-DNA interactions at the IL-2R alpha locus in three different cell types using the DMS/LMPCR genomic footprinting method. CD25/IL-2R alpha can be efficiently induced in primary human T cells since approximately 100% express this gene when receiving an appropriate combination of mitogenic stimuli. To understand why IL-2R alpha is not expressed in other haematopoietic cell types, we analysed BJAB B lymphoma cells which do not express the IL-2R alpha gene and contain constitutively active nuclear NF-kappa B. Primary fibroblasts from embryo and adult skin were selected to examine the mechanisms that may be used to keep the IL-2R alpha gene inactive in non-haematopoietic cells. The three main results are: (i) the stable in vivo occupancy of IL-2R alpha kappa B element in resting T cells, most probably by constitutive NF-kappa B p50 homodimer that could impair SRF binding to the flanking SRE/CArG box; (ii) its inducible occupancy by NF-kappa B p50-p65 associated with the binding of an SRE/CArG box DNA-binding factor upon mitogenic stimulation; and (iii) a correlation between the precommitment of T cells to activation and the presence of stable preassembled protein-DNA complexes in contrast with the bare IL-2R alpha locus in non-T cells.
Nuclear import of serum response factor (SRF) requires a short amino-terminal nuclear localization sequence and is independent of the casein kinase II phosphorylation site.	Serum stimulation of resting cells is mediated at least in part at the transcriptional level by the activation of numerous genes among which c-fos constitutes a model. Serum response factor (SRF) forms a ternary complex at the c-fos serum response element (SRE) with an accessory protein p62TCF/Elk-1. Both proteins are the targets of multiple phosphorylation events and their role is still unknown in the amino terminus of SRF. While the transcriptional activation domain has been mapped between amino acids 339 and 508, the DNA-binding and the dimerization domains have been mapped to between amino acids 133-235 and 168-235, respectively, no role has been proposed for the amino-terminal portion of the molecule. We demonstrate in the present work that amino acids 95 to 100 contain a stretch of basic amino acids that are sufficient to target a reporter protein to the nucleus. Moreover, this sequence appears to be the only nuclear localization signal operating in SRF. Finally, whereas the global structure around this putative nuclear location signal is reminiscent of what is found in the SV40 T antigen, the casein kinase II phosphorylation site does not determine the rate of cyto-nuclear protein transport of this protein.
Muscle homeodomain protein MHox inhibits ternary complex formation at the c-fos serum response element.	The Serum Response Element in the c-fos promoter is the target of growth factor-regulated signal transduction pathways. The ternary complex of Serum Response Element-binding protein Serum Response Factor and its accessory protein Ternary Complex Factor are important for transcriptional stimulation of the c-fos promoter in fibroblasts. However, this promoter is repressed in differentiating muscle cells. We discovered that MHox, a muscle homeodomain protein, was capable of inhibiting formation of the ternary complex by direct physical interaction between MHox and Serum Response Factor accessory protein-1 (SAP-1), one member of the Ternary Complex Factor family of proteins. Furthermore, exogenous MHox protein inhibited serum-inducibility of a Serum Response Element-dependent reporter gene in permeabilized fibroblasts. Taken together, these results imply that MHox is involved in blocking mitogenic signals during myogenesis.
The transcription factors Elk-1 and serum response factor interact by direct protein-protein contacts mediated by a short region of Elk-1.	Transcriptional induction of the c-fos gene in response to epidermal growth factor stimulation is mediated in part by a ternary nucleoprotein complex within the promoter consisting of serum response factor (SRF), p62TCF/Elk-1 and the serum response element (SRE). Both SRF and p62TCF/Elk-1 contact the DNA and bind in a cooperative manner to the SRE. In this study, we demonstrate that SRF and Elk-1 interact directly in the absence of the SRE. A 30-amino-acid peptide from Elk-1 (B-box) is both necessary and sufficient to mediate protein-protein contacts with SRF. Moreover, the Elk-1 B-box is necessary to enable SRF-dependent binding of an alternative ETS domain (from the transcription factor PU.1) to the c-fos SRE. Mutations in either the Elk-1 B-box or the C-terminal half of the SRF DNA-binding domain (coreSRF) which show reduced ability to form ternary complexes also show greatly reduced protein-protein interactions in the absence of the SRE. Our results clearly demonstrate that direct protein-protein interactions between the transcription factors Elk-1 and SRF, in addition to DNA contacts, contribute to the formation of a ternary complex on the c-fos SRE. We discuss the wider applicability of our results in describing specific protein-protein interactions between short well-defined transcription factor domains.
The avian cardiac alpha-actin promoter is regulated through a pair of complex elements composed of E boxes and serum response elements that bind both positive- and negative-acting factors.	The chicken alpha-cardiac actin is one of the earliest contractile protein genes selectively expressed during embryonic skeletal and cardiac muscle differentiation. Cardiac actin promoter elements were examined in these two sarcomeric cell types. A portion of the alpha-cardiac actin promoter responsible for striated muscle specificity has been delineated (1, 2) and shown to contain four serum response elements (SRE). Previously, SRE3 was shown to be part of a complex element in conjunction with a functional E box (2), and we now show that SRE4 is also part of an upstream SRE.E box cis-element complex. The SREs function similarly, but the E boxes have dissimilar properties within and between striated muscle types. The SRE3.E1 box binds myogenic basic helix-loop-helix factors and is required for cardiac actin trans-activation in primary muscle cell cultures but functions as a negative regulatory element in cardiac muscle cells. The SRE4.E2 box, on the other hand, fails to bind basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) factors, is negative acting in skeletal muscle cells, and is positive acting in cardiac myocytes. A DNA binding factor similar to HF1a (3) was identified that interacts specifically with the SRE4.E2 box. This study shows that the avian cardiac actin promoter elements are differentially used between skeletal and cardiac striated muscle cell lineages.
Urea inducibility of egr-1 in murine inner medullary collecting duct cells is mediated by the serum response element and adjacent Ets motifs.	The renal medullary solute urea increases transcription and protein expression of the zinc finger-containing transcription factor Egr-1 in a renal epithelial cell-specific fashion. Transient transfection of mIMCD3 cells with a luciferase reporter gene driven by 1.2 kilobases of the murine egr-1 5'-flanking sequence showed 4-fold increase in reporter gene activity with 200 mM urea treatment. The effect of impermeant solutes such as NaCl was much less pronounced, whereas the permeant solute glycerol had no effect. In addition, this same sequence, minus the egr-1 minimal promoter, conferred urea responsiveness to a heterologous (thymidine kinase) promoter. Whereas deletion of two putative AP-1 sites from the sequence had no effect upon urea inducibility, elimination of the five putative serum response elements (SREs) abolished the urea effect. Progressive deletion of the SREs caused a corresponding diminution in urea effect. Two key tandem SREs (SRE-3 and SRE-4), in conjunction with their two adjacent clusters of Ets motifs, were sufficient to confer urea responsiveness to a reporter gene. This response was markedly attenuated in the absence of either cluster of Ets motifs and was abolished if both clusters were deleted. By electrophoretic mobility shift assay, formation of the ternary complex was constitutive and was demonstrable in vitro despite the presence of 200 mosm urea or NaCl. Therefore urea-inducible egr-1 transcription in renal medullary cells is mediated through the SRE and adjacent Ets motifs; ternary complex formation is not inhibited even in the presence of physiological hyperosmolality.
Expression of the serum response factor gene is regulated by serum response factor binding sites.	The serum response factor (SRF) is a ubiquitous transcription factor that plays a central role in the transcriptional response of mammalian cells to a variety of extracellular signals. Notably, SRF has been found to be a key regulator of members of a class of cellular response genes termed immediate-early genes (IEGs), many of which are believed to be involved in regulating cell growth and differentiation. The mechanism by which SRF activates transcription of IEGs in response to mitogenic agents has been extensively studied. Significantly less is known about how expression of the SRF gene itself is mediated. We and others have previously shown that the SRF gene is itself transiently induced by a variety of mitogenic agents and belongs to a class of "delayed" early response genes. We have cloned the SRF promoter and in the present study have analyzed the upstream regulatory sequences involved in mediating serum responsiveness of the SRF gene. Our analysis indicates that inducible SRF expression requires both SRF binding sites located within the first 63 nucleotides upstream from the start site of transcriptional initiation and an Sp1 site located 83 nucleotides upstream from the start site. Maximal transcriptional activity of the promoter also requires two CCAATT box sites located 90 and 123 nucleotides upstream of the start site.
Tec/Bmx non-receptor tyrosine kinases are involved in regulation of Rho and serum response factor by Galpha12/13.	A transient transfection system was used to identify regulators and effectors for Tec and Bmx, members of the Tec non-receptor tyrosine kinase family. We found that Tec and Bmx activate serum response factor (SRF), in synergy with constitutively active alpha subunits of the G12 family of GTP-binding proteins, in transiently transfected NIH 3T3 cells. The SRF activation is sensitive to C3, suggesting the involvement of Rho. The kinase and Tec homology (TH) domains of the kinases are required for SRF activation. In addition, kinase-deficient mutants of Bmx are able to inhibit Galpha13- and Galpha12-induced SRF activation, and to suppress thrombin-induced SRF activation in cells lacking Galphaq/11, where thrombin's effect is mediated by G12/13 proteins. Moreover, expression of Galpha12 and Galpha13 stimulates autophosphorylation and transphosphorylation activities of Tec. Thus, the evidence indicates that Tec kinases are involved in Galpha12/13-induced, Rho-mediated activation of SRF. Furthermore, Src, which was previously shown to activate kinase activities of Tec kinases, activates SRF predominantly in Rho-independent pathways in 3T3 cells, as shown by the fact that C3 did not block Src-mediated SRF activation. However, the Rho-dependent pathway becomes significant when Tec is overexpressed.
Oxidant stress incites spreading of macrophages via extracellular signal-regulated kinases and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase.	Cultured macrophages exhibit spreading in response to external stimuli. It is relevant to in vivo morphologic changes of macrophages during extravasation, migration, and differentiation. The present study was performed to elucidate molecular mechanisms that regulate spreading of macrophages. Redox is a crucial factor that modulates a wide range of cell function. We found that macrophages undergo spreading in response to oxidant stress caused by hydrogen peroxide or an oxidant generating agent menadione. To identify signaling pathways involved, a role of mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases was investigated. Western blot analysis showed that treatment of macrophages with menadione rapidly induced phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK1, ERK2) and p38 MAP kinase, but not c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). Pharmacologic inhibition of either ERK or p38 activation blunted the macrophage spreading. Similarly, transfection with dominant-negative mutants of ERKs or a mutant p38 significantly suppressed the oxidant-triggered spreading. ERKs and p38 are known to activate serum response element (SRE) via phosphorylation of the ternary complex factor Elk-1. To further identify downstream events, we focused on a role of SRE. Stimulation of macrophages with menadione induced activation of SRE. Intervention in the SRE activation by a dominant-negative mutant of Elk-1 inhibited the menadione-induced spreading. These results suggest that oxygen radical metabolites, the well-known mediators for tissue injury, incite spreading of macrophages via the MAP kinase-SRE signaling pathways.
Specific involvement of G proteins in regulation of serum response factor-mediated gene transcription by different receptors.	Regulation of serum response factor (SRF)-mediated gene transcription by G protein subunits and G protein-coupled receptors was investigated in transfected NIH3T3 cells and in a cell line that was derived from mice lacking Galphaq and Galpha11. We found that the constitutively active forms of the alpha subunits of the Gq and G12 class of G proteins, including Galphaq, Galpha11, Galpha14, Galpha16, Galpha12, and Galpha13, can activate SRF in NIH3T3 cells. We also found that the type 1 muscarinic receptor (m1R) and alpha1-adrenergic receptor (AR)-mediated SRF activation is exclusively dependent on Galphaq/11, while the receptors for thrombin, lysophosphatidic acid (LPA), thromboxane A2, and endothelin can activate SRF in the absence of Galphaq/11. Moreover, RGS12 but not RGS2, RGS4, or Axin was able to inhibit Galpha12 and Galpha13-mediated SRF activation. And RGS12, but not other RGS proteins, blocked thrombin- and LPA-mediated SRF activation in the Galphaq/11-deficient cells. Therefore, the thrombin, LPA, thromboxane A2, and endothelin receptors may be able to couple to Galpha12/13. On the contrary, receptors including beta2- and alpha2-ARs, m2R, the dopamine receptors type 1 and 2, angiotensin receptors types 1 and 2, and interleukin-8 receptor could not activate SRF in the presence or absence of Galphaq/11, suggesting that these receptors cannot couple to endogenous G proteins of the G12 or Gq classes.
Ca2+ channel-regulated neuronal gene expression.	Neuronal activity is required for the survival of specific populations of neurons, for the proper synaptic organization of the visual and somatosensory cortex, and for learning and memory. The biochemical mechanisms that couple brief neuronal activity to rapid and lasting adaptive changes within the nervous system are poorly understood. Over a decade ago, it was first shown that mimicking neuronal activity by membrane depolarization rapidly induced the expression of a class of genes known as immediate early genes. Subsequently, it has been shown that neuronal activity triggers a temporal sequence of gene expression that has been suggested to play a role in mediating long-term adaptive responses. A major mechanism coupling neuronal electrical activity and the intracellular biochemical processes that culminate in gene expression is Ca2+ influx through plasma membrane Ca2+ channels. In this review, we delineate some of the reported mechanisms by which Ca2+ regulates gene expression: from its ability to activate specific intracellular signal transduction pathways to its ability to regulate the initiation, elongation, and translation of RNA transcripts. We will discuss some known mechanisms by which different patterns of Ca2+ influx, or Ca2+ influx through different types of channel, could generate distinct patterns of gene expression and how our understanding of Ca2+-regulated gene expression relates to larger questions of activity-dependent nervous system function.
Effect of serum and mechanical stretch on skeletal alpha-actin gene regulation in cultured primary muscle cells.	The purpose of this study was to determine whether mechanical stretch or serum availability alters pretranslational regulation of skeletal alpha-actin (SkA) in cultured striated muscle cells. Chicken primary skeletal myoblasts and cardiac myocytes were plated on collagenized Silastic membranes adherent to nylon supports and stretched 8-20% of initial length 96 h postplating. Serum dependence of SkA gene regulation was determined by maintaining differentiated muscle cells in growth/differentiation (G/D; skeletal myotubes, 10% horse serum-2% chick embryo extract; cardiac myocytes, 10% horse serum) or growth-limiting (G-L; 0.5% horse serum) medium. Skeletal myotubes had higher SkA mRNA and SkA promoter activity in G/D than in G-L medium. Cardiac myocyte SkA mRNA was higher in G-L than in G/D medium. Serum response factor (SRF) protein binding to serum response element 1 (SRE1) of SkA promoter increased in skeletal cultures in G/D compared with G-L medium. Western blot analysis demonstrated that increased SRF-SRE1 binding was due, in part, to increased SRF protein. Stretching skeletal myotubes in G-L medium reduced SkA mRNA and repressed SkA promoter activity. The first 100 bp of SkA promoter were sufficient for stretch-induced repression of SkA promoter activity, and an intact transcriptional enhancer factor 1 (TEF-1) binding site was necessary for this response. Serum and stretch appear to repress SkA promoter activity in skeletal myotubes through different DNA binding elements, the SRE1 and TEF-1 sites, respectively. Stretching increased SkA mRNA in cardiac myocytes in G-L medium but did not alter SkA mRNA level in cardiac cells in G/D medium. These results demonstrate that stretch and serum interact differently to alter SkA expression in cultured cardiac and skeletal muscle cells.
