The mesangial cell in glomerulonephritis. I. Mechanisms of hypercellularity in experimental immune complex glomerulonephritis.	One-shot active immune complex glomerulonephritis was induced in rabbits by intravenous bovine serum albumin (250 mg. per kg.) and the mechanism of glomerular hypercellularity investigated. Most of the extra cells were mononuclear with few polymorphonuclear leukocytes. Fibrin was present in severe lesions. Glomerular mitoses were seen in normal kidneys but were more common in hypercellular glomeruli. This is direct evidence of local proliferation. Also, biopsies taken 1 hour after giving tritiated thymidine contained locally labeled cells. The mitotic rate and degree of local labeling both varied in proportion to the degree of hypercellularity. By electron microscopy both mesangial and endothelial cells were identified in mitosis. The majority of the mononuclear cells in the hypercellular glomeruli could not be identified by position or ultrastructure. Infiltration by nonglomerular cells was confirmed by the presence of macrophages, lymphocytes, and plasma cells.
Bovine serum albumin and insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus; is cow's milk still a possible toxicological causative agent of diabetes?	The implication of bovine serum albumin (BSA) in cow's milk as a causative agent for the onset of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) is a major topic of scientific debate not withstanding the medical and economic implications. A critical survey of the pertinent literature has revealed a number of controversies. For example, an important toxicological aspect of BSA is the presence of ABBOS, a peptide segment of the protein. However, the nature and effect of ABBOS on the death of insulin producing cells (beta-cells of the pancreas) is unclear and hence inconclusive. In addition, studies in diabetes-prone mice and rats appear to show that cow's milk does not alter the frequency of diabetes in these organisms. It is suggested that BSA may not be the cause of diabetes. Instead, IDDM is most likely the result of oxidative stress, due to high local levels of nitric oxide (NO*) and oxygen radicals (O2*-), on the beta-cells of the pancreas, which eventually leads to their destruction.
IgE reactivity to vaccine components in dogs that developed immediate-type allergic reactions after vaccination.	Allergic reactions after vaccination are considered as an important practical problem in dogs; however, their immunological mechanism has not been well understood. The present study was designed to investigate the relationship between IgE reactivity to the vaccines and immediate-type allergic reactions after vaccination in dogs. Sera from 10 dogs that developed immediate-type allergic reactions such as circulatory collapse, cyanosis, dyspnea, facial edema, and vomiting within 1h after vaccination with non-rabies monovalent or combined vaccines and sera from 50 dogs that did not develop allergic reactions after vaccination were collected. Serum IgE reactivity to the injected vaccines was measured by fluorometric ELISA using a mouse monoclonal anti-dog IgE antibody. Then, IgE reactivity to fetal calf serum (FCS) and stabilizer proteins (gelatin, casein, and peptone) included in the vaccines was measured in sera that had high levels of IgE to the vaccines. Levels of serum specific IgE to the vaccines in dogs with immediate-type allergic reactions (59-4173 fluorescence units [FU], mean +/- S.D.: 992.5 +/- 1181.9 FU) were significantly higher than those in control dogs (38-192 FU, 92.4 +/- 43.3 FU) (P < 0.001). Of the eight dogs that developed immediate-type allergic reactions and had high levels of serum specific IgE to the vaccines, seven had specific IgE directed to FCS. The IgE reactivity to the vaccines in sera from these dogs was almost completely inhibited by FCS. The other one dog had serum IgE directed to gelatin and casein included in the vaccine as stabilizers. The results obtained in this study suggest that immediate-type allergic reactions after vaccination in dogs were induced by type I hypersensitivity mediated by IgE directed to vaccine components. In addition, FCS, gelatin, and casein included in vaccines could be the causative allergens that induced immediate-type allergic reactions after vaccination in dogs.
Immunoblot analysis for IgE-reactive components of fetal calf serum in dogs that developed allergic reactions after non-rabies vaccination.	We previously demonstrated the presence of IgE directed to fetal calf serum (FCS) in the sera from dogs that developed allergic reactions after vaccination. In this study, by an immunoblot analysis, we investigated the IgE-reactive components of FCS using sera from 16 dogs that exhibited allergic reactions after vaccination. The immunoblot analysis revealed that several FCS proteins of approximately 25-, 50-, 66-, 75-, 120-, and 175-kDa strongly reacted with IgE in the sera from dogs that showed post-vaccination allergic reactions. The 66-kDa band was detected in the sera from 14 of the 16 dog serum samples analyzed in the immunoblot analysis for FCS, and it was speculated to be albumin based on its molecular weight; however, serum IgE reactivity to bovine serum albumin could be detected in only four of the 14 dog samples. These findings demonstrated that a variety of FCS components including albumin could function as allergens in dogs that developed allergic reactions after vaccination.
Anaphylaxis during intrauterine insemination secondary to bovine serum albumin.	A case of anaphylaxis is reported after IUI with sperm processed in Tyrode's solution supplemented with BSA. The patient had a positive prick cutaneous test to BSA and also had specific IgE antibody against it. Repeat IUI using the patient's own blood serum instead of BSA for processing the sperm proceeded without incident. Clinicians should be aware of this rare, but not inconsequential, adverse effect of using xenogeneic proteins during IUI and other assisted reproductive techniques.
Treatment of lethal pertussis vaccine reaction with histamine H1 antagonists.	We studied mortality after pertussis immunization in the mouse. Without treatment, 73 of 92 animals (80%) died after injection of bovine serum albumin (BSA) on day +7 of pertussis immunization. After pretreatment with 3 mg of cyproheptadine, 2 mg mianserin, or 2 mg chlorpheniramine, only 5 of 105 animals (5%) died after receiving BSA on day +7 (p less than 0.001). Blockade of histamine H1 receptors may reduce mortality in pertussis immunization-induced encephalopathy in mice.
