Peripheral effects of centrally administered interleukin-1beta in mice in relation to its clearance from the brain into the blood and tissue distribution.	Administration of interleukin IL-1 induces acute-phase response and inhibition of gastric secretion more efficiently when administered intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) than when the same dose of IL-1 is administered systemically. In this study we describe the pharmacokinetics of IL-1beta, administered centrally or systemically, in the serum or in peripheral tissues. IL-1beta administered i.c.v. resulted in higher peak IL-1beta concentrations, and lasted longer, than intravenous (i.v.) or intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration. Higher IL-1beta levels in the liver and heart were observed after i. c.v. administration (compared to the i.p. or i.v. route). Our data suggest that centrally injected IL-1 induces higher circulating and hepatic IL-1 levels and contributes to the fact that the i.c.v. route of administration is particularly effective in inducing a liver acute-phase response.
Does gabexate mesilate affect serum concentrations of acute phase proteins after endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography examination?	To explore the possibility that the preventive effect of gabexate mesilate on endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography-related acute pancreatitis may be mediated by its modulation of acute phase proteins.
From renal amyloid deposits to the identification of the culprit genes.	Hereditary amyloidoses with renal involvement are classified in two groups. The first group is a growing family of autoinflammatory disorders characterized by recurrent fever attacks. Amyloidosis is caused by the deposition of amyloid A (AA) protein, which is a degradation product of a normal serum acute-phase protein: serum amyloid A (SAA). The prototype is familial Mediterranean fever (FMF). TNF Receptor Associated Periodic Syndrome (TRAPS) is a recently recognized periodic fever syndrome, differing from FMF in several characteristics: autosomal-dominant transmission, longer duration of attacks, and lack of response to colchicine prophylaxis. The second group comprises a variety of disorders, each characterized by the deposition of a specific mutant protein. The prototype is transthyretin amyloidosis (TTR). Identification of the form of amyloidosis has clinical implications. Therefore, in a patient with a history of recurrent fever attacks and AA amyloidosis, a diagnosis of FMF or TRAPS dictates appropriate genetic counseling and management. In patients with renal amyloidosis without a history of fever, identification of the mutant protein is therapeutically crucial; therefore, when the cell type that produces the precursor is (exclusively or mainly) the hepatocyte, a liver transplantation is to be considered.
Familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) and renal AA amyloidosis--phenotype-genotype correlation, treatment and prognosis.	Familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) is an autosomal recessive disease, which primarily affects the population surrounding the Mediterranean basin. It is characterized by recurrent attacks of fever and peritonitis, pleuritis, arthritis or erysipelas-like erythema. Amyloidosis, causing renal failure, is one of the most severe complications of the disease. The gene associated with FMF (MEFV) has been recently isolated. Phenotype-genotype correlation studies revealed that amyloidosis was more common in FMF patients originating from North-Africa who were homozygous for the M694V mutation. Such a correlation was not found in Turkish patients. The risk of amyloidosis is increased in male FMF patients and in patients bearing polymorphism a/a in the SAA1 gene. Colchicine is the chosen drug for the treatment of FMF and can prevent amyloidosis.
Secretion and accumulation of Abeta by brain vascular smooth muscle cells from AbetaPP-Swedish transgenic mice.	Alzheimer amyloid-beta is deposited in the neuropil and in brain blood vessels in transgenic Tg2576 mice that overexpress human amyloid-beta precursor protein (AbetaPP) containing the Swedish mutation (AbetaPP-Swe). Because the AbetaPP transgene in Tg2576 mice is placed behind the PrP promoter, all amyloid-beta, including vascular amyloid, is considered to be of neuronal origin. We studied the expression of the transgenic AbetaPP in smooth muscle cells cultured from brain blood vessels from Tg2576 mice. We found that brain vascular smooth muscle cells overexpressed human AbetaPP-Swe approximately 4 times the physiological levels of mouse AbetaPP. The cultured cells secreted abundant Abeta1-40 and Abeta1-42 and formed intracellular Abeta-immunoreactive granules. The percentage of cells containing intracellular Abeta and the amount of intracellular Abeta were significantly higher in cultures obtained from 14-month-old than from 4-month-old mice, as tested on first or second passages. During cell senescence in culture, intracellular accumulation of Abeta and C-terminal fragments of AbetaPP increased in cells derived from both 4- and 14-month-old mice. Vascular muscle cells from Tg2576 mice appear to be a valuable model of the intracellular accumulation of Abeta. We suggest that vascular muscle cells may be involved in the production of cerebrovascular amyloid in Tg2576 mice.
High prevalence of metabolic syndrome among young women with nonfatal myocardial infarction.	The aim of this study was to determine if the metabolic syndrome (MetS) or other risk factors might be common among young women with nonfatal myocardial infarction (MI).
Acute phase protein concentrations in serum and milk from healthy cows, cows with clinical mastitis and cows with extramammary inflammatory conditions.	The concentrations of the two acute phase proteins, serum amyloid A and haptoglobin, in serum and milk were compared in 10 cows with clinical mastitis, 11 cows with extramammary inflammatory conditions and 10 clinically healthy control cows. The concentrations of both acute phase proteins were higher in the serum and milk of the cows with mastitis than in the cows in the other two groups. Four of the cows with extramammary inflammatory conditions had serum amyloid A concentrations in serum above 100 microg/ml, but negligible concentrations in milk, indicating that a pathogen must be present in the mammary gland for serum amyloid A to accumulate in milk. The acute phase protein concentrations in milk increased significantly with increasing somatic cell count, suggesting that they may be indicators of the severity of an infection.
Adherence to the Mediterranean diet attenuates inflammation and coagulation process in healthy adults: The ATTICA Study.	We studied the effect of the Mediterranean diet on plasma levels of C-reactive protein (CRP), white blood cell counts, interleukin (IL)-6, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, amyloid A, fibrinogen, and homocysteine.
Effect of low dose atorvastatin versus diet-induced cholesterol lowering on atherosclerotic lesion progression and inflammation in apolipoprotein E*3-Leiden transgenic mice.	To evaluate whether low-dose atorvastatin suppresses atherosclerotic lesion progression and inflammation in apolipoprotein E*3 (apoE*3)-Leiden mice beyond its cholesterol-lowering effect.
Characterization of splenic glycosaminoglycans accumulated in vivo in experimentally induced amyloid-susceptible and amyloid-resistant mice.	The pathogenesis of the amyloid deposition diseases is poorly understood. The CE/J mouse, which is naturally protected from amyloid A (AA) protein amyloidosis, has provided a tool to study mechanisms that may be implicated in amyloid deposition diseases by means of comparison of findings with those in an AA-susceptible mouse strain. We have compared proteoglycan/glycosaminoglycan accumulation in vivo in amyloid-protected CE/J mouse strain and in AA-susceptible CBA/J mouse strain in homeostasis and when injected with amyloid-inducing agents. Results indicate that there is an overall increase in [(35)S]proteoglycan/glycosaminoglycan accumulation in the spleens of both strains of mice, but with a specific increase in heparan sulfate in only CBA/J mouse spleens that are rich in amyloid. Further, we report the absence of heparan sulfate in the splenic perifollicular areas of amyloid-free CE/J mouse, whereas in the amyloid-laden CBA/J mouse there is co-localization of heparan sulfate with the AA deposits. We have also examined the glycosaminoglycan disaccharide products in both these strains of mice for their sulfation positions and found no differences in the disaccharide composition of chondroitin/dermatan sulfate and heparan sulfate isolated from the control CBA/J and control CE/J mice. There were no differences in chondroitin/dermatan sulfate in both strains after experimental induction. However, analysis of the heparan sulfate disaccharides by means of capillary high-performance liquid chromatography linked to microelectrospray ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry indicated that the disaccharide composition of the splenic heparan sulfate obtained from the treated CBA/J mice that had developed amyloid was markedly different from that obtained from the control CBA/J mice and the treated amyloid-resistant CE/J mice. These findings suggest that unique heparan sulfates play a fundamental role in the pathogenesis of amyloid.
Serum amyloid A protein levels as a possible aid in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis in children.	Hematological and biochemical tests, including white blood cell count (WBC), C-reactive protein (CRP) and other acute-phase reactants, have been used in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis. However, there is controversy among physicians about the value of this practice in children. The objective of our study was to evaluate serum amyloid A protein (SAA) levels in children with confirmed acute appendicitis and to compare the sensitivity and specificity of this marker of inflammation with those for WBC and CRP. A prospective cohort study of 60 children admitted with abdominal pain to rule out appendicitis was used in the study. Of these, 42 underwent surgery, while 18 children who had spontaneous amelioration within 24 h of admission were not operated on and served as controls. WBC and serum SAA and CRP levels were obtained preoperatively. Serum concentrations of the analytes were determined with particle-enhanced immunonephelometric methods. Patients with acute appendicitis had WBC, SAA and CRP levels higher than those of the control group (p<0.001). There was no appendicitis patient with a normal SAA value, while 21.4% of the patients had CRP values within the normal range. The performance of each test was measured by receiver-operating characteristic curves. Area under the curve (AUC) values were 0.849 for WBC, 0.868 for CRP and 0.964 for SAA. The sensitivity and specificity of these methods were 76% and 75% for WBC>10.0 x 10(9) /L, 62% and 94% for CRP>10 mg/L and 86% and 83% for SAA >45.0 mg/L, respectively. Circulating SAA levels have better discriminatory value than WBC or CRP in the assessment of acute appendicitis in children. Thus, this test appears to be of higher value than the current standards of care in the diagnosis of this condition.
Alterations in lipoprotein density classes in infantile visceral leishmaniasis: presence of apolipoprotein SAA.	This study describes the alterations in the plasma lipoproteins from nine young Tunisian children with active visceral Leishmaniasis. The plasma lipid profile from affected patients was characterized by a marked hypertriglyceridaemia associated with reduced levels of total and high density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol and a significant increase in the plasma ratio of unesterified to total cholesterol. Quantitative determination of plasma apolipoproteins revealed significantly decreased levels of all measured apolipoproteins, especially of apolipoproteins A-I and A-II, with the exception of apolipoprotein E, the levels of which were markedly increased. Moreover, at least two isoforms of the apolipoprotein serum amyloid A (SAA), an acute phase protein, were detected in all patients' plasma using two-dimensional electrophoresis. Immunochemical evidence was presented that apolipoproteins E and SAA, although both primarily associated with apolipoprotein A- (A-I and A-II) as well as with apolipoprotein B-containing lipoproteins, could occur as LP-E and LP-SAA subspecies, devoid of apolipoproteins A and B. However, it should be pointed out that LP-SAA particles were found in HDL2 from only two patients whereas the abnormal LP-E particles were detected in LDL and HDL2 from all investigated patients. The polydispersity and heterogeneity of patients' HDL3 were assessed by electron microscopy. It was further suggested that the profound changes in the lipoprotein metabolism of these young patients may be due to the increased hepatic synthesis of apolipoprotein SAA and/or to their altered immune function during active visceral Leishmaniasis.
Diffuse interstitial lung disease due to AA amyloidosis.	A man developed interstitial lung disease and nephrotic syndrome due to AA amyloidosis. There was no evidence of an underlying disease predisposing to amyloidosis.
Serum amyloid A changes high density lipoprotein's cellular affinity. A clue to serum amyloid A's principal function.	The affinity of high density lipoproteins (HDL), or HDL carrying serum amyloid A (HDL/SAA), for hepatocytes or peritoneal macrophages was examined, as part of an investigation exploring the principal function of SAA and how this may be related to amyloidogenesis. The binding results in conjunction with SAA's existence primarily on HDL during inflammation, and HDL's known "reverse cholesterol transport" function suggest a clear role for SAA in the afferent arm of the reverse cholesterol transport pathway during the process of inflammation. The presence of SAA reduced HDL's affinity for normal hepatocytes by a factor of 2. In contrast, HDL/SAA had a 3- to 4-fold higher affinity for macrophages than HDL alone. Furthermore, the number of binding sites for HDL/SAA increased on macrophages during inflammation, while decreasing on hepatocytes. The net effect was a significant shift in HDL cholesterol carrying capacity towards the macrophage. Competition experiments demonstrated that HDL/SAA is only half as effective as HDL in inhibiting radiolabeled HDL binding to macrophages. This is in keeping with the reduced apolipoprotein A-1 content in HDL/SAA. Strikingly, although HDL contains twice as much apolipoprotein A-1 as HDL/SAA, it is only one-tenth as effective as HDL/SAA in inhibiting radiolabeled HDL/SAA binding to macrophages. The latter results suggest that there is a specific SAA binding site on macrophages.
Doxycycline affects diet- and bacteria-associated atherosclerosis in an ApoE heterozygote murine model: cytokine profiling implications.	It has been postulated that systemic infection with pathogens such as Porphyromonas gingivalis (Pg) elevates the inflammatory response and increases susceptibility to atherosclerosis. We hypothesized that Doxycycline would be beneficial in diet- and/or Pg-induced atherosclerosis given its role in various cell functions and matrix remodeling.
Experimental exposure to wood-smoke particles in healthy humans: effects on markers of inflammation, coagulation, and lipid peroxidation.	Particulate air pollution is known to increase cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Proposed mechanisms underlying this increase include effects on inflammation, coagulation factors, and oxidative stress, which could increase the risk of coronary events and atherosclerosis. The aim of this study was to examine whether short-term exposure to wood smoke affects markers of inflammation, blood hemostasis, and lipid peroxidation in healthy humans. Thirteen subjects were exposed to wood smoke and clean air in a chamber during two 4-h sessions, 1 wk apart. The mass concentrations of fine particles at wood smoke exposure were 240-280 mug/m3, and number concentrations were 95,000-180,000/cm3. About half of the particles were ultrafine (< 100 nm). Blood and urine samples were taken before and after the experiment. Exposure to wood smoke increased the levels of serum amyloid A, a cardiovascular risk factor, as well as factor VIII in plasma and the factor VIII/von Willebrand factor ratio, indicating a slight effect on the balance of coagulation factors. Moreover, there was an increased urinary excretion of free 8-iso-prostaglandin2alpha, a major F2-isoprostane, though this was based on nine subjects only, indicating a temporary increase in free radical-mediated lipid peroxidation. Thus, wood-smoke particles at levels that can be found in smoky indoor environments seem to affect inflammation, coagulation, and possibly lipid peroxidation. These factors may be involved in the mechanisms whereby particulate air pollution affects cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. The exposure setup could be used to establish which particle characteristics are critical for the effects.
The acute-phase proteins serum amyloid A and C reactive protein in transudates and exudates.	The distinction between exudates and transudates is very important in the patient management. Here we evaluate whether the acute-phase protein serum amyloid A (SAA), in comparison with C reactive protein (CRP) and total protein (TP), can be useful in this discrimination. CRP, SAA, and TP were determined in 36 exudate samples (27 pleural and 9 ascitic) and in 12 transudates (9 pleural and 3 ascitic). CRP, SAA, and TP were measured. SAA present in the exudate corresponded to 10% of the amount found in serum, that is, the exudate/serum ratio (E/S) was 0.10 +/- 0.13. For comparison, the exudate/serum ratio for CRP and TP was 0.39 +/- 0.37 and 0.68 +/- 0.15, respectively. There was a strong positive correlation between serum and exudate SAA concentration (r = 0.764; p < 0.0001). The concentration of SAA in transudates was low and did not overlap with that found in exudates (0.02-0.21 versus 0.8-360.5 g/mL). SAA in pleural and ascitic exudates results mainly from leakage of the serum protein via the inflamed membrane. A comparison of the E/S ratio of SAA and CRP points SAA as a very good marker in discriminating between exudates and transudates.
Marked hepatomegaly due to AA type amyloidosis in a case with Castleman's disease.	Hepatic amyloidosis complicated with Castleman's disease is quite rare. A 48-year-old woman was referred to our hospital with general fatigue, low-grade fever, anemia, thrombocythemia, and liver dysfunction. Physical examination revealed anemia and hepatomegaly and abdominal computed tomography showed marked hepatomegaly and right upper abdominal masses. Technetium-99m pyrophosphate (99mTc-PYP) scintigraphy revealed the diffuse abnormal uptake of the enlarged liver, suggesting amyloid deposition. Liver biopsy showed destruction of the liver structure and the massive deposition of AA type amyloid protein. Surgical resection was performed on the abdominal masses. Histological examination of the masses showed Castleman's disease (plasma cell type). After resection, her fever resolved and the liver size gradually decreased to within the normal range. This case shows that surgical resection of the main lesion is effective for hepatomegaly due to AA type amyloidosis associated with Castleman's disease.
An agarose matrix facilitates sectioning of tissue microarray blocks.	Tissue microarray (TMA) is a powerful, high-throughput technique for in situ investigation of biomarkers in many tissue samples in a paraffin block by immunohistochemistry or fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), and has rapidly become the standard in marker studies. One of the difficult steps in the procedure is the sectioning of array blocks and mounting of sections using special slides and/or adhesive-coated tape, which demands specific experience and is time-consuming. We report an arraying method that allows melting of the receiving paraffin block and subsequent sectioning like any ordinary paraffin-embedded tissue block. The major difference from the standard microarray technique is the use of an agarose matrix in the recipient block. The agarose matrix allows melting of the paraffin without disturbing the array, resulting in perfect integration of the tissue cores. The agarose-paraffin TMA blocks limit tissue core loss during cutting, mounting, or immunohistochemical or FISH staining and better maintains the array.
The value of the levels of acute phase reactants for the prediction of familial Mediterranean fever associated amyloidosis: a case control study.	In order to determine the role of levels of acute phase proteins (APPs) for the development of amyloidosis in familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) patients, the levels of serum amyloid A (SAA), C reactive protein (CRP), fibrinogen and erythrocyte sedimentation rate were measured in paired sera of 36 FMF patients during and in between acute attacks, 39 of their healthy parents (obligate heterozgotes), and 15 patients with FMF associated amyloidosis. To compare the levels of APPs, 39 patients with chronic infections or inflammatory diseases who may develop secondary amyloidosis, 20 patients with acute infections who are known to have elevated acute phase response but will never develop amyloidosis and 19 healthy controls were included. The median levels of all APPs are increased in the patients with FMF during attacks and a significant decrease was observed after the attack was over. The level of SAA was above reference range in all FMF patients during the attack free period and the level of at least one other APP was also above normal in 64% of the patients. Both CRP and SAA levels were found to be higher in obligate heterozygotes compared to controls. The levels of SAA in patients with FMF during the attack-free period, obligate heterozygotes and patients with FMF-amyloidosis were found to be similar. The levels in each group were found to be higher than SAA levels found in healthy controls yet lower than the levels measured in the patients with acute infections and patients with chronic inflammation or chronic infections. In conclusion, our results show that SAA level reflects subclinical inflammation with high sensitivity but its value for the prediction of amyloid formation process seems to be low.
Analytical validation of commercially available methods for acute phase proteins quantification in pigs.	The aim of this study was to validate commercially available methods for porcine haptoglobin (Hp), C-reactive protein (CRP), serum amyloid A (SAA) and major acute phase protein (Pig-MAP) determinations. Intra and inter assay coefficients of variation (CVs) were lower than 20% in all cases with exception of inter assay CVs for CRP and Pig-MAP assays with samples of low acute phase proteins concentration, and for SAA assay at any acute phase proteins concentration. All methods showed good linearity and detection limits were low enough to detect APPs levels in healthy animals. Hp and SAA were very affected by haemolysis. Lipaemia influenced mainly on SAA determination. Over 15-fold increase was observed in CRP and SAA concentrations after artificially induced inflammation by a single subcutaneous dose of turpentine, whereas Hp and Pig-MAP increased less than 5-fold.
Feeding live cultures of Enterococcus faecium and Saccharomyces cerevisiae induces an inflammatory response in feedlot steers.	Two experiments were conducted to investigate the effects of oral supplementation of the lactic-acid-producing bacterium Enterococcus faecium EF212 alone or in combination with Saccharomyces cerevisiae (yeast) on mediators of the acute phase response in feedlot steers. Eight fistulated steers were used to study the effects of E. faecium alone or with yeast in a crossover design with 2 Latin squares, 4 steers within each square, and 2 periods. The length of each period was 3 wk, with a 10-d adaptation and an 11-d measurement period. The experimental diet contained 87% steam-rolled barley, 8% whole-crop barley silage, and 5% supplement (DM basis). In Exp. 1, treatments were control vs. the lactic-acid-producing bacterium E. faecium (6 x 10(10) cfu/d). In Exp. 2, treatments were control vs. E. faecium (6 x 10(10) cfu/d) and S. cerevisiae (6 x 10(10) cfu/d). The bacteria and yeast supplements were blended with calcium carbonate to supply 6 x 10(10) cfu/d when top-dressed into the diet once daily at the time of feeding (10 g/d). Steers fed the control diet received only carrier (10 g/d). Blood samples were collected from the jugular vein on d 17 and 21 of each period, and serum amyloid A (SAA), lipopolysaccharide binding protein (LBP), haptoglobin, and alpha1-acid glycoprotein (alpha1-AGP) were measured. Supplementation of feed with E. faecium had no effect on concentrations of SAA, LBP, haptoglobin, or alpha1-AGP in plasma compared with those of controls. However, feeding E. faecium and yeast increased (P = 0.02) plasma concentrations of SAA, LBP, and haptoglobin but had no effect on plasma alpha1-AGP. In conclusion, oral supplementation of E. faecium alone had no effect on the mediators of the acute phase response that were measured, whereas feeding of E. faecium and yeast induced an inflammatory response in feedlot steers fed high-grain diets. Further research is warranted to determine the mechanism(s) by which E. faecium and yeast stimulated production of acute phase proteins in feedlot steers.
Serum amyloid A: an early and accurate marker of neonatal early-onset sepsis.	To evaluate the accuracy of serum amyloid A (SAA), an acute phase protein in the detection of neonatal early-onset sepsis, by means of a fast automated SAA kit.
HDL cholesterol transport during inflammation.	The aim of this article is to review recent advances made towards understanding how inflammation and acute phase proteins, particularly serum amyloid A and group IIa secretory phospholipase A2, may alter reverse cholesterol transport by HDL during inflammation and the acute phase response.
Dietary patterns and markers of systemic inflammation among Iranian women.	Few studies have examined the contribution of major dietary patterns to markers of systemic inflammation. This study was conducted to evaluate the association of major dietary patterns with markers of systemic inflammation among Iranian women. In a cross-sectional study of 486 healthy women aged 40-60 y, we assessed usual dietary intakes by means of an FFQ. Dietary patterns were identified by factor analysis. Anthropometric measurements were made and blood samples from fasting were taken for measuring inflammatory markers. The healthy pattern (high in fruits, vegetables, tomato, poultry, legumes, tea, fruit juices, and whole grains) was inversely related to plasma concentrations of C-reactive protein (CRP) (beta = -0.09, P < 0.001), E-selectin (beta = -0.07, P < 0.05), and soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (sVCAM-1) (beta = -0.08, P < 0.001) after control for potential confounders; with further adjustment for BMI and waist circumference (WC), the associations remained significant for CRP (beta = -0.05, P < 0.05) and sVCAM-1 (beta = -0.04, P < 0.05). In contrast, the western pattern score (high in refined grains, red meat, butter, processed meat, high-fat dairy, sweets and desserts, pizza, potato, eggs, hydrogenated fats, and soft drinks) was positively related to CRP (beta = 0.08, P < 0.001), serum amyloid A (SAA) (beta = 0.11, P < 0.05), IL-6 (beta = 0.09, P < 0.001), soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (beta = 0.05, P < 0.05), and sVCAM-1 concentrations (beta = 0.07, P < 0.05). However, after additional control for BMI and WC, the associations remained significant only for SAA (beta = 0.06, P < 0.05) and IL-6 (beta = 0.07, P < 0.001). The traditional dietary pattern (high in refined grains, potato, tea, whole grains, hydrogenated fats, legumes, and casserole) was positively associated with the plasma IL-6 concentration (beta = 0.04, P < 0.05) when we controlled for confounders including BMI and WC. The findings suggest an independent association between major dietary patterns and plasma concentrations of markers of inflammation.
The relationship between acute phase serum amyloid A (SAA) protein concentrations and left ventricular systolic function in acute myocardial infarction patients treated with primary coronary angioplasty.	Our study was planned to investigate the relationship between plasma levels of serum amyloid A protein (SAA) concentrations and the subsequent left ventricular systolic function in patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) treated with primary coronary angioplasty.
Cellular events associated with the initial phase of AA amyloidogenesis: insights from a human monocyte model.	Reactive amyloidosis is a systemic protein deposition disease that develops in association with chronic inflammation. The deposits are composed of extracellular, fibrillar masses of amyloid A (AA) protein, an N-terminal fragment of the acute-phase serum protein serum amyloid A (SAA). The pathogenic conversion of SAA into amyloid has been studied in two human cell culture models, peritoneal cells and peripheral blood monocytes. Human monocyte cultures proved more robust than either mouse or human peritoneal cells at initiating amyloid formation in the absence of a preformed nidus such as amyloid-enhancing factor and particularly well suited for examination of individual cells undergoing amyloid formation. Amyloid-producing monocyte cultures were stained with Congo red and Alcian blue for detection of amyloid and glycosaminglycans, respectively; immunocytochemistry was performed to identify SAA/AA, CD68, CD14, lysosomal protein Lamp-1, and early endosomal protein EEA1. SAA interaction with monocytes was also visualized directly via fluorescence confocal microscopy. Amyloid was initially detected only in intracellular vesicles, but with time was seen extracellularly. Morphologic changes in lysosomes were noted during the early phase of amyloid formation, suggesting that exocytosis of fibrils may occur via lysosome-derived vesicles. Cultures engaged in amyloid formation remained metabolically active; no cytotoxic effects were observed. Mimicking in vivo phenomena, amyloid formation was accompanied by increased glycosaminoglycan content and C-terminal processing of SAA. The ability of human monocytes to endocytose and intracellularly transform SAA into amyloid via a mechanism that requires and maintains, rather than compromises, metabolic activity distinguishes them as a useful model for probing earliest events in the disease process.
Autoimmune responses against the apo B-100 LDL receptor-binding site protect against arterial accumulation of lipids in LDL receptor deficient mice.	Oxidation of LDL is associated with generation of autoantibodies against a large number of different aldehyde-modified peptide sequences in apo B-100. Autoantibodies recognizing peptide sequences in the LDL receptor-binding region of apo B-100 could potentially affect both cholesterol metabolism and atherosclerosis. The aim of the present study was to determine physiological effects of induction of immune responses against the apo B-100 LDL receptor-binding site in mice deficient for the LDL receptor.
Serum amyloid a as a useful indicator of disease activity in patients with ankylosing spondylitis.	To investigate whether serum amyloid A (SAA) levels are increased in patients with ankylosing spondylitis (AS) and whether its levels correlate well with AS disease activity.
Mast cells in the pathogenesis of rheumatic diseases and as potential targets for anti-rheumatic therapy.	Increasing evidence suggests that mast cells (MCs), in addition to acute allergic reactions, are involved in the pathogenesis of chronic inflammatory diseases and in particular in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). MCs reside in connective tissues and in synovial tissue of joints. They produce an array of proinflammatory mediators, tissue destructive proteases, and cytokines, most prominently tumor necrosis factor-alpha, which is one of the key cytokines in the pathogenesis of RA. MCs may also participate in the development of secondary or amyloid A amyloidosis, as the partial degradation of the serum amyloid A (SAA) protein by MCs leads to the generation of a highly amyloidogenic N-terminal fragment of SAA. MCs may contribute to the pathogenesis of connective tissue diseases, scleroderma, vasculitic syndromes, and systemic lupus erythematosus, although the data available are limited. Inhibition of the most important growth factor receptor of human MCs, c-Kit, by the selective tyrosine kinase inhibitor imatinib mesylate, induces apoptosis of synovial tissue MCs. As MCs are long-lived cells, induction of their apoptosis could be a feasible approach to inhibit their functions. Preliminary findings suggest that a drug that inhibits c-Kit could have anti-rheumatic activity in the treatment of patients with RA and spondyloarthropathies.
Treatment with an Interleukin 1 beta antibody improves glycemic control in diet-induced obesity.	The proinflammatory cytokine Interleukin 1 beta (IL-1beta) is elevated in obese individuals and rodents and it is implicated in impaired insulin secretion, decreased cell proliferation and apoptosis of pancreatic beta cells. In this study we describe the therapeutic effects by an IL-1beta antibody to improve glucose control in hyperglycemic mice with diet-induced obesity. After 13 weeks of treatment the IL-1beta antibody treated group showed reduced glycated hemoglobin (( *)P=0.049), reduced serum levels of proinsulin (( *)P=0.015), reduced levels of insulin and smaller islet size (( *)P=1.65E-13) relative to the control antibody treated group. Neutralization of IL-1beta also significantly reduced serum amyloid A (SAA) which is an indicator of inflammation-induced acute phase response (( *)P=0.024). While there was no improvement of obesity, a significant improvement of glycemic control and of beta cell function is achieved by this pharmacological treatment which may slow/prevent disease progression in Type 2 Diabetes.
MALDI-TOF/TOF-MS reveals elevated serum haptoglobin and amyloid A in Behcet's disease.	Behcet's disease (BD) is a multisystemic autoimmune disease with unclear etiology and pathogenesis. To screen aberrant serum proteins in BD, serum samples were obtained from eight male BD patients with active uveitis and eight male healthy volunteers with informed consent. The serum samples from active BD patients and normal controls were pooled. Highly abundant serum proteins (albumin and IgG) were depleted from these two samples using an affinity capture based kit. The obtained samples were subjected to two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE). Protein spots were visualized with the "blue silver" staining. Differently expressed proteins were subsequently identified by matrix-assisted laser desorption /ionization tandem time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF/TOF-MS). Western blot and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) were performed using the serum samples from 18 patients with active BD, 6 patients with inactive BD, 22 patients with Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada (VKH) syndrome, and 20 healthy volunteers to validate the results of 2-DE and MS. Proteomic profiles of the pooled samples were compared, and approximately 800 protein spots were observed in each of the gels. Expression levels of four of the protein spots in active BD were significantly higher than those in the normal controls. Mass spectrometric protein identification revealed that the four protein spots corresponded to two proteins: haptoglobin (Hp) and serum amyloid A (SAA). Western blot and ELISA showed that Hp was only overexpressed in active BD but not in inactive BD, VKH syndrome, or healthy controls. An obvious band of SAA was detected in 72.2% of the serum samples from BD patients, whereas a vague band of this protein was found in 10.0% of the tested normal samples and 9.1% of VKH samples. Our results revealed a significantly increased expression of Hp and SAA in serum of active BD patients. These two proteins may be involved in the development of BD.
Home use of vegetable oils, markers of systemic inflammation, and endothelial dysfunction among women.	Most knowledge about adverse health effects of trans fats was mainly derived from studies done in Western populations of European or American origins; few data are available in the understudied region of the Middle East.
Review. Reflections on amyloidosis in Papua New Guinea.	The amyloidoses comprise a heterogeneous group of diseases in which 1 out of more than 25 human proteins aggregates into characteristic beta-sheet fibrils with some unique properties. Aggregation is nucleation dependent. Among the known amyloid-forming constituents is the prion protein, well known for its ability to transmit misfolding and disease from one individual to another. There is increasing evidence that other amyloid forms also may be transmissible but only if certain prerequisites are fulfilled. One of these forms is systemic AA-amyloidosis in which an acute-phase reactant, serum AA, is over-expressed and, possibly after cleavage, aggregates into amyloid fibrils, causing disease. In a mouse model, this disorder can easily be transmitted from one animal to another both by intravenous and oral routes. Also, synthetic amyloid-like fibrils made from defined small peptides have this property, indicating a prion-like transmission mechanism. Even some fibrils occurring in the environment can transmit AA-amyloidosis in the murine model. AA-amyloidosis is particularly common in certain areas of Papua New Guinea, probably due to the endemicity of malaria and perhaps genetic predisposition. Now, when kuru is disappearing, more interest should be focused on the potentially lethal systemic AA-amyloidosis.
Pattern recognition scavenger receptors, SR-A and CD36, have an additive role in the development of colitis in mice.	The multifunctional pattern recognition scavenger receptors, SR-A and CD36, are predominantly expressed by lamina propria macrophages and considered important in innate immunity. We examined the role of these receptors in the pathophysiology of inflammatory bowel disease. Colitis was induced in wild type (WT), SRA(-/-), CD36(-/-), and SR-A/CD36 double deficient mice by administering DSS. DSS-induced moderately severe colitis in WT mice was manifested by weight loss, reduced hematocrit, and pathology. SR-A/CD36 double deficient mice developed significantly more severe colitis as indicated by anemia (P<0.01), decreased colonic length due to inflammation (P<0.01), and lesions when compared with WT and single deficient animals. Serum amyloid A was significantly more elevated in SR-A/CD36(-/-) mice (P<0.01) compared with WT and single deficient animals. However, the spleens of WT mice (P<0.05) were significantly enlarged. Inflammatory cytokine levels were considerably increased in WT mice (IL-6 P<0.001, TNFα P<0.01). In contrast, SR-A deficient mice maintained more normal body and splenic weight and developed less severe colonic lesions compared to other groups. In conclusion, our data indicate that SR-A/CD36 double deficiency leads to more severe colonic lesions and dysregulated inflammatory response as compared with single SR-A or CD36 deficiency in colitis, suggesting additive effects between these two receptors in this model.
Tumor necrosis factor receptor 1-associated periodic syndrome without fever: cytokine profile before and during etanercept treatment.	The objectives of this study are autoinflammatory syndromes which are usually characterized by repeated attacks of fever, especially in children. The presentation of these diseases, however, varies between entities and between patients of a particular syndrome. We report a 16-year-old female patient, who suffered from periodic erythema and myositis/fasciitis. She experienced at least nine attacks of dermatitis and myositis, while no fever episodes were noted over a 3-year period. A delay of puberty with amenorrhea and a short stature were also present. Laboratory investigations consistently showed markedly increased inflammatory parameters (especially a high serum amyloid A) and dysproteinemia. Because the patient′s mother complained about chronic and periodic abdominal pain with also persistently elevated inflammatory parameters, the differential diagnosis included hereditary disorders resulting in chronic inflammation. The diagnosis of an inherited tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR) 1-associated periodic syndrome (TRAPS) was confirmed by genetic analyses. Long-term anti-inflammatory treatment with etanercept resulted in a significant clinical improvement and reduction of the inflammatory parameters ESR, CRP, interleukin-6, TNF-α, and soluble TNF-α receptor 1, but not of interleukin-12. Monitoring of the cytokine profile suggested partial effectiveness of etanercept in the treatment of TRAPS. Hereditary fever syndromes have to be considered in case of chronic unexplained inflammation even if fever is no presenting symptom.
Comparative study of C reactive protein and serum amyloid A protein in experimental inflammation.	The responses of C reactive protein, measured by radial immunodiffusion and radioimmunoassay, and serum amyloid A protein, measured by radial immunodiffusion, were compared in eight subjects with inflammation induced experimentally by intradermal injection of monosodium urate crystals. A significant increase in serum amyloid A was noted after a lag phase of eight hours, the increase in median concentration at 48 hours being about eightfold. A parallel but less marked increase was found in C reactive protein when measured by radioimmunoassay (fourfold increase in median concentration at 48 hours) after a small but significant decrease during the lag phase. The changes in C reactive protein remained within the reference range and were not detectable by radial immunodiffusion.
Primary localized amyloidosis of the lacrimal glands.	Primary localized amyloidosis causing bilateral lacrimal enlargement is rare. The pathogenesis of amyloid deposition within the orbit and other body tissues has not been fully elucidated. The authors report the case of a 72-year-old woman who presented with bilateral lacrimal gland enlargement secondary to amyloid infiltration. The chemical nature of the deposit was characterized using light microscopy, immunohistochemistry, and immunoelectron microscopy. The primary (immunocytic) nature of the amyloid was confirmed by immunohistochemistry demonstrating the presence of monoclonal lambda light chains in the amyloid deposits and in the plasma cells. Using immunoelectron microscopy, amyloid deposits were seen containing lambda light chains in macrophages. It has been postulated that the macrophage has a role in amyloid deposition. The authors believe this to be the first published report of immunoelectron microscopy use in orbital amyloidosis, and that this technique has helped further their understanding of the nature and pathogenesis of this condition.
Co-deposition of basement membrane components during the induction of murine splenic AA amyloid.	Past studies have demonstrated that during murine AA amyloid induction there is co-deposition of the AA amyloid peptide and the basement membrane form of heparan sulfate proteoglycan. The synthesis and accumulation of heparan sulfate proteoglycan does not usually occur in the absence of other basement membrane components, such as type IV collagen, laminin, and fibronectin. Using immunohistochemical techniques, the present experiments have demonstrated that in addition to the heparan sulfate proteoglycan, there are other basement membrane components present in splenic AA amyloid deposits and these are present as soon as AA amyloid deposits are detectable. The results indicate that within the time constraints imposed by the experiments, the basement membrane components, fibronectin, laminin, type IV collagen, and heparan sulfate proteoglycan are co-deposited 36 to 48 hours after the AgNO3 and amyloid enhancing factor induction of amyloid, the period when amyloid is first detected. These observations raise the possibility that an abnormality in basement membrane metabolism is a very early event, and potentially plays an integral part in the process of AA amyloidogenesis.
Chronic inflammation in FMF: markers, risk factors, outcomes and therapy.	Familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) is the most common of the hereditary periodic fever syndromes. Although the typical clinical course of FMF is characterized by bouts of painful inflammation, this presentation represents only the tip of the iceberg. In many patients inflammation can persist in attack-free periods, as shown by high levels of acute-phase proteins, cytokines and inflammation-induced proteins. This subclinical inflammation puts patients at risk of developing complications such as anemia, splenomegaly, decreased bone mineral density, heart disease and life-threatening amyloid A amyloidosis, among others. In this article, we review the published data on markers and other factors involved in the persistence of inflammation in patients with FMF during attack-free periods, examine the risk factors for the development of this subclinical inflammation, summarize the complications of chronic inflammation in FMF and propose a new strategy for treatment, based on these data.
Abdominal fat mass is associated with adaptive immune activation: the CODAM Study.	Abdominal fat-related activation of the innate immune system and insulin resistance (IR) are implicated in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular diseases. Recent data support an important role of the adaptive immune system as well. In this study, we investigate the association between waist circumference and markers of systemic adaptive immune activation, and the potential mediating role of innate immune activation and/or IR herein. The study population consisted of 477 (304 men) individuals (mean age: 59.4 ± 7.0 years) in whom waist circumference, HOMA2-IR (IR derived from homeostasis model assessment), and markers of innate (C-reactive protein (CRP), interleukin (IL)-6, serum amyloid A (SAA)) and adaptive (neopterin, soluble CD25 (sCD25)) immune activation were measured. These markers were compiled into an adaptive and innate immune activation score by averaging the respective z-scores. After adjustments for age, sex, glucose metabolism, smoking status, prior cardiovascular disease, and other risk factors, waist circumference was associated with the adaptive (standardized regression coefficient β = 0.12 (95% confidence intervals: 0.04-0.20)) and the innate immune activation scores (β = 0.24 (0.17-0.31)), and with HOMA2-IR (β = 0.49 (0.42-0.56)). The innate immune activation score and HOMA2-IR were also positively associated with the adaptive immune activation score (β = 0.31 (0.21-0.40) and β = 0.11 (0.02-0.21), respectively). The association between waist circumference and the adaptive immune activation score was completely abolished when further adjusted for innate immune activation and HOMA2-IR (to β = -0.01 (-0.10-0.08)), and the specific mediation "effects" attributable to each of these variables were 58% and 42%, respectively. We conclude that abdominal obesity is associated with systemic adaptive immune activation and that innate immune activation and IR constitute independent and equally important pathways explaining this association.
Inflammatory stress exacerbates ectopic lipid deposition in C57BL/6J mice.	Chronic systemic inflammation and abnormal free fatty acid metabolism are closely related to ectopic lipid deposition. In this study, we investigate if inflammation tissue-specifically disrupts lipogenesis and lipolysis in nonadipose tissues and adipose tissue, resulting in ectopic lipid deposition in C57BL/6J mice.
Serum amyloid-A levels in neonatal necrotizing enterocolitis.	We aimed to evaluate serum levels of serum amyloid-A (SAA) both in the diagnosis and monitoring the treatment response of necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC). Forty-five preterm neonates were enrolled in the study, including 15 infants with NEC, 15 with sepsis, and 15 healthy preterm infants. Pre- and posttreatment serum SAA levels were measured. Among patients with NEC, 11 had stage 1 and 4 had stage 2 disease according to the modified Bell's staging criteria. Baseline SAA levels of the infants with NEC were significantly higher than controls (P=0.013) and were significantly lower than those with sepsis (P=0.004). When infants with stage 1 and stage 2 NEC were analyzed separately, baseline SAA levels of the infants with stage 2 NEC were significantly higher than controls (P=0.027) than those with stage 1 NEC (P=0.018), but similar to those with sepsis. There was a trend that baseline SAA levels were also correlated with the Bell stage (r=0.501, P=0.057). Posttreatment SAA levels significantly decreased in infants with sepsis (P=0.002). Pre- and posttreatment SAA levels were similar in patients with stage 1 and 2 NEC. In conclusion, SAA rises in early stages of NEC and may aid in diagnosis as a serum marker.
Analysis of acute-phase proteins, AHSG, C3, CLI, HP and SAA, reveals distinctive expression patterns associated with breast, colorectal and lung cancer.	Early detection, clinical management and disease recurrence monitoring are critical areas in cancer treatment in which specific biomarker panels are likely to be very important in each of these key areas. We have previously demonstrated that levels of alpha-2-heremans-schmid-glycoprotein (AHSG), complement component C3 (C3), clusterin (CLI), haptoglobin (HP) and serum amyloid A (SAA) are significantly altered in serum from patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the lung. Here, we report the abundance levels for these proteins in serum samples from patients with advanced breast cancer, colorectal cancer (CRC) and lung cancer compared to healthy controls (age and gender matched) using commercially available enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kits. Logistic regression (LR) models were fitted to the resulting data, and the classification ability of the proteins was evaluated using receiver-operating characteristic curve and leave-one-out cross-validation (LOOCV). The most accurate individual candidate biomarkers were C3 for breast cancer [area under the curve (AUC) = 0.89, LOOCV = 73%], CLI for CRC (AUC = 0.98, LOOCV = 90%), HP for small cell lung carcinoma (AUC = 0.97, LOOCV = 88%), C3 for lung adenocarcinoma (AUC = 0.94, LOOCV = 89%) and HP for squamous cell carcinoma of the lung (AUC = 0.94, LOOCV = 87%). The best dual combination of biomarkers using LR analysis were found to be AHSG + C3 (AUC = 0.91, LOOCV = 83%) for breast cancer, CLI + HP (AUC = 0.98, LOOCV = 92%) for CRC, C3 + SAA (AUC = 0.97, LOOCV = 91%) for small cell lung carcinoma and HP + SAA for both adenocarcinoma (AUC = 0.98, LOOCV = 96%) and squamous cell carcinoma of the lung (AUC = 0.98, LOOCV = 84%). The high AUC values reported here indicated that these candidate biomarkers have the potential to discriminate accurately between control and cancer groups both individually and in combination with other proteins.
Differential diagnosis of localized and systemic amyloidosis based on coagulation and fibrinolysis parameters.	A simple assay that can discriminate between localized and systemic amyloidosis is needed.
Airway epithelial regulation of allergic sensitization in asthma.	While many of the contributing cell types and mediators of allergic asthma are known, less well understood are the factors that influence the development of allergic responses that lead to the development of allergic asthma. As the first airway cell type to respond to inhaled factors, the epithelium orchestrates downstream interactions between dendritic cells (DCs) and CD4⁺ T cells that quantitatively and qualitatively dictate the degree and type of the allergic asthma phenotype, making the epithelium of critical importance for the genesis of allergies that later manifest in allergic asthma. Amongst the molecular processes of critical importance in airway epithelium is the transcription factor, nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-κB). This review will focus primarily on the genesis of pulmonary allergies and the participation of airway epithelial NF-κB activation therein, using examples from our own work on nitrogen dioxide (NO₂) exposure and genetic modulation of airway epithelial NF-κB activation. In addition, the mechanisms through which Serum Amyloid A (SAA), an NF-κB-regulated, epithelial-derived mediator, influences allergic sensitization and asthma severity will be presented. Knowledge of the molecular and cellular processes regulating allergic sensitization in the airways has the potential to provide powerful insight into the pathogenesis of allergy, as well as targets for the prevention and treatment of asthma.
Investigation of serum amino acid and serum amyloid A concentrations in chickens with amyloid arthropathy.	Increased proteolytic cleavage of serum amyloid A (SAA) may potentially contribute to the development of AA amyloid deposition.
Effects of a single dose of enrofloxacin on body temperature and tracheobronchial neutrophil count in healthy Thoroughbreds premedicated with interferon-α and undergoing long-distance transportation.	To evaluate effects of a single dose of enrofloxacin (5 mg/kg, IV) on body temperature and tracheobronchial neutrophil count in healthy Thoroughbreds premedicated with interferon-α and undergoing long-distance transportation.
A serum amyloid A-positive hepatocellular neoplasm arising in alcoholic cirrhosis: a previously unrecognized type of inflammatory hepatocellular tumor.	Hepatocellular adenoma usually arises in the absence of significant fibrosis. Herein, we report seven patients with serum amyloid A-positive hepatocellular neoplasm, which shares features with inflammatory hepatocellular adenoma arising in alcoholic cirrhosis. Seven patients (two women and five men, age range 41-67 years) with hypervascular hepatocellular nodules associated with alcoholic cirrhosis were retrieved from our pathological files (1997-2011). The hepatocellular nodules were multiple (>3) in all patients and 17 nodules were histologically examined. We surveyed the immunoreactivity for serum amyloid A, glutamine synthetase, and glypican-3 in the hepatocellular nodules and control lesions, including 5 focal nodular hyperplasia, 18 dysplastic nodules, and 54 hepatocellular carcinomas in various background diseases. In all, 15 of 17 nodules showed strong and distinct immunoreactivity for serum amyloid A, sharing features with inflammatory hepatocellular adenoma. The serum amyloid A-positive hepatocellular neoplasms showed increased cellular density, inflammatory infiltrate, sinusoidal dilatation, and ductular reaction to various degrees. Although about a half of dysplastic nodules and hepatocellular carcinomas showed focal immunoreactivity for serum amyloid A, the extent of serum amyloid A expression was significantly higher in serum amyloid A-positive hepatocellular neoplasms, than in control nodules. The serum amyloid A-positive hepatocellular neoplasms did not show the overexpression of glutamine synthetase or immunoreactivity for glypican-3. In contrast, most hepatocellular carcinomas showed the overexpression of glutamine synthetase and immunoreactivity for glypican-3, irrespective of background diseases. In conclusion, this study highlights a characteristic group of hepatocellular neoplasms arising in alcoholic cirrhosis, which share features with inflammatory hepatocellular adenomas. These serum amyloid A-positive hepatocellular neoplasms may be a new type of inflammatory hepatocellular tumors in alcoholic patients.
Hepatic amyloidosis: morphologic spectrum of histopathological changes in AA and nonAA amyloidosis.	In hepatic amyloidosis (HA), the relationships between the pattern and extent of amyloid deposition, morphologic changes, associated diseases and clinical data have not yet been demonstrated. In this study, we sought the correlation between the above mentioned parameters in HA. Liver biopsies of 34 HA were retrospectively analyzed for the type, distribution, and intensity of amyloid deposition and associated morphologic changes. AA and nonAA types were classified on the basis of immunohistochemistry. Follow-up clinical and laboratory findings were reviewed. Twenty-three out of 34 patients (67.6%) had AA, and 11 out of 34 patients (32.4%) had nonAA amyloidosis. The predominant localization pattern in AA amyloidosis was vascular (91.3%), and in nonAA amyloidosis it was mixed with other patterns (72.7%). We confirmed that nonAA amyloid involves the hepatic artery, as well as the portal and central vein, but deposition occurred more frequently in the sinusoidal areas. We detected a portal stromal pattern only in cases of nonAA amyloidosis with a mixed pattern of amyloid deposition. The pattern of amyloid deposition in liver differs between the AA and nonAA type amyloidosis. The distribution of amyloid within the liver is not a reliable method for distinguishing AA from nonAA amyloidosis. However, the histological pattern provides strong clues as to the etiology of the amyloid deposits, and could provide information on the clinical status and prognosis of these patients.
The amyloidoses: clinical features, diagnosis and treatment.	Amyloidosis is a rare disorder in which insoluble amyloid proteins are deposited in body organs, causing abnormal protein build-up in tissues and eventually leading to organ dysfunction and death. It affects less than 200,000 people in the United States, classifying it as a rare disease according to the National Institutes of Health. Definitive determination of the underlying protein is critical since prognosis and treatment of amyloidosis can vary widely depending on the responsible protein. The following paper describes the various types and clinical features of amyloidosis and provides an overview of current diagnostic tools and therapies.
Serum amyloid A concentration in healthy periparturient mares and mares with ascending placentitis.	Placentitis is a prevalent cause of abortion, premature delivery and neonatal death in mares. Early diagnosis is paramount for the survival of the fetus and delivery of a live foal.
Aging affects high-density lipoprotein composition and function.	Most coronary deaths occur in patients older than 65years. Age associated alterations in the composition and function of high-density lipoproteins (HDL) may contribute to cardiovascular mortality. The effect of advanced age on the composition and function of HDL is not well understood. HDL was isolated from healthy young and elderly subjects. HDL composition, cellular cholesterol efflux/uptake, anti-oxidant properties and paraoxonase activity were assessed. We observed a 3-fold increase of the acute phase protein serum amyloid A, an increased content of complement C3 and proteins involved in endopeptidase/protease inhibition in HDL of elderly subjects, whereas levels of apolipoprotein E were significantly decreased. HDL from elderly subjects contained less cholesterol but increased sphingomyelin. Most importantly, HDL from elderly subjects showed defective antioxidant properties, lower paraoxonase 1 activity and was more rapidly taken up by macrophages, whereas cholesterol efflux capability was not altered. These findings suggest that aging alters HDL composition, resulting in functional impairment that may contribute to the onset/progression of cardiovascular disease. 
Oral administration of LPS and lipoteichoic acid prepartum modulated reactants of innate and humoral immunity in periparturient dairy cows.	The study evaluated the effects of repeated oral exposure to LPS and lipoteichoic acid (LTA) on immune responses of dairy cows. Thirty pregnant Holstein cows were randomly assigned to two treatment groups. Cows received orally either 2 ml of 0.85% sterile saline solution (control group), or 2 ml of sterile saline solution containing three doses of LPS from Escherichia coli 0111 : B4 along with a flat dose of LTA from Bacillus subtilis. Blood and saliva samples were collected and analyzed for serum amyloid A (SAA); LPS-binding protein (LBP); anti-LPS plasma IgA, IgG and IgM; TNF-α; and IL-1. Results showed greater concentrations of IgA in the saliva of treated cows compared with the controls (P < 0.01). Treated cows had lower plasma concentrations of anti-LPS IgA, IgG and IgM Abs, and TNF-α than the controls (P < 0.05). There was a tendency for the concentrations of plasma LBP (P = 0.06) and haptoglobin (P = 0.10) to be lesser in the treatment group, although no differences were found in the concentration of plasma SAA and IL-1 (P > 0.10). Overall, the results of this study indicate that repeated oral administration with LPS and LTA stimulates innate and humoral immune responses in periparturient dairy cows. 
Effects of chocolate supplementation on metabolic and cardiovascular parameters in ApoE3L mice fed a high-cholesterol atherogenic diet.	Dietary intake of cocoa and/or chocolate has been suggested to exhibit protective cardiovascular effects although this is still controversial. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of chocolate supplementation on metabolic and cardiovascular parameters.
Serum amyloid A is independently related to apolipoprotein A-I but not to HDL-cholesterol in patients with angina pectoris.	Inflammation processes are considered important links between classical lipid risk factors and the progression of atherosclerosis. The interrelationship of high density lipoproteins (HDL) and apolipoprotein apoA-1 with acute phase proteins and cytokines was examined in a clinical setting of patients with angina pectoris.
Ligand-specific conformational change of the G-protein-coupled receptor ALX/FPR2 determines proresolving functional responses.	Formyl-peptide receptor type 2 (FPR2), also called ALX (the lipoxin A4 receptor), conveys the proresolving properties of lipoxin A4 and annexin A1 (AnxA1) and the proinflammatory signals elicited by serum amyloid protein A and cathelicidins, among others. We tested here the hypothesis that ALX might exist as homo- or heterodimer with FPR1 or FPR3 (the two other family members) and operate in a ligand-biased fashion. Coimmunoprecipitation and bioluminescence resonance energy transfer assays with transfected HEK293 cells revealed constitutive dimerization of the receptors; significantly, AnxA1, but not serum amyloid protein A, could activate ALX homodimers. A p38/MAPK-activated protein kinase/heat shock protein 27 signaling signature was unveiled after AnxA1 application, leading to generation of IL-10, as measured in vitro (in primary monocytes) and in vivo (after i.p. injection in the mouse). The latter response was absent in mice lacking the ALX ortholog. Using a similar approach, ALX/FPR1 heterodimerization evoked using the panagonist peptide Ac2-26, identified a JNK-mediated proapoptotic path that was confirmed in primary neutrophils. These findings provide a molecular mechanism that accounts for the dual nature of ALX and indicate that agonist binding and dimerization state contribute to the conformational landscape of FPRs. 
Abnormal lipoprotein metabolism in diabetic nephropathy.	It is well known that patients with diabetes have a high incidence of cardiovascular disease (CVD), and the incidence of CVD becomes substantially elevated with development of diabetic nephropathy. The mechanisms for dyslipidemia in diabetic nephropathy are multifactorial and complex. Long-term hyperglycemia causes generalized vascular endothelial damage, which reduces functional lipoprotein lipase, leading to increased triglyceride (TG) levels and decreased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C). In overt-diabetic nephropathy, hypoproteinemia markedly increases low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), and renal failure specifically increases remnant lipoproteins and decreases HDL-C and LDL-C. Overt diabetic nephropathy exhibits remarkable postprandial hypertriglyceridemia with hyper-apolipoprotein (apo) B48, a marker of chylomicron and its remnants. Apo CIII is a key inhibitor of lipolysis and particle uptake of TG-rich lipoproteins, which is specifically increased in advanced chronic kidney disease, irrespective of the presence of diabetes. LDL size becomes smaller with advanced stages of diabetic nephropathy, whereas LDL size is not reduced in hemodialysis patients (HD). HD patients have marked lower levels of HDL3-C than controls. HD patients also have substantially low apo AI and high serum amyloid A (SAA) levels, suggesting the replacement of apo AI by SAA is stimulated in HDL particles. 
Application value of procalcitonin and immune inflammatory factors for prediction of bacteraemia in patients with hematologic malignancy combined with febrile neutropenia]	This study was purposed to evaluate the diagnostic value of procalcitonin (PCT), C-reactive protein, interleukin-6 (IL-6), serum amyloid A (SAA) for bacteremia in patients with hematologic malignancy combined with febrile neutropenia. The total of 297 patients with hematologic malignancy combined with febrile neutropenia were analyzed retrospectively from 1253 patients admitted to West China hospital of Sichuan University from March 2011 to October 2012. They were divided into sepsis group (n = 95) and non-sepsis group (n = 202) according to blood culture. The results showed that the levels of PCT, CRP, IL-6 and SAA in sepsis group were higher than those in non-sepsis group, and there was statistically significant difference between these two groups (P < 0.05). The PCT had an AUC value of 0.974 (P < 0.05), and obviously higher than that of CRP (AUC = 0.681, P < 0.05), IL-6 (AUC = 0.661, P < 0.05) and SAA (AUC = 0.605, P < 0.05). When PCT had cut-off value of 1.06 ng/ml, sensitivity of 95.8%, specificity of 92.1%, and the Youden indicator of 0.879, the negative and positive predictive values were 97.8% and 85.0% respectively, the negative and positive likelihood ratios were 0.05 and 12.5 respectively, and all significantly higher than that of CRP, IL-6 and SAA. It is concluded that for patients with hematologic malignancy combined with febrile neutropenia and bacterial infection, the diagnostic value of serum PCT is superior to that of immune inflammatory factors (CRP, IL-6 and SAA), the PCT can predict the bacterium infection, provide laboratory evidence for rational antimicrobial drug usage and mortality reduction.
Biomarkers of one-carbon metabolism are associated with biomarkers of inflammation in women.	Folate-mediated one-carbon metabolism is essential for DNA synthesis, repair, and methylation. Perturbations in one-carbon metabolism have been implicated in increased risk of some cancers and may also affect inflammatory processes. We investigated these interrelated pathways to understand their relation. The objective was to explore associations between inflammation and biomarkers of nutritional status and one-carbon metabolism. In a cross-sectional study in 1976 women selected from the Women's Health Initiative Observational Study, plasma vitamin B-6 [pyridoxal-5'-phosphate (PLP)], plasma vitamin B-12, plasma folate, and RBC folate were measured as nutritional biomarkers; serum C-reactive protein (CRP) and serum amyloid A (SAA) were measured as biomarkers of inflammation; and homocysteine and cysteine were measured as integrated biomarkers of one-carbon metabolism. Student's t, chi-square, and Spearman rank correlations, along with multiple linear regressions, were used to explore relations between biomarkers; additionally, we tested stratification by folic acid fortification period and multivitamin use. With the use of univariate analysis, plasma PLP was the only nutritional biomarker that was modestly significantly correlated with serum CRP and SAA (ρ = -0.22 and -0.12, respectively; P < 0.0001). Homocysteine (μmol/L) showed significant inverse correlations with all nutritional biomarkers (ranging from ρ = -0.30 to ρ = -0.46; all P < 0.0001). With the use of multiple linear regression, plasma PLP, RBC folate, homocysteine, and cysteine were identified as independent predictors of CRP; and PLP, vitamin B-12, RBC folate, and homocysteine were identified as predictors of SAA. When stratified by folic acid fortification period, nutrition-homocysteine correlations were generally weaker in the postfortification period, whereas associations between plasma PLP and serum CRP increased. Biomarkers of inflammation are associated with PLP, RBC folate, and homocysteine in women. The connection between the pathways needs to be further investigated and causality established. The trial is registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT00000611. 
Inflammation-induced acute phase response in skeletal muscle and critical illness myopathy.	Systemic inflammation is a major risk factor for critical-illness myopathy (CIM) but its pathogenic role in muscle is uncertain. We observed that interleukin 6 (IL-6) and serum amyloid A1 (SAA1) expression was upregulated in muscle of critically ill patients. To test the relevance of these responses we assessed inflammation and acute-phase response at early and late time points in muscle of patients at risk for CIM.
Serum inflammatory mediators as markers of human Lyme disease activity.	Chemokines and cytokines are key signaling molecules that orchestrate the trafficking of immune cells, direct them to sites of tissue injury and inflammation and modulate their states of activation and effector cell function. We have measured, using a multiplex-based approach, the levels of 58 immune mediators and 7 acute phase markers in sera derived from of a cohort of patients diagnosed with acute Lyme disease and matched controls. This analysis identified a cytokine signature associated with the early stages of infection and allowed us to identify two subsets (mediator-high and mediator-low) of acute Lyme patients with distinct cytokine signatures that also differed significantly (p<0.0005) in symptom presentation. In particular, the T cell chemokines CXCL9 (MIG), CXCL10 (IP-10) and CCL19 (MIP3B) were coordinately increased in the mediator-high group and levels of these chemokines could be associated with seroconversion status and elevated liver function tests (p = 0.027 and p = 0.021 respectively). There was also upregulation of acute phase proteins including CRP and serum amyloid A. Consistent with the role of CXCL9/CXCL10 in attracting immune cells to the site of infection, CXCR3+ CD4 T cells are reduced in the blood of early acute Lyme disease (p = 0.01) and the decrease correlates with chemokine levels (p = 0.0375). The levels of CXCL9/10 did not relate to the size or number of skin lesions but elevated levels of serum CXCL9/CXCL10 were associated with elevated liver enzymes levels. Collectively these results indicate that the levels of serum chemokines and the levels of expression of their respective chemokine receptors on T cell subsets may prove to be informative biomarkers for Lyme disease and related to specific disease manifestations. 
Skeletal muscle amyloid deposition in AL- (primary or myeloma-associated), AA- (secondary), and prealbumin-type amyloidosis.	Amyloid deposition in the quadriceps femoris muscle was investigated in 12 cases of systemic amyloidosis including 6 of AL-(primary or myeloma-associated) type, 2 of AA- (secondary) type, and 4 of prealbumin- (familial or sporadic) types. Clinically, muscle weakness was found in 7 patients. Among the 7 patients, one of the AL-type suffered from systemic myopathy showing progressive muscular stiffness, pseudohypertrophy, and weakness. The other 6 presented with polyneuropathy. Pathologically, no amyloid was found to be deposited in the AA-type. In all of the AL- and prealbumin-types, amyloid deposition was found in the blood vessels and peri- and endomysium. The degrees of amyloid deposition were marked in one case of the AL-type, which was considered to be suffering from amyloid myopathy, moderate in one of the AL-type, and slight in the rest of the AL-type and all of the prealbumin-type. Our observations and descriptions in the literature indicate that the presence and degrees of amyloid deposition in the skeletal muscles would be related to the types of amyloid proteins in amyloidosis. It seems likely that the affinity of amyloid to the skeletal muscles is variable in AL-type, probably depending on the molecular heterogeneity of AL protein, is low in prealbumin-type, and is almost absent in AA-type.
SAA, an apoprotein of HDL: its structure and function.	The putative precursor of amyloid protein AA appears in serum as an apoprotein (apoSAA) of heavier HDL fractions of lipoproteins found in humans and mice. ApoSAA is found by precipitation with specific anti-AA antibodies to be on a particle that also carries apoA-I and some C-apoproteins. In endotoxin-treated mice a lipoprotein fraction with about 2 moles of apoSAA to 1 mole of apoA-I can be isolated, an apoSAA-carrying subset of HDL being thus suggested. In mice, rapid clearance from plasma of native apoSAA compared to apoA-I suggests a special function for apoSAA. The C-terminal amino acid portion of apoSAA may play a role in this function.
Studies of the structure and binding properties of hamster female protein.	We report here the characterization of hamster female protein (FP), a member of the pentraxin family of plasma proteins, as a molecule composed of glycosylated subunits of 25,655 MW containing a single intrachain disulphide bridge. In the presence of EDTA the subunits are non-covalently associated as pentamers of mass approximately 128,000 MW, and in the presence of calcium they aggregate further, probably to form decamers. This pentamer-decamer transition at physiological ionic strength has not been described in other pentraxins. As previously reported, FP shares the capacity of C-reactive protein (CRP) in other species to bind phosphocholine and we show here that it also resembles human CRP in binding only weakly to agarose, to human AA amyloid fibrils in vitro, and to mouse AA amyloid deposits in vivo. It thus differs markedly from human and mouse serum amyloid P component (SAP) but it is nevertheless deposited in hamster AA amyloid in vivo and clearly is the hamster counterpart of SAP in other species. These results illustrate the subtle diversity among members of the otherwise conserved pentraxin family of vertebrate plasma proteins.
A young woman with rheumatoid arthritis who rapidly developed secondary amyloidosis]	A 22-year-old woman, who had been diagnosed as having rheumatoid arthritis (RA) 2 years before, was admitted to our hospital complaining of watery diarrhea (several times/day). She had been treated with low dose prednisolone (PSL) and auranofin in out-patient clinic. On admission, laboratory data showed moderate proteinuria (0.3 g/day) and positive CRP (2.7 mg/dl). Although the activity of RA was controlled by the administration of low dose methotrexate (7.5 mg/week) in addition to PSL, watery diarrhea and proteinuria did not improve. The biopsy of the stomach, rectum and kidney revealed the deposition of AA type amyloid protein, resulting in the diagnosis of secondary amyloidosis. Secondary amyloidosis has been reported as one of the common complications in RA patients, especially in old patients with a long history of RA. To our knowledge, however, there have been few reported cases who developed secondary amyloidosis so early during the course of RA as our case. We should be careful for the development of secondary amyloidosis even in young RA patients with short history of RA, when the disease is active.
Comparison of serum phospholipase A2, polymorphonuclear granulocyte elastase, C-reactive protein and serum amyloid A with the APACHE II score in the prognosis of multiple injured patients.	This prospective study of 35 multitraumatized intensive care unit patients requiring mechanical ventilation examined the relative utility of four biochemical parameters with a physiological scoring system for predicting lethal outcome. Levels of serum phospholipase A2 (PLA2), serum amyloid A (SAA), polymorphonuclear granulocyte elastase (PMN elastase), and C-reactive protein (CRP) were determined at short intervals during the patient's hospitalization. The first specimen was obtained at the time of admission, and subsequent specimens were drawn at 8 h intervals for the first 48 h and then twice daily until death or convalescence. Calculations of the APACHE II score used the most deranged variables during the first 24 h of admission to assess patient outcome. Additional calculations of the APACHE II score at the time of each blood draw served as an indicator of patient status. The results indicate that during the first 24 h after admission none of the four examined biochemical parameters gives reliable information about the outcome. The APACHE II score provided the earliest indicator of patient outcome (83% sensitivity, 65% specificity). PMN elastase provided useful information first at 32 h (83% sensitivity, 45% specificity) and better at 132 h (86% sensitivity, 86% specificity). CRP was of intermediate use in predicting outcome initially at 72 h (83% sensitivity, 50% specificity) and later at 132 h (86% sensitivity, 93% specificity). PLA2 and SAA were not useful as early indicators of lethal outcome.
Effect of endotoxin in IL-1 beta-deficient mice.	IL-1 plays an important role in the pathophysiologic responses to infection and inflammation, in part by mediating its own production and that of other proinflammatory cytokines. However, the relative contribution of IL-1 alpha and IL-1 beta to the inflammatory response has not been well clarified. Using IL-1 beta-deficient (IL-1 beta -/-) mice, we investigated the specific role of IL-1 beta in the in vivo and in vitro response to LPS. No differences between IL-1 beta +/+ and IL-1 beta -/- mice were observed in circulating levels for IL-1 alpha, IL-6, or TNF-alpha after the systemic administration of either a low (5 micrograms/kg) or high (5 mg/kg) dose of LPS. IL-1 beta -/- mice also had a normal response to LPS in terms of activation of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis, hypoglycemia, serum amyloid A production, and anorexia. IL-1 beta -/- mice were normally sensitive to the lethal effect of LPS and were protected against LPS toxicity when pretreated with low-dose LPS. However, in vitro, peritoneal macrophages from IL-1 beta -/- mice stimulated with LPS produced significantly less IL-1 alpha than macrophages from IL-1 beta +/+ mice (p < 0.05). No differences in IL-6 or TNF-alpha synthesis were observed between macrophages from IL-1 beta +/+ and IL-1 beta -/- mice. In summary, our results suggest that either IL-1 beta is not essential for the in vivo systemic response to LPS or that its role can be fulfilled by other cytokines with overlapping activities.
A unique amyloidogenic apolipoprotein serum amyloid A (apoSAA) isoform expressed by the amyloid resistant CE/J mouse strain exhibits higher affinity for macrophages than apoSAA1 and apoSAA2 expressed by amyloid susceptible CBA/J mice.	CBA/J and other inbred strains of mice that express the amyloidogenic apolipoprotein serum amyloid A (apoSAA) apoSAA2, together with apoSAA1, are susceptible to amyloid A (AA) amyloidosis, whereas CE/J mice that express a single unique isoform, apoSAACEJ, are resistant. Studies indicate that CBA/JxCE/J hybrid mice that express apoSAA2 in the presence of apoSAACEJ are protected from amyloidogenesis. To define a mechanism by which expression of apoSAACEJ may protect from AA formation in the presence of apoSAA2, binding of recombinant apoSAA (r-apoSAA) isoforms, validated by N-terminal sequencing, to a murine macrophage cell line was investigated. Maximal specific binding occurred after incubation of radiolabeled apoSAA with IC-21 macrophages (1x105 cells/ml) for 30 min at 4 degreesC. The binding of 125I-r-apoSAA1, 125I-r-apoSAA2 and 125I-r-apoSAACEJ was specific and saturable, with an affinity (Kd) of about 2.8, 3.2 and 1.3 nM, respectively, and approximately 2-4x106 sites per cell. Competitive binding experiments indicate apoSAACEJ binds with higher affinity to macrophages than does either apoSAA1 or apoSAA2. We suggest that greater cellular affinity of apoSAACEJ compared to apoSAA2 may contribute to protection from AA amyloid in certain CBA/JxCE/J hybrid mice by interfering with interaction of apoSAA2 by macrophages and hence either membrane associated or intracellular degradation.
