Anaphylaxis to sesame paste.	Anaphylaxis reaction to sesame paste could be a possible complication of vegetarian diet. This paper presents a case of a 6-year-old child who developed anaphylactic reaction after eating bread and sesame paste (obtained by grinding sesame seeds). The child suffered atopic dermatitis and had no incidence of anaphylaxis before. Because the sesame, as seeds, oil or paste is mostly used in bakery and in different foods, by non diagnosing this allergy in children with atopic dermatites could be life-threatening.
Sesame food allergy and sensitization in children: the natural history and long-term follow-up.	Sesame food allergy (SFA) in children is an increasingly recognized one in many countries. Our objective was to describe the course and natural history of SFA. Seventy-four patients sensitized to sesame were evaluated using clinical records, questionnaires, skin prick tests (SPT), in vitro specific immunoglobulin (sIg) E, and oral challenges (OC) and categorized into three groups: group A: patients who experienced allergic reaction after ingestion of sesame-containing food (n = 45); group B: patients evaluated for atopic dermatitis and found to be sesame SPT-positive (n = 11); group C: patients with sensitization to sesame allergen (n = 18). Group A patients were followed for an average of 6.7 yr. Analysis of our results revealed that 76% of patients in group A developed the allergy by the age of 2. The median age at onset of allergy in these patients was 1 yr. Immediate reaction to a minimal amount of sesame was characteristic. Skin was the most common site of involvement, followed by respiratory and gastrointestinal systems. Tolerance developed in only 20% of the patients. High sIgE (>0.15 IU) was demonstrated only in 75% of those in which it was examined. Sixteen patients performed oral sesame food challenge which was found positive in 88%. No correlation was found between the size of SPT and the level of in vitro sesame IgE antibodies, the outcome of OC results, and the development of tolerance to sesame. In conclusion, SFA tends to appear early in life, but unlike cow's milk and egg allergy, persists in 80% of the cases. Typical reactions combined with positive sesame SPT are reliable for diagnosis.
