The regulatory mechanism of β-eudesmol is through the suppression of caspase-1 activation in mast cell-mediated inflammatory response.	β-Eudesmol is sesquiterpenoid alcohol which contains the rhizome of Atractylodes lancea. Although it has multiple pharmacological effects, the anti-inflammatory effect of β-eudesmol and its molecular mechanisms are poorly elucidated. In this study, we investigated the regulatory mechanism of β-eudesmol on mast cell-mediated inflammatory response. The results indicated that β-eudesmol inhibited the production and expression of interleukin (IL)-6 on phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate and calcium ionophore A23187-stimulated human mast cell (HMC). In activated HMC-1 cells, β-eudesmol suppressed activation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPKs) and nuclear factor-κB. In addition, β-eudesmol suppressed the activation of caspase-1 and expression of receptor-interacting protein-2. These results provide new insights into the pharmacological actions of β-eudesmol as a potential molecule for use in therapy in mast cell-mediated inflammatory diseases.
Alantolactone induces apoptosis in chronic myelogenous leukemia sensitive or resistant to imatinib through NF-κB inhibition and Bcr/Abl protein deletion.	Alantolactone, an allergenic sesquiterpene lactone, has recently been found to have significant antitumor effects on malignant tumor cells. Here, we investigated the potential effect of alantolactone on Bcr/Abl+ imatinib-sensitive and -resistant cells. Alantolactone treatment resulted in obvious apoptosis in both imatinib-sensitive and -resistant K562 cells, as shown by the increase in Annexin V-positive cells, caspase-3 activation, poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) cleavage and mitochondrial membrane potential collapse. Alantolactone significantly inhibited NF-κB-dependent reporter gene activity, decreased the DNA-binding activity of NF-ОκB, and blocked TNF-α-induced IκBα phosphorylation. Of interest, the oncogenic Bcr/Abl fusion protein but not its mRNA levels were quickly reduced upon alantolactone exposure in imatinib-sensitive and -resistant K562 cells. Bcr/Abl knockdown enhanced the apoptosis driven by alantolactone. Bcr/Abl protein reduction could not be reversed by the addition of proteasome or caspase-3 inhibitors. The overexpression of p65 inhibited alantolactone-induced apoptosis, whereas p65 or Bcr/Abl silencing enhanced its apoptotic-inducing effect. Furthermore, Bcr/Abl-transfected 32D cells showed more sensitivity to alantolactone than vector-transfected control cells, and the Bcr/Abl protein was depleted, as observed in K562 cells. Finally, alantolactone-induced apoptosis was also observed in primary CD34+ CML leukemic cells. Collectively, these findings suggest that alantolactone is a promising potent agent to fight against CML cells via the inhibition of the NF-κB signaling pathway and depletion of the Bcr/Abl protein.
