Artemisinin and its derivatives are transported by a vacuolar-network of Plasmodium falciparum and their anti-malarial activities are additive with toxic sphingolipid analogues that block the network.	There is great need to identify and characterize drug targets and chemotherapeutic strategies against malaria. Here we show that a vacuolar-network induced by the human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum, is a major import pathway for artemisinin, a leading, new anti-malarial that is known to be effective against drug resistant strains. We also show that artemisinin-treatment induces aberrant, budding of a vacuolar-network membrane protein and its antimalarial activity is additive with toxic sphingolipid analogues that block the network. The data suggest that artemisinin alters membrane protein export from the vacuolar-network and combinations with anti-network reagents have the potential to provide powerful new chemotherapy for drug resistant malaria.
Biotransformation of 4beta-hydroxyeudesmane-1,6-dione by Gliocladium roseum and Exserohilum halodes.	Biotransformation of sesquiterpene 4beta-hydroxyeudesmane-1,6-dione by the filamentous fungi Gliocladium roseum and Exserohilum halodes was achieved. With Exserohilum halodes, only one metabolite was obtained, as a result of the regio- and stereoselective reduction of the keto group at C-1, which is difficult to achieve by chemical means. Five metabolites were produced with Gliocladium roseum, three of which, the 7alpha-hydroxylated, the 7alpha,11- and the 1alpha,8alpha-dihydroxylated derivatives, have not previously been reported. The hydroxylation at C-11 is the main action of this microorganism. These 11-hydroxylated compounds can be chemically transformed into 6beta,12-eudesmanolides.
Molecular cloning and functional identification of (+)-delta-cadinene-8-hydroxylase, a cytochrome P450 mono-oxygenase (CYP706B1) of cotton sesquiterpene biosynthesis.	In cotton, gossypol and related sesquiterpene aldehydes are present in the glands of aerial tissues and in epidermal cells of roots. A cytochrome P450 was found to be expressed in aerial tissues of glanded cotton cultivars, but not or at an extremely low level in the aerial tissues of a glandless cultivar. Its cDNA was then isolated from Gossypium arboreum L. After expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the P450 was found to catalyse the hydroxylation of (+)-delta-cadinene, forming 8-hydroxy-(+)-delta-cadinene. This P450 mono-oxygenase has been classified as CYP706B1, and is the first member of the CYP706 family for which a function has been determined. Sesquiterpene aldehydes and CYP706B1 transcripts were detected in roots of both the glanded and glandless cultivars and in aerial tissues of the glanded cultivar. In suspension cultured cells of G. arboreum, elicitors prepared from the phytopathogenic fungus Verticillium dahliae caused a dramatic induction of CYP706B1 expression. The expression pattern of CYP706B1 and the position at which it hydroxylates (+)-delta-cadinene suggest that it catalyses an early step in gossypol biosynthesis. Southern blotting revealed a single copy of CYP706B1 in the genome of G. arboreum. CYP706B1 holds good potential for manipulation of gossypol levels in cottonseed via genetic engineering.
Proposed reductive metabolism of artemisinin by glutathione transferases in vitro.	Artemisinin is a sesquiterpene lactone containing an endoperoxide bridge. It is a promising new antimalarial and is particularly useful against the drug resistant strains of Plasmodium falciparum. It has unique antimalarial properties since it acts through the generation of free radicals that alkylate parasite proteins. Since the antimalarial action of the drug is antagonised by glutathione and ascorbate and has unusual pharmacokinetic properties in humans, we have investigated if the drug is broken down by a typical reductive reaction in the presence of glutathione transferases. Cytosolic glutathione transferases (GSTs) detoxify electrophilic xenobiotics by catalysing the formation of glutathione (GSH) conjugates and exhibit glutathione peroxidase activity towards hydroperoxides. Artemisinin was incubated with glutathione, NADPH and glutathione reductase and GSTs in a coupled assay system analogous to the standard assay scheme with cumene hydroperoxide as a substrate of GSTs. Artemisinin was shown to stimulate NADPH oxidation in cytosols from rat liver, kidney, intestines and in affinity purified preparations of GSTs from rat liver. Using human recombinant GSTs hetelorogously expressed in Escherichia coli, artemisinin was similarly shown to stimulate NADPH oxidation with the highest activity observed with GST M1-1. Using recombinant GSTs the activity of GSTs with artemisinin was at least two fold higher than the reaction with CDNB. Considering these results, it is possible that GSTs may contribute to the metabolism of artemisinin in the presence of NADPH and GSSG-reductase. We propose a model, based on the known reactions of GSTs and sesquiterpenes, in which (1) artemisinin reacts with GSH resulting in oxidised glutathione; (2) the oxidised glutathione is then converted to reduced glutathione via glutathione reductase; and (3) the latter reaction may then result in the depletion of NADPH via GSSG-reductase. The ability of artemisinin to react with GSH in the presence of GST may be responsible for the NADPH utilisation observed in vitro and suggests that cytosolic GSTs are likely to be contributing to metabolism of artemisinin and related drugs in vivo.
Hormonal regulation and functional role of Drosophila E75A orphan nuclear receptor in the juvenile hormone signaling pathway.	Ecdysone and juvenile hormone (JH) are important regulators of insect growth and development. While ecdysone initiates a transition from one developmental stage to another, JH determines the nature of the transition. How these two hormones interact at the molecular level is not known. Here we report the JH inducibility of the E75A nuclear receptor encoded by the E75 early ecdysone-inducible gene. In Drosophila S2 cells, E75A transcription is specifically activated by JH at concentrations well within the physiological range found in larvae and adults. The induction is rapid and does not require a concurrent protein synthesis, and thus represents a primary hormone response. Consistent with JH regulation, E75A mRNA levels are reduced in ovaries of apterous(4) mutant adults defective in JH secretion. Expression is rescued by topical methoprene application. We further provide evidence that ectopic E75A is sufficient to perform several functions in the JH signaling pathway. First, it can down-regulate its own transcription. Second, E75A can potentiate the JH inducibility of a secondary response gene, JhI-21. Finally, in the presence of JH, E75A can repress ecdysone activation of early genes including Broad-Complex. Based on these data, we propose a model for the role of E75A in the ecdysone-JH regulatory interplay.
Reaction of artemisinin with haemoglobin: implications for antimalarial activity.	Elucidation of the principal targets of the action of the antimalarial drug artemisinin is an ongoing pursuit that is important for understanding the action of this drug and for the development of more potent analogues. We have examined the chemical reaction of Hb with artemisinin. The protein-bound haem in Hb has been found to react with artemisinin much faster than is the case with free haem. It appears that the uptake of Hb and the accumulation of artemisinin into the food vacuole, together with the preferred reactivity of artemisinin with haem in Hb, may make Hb the primary target of artemisinin's antimalarial action. Both monoalkylated (HA) and dialkylated (HAA) haem derivatives of artemisinin have been isolated. These 'haemarts' bind to PfHRP II (Plasmodium falciparum histidine-rich protein II), inhibiting haemozoin formation, and possess a significantly decreased ability to oxidize ascorbic acid. The accelerated formation of HAA from Hb is expected to decrease the ratio of haem to its alkylated derivatives. The haemarts that are generated from 'haemartoglobins' may bring about the death of malaria parasite by a two-pronged effect of stalling the formation of haemozoin by the competitive inhibition of haem binding to its templates and creating a more reducing environment that is not conducive to the formation of haemozoin.
The nonmevalonate pathway supports both monoterpene and sesquiterpene formation in snapdragon flowers.	Terpenoids, the largest class of plant secondary metabolites, play essential roles in both plant and human life. In higher plants, the five-carbon building blocks of all terpenoids, isopentenyl diphosphate (IPP) and dimethylallyl diphosphate, are derived from two independent pathways localized in different cellular compartments. The methylerythritol phosphate (MEP or nonmevalonate) pathway, localized in the plastids, is thought to provide IPP and dimethylallyl diphosphate for hemiterpene, monoterpene, and diterpene biosynthesis, whereas the cytosol-localized mevalonate pathway provides C5 units for sesquiterpene biosynthesis. Stable isotope-labeled, pathway-specific precursors (1-deoxy-[5,5-2H2]-D-xylulose and [2,2-2H2]-mevalolactone) were supplied to cut snapdragon flowers, which emit both monoterpenes and the sesquiterpene, nerolidol. We show that only one of the two pathways, the plastid-localized MEP pathway, is active in the formation of volatile terpenes. The MEP pathway provides IPP precursors for both plastidial monoterpene and cytosolic sesquiterpene biosynthesis in the epidermis of snapdragon petals. The trafficking of IPP occurs unidirectionally from the plastids to cytosol. The MEP pathway operates in a rhythmic manner controlled by the circadian clock, which determines the rhythmicity of terpenoid emission.
Tissue localization and regulation by juvenile hormone of human allergen Bla g 4 from the German cockroach, Blattella germanica (L.).	The German cockroach, Blattella germanica (L.), produces several potent protein aeroallergens, including Bla g 4, a approximately 20 kDa lipocalin. RT-PCR, Northern analyses and in situ hybridization showed that Bla g 4 is expressed only in the adult male reproductive system. Western blotting and ELISA with rBla g 4 antiserum detected immunoreactivity in the utricles and the conglobate gland, but not in other tissues of the male reproductive system. The Bla g 4 protein content of males increased from adult emergence to day 14, but during copulation Bla g 4 was depleted in the male and transferred to the female within the spermatophore. Topical application of juvenile hormone III stimulated Bla g 4 production by both conglobate gland and utricles.
Biotransformation of alpha-bulnesene using a plant pathogenic fungus, Glomerella cingulata as a biocatalyst.	The biotransformation of a sesquiterpene having a guaiane skeleton, namely (+)-alpha-bulnesene was investigated using the plant pathogenic fungus, Glomerella cingulata as a biocatalyst. (+)-alpha-Bulnesene was oxidized at the double bond of the isopropenyl group and hydroxylated at the allylic methyl group to (4S,5S,7R)-1(10)-guaien-11,13,15-triol.
Mechanistic perspectives for 1,2,4-trioxanes in anti-cancer therapy.	In addition to their well-known anti-malarial activity, artemisinin and its derivatives (1,2,4-trioxanes) possess potent activity against tumor cells in the nano- to micromolar range. Candidate genes that may contribute to the sensitivity and resistance of tumor cells to artemisinins were identified by pharmacogenomic and molecular pharmacological approaches. Target validation was performed using cell lines transfected with candidate genes or corresponding knockout cells. These genes are from classes with different biological function; for example, regulation of proliferation (BUB3, cyclins, CDC25A), angiogenesis (vascular endothelial growth factor and its receptor, matrix metalloproteinase-9, angiostatin, thrombospondin-1) or apoptosis (BCL-2, BAX). Artesunate triggers apoptosis both by p53-dependent and -independent pathways. Anti-oxidant stress genes (thioredoxin, catalase, gamma-glutamyl-cysteine synthetase, glutathione S-transferases) as well as the epidermal growth factor receptor confer resistance to artesunate. Cell lines over-expressing genes that confer resistance to established anti-tumor drugs (MDR1, MRP1, BCRP, dihydrofolate reductase, ribonucleotide reductase) were not cross-resistant to artesunate, indicating that this drug has a different target and is not subject to multidrug resistance. The Plasmodium translationally controlled tumor protein (TCTP) represents a known target protein of artemisinin and its derivatives in the malaria parasite. The microarray-based mRNA expression of human TCTP correlated with sensitivity to artesunate in tumor cells, suggesting that human TCTP contributes to response of tumor cells to the drug. The multi-factorial nature of cellular response to artemisinin and its derivatives may be beneficial to treat otherwise drug-resistant tumors and may explain why resistance development has not been observed in either cancer or malaria.
Monoterpenoid biosynthesis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Plant monoterpenoids belong to a large family of plant secondary metabolites with valuable applications in cosmetics and medicine. Their usual low levels and difficult purification justify the need for alternative fermentative processes for large-scale production. Geranyl diphosphate is the universal precursor of monoterpenoids. In yeast it occurs exclusively as an intermediate of farnesyl diphosphate synthesis. In the present study we investigated the potential use of Saccharomyces cerevisiae as an alternative engineering tool. The expression of geraniol synthase of Ocimum basilicum in yeast allowed a strong and specific excretion of geraniol to the growth medium, in contrast to mutants defective in farnesyl diphosphate synthase which excreted geraniol and linalool in similar amounts. A further increase of geraniol synthesis was obtained using yeast mutants defective in farnesyl diphosphate synthase. We also showed that geraniol synthase expression affects the general ergosterol pathway, but in a manner dependent on the genetic background of the strain.
Earlier flowering induced by over-expression of CO gene does not accompany increase of artemisinin biosynthesis in Artemisia annua.	The early flowering gene CONSTANS (CO) from Arabidopsis thaliana was transferred into Artemisia annua using the Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation system. The plant expression vector pBI CO was constructed by inserting the CO gene into the binary vector pBI121 under the control of CaMV 35S promoter. Analyses of PCR, PCR Southern blot, and Southern blot revealed that the transgenic plants contained the foreign CO gene. The results of RT-PCT and RT-PCR Southern blot suggested that the foreign CO gene had expressed at the transcriptional level. Although the flowering time of the CO transgenic plant was about 2 weeks earlier than that of the non-transgenic plant under short-day conditions, no significant difference in artemisinin content was found between the flowering transgenic plant and the non-flowering non-transgenic plant. These results show that the usually observed increase of artemisinin content before plant flowering under natural conditions is not a direct consequence of flowering itself, perhaps there is even no direct linkage between flowering and artemisinin biosynthesis.
Biosynthesis and engineering of isoprenoid small molecules.	Isoprenoid secondary metabolites are a rich source of commercial products that have not been fully explored. At present, there are isoprenoid products used in cancer therapy, the treatment of infectious diseases, and crop protection. All isoprenoids share universal prenyl diphosphate precursors synthesized via two distinct pathways. From these universal precursors, the biosynthetic pathways to specific isoprenoids diverge resulting in a staggering array of products. Taking advantage of this diversity has been the focus of much effort in metabolic engineering heterologous hosts. In addition, the engineering of the mevalonate pathway has increased levels of the universal precursors available for heterologous production. Finally, we will describe the efforts to produce to commercial terpenoids, paclitaxel and artemisinin.
Juvenile hormone III influences task-specific cuticular hydrocarbon profile changes in the ant Myrmicaria eumenoides.	We investigated the influence of juvenile hormones (JH) on the composition of cuticular hydrocarbons (CHCs) and the division of labor in colonies of the African ant Myrmicaria eumenoides. CHCs have long been implicated in nestmate recognition in social insect colonies. In M. eumenoides, the CHC profiles also vary with the task performed from brood-tender-type to forager type. The endocrine factors regulating the task allocation as well as the intracolonial recognition cues are not well understood, but JHs are prime candidates. Only JH III was identified in the hemolymph of M. eumenoides workers. Foragers had significantly higher JH III titers than brood tenders. The application of exogenous JH III and a JH analogue (methoprene) to M. eumenoides workers did not result in an observable acceleration of task change in our study. However, longevity of the focus workers, and thus the observational period, was reduced by the applications. Changes from a brood-tender-type to a forager-type CHC profile were accelerated by the application of JH III and methoprene, resulting in brood-tending workers that displayed forager-type CHC profiles. We present the first data supporting that recognition cues of an eusocial Hymenopteran are influenced by JH III, which could thus play a major role in the regulation of the dynamic nature of social insect colonies. JH III is connected to at least two key processes: the acceleration of CHC changes and the more long-term modulation of task shifting. Moreover, this indicates that changes in CHC recognition cues do not trigger task allocation in social insect colonies.
Parthenolide inhibits IkappaB kinase, NF-kappaB activation, and inflammatory response in cystic fibrosis cells and mice.	Cystic fibrosis (CF) is characterized by prolonged and excessive inflammatory responses in the lung and increased activation of NF-kappaB. Parthenolide is a sesquiterpene lactone derived from the plant feverfew, which has been used in folk medicine for anti-inflammatory activity. Several studies suggest that this compound inhibits the NF-kappaB pathway, but the exact site is controversial. We hypothesized that parthenolide might ameliorate the excessive inflammatory response in CF models by inhibiting activation of NF-kappaB. This was tested in vitro, using two pairs of cell lines with defective versus normal CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) (antisense/sense transfected 16 HBE and IB-3/S9), and in vivo, using CFTR-knockout (KO) mice. All cell lines were pretreated with parthenolide and then stimulated with IL-1beta and/or TNF. Parthenolide significantly inhibited IL-8 secretion induced by these cytokines and prevented NF-kappaB activation, IkappaBalpha degradation, and IkappaB Kinase complex activity. CFTR-KO and wild-type mice were pretreated with parthenolide or vehicle alone then challenged intratracheally with LPS. Bronchoalveolar lavage was performed 3, 6, and 8 h later. Parthenolide pretreatment inhibited PMN influx as well as cytokine and chemokine production. This was also associated with inhibition of IkappaBalpha degradation and NF-kappaB activation. We thus conclude that parthenolide inhibits IkappaB kinase, resulting in stabilization of cytoplasmic IkappaBalpha, which in turn leads to inhibition of NF-kappaB translocation and attenuation of subsequent inflammatory responses. IkappaB kinase may be a good target, and parthenolide and/or feverfew might be promising treatments for the excessive inflammation in CF.
Evaluation of the evolution of increased competitive ability (EICA) hypothesis: loss of defense against generalist but not specialist herbivores.	The evolution of increased competitive ability (EICA) hypothesis predicts that invasive plant species may escape their specialized natural enemies in their introduced range and subsequently evolve with a decrease in investment in anti-herbivore chemical defenses relative to native conspecifics. We compared the chemical profile of 10 populations of US native and 20 populations of European invasive Solidago gigantea. To test for differences in inducibility between native and invasive populations, we measured secondary chemistry in both damaged and undamaged plants. We also performed bioassays with three specialist and two generalist insect herbivores from four different feeding guilds. There was no evidence that invasive populations had reduced concentrations of sesquiterpenes, diterpenes, or short-chain hydrocarbons (SCH), although significant variation among populations was detected. Sesquiterpene and diterpene concentrations were not influenced by damage to the host plant, whereas SCH concentrations were decreased by damage for both native and invasive plants. Performance of the three specialist insects was not affected by the continental origin of the host plant. However, larval mass of the generalist caterpillar Spodoptera exigua was 37% lower on native plants compared to invasive plants. The other generalist insect, a xylem-tapping spittlebug that occurs on both continents, performed equally well on native and invasive plants. These results offer partial support for the defense predictions of the EICA hypothesis: the better growth of Spodoptera caterpillars on European plants shows that some defenses have been lost in the introduced range, even though our measures of secondary chemistry did not detect differences between continents. Our results show significant variation in chemical defenses and herbivore performance across populations on both continents and emphasize the need for analysis across a broad spatial scale and the use of multiple herbivores.
Distribution of imidacloprid residues in different parts of rice plants and its effect on larvae and adult females of Chilo suppressalis (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae).	The distribution of imidacloprid residue in different parts of rice, Oryza sativa L. (Graminales: Poaceae), plants was investigated for three rice varieties. Changes in larval hormones in Chilo suppressalis (Walker) (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae) that fed on imidacloprid-treated plant sources and the fecundity of resultant adult females (moths) also were determined. No significant differences in imidacloprid residue were detected in rice stem, leaves, and the unexpanded new leaf 7 d after treatment except in the rice variety Fengyouxiangzhan, in which residue content in leaves and the unexpanded new leaf was significantly lower than that in the stem. The percentage of reduction of imidacloprid residue after treatment varied with rice variety and plant parts. The greatest reduction in the three plant parts was shown in Wujing 15 compared with the other two varieties. The decomposition rate of imidacloprid residue in Wujing 15 was greater in leaves and unexpanded new leaf than in the stem, whereas in Wuyunjing 7 it was lower in leaves than in the unexpanded new leaf and stem. In Fengyouxiangzhan, the decomposition rate of imidacloprid in the stem increased 14 d after treatment. Juvenile hormone III and molting hormone titers in fourth instar larvae that had fed on rice plants treated with imidacloprid since the neonate stage were significantly higher than those in larvae fed on untreated plants (control). Juvenile hormone titer in larvae that had fed on Zizamia lalifolia Turcz galls treated with imidacloprid and the fecundity of the female moths that developed from such larvae were also significantly higher than that on the control counterparts. These results are discussed in relation to the impact of imidacloprid on nontarget insects and pest management.
Juvenile hormone titres and winged offspring production do not correlate in the pea aphid, Acyrthosiphon pisum.	Pea aphids, Acyrthosiphon pisum, reproduce parthenogenetically and are wing-dimorphic such that offspring can develop into winged (alate) or unwinged (apterous) adults. Alate induction is maternal and offspring phenotype is entirely determined by changes in the physiology and environment of the mother. Juvenile hormones (JHs) have been implicated in playing a role in wing differentiation in aphids, however until recently, methods were not available to accurately quantify these insect hormones in small insects such as aphids. Using a novel LC-MS approach we were able to quantify JH III in pea aphids that were either producing a high proportion of winged morphs among their offspring or mainly unwinged offspring. We measured JH III titres by pooling the hemolymph of 12 or fewer individuals (1 microL hemolymph) treated identically. Levels of JH ranged from 30 to 163 pg/microL. While aphids in the two treatments strongly differed in the proportion of winged morphs among their offspring, their JH III titres did not differ significantly. There was also no correlation between JH III titre and the proportion of winged offspring in induced aphids. This supports earlier findings that wing dimorphism in aphids may be regulated by other physiological mechanisms.
Overexpression of the lemon basil alpha-zingiberene synthase gene increases both mono- and sesquiterpene contents in tomato fruit.	alpha-Zingiberene synthase (ZIS), a sesquiterpene synthase gene that was isolated from lemon basil (Ocimum basilicum L.), encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the formation of alpha-zingiberene, and other sesquiterpenes, from farnesyl diphosphate. Transgenic tomato fruits overexpressing ZIS under the control of the fruit ripening-specific tomato polygalacturonase promoter (PG) accumulated high levels of alpha-zingiberene (224-1000 ng g(-1) fresh weight) and other sesquiterpenes, such as alpha-bergamotene, 7-epi-sesquithujene, beta-bisabolene and beta-curcumene, whereas no sesquiterpenes were detected in non-transformed control fruits. The ZIS-transgenic fruits also produced monoterpenes, such as alpha-thujene, alpha-pinene, beta-phellandrene and gamma-terpinene (1-22 ng g(-1) fresh weight), which were either not detected or were found only in minute concentrations in control fruits. Recombinant ZIS overexpressed in Escherichia coli catalyzed the formation of these monoterpenes from geranyl diphosphate. As the ZIS protein apparently lacks a transit peptide, and is localized in the cytosol, the production of monoterpenes in the transgenic tomatoes suggests that a pool of geranyl diphosphate is available in the cytosol. The phenotype of the ZIS-transgenic tomatoes was the same as that for wild-type tomatoes, with regard to plant vigor and shape, but transgenic plants exhibited a small decrease in lycopene content. This study thus showed that the synthesis of both mono- and sesquiterpenes can be enhanced by the ectopic expression of a single transgene in tomato fruit, and it further demonstrated the interconnection between the pools of terpenoid precursors in the plastids and the cytosol.
Differential activities of thalidomide and isoprenoid biosynthetic pathway inhibitors in multiple myeloma cells.	Thalidomide has emerged as an effective agent for treating multiple myeloma, however the precise mechanism of action remains unknown. Agents known to target the isoprenoid biosynthetic pathway (IBP) can have cytotoxic effects in myeloma cells. The interactions between thalidomide and IBP inhibitors in human multiple myeloma cells were evaluated. Enhanced cytotoxicity and induction of apoptosis were observed in RPMI-8226 cells. Examination of intracellular levels of farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP) and geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate (GGPP) revealed a wide variance in basal levels and response to IBP inhibitors. These findings provide a mechanism for the differential sensitivity of myeloma cells to pharmacologic manipulation of the IBP.
P2Y5 is a G(alpha)i, G(alpha)12/13 G protein-coupled receptor activated by lysophosphatidic acid that reduces intestinal cell adhesion.	P2Y5 is a G protein-coupled receptor that binds and is activated by lysophosphatidic acid (LPA). We determined that P2Y5 transcript is expressed along the intestinal mucosa and investigated the intracellular pathways induced by P2Y5 activation, which could contribute to LPA effects on intestinal cell adhesion. P2Y5 heterologously expressed in CHO and small intestinal hBRIE 380i cells was activated by LPA resulting in an increase in intracellular calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)) when the cells concurrently expressed G(alpha)(Delta6qi5myr). P2Y5 activation also increased the phosphorylation of ERK1/2 that was sensitive to pertussis toxin. Together these indicate that P2Y5 activation by LPA induces an increase in [Ca(2+)](i) and ERK1/2 phosphorylation through G(alpha)(i). We discovered that P2Y5 was activated by farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP) without a detectable change in [Ca(2+)](i). The activation of P2Y5 by LPA or FPP induced the activity of a serum response element (SRE)-linked luciferase reporter that was inhibited by the RGS domain of p115RhoGEF, C3 exotoxin, and Y-27632, suggesting the involvement of G(alpha)(12/13), Rho GTPase, and ROCK, respectively. However, only LPA-mediated induction of SRE reporter activity was sensitive to inhibitors targeting p38 MAPK, PI3K, PLC, and PKC. In addition, only LPA transactivated the epidermal growth factor receptor, leading to an induction of ERK1/2 phosphorylation. These observations correlate with our subsequent finding that P2Y5 activation by LPA, and not FPP, reduced intestinal cell adhesion. This study elucidates a mechanism whereby LPA can act as a luminal and/or serosal cue to alter mucosal integrity.
Improved computational performance of MFA using elementary metabolite units and flux coupling.	Extending the scope of isotope mapping models becomes increasingly important in order to analyze strains and drive improved product yields as more complex pathways are engineered into strains and as secondary metabolites are used as starting points for new products. Here we present how the elementary metabolite unit (EMU) framework and flux coupling significantly decrease the computational burden of metabolic flux analysis (MFA) when applied to large-scale metabolic models. We applied these techniques to a previously published isotope mapping model of Escherichia coli accounting for 238 reactions. We find that the combined use of EMU and flux coupling analysis leads to a ten-fold decrease in the number of variables in comparison to the original isotope distribution vector (IDV) version of the model. In addition, using OptMeas the task of identifying additional measurement choices to fully specify the flows in the metabolic network required only 2% of the computation time of the one using IDVs. The observed computational savings reveal the rapid progress in performing MFA with increasingly larger isotope models with the ultimate goal of handling genome-scale models of metabolism.
Foliar mono- and sesquiterpene contents in relation to leaf economic spectrum in native and alien species in Oahu (Hawai'i).	Capacity for terpene production may confer advantage in protection against abiotic stresses such as heat and drought, and also against herbivore and pathogen attack. Plant invasive success has been intense in the Hawaiian islands, but little is known about terpene content in native and alien plant species on these islands. We conducted a screening of leaf terpene concentrations in 35 native and 38 alien dominant plant species on Oahu island. Ten (29%) of the 35 native species and 15 (39%) of the 38 alien species contained terpenes in the leaves. This is the first report of terpene content for the ten native species, and for 10 of the 15 alien species. A total of 156 different terpenes (54 monoterpenes and 102 sesquiterpenes) were detected. Terpene content had no phylogenetic significance among the studied species. Alien species contained significantly more terpenes in leaves (average+/-SE=1965+/-367 microg g(-1)) than native species (830+/-227 microg g(-1)). Alien species showed significantly higher photosynthetic capacity, N content, and lower Leaf Mass Area (LMA) than native species, and showed higher total terpene leaf content per N and P leaf content. Alien species, thus, did not follow the expected pattern of "excess carbon" in comparison with native species. Instead, patterns were consistent with the "nutrient driven synthesis" hypothesis. Comparing alien and native species, the results also support the modified Evolution of Increased Competitive Ability (EICA) hypothesis that suggests that alien success may be favored by a defense system based on an increase in concentrations of less costly defenses (terpenes) against generalist herbivores.
Suppression of SOS-inducing activity of chemical mutagens by metabolites from microbial transformation of (+)-longicyclene.	In this study, biotransformation of (+)-longicyclene (1) by Aspergillus niger (NBRC 4414) and the suppressive effect on umuC gene expression by chemical mutagens 2-(2-furyl)-3-(5-nitro-2-furyl)acrylamide (furylfuramide) and aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) of the SOS response in Salmonella typhimurium TA1535/pSK1002 were investigated. Initially, compound 1 was converted to three new terpenoids, (-)-(10R)-10-hydroxy-longicyclic acid (2), (+)-(10S)-10-hydroxy-longicyclic acid (3), and (+)-10-oxo-longicyclic acid (4) by A. niger , and their conversion rates were 27, 23, and 30%, respectively. The metabolites suppressed the SOS-inducing activity of furylfuramide and AFB1 in the umu test. Compounds 1-4 were hardly showing a suppressive effect on umu gene expression of the SOS responses in S. typhimurium TA1535/pSK1002 against furylfuramid. However, metabolites showed a suppressive effect against AFB1. Compound 4 had gene expression by chemical mutagen AFB1, was suppressed 53% at <1.0 mM, and was the most effective compound in this experiment.
The production of artemisinin precursors in tobacco.	Artemisinin, in the form of artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACTs), is currently the most important compound in the treatment of malaria. The current commercial source of artemisinin is Artemisia annua, but this represents a relatively expensive source for supplying the developing world. In this study, the possibility of producing artemisinin in genetically modified plants is investigated, using tobacco as a model. Heterologous expression of A. annua amorphadiene synthase and CYP71AV1 in tobacco led to the accumulation of amorphadiene and artemisinic alcohol, but not artemisinic acid. Additional expression of artemisinic aldehyde Δ11(13) double-bond reductase (DBR2) with or without aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 (ALDH1) led to the additional accumulation dihydroartemisinic alcohol. The above-mentioned results and in vivo metabolic experiments suggest that amorphane sesquiterpenoid aldehydes are formed, but conditions in the transgenic tobacco cells favour reduction to alcohols rather than oxidation to acids. The biochemical and biotechnological significance of these results are discussed.
Plant-emitted semi-volatiles shape the infochemical environment and herbivore resistance of heterospecific neighbors.	Plant-emitted volatiles have been reported to shape ecological interactions occurring among species within single or between multiple trophic levels. The ecological contribution of volatiles to plant-herbivore, plant-pathogen, plant-to-plant and multitrophic interactions can be mutualistic, or may either favour or disfavour the players involved in the infochemical network. Emitting, perceiving or being passively engaged with airborne volatiles can result in ecological costs and/or benefits, render competitive advantage and shape population dynamics. We recently demonstrated a cost-effective way for plants to take advantage of volatile-based defence: by adsorbing neighbor-emitted compounds to defend against herbivory. We found that specific semi-volatiles emitted by Rhododendron tomentosum Harmaja are adsorbed to neighboring birch (Betula sp.) foliage in a natural habitat, in a field set-up and in the laboratory. These semi-volatiles were found to deter certain birch herbivores, and may thus confer associational resistance to birch. Here we show the relative change in the volatile profile of birch that occurs when neighbored by R. tomentosum. We further discuss the potential wider role of biogenic semi-volatiles for ecological interactions in natural environments and suggest how they might be utilized for pest management in agricultural crop production.
Selective breeding of entomopathogenic nematodes for enhanced attraction to a root signal did not reduce their establishment or persistence after field release.	We recently showed that the efficacy of an entomopathogenic nematode (EPN) as a biological control agent against a root pest could be enhanced through artificial selection. The EPN Heterorhabditis bacteriophora was selected for higher responsiveness towards (E)-β-caryophyllene (EβC), a sesquiterpene that is emitted by maize roots in response to feeding damage by the western corn rootworm (WCR). EβC is normally only weakly attractive to H. bacteriophora, which is one of the most infectious nematodes against WCR. By selecting H. bacteriophora to move more readily along a EβC gradient we obtained a strain that was almost twice more efficient in controlling WCR population in fields planted with an EβC-producing maize variety. However, artificial selection for one trait may come at a cost for other important traits such as infectiousness, establishment and/or persistence in the field. Indeed, infectiousness was slightly but significantly reduced in the selected strain. Yet, this apparent cost was largely compensated for by the higher responsiveness to the root signal. Here we show that the selection process had no negative effect on establishment and persistence of field-released EPN. This knowledge, combined with the previously reported results, attest to the feasibility of manipulating key traits to improve the efficacy of beneficial organisms.
Crystal structure of heterodimeric hexaprenyl diphosphate synthase from Micrococcus luteus B-P 26 reveals that the small subunit is directly involved in the product chain length regulation.	Hexaprenyl diphosphate synthase from Micrococcus luteus B-P 26 (Ml-HexPPs) is a heterooligomeric type trans-prenyltransferase catalyzing consecutive head-to-tail condensations of three molecules of isopentenyl diphosphates (C(5)) on a farnesyl diphosphate (FPP; C(15)) to form an (all-E) hexaprenyl diphosphate (HexPP; C(30)). Ml-HexPPs is known to function as a heterodimer of two different subunits, small and large subunits called HexA and HexB, respectively. Compared with homooligomeric trans-prenyltransferases, the molecular mechanism of heterooligomeric trans-prenyltransferases is not yet clearly understood, particularly with respect to the role of the small subunits lacking the catalytic motifs conserved in most known trans-prenyltransferases. We have determined the crystal structure of Ml-HexPPs both in the substrate-free form and in complex with 7,11-dimethyl-2,6,10-dodecatrien-1-yl diphosphate ammonium salt (3-DesMe-FPP), an analog of FPP. The structure of HexB is composed of mostly antiparallel α-helices joined by connecting loops. Two aspartate-rich motifs (designated the first and second aspartate-rich motifs) and the other characteristic motifs in HexB are located around the diphosphate part of 3-DesMe-FPP. Despite the very low amino acid sequence identity and the distinct polypeptide chain lengths between HexA and HexB, the structure of HexA is quite similar to that of HexB. The aliphatic tail of 3-DesMe-FPP is accommodated in a large hydrophobic cleft starting from HexB and penetrating to the inside of HexA. These structural features suggest that HexB catalyzes the condensation reactions and that HexA is directly involved in the product chain length control in cooperation with HexB.
Pentalenic acid is a shunt metabolite in the biosynthesis of the pentalenolactone family of metabolites: hydroxylation of 1-deoxypentalenic acid mediated by CYP105D7 (SAV_7469) of Streptomyces avermitilis.	Pentalenic acid (1) has been isolated from many Streptomyces sp. as a co-metabolite of the sesquiterpenoid antibiotic pentalenolactone and related natural products. We have previously reported the identification of a 13.4-kb gene cluster in the genome of Streptomyces avermitilis implicated in the biosynthesis of the pentalenolactone family of metabolites consisting of 13 open reading frames. Detailed molecular genetic and biochemical studies have revealed that at least seven genes are involved in the biosynthesis of the newly discovered metabolites, neopentalenoketolactone, but no gene specifically dedicated to the formation of pentalenic acid (1) was evident in the same gene cluster. The wild-type strain of S. avermitilis, as well as its derivatives, mainly produce pentalenic acid (1), together with neopentalenoketolactone (9). Disruption of the sav7469 gene encoding a cytochrome P450 (CYP105D7), members of which class are associated with the hydroxylation of many structurally different compounds, abolished the production of pentalenic acid (1). The sav7469-deletion mutant derived from SUKA11 carrying pKU462∷ptl-clusterΔptlH accumulated 1-deoxypentalenic acid (5), but not pentalenic acid (1). Reintroduction of an extra-copy of the sav7469 gene to SUKA11 Δsav7469 carrying pKU462∷ptl-clusterΔptlH restored the production of pentalenic acid (1). Recombinant CYP105D7 prepared from Escherichia coli catalyzed the oxidative conversion of 1-deoxypentalenic acid (5) to pentalenic acid (1) in the presence of the electron-transport partners, ferredoxin (Fdx) and Fdx reductase, both in vivo and in vitro. These results unambiguously demonstrate that CYP105D7 is responsible for the conversion of 1-deoxypentalenic acid (5) to pentalenic acid (1), a shunt product in the biosynthesis of the pentalenolactone family of metabolites.
Diversion of flux toward sesquiterpene production in Saccharomyces cerevisiae by fusion of host and heterologous enzymes.	The ability to transfer metabolic pathways from the natural producer organisms to the well-characterized cell factory Saccharomyces cerevisiae is well documented. However, as many secondary metabolites are produced by collaborating enzymes assembled in complexes, metabolite production in yeast may be limited by the inability of the heterologous enzymes to collaborate with the native yeast enzymes. This may cause loss of intermediates by diffusion or degradation or due to conversion of the intermediate through competitive pathways. To bypass this problem, we have pursued a strategy in which key enzymes in the pathway are expressed as a physical fusion. As a model system, we have constructed several fusion protein variants in which farnesyl diphosphate synthase (FPPS) of yeast has been coupled to patchoulol synthase (PTS) of plant origin (Pogostemon cablin). Expression of the fusion proteins in S. cerevisiae increased the production of patchoulol, the main sesquiterpene produced by PTS, up to 2-fold. Moreover, we have demonstrated that the fusion strategy can be used in combination with traditional metabolic engineering to further increase the production of patchoulol. This simple test case of synthetic biology demonstrates that engineering the spatial organization of metabolic enzymes around a branch point has great potential for diverting flux toward a desired product.
Cereal crop volatile organic compound induction after mechanical injury, beetle herbivory (Oulema spp.), or fungal infection (Fusarium spp.).	Herbivory, mechanical injury or pathogen infestation to vegetative tissues can induce volatile organic compounds (VOCs) production, which can provide defensive functions to injured and uninjured plants. In our studies with 'McNeal' wheat, 'Otana' oat, and 'Harrington' barley, plants that were mechanically injured, attacked by either of two Oulema spp. (melanopus or cyanella) beetles, or infected by one of the three Fusarium spp. (graminearum, avenaceum, or culmorum), had significant VOC induction compared to undamaged plants. Mechanical injury to the main stem or one leaf caused the induction of one green leaf volatile (GLV) - (Z)-3-hexenol, and three terpenes (β-linalool, β-caryophyllene, and α-pinene) with all three grasses; wheat and barley also showed β-linalool oxide induction. The blend of induced VOCs after Fusarium spp. infestation or Oulema spp. herbivory was dominated by GLVs ((Z)-3-hexenal, (E)-2-hexenal, (E)-2-hexenol, (Z)-3-hexenyl acetate, and 1-hexenyl acetate) and β-linalool and β-caryophyllene; beetle herbivory also induced (E)-β-farnesene. Different ratios of individual VOCs were induced between the two Oulema spp. for each cereal grass and different ratios across the three cereals for each beetle species. Also, different ratios of individual VOCs were induced between the three Fusarium spp. for each cereal grass and different ratios across the three cereals for each fungal pathogen species. Our results are preliminary since we could not simultaneously measure VOC induction from controls with each of the ten different injury treatments for each of the three cereals. However, the comparison of mechanical injury, insect herbivory, and fungal infection has not been previously examined with VOC responses from three different plant species within the same family. Also, our work suggests large qualitative and quantitative overlap of VOC induction from plants of all three cereals having beetle herbivory injury when compared to infection injury from necrotrophic fungal pathogens.
The outer membrane protein TolC is required for phytoalexin resistance and virulence of the fire blight pathogen Erwinia amylovora.	Erwinia amylovora causes fire blight on several plant species such as apple and pear, which produce diverse phytoalexins as defence mechanisms. An evolutionary successful pathogen thus must develop resistance mechanisms towards these toxic compounds. The E. amylovora outer membrane protein, TolC, might mediate phytoalexin resistance through its interaction with the multidrug efflux pump, AcrAB. To prove this, a tolC mutant and an acrB/tolC double mutant were constructed. The minimal inhibitory concentrations of diverse antimicrobials and phytoalexins were determined for these mutants and compared with that of a previously generated acrB mutant. The tolC and arcB/tolC mutants were considerably more susceptible than the wild type but showed similar levels as the acrB mutant. The results clearly indicated that neither TolC nor AcrAB significantly interacted with other transport systems during the efflux of the tested toxic compounds. Survival and virulence assays on inoculated apple plants showed that pathogenicity and the ability of E. amylovora to colonize plant tissue were equally impaired by mutations of tolC and acrB/tolC. Our results allowed the conclusion that TolC plays an important role as a virulence and fitness factor of E. amylovora by mediating resistance towards phytoalexins through its exclusive interaction with AcrAB.
Production of amorpha-4,11-diene in engineered yeasts]	Plasmid-carrying Saccharomyces cerevisia (W303-1B[pYeDP60/G/ADS]) and genome-transformed S. cerevisia (W303-1B[rDNA:ADS]), both harboring amorpha-4,11-diene synthase (ADS) gene were constructed to investigate the production of amorpha-4,11-diene. The recombinant plasmid pYeDP60/G/ADS that harbors the ADS gene was transformed into S. cerevisiae W303-1B, resulting in the engineered yeast W303-1B[pYeDP60/G/ADS], which contains multi-copies of the plasmid. The ADS gene expression cassette was obtained by PCR amplification of the pYeDP60/G/ADS template, and then introduced into S. cerevisiae W303-1B to obtain the engineered yeast W303-1B[rDNA:ADS], in which the ADS gene was integrated into the rDNA locus of the yeast genome through the homologous recombination. GC-MS analysis confirmed that both of the engineered yeasts could produce amorpha-4,11-diene. Moreover, the amorpha-4,11-diene yield of W303-1B[pYeDP60/G/ADS] was higher than that of W303-1B[rDNA:ADS]. Southern blot analysis showed that there is only one copy of ADS gene in the genome of W303-1B[rDNA:ADS]. It implied that the amorpha-4,11-diene yield can be improved by increasing the ADS gene copies.
Food grade fungal stress on germinating peanut seeds induced phytoalexins and enhanced polyphenolic antioxidants.	The effects of food grade fungus Rhizopus oligosporus stress on phytochemicals and phytoalexins of germinating peanut seeds were investigated by comparing the metabolic profiles of ungerminated (UG), germinated (G), and germinated seeds under fungal stress (GS). Three types of peanut seeds with different skin color (red, reddish brown, and black) were compared in the process. The polyphenolic contents were analyzed and correlated with antioxidant capacity for specific free radicals including peroxyl radical ROO(•) (ORAC), hydroxyl radical HO(•) (HORAC), superoxide radical O(2)(•-) (SORAC), and DPPH radical. The polyphenolic fingerprints analyzed by HPLC and LC-MS(n) showed that phenolic acids (coumaric, sinapinic, and ferulic acids derivatives) were the major group of phenolic compounds in ungerminated seeds. G or GS increased the level of phenolic acids, phytoalexins, and antioxidant capacity values in reddish and red peanuts but not in black peanuts. From the LC-MS(n) spectral data, 45 compounds were identified tentatively in the germinated peanuts, including 14 coumaric acids, 3 ferulic acids, 4 sinapinic acids, 2 hydroxybenzoic acids, 1 caffeic acid, 2 flavonoids, and 19 stilbenoids derivatives. Reddish brown germinated peanuts produced the highest amount of phytoalexins after GS with 55 compounds detected. Forty-five of these compounds were suggested as stilbenoid phytoalexins derivatives. The high content of phytoalexins may enhance the bioactivity of peanut seeds as functional food ingredients.
Effects of farnesyl pyrophosphate accumulation on calvarial osteoblast differentiation.	Statins, drugs commonly used to lower serum cholesterol, have been shown to stimulate osteoblast differentiation and bone formation. Statins inhibit 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl (HMG)-coenzyme A reductase (HMGCR), the first step of the isoprenoid biosynthetic pathway, leading to the depletion of the isoprenoids farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP) and geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate (GGPP). The effects of statins on bone have previously been attributed to the depletion of GGPP, because the addition of exogenous GGPP prevented statin-stimulated osteoblast differentiation in vitro. However, in a recent report, we demonstrated that the specific depletion of GGPP did not stimulate but, in fact, inhibited osteoblast differentiation. This led us to hypothesize that isoprenoids upstream of GGPP play a role in the regulation of osteoblast differentiation. We demonstrate here that the expression of HMGCR and FPP synthase decreased during primary calvarial osteoblast differentiation, correlating with decreased FPP and GGPP levels during differentiation. Zaragozic acid (ZGA) inhibits the isoprenoid biosynthetic pathway enzyme squalene synthase, leading to an accumulation of the squalene synthase substrate FPP. ZGA treatment of calvarial osteoblasts led to a significant increase in intracellular FPP and resulted in inhibition of osteoblast differentiation as measured by osteoblastic gene expression, alkaline phosphatase activity, and matrix mineralization. Simultaneous HMGCR inhibition prevented the accumulation of FPP and restored osteoblast differentiation. In contrast, specifically inhibiting GGPPS to lower the ZGA-induced increase in GGPP did not restore osteoblast differentiation. The specificity of HMGCR inhibition to restore osteoblast differentiation of ZGA-treated cultures through the reduction in isoprenoid accumulation was confirmed with the addition of exogenous mevalonate. Similar to ZGA treatment, exogenous FPP inhibited the mineralization of primary calvarial osteoblasts. Interestingly, the effects of FPP accumulation on osteoblasts were found to be independent of protein farnesylation. Our findings are the first to demonstrate that the accumulation of FPP impairs osteoblast differentiation and suggests that the depletion of this isoprenoid may be necessary for normal and statin-induced bone formation.
A short-chain dehydrogenase involved in terpene metabolism from Zingiber zerumbet.	The rhizome oil of Zingiber zerumbet Smith contains an exceptionally high content of sesquiterpenoids with zerumbone, a predominating potential multi-anticancer agent. Biosynthetic pathways of zerumbone have been proposed, and two genes ZSS1 and CYP71BA1 that encode the enzymes catalyzing the first two steps have been cloned. In this paper, we isolated a cDNA clone (ZSD1) that encodes an alcohol dehydrogenase capable of catalyzing the final step of zerumbone biosynthesis. ZSD1 has an open reading frame of 804 bp that encodes a 267-residue enzyme with a calculated molecular mass of 28.7 kDa. After expression in Escherichia coli, the recombinant enzyme was found to catalyze 8-hydroxy-α-humulene into zerumbone. ZSD1 is a member of the short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase superfamily (SDR) and shares high identities with other plant SDRs involved in secondary metabolism, stress responses and phytosteroid biosynthesis. In contrast to the transcripts of ZSS1 and CYP71BA1, which are almost exclusively expressed in rhizomes, ZSD1 transcripts are detected in leaves, stems and rhizomes, suggesting that ZSD1 may also be involved in other biological processes. Consistent with its proposed flexible substrate-binding pocket, ZSD1 also converts borneol to camphor with K(m) and k(cat) values of 22.8 μm and 4.1 s(-1) , displaying its bisubstrate feature.
The biosynthesis of isoprenoids and the mechanisms regulating it in plants.	Plants synthesize isopentenyl diphosphate (IPP) via the mevalonate pathway and the methylerythritol phosphate (MEP) pathway. IPP is condensed to its allylic isomer, dimethylallyl diphosphate, to yield geranylgeranyl diphosphate, a common precursor for the production of cyclic diterpenoids. Studies of subcellular localization and of transgenic plants defective in the enzymes involved in the pathway have revealed that the synthesis processes of plastidic diterpenoids are metabolically separated in the plastids. Ditepenoid phytoalexins are synthesized through the plastidic MEP pathway in rice. The biosynthetic genes responsible for diterpenoid phytoalexins are clustered on the rice chromosomes, and the expression of them was coordinately regulated under stress conditions. Furthermore, a basic leucine zipper transcription factor, OsTGAP1, which is induced by the fungal chitin oligosaccharide elicitor, was identified as a key regulator of coordinated expression of the clustered biosynthetic genes for phytoalexin production in rice.
Activation of camalexin biosynthesis in Arabidopsis thaliana in response to perception of bacterial lipopolysaccharides: a gene-to-metabolite study.	Lipopolysaccharides (LPS), as lipoglycan microbe-associated molecular pattern molecules, trigger activation of signal transduction pathways involved in defence that generate an enhanced defensive capacity in plants. The transcriptional regulation of the genes for tryptophan synthase B, TSB1, and the cytochrome P450 monooxygenases CYP79B2 and CYP71B15, involved in the camalexin biosynthetic pathway, were investigated in response to LPS treatment. GUS-reporter assays for CYP71B15 and CYP79B2 gene promoter activation were performed on transgenic plants and showed positive histochemical staining in response to LPS treatment, indicating activation of the promoters. Quantitative PCR revealed that transcripts of TSB1, CYP79B2 and CYP71B15 exhibited differential, transient up-regulation. TSB1 transcript levels were up-regulated between 6 and 9 h after LPS-induction, while CYP71B15 and CYP79B2 both exhibited maxima at 12 h. To obtain information on the gene-to-metabolite network, the effect of the transcriptome changes on the metabolome was correlated to camalexin production. Increases in camalexin concentration were quantified by ultra pressure liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and both absorbance spectra and elemental composition confirmed its identity. The concentrations increased from 0.03 to 3.7 μg g(-1) fresh weight over a 24-h time period, thus indicating that the up-regulation of the biosynthetic pathway in response to LPS was accompanied by a time-dependent increase in camalexin concentration. Metabolomic analysis through principal component analysis-derived scores plots revealed clusters of sample replicates for 0, 6, 12, 18 and 24 h while loadings plots for LPS data identified camalexin as a biomarker that clearly demonstrated the variability between samples.
Purification and identification of naringenin 7-O-methyltransferase, a key enzyme in biosynthesis of flavonoid phytoalexin sakuranetin in rice.	Sakuranetin, the major flavonoid phytoalexin in rice, is induced by ultraviolet (UV) irradiation, CuCl(2) treatment, jasmonic acid treatment, and infection by phytopathogens. It was recently demonstrated that sakuranetin has anti-inflammatory activity, anti-mutagenic activity, anti-pathogenic activities against Helicobacter pylori, Leishmania, and Trypanosoma and contributes to the maintenance of glucose homeostasis in animals. Thus, sakuranetin is a useful compound as a plant antibiotic and a potential pharmaceutical agent. Sakuranetin is biosynthesized from naringenin by naringenin 7-O-methyltransferase (NOMT). In previous research, rice NOMT (OsNOMT) was purified to apparent homogeneity from UV-treated wild-type rice leaves, but the purified protein, named OsCOMT1, exhibited caffeic acid O-methyltransferase (COMT) activity and not NOMT activity. In this study, we found that OsCOMT1 does not contribute to sakuranetin production in rice in vivo, and we purified OsNOMT using the oscomt1 mutant. A crude protein preparation from UV-treated oscomt1 leaves was subjected to three sequential purification steps, resulting in a 400-fold purification from the crude enzyme preparation. Using SDS-PAGE, the purest enzyme preparation showed a minor band at an apparent molecular mass of 40 kDa. Two O-methyltransferase-like proteins, encoded by Os04g0175900 and Os12g0240900, were identified from the 40-kDa band by MALDI-TOF/TOF analysis. Recombinant Os12g0240900 protein showed NOMT activity, but the recombinant Os04g0175900 protein did not. Os12g0240900 expression was induced by jasmonic acid treatment in rice leaves prior to sakuranetin accumulation, and the Os12g0240900 protein showed reasonable kinetic properties to OsNOMT. On the basis of these results, we conclude that Os12g0240900 encodes an OsNOMT.
Identification and characterization of xiamycin A and oxiamycin gene cluster reveals an oxidative cyclization strategy tailoring indolosesquiterpene biosynthesis.	Xiamycin A (XMA) and oxiamycin (OXM) are bacterial indolosesquiterpenes featuring rare pentacyclic ring systems and are isolated from a marine-derived  Streptomyces  sp. SCSIO 02999. The putative biosynthetic gene cluster for XMA/OXM was identified by a partial genome sequencing approach. Eighteen genes were proposed to be involved in XMA/OXM biosynthesis, including five genes for terpene synthesis via a non-mevalonate pathway, eight genes encoding oxidoreductases, and five genes for regulation and resistance. Targeted disruptions of 13 genes within the xia gene cluster were carried out to probe their encoded functions in XMA/OXM biosynthesis. The disruption of xiaK, encoding an aromatic ring hydroxylase, led to a mutant producing indosespene and a minor amount of XMA. Feeding of indosespene to XMA/OXM nonproducing mutants revealed indosespene as a common precursor for XMA/OXM biosynthesis. Most notably, the flavin dependent oxygenase XiaI was biochemically characterized in vitro to convert indosespene to XMA, revealing an unusual oxidative cyclization strategy tailoring indolosesquiterpene biosynthesis.
Response of sunflower (Helianthus annuus L.) leaf surface defenses to exogenous methyl jasmonate.	Helianthus annuus, the common sunflower, produces a complex array of secondary compounds that are secreted into glandular trichomes, specialized structures found on leaf surfaces and anther appendages of flowers. The primary components of these trichome secretions are sesquiterpene lactones (STL), a diverse class of compounds produced abundantly by the plant family Compositae and believed to contribute to plant defense against herbivory. We treated wild and cultivated H. annuus accessions with exogenous methyl jasmonate, a plant hormone that mediates plant defense against insect herbivores and certain classes of fungal pathogens. The wild sunflower produced a higher density of glandular trichomes on its leaves than the cultivar. Comparison of the profiles of glandular trichome extracts obtained by liquid chromatography-mass spectroscopy (LC-MS) showed that wild and cultivated H. annuus were qualitatively similar in surface chemistry, although differing in the relative size and proportion of various compounds detected. Despite observing consistent transcriptional responses to methyl jasmonate treatment, we detected no significant effect on glandular trichome density or LC-MS profile in cultivated or wild sunflower, with wild sunflower exhibiting a declining trend in overall STL production and foliar glandular trichome density of jasmonate-treated plants. These results suggest that glandular trichomes and associated compounds may act as constitutive defenses or require greater levels of stimulus for induction than the observed transcriptional responses to exogenous jasmonate. Reduced defense investment in domesticated lines is consistent with predicted tradeoffs caused by selection for increased yield; future research will focus on the development of genetic resources to explicitly test the ecological roles of glandular trichomes and associated effects on plant growth and fitness.
Improvement of amorpha-4,11-diene production by a yeast-conform variant of Vitreoscilla hemoglobin.	Amorpha-4,11-diene is the precursor of the antimalarial compound artemisinin. The effect of Vitreoscilla hemoglobin (VHb) and its yeast-conform variant (VHbm) on amorpha-4,11-diene production in engineered Saccharomyces cerevisiae was investigated. First, the VHb gene was mutated to the yeast-conform variant VHbm based on step-by-step extension of a short region of the gene through a series of polymerase chain reactions (PCR). The artificial VHbm gene contained codons preferred by the yeast translation machinery. Two yeast expression vectors containing VHb or VHbm gene were constructed and introduced into the amorpha-4,11-diene-producing strain S. cerevisiae WK1 to form WK1[VHb] and WK1[VHbm], respectively. Western blot and CO-difference spectrum absorbance assay showed that VHb and VHbm were successfully expressed. In shake flasks, VHbm expression conferred higher cell growth than VHb expression. GC-MS results indicated the amorpha-4,11-diene production in WK1[VHbm] and WK1[VHb] was 3- and 2-fold higher than that in WK1, respectively. This suggests that VHb might improve the amorpha-4,11-diene production in engineered S. cerevisiae.
Bidirectional secretions from glandular trichomes of pyrethrum enable immunization of seedlings.	Glandular trichomes are currently known only to store mono- and sesquiterpene compounds in the subcuticular cavity just above the apical cells of trichomes or emit them into the headspace. We demonstrate that basipetal secretions can also occur, by addressing the organization of the biosynthesis and storage of pyrethrins in pyrethrum (Tanacetum cinerariifolium) flowers. Pyrethrum produces a diverse array of pyrethrins and sesquiterpene lactones for plant defense. The highest concentrations accumulate in the flower achenes, which are densely covered by glandular trichomes. The trichomes of mature achenes contain sesquiterpene lactones and other secondary metabolites, but no pyrethrins. However, during achene maturation, the key pyrethrin biosynthetic pathway enzyme chrysanthemyl diphosphate synthase is expressed only in glandular trichomes. We show evidence that chrysanthemic acid is translocated from trichomes to pericarp, where it is esterified into pyrethrins that accumulate in intercellular spaces. During seed maturation, pyrethrins are then absorbed by the embryo, and during seed germination, the embryo-stored pyrethrins are recruited by seedling tissues, which, for lack of trichomes, cannot produce pyrethrins themselves. The findings demonstrate that plant glandular trichomes can selectively secrete in a basipetal direction monoterpenoids, which can reach distant tissues, participate in chemical conversions, and immunize seedlings against insects and fungi.
Induction of stilbene phytoalexins in grapevine (Vitis vinifera) and transgenic stilbene synthase-apple plants (Malus domestica) by a culture filtrate of Aureobasidium pullulans.	Products containing the epiphytic yeast Aureobasidium pullulans are commercially available and applied by fruit growers to prevent several fungal and bacterial diseases of fruit trees. The proposed beneficial mechanisms relate to limitations of space and nutrients for the pathogens in presence of the rapidly proliferating yeast cells. These explanations ignore the potential of yeasts to elicit the plant's defense. Our experiments aim at clarifying if an autoclaved and centrifuged suspension of A. pullulans may induce defense mechanisms. As a model system, the biosynthesis and accumulation of stilbene phytoalexins in callus and shoots of grapevine Vitis vinifera grown in vitro was used. Yeast application to the plant tissue stimulated stilbene biosynthesis, sometimes at the cost of flavonoids. The expression of the gene encoding stilbene synthase was enhanced and the enzyme showed higher activity while chalcone synthase activity and expression was reduced in some cases. An accumulation of stilbenes was also found in transgenic apple trees (Malus domestica cv. Holsteiner Cox) harboring the stilbene synthase-gene under control of its own promoter. These results clearly show that the application of A. pullulans may induce defense mechanisms of the treated plants.
Acyclic sesquiterpenes released by Candida albicans inhibit growth of dermatophytes.	It is unresolved as to whether fungi that share a common skin habitat might in principal interact. In in vitro screening tests with Candida albicans, Trichophytum rubrum and other common dermatophytes, we found C. albicans releases volatile compounds that inhibit growth of the dermatophytes. By applying (enantioselective) gas chromatography combined with mass spectrometry we identified 8 compounds among which stereochemically pure (3R,6E)-2,3-dihydrofarnesol (R-DHF) and (2E,6E)-farnesol (F-ol) were the main components. Synthetic R-DHF and its enantiomer, (3S,6E)-2,3-dihydrofarnesol (S-DHF), as well as F-ol were tested for their capacity to inhibit growth of dermatophytes in microtiter-plate assays over 62 h. All three compounds showed significant and concentration-dependent, to a certain extent even species-specific, inhibitory effects on T. rubrum, T. mentagrophytes, Microsporum canis and Epidermophyton floccosum. In general, S-DHF and F-ol had a pronounced effect on the dermatophytes, similar to or even stronger than that of fluconazole. E. floccosum was completely suppressed by 12.5 μg/ml dihydrofarnesol, as was the inhibition caused by 50 μg/ml fluconazole. Similarly, S-DHF- was more active against T. rubrum than fluconazole. To the best of our knowledge, 2,3-dihydrofarnesol has not yet been described as a volatile generated by microorganisms, and its inhibitory effect on dermatophytes is new to science. However, the relevance of this compound in interfungal interference in situ is unknown. In contrast, farnesol is a well-known semiochemical of C. albicans with intraspecific effects and a clear impact on other microorganisms. Mutual intermicrobial communication based on fungal volatiles therefore appears to be an exciting field for future investigations.
Cloning of a sesquiterpene synthase from Lavandula x intermedia glandular trichomes.	The essential oil (EO) of Lavandula is dominated by monoterpenes, but can also contain small amounts of sesquiterpenes, depending on species and environmental conditions. For example, the sesquiterpene 9-epi-caryophyllene can make up to 8 % of the EO in a few species, including those commercially propagated for EO production. Here, we report the cloning and functional characterization of 9-epi-caryophyllene synthase (LiCPS) from the glandular trichomes of Lavandula x intermedia, cv. Grosso. The 1,617 bp open reading frame of LiCPS, which did not encode a transit peptide, was expressed in Escherichia coli and the recombinant protein purified by Ni-NTA agarose affinity chromatography. The ca. 60 kDa recombinant protein specifically converted farnesyl diphosphate to 9-epi-caryophyllene. LiCPS also produced a few monoterpenes when assayed with the monoterpene precursor geranyl diphosphate (GPP), but--unlike most monoterpene synthases--was not able to derive detectable amounts of any products from the cis isomer of GPP, neryl diphosphate. The LiCPS transcripts accumulated in developing L. x intermedia flowers and were highly enriched in glandular trichomes, but were not detected in leaves suggesting that the transcriptional expression of this gene is spatially and developmentally regulated.
Cholesterol as a causative factor in Alzheimer's disease: a debatable hypothesis.	High serum/plasma cholesterol levels have been suggested as a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Some reports, mostly retrospective epidemiological studies, have observed a decreased prevalence of AD in patients taking the cholesterol lowering drugs, statins. The strongest evidence causally linking cholesterol to AD is provided by experimental studies showing that adding/reducing cholesterol alters amyloid precursor protein (APP) and amyloid beta-protein (Ab) levels. However, there are problems with the cholesterol-AD hypothesis. Cholesterol levels in serum/plasma and brain of AD patients do not support cholesterol as a causative factor in AD.Prospective studies on statins and AD have largely failed to show efficacy. Even the experimental data are open to interpretation given that it is well-established that modification of cholesterol levels has effects on multiple proteins, not only amyloid precursor protein and Ab. The purpose of this review, therefore, was to examine the above-mentioned issues, discuss the pros and cons of the cholesterol-AD hypothesis, involvement of other lipids in the mevalonate pathway, and consider that AD may impact cholesterol homeostasis.
Valencene oxidase CYP706M1 from Alaska cedar (Callitropsis nootkatensis).	(+)-Nootkatone is a natural sesquiterpene ketone used in grapefruit and citrus flavour compositions. It occurs in small amounts in grapefruit and is a major component of Alaska cedar (Callitropsis nootkatensis) heartwood essential oil. Upon co-expression of candidate cytochrome P450 enzymes from Alaska cedar in yeast with a valencene synthase, a C. nootkatensis valencene oxidase (CnVO) was identified to produce trans-nootkatol and (+)-nootkatone. Formation of (+)-nootkatone was detected at 144±10μg/L yeast culture. CnVO belongs to a new subfamily of the CYP706 family of cytochrome P450 oxidases. 
Elucidation and in planta reconstitution of the parthenolide biosynthetic pathway.	Parthenolide, the main bioactive compound of the medicinal plant feverfew (Tanacetum parthenium), is a promising anti-cancer drug. However, the biosynthetic pathway of parthenolide has not been elucidated yet. Here we report on the isolation and characterization of all the genes from feverfew that are required for the biosynthesis of parthenolide, using a combination of 454 sequencing of a feverfew glandular trichome cDNA library, co-expression analysis and metabolomics. When parthenolide biosynthesis was reconstituted by transient co-expression of all pathway genes in Nicotiana benthamiana, up to 1.4μgg(-1) parthenolide was produced, mostly present as cysteine and glutathione conjugates. These relatively polar conjugates were highly active against colon cancer cells, with only slightly lower activity than free parthenolide. In addition to these biosynthetic genes, another gene encoding a costunolide and parthenolide 3β-hydroxylase was identified opening up further options to improve the water solubility of parthenolide and therefore its potential as a drug. 
Study of production of sesquiterpenes of Aquilaria senensis stimulated by Lasiodiplodia theobromae]	To investigate the mechanism of agarwood formation in Aquilaria sinensis induced by Lasiodiplodia theobromae, the fermentation liquor of L. theobromae was analyzed qualitatively and quantitatively by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). JAs were detected in the fermentation liquor. The effect of the fermentation liquor on the abundance of sesquiterpenes in the callus of A. sinensis was analyzed by solid phase microextraction-gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (SPME-GC-MS). And the fermentation liquor stimulated alpha-guaiene, alpha-humulene and delta-guaiene biosynthesis in calli. It was inferred that L. theobromae produced JAs, which resulted in a significant increase of sesquiterpenes in A. sinensis.
Metabolic conversions of trichothecene mycotoxins: de-esterification reactions using cell-free extracts of Fusarium.	A crude cell-free extract from cultures of Fusarium sp. strain C37410-90 possessed significant esterase activity and hydrolyzed the trichothecene mycotoxin 3-acetyldeoxynivalenol (3-AcDON) to deoxynivalenol (DON) in high yield. Smaller amounts of 15-acetyl- and 3,15-diacetyl-esters of DON were also formed. The extract was capable of hydrolyzing a range of natural and semisynthetic trichothecene esters, and showed a high degree of regioselectivity towards position 3. 3,4,15-Triacetylscirpentriol (TAS) was efficiently hydrolyzed to 4,15-diacetoxyscirpenol (DAS), and no further transformation was observed. The enzyme activity was partially purified.
Differential association of T-2 and T-2 tetraol with mammalian cells.	The interactions of T-2 and its metabolite T-2 tetraol (hereafter tetraol) with CHO (Chinese hamster ovary cells) and CHO ribosomes were studied. T-2 was about 300-fold more potent at inhibiting protein synthesis in CHO than was tetraol. Association of T-2 with CHO was highly specific and achieved a maximum at a concentration producing complete inhibition of protein synthesis. Association of tetraol with CHO was of low specificity, but the specific fraction did correlate with the dose-response curve for protein synthesis inhibition. Binding of both T-2 and tetraol to isolated CHO ribosomes was quantitatively similar and highly specific. With isolated ribosomes, each toxin competed effectively for the binding of the other. Using intact cells, tetraol competed for T-2 cell association, but not the converse. The kinetics at physiological temperature for total and specific T-2 cell association were much more rapid than those for tetraol. Furthermore, the rate of tetraol-cell association was indistinguishable from the rate for cellular uptake of tritiated water. At 0 degrees C, there was a substantial association of T-2 with cells, whereas none was observed with tetraol. The kinetics of dissociation of both toxins from CHO were similar. We conclude that T-2 rapidly crosses the cell membrane of cells and binds to the intracellular target, the ribosomes. In contrast, tetraol is taken up by the cell much more slowly, and many more toxin molecules are found in the cell than there are ribosomes. It would appear that the main physical property of the toxins that brings about these results is the relative hydrophobicities of the molecules.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Inhibition of inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase by sesquiterpene lactones.	Inosine monophosphate (IMP) dehydrogenase had previously been determined to be a likely target enzyme for the sesquiterpene lactones, a class of potential anti-neoplastic drugs. IMP dehydrogenase was purified approx. 770-fold from the P-388 lymphocytic leukemia tumor cell line. The Km values for the substrates, IMP and NAD, were determined to be 12 microM and 25 microM, respectively. Xanthine monophosphate (XMP) was shown to be a competitive inhibitor with a Ki of 67 microM. Mycophenolic acid gave mixed-type inhibition with a Ki of 8 nM for the noncompetitive component and a Ki of 2 nM for the competitive component. Dissociation constants (Kd) and rate constants for inhibition of IMP dehydrogenase by nine different sesquiterpene lactones were determined. The highest Kd was seen with 2,3-dihydrohelenalin while the lowest Kd was observed with bis-helenalinyl malonate. Binding of the drugs by IMP dehydrogenase increased as the size of the drug increased. Also, changes in structure at position 6 had a relatively large effect on the Kd. There was no correlation with hydrophobicity, as determined by octanol/water partition. The first-order rate constants for the reaction of the sesquiterpene lactones with IMP dehydrogenase (k1) and the second-order rate constants for the reaction of the sesquiterpene lactones with glutathione (k2) were also determined. The rate constants for most of the sesquiterpene lactones with the alpha-methylene-gamma-lactone moiety were similar and were approximately twice as great as the rate constants for those sesquiterpene lactones with only the alpha, beta-unsaturated cyclopentenone ring. Microlenin had approximately 5-times the reactivity of the other sesquiterpene lactones towards IMP dehydrogenase, but had approximately the same reactivity towards glutathione, suggesting that it was bound to the enzyme in a way which facilitated its reaction with one or more essential sulfhydryls. The same procedure was used for a series of N-substituted maleimide compounds with the N-substituent ranging in size from a methyl group to a benzyl group. The binding of the maleimide compounds was generally tighter than for the sesquiterpene lactones and there was an increase in binding with size.
Influence of the antileukemic and anti-human immunodeficiency virus agent avarol on selected immune responses in vitro and in vivo.	The effect of the antileukemic and anti-HIV agent avarol on the lymphoid system was studied both in vitro and in vivo. Radioactively labelled avarol ([3H]-dihydroavarol) was found to accumulate in vitro in the cytoplasmic compartment primarily of T-lymphocytes and not of B-lymphocytes. Avarol increased significantly the IgG and IgM production by cultures of human lymphoid cells (unseparated) in vitro and slightly the number of plaque forming cells in vivo in spleen of mice. Moreover, a pretreatment of mice with avarol resulted in a higher [3H]-dThd incorporation rate in both macrophage-containing and macrophage-depleted lymphocyte cultures in vitro. The stimulatory influence of avarol on humoral immune responses is not accompanied by a change of the antibody-mediated hypersensitivity reaction, as measured by the Arthus reaction. No significant influence of avarol on the cellular immune system in vivo (rats or mice) was found, as taken from studies on delayed-type hypersensitivity reactions to sheep red blood cells and to oxazolone. The in vitro and animal data indicate that avarol combines useful properties (anti-HIV efficiency in vitro and augmentation of humoral immune responses) to consider it as a potential anti-AIDS agent.
In vitro percutaneous penetration and metabolism of [3H]T-2 toxin: comparison of human, rabbit, guinea pig and rat.	The purpose of this research was to determine which species of laboratory animal provided the best approximation of in vitro percutaneous penetration and metabolism of T-2 in humans. The [3H]T-2 which penetrated discs of skin after 48 hr (expressed as per cent of dose, 581 ng/cm2) was 1.0, 1.4, 2.8 and 9.7% for the human, rabbit, guinea pig and rat when the vehicle was methanol. The penetration was 29.2, 19.6, 51.9 and 52.6% for the human, rabbit, guinea pig and rat when the vehicle was DMSO. When 2 concentrations were compared, 79 ng/cm2 and 581 ng/cm2 (the vehicle was methanol), the higher dose caused a significant (P less than 0.05) increase in the per cent of dose which penetrated human and guinea pig skin. Metabolism was extensive in the human, rabbit, and rat, with the main metabolite being HT-2 toxin. Previous studies comparing human to monkey indicated penetration in these 2 species was different when methanol was the vehicle. This study indicates that the rabbit provides the best approximation of human skin, both in terms of penetration kinetics and metabolic activity.
T-2 toxin metabolism by ruminal bacteria and its effect on their growth.	The effect of T-2 toxin on the growth rates of different bacteria was used as a measure of its toxicity. Toxin levels of 10 micrograms/ml did not decrease the growth rate of Selenomonas ruminantium and Anaerovibrio lipolytica, whereas the growth rate of Butyrivibrio fibrisolvens was uninhibited at toxin levels as high as 1 mg/ml. There was, however, a noticeable increase in the growth rate of B. fibrisolvens CE46 and CE51 and S. ruminantium in the presence of low concentrations (10 micrograms/ml) of T-2 toxin, which may indicate the assimilation of the toxin as an energy source by these bacteria. Three tributyrin-hydrolyzing bacterial isolates did not grow at all in the presence of T-2 toxin (10 micrograms/ml). The growth rate of a fourth tributyrin-hydrolyzing bacterial isolate was unaffected. B. fibrisolvens CE51 degraded T-2 toxin to HT-2 toxin (22%), T-2 triol (3%), and neosolaniol (10%), whereas A. lipolytica and S. ruminantium degraded the toxin to HT-2 toxin (22 and 18%, respectively) and T-2 triol (7 and 10%, respectively) only. These results have been explained in terms of the presence of two different toxin-hydrolyzing enzyme systems. Studies with B. fibrisolvens showed the presence of a T-2 toxin-degrading enzyme fraction in a bacterial membrane preparation. This fraction had an approximate molecular weight of 65,000 and showed esterase activity (395.6 mumol of p-nitrophenol formed per min per mg of protein with p-nitrophenylacetate as the substrate.
Lack of hepatic microsomal metabolism of deoxynivalenol and its metabolite, DOM-1.	Rat hepatic microsomal preparations were used to study the metabolism of deoxynivalenol (DON) and its metabolite 3 alpha,7 alpha,15-trihydroxytrichothec-9,12-dien-8-one (DOM-1). The N-demethylation of ethylmorphine was monitored to assess the viability of the mixed-function oxidase. DON was incubated with microsomes and an NADPH-generating system. Samples were removed from the incubation system and analysed for DON using an HPLC equipped with a UV detector. After incubation for 30 min, there was no evidence of disappearance of DON or of the presence of new metabolites; neither was microsomal NADPH oxidation altered by the addition of DON. Rat and pig hepatic microsomal preparations were used to assess DON glucuronidation, using p-nitrophenol disappearance to check the viability of the microsomal glucuronidating system. When DON was incubated with microsomes and 14C-labelled uridine 5'-diphosphoglucuronic acid, no radioactivity was detected in the TLC zone where the glucuronide was expected. Three rats and one pig were dosed orally with 2 mg DON/kg and samples of their urine and faeces were extracted and incubated with beta-glucuronidase or with buffer only. No differences in DON or DOM-1 concentrations were detected between samples incubated with or without beta-glucuronidase. These results suggest that DON was neither bioactivated to a more toxic product nor oxidized to a less toxic compound by the rat hepatic mixed-function oxidase system. Likewise, DOM-1 was not reactivated or metabolized by this system. Neither DON nor DOM-1 glucuronides were formed either in in vitro liver systems or in vivo.
Metabolic fate and elimination in milk, urine and bile of deoxynivalenol following administration to lactating sheep.	Using a combination of radioisotopic counting and chromatographic detection techniques, the kinetics and metabolic fate of deoxynivalenol (DON) in plasma, urine and bile were studied in lactating sheep, as was the transmission of residues to milk. Following intravenous administration, the plasma clearance of 14C-DON-derived radioactivity was rapid and followed a tri-phasic decay curve comprised of a bi-exponential decrease in DON (rapid distribution phase, t1/2 alpha = 16.2 min; slower elimination phase t1/2 beta = 66.5 min) and the formation and elimination (t1/2 beta = 188.0 min) of its major plasma metabolite, DON-glucuronide conjugate, which accounted for 13% of the plasma radioactivity levels. DON was rapidly cleared from the body by metabolism to 7 possible metabolites, which were excreted essentially in the urine (91%) and to a lesser extent in the bile (6%). Most (67%) of the recovered radioactivity was in the form of the glucuronide conjugates of DON (54%) and the de-epoxide metabolite, DOM-1 (13%). Excretion of unmetabolized DON accounted for 11%. The remaining recovered dose (18%) comprised of minor amounts of DOM-1 (6%), DON-sulfate conjugate (2%) and 3 unidentified radioactive components (10%). Studies on the presence of DON-derived residues in milk indicated that, relative to the dose, only trace amounts were transmitted following either oral or iv administration of the toxin.
Absorption, distribution and metabolism of [14C]-levomenol in the skin]	The purpose of the present investigations was to study the cutaneous absorption of sesquiterpenic alcohol, the major active principle of chamomile. For these investigations 14C-labelled levomenol ((-)-6-methyl-2-(4-methyl-3-cyclohexen-1-yl)-5-hepten-2-ol; (-)-alpha-bisabolol) was prepared by biochemical incorporation of [14C]-acetate into the molecule. 5 h after topical application of the radiolabelled substance onto nude mice half of the radioactivity was found in the skin. The other part was measured in tissue and organes. 90% of this radioactivity was analysed as intact levomenol. To demonstrate the distribution of the substance in the skin a part of this tissue was cutted into horizontal slices by a cryotome. From the slices autoradiograms were produced. The densitometric measuration showed that there was a fast penetration of levomenol into the skin. 5 h after the topical application the substance was displaced from outermost to innermost areas. From these results a fast cutaneous absorption and a long therapeutical effect of the antiphlogistic and spasmolytic levomenol in the skin can be expected.
Effects of sodium fluoride on uptake of T-2 mycotoxin in cultured cells.	We examined the effect of sodium fluoride on uptake of tritium-labeled T-2 toxin (molecules of toxin/cell) in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) and African green monkey kidney (VERO) cells. Correlations were made to temperature (22 and 37 degrees C) and toxin concentration (0.001 and 0.01 microgram/ml) over time (0-180 min). As expected, toxin uptake increased in both cell types with increasing time and temperature. VERO cells exhibited significant (P less than 0.05) increases in the rate (i.e. slope) of toxin uptake under all parameters, while the rate of toxin uptake in both cell types was generally greater at 37 degrees C compared to 22 degrees C. The rate of equilibrium was affected by both temperature and sodium fluoride. At 37 degrees C toxin uptake plateaued by 30 min in the presence of sodium fluoride. At 22 degrees C the rate of toxin uptake was slower, with or without sodium fluoride present. Statistical analysis of individual time points along the curve demonstrated that sodium fluoride significantly increased cell-associated toxin at most time points. Analysis of the slopes of uptake curves from 0 to 20 min indicated significant (P less than 0.05) differences in the rates of T-2 uptake in both cell types and toxin doses in the presence of sodium fluoride. The increase in toxin uptake in the presence of sodium fluoride was not due to altered cell membrane permeability caused by sodium fluoride. This study demonstrates that sodium fluoride significantly increases cell-associated T-2 toxin and the rate of toxin uptake in two cultured cell lines.
Metabolism of T-2 mycotoxin by cultured cells.	T-2 mycotoxin is a small (i.e. mol. wt 466), non-protein toxin. We studied its metabolism in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells, African green monkey kidney (VERO) cells, human fibroblasts and mouse connective tissue cells (L-929). Confluent cells were exposed to [3H]-T-2(0.01 micrograms/ml) for 1 hr at 37 degrees C. The toxin was removed, cells rinsed, and unlabeled culture media added for 4 hr (37 degrees C). Cell monolayers were extracted and media and cell extracts were spotted on thin-layer chromatography plates with known standards. Thin-layer plates were developed and scanned for radioactivity, and metabolites were identified based on co-migration with known standards. CHO and VERO cells metabolized T-2 to a greater per cent and to a wider variety of metabolites than the other two cell types. In CHO, fibroblast and L-929 cells, the major metabolite was HT-2 toxin, while in VERO cells an unknown metabolite, more polar than T-2, was the major metabolite. Cell and media extracts of CHO and VERO cells revealed smaller amounts of T-2 triol, T-2 tetraol and several unknowns. In both cell types, metabolites were detected in labeled media by 1 hr and in increasing amounts in unlabeled media by 4 hr. Under the above conditions, 37-58% of the radioactivity remained as T-2 toxin after 4 hr in both cell types. The data suggest that some cultured cell lines possess enzyme systems capable of limited metabolism of T-2 mycotoxin to a variety of known and some as yet unidentified metabolites.
Toxinogenic vomitoxin-producing fusaria isolated from wheat]	Out of the 25 strains of the genus Fusarium isolated from wheat visibly infested by moulds, three strains of F. graminearum were found to produce vomitoxin and zearalenone; the respective amounts of these toxins per 1 kg of wheat were 70, 100 and 600 mg vomitoxin, and 600, 400 and 250 mg zearalenone. The production of vomitoxin showed a marked decrease when the cultures were re-inoculated. An analytic determination of vomitoxin in cereals was worked out by the method of high-pressure liquid chromatography with a limit sensitivity of 20 micrograms vomitoxin per kg and by the method of thin-layer chromatography with a limit sensitivity of 100 micrograms vomitoxin per kg. The embryotoxicity of vomitoxin measured in chick embryos incubated for 40 hours was in the order of 1 microgram per embryo.
The interaction of artemisinin with malarial hemozoin.	[14C]Artemisinin was taken up by Plasmodium falciparum in culture and concentrated in hemozoin. In vitro, hemin and artemisinin were found to undergo a chemical reaction forming two major products which were isolated by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The m/z values of the two products were 856 and 871. Thin-layer chromatography (TLC) and HPLC of hemozoin isolated from [14C]artemisinin-treated parasites showed that the majority of the hemozoin-associated radioactivity comigrated with the synthetic adducts. When [14C]artemisinin was incubated with isolated hemozoin, [14C]artemisinin disappeared from the solution in a time-dependent manner. Some of the radioactivity present in the treated hemozoin also comigrated with the adducts on TLC. Thus, artemisinin appears to react covalently with heme in malaria hemozoin both in vitro and in situ.
Aflavinines and other antiinsectan metabolites from the ascostromata of Eupenicillium crustaceum and related species.	This report describes the distribution of antiinsectan metabolites present in sclerotioid ascostromata produced by representative strains of Eupenicillium crustaceum and fungal taxa that are considered to be closely related. The hexane and chloroform extracts of E. crustaceum NRRL 3332 displayed significant antiinsectan activity in assays against the corn earworm, Helicoverpa zea. The major metabolite accounting for this antiinsectan activity was a known aflavinine analog, 10,23-dihydro-24,25-dehydroaflavinine, occurring at approximately 2.8 mg/g of dry ascostromata. In dietary assays at ca. 3,000 ppm, a 79% reduction in weight gain and a 42% reduction in feeding rate were observed in H. zea and Carpophilus hemipterus larvae, respectively. A new aflavinine analog, 10,23,24,25-tetrahydro-24-hydroxyaflavinine, was also identified. These aflavinine compounds are the first to be reported from a fungal genus other than Aspergillus. New macrophorin-type metabolites accounted for the antiinsectan activity of ascostromata produced by E. crustaceum NRRL 22307, which produced no aflavinines, while Eupenicillium molle NRRL 13062 produced both aflavinines and macrophorins. Sclerotia produced by Penicillium gladioli NRRL 938, NRRL 939, and QM 2743, a fungus reported to be conspecific with the anamorph of E. crustaceum, produced neither aflavinines nor macrophorins. Eupenicillium reticulisporum NRRL 3446 produced the aflavinine analog 10,23-dihydro-24,25-dehydroaflavinine and an unrelated compound called pyripyropene A, a potent inhibitor of acyl-coenzyme A-cholesterol acyltransferase. Eupenicillium abidjanum NRRL 5809, reported to be conspecific with E. reticulisporum, produced neither of these compounds. The Eupenicillium species that produced aflavinines are also known for their ability to grow rapidly with reduced water activity.
The occurrence of 12, 13-epoxytrichothecenes in seeds of safflower infected with Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. carthami.	From the seeds of safflower (Carthamus tinctorius Linn.), infected with Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. carthami, 3 toxic compounds have been isolated in quantities sufficient to cause mycotoxicosis on prolonged ingestion. 2 of these have been identified as diacetoxyscirpenol and T-2 toxin, while the third one has also been partially characterized as a 12, 13-epoxytrichothecene. Additionally, the incidence of secondary fusarial infection of healthy seeds due to contamination with the infected ones has been reported for the first time.
Artemisinin and the antimalarial endoperoxides: from herbal remedy to targeted chemotherapy.	Artemisinin and its derivatives are endoperoxide-containing compounds which represent a promising new class of antimalarial drugs. In the presence of intraparasitic iron, these drugs are converted into free radicals and other electrophilic intermediates which then alkylate specific malaria target proteins. Combinations of available derivatives and other antimalarial agents show promise both as first-line agents and in the treatment of severe disease.
Assessment of the effect of malaria infection on hepatic clearance of dihydroartemisinin using rat liver perfusions and microsomes.	1. The clearance of dihydroartemisinin (DHA) in control and malaria-infected (MI) rats was investigated using the isolated perfused rat liver (IPRL) model and hepatic microsomal studies. 2. In the recirculating IPRL, clearance of DHA was reduced from a mean (s.d.) of 8.2+/-1.8 ml min(-1) in controls (n=8) to 6.0+/-1.0 ml min(-1) in MI (n=8; P<0.01). Clearance in control livers was similar to the perfusion flow rate, suggesting a high hepatic extraction ratio for DHA. 3. Single-pass IPRL studies in controls (n=8) showed that DHA bioavailability at 1.3, 8 and 38 microm was 0.026+/-0.020, 0.043+/-0.025 and 0.14+/-0.06, respectively (P<0.001 for 8 microM vs 38 microM). In MI livers (n=5), DHA bioavailability at 8 and 38 microM was 0.18+/-0.07 and 0.40+/-0.08, respectively (P=0.002). Bioavailability was higher in the MI group than in controls (P=0.01 at 8 microM and P<0.001 at 38 microM). DHA-glucuronide was the sole biliary metabolite. 4. Hepatic microsomal studies of DHA-glucuronide formation showed a significantly lower Vmax but no significant change in Km, in MI compared to control livers (n=6). Intrinsic metabolic clearance (Vmax/Km) was higher in control than in MI livers (5.2+/-1.3 and 2.5+/-1.4 microl min(-1) mg(-1), respectively; P=0.006). 5. These studies demonstrate that DHA has a high, concentration-dependent hepatic extraction ratio that is reduced by 20-30% in the P. berghei rodent malaria model. The impaired hepatic clearance of DHA in MI is attributable to a reduction in intrinsic metabolic clearance.
