Synthesis and structure-activity relationships of new non-steroidal progesterone receptor ligands.	In order to study structure-activity relationships, a series of new non-steroidal progesterone receptor ligands based on PF1092A was synthesized with structural modifications (mostly introduction or removal of a methyl group) at the 3-, 4-, 5-, 7- or 9-position in the 6-acetoxy-4a, 5, 6, 7-tetrahydro-3, 4a, 5-trimethylnaphtho[2,3-b]furan-2(4H)-one skeleton. Critical positions for high binding affinity to the progesterone receptor were identified.
Importance of geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate for mesangial cell DNA synthesis.	Farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP) and geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate (GGPP) are isoprenoid products of the intracellular mevalonate pathway used for prenylation of several low molecular weight G proteins, including Ras. It is likely that platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) stimulation of mesangial cell proliferation requires prenylated, low molecular weight G proteins. The purpose of this study was to investigate the dependence of platelet-derived growth factor-stimulated mesangial cell DNA synthesis and cell membrane Ras incorporation on FPP and GGPP.
Effect of pravastatin on type IV collagen secretion and mesangial cell proliferation.	The mevalonate pathway is important for the biosynthesis of isoprenoids such as geranylgeranylpyrophosphate (GGPP) and farnesylpyrophosphate (FPP) as well as cholesterol. It has been reported that treatment with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor ameliorates glomerular injury in several experimental models of progressive glomerular disease. The present investigation was performed to elucidate the role of mevalonate metabolites in mesangial cell proliferation and extracellular matrix accumulation.
Interaction of anisatin with rat brain gamma-aminobutyric acidA receptors: allosteric modulation by competitive antagonists.	Anisatin, a toxic sesquiterpene isolated from the Japanese star anise (Illicium anisatum L.), competitively inhibited the specific binding of [3H]4'-ethynyl-4-n-propylbicycloorthobenzoate ([3H]EBOB), a non-competitive antagonist of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptors, to rat brain membranes with an IC50 value of 0.43 microM. R 5135, a competitive GABA antagonist, decreased the potency of anisatin in inhibiting [3H]EBOB binding in a negatively cooperative manner. Two other competitive antagonists, SR 95531 (gabazine) and (-)-bicuculline methiodide, had similar effects. On the other hand, R 5135 exerted little influence on the potencies of the other non-competitive antagonists tested: EBOB, picrotoxinin, isopropylbicyclophosphate, and dieldrin. Thus, anisatin was clearly different from the other non-competitive antagonists in responding to the action of competitive antagonists on (GABA)A receptors. These findings suggest that the binding region of anisatin might overlap with that of the other non-competitive antagonists, but that anisatin must interact with other specific region(s).
Bracken carcinogens in the human diet.	The ubiquitous bracken fern (genus Pteridium) is the only higher plant known to cause cancer naturally in animals. In addition to the well-recognized syndromes of thiamine deficiency, acute haemorrhage associated with myeloid aplasia and blindness due to retinal degeneration, it causes neoplasia of the urinary bladder and in some circumstances, of the upper gut. In addition, it has been shown to cause neoplasia in a wide range of tissues in many experimental species. The major carcinogen (and the cause of the retinal degeneration and the myeloid aplasia) has been shown to be ptaquiloside (PT), a norsesquiterpene glucoside that can be present in bracken in extraordinary concentrations, up to 13 000 ppm. The highest concentrations were found in the crosiers and young unfolding fronds. The mutagenicity, clastogenicity, teratogenicity and carcinogenicity have been convincingly demonstrated. Under alkaline conditions the loss of the glucose gives rise to the formation of a dienone intermediate which possesses a highly reactive cyclopropyl ring capable of reacting with cellular macromolecules. PT has been shown to alkylate DNA at N3 of adenines in the minor groove, preferentially in 5'-TAG and 3'-A in 5'-AA-3' sequences. It also alkylates N7 guanines in the major groove occurring in 5'-TG sequences. It is believed that these alkylations lead to mismatch repair and subsequent mutations in particular proto-oncogenes. Recently a rat model of carcinogenesis has been established using intravenously (iv) administered PT. Some epidemiological evidence has indicated higher risk of cancer in people who consume bracken crosiers, people who consume milk of cows feeding on bracken and those who live in bracken-infested areas. PT has been found in the milk of cows fed on bracken fern experimentally and the milk of bracken-fed cows has been shown to cause cancer in rats. PT carcinogenesis presents an excellent model of environmental and experimental carcinogenesis.
Fungal metabolites, PF1092 compounds and their derivatives, are nonsteroidal and selective progesterone receptor modulators.	The potential of new nonsteroidal progesterone receptor ligands, the derivatives of PF1092C ((4aR,5R,6R,7S)-6,7-dihydroxy-4a,5,6,7-tetrahydro-3,4a,5-trimethylnaphtho[2,3-b]furan-2(4H)-one) discovered from fungal metabolites, was evaluated. PF1092A ((4aR,5R,6R,7S)-6-acetoxy-7-hydroxy-4a,5,6,7-tetrahydro-3,4a,5-trimethylnaphtho[2,3-b]furan-2(4H)-one) showed good and moderate affinity for porcine and human progesterone receptors in in vitro receptor binding assays, respectively, and partial agonist activity for the progesterone receptor, as determined in assays of two types of progesterone-dependent enzymes in human mammary carcinoma T47D cells. The derivative of PF1092C, CP8481, ((4aR,5R,6R,7S)-6-(2-furancarbonyloxy)-7-hydroxy-4a,5,6,7-tetrahydro-3,4a,5-trimethylnaphtho[2,3-b]furan-2(4H)-one) possessed better affinity for both progesterone receptors and showed less cross-reactivity for other steroid receptors, such as rat androgen receptor, human glucocorticoid receptor, and human estrogen receptor, and was a more potent modulator of the progesterone receptor than PF1092A. CP8400 ((4aR,5R,6R,7S)-6,7-diacetoxy-4a,5,6,7-tetrahydro-3,4a,5-trimethylnaphtho[2,3-b]furan-2(4H)-one) and CP8401 ((4aR,5R,6R,7S)-6,7-dipropionyloxy-4a,5,6,7-tetrahydro-3,4a,5-trimethylnaphtho[2,3-b]furan-2(4H)-one), other derivatives, were indicated to be progesterone receptor antagonists. These results suggest that PF1092 compounds can serve as a new pharmacophore for potent and specific nonsteroidal progesterone receptor modulators.
Probing crucial metabolic pathways in fungal pathogens of crucifers: biotransformation of indole-3-acetaldoxime, 4-hydroxyphenylacetaldoxime, and their metabolites.	Indole-3-acetaldoxime is an intermediate of crucial importance in the biosynthesis of diverse plant secondary metabolites of Cruciferae. The metabolism of indole-3-acetaldoxime to indole-3-acetic acid via indole-3-acetonitrile by fungi that cause important plant diseases in crucifers, Leptosphaeria maculans (asexual stage Phoma lingam) causative agent of blackleg disease, Rhizoctonia solani causative agent of root rot disease, and Sclerotinia sclerotiorum causative agent of stem rot disease, is described. As well, the antifungal activity of indole-3-acetaldoxime and metabolites and the synthesis and biotransformation of 4-hydroxyphenylacetaldoxime by the same plant pathogens and by an insect fungal pathogen, Beauveria bassiana, are reported.
Evidence for differential folding of farnesyl pyrophosphate in the active site of aristolochene synthase: a single-point mutation converts aristolochene synthase into an (E)-beta-farnesene synthase.	Sesquiterpene cyclases, many of which share significant structural similarity, catalyze the cyclization reactions of the universal alicyclic precursor farnesyl pyrophosphate to produce more than 300 different hydrocarbon skeletons with high regio- and stereospecificity. The molecular basis of this exquisite specificity is not well-understood, but the conformation adopted by FPP in the active site of a sesquiterpene cyclase is thought to be an important determinant of the reaction pathway. Aristolochene synthase (AS) from Penicillium roqueforti catalyzes the cyclization of farnesyl pyrophosphate to the bicyclic sesquiterpene aristolochene. The X-ray structure of AS suggested that the steric bulk of residue 92 was central in binding of FPP to the active site of AS in a quasi-cyclic conformation, thereby facilitating attack of C1 by the C10-C11 double bond to produce the cis-fused Decalin S-germacrene A. We demonstrate here that reduction of the size of the side chain of residue 92 leads to the production of the alicyclic sesquiterpenes (E)-beta- and (E,E)-alpha-farnesene. The relative amounts of linear products formed depended linearly on the size of the residues at position 92. ASY92A, in which Tyr92 had been replaced with Ala, produced almost 80% of alicyclic sesquiterpenes, suggesting an energetic separation of less than 0.8 kcal/mol between the cyclic and noncyclic reaction pathways. A mechanism by which FPP binds to the mutant enzymes in an extended conformation is proposed to explain the altered selectivity. The mutants also produced small amounts of additional hydrocarbons with a molecular weight of 204, namely, alpha-selinene, beta-selinene, selina-4,11-diene, (E,Z)-alpha-farnesene, and beta-bisabolene. The production of (E)-beta-farnesene and beta-bisabolene suggested that the initial cyclization of FPP to germacrene A in AS proceeded in a stepwise fashion through farnesyl cation.
Development of natural product-derived receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors based on conservation of protein domain fold.	Receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) such as Tie-2, IGF1R, Her-2/Neu, EGFR, and VEGFR1-3 play crucial roles in the control of cell growth and differentiation. Inhibition of such RTKs has become a major focus of current anticancer drug development, and therefore the discovery of new classes of inhibitors for these signal-transducing proteins is of prime importance. We have recently proposed a novel concept for improving the hit-finding process by employing natural products as biologically validated starting points in structural space for compound library development. In this concept, natural products are regarded as evolutionary chosen ligands for protein domains which are structurally conserved yet genetically mobile. Here we report on the discovery of novel and highly selective VEGFR-2 and -3, Tie-2, and IGF1R inhibitors derived from the naturally occurring Her-2/Neu kinase inhibitor nakijiquinone C and developed on the basis of this concept. Based on the structure of the natural product, a small library (74 members) was synthesized and investigated for inhibition of kinases with highly similar ATP-binding domains. The library yielded inhibitors with IC(50)s in the low micromolar range with high frequency (7 out of 74). In particular, four inhibitors of Tie-2 were found, a kinase critically involved in the formation of new blood vessels from preexisting ones (angiogenesis) and believed to be a new promising target in antitumor therapy. These results support the "domain concept". To advance the development of improved inhibitors, extensive molecular modeling studies were undertaken, including the construction of new homology models for VEGFR-2 and Tie-2. These studies revealed residues in the kinase structure which are crucial to the development of tailor-made receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors.
In vitro isoprenylation and membrane association of mouse rod photoreceptor cGMP phosphodiesterase alpha and beta subunits expressed in bacteria.	We investigated the specificity of CAAX box-related isoprenylation of rod photoreceptor cGMP phosphodiesterase (PDE) subunits expressed in bacteria and the consequences of this modification on rod disk membrane association. Full-length cDNA sequences of the alpha and beta subunits of mouse PDE, inserted into bacterial pET expression vectors, were overexpressed as fusion proteins containing 28 (bMP-alpha) and 26 (bMP-beta) additional amino acid residues at their N termini. Both fusion proteins were overexpressed and stored in inclusion bodies. Purified bMP-alpha and bMP-beta were recognized by bovine PDE-specific polyclonal antibodies, but did not associate with depleted rod disk membranes and were catalytically inactive. Using bovine brain or retina extracts as sources of protein prenyltransferases and tritiated farnesyl- or geranylgeranylpyrophosphate as donors, bMP-alpha (CAAX sequence CCIQ) was exclusively farnesylated, and bMP-beta (CAAX sequence CCIL) was exclusively geranylgeranylated. After isoprenylation, bMP-alpha and bMP-beta each associated with rod photoreceptor outer segment disk membranes under isotonic, but not under hypotonic, conditions. The results indicate that isoprenylated bMP-alpha and bMP-beta each interact independently with membranes and that isoprenylation is the key modification that facilitates membrane association.
Substrate binding mode and reaction mechanism of undecaprenyl pyrophosphate synthase deduced from crystallographic studies.	Undecaprenyl pyrophosphate synthase (UPPs) catalyzes eight consecutive condensation reactions of farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP) with isopentenyl pyrophosphate (IPP) to form a 55-carbon long-chain product. We previously reported the crystal structure of the apo-enzyme from Escherichia coli and the structure of UPPs in complex with sulfate ions (resembling pyrophosphate of substrate), Mg(2+), and two Triton molecules (product-like). In the present study, FPP substrate was soaked into the UPPs crystals, and the complex structure was solved. Based on the crystal structure, the pyrophosphate head group of FPP is bound to the backbone NHs of Gly29 and Arg30 as well as the side chains of Asn28, Arg30, and Arg39 through hydrogen bonds. His43 is close to the C2 carbon of FPP and may stabilize the farnesyl cation intermediate during catalysis. The hydrocarbon moiety of FPP is bound with hydrophobic amino acids including Leu85, Leu88, and Phe89, located on the alpha3 helix. The binding mode of FPP in cis-type UPPs is apparently different from that of trans-type and many other prenyltransferases which utilize Asprich motifs for substrate binding via Mg(2+). The new structure provides a plausible mechanism for the catalysis of UPPs.
Inhibitory effects of 9-(4-thio-beta-D-ribo-pentofuranosyl)guanine on tumor growth and angiogenesis.	To find a nucleoside with anti-angiogenic activity, we tried to screen an active compound from our nucleoside library.
Didehydrofarnesyl diphosphate: an intrinsically fluorescent inhibitor of protein farnesyltransferase.	Didehydrofarnesyl diphosphate (delta delta FPP), a fluorescent pentaene analogue of farnesyl diphosphate (FPP), was synthesized using stereoselective Wittig reactions. Although delta delta FPP was not an alternative substrate for yeast protein farnesyltransferase (FTase), the fluorescent analogue was a potent competitive inhibitor with a K(i) value of 8.8 microM (K (m) (FPP) = 27 microM).
Lysine beta311 of protein geranylgeranyltransferase type I partially replaces magnesium.	Protein geranylgeranyltransferase type I (GGTase I) catalyzes the attachment of a geranylgeranyl lipid group near the carboxyl terminus of protein substrates. Unlike protein farnesyltransferase (FTase) and protein geranylgeranyltransferase type II, which require both Zn(II) and Mg(II) for maximal turnover, GGTase I turnover is dependent only on Zn(II). In FTase, the magnesium ion is coordinated by aspartate beta352 and the diphosphate of farnesyl diphosphate to stabilize the developing charge in the transition state (Pickett, J. S., Bowers, K. E., and Fierke, C. A. (2003) J. Biol. Chem. 278, 51243-51250). In GGTase I, lysine beta311 is substituted for this aspartate and is proposed to replace the catalytic function of Mg(II) (Taylor, J. S., Reid, T. S., Terry, K. L., Casey, P. J., and Beese, L. S. (2003) EMBO J. 22, 5963-5974). Here we demonstrate that the prenylation rate constant catalyzed by wild type GGTase I (k(chem) = 0.18 +/- 0.02 s(-1)) is not dependent on Mg(II), is approximately 20-fold slower than the maximal rate constant catalyzed by FTase, and has a single pKa of 6.4 +/- 0.1, likely reflecting deprotonation of the peptide thiol. Mutation of lysine beta311 in GGTase I to alanine (Kbeta311A) or aspartate (Kbeta311D) decreases the k(chem) in the absence of magnesium 9-41-fold without significantly affecting the binding affinity of either substrate. Furthermore, the geranylgeranylation rate constant is enhanced by the addition of Mg(II) for Kbeta311A and Kbeta311D GGTase I 2-5-fold compared with wild type GGTase I with K(Mg) of 140 +/- 10 mm and 6.4 +/- 0.8 mm, respectively. These results demonstrate that lysine beta311 of GGTase I partially replaces the catalytic function of Mg(II) observed in FTase.
Light- and singlet oxygen-mediated antifungal activity of phenylphenalenone phytoalexins.	The light-induced singlet oxygen production and antifungal activity of phenylphenalenone phytoalexins isolated from infected banana plants (Musa acuminata) are reported. Upon absorption of light energy all studied phenylphenalenones sensitise the production of singlet oxygen in polar and non-polar media. Antifungal activity of these compounds towards Fusarium oxysporum is enhanced in the presence of light. These results, together with the correlation of IC50 values under illumination with the quantum yield of singlet oxygen production and the enhancing effect of D2O on the antifungal activity, suggest the intermediacy of singlet oxygen produced by electronic excitation of the phenylphenalenone phytoalexins.
Induction of apoptosis by ar-turmerone on various cell lines.	This study investigated the cytotoxic effect of ar-turmerone isolated from turmeric (Curcuma longa L) on the K562, L1210, U937 and RBL-2H3 cell lines by the MTT assay. Ar-turmerone exhibited potent cytotoxicity on these cancer cell lines. The IC50 values of ar-turmerone on these cell lines were 20-50 microg/ml. They showed an increased inhibition ratio on cell viability according to the drug concentration < or = 80 microg/ml in the cell lines tested. The DNA fragmentation that is a characteristic of apoptosis due to ar-turmerone occurred in a concentration- and time-dependent manner in the K562, L1210, U937 and RBL-2H3 cancer cell lines. These results suggest that ar-turmerone can induce the apoptotic activity in the K562, L1210, U937 and RBL-2H3 cells.
Characterization of the active site and insight into the binding mode of the anti-angiogenesis agent fumagillin to the manganese(II)-loaded methionyl aminopeptidase from Escherichia coli.	EPR spectra were recorded for methionine aminopeptidase from Escherichia coli (EcMetAP-I) samples (approximately 2.5 mM) to which one and two equivalents of Mn(II) were added (the latter is referred to as [MnMn(EcMetAP-I)]). The spectra for each sample were indistinguishable except that the spectrum of [MnMn(EcMetAP-I)] was twice as intense. The EPR spectrum of [MnMn(EcMetAP-I)] exhibited the characteristic six-line g approximately 2 EPR signal of mononuclear Mn(II) with A(av)((55)Mn)=9.3 mT (93 G) and exhibited Curie-law temperature dependence. This signal is typical of Mn(II) in a ligand sphere comprising oxygen and/or nitrogen atoms. Other features in the spectrum were observed only as the temperature was raised from that of liquid helium. The temperature dependences of these features are consistent with their assignment to excited state transitions in the S=1, 2 ... 5 non-Kramer's doublets, due to two antiferromagnetically coupled Mn(II) ions with an S=0 ground state. This assignment is supported by the observation of a characteristic 4.5 mT hyperfine pattern, and by the presence of signals in the parallel mode consistent with a non-Kramers' spin ladder. Upon the addition of the anti-angiogenesis agent fumagillin to [MnMn(EcMetAP-I)], very small changes were observed in the EPR spectrum. MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry indicated that fumagillin was, however, covalently coordinated to EcMetAP-I. Therefore, the inhibitory action of this anti-angiogenesis agent on EcMetAP-I appears to involve covalent binding to a polypeptide component at or near the active site rather than direct binding to the metal ions.
Hypoxia-induced neutrophil survival is mediated by HIF-1alpha-dependent NF-kappaB activity.	Neutrophils are key effector cells of the innate immune response and are required to migrate and function within adverse microenvironmental conditions. These inflammatory sites are characterized by low levels of oxygen and glucose and high levels of reductive metabolites. A major regulator of neutrophil functional longevity is the ability of these cells to undergo apoptosis. We examined the mechanism by which hypoxia causes an inhibition of neutrophil apoptosis in human and murine neutrophils. We show that neutrophils possess the hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1alpha and factor inhibiting HIF (FIH) hydroxylase oxygen-sensing pathway and using HIF-1alpha-deficient myeloid cells demonstrate that HIF-1alpha is directly involved in regulating neutrophil survival in hypoxia. Gene array, TaqMan PCR, Western blotting, and oligonucleotide binding assays identify NF-kappaB as a novel hypoxia-regulated and HIF-dependent target, with inhibition of NF-kappaB by gliotoxin or parthenolide resulting in the abrogation of hypoxic survival. In addition, we identify macrophage inflammatory protein-1beta as a novel hypoxia-induced neutrophil survival factor.
Minodronic acid hydrate as a new therapeutic agent for osteoporosis]	Minodronic acid hydrate is one of the new-generation bisphosphonates containing nitrogen. The drug has an inhibitory effect on bone resorption by suppressing the osteoclastic function. Minodronic acid hydrate is being developed as a therapeutic drug of osteoporosis. In non-clinical study, the inhibitory effect of minodronic acid hydrate on the decrease in the bone mineral density and on the reduction in the bone intensity in ovariectomized rat osteoporosis models. The results of the clinical studies conducted so far showed that minodronic acid hydrate administered once daily for 36 weeks increases the bone mineral density of lumbar spine (L2-4BMD) significantly compared to the placebo group. It was speculated that minodronic acid hydrate has an increasing effect on the bone mineral density that is at least equivalent to that of alendronate and risedronate. It was also expected that the incidence of digestive diseases with minodronic acid hydrate is lower than that with the existing bisphosphonates. At the moment, the Phase III study is being conducted. We expect that minodronic acid hydrate is used for a number of patients with osteoporosis as a potent and safe domestic bisphosphonate in the near future.
Regulation of rubber biosynthetic rate and molecular weight in Hevea brasiliensis by metal cofactor.	Metal ion cofactors are necessary for prenyltransferase enzymes. Magnesium and manganese can be used as metal ion cofactor by rubber transferase (a cis-prenyltransferase) associated with purified rubber particles. The rubber initiation rate, biosynthetic rate, and molecular weight produced in vitro from Hevea brasiliensis rubber transferase is regulated by metal ion concentration. In addition, varies significantly with [Mg(2+)]. decreases from 8000 +/- 600 microM at [Mg(2+)] = 4 mM to 68 +/- 10 microM at [Mg(2+)] = 8 mM and increases back to 970 +/- 70 microM at [Mg(2+)] = 30 mM. The highest affinity of rubber transferase for IPP.Mg occurred when [Mg(2+)] = A(max) (metal concentration that gives highest IPP incorporation rate). A metal ion is required for rubber biosynthesis, but an excess of metal ions interacts with the rubber transferase inhibiting its activity. The results suggest that H. brasiliensis could use [Mg(2+)] as a regulatory mechanism for rubber biosynthesis and molecular weight in vivo.
Octosporea bayeri: fumidil B inhibits vertical transmission in Daphnia magna.	Microsporidia are a highly successful and ecologically diverse group of parasites, and thus represent interesting model systems for research on host-parasite interactions. However, such research often requires the ability to cure hosts of infections, a difficult task, given the short lifespan of most invertebrates and the efficient vertical transmission of some parasites. To our knowledge, few treatments are available to cure microsporidiosis in invertebrate hosts, and protocols have not yet been developed to inhibit vertical transmission and thereby cure host lines. We present a protocol for inhibiting vertical transmission of the microsporidian parasite Octosporea bayeri in the freshwater crustacean Daphnia magna. We used 100 mg/L Fumidil B dissolved in the culture medium of the host. This technique allowed Daphnia to survive and reproduce and inhibited vertical transmission of the parasite. The method presented here may be of general interest for other aquatic host-parasite systems involving microsporidia.
The parasitophorous vacuole membrane of Encephalitozoon cuniculi lacks host cell membrane proteins immediately after invasion.	Microsporidia of the genus Encephalitozoon develop inside a parasitophorous vacuole (PV) of unknown origin. Using colocalization studies, the PV was found to be absent from the endocytic pathway markers early endosomal autoantigen 1, transferrin receptor, and lysosome-associated membrane protein 1 and for the endoplasmic reticulum marker calnexin. The nonfusiogenic characteristic of the PV appears to be acquired as early as 1 min postinfection and is not reversed by drug treatment with albendazole or fumagillin.
Steady-state kinetic mechanism of Ras farnesyl:protein transferase.	The steady-state kinetic mechanism of bovine brain farnesyl:protein transferase (FPTase) has been determined using a series of initial velocity studies, including both dead-end substrate and product inhibitor experiments. Reciprocal plots of the initial velocity data intersected on the 1/[s] axis, indicating that a ternary complex forms (sequential mechanism) and suggesting that the binding of one substrate does not affect the binding of the other. The order of substrate addition was probed by determining the patterns of dead-end substrate and product inhibition. Two nonhydrolyzable analogues of farnesyl diphosphate, (alpha-hydroxyfarnesyl)phosphonic acid (1) and [[(farnesylmethyl)hydroxyphosphinyl]methyl]phosphonic acid (2), were both shown to be competitive inhibitors of farnesyl diphosphate and noncompetitive inhibitors of Ras-CVLS. Four nonsubstrate tetrapeptides, CV[D-L]S, CVLS-NH2, N-acetyl-L-penicillamine-VIM, and CIFM, were all shown to be noncompetitive inhibitors of farnesyl diphosphate and competitive inhibitors of Ras-CVLS. These data are consistent with random order of substrate addition. Product inhibition patterns corroborated the results found with the dead-end substrate inhibitors. We conclude that bovine brain FPTase proceeds through a random order sequential mechanism. Determination of steady-state parameters for several physiological Ras-CaaX variants showed that amino acid changes affected the values of KM, but not those of kcat, suggesting that the catalytic efficiencies (kcat/KM) of Ras-CaaX substrates depend largely upon their relative binding affinity for FPTase.
Feedback inhibition of polyisoprenyl pyrophosphate synthesis from mevalonate in vitro. Implications for protein prenylation.	The prenylation of proteins utilizes the polyisoprenyl pyrophosphates (FPP) and geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate (GGPP) as prenyl donors. These polyisoprenoids are also precursors to ubiquinone and dolichol synthesis. We have previously described the geranylgeranylation of rab 1b from labeled mevalonate in rabbit reticulocyte lysates (Khosravi-Far, R., Lutz, R. J., Cox, A. D., Conroy, L., Bourne, J. R., Sinensky, M., Balch, W. E., Buss, J. C., and Der, C. J. (1991) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 88, 6264-6268). We now directly demonstrate the incorporation of mevalonate into FPP and GGPP in rabbit reticulocyte cytosol. High pressure liquid chromatography analysis reveals that only all-trans-E,E,E-GGPP, the prenyl donor for in vivo protein geranylgeranylation, is synthesized. Incubations with recombinant H-ras and rab1b result in an increased synthesis of farnesyl and geranylgeranyl derivatives, respectively. The increase is wholly accounted for by protein-incorporated polyisoprenoids with no change in the polyisoprenyl pyrophosphate pools. Further, GGPP inhibits its own synthesis, without affecting FPP synthesis, with half-maximal inhibition at approximately 3 microM GGPP. Inhibition of FPP synthesis by the inhibition of isopentenyl isomerase causes a dramatic increase in isopentenyl pyrophosphate synthesis. FPP also inhibits conversion of mevalonate into FPP. These findings indicate that these polyisoprenyl pyrophosphates can down-regulate their own synthesis in vitro, and this regulation may control the levels of these polyisoprenoids in vivo.
Antiangiogenic agents: studies on fumagillin and curcumin analogs.	Cancer is a general term used to describe many disease states, each of which are characterized by abnormal cell proliferation. The causes which bring about this abnormal cellular behavior are specific to each type of cancer. The success of tumor-targeted therapy is limited by this diversity. One common denominator for all types of cancer is the requirement of a suitable blood supply. Therefore, tumor vasculature has emerged as a potential target for therapeutic intervention. New blood vessel growth from preexisting vasculature stimulated by biochemical signals is termed angiogenesis. Tumor masses require a constant supply of oxygen and nutrients, and a means of efficient waste removal to ensure sustained development. Diffusion from nearby capillaries can supply adequate nutrition for tumors less than 2 mm in size, but for continued growth the tumors must develop their own blood supply. Alteration of the delicate balance of angiogenic stimulating factors and angiogenic inhibitors results in the phenotypic change from quiescence to active endothelial proliferation. To date, this angiogenic switch is not completely understood. The goal of antiangiogenic therapy is to interfere with these mechanisms and prevent tumor cells from developing a viable blood supply. Fumagillin is a naturally occurring antifungal agent. Curcumin is a natural product isolated from the spice turmeric. Both compounds have been shown to have antiangiogenic properties in vitro and in vivo. This paper describes efforts to design and prepare fumagillin and curcumin analogs and evaluate their corresponding antiangiogenic activities.
Cruciferous phytoalexins: antiproliferative effects in T-Jurkat leukemic cells.	We tested antiproliferative activity of selected cruciferous phytoalexins including brassinin, 1-methoxybrassinin, (+/-)-spirobrassin, (+/-)-1-methoxyspirobrassinin and (+/-)-1-methoxyspirobrassinol, in leukemic Jurkat cell. The most effective of the tested phytoalexins was 1-methoxybrassinin with IC(50) 10 micromol l(-1). However, significant effect of all phytoalexines was also determined at concentration 1 micromol l(-1). In 1-methoxybrassinin-treated Jurkat cells, we found significant increase in the fraction of cells with a sub-G(0)/G(1) DNA content, which is considered to be a marker of cell death by apoptosis. Apoptosis was also confirmed by the annexin V staining. In summary, 1-methoxybrassinin exerted potent antiproliferative activity probably due to cell cycle arrest and apoptosis induction.
Concise syntheses of the cruciferous phytoalexins brassilexin, sinalexin, wasalexins, and analogues: expanding the scope of the vilsmeier formylation.	Efficient syntheses of the phytoalexins brassilexin, sinalexin, and analogues are demonstrated through the application of the Vilsmeier formylation to indoline-2-thiones followed by a new aqueous ammonia workup procedure. Similarly, a very concise two-pot synthesis of the phytoalexins wasalexins using sequential formylation-amination of indolin-2-ones is described. Remarkably, this novel aqueous ammonia workup allows the sequential one-pot formylation-amination, expanding substantially the scope of the Vilsmeier formylation of both indoline-2-thiones and indolin-2-ones. The examination of the formylation-amination reaction and optimization of conditions, as well as the syntheses and antifungal activities of several brassilexin analogues, are reported.
Binding model construction of antifungal 2-aryl-4-chromanones using CoMFA, CoMSIA, and QSAR analyses.	Flavonoids, generated by plants upon attack by a range of pathogens, are demonstrated to have a role in biotic and abiotic stress response phenomena in plants, and there is increasing evidence for the antibacterial, antifungal, and antiviral activities of these compounds. Using the bioisosterism strategy, a series of 2-aryl-4-chromanone derivatives based upon the structure of flavanones, a kind of flavonoid phytoalexins, were synthesized and tested for the antifungal activity against Pyricularia grisea, which have been reported in our previous papers. To further explore the comprehensive structure-activity relationship and construct the binding model for the antifungal compounds, two kinds of molecular field analysis techniques, comparative molecular field analysis (CoMFA) and comparative molecular similarity indices analysis (CoMSIA), were performed following a Hansch-Fujita QSAR study. Superimpositions were performed using three alignment rules, that is, centroid-based alignment, common substructure-based alignment, and field fit alignment, and statistically reliable models with good predictive power (CoMFA r(2) = 0.952, q(2) = 0.727; CoMSIA r(2) = 0.965, q(2) = 0.751) were achieved on the basis of the common substructure-based alignment. The combined results of CoMFA, CoMSIA, and former Hansch-Fujita QSAR analyses resulted in comprehensive understanding about the structure-activity relationships, which led to this construction of a plausible binding model of the title compounds.
Crystal structures of undecaprenyl pyrophosphate synthase in complex with magnesium, isopentenyl pyrophosphate, and farnesyl thiopyrophosphate: roles of the metal ion and conserved residues in catalysis.	Undecaprenyl pyrophosphate synthase (UPPs) catalyzes the consecutive condensation reactions of a farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP) with eight isopentenyl pyrophosphates (IPP), in which new cis-double bonds are formed, to generate undecaprenyl pyrophosphate that serves as a lipid carrier for peptidoglycan synthesis of bacterial cell wall. The structures of Escherichia coli UPPs were determined previously in an orthorhombic crystal form as an apoenzyme, in complex with Mg(2+)/sulfate/Triton, and with bound FPP. In a further search of its catalytic mechanism, the wild-type UPPs and the D26A mutant are crystallized in a new trigonal unit cell with Mg(2+)/IPP/farnesyl thiopyrophosphate (an FPP analogue) bound to the active site. In the wild-type enzyme, Mg(2+) is coordinated by the pyrophosphate of farnesyl thiopyrophosphate, the carboxylate of Asp(26), and three water molecules. In the mutant enzyme, it is bound to the pyrophosphate of IPP. The [Mg(2+)] dependence of the catalytic rate by UPPs shows that the activity is maximal at [Mg(2+)] = 1 mm but drops significantly when Mg(2+) ions are in excess (50 mm). Without Mg(2+), IPP binds to UPPs only at high concentration. Mutation of Asp(26) to other charged amino acids results in significant decrease of the UPPs activity. The role of Asp(26) is probably to assist the migration of Mg(2+) from IPP to FPP and thus initiate the condensation reaction by ionization of the pyrophosphate group from FPP. Other conserved residues, including His(43), Ser(71), Asn(74), and Arg(77), may serve as general acid/base and pyrophosphate carrier. Our results here improve the understanding of the UPPs enzyme reaction significantly.
Regulation of macrophage cholesterol efflux through hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA reductase inhibition: a role for RhoA in ABCA1-mediated cholesterol efflux.	The cholesterol biosynthetic pathway produces numerous signaling molecules. Oxysterols through liver X receptor (LXR) activation regulate cholesterol efflux, whereas the non-sterol mevalonate metabolite, geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate (GGPP), was recently demonstrated to inhibit ABCA1 expression directly, through antagonism of LXR and indirectly through enhanced RhoA geranylgeranylation. We used HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) to test the hypothesis that reduced synthesis of mevalonate metabolites would enhance cholesterol efflux and attenuate foam cell formation. Preincubation of THP-1 macrophages with atorvastatin, dose dependently (1-10 microm) stimulated cholesterol efflux to apolipoprotein AI (apoAI, 10-60%, p < 0.05) and high density lipoprotein (HDL(3)) (2-50%, p < 0.05), despite a significant decrease in cholesterol synthesis (2-90%). Atorvastatin also increased ABCA1 and ABCG1 mRNA abundance (30 and 35%, p < 0.05). Addition of mevalonate, GGPP or farnesyl pyrophosphate completely blocked the statin-induced increase in ABCA1 expression and apoAI-mediated cholesterol efflux. A role for RhoA was established, because two inhibitors of Rho protein activity, a geranylgeranyl transferase inhibitor and C3 exoenzyme, increased cholesterol efflux to apoAI (20-35%, p < 0.05), and macrophage expression of dominant-negative RhoA enhanced cholesterol efflux to apoAI (20%, p < 0.05). In addition, atorvastatin increased the RhoA levels in the cytosol fraction and decreased the membrane localization of RhoA. Atorvastatin treatment activated peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma and increased LXR-mediated gene expression suggesting that atorvastatin induces cholesterol efflux through a molecular cascade involving inhibition of RhoA signaling, leading to increased peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma activity, enhanced LXR activation, increased ABCA1 expression, and cholesterol efflux. Finally, statin treatment inhibited cholesteryl ester accumulation in macrophages challenged with atherogenic hypertriglyceridemic very low density lipoproteins indicating that statins can regulate foam cell formation.
Directed library of anilinogeranyl analogues of farnesyl diphosphate via mixed solid- and solution-phase synthesis.	[reaction: see text]. A directed library of anilinogeranyl diphosphate analogues of the isoprenoid farnesyl diphosphate has been prepared by solid-phase organic synthesis using a traceless linker strategy in moderate yield in three steps: reductive amination, bromination, and treatment with ((n-Bu)4N)3HP2O7.
The rice (Oryza sativa) blast lesion mimic mutant, blm, may confer resistance to blast pathogens by triggering multiple defense-associated signaling pathways.	Here we characterized a rice (Oryza sativa L.) blast lesion mimic (blm) mutant, identified previously in an N-methyl-N-nitrosourea-mutagenized population of the cultivar Hwacheong (wild type). The rice blm displayed spontaneous necrotic lesion formation on the leaves during development under long-day condition and temperature shift from 28 to 24 degrees C in the absence of obvious stress/disease, and provided us with a highly reproducible and convenient experimental system in the growth chamber to study blm. The blm phenotype resembled to the cell death of hypersensitive reaction (HR), and subsequent, two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DGE) revealed induction of many leaf proteins; prominent among them were the three pathogenesis-related (PR) marker proteins of class 5 (one spot) and 10 (two spots). Interestingly, the rice blm manifested HR against all races tested of the rice blast fungus (Magnaporthe grisea), providing high resistance in a non-race specific manner. It was also observed that blm was highly resistant to hydrogen peroxide treatment. Using 2-DGE immunoblotting, we identified the presence of 4 new spots cross-reacting with a superoxide dismutase (SOD) antibody, only in blm, suggesting the expression of potentially new SOD protein (isoforms) during lesion formation. In the leaves of blm, autofluorescent compounds accumulated in and around the site of lesion progression. Moreover, enhanced levels of two major rice phytoalexins, sakuranetin and momilactone A were also observed in the leaves of blm. These results indicate that blm confers broad-spectrum resistance to multiple pathogens, and so, it could be hypothesized that the BLM gene product may control the HR-like cell death and its associated multiple defense signaling pathways, as evidenced by induction of known hallmark features (proteins/metabolites) linked with the defense responses, in rice.
Nucleotide sequence of the ERG12 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae encoding mevalonate kinase.	The nucleotide sequence of the ERG12 gene, encoding mevalonate kinase, from Saccharomyces cerevisiae is presented. The longest open reading frame may code for a protein containing 443 amino acids with a deduced relative molecular mass of 48,500. The analysis of the nucleotide sequence reveals a complete identity with the yeast gene RAR1, isolated elsewhere by complementation of a rar1 mutation involved in the stability of plasmids with weak ARS. In addition, we show that mevalonate kinase is not a rate-limiting enzyme; however its sensitivity to FFP could be a key regulatory mechanism in the sterol pathway of yeast.
The phytoalexins from cauliflower, caulilexins A, B and C: isolation, structure determination, syntheses and antifungal activity.	Our continuous search for phytoalexins from crucifers led us to examine phytoalexin production in florets of cauliflower (Brassica oleracea var. botrytis) under abiotic (UV light) elicitation. Four known (isalexin, S-(-)-spirobrassinin, 1-methoxybrassitin, brassicanal C) and three new (caulilexins A-C) phytoalexins were isolated. The syntheses and antifungal activity of caulilexins A-C against the economically important pathogenic fungi Leptosphaeria maculans, Rhizoctonia solani and Sclerotinia sclerotiorum, and the first synthesis of brassicanal C are reported.
Characterization of a rice gene family encoding type-A diterpene cyclases.	We have previously isolated and characterized the rice (Oryza sativa) cDNAs, OsCyc1/OsCPS4, OsCyc2/OsCPS2, OsKS4, OsDTC1/OsKS7, OsDTC2/OsKS8 and OsKS10, which encode cyclases that are responsible for diterpene phytoalexin biosynthesis. Among the other members of this gene family, OsCPS1 and OsKS1 have been suggested as being responsible for gibberellin biosynthesis, OsKSL11 has recently been shown to encode stemodene synthase, and the functions of the three other diterpene cyclase genes in the rice genome, OsKS3, OsKS5 and OsKS6, have not yet been determined. In this study, we show that recombinant OsKS5 and OsKS6 expressed in E. coli converted ent-copalyl diphosphate into ent-pimara-8(14),15-diene and ent-kaur-15-ene, respectively. Neither product is a hydrocarbon precursor required in the biosynthesis of either gibberellins or phytoalexins. OsKS3 may be a pseudogene from which the translated product is a truncated enzyme. These results suggest that the diterpene cyclase genes responsible for gibberellin and phytoalexin biosynthesis are not functionally redundant.
Calcium in plant defence-signalling pathways.	In plant cells, the calcium ion is a ubiquitous intracellular second messenger involved in numerous signalling pathways. Variations in the cytosolic concentration of Ca2+ ([Ca2+]cyt) couple a large array of signals and responses. Here we concentrate on calcium signalling in plant defence responses, particularly on the generation of the calcium signal and downstream calcium-dependent events participating in the establishment of defence responses with special reference to calcium-binding proteins.
Resveratrol, a polyphenolic phytoalexin attenuates thermal hyperalgesia and cold allodynia in STZ-induced diabetic rats.	The effects of resveratrol, a polyphenolic phytoalexin present in red wine have been investigated on hyperalgesia and cold allodynia in streptozotocin (STZ) induced diabetic rats. Diabetes was induced by a single intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin (65mg/kg). After 4-weeks of STZ injection, diabetic rats exhibited a significant thermal hyperalgesia and cold allodynia along with increased plasma glucose and decreased body weights as compared with controls rats. Chronic treatment with resveratrol (10mg/kg orally) from week 4 to week 6 significantly attenuated the cold allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia. The results emphasize the role of oxidative stress in development of hyperalgesia and cold allodynia in diabetic animals and point towards the potential of resveratrol as an adjuvant therapy for the prevention and treatment of diabetic neuropathy.
Chamazulene carboxylic acid and matricin: a natural profen and its natural prodrug, identified through similarity to synthetic drug substances.	Chamazulene carboxylic acid (1) is a natural profen with anti-inflammatory activity and a degradation product of proazulenic sesquiterpene lactones, e.g., matricin. Both 1 and proazulenes occur in chamomile (Matricaria recutita), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), and a few other Asteraceae species. It was isolated in improved yields, characterized physicochemically, and found to be an inhibitor of cyclooxygenase-2, but not of cyclooxygenase-1. It had anti-inflammatory activity in several animal models with local and systemic application. When human volunteers were given matricin orally, plasma levels of 1 were found to be in the micromolar range. Matricin was converted to 1 in artificial gastric fluid, but not in artificial intestinal fluid. Matricin and the yarrow proazulenes are proposed to be anti-inflammatory through conversion to 1. Intriguingly, the biological activity of the natural compound 1 was found because of its similarity to fully synthetic drug substances. This is the reverse process of the common lead function of natural compounds in drug discovery.
Isolation and molecular characterization of a Spotted leaf 18 mutant by modified activation-tagging in rice.	A lesion mimic mutant that we designated Spotted leaf 18 (Spl18) was isolated from 13,000 activation-tagging lines of rice produced by our modified activation-tagging vector and further characterized. Spl18 was dominant and its phenotype was linked to the T-DNA insertion. An ORF was located about 500 bp downstream of the inserted T-DNA, and the deduced protein, designated OsAT1, showed sequence similarity to an acyltransferase whose expression is induced by hypersensitive reaction in tobacco. The transcriptional level of OsAT1 was very low in the WT leaf blade but high in Spl18 leaf blade. In wild-type rice, OsAT1 was transcribed mainly in the young panicle, in the panicle just after heading, and in the leaf sheath. In addition, transcription of the genes for PR protein was upregulated in Spl18, accumulation of phytoalexins (both momilactone A and sakuranetin) was increased, and resistance to blast disease was improved. We then combined OsAT1 genomic DNA downstream of the modified 35S promoter and re-transformed it into rice. Lesion mimic and blast resistance phenotypes were detected in the transgenic lines produced, clearly indicating that overexpression of OsAT1 caused the Spl18 phenotypes. In addition, plants overexpressing OsAT1 showed resistance to bacterial blight.
Interrelationship of phytoalexin production and disease resistance in selected peanut genotypes.	In peanuts, a mechanism of resistance to fungal infection is reportedly due to the synthesis of stilbene phytoalexins, which are antibiotic, low molecular weight metabolites. The phytoalexin-associated response of different peanut genotypes to exogenous invasion in the field has not been investigated and may be useful for breeding resistant peanut cultivars. Five peanut genotypes, Georgia Green, Tifton 8, C-99R, GK-7 High Oleic, and MARC I, which differ in resistance to major peanut diseases, were investigated for their ability to produce phytoalexins under field conditions in South Georgia in 2001 and 2002. Five known peanut phytoalexins, trans-resveratrol, trans-arachidin-1, trans-arachidin-2, trans-arachidin-3, and trans-3'-isopentadienyl-3,5,4'-trihydroxystilbene, were quantitated. The phytoalexins were measured in peanuts of different pod maturity (yellow, orange, brown, and black) with or without insect pod damage (externally scarified or penetrated). Kernels from insect-damaged pods of C-99R and Tifton 8 genotypes had significantly higher concentrations of phytoalexins than other genotypes. The same genotypes were the most resistant to tomato spotted wilt virus and late leaf spot, while MARC I, which is highly susceptible to these diseases, produced very low concentrations of phytoalexins. However, there was no significant difference in phytoalexin production by undamaged peanut pods of all tested genotypes. trans-Arachidin-3 and trans-resveratrol were the major phytoalexins produced by insect-damaged peanuts. In damaged seeds, the concentrations of trans-3'-isopentadienyl-3,5,4'-trihydroxystilbene were significantly higher in Tifton 8 as compared to other genotypes. There was an association between total phytoalexin production and published genotype resistance to major peanut diseases. Stilbene phytoalexins may be considered potential chemical markers in breeding programs for disease-resistant peanuts.
Two host-induced Ralstonia solanacearum genes, acrA and dinF, encode multidrug efflux pumps and contribute to bacterial wilt virulence.	Multidrug efflux pumps (MDRs) are hypothesized to protect pathogenic bacteria from toxic host defense compounds. We created mutations in the Ralstonia solanacearum acrA and dinF genes, which encode putative MDRs in the broad-host-range plant pathogen. Both mutations reduced the ability of R. solanacearum to grow in the presence of various toxic compounds, including antibiotics, phytoalexins, and detergents. Both acrAB and dinF mutants were significantly less virulent on the tomato plant than the wild-type strain. Complementation restored near-wild-type levels of virulence to both mutants. Addition of either dinF or acrAB to Escherichia coli MDR mutants KAM3 and KAM32 restored the resistance of these strains to several toxins, demonstrating that the R. solanacearum genes can function heterologously to complement known MDR mutations. Toxic and DNA-damaging compounds induced expression of acrA and dinF, as did growth in both susceptible and resistant tomato plants. Carbon limitation also increased expression of acrA and dinF, while the stress-related sigma factor RpoS was required at a high cell density (>10(7) CFU/ml) to obtain wild-type levels of acrA expression both in minimal medium and in planta. The type III secretion system regulator HrpB negatively regulated dinF expression in culture at high cell densities. Together, these results show that acrAB and dinF encode MDRs in R. solanacearum and that they contribute to the overall aggressiveness of this phytopathogen, probably by protecting the bacterium from the toxic effects of host antimicrobial compounds.
Induction of phytoalexins biosynthesis in orange fruit by the biocontrol yeast Rhodotorula glutinis.	The biocontrol yeast Rhodotorula glutinis, isolate 21A, obtained from tomato fruit was used to control Penicillium digitatum, P. italicum and Botrytis cinerea on artificially wounded citrus fruit. Orange and satsuma mandarin fruit were treated with the biocontrol yeast, inoculated with the pathogens and stored for 7 days at 23 degrees C. On orange fruit the antagonist compared to the control reduced decay by 92.2, 88.4 and 96.2% for P. digitatum, P. italicum and B. cinerea, respectively. On satsuma mandarin fruit the same pathogens were inhibited by 96.2, 91.2 and 90.0%, respectively. Scanning electron microscope observations, focusing on the antagonist-pathogen interactions, revealed a fast colonization of the growing fungal mycelia by the yeast cells, but no sign of lytic activity on hyphae was observed. Moreover, the fruit accumulated the phytoalexins scoparone and scopoletin into artificial wounds previously treated by the yeast and either inoculated or uninoculated with the pathogen. The concentration of scoparone, which showed higher accumulation in fruit tissues, varied significantly in relation to the time lag between the application of the antagonist and the inoculation with the pathogen. In particular, the concentration of scoparone 4 days after application of the sole yeast was 69.0 microg x g(-1) fresh weight (FW), 6.3 times higher than in the uninoculated wounded tissues (11.0 microg x g(-1) FW). The phytoalexin accumulation was low (13.0 microg x g(-1)FW) applying the yeast jointly with P. digitatum into wounds, while it increased consistently (74.0 microg x g(-1)FW) when the antagonist was applied 24 h before the pathogen.
New dimeric compounds of avenanthramide phytoalexin in oats.	Avenanthramide B is an oat phytoalexin produced in response to pathogen attack and elicitation. We found the formation of new dimers (1-5) of avenanthramide B in elicited oat leaves. The dimers were synthesized by a reaction of peroxidase and avenanthramide B in the presence of hydrogen peroxide. The structures of 1-5 were determined by spectroscopic analyses, chemical derivatization, and 15N labeling. Compound 1 was a dehydrodimer of avenanthramide B with a bisbutane lactam skeleton, while 2-4 were monohydrated dehydrodimers with butane lactam structures. Compound 5 was also a monohydrated dehydrodimer but with a tetrahydrofuran structure. All the compounds were classified into lignanamides that were formed by an 8'-8' coupling reaction between two avenanthramide B units.
Different types of microsomal enzymes catalyze ortho- or para-hydroxylation in the biosynthesis of carnation phytoalexins.	Cell suspension cultures of carnation (Dianthus caryophyllus L.) accumulate, upon challenge with crude fungal elicitor, various dianthramide phytoalexins, all of which derive from N-benzoylanthranilate. In vitro, microsomes from the elicited carnation cells hydroxylated N-benzoylanthranilate in the 4- and/or 2'-positions to yield the hydroxyanthranilate and/or salicyloyl derivatives. 2'-Hydroxylation was shown to precede 4-hydroxylation in the formation of N-salicyloyl-4-hydroxyanthranilate, and both these activities depended strictly on NADPH and molecular oxygen. 4-Hydroxylation was shown to be catalyzed by cytochrome P-450-dependent monooxygenase(s), whereas the 2'-hydroxylating activity appeared to be due to a novel class of enzymes, also responding synergistically to NADH in combination with NADPH and showing apparent inhibition by cytochrome c but not by carbon monoxide. The difference in type of 4- and 2'-hydroxylases was corroborated by the exclusive inhibition of either activity in imidazole vs. MOPS buffers as well as their differential heat sensitivities. In the course of these studies, low concentrations of N-salicyloylanthranilate turned out to inhibit the cytochrome P-450-dependent 4-hydroxylation more strongly than any of the commercial inhibitor chemicals tested, while neither the substrate, N-benzoylanthranilate, nor the final product, N-salicyloyl-4-hydroxyanthranilate, exhibited such significant inhibition. In addition, 2'-hydroxylation activity was affected much less by N-benzoylanthranilate, N-salicyloylanthranilate or by inhibitor chemicals. The results demonstrate the requirement of two different classes of hydroxylase activities that appear to introduce the antimycotic quality to the dianthramides for phytoalexin defense.
Induced plant responses to pathogen attack. Analysis and heterologous expression of the key enzyme in the biosynthesis of phytoalexins in soybean (Glycine max L. Merr. cv. Harosoy 63).	In soybean (Glycine max L.), pathogen attack induces the formation of glyceollin-type phytoalexins. The biosynthetic key enzyme is a reductase which synthesizes 4,2', 4'-trihydroxychalcone in co-action with chalcone synthase. Screening of a soybean cDNA library from elicitor-induced RNA in lambda gt11 yielded two classes of reductase-specific clones. The deduced proteins match to 100% and 95%, respectively, with 229 amino acids sequenced in the purified plant protein. Four clones of class A were expressed in Escherichia coli, and the proteins were tested for enzyme activity in extracts supplemented with chalcone synthase. All were active in 4,2',4'-trihydroxychalcone formation, and the quantification showed that shorter lengths of the cDNAs at the 5' end correlated with progressively decreasing enzyme activities. Genomic blots with DNA from plants capable of 4,2',4'-trihydroxychalcone synthesis revealed related sequences in bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) and peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.), but not in pea (Pisum sativum L.). No hybridization was observed with parsley (Petroselinum crispum) and carrot (Daucus carota) which synthesize other phytoalexins. The reductase protein contains a leucine-zipper motif and reveals a marked similarity with other oxidoreductases most of which are involved in carbohydrate metabolism.
Production of stilbenoids and phenolic acids by the peanut plant at early stages of growth.	The peanut plant (Arachis hypogaea) is known to produce stilbene phytoalexins as a defensive response to fungal invasion; however, the distribution of phytoalexins among different organs of the peanut plant at early stages of growth under axenic conditions has not been studied. Axenic plants produced a stilbenoid, resveratrol, as well as soluble bound and free phenolic acids, including 4-methoxycinnamic acid, which is reported in peanuts for the first time. Neither resveratrol nor phenolic acids were found in the root mucilage; the prenylated stilbenes were restricted to the mucilage and were not found in other organs of the peanut plant. These findings may lead to a better understanding of the defensive role of peanut stilbenes and phenolic acids.
Toxicity of bisabolangelone from Ostericum koreanum roots to Dermatophagoides farinae and Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus (Acari: Pyroglyphidae).	The acaricidal activity of materials derived from the roots of Ostericum koreanum (Apiaceae) toward adults of Dermatophagoides farinae and Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus was examined by direct contact and vapor phase toxicity bioassays. Results were compared with those of three acaricides: benzyl benzoate, dibutyl phthalate, and N,N-diethyl-m-toluamide (DEET). The active principle was identified as the sesquiterpenoid bisabolangelone by spectroscopic analysis. In fabric-piece contact toxicity bioassays using adult D. farinae, bisabolangelone (1.88 microg/cm2) was more toxic than benzyl benzoate (11.91 microg/cm2), DEET (62.20 microg/cm2), or dibutyl phthalate (79.54 microg/cm2), based on 24-h LD50 values. Against adult D. pteronyssinus, bisabolangelone (1.79 microg/cm2) was similarly more active than benzyl benzoate (9.65 microg/cm2), DEET (64.45 microg/cm2), and dibutyl phthalate (77.79 microg/cm2). In vapor phase toxicity tests with both mite species, bisabolangelone was equitoxic in closed versus open containers. These results indicate that bisabolangelone was largely toxic through contact action. Bisabolangelone merits further study as a potential contact acaricide or lead for the control of house dust mites.
Polyisoprenylation of the CAAX motif--an in vitro protein synthesis study.	A number of proteins, including most nuclear lamins, certain fungal mating pheromones, G-protein gamma-subunits and ras proteins, contain a C-terminal cysteine-aliphatic-aliphatic-undefined amino acid (CAAX) motif which is thought to be a roughly defined consensus sequence capable of directing a series of posttranslational events, beginning with the addition of a polyisoprene moiety to the cysteine. So far such a motif has been found in every protein known to have this type of modification. We have utilized the rabbit reticulocyte lysate translation system, which is capable of carrying out the polyisoprene modification in vitro, to investigate features of the C-terminal motif which affect its suitability as a substrate. We demonstrate that a cysteine is only isoprenylated when situated at position -4 from the C-terminus. We further show that the presence of a glycine at position -3 or a terminal aromatic residue, features typical of some G-protein alpha subunits, cause a reduction and abolition respectively of isoprenylation.
RNA interference directed against ribosomal protein S3a suggests a link between this gene and arrested ovarian development during adult diapause in Culex pipiens.	Arrested ovarian development is a key characteristic of adult diapause in the mosquito Culex pipiens. In this study we propose that ribosomal protein S3a (rpS3a), a small ribosomal subunit, contributes to this shutdown. RpS3a is consistently expressed in females of C. pipiens that do not enter diapause, but in females programmed for diapause, expression of the rpS3a transcript is dramatically reduced for a brief period in early diapause (7-10 days after adult eclosion). RNA interference directed against rpS3a in nondiapausing females arrested follicle development, mimicking the diapause state. The effect of the dsRNA injection faded within 10 days, allowing the follicles to grow again, thus the suppression of rpS3a caused by RNAi did not permanently block ovarian development, implying that a brief suppression of rpS3a is not the only factor contributing to the diapause response. The arrest in development that we observed in dsRNA-injected females could be reversed with a topical application of juvenile hormone III, an endocrine trigger known to terminate diapause in this species. Though we speculate that many genes contribute to the diapause syndrome in C. pipiens, our results suggest that a shut down in the expression of rpS3a is one of the important components of this developmental response.
Identification of flavone phytoalexins and a pathogen-inducible flavone synthase II gene (SbFNSII) in sorghum.	Following inoculation with the anthracnose pathogen Colletotrichum sublineolum, seedlings of the sorghum resistant cultivar SC748-5 showed more rapid and elevated accumulation of luteolin than the susceptible cultivar BTx623. On the other hand, apigenin was the major flavone detected in infected BTx623 seedlings. Luteolin was demonstrated to show stronger inhibition of spore germination of C. sublineolum than apigenin. Because of their pathogen-inducible and antifungal nature, both flavone aglycones are considered sorghum phytoalexins. The key enzyme responsible for flavone biosynthesis has not been characterized in monocots. A sorghum pathogen-inducible gene encoding a cytochrome P450 protein (CYP93G3) in the uncharacterized CYP93G subfamily was identified. Transgenic expression of the P450 gene in Arabidopsis demonstrated that the encoded protein is a functional flavone synthase (FNS) II in planta. The sorghum gene was then termed SbFNSII. It is a single-copy gene located on chromosome 2 and the first FNSII gene characterized in a monocot. Metabolite analysis by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) in precursor ion scan mode revealed the accumulation of 2-hydroxynaringenin and 2-hydroxyeriodictyol hexosides in the transgenic Arabidopsis plants. Hence, SbFNSII appears to share a similar catalytic mechanism with the licorice and Medicago truncatula FNSIIs (CYP93B subfamily) by converting flavanones to flavone through the formation of 2-hydroxyflavanones.
Nonidentical subunits of p21H-ras farnesyltransferase. Peptide binding and farnesyl pyrophosphate carrier functions.	The protein farnesyltransferase purified from rat brain contains two nonidentical subunits, alpha and beta. The holoenzyme forms a stable complex with [3H]farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP) that can be isolated by gel filtration. The [3H]FPP is not covalently bound to the enzyme; it is released unaltered when the enzyme is denatured. When incubated with an acceptor such as p21H-ras, the complex transfers [3H]farnesyl from the bound [3H]FPP to the ras protein. This transfer is not sensitive to dilution by unbound FPP, suggesting that the [3H]FPP is bound at a site that leads to direct transfer to the p21H-ras acceptor. Cross-linking studies show that the p21H-ras binds to the lower molecular weight subunit (beta-subunit), raising the possibility that the [3H]FPP binds to the alpha-subunit. If this suggestion can be confirmed, it would invoke a reaction mechanism in which the alpha-subunit acts as a prenyl pyrophosphate carrier that delivers FPP to p21H-ras which is bound to the beta-subunit.
The phytoalexins from cultivated and wild crucifers: chemistry and biology.	Phytoalexins are antimicrobial secondary metabolites produced de novo by plants in response to stress, including microbial attack. In general, phytoalexins are important components of plant defenses against fungal and bacterial pathogens. The phytoalexins of crucifers are indole alkaloids derived from (S)-tryptophan, most of which contain a sulfur atom derived from cysteine. Beside their antimicrobial activity against different plant pathogenic species, cruciferous phytoalexins have shown anticarcinogenic effects on various human cell lines. This review focuses on the phytoalexins produced by cruciferous plants reported to date, with particular emphasis on their chemical synthesis, biosynthesis, metabolism by plant fungal pathogens and biological activities. A summary table containing all phytoalexins, their cultivated and wild cruciferous sources, their synthetic starting materials, biotransformation products and biological activities is provided.
Natural sesquiterpenoids.	This review covers the isolation, structural determination, synthesis and chemical and microbiological transformations of natural sesquiterpenoids. The literature from January to December 2012 is reviewed, and 471 references are cited.
Phytoalexin synthesis in soybean: purification and reconstitution of cytochrome P450 3,9-dihydroxypterocarpan 6a-hydroxylase and separation from cytochrome P450 cinnamate 4-hydroxylase.	Elicitor-challenged soybean (Glycine max) cell cultures were used for detergent solubilization and purification of cytochrome P450 3,9-dihydroxypterocarpan 6a-hydroxylase (D6aH). D6aH was purified to electrophoretic homogeneity from such cells by a five-step procedure. It could be separated from cytochrome P450 cinnamate 4-hydroxylase on hydroxyapatite. This is the first report on separation of two cytochrome P450 enzymes from a higher plant. On sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gels D6aH migrated with a Mr about 55,000. For reconstitution experiments soybean NADPH:cytochrome P450 (cytochrome c) reductase was purified to homogeneity. Reconstitution of D6aH in the presence of NADPH was dependent on cytochrome P450 D6aH, the reductase, and lipid. Dilauroylphosphatidylcholine gave higher D6aH activity than soybean lipids (asolectin). The reconstituted D6aH system showed a much higher temperature stability than the microsomal system.
L-652,469--a dual receptor antagonist of platelet activating factor and dihydropyridines from Tussilago farfara L.	L-652,469, 14-acetoxy-7 beta-(3'-ethylcrotonoyloxy)-notonipetranone, isolated from the methylene chloride extracts of the buds of Tussilago farfara L, was found to inhibit both platelet activating factor (PAF) and Ca2+ entry blocker binding to membrane vesicles. It inhibits the [3H]PAF specific binding to rabbit platelet membranes with equilibrium inhibition constants (Ki) of 3.2 and 4.0 microM in the presence of 150 mM NaCl and 10 mM MgCl2 respectively. It is a competitive PAF receptor antagonist with an equilibrium dissociation constant (KB) of 5.16 microM. It also competitively inhibits the specific binding of Ca2+ channel blockers (e.g. [3H]nitrendipine; Ki = 1.2 microM) in cardiac sarcolemmal vesicles. At 10(-5) M, L-652,469 causes a 60% relaxation of Ca2+-induced contraction of rat thoracic aorta strips. Due to its dual antagonistic activities, L-652,469 potently inhibits the gel-filtered rabbit platelet aggregation with a pA2 of 5.79. It was also found to be orally active with a beneficial effect to inhibit the PAF-induced rat foot edema and the first phase of carrageenan-induced rat hindpaw edema.
Molecular structure and absolute configuration of suberogorgin.	In the present paper it is reported that the molecular structure and absolute configuration of poisonous suberogorgin are determined by using X-ray diffraction method. The crystal of suberogorgin belongs to orthogonal system with space group D4(2)-P2(1)2(1)2(1). The crystallographic parameters are: a = 16.135A, b = 13.189A, c = 12.901A, Z = 8. The initial model of the crystal structure was solved by the direct method. The refinement of the structure parameters was carried out by using the least square method and led to a final R-factor of 0.056. In accordance with the molecular structure of suberogorgin mentioned above, the solvent effect of NMR has been further discussed and the relationship between the molecular structure of suberogorgin and its toxicity has also been preliminarily investigated.
Effects of Ca2+ on phytoalexin induction by fungal elicitor in soybean cells.	A glucan elicitor from the cell walls of the fungus Phytophthora megasperma f.sp. glycinea caused increases in the activities of the phytoalexin biosynthetic enzymes, phenylalanine ammonia-lyase and chalcone synthase, and induced the production of the phytoalexin, glyceollin, in soybean (Glycine max) cell suspension cultures when tested in culture medium containing 1.2 mmol/liter Ca2+. Removal of extracellular Ca2+ by treatment with ethylene glycol bis(beta-aminoethyl ether)-N, N'-tetraacetic acid followed by washing the cells with Ca2+-free culture medium abolished the elicitor-mediated phytoalexin response. This suppression was largely reversed on readdition of Ca2+. Elicitor-mediated enhancement of biosynthetic enzyme activities and accumulation of glyceollin was strongly inhibited by La3+; effective concentrations for 50% inhibition were (mumol/liter) 40 for phenylalanine ammonia-lyase, 100 for chalcone synthase, and 30 for glyceollin. Verapamil caused similar effects only at concentrations higher than 0.1 mmol/liter, whereas trifluoperazine and 8-(diethylamino)-octyl-3,4,5-trimethoxybenzoate did not affect enzyme induction by the elicitor in the concentration range tested. Uptake of alpha-amino isobutyric acid into soybean cells, which was rapidly inhibited in the presence of the glucan elicitor, was not affected by La3+ nor was uptake inhibition by the elicitor relieved by La3+. The Ca2+ ionophore, A23187, enhanced phytoalexin biosynthetic enzyme activities and glyceollin accumulation in a dose-dependent manner, with 50% stimulation (relative to the elicitor) occurring at about 5 mumol/liter. The results suggest that the glucan elicitor causes changes in metabolite fluxes across the plasma membrane of soybean cells, among which changes in Ca2+ fluxes appear to be important for the stimulation of the phytoalexin response.
Induction of tumors in ACI rats given a diet containing ptaquiloside, a bracken carcinogen.	Fifteen female ACI rats initially 5 weeks old were each given a diet containing 0.027-0.08% ptaquiloside [(PT) CAS: 87625-62-5], a carcinogen in bracken, throughout the 210-day experimental period. A control group of 20 female ACI rats was given basal diet without PT. Both ileal and urinary bladder tumors developed in all rats in the experimental group. The ileal tumors were multiple and mostly developed in the distal 10 cm of the ileum. These ileal tumors were identified histologically as epithelial tumors, such as adenomas and adenocarcinomas, and also as nonepithelial malignant tumors, malignant fibrous histiocytomas. The urinary bladder tumors were transitional cell carcinomas, keratinizing squamous cell carcinomas, and sarcomas. Papillomas of the urinary bladder were found in 4 rats in the control group. These results show that, like bracken diet, PT induces tumors in both the ileum and urinary bladder.
Partial purification and characterization of pentalenene synthase.	Pentalenene synthase, an enzyme which catalyzes the cyclization of farnesyl pyrophosphate to the sesquiterpene hydrocarbon pentalenene, has been partially purified from the supernatant fraction of Streptomyces UC5319 by a combination of anion-exchange, hydroxylapatite, and gel-filtration chromatography. The molecular weight of the partially purified synthase was estimated by gel filtration chromatography to be 57,000 and the cyclase activity was shown to be associated with a major protein band among eight visible by nondenaturing polyacrylamide disc gel electrophoresis. The Km for farnesyl pyrophosphate was 0.77 +/- 0.21 microM and the Vmax for the partially purified synthase was 287 +/- 21 nmol of pentalenene/mg protein per hour. Cyclase activity required the presence of a divalent metal cation. Although either Mg2+ or Mn2+ could be used, Mn2+ was inhibitory at concentrations above 2.5 mM. No other cofactors were required. Whereas neither product, pentalenene nor inorganic pyrophosphate, showed significant inhibition of cyclase activity at concentrations of ca 10 microM, the combination of the two resulted in an approximate sevenfold increase in the apparent Km for farnesyl pyrophosphate, suggesting that both products can bind cooperatively at the active site to inhibit pentalenene synthase competitively.
A case of black water fever treated with peritoneal dialysis and artemether (quinghaosu derivative).	A clinical case of Black Water Fever following Plasmodium falciparum infection is reported. The patient had no previous history of malaria and had not taken anti-malarials as prophylasis. He was free from G-6-PD deficiency and abnormal haemoglobins. He had acute intravascular haemolysis, haemoglobinurea and renal failure after the third dose of quinine infusion. His life was saved by peritoneal dialysis and Artemether injection. In in vitro test, his blood haemolysed suddenly in 36 hours when incubated with quinine (10 mg per lit) at 37 degrees C in test tube while control blood took over a week for natural slow haemolysis. Thus quinine plays an important part in the cause of Black Water Fever.
Elicitor stimulation of the defense response in cultured plant cells monitored by fluorescent dyes.	Addition of fungal elicitors to plant cells in suspension is known to stimulate biochemical changes in the plant cell leading to production of defense compounds. In this paper we demonstrate that introduction of elicitors from the pathogenic fungus Verticillium dahliae to cultured cotton, tobacco, or soybean cells leads to a rapid, dramatic change in the fluorescence of several membrane-associated potentiometric or pH-sensitive dyes. The fluorescence transitions occur abruptly following a brief (0 to 10 min) lag period in apparently most cells of the suspension simultaneously. Furthermore, both the length of the lag period and the rate of the subsequent fluorescence change were shown to be highly dependent on elicitor concentration. When the crude elicitor extract was separated by gel filtration chromatography into several active fractions, the ability of each fraction to stimulate phytoalexin production in the cotton cell suspension was found to correlate directly with the rate of the fluorescence decrease in the fluorescence assay. Because the assay is rapid, simple to perform, quantitative, and reproducible, it represents an attractive alternative to the more cumbersome and perhaps less quantitative elicitor assays currently in use. The fact that membrane-potential-sensitive dyes of different structure respond to elicitation of plant cells similarly further suggests, but does not prove, that asymmetric ion fluxes into or out of the plant cell are involved in the initial events of elicitor signal transduction.
Farnesol and farnesal dehydrogenase(s) in corpora allata of the tobacco hornworm moth, Manduca sexta.	The metabolism of [3H]farnesol was studied in cell-free preparations of corpora allata from the tobacco hornworm, Manduca sexta, to assess the role of this presumed biosynthetic precursor of juvenile hormone (JH) III. A reversed-phase ion-pair liquid chromatographic (RP-IPC) procedure was devised to separate farnesol from several potential intermediates in its presumed metabolism to JH III: farnesal, farnesoic acid, 10,11-epoxyfarnesoic acid, and methyl farnesoate. Following incubation of (2E,6E)-[1,5,9-3H]farnesol with homogenates of corpora allata from fifth instar larvae or adult female M. sexta, and analysis by RP-IPC, the major radiolabeled products corresponded to farnesoic acid, farnesal, and a polar product(s) presumably derived from the tritium on C-1 of farnesol. Inclusion of NAD+ in the incubations conducted with crude homogenates resulted in enhanced [3H]farnesol metabolism, decreased accumulation of [3H]farnesal, and increased levels of [3H]farnesoic acid. Substitution of NADP+ for NAD+ was ineffective, suggesting that farnesol and/or farnesal dehydrogenase were NAD+-dependent enzymes. Pellet fractions obtained by differential centrifugation of crude homogenates exhibited both farnesol and farnesal dehydrogenase activity but only the latter was clearly stimulated by addition of NAD+. The alcohol/aldehyde dehydrogenase(s) showed some substrate specificity for the 2E isomer; nerol and (2Z,6E)-farnesol were barely metabolized under conditions in which either geraniol or (2E,6E)-farnesol were rapidly oxidized. The identity of the [3H]farnesal zone obtained from RP-IPC was further established by normal-phase liquid chromatography and by gas-liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The modulating effect of an inhibitor of cholesterolgenesis present in bovine milk upon the synthesis of cholesterol, dolichol and ubiquinone.	Bovine milk contains two inhibitors of hepatic cholesterol genesis. One of these, identified as orotic acid, influences the early segment of the cholesterol biosynthetic pathway and suppresses the conversion of acetate to mevalonate. In this study the other inhibitor was shown to curtail the formation of compounds past farnesyl pyrophosphate on the squalene-cholesterol branch of the pathway. Thus cholesterol synthesis may be suppressed while the production of two other products of the branched pathway, dolichol and ubiquinone, is allowed to continue. The possible role of these ingested regulators in the metabolism of the young until they achieve sufficient development is discussed.
Michael-type reactions of tenulin, a biologically active sesquiterpene lactone.	The antitumor pseudoguaianolide tenulin has been exposed to a wide variety of biological and model nucleophilic reagents and has been shown to react exclusively with sulfur nucleophiles in a Michael-like fashion. The biological implications of these results are discussed.
The farnesyl group of H-Ras facilitates the activation of a soluble upstream activator of mitogen-activated protein kinase.	To study the function of the farnesyl modification of Ras, the farnesyl group and a variety of its structural analogs, which lack one or more double bonds and/or the methyl groups, were enzymatically incorporated into recombinant H-Ras in vitro. These proteins were used in a cell- and membrane-free, Ras-dependent mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAP kinase) activation system derived from Xenopus laevis eggs to examine the contribution of the farnesyl group toward the activation of the kinase. Whereas non-farnesylated H-Ras is unable to activate MAP kinase, farnesylation of H-Ras alone, in the absence of further processing, is sufficient to cause the activation of MAP kinase in this system. All of the analogs of the farnesyl group, when incorporated into H-Ras, support the activation of the kinase to variable extents. These results suggest a direct but fairly nonspecific interaction of the farnesyl moiety of H-Ras with a soluble upstream activator of MAP kinase.
Concentration of ptaquiloside, a major carcinogen in bracken fern (Pteridium spp.), from eastern Australia and from a cultivated worldwide collection held in Sydney, Australia.	Two surveys of bracken fern for the concentration of the carcinogen ptaquiloside (PT) have been carried out, one of bracken fern from the eastern side of Australia and the other from a worldwide collection of bracken clones held in Sydney Australia. Bracken from eastern Australia contained concentrations of ptaquiloside ranging from 0 to 12,945 micrograms PT/g. From 91 samples 15% contained greater than 5,000 micrograms PT/g and 57% of samples contained more than 1,000 micrograms PT/g bracken on the dry weight basis. Ptaquiloside concentrations were highest in Pteridium revolutum and from P. esculentum from areas where bovine enzootic haematuria was known to occur. Bracken from the cultivated bracken clone collection from world-wide sources tended to have lower concentrations of ptaquiloside ranging from 0 to 9,776 micrograms PT/g. From 77 samples, 8% contained more than 5,000 micrograms PT/g and 35% contained more than 1,000 micrograms PT/g bracken. Samples from both the eastern Australia survey and the Australian representatives in the worldwide collection showed significantly higher concentrations of PT in the P. esculentum collected from the more southern states. In samples from the worldwide collection there were no statistical differences in the concentrations of PT in bracken between taxa.
Effect of dietary turmeric (Curcuma longa) on iron-induced lipid peroxidation in the rat liver.	Male Wistar rats were fed a control diet or the control diet supplemented with 1% (by weight) turmeric for 10 wk. In rats injected with 30 mg Fe2+/kg body weight, lipid peroxidation was 29 and 35% lower in liver homogenates and microsomes, respectively, of turmeric-fed rats than in those of rats fed the control diet. The activities of superoxide dismutase, catalase and glutathione peroxidase were higher (by 19, 19 and 20%, respectively) in liver homogenates of rats fed the turmeric-containing diet in comparison with the controls. These studies indicate that dietary turmeric lowers lipid peroxidation by enhancing the activities of antioxidant enzymes.
Yeast squalene synthase. A mechanism for addition of substrates and activation by NADPH.	Squalene synthase catalyzes the condensation of two molecules of farnesyl diphosphate (FPP) to give presqualene diphosphate (PSPP) and the subsequent reductive rearrangement of PSPP to squalene. Previous studies of the mechanism of addition of FPP to the enzyme have led to conflicting interpretations of initial velocity measurements (Beytia, E., Qureshi, A. A., and Porter, J.W. (1973) J. Biol. Chem. 248, 1856-1867; Agnew, W.S., and Popjak, G. (1978) J. Biol. Chem. 253, 4566-4573). Initial velocities for synthesis of PSPP and squalene were measured over a wider range of FPP and NADPH concentrations than previously reported, using a soluble form of recombinant enzyme. In the absence of NADPH, PSPP formation was activated by FPP at concentrations above approximately 0.5 microM. At fixed levels of NADPH, the dependence of initial rates of PSPP and squalene synthesis on FPP concentrations indicated that the C15 substrate added by a sequential mechanism. In addition, NADPH stimulated synthesis of PSPP by 40-fold at saturating levels of the cofactor. This stimulation is, at least in part, by reduction of PSPP to squalene.
Airborne contact dermatitis from Frullania.	7 subjects, each giving a history of scaly or vesicular dermatitis in light-exposed areas after going for strolls to the park, the forest or the country during warm weather, were evaluated. Patch testing was carried out with Frullania dilatata and Frullania tamarisci as well as with 2 common members of the Compositae and to alantolactone and the sesquiterpene lactone mix. All the patients were positive to F. dilatata, 3 reacted to F. tamarisci as well, and 2 to florists' chrysanthemum. All of them except 1 gave positive responses to the sesquiterpene lactone mix, but only 3 reacted to alantolactone. Airborne contact dermatitis from these species of Frullania was considered to be the cause of their eczema. Patch testing with the sesquiterpene lactone mix seems to be a good screen for Frullania sensitivity; however, a variable pattern of response to these sesquiterpene-lactone-containing materials was observed, suggesting individual immunologic responses to them.
Topical fumagillin in the treatment of microsporidial keratoconjunctivitis in AIDS.	To report microsporidial keratoconjunctivitis in a patient infected with HIV who was treated with topical fumagillin.
A structural model for the mechanisms of elicitor release from fungal cell walls by plant beta-1,3-endoglucanase.	The release of elicitor-active carbohydrates from fungal cell walls by beta-1,3-endoglucanase contained in host tissues has been implicated as one of the earliest processes in the interaction between soybean (Glycine max) and the fungal pathogen Phytophthora megasperma f. sp. glycinea leading to host defense responses such as phytoalexin production. The present study was conducted to evaluate the primary structure of the glucanase-released elicitor (RE). Gel-filtration chromatography of carbohydrates released from mycelial walls by purified soybean beta-1,3-endoglucanase resolved them into the four fractions (elicitor-active RE-I, -II, and -III and elicitor-inactive RE-IV). Sugar composition analysis indicated that all of the fractions were composed almost entirely of glucose. 1H- and 13C-nuclear magnetic resonance analysis indicated the presence of both beta-1,3- and beta-1,6-linkages for the elicitor-active RE-I, -II, and -III fractions and only beta-1,3 linkage for the elicitor-inactive RE-IV fraction. Methylation analysis and degradation studies employing beta-1,3-endo- and beta-1,3-exoglucanase further suggested that the basic structure of elicitor-active RE consists of beta-1,6-linked glucan backbone chains of various lengths with frequent side branches composed of beta-1,3-linked one or two glucose moieties. From these structural analyses of RE, a structural model of how RE is originally present in fungal cell walls and released by host beta-1,3-endoglucanase is also proposed.
Microsporidial keratoconjunctivitis caused by Septata intestinalis in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.	To examine and treat a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) who had mildly hyperemic conjunctiva and epithelial keratopathy in both eyes.
A methyltransferase for synthesis of the flavanone phytoalexin sakuranetin in rice leaves.	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) leaves irradiated with short wave UV light accumulated the major rice phytoalexin, flavanone sakuranetin. The extracts from these leaves catalyzed the methylation of the hydroxyl group at position 7 of naringenin to yield sakuranetin, with S-adenosyl-L-methionine as the methyl donor. Activity of the naringenin 7-O-methyltransferase was not found in healthy rice leaves but increased upon irradiation with UV light in parallel with increase in sakuranetin. The autoradiogram of the enzymatic product on 2D-TLC was found to be sakuranetin. The enzyme did not methylate sakuranetin, but methylated other flavanones, but not isoflavanones.
Diagnosis of disseminated microsporidian Encephalitozoon hellem infection by PCR-Southern analysis and successful treatment with albendazole and fumagillin.	A 37-year old AIDS patient presented with foreign body sensation. Microsporidia were detected in smears from a conjunctival swab and urine sediment stained with calcofluor and a modified trichrome blue stain and by indirect fluorescent-antibody staining with murine polyclonal antiserum raised against Encephalitozoon hellem. This antiserum cross-reacted with other Encephalitozoon species, so PCR was performed to amplify the microsporidian ribosomal DNA (rDNA) with pan-Encephalitozoon primers. The PCR DNA products from the urine and conjunctival clinical specimens, along with the tissue culture-derived microsporidian controls, were assayed by Southern analysis with oligonucleotide probes specific for Encephalitozoon cuniculi, E. hellem, and Encephalitozoon (Septata) intestinalis. The PCR product amplified from the urine specimen hybridized with the E. hellem probe only, while insufficient DNA was amplified from the conjunctiva specimen for detection by Southern analysis. For corroboration of the PCR-Southern analysis results, aliquots of the urine and conjunctiva specimens were seeded onto RK-13 cell monolayers. The rDNA extracts of the cultured microsporidia were amplified by PCR with pan-Encephalitozoon primers, and the PCR DNA products were subjected to digestion with restriction endonuclease FokI. The amplified rDNA of both the urine and conjunctiva isolates generated digestion patterns that were identified to the E. hellem PCR rDNA digestion pattern. In addition, double-stranded heteroduplex mobility shift analysis with these PCR products indicated that the urine and conjunctiva isolates were identical to each other and to E. hellem. The patient was treated with albendazole and topical fumagillin and responded rapidly, with no recurrence of ophthalmologic signs. The results of this study demonstrate that PCR-Southern analysis provides a basis for distinguishing E. cuniculi, E. hellem, and E. intestinalis in clinical specimens.
Patch testing for Compositae allergy.	The main allergenic constituents of Compositae plants are the sesquiterpene lactones (SLs). In recent years, a mixture of three SLs, each with a different sesquiterpene skeleton (alantolactone, dehydrocostuslactone or costunolide), has been routinely used to detect Compositae allergy. The purpose of our study was to establish the value of testing with a range of Compositae extracts. Ninety-seven consecutive patients with exposure pattern dermatitis or hand eczema and gardening as a hobby or occupation were patch tested to the European standard series including SL mix 0.1% pet., Compositae extracts and other relevant allergens. Twenty-six of the 97 patients tested showed allergic reactions to SL mix or Compositae extracts. Fifteen of these showed positive reactions to both the SL mix and Compositae extracts. Eleven patients showed a negative reaction to the SL mix but positive reaction to the Compositae extracts. Dandelion elicited a positive reaction in eight of the 11 SL mix-negative patients and three patients reacted to feverfew. The SL mix failed to detect 38% of our Compositae-sensitive patients. Dandelion extract alone detected 73% of SL-negative patients. Additional testing with feverfew extract would have detected 91% of the SL mix-negative individuals. Our study highlights the importance of testing the response of SL-negative patients to additional Compositae extracts when there is a clinical suspicion of Compositae allergy.
Anti-MRSA activity of sophoraflavanone G and synergism with other antibacterial agents.	Anti-MRSA activity of sophoraflavanone G (SFG) and synergism between SFG and antibacterial agents against MRSA (methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus) were evaluated by means of Minimal Inhibitory Concentrations (MIC). The MICs of SFG against 27 strains of MRSA ranged from 3.13 to 6.25 micrograms ml-1. Synergism between SFG and vancomycin hydrochloride (VCM) or fosfomycin (FOM) was observed (the fraction inhibitory concentration (FIC) indices were 0.16 and 0.48), while partial synergism was admitted between SFG and other antibacterial agents such as methicillin (DMPPC), cefzonam (CZON), gentamicin (GM), minocycline (MINO) and levofloxacin (LVFX) (the FIC indices were 0.71, 0.73, 0.69, 0.65 and 0.58, respectively). These findings suggest that SFG in combination with VCM or FOM may be useful in controlling MRSA infections.
H-ras activation is an early event in the ptaquiloside-induced carcinogenesis: comparison of acute and chronic toxicity in rats.	Bracken fern (Pteridium spp.) produces cancer of the urinary bladder and oesophagus in grazing animals and is a suspected human carcinogen. The carcinogenic principle ptaquiloside (PT), when activated to a dienone (APT), forms DNA adducts which eventually leads to tumor. Two groups of female Sprague-Dawley rats were given a chronic dose of 3 mg APT weekly for 10 weeks either by intravenous (i.v.) tail vein or by intragastric (i.g.) route. A third group was given a weekly dose of 6 mg of APT for 3 weeks by the i.g. route corresponding to acute dosing. Both chronic i.v. and i.g. dosed animals showed ischemic tubular necrosis in the kidney but only i.v. dosed animals developed adenocarcinomas of the mammary glands. Acutely dosed i.g. animals produced apoptotic bodies in the liver, necrosis of blood cell precursors in the bone marrow and ischemic tubular necrosis in the kidney but they did not develop tumors. No mutations were found in the H-ras and p53 genes in the mammary glands of either the i.g. rats or the tumor-bearing i.v. rats. However, the mammary glands of a fourth group of rats, which received APT by i.v. and killed before tumor development, carried Pu to Pu and Pu to Py double mutations in codons 58 and 59 of H-ras. This study indicates that the route of administration plays a role in the nature of the disease expression from ptaquiloside exposure. In addition to confirming the role of APT in the PT-induced carcinogenesis our finding suggests that activation of H-ras is an early event in the PT-carcinogenesis model.
The anti-angiogenic agent fumagillin covalently modifies a conserved active-site histidine in the Escherichia coli methionine aminopeptidase.	Methionine aminopeptidase (MetAP) exists in two forms (type I and type II), both of which remove the N-terminal methionine from proteins. It previously has been shown that the type II enzyme is the molecular target of fumagillin and ovalicin, two epoxide-containing natural products that inhibit angiogenesis and suppress tumor growth. By using mass spectrometry, N-terminal sequence analysis, and electronic absorption spectroscopy we show that fumagillin and ovalicin covalently modify a conserved histidine residue in the active site of the MetAP from Escherichia coli, a type I enzyme. Because all of the key active site residues are conserved, it is likely that a similar modification occurs in the type II enzymes. This modification, by occluding the active site, may prevent the action of MetAP on proteins or peptides involved in angiogenesis. In addition, the results suggest that these compounds may be effective pharmacological agents against pathogenic and resistant forms of E. coli and other microorganisms.
Crystal structure of farnesyl protein transferase complexed with a CaaX peptide and farnesyl diphosphate analogue.	The crystallographic structure of acetyl-Cys-Val-Ile-selenoMet-COOH and alpha-hydroxyfarnesylphosphonic acid (alphaHFP) complexed with rat farnesyl protein transferase (FPT) (space group P61, a = b = 174. 13 A, c = 69.71 A, alpha = beta = 90 degrees, gamma = 120 degrees, Rfactor = 21.8%, Rfree = 29.2%, 2.5 A resolution) is reported. In the ternary complex, the bound substrates are within van der Waals contact of each other and the FPT enzyme. alphaHFP binds in an extended conformation in the active-site cavity where positively charged side chains and solvent molecules interact with the phosphate moiety and aromatic side chains pack adjacent to the isoprenoid chain. The backbone of the bound CaaX peptide adopts an extended conformation, and the side chains interact with both FPT and alphaHFP. The cysteine sulfur of the bound peptide coordinates the active-site zinc. Overall, peptide binding and recognition appear to be dominated by side-chain interactions. Comparison of the structures of the ternary complex and unliganded FPT [Park, H., Boduluri, S., Moomaw, J., Casey, P., and Beese, L. (1997) Science 275, 1800-1804] shows that major rearrangements of several active site side chains occur upon substrate binding.
Alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) resistance to the root-lesion nematode, Pratylenchus penetrans: defense-response gene mRNA and isoflavonoid phytoalexin levels in roots.	Alfalfa (Medicago sativa) varieties with antibiosis-based resistance to the root-lesion nematode (Pratylenchus penetrans), a migratory endoparasite of many crops, have been developed by recurrent selection. Individual plants from these varieties that support significantly lower nematode reproduction were identified for molecular and biochemical characterization of defense responses. Before nematode infection, RNA blot analysis revealed 1.3-1.8-fold higher phenylpropanoid pathway mRNA levels in roots of three resistant plants as compared to three susceptible alfalfa plants. The mRNAs encoded the first enzyme in the pathway (phenylalanine ammonia-lyase), the first in the pathway branch for flavonoid biosynthesis (chalcone synthase), a key enzyme in medicarpin biosynthesis (isoflavone reductase) and a key enzyme in the pathway branch for biosynthesis of lignin cell wall precursors (caffeic acid O-methyltransferase). After nematode infection, the mRNAs declined over 48 h in resistant roots but rose in susceptible plants during the first 12 h after-infection and then declined. Acidic beta-1,3-glucanase mRNA levels were initially similar in both root types but accumulated more rapidly in resistant than in susceptible roots after nematode infection. Levels of a class I chitinase mRNA were similar in both root types. Histone H3.2 mRNA levels, initially 1.3-fold higher in resistant roots, declined over 6-12 h to levels found in susceptible roots and remained stable in both root types thereafter. Defense-response gene transcripts in roots of nematode-resistant and susceptible alfalfa plants thus differed both constitutively and in inductive responses to nematode infection. HPLC analysis of isoflavonoid-derived metabolites of the phenylpropanoid pathway revealed similar total constitutive levels, but varying relative proportions and types, in roots of the resistant and susceptible plants. Nematode infection had no effect on isoflavonoid levels. Constitutive levels of the phytoalexin medicarpin were highest in roots of the two most resistant plants. Medicarpin inhibited motility of P. penetrans in vitro.
Anthranilate N-hydroxycinnamoyl/benzoyltransferase gene from carnation: rapid elicitation of transcription and promoter analysis.	Hydroxycinnamoyl/benzoyl-CoA:anthranilate N-hydroxycinnamoyl/benzoyltransferase (HCBT) catalyses the committed reaction of phytoalexin biosynthesis in carnation (Dianthus caryophyllus L.). Three HCBT cDNAs were cloned previously from suspension-cultured carnation cells that had been induced with fungal elicitor. A rapid, transient induction of hcbt transcripts upon elicitation, reaching maximal abundances within about 0.5 h and returning to basal levels within 4 h, suggested the involvement of unusual cis elements. A DNA fragment of 3.8 kb, spanning the hcbt2 gene with the 5'-flanking region of roughly 1.8 kb, was cloned from carnation plants. The gene encodes one long open reading frame lacking introns. The DNA sequence revealed a conserved TATA box, three elicitor response elements (EREs) and a 9 bp direct repeat as well as an interrupted direct repeat of 11 bp in the TATA distal region. EMSA revealed the binding of elicitor-inducible nuclear factors to the promoter region from -377 to -326 spanning two of the EREs, and their functional relevance was confirmed by transient expression assays of hcbt2 promoter-GUS reporter gene constructs in parsley protoplasts. Furthermore, an oligo(A) segment was present immediately preceding the start of translation (+140 to +150). Transient expression analysis demonstrated that the sequence upstream to -1157 at least is required in context with the 5'-UTR, particularly including the poly(A) segment, for strong expression and full elicitor induction of the hcbt2 gene. The results suggested that several sequence motifs scattered over a wide range of the 5'-flanking region and into the exonic sequence are responsible for the full elicitor regulation of the hcbt2 gene.
A fluorometric assay for the measurement of endothelial cell density in vitro.	A fluorometric assay for determining endothelial cell numbers based on the endogenous enzyme acid phosphatase is described. In preliminary studies, three substrates--p-nitrophenyl phosphate, 4-methylumbelliferyl phosphate, and 2'-[2-benzthiazoyl]-6'-hydroxy-benthiazole phosphate (AttoPhos)--were compared with respect to their kinetic, optimum assay conditions, sensitivity, and detection limits. Only AttoPhos was found to have a high degree of sensitivity, reliability, and reproducibility for measuring both high and low cell numbers in the same plate. In subsequent experiments, assay conditions were validated for measuring endothelial cell density in response to basic fibroblast growth factor and fumagillin. Furthermore, the AttoPhos assay revealed a linear correlation between acid phosphatase activity and cell number in many cell types, including BALB/3T3, CHO-K1, A431, MCF7, 2008, SK-OV-3, T47-D, and OVCAR-3. This assay is potentially valuable for use in many in vitro systems in which the quantitation of cell density and proliferation is necessary. The practical advantages of AttoPhos assay for measuring endothelial cell numbers include (1) nonradioactivity, (2) simplicity, (3) economy, (4) speed of assessment of proliferation of large number of samples, and (5) amenability to high-throughput drug screening.
Induction of a polyubiquitin gene (ubi1) by potato phytoalexins and heat shock in Gibberella pulicaris.	Gibberella pulicaris, a causal agent of potato dry rot, infects potato tubers via wounds, where it is exposed to the phytoalexins rishitin and lubimin. Incubation of mycelium on agar supplemented with phytoalexins transiently induced the transcription of a polyubiquitin gene consisting of four ubiquitin units arranged head to tail; the fourth unit contains a 54-bp intron and an additional glutamine at the C-terminus of the encoded protein. Southern analysis of the G. pulicaris genome revealed one copy of the isolated polyubiquitin gene and one or two copies of other ubiquitin genes. Increased transcription of the gene was detectable above a threshold of 100 microg/ml of rishitin and at elevated temperatures, which indicates that exposure to phytoalexins causes a stress reaction of hyphal cells similar to that after heat shock.
The cruciferous phytoalexins brassinin and cyclobrassinin are intermediates in the biosynthesis of brassilexin.	Following feeding experiments with the tetradeuterated cruciferous phytoalexins brassinin (5b) and cyclobrassinin (6b), leaves of Brassica carinata were elicited with the blackleg causing fungus Phoma lingam and incubated. Spectroscopic and HPLC analyses indicated that both brassinin (5a) and cyclobrassinin (6a) were incorporated into the cruciferous phytoalexin brassilexin (7a).
