Antifilarial activity of Azadirachta indica on cattle filarial parasite Setaria cervi.	Alcohol and aqueous extracts of flowers of Azadirachta indica were tested in vitro for their potential antifilarial activity against whole worm, nerve muscle (n.m.) preparation and microfilariae of Setaria cervi. The effects of alcohol and aqueous extracts were similar in nature on the spontaneous movements of whole worm and nerve muscle preparation. On the whole worm, the response was characterized by initial increase in tone, rate and amplitude of contractions followed by reversible paralysis. The initial stimulant effect is likely to be due to irritant effect on the cuticle. Nerve muscle preparation responded to both extracts by inhibition of spontaneous movements followed by reversible paralysis; initial stimulation phase was absent. The inhibition was concentration related. Alcohol and aqueous extracts had almost similar lethal effect on the microfilariae of S. cervi, the LC50 being 15 and 18 ng/ml, respectively.
In vitro screening of medicinal plant extracts for macrofilaricidal activity.	Methanolic extracts of 20 medicinal plants were screened at 1-10 mg/ml for in vitro macrofilaricidal activity by worm motility assay against adult Setaria digitata, the cattle filarial worm. Four plant extracts showed macrofilaricidal activity by worm motility at concentrations below 4 mg/ml and an incubation period of 100 min. Complete inhibition of worm motility and subsequent mortality was observed at 3, 2, 1 and 1 mg/ml, respectively, for Centratherum anthelminticum, Cedrus deodara, Sphaeranthus indicus and Ricinus communis. 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide (MTT) reduction assay was carried out at 1 mg ml(-1) and 4-h incubation period, and the results showed that C. deodara, R. communis, S. indicus and C. anthelminticum exhibited 86.56, 72.39, 61.20 and 43.15% inhibition respectively in formazan formation compared to the control.
5/6/7/8 mono or disubstituted 1H/1-phenyl-9H-pyrido [3,4 b] indoles--a new class of antifilarial agents and their relationship with voltage sensitive calcium channels in Setaria cervi.	Synthetic compounds of 5/6/7/8 mono or disubstituted 1H/1-phenyl-9H pyrido (3,4 b) indole series were screened for their antifilarial activity in vitro by observing their effect on the spontaneous movements of the whole worm and nerve muscle preparation of S. cervi (Nematoda:Filarioidea). Of the 10 compounds tested only compound 87/581 was able to modify the movements of whole worm and nerve muscle preparation. This compound caused inhibition of spontaneous motility of whole worm and nerve muscle preparation of S. cervi characterized by initial short lasting stimulation followed by irreversible paralysis. The concentration required to inhibit the movements of n.m. preparation was 10 micrograms/ml as compared to 25 micrograms/ml for the whole worm preparation, suggesting a cuticular permeability barrier. Prior addition of compound 87/581 to the bath fluid blocked the calcium ion dependent stimulant effect of Ach and pyrantel pamoate. Further the initial stimulant effect of the compound was blocked by prior addition of nifedipine a calcium channel blocker. The findings suggest that the action is due to blockade of voltage sensitive calcium channels.
