Interleukin-7 receptor alpha (IL-7Ralpha) deficiency: cellular and molecular bases. Analysis of clinical, immunological, and molecular features in 16 novel patients.	Analysis of gene-targeted mice and patients with severe combined immunodeficiency due to mutations of the alpha chain of the interleukin-7 receptor (IL-7Ralpha) has shown important differences between mice and humans in the role played by IL-7 in lymphoid development. More recently, it has been shown that IL-7Ralpha is also shared by the receptor for another cytokine, thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP). In this review, we discuss recent advances in IL-7- and TSLP-mediated signaling. We also report on the clinical and immunological features of 16 novel patients with IL-7Ralpha deficiency and discuss the results of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.
Combined immune deficiencies in children.	Combined immune deficiencies are a heterogeneous group of congenital disorders usually attributable to a single gene defect. The hallmark of these disorders is recurrent infections resulting from defects in both T- and B-cell function. This article reviews the basic components of the immune system as well as the clinical presentation, laboratory findings, and treatment for 3 distinct combined immune deficiencies.
A syndrome of immunodeficiency, autoimmunity, and spondylometaphyseal dysplasia.	We treated a 5-year-old boy, in our hospital in south India, who had a history of recurrent respiratory infections, tuberculosis, and severe varicella infection. He was short in build and a radiological examination revealed evidence of spondylometaphyseal dysplasia. Investigation of the immune system was suggestive of compromised cellular immunity. Immunofluorescence and immunoblot assay for antibodies detected underlying multiple disorders such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), autoimmune thrombocytopenia, and juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (JRA). Roifman et al. described a similar syndrome in 2000 and 2003, which was characterized by spondylometaphyseal dyplasia, combined immunodeficiency, and autoimmunity and called it Roifman-Costa syndrome (OMIM 607944). Hence a diagnosis of Roifman-Costa syndrome was made. Ours shall be the first report of such a condition from the Indian subcontinent and hence the communication.
Educational paper. The expanding clinical and immunological spectrum of severe combined immunodeficiency.	Severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) is one of the most severe forms of primary immunodeficiency characterized by absence of functional T lymphocytes. It is a paediatric emergency, which is life-threatening when recognized too late. The clinical presentation varies from the classical form of SCID through atypical SCID to Omenn syndrome. In addition, there is a considerable immunological variation, which can hamper the diagnosis. In this educational review, we describe the immunopathological background, clinical presentations and diagnostic process of SCID, as well as the therapeutic possibilities.
Clinical characteristics and molecular analysis of three Chinese children with Omenn syndrome.	Omenn syndrome (OS) is a rare autosomal recessive genetic disorder and presents symptoms of severe combined immunodeficiency characterized by erythrodermia, eosinophilia, hepatosplenomegaly, lymphadenopathy, and elevated serum IgE levels. OS has been found to be caused by mutations in RAG1 or RAG2 gene that result in partial V(D)J recombination activity. No study on OS has been reported in Chinese children so far. In this study, the genotype and phenotypes of three infants with OS from three unrelated Chinese families were investigated. All the three children had most of the characteristics of OS except normal serum IgE level. Compound heterozygosity mutations in RAG1 gene (1983 G>A; 2444 C>T and 2219 C>T; 3127 C>G) were identified in two cases, and a homozygous deletion mutation with a premature stop codon was found at residue 2302 of RAG1 gene (2302delT, I729X) in the remaining case, including three novel mutations (2302delT, I729X; 2219 C>T, R699W; and 3127 C>G, Y1001X). Spectratyping analysis of T-cell receptor β-chain variable region (TCRVβ) gene rearrangement was performed in case 1 and case 2. All the 25 TCRVβ subfamilies presented monoclonal or oligoclonal peaks in case 1 and 11 TCRVβ subfamilies were very weak or even absent in case 2. This was the first report about OS in Chinese children. Molecular genetic testing represents an important tool for early confirmed diagnosis and may allow accurate carrier detection and prenatal diagnosis.
Severe combined immune deficiency syndrome.	To determine the clinico-demographic features and laboratory parameters of children with severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID).
