How you spend your pennies ... factors affecting the efficiency of human waste disposal systems (re-usable and disposable) and their cost.	Both re-usable and disposable systems have their merits and problems. The disposable system, being fully integrated, appears to be steadily gaining market share compared with the re-usable system. Since its introduction, the success of the re-usable system has been limited by the use of pans not designed for automatic processing. Where the 'perfection' pan has been superseded by 'open' shaped receptacles and those used in commode chairs, cleaning effectiveness can be improved by a factor of 10. For this and other reasons, nursing involvement in the re-usable system can be high while the 'perfection' pan is in use. A work study exercise to compare nursing involvement in re-usable and disposable systems is under way. When selecting a human waste disposal system for any site, it is vital that all disciplines discuss and decide objectives. The equipment usage, space, site conditions, availability and quality of supplies (eg water, electricity), the costs of maintenance, nursing time and other expenditure must be considered. The disposable system is capable of high process rates (more than double that of the fastest re-usable system). Its capital cost is currently about 1,000 pounds less than an average re-usable system, but in the busiest wards, revenue costs may be higher. In such wards the space for disposable receptacle storage can be as much as five to ten times machine volume. The design of macerators is generally simpler (having less components) than washer-disinfectors. Monitoring and maintenance involvement are likewise expected to be lower, particularly in hospitals with modern drainage systems.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Waste disposal: macerator or disinfector--notes for calculating revenue comparisons and payback periods.	These working notes were prepared by a manufacturer of sluiceroom and medical equipment in an effort to provide an unbiased comparison between disposable and re-usable systems for human waste disposal. Blank spaces which will be found within the tables and graphs are for the insertion of your own specific local data. Thus, it is hoped that individuals will find these notes to be specifically relevant to them.
Applicability of a yeast oestrogen screen for the detection of oestrogen-like activities in environmental samples.	A (xeno)oestrogen bioassay was introduced, using a genetically modified yeast strain which produces a fusion protein encompassing the human oestrogen receptor hormone binding domain and the yeast GAL4-DNA binding domain. Upon binding of appropriate substances this fusion protein recognises the respective DNA sequence thereby enhancing the transcription of a beta-galactosidase reporter gene. The bioassay procedure was evaluated by screening 30 compounds, including some known or suspected (xeno)oestrogens and determining EC50-values for 17 beta-oestradiol, 1.5 nM, 4-tert.-octylphenol, 6.7 microM and bisphenol A, 104 microM. Toluene extracts from different environmental matrices were tested for their oestrogenic activity. The positive test results obtained with a sewage sludge extract indicated the applicability of this bioassay for environmental monitoring.
Risk screening for exposure to groundwater pollution in a wastewater irrigation district of the Mexico City region.	Untreated wastewater from the Mexico City basin has been used for decades to irrigate cropland in the Mezquital Valley, State of Hidalgo, Mexico. Excess irrigation water recharges the near-surface aquifer that is used as a domestic water supply source. We assessed the groundwater quality of three key groundwater sources of domestic water by analyzing for 24 trace metals, 67 target base/neutral/acid (BNA) organic compounds, nontarget BNA organics, 23 chlorinated pesticides, 20 polychlorinated biphenyls, and nitrate, as well as microbiological contaminants--coliforms, Vibrio cholerae, and Salmonella. Study participants answered a questionnaire that estimated ingestion and dermal exposure to groundwater; 10% of the sample reported frequent diarrhea and 9% reported persistent skin irritations. Detection of V. cholerae non-01 in surface waters at all sites suggested a potential risk (surrogate indicator present) of diarrheal disease for canal and river bathers by accidental ingestion, as well as potential Vibrio contamination of near-surface groundwater and potential cholera risk, magnified by lapses in disinfection. High total coliform levels in surface water and lower levels in groundwater at all sites indicated fecal contamination and a potential risk of gastrointestinal disease in populations exposed to inadequately disinfected groundwater. Using chemical criteria, no significant risk from ingestion or dermal contact was identified at the method detection limits at any site, except from nitrate exposure: infants and young children are at risk from methemoglobinemia at all sites. Results suggest that pathogen risk interventions are a priority, whereas nitrate risk needs further characterization to determine if formal treatment is needed. The risks exist inside and outside the irrigation district. The method was highly cost-effective.
Trace element inputs into soils by anthropogenic activities and implications for human health.	Trace element definition and functions, and inputs into soils from the most important anthropogenic sources, related and not related to agricultural practices, of general and local or incidental concern, are discussed in the first part of this review. Trace element inputs include those from commercial fertilizers, liming materials and agrochemicals, sewage sludges and other wastes used as soil amendments, irrigation waters, and atmospheric depositions from urban, industrial, and other sources. In the second part of the review, the most important ascertained effects of soil trace elements on human health are presented. The possible relations found between some specific soil trace elements, such as Cd, Se, As and others, and cancer incidence and mortality, and diffusion of other important human diseases are reviewed. Brief conclusions and recommendations conclude this review.
The health effects of swimming in ocean water contaminated by storm drain runoff.	Waters adjacent to the County of Los Angeles (CA) receive untreated runoff from a series of storm drains year round. Many other coastal areas face a similar situation. To our knowledge, there has not been a large-scale epidemiologic study of persons who swim in marine waters subject to such runoff. We report here results of a cohort study conducted to investigate this issue. Measures of exposure included distance from the storm drain, selected bacterial indicators (total and fecal coliforms, enterococci, and Escherichia coli), and a direct measure of enteric viruses. We found higher risks of a broad range of symptoms, including both upper respiratory and gastrointestinal, for subjects swimming (a) closer to storm drains, (b) in water with high levels of single bacterial indicators and a low ratio of total to fecal coliforms, and (c) in water where enteric viruses were detected. The strength and consistency of the associations we observed across various measures of exposure imply that there may be an increased risk of adverse health outcomes associated with swimming in ocean water that is contaminated with untreated urban runoff.
PHA production by activated sludge.	The production of polyhydroxyalkanoate by anaerobic-aerobic activated sludge was reviewed concentrating on the biochemical mechanisms and on the trials to increase polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA) content in activated sludge. The anaerobic aerobic activated sludge system selects microorganisms with the capabilities to couple glycolysis, polyphosphate degradation, and PHA accumulation for anaerobic substrate uptake. Some of the PHA-related metabolisms observed there have not been seen in pure cultures so far. Such metabolisms are the formation of PHA containing 3-hydroxy-2-methylvalerate, and '3-hydroxyvalerate fermentation' in which glucose or glycogen is converted to 3-hydroxyvalerate-rich PHA while yielding energy. The PHA content of activated sludge can be increased up to 62% by applying a microaerophilic-aerobic activated sludge process. PHA production by activated sludge is worth investigation.
Fish farming in ponds and lakes to provide an important protein supplement to the food basket, and connected public health problems.	Fish farming in ponds can be of great value in various ways: 1) By adding fat-free and relatively inexpensive animal protein to the food basket; 2) By removing waste water in a most hygienic as well as economic way; 3) By saving the cost of transport and storage of meat from warm-blooded animals by breeding fish near the consumer. Our task is to prevent the spread of disease in fish, to prevent transmission of health hazards to man, and to inspect the quality of fish all along the line from the ponds through marketing to the consumer.
Persistence of viral pathogens and bacteriophages during sewage treatment: lack of correlation with indicator bacteria.	The effects of different sewage treatments on the viral contamination in rivers which receive water from treatment plants without a final sand filtration step were investigated. They were all heavily contaminated with bacteriophages and human enteric viruses (detected by single step reverse transcription amplification followed by a nested polymerase chain reaction). Bacteriophages, but not faecal indicator organisms, were correlated with viral contamination.
Preserved granular sludge for inoculation of new UASB reactors.	In this study, granular sludges collected from a mesophilic laboratory-scale UASB reactor were stored for 6 months at 4 degrees C, 24 degrees C (room temperature) and 35 degrees C, respectively. The preservation characteristics of granular sludges (including soluble COD, granular particle size and granular surface morphology) in terms of storage age and temperature were investigated. It was found that 4 degrees C stored UASB granules were more capable of maintaining their granular structures over those stored at 24 degrees C and 35 degrees C. Granulation in UASB reactors seeded with preserved sludge granules reached its post-maturation stage about 40 days ahead of the control, mainly by means of eliminating the embryonic granule formation stage from the granulation process. The results in this study indicated that the preserved granular sludge could be used as an effective inoculum to accelerate new UASB reactor start-up.
Enhanced phosphorus removal by glucose fed sequencing batch reactor.	In this study an anaerobic/aerobic sequencing batch reactor was used for an enhanced biological phosphorus removal. These conditions were tested by a laboratory scale reactor (14 liter) with a synthetic feed, glucose being the sole carbon source. However, enhanced biological phosphorus removal (EBPR) was not achieved during this study. A series of batch tests were conducted with various substrates; acetic acid, glucose and the mixture of acetic acid and glucose. High phosphate removal was obtained when acetate was the substrate (68.7%). It was observed that when the acetic acid was used as a sole substrate, the bacteria growing in the alternating anaerobic/aerobic system removed the organic substrate under anaerobic conditions. However, in case of the glucose feed most of the COD removal took place under not truly anaerobic conditions. This also coincides with low phosphate removal (37.8%). These results are in consistent with the results of the continuous operation. When the acetic acid-glucose mixture was used, the phosphate removal decreased down to 60.8%. This was thought to be due to the glucose that reduced the dependency on poly-P as an energy source.
The polyhydroxyalkanoates characteristics of denitrifying and non-denitrifying phosphate accumulating organisms.	This study investigated the polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHA) characteristics of denitrifying phosphate accumulating organisms (DNPAO) and non-denitrifying phosphate accumulating organisms (non-DNPAO) via a series of anoxic batch experiments in which the sludge was taken from a hybrid AS-biofilm pilot plant named the TNCU-I process. The results showed that 40.7% and 59.3% of the PHA was utilized in the anoxic and aerobic zones, respectively. Meanwhile, 47% and 53% of the phosphate was taken up in the anoxic and aerobic zones. The phosphate uptake amount per unit of PHA consumption (YPO4/PHA) in the anoxic and aerobic zones of the TNCU-I pilot plant were 0.83 mg PO4-P/mg PHA and 0.64 mg PO4-P/mg PHA. Furthermore, the batch experiments showed that the gammaPO4 PHA of DNPAO and non-DNPAO was 1.12 and 1.22 mg PO4-P/mg PHA, respectively. The difference of gammaPO4/PHA for non-DNPAO between the pilot plant and batch experiments may be caused by insufficient phosphate and the extra PHA consumption in the aerobic zone.
Suspended solids from industrial and municipal origins.	The origins of suspended solids are the effluents of municipal and industrial wastewater treatment plants and storm sewage treatment. This paper deals with the sources of industrial and municipal wastewater treatment and the single treatment of side streams. An overview of the common treatment processes is given and the main sinks for suspended solids are named and described. The food industry is based on the processing of organic matter (fruits, etc.). During the single processing steps three main fractions occur, inorganic material (e.g., from the washing step), organic residues (e.g., the peel), and suspended solids (SS) in the wastewater. Today higher rates of recycling (water and raw materials) can be found in all kinds of industrial processes. The principle is that avoidance should take precedence over utilization which should take precedence over disposal. Numerous possibilities of production-integrated measures exist, e.g., conveyance of production circuits, product recovery, and stepped cleaning. Despite and/or due to these efforts, huge amounts of residues occur. They are the main sink for suspended solids. Only seldom is landfilling used to treat these residues. Usually utilization as animal nourishment or biological (aerobic or anaerobic) or thermal (incineration) treatment methods are used. Huge capacities for a codigestion of agroindustrial residues (substrates) and wastewater sludge can be found in municipal digesters. As most of the food processing factories are indirect dischargers, the largest amount of the SS fraction in the wastewater is led to municipal wastewater treatment plants. Rarely, a connection between the SS concentrations in the influent and those in the effluent can be observed in conventional wastewater treatment. As a polishing step, filtration methods gain more and more importance with regard to suspended solids removal.
Do food processing industries contribute to the eutrophication of aquatic systems?	Eutrophication is the enrichment of water bodies with plant nutrients and precursors, typically nitrogen, phosphorus, and organic matter. There exists a "natural" and slow eutrophication, which, over geological times, turns a lake into a marsh and then dries it entirely. Today, however, eutrophication is mostly referred to the human process that "results in the stimulation of an array of symptomatic changes, among which increased production of algae and macrophytes, deterioration of water quality and other symptomatic changes are found to be undesirable and interfere with water uses" as defined by the OECD in 1982. This undesirable process is observed mostly in enclosed water bodies, such as lakes, but also in some rivers, some estuaries, and some coastal zones. In most freshwater systems, phosphorus has been identified as the "limiting nutrient" to phytoplankton development. This nutrient is brought to aquatic environments from rock weathering, soil leaching, and rain (natural sources), but also and mostly from agricultural runoff and domestic sewage. Some food processing industries (meat, vegetables, cheese processing) also contribute significantly to the phosphorus budget, even though the pollution may be due to floor and utensil cleaning rather than to direct food wastes.
Myxozoan communities parasitizing Notropis hudsonius (Cyprinidae) at selected localities on the St. Lawrence River, Quebec: possible effects of urban effluents.	Late summer myxozoan infra- and component communities parasitizing 73 Notropis hudsonius at 5 sites on the St. Lawrence River upstream and downstream from the island of Montreal are described from study of histological sections of individual fish. Community membership included Myxobolus sp. A (intracellular in striated muscle fibers), Myxobolus sp. B (intracellular in striated muscle fibers), Myxobolus sp. C (brain), and Thelohanellus notatus (Mavor, 1916) Kudo, 1929 (loose connective tissue), all of which are histozoic myxobolids displaying strict tissue specificity for trophozoite development. Mean infracommunity richness in fish at the separate localities was estimated to be 0.4 +/- 0.5 to 1.3 +/- 0.7, with a maximum richness of 3 in any 1 fish. Component community richness in host samples was 2 to 4. It is argued that these are relatively high levels of diversity for freshwater fish parasites but that the values are probably conservative because of the study of only portions of individual fish. The percentage of fish infected with myxozoans of any species and infracommunity richness was significantly greater below the island of Montreal compared with above it. It is suspected that increased oligochaete populations at these sites, resulting from sewage-caused organic enrichment of sediments, may have accounted for the observed increased prevalence of infection.
"Living off the land": resource efficiency of wetland wastewater treatment.	Bioregenerative life support technologies for space application are advantageous if they can be constructed using locally available materials, and rely on renewable energy resources, lessening the need for launch and resupply of materials. These same characteristics are desirable in the global Earth environment because such technologies are more affordable by developing countries, and are more sustainable long-term since they utilize less non-renewable, imported resources. Subsurface flow wetlands (wastewater gardens(TM)) were developed and evaluated for wastewater recycling along the coast of Yucatan. Emergy evaluations, a measure of the environmental and human economic resource utilization, showed that compared to conventional sewage treatment, wetland wastewater treatment systems use far less imported and purchased materials. Wetland systems are also less energy-dependent, lessening dependence on electrical infrastructure, and require simpler maintenance since the system largely relies on the ecological action of microbes and plants for their efficacy. Detailed emergy evaluations showed that wetland systems use only about 15% the purchased emergy of conventional sewage systems, and that renewable resources contribute 60% of total emergy used (excluding the sewage itself) compared to less than 1% use of renewable resources in the high-tech systems. Applied on a larger scale for development in third world countries, wetland systems would require the electrical energy of conventional sewage treatment (package plants), and save of total capital and operating expenses over a 20-year timeframe. In addition, there are numerous secondary benefits from wetland systems including fiber/fodder/food from the wetland plants, creation of ecosystems of high biodiversity with animal habitat value, and aesthestic/landscape enhancement of the community. Wetland wastewater treatment is an exemplar of ecological engineering in that it creates an interface ecosystem to handle byproducts of the human economy, maximizing performance of the both the natural economy and natural ecosystems. Wetland systems accomplish this with far greater resource economy than other sewage treatment approaches, and thus offer benefits for both space and Earth applications.
Functional, regulatory and indicator features of microorganisms in man-made ecosystems.	Functional, regulatory and indicator features of microorganisms in development and functioning of the systems and sustaining stability of three man-made ecosystem types has been studied. 1) The functional (metabolic) feature was studied in aquatic ecosystems of biological treatment of sewage waters for the reducer component. 2) The regulatory feature of bacteria for plants (producer component) was studied in simple terrestrial systems "wheat plants-rhizospheric microorganisms-artificial soil" where the behavior of the system varied with activity of the microbial component. For example with atmospheric carbon dioxide content elevated microbes promote intensification of photosynthesis processes, without binding the carbon in the plant biomass. 3) The indicator feature for the humans (consumer component) was studied in Life Support Systems (LSS). High sensitivity of human microflora to system conditions allowed its use as an indicator of the state of both system components and the entire ecosystem. Grant numbers: N99-04-96017, N15.
Drugs in the environment: emission of drugs, diagnostic aids and disinfectants into wastewater by hospitals in relation to other sources--a review.	After administration, pharmaceuticals are excreted by the patients into wastewater. Unused medications are sometimes disposed of in drains. The drugs enter the aquatic environment and eventually reach drinking water if they are not biodegraded or eliminated during sewage treatment. Additionally, antibiotics and disinfectants are supposed to disturb the wastewater treatment process and the microbial ecology in surface waters. Furthermore, resistant bacteria may be selected in the aeration tanks of STPs by the antibiotic substances present. Recently, pharmaceuticals have been detected in surface water, ground water and drinking water. However, only little is known about the significance of emissions from households and hospitals. A brief summary of input by different sources, occurrence, and elimination of different pharmaceutical groups such as antibiotics, anti-tumour drugs, anaesthetics and contrast media as well as AOX resulting from hospital effluent input into sewage water and surface water will be presented.
The pollution and protection of the inner Oslofjord: redefining the goals of wastewater treatment policy in the 20th century.	The main source of pollution in the inner Oslofjord in the 20th century has been municipal sewage discharges from the city of Oslo. At the beginning of the 20th century, pollution was limited to the coastal waters and the harbor area of Oslo, in the vicinity of sewer outlets. High bacteria content caused a health hazard that city authorities attempted to reduce by constructing a sewerage system, including intercepting sewers and wastewater-treatment plants. Due to population growth, the impact area of increasing wastewater loading expanded. The entire inner Oslofjord was found to be affected in the 1930s. Scientific studies linked municipal sewage discharges to an increase in the algal production. In the 1940s, the bottom layers were found to be anoxic. The Oslo sewerage authorities were aware of the fjord's pollution, but regarded organic matter as the major problem and the activated sludge method as the best solution. The role of nutrients was not commonly acknowledged until in the late 1960s. Phosphorus removal was taken into use in the 1970s, and nitrogen removal was introduced in the late 1990s. Removal of nutrients has resulted in the slow recovery of the fjord.
Modelling treated waste disposal in Port Phillip Bay and Bass Strait biogeochemical and physical removal.	Large cities, such as Melbourne, generate substantial quantities of sewage, which, after treatment, must be disposed. Melbourne's sewage is disposed via two routes, that treated at the Western Treatment Plant (WTP) is discharged in enclosed Port Phillip Bay, while the Boags Rock outfall empties into the exposed Bass Strait. In Port Phillip Bay biogeochemical processes control the fate of waste, while in the Bass Strait physical mixing rapidly disperses the waste. These different processes require very different ecosystem models. Port Phillip Bay requires detailed modelling of water-column and in-sediment processes, in particular detailed models of recycling processes, and also modelling of benthos-water-column interactions. Interaction of these components gives the model a nonlinear response to change in load. The Bass Strait ecosystem model is simple with no modelling of the sediment and limited modelling of water-column recycling. This model's behaviour is largely controlled by the physical environment.
Evapotranspiration for domestic wastewater reuse in remote indigenous communities of Australia.	In the past sewage ponding in indigenous settlements was commonplace as a result of overcrowding combined with inappropriate septic tank and leach drain design, installation and operation. The response over the past 10 years has been to develop reticulated sewerage systems to lagoons when the funds become available. These are often successful in terms of operation, improved public health and low maintenance but are expensive and wasteful of limited water supplies. Evapotranspiration (ET) is an effective method for on-site domestic effluent disposal in areas of Western Australia with soils of low permeability. Evapotranspiration systems have been established in a number of communities both for research/demonstration and as specified by architects. The systems usually follow two septic tanks for the disposal of all domestic effluent. A case study will be presented for a remote indigenous community where the ET systems installed for greywater only have been monitored over the last two years since installation. The use of evapotranspiration has enabled reuse of effluent for successful examples of revegetation and food production and points to the need for a holistic approach to design and service delivery in these communities that includes a total environmental management plan.
Environmental conditions and pathogen removal in macrophyte- and algal-based domestic wastewater treatment systems.	The environmental conditions and pathogen removal in macrophyte (Pistia stratiotes and Lemna paucicostata) and algal-based wastewater treatment systems were determined over a period of 29 days under tropical conditions. The experiment was conducted on a batch scale in 4.5 plastic containers immersed in moist sand beds. A control of raw sewage stored under dark conditions was included. Environmental conditions such as pH, temperature DO and conductivity and heterotrophic and faecal enterococci populations were monitored five times a week at 8, 12 and 20 GMT. BOD was monitored once a week for five weeks. Average temperatures within the systems ranged between 28.3 degrees C in the control to 30.6 degrees C in the algal-based system. Low pH levels of pH of 4.5 and DO levels of 3 mg/L were recorded in the water lettuce treatment systems. High pH levels around 10.5 and DO levels of about 20 mg/L were observed in the algal-based system. The control and duckweed system remained neutral. All treatment systems performed equally well in pathogen removal and BOD reduction. The BOD decreased from 130 mg/L to 5.0, 7.5, 10 and 15 mg/L in the duckweed, water lettuce, control and algal based treatment systems respectively. The faecal enterococci population decreased from 1.18 x 10(5) /ml to values below 100/ml in all treatment systems.
Sustainable development in pollution control and the role of anaerobic treatment.	The increasing scarcity of clean water sets the need for appropriate management of available water resources. Particularly regions suffering from a lack of water urgently need integrated environmental protection and resource conservation (EP and RC) technologies in order to enable effective management of the available water resources. EP and RC-concepts focus on pollution prevention and on a minimum of consumptive use of energy, chemicals, and water in pollution abatement and a maximum of re-use of treated wastewater, by-products and residues produced in the treatment of waste and wastewater. Consequently, by implementing these concepts, waste(water)s like sewage and industrial effluents become an important source of water, fertilisers, soil conditioners and (frequently) energy instead of a social threat. In addition, a bridge is made between environmental protection and agriculture practice, stimulating (urban) agriculture in the neighbourhood of large cities. Anaerobic treatment is considered as the core technology for mineralising organic compounds in waste(water) streams. Additional technologies are required to comply with the reuse criteria. Some examples of possible EP and RC concepts, using the anaerobic treatment technology for the reclamation of domestic sewage are discussed.
Water recycling: a major new initiative for Melbourne--crucial for a sustainable future.	Melbourne Water has adopted a challenging target of recycling 20 per cent of treated effluent from Melbourne's two major sewerage treatment plants by 2010. This target was adopted in response to key drivers for water recycling in the Melbourne region such as: strong support for conserving water resources and protecting marine environments; acknowledgment of recycled water as a valuable resource; greater emphasis on environmental issues and sustainable management principles; and opportunities to increase demand for recycled water through effective planning mechanisms. Issues that must be effectively addressed to meet the target include: managing public perceptions of recycled water; health and environmental concerns; lack of consensus among government agencies; high up-front costs of infrastructure; and prices of other sources of water supply not currently true costed. Melbourne Water has identified the following factors as critical in determining the success of recycling strategy: ability to demonstrate that water recycling will be important in terms of long term water cycle management; effective stakeholder consultation; gaining government support; establishing long-term, guaranteed markets for recycled water; implementing well planned, large scale recycling schemes; ability to provide a product that meets customer needs; regulatory approval; and implementation of a system that is economically viable. Water recycling initiatives are being investigated on household, local and regional levels. Over 10 proposals that will contribute to the 20 per cent recycled water target from the regional treatment plants are under various stages of development. Melbourne Water's commitment to recycling within a total water cycle management context is a vital component of this major new initiative for Melbourne and is crucial for a sustainable future.
Wastewater services for small communities.	Connection to centralised regional sewage systems has been too expensive for small-dispersed communities, and these townships have traditionally been serviced by on-site septic tank systems. The conventional on-site system in Australia has consisted of an anaerobic holding tank followed by adsorption trenches. This technique relies heavily on the uptake of nutrients by plants for effective removal of nitrogen and phosphorus from the effluent, and is very seasonal in its efficiency. Hence, as these small communities have grown in size, the environmental effects of the septic tank discharges have become a problem. In locations throughout Australia, such as rural Victoria and along the Hawkesbury-Nepean River, septic tanks as being replaced with the transport of sewage to regional treatment plants. For some isolated communities, this can mean spending 20,000 dollars-40,000 dollars/household, as opposed to more common connection prices of 7,000 dollars/household. This paper explores some alternative options that might be suitable for these small communities, and attempts to identify solutions that provide acceptable environmental outcomes at lower cost. The types of alternative systems that are assessed in the paper include local treatment systems, separate blackwater and greywater collection and treatment systems both with and without non-potable water recycling, a small township scale treatment plant compared to either existing septic tank systems or pumping to a remote regional treatment facility. The work demonstrated the benefits of a scenario analysis approach for the assessment of a range of alternative systems. It demonstrated that some of the alternatives systems can achieve better than 90% reductions in the discharge of nutrients to the environment at significantly lower cost than removing the wastewater to a remote regional treatment plant. These concepts allow wastewater to be retained within a community allowing for local reuse of treated effluent.
Integrated water cycle planning for towns in New South Wales, Australia.	Integration means different things to different people and as a consequence appears to only partially deliver on promised outcomes. For effective integrated water cycle management these outcomes should include improved water use efficiency, less waste, environmental sustainability, and provide secure and reliable supply to meet social and economic needs. The objective of integration is the management and combination of all these outcomes as part of a whole, so as to provide better outcomes than would be expected by managing the parts independently. Integration is also a consequence of the Water Reforms embarked on by the NSW State Government in 1995. The key goals of the reforms are clean and healthy rivers and groundwaters, and the establishment of more secure water entitlements for users. They are also essential for meeting the Council of Australian Government (COAG) water management strategies. The policies and guidelines that formed the NSW Water Reforms were the basis of the Water Management Act 2000 (NSW) (WMA) which is the legislative framework for water management in NSW. The NSW Department of Land and Water Conservation has developed an approach to integrated water cycle management for rural centres in NSW based on a catchment and policy context. This approach includes consideration of catchment wide needs and issues, environmental sustainability, government policy and community objectives in the development of an integrated water cycle plan. The approach provides for a transparent assessment of priorities and how to deal with them, and while specific to urban centres, could easily be expanded for use in the management of the whole of the catchment water cycle. Integration of the water cycle is expected to offer benefits to the local environment, community and economy. For instance, any unused proportion of an urban centre's water entitlement, or an offset against this entitlement created through returned flows (such as via good quality sewage effluent discharge to a river), can provide a surplus which is available to be traded on an annual basis. Further, improved demand management within an urban centre can be expected to result in a reduction in abstraction against the licence entitlement. This may result in the increased availability of in-stream water for environmental or other purposes and is expected to increase the economic value of returned water. Improved water use efficiencies are also expected to result in reduced capital works (and their associated costs) as the efficiency of service delivery and resource use improves. In this paper an example of the application of this process is provided and the outcomes discussed.
Buffer distances for on-site sewage systems in Sydney's drinking water catchments.	Pathogens and nutrients released from on-site sewage systems represent a risk to surface and ground water quality, particularly where there are sensitive receiving waters such as in drinking water catchments. Buffer zones between on-site systems and waterways are one barrier used to protect water quality. The increased time and distance they provide increases the opportunities for the effluent purification functions of the soil to occur. A risk management model is proposed to assess the efficacy of the buffer zones in Sydney's drinking water catchments. The model is the basis for the development of performance based setback distances for on-site systems from waterways, and incorporates stochastic analysis of pathogen and nutrient transport in the environment and consideration of the effluent quality variability from on-site systems. Catchment-scale integration of contaminant transport is employed to facilitate a risk assessment of on-site systems. The risk management model also allows for the impact of on-site system management and maintenance on catchment water quality to be assessed through scenario building and feedback mechanisms.
Accounting for water quality effects of future urbanization: diffuse pollution loads estimates and control in Mantua's lakes (Italy).	The three shallow lakes of Mantua (Upper, Middle and Lower) formed by the Mincio River are today classified by Italian water authorities as sensitive areas, after, in the second half of the 20th century, the hydrologic regime of the lakes was heavily modified, and the influence of industrial activities operating in the 1960s--without much environmental consideration--created a substantial decline in the water quality of the lakes. The City of Mantua is one of the most vital industrial centers of Northern Italy, and development plans are under way, that should approximately double the extension of the urban and industrial area within the next 20 years. This paper deals with estimating the effects of the aforementioned urbanization on the future water quality of the three lakes.
The vortex concentrator for suspended solids treatment.	The use of vortex concentrators is becoming increasingly popular for suspended solids reduction in combined sewer overflows and stormwater. This study is a laboratory investigation of the use of vortex concentrators to reduce the solids concentration of synthesized stormwater. The synthesized stormwater was made with water and addition of particles; sand, granular activated carbon, and sewer sediments. The vortex concentrator was made of acryl resin 300 mm in diameter. To determine the efficiency for various influent suspended solids (SS) concentrations, tests were performed with different SS concentrations. The samples were taken simultaneously at the influent storage tank and effluent tank, and measured SS concentrations. The range of surface loading rates were 120 to 850 m3/m2/day, and influent SS concentrations were varied from 300 to 5,000 mg/L. To determine the optimum coagulant dosage, jar tests were conducted with coagulants such as PAM and PAC. It was found that optimum coagulant and its dosage were PAM and 2 mg/L. The overall SS removal efficiency of the vortex concentrator for typical stormwater was estimated at about 65%. With an increase of SS concentration, the removal efficiency was increased. Since the SS concentration of stormwater was higher than 1,000 mg/L, the removal efficiency of the vortex concentrator for stormwater could be estimated to be 65-70%. The SS removal efficiency was increased with an increase of retention time, and the optimum retention time was 0.15-1.0 minutes. With an increase of the foul to overflow Q(F)/Q(o), a key parameter for vortex concentrator operation, the removal efficiency was increased. An alternative solution to improve treatment efficiency might be to set a follow-up retention basin. Based on a series of settling tests on the treated overflow water from the vortex concentrator, 5 to 10 minutes hydraulic retention time in a follow-up retention basin would substantially improve the results.
Changes in water quality parameters due to in-sewer processes.	Combined sewer systems contain a large number of organic and inorganic pollutants from both domestic and industrial sources. These pollutants are often retained within the combined sewer system for significant lengths of time before entering sewage treatment works, or being spilt to a watercourse via a combined sewer overflow (CSO) during storm conditions. Currently little knowledge exists concerning the effects of in sewer processes on pollutants. Understanding of in-sewer processes is important for the effective and efficient design of treatment works and CSO chambers and for impact assessments on receiving waters. A series of studies covering storm and dry weather flow conditions were undertaken with the aim of investigating the nature of in-sewer processes. These studies consisted of marking a body of water with a fluorescent tracer. The tracer was then monitored at a series of downstream sites, and discrete samples collected from the body of water as it progressed through the sewer. The samples were analysed for water quality parameters and these results investigated in tandem with the detailed hydraulic information gained through the tracer studies. The results highlight the hydraulic differences between storm and dry weather conditions such as increased travel times and mixing under storm conditions. The Advection Dispersion Equation (ADE) and Aggregated Dead Zone (ADZ) model parameters have been quantified for the tracer data. The ADE mixing coefficient is shown to increase by an order of magnitude for storm conditions. The ADZ dispersive fraction parameter is shown to be approximately constant with flow. Chemical reactions and decay within the sewer system were found to be consistent with oxygen limitation.
Research of the flow procedures in a pressure sewer system.	At the Institute of Land Reclamation, Hydrology and Sanitary Engineering of the University at Rostock the pressure and flow ratios are examined within a measuring section in the pressure dewatering system on the Darss peninsula. The objective of the research project is the knowledge upgrade about the highly unsteady hydraulic conditions in a pressure sewer system. This paper firstly presents the method and the dimensioning of pressure dewatering systems, which can be done using either the peak effluent method or the statistical method; the examination program will be explained. The examination includes pressure difference measuring with two pressure meters and flow data measuring via magnetic-inductive flow meters. Additionally the pump running times of 15 pumping stations, as well as the compressor action of the pressure pipe rinsing station are continuously and temporarily recorded and saved. Finally the measuring results which provide initial information about the pressure and flow conditions in a pressure dewatering system will be presented. The effects of the rinsing, the low pressure differences, the air cushions, the seasonal differences as well as the daily development graphs of the wastewater production are all clearly visible.
Prevention of odour emergence in sewage networks.	Through increasing central development and through the decrease of specific wastewater production, wastewater systems are more and more prone to odour and corrosion problems. Hydrogen sulphide is produced, particularly in anaerobic flow stretches, which will then escape at turbulent places because of change in the flow direction and create odour harassment. Of particular importance in this respect are the transferring shafts after rising mains. The empirical approaches used for the estimation of the assumed sulphide concentrations yield considerable differences in the calculation and must therefore be used with care. This report presents a methodology for the co-ordination of odour- and corrosion-reducing measures which also includes the area of complaint management. It is crucially important to fine-tune the necessary measures (for instance the application of operational or chemical/biological methods) to the specific frame conditions. The practical comparison of the additional dosage of external water, iron and nitrate served to test the efficiency of these methods. The dosage of iron and nitrate led to considerable reductions in H2S content at the transferring shaft. The online measurement of the spectral adsorption coefficient (SAC) could become one control parameter for saving chemicals. It should be pointed out that it is necessary to consider the relevant measures and effects of odour and corrosion production during the planning stage--from the creation of the development plan of cities and communities. Through the selection of the wastewater disposal method to the planning of details. Moreover, the relevant financial means for these measures must be included in the economic plan.
Real time control of a combined sewer system using radar-measured precipitation--results of the pilot study.	Emschergenossenschaft and Lippeverband have developed a method to use radar-measured precipitation as an input for a real-time control of a combined sewer system containing several overflow structures. Two real-time control strategies have been developed and tested, one is solely volume-based, the other is volume and pollution-based. The system has been implemented in a pilot study in Gelsenkirchen, Germany. During the project the system was optimised and is now in constant operation. It was found, that the volume of combined sewage overflow could be reduced by 5 per cent per year. This was also found in simulations carried out in similar catchment areas. Most of the potential of improvement can already be achieved by local pollution-based control strategies.
Short-term tests with a pilot sewage plant and biofilm reactors for the biological degradation of the pharmaceutical compounds clofibric acid, ibuprofen, and diclofenac.	The biodegradation of three active compounds of pharmaceuticals clofibric acid, ibuprofen, and diclofenac was investigated in short-term tests with a pilot sewage plant (PSP) and biofilm reactors (BFR, oxic and anoxic) as model systems for municipal sewage treatment. The PSP was characterized with respect to mixing behavior, the BFR with respect to biofilm content and sorption of the pharmaceutical compounds. The short-term experiments were carried out for 55 h in the PSP and for 48 h in the BFR. The concentration of the pharmaceuticals was in the microgram per liter range in presence of readily biodegradable substances in the milligram per liter range. Therefore, a too short time period and too low concentration to promote adaption of the microorganisms were applied. Under the operating conditions applied the biodegradation of the lipid lowering agent clofibric acid and the analgesic agents ibuprofen and diclofenac in the oxic BFR resembled that in the PSP. Clofibric acid and diclofenac were not eliminated and reached a level of approximately 95% of their initial concentration, whereas the concentration of ibuprofen was decreased to approximately 40% in the PSP and to approximately 35% in the oxic BFR. Both systems showed, therefore, an inherent ability for ibuprofen biodegradation. Elimination in the anoxic BFR resulted in a decrease of the concentration of all three substances to values between 60 and 80% of their initial concentration. In contrast to the PSP acetone revealed as inhibitor in the BFR. In both systems acetone was not degraded in the short-term tests.
Granule development in a split-feed anaerobic baffled reactor.	Operating anaerobic reactors at high organic loading rates during start-up can lead to instability, accumulation of volatile fatty acids and low pH, such problems being exacerbated in reactors that exhibit plug-flow characteristics. Moreover, plug-flow conditions increase the exposure of biomass to any toxic components in the feed. To overcome these limitations, an anaerobic baffled reactor (ABR), a reactor exhibiting partial plug-flow characteristics, was modified by splitting the feed between the individual compartments to produce the split-feed ABR (SFABR). Consequently, more favourable conditions were created in the initial compartments, such as lower, longer hydraulic retention time and longer cell retention time; conditions in the final compartments were also improved by the increased food availability for microorganisms. Other benefits included better gas mixing characteristics as a result of the more balanced gas production across the reactor. Granule development was compared in SFABR and normally fed ABR by analysing sludge samples, taken during start-up and continuous operation, using scanning electron microscopy. Photomicrographs allowed tentative conclusions to be made concerning the effect of split-feeding on the distribution of bacterial populations within the granule architecture and the role of extracellular polymers on granule formation.
Effects of pulp mill solids and three composts on early growth of tomatoes.	Compost has been proposed as a means of simultaneously diverting organic materials from landfills while producing a valuable product that improves tilth, organic matter content and nutrient supply of agricultural soils. Composts manufactured from different source materials may have markedly different properties however, even if they meet all regulatory requirements. We compared the capacity of composts made from three different combinations of organic wastes (horse manure and bedding, mink farm wastes, municipal solid waste (MSW) and sewage sludge) along with clarifier solids from a chemo-thermomechanical pulp mill, to enhance the growth of tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum L.) seedlings grown in nutrient-poor organic potting soil. Germination and seedling emergence of tomatoes, cress (Lapidium sativum L.) or radish (Raphanus sativus L.) were tested to assess phytotoxicity of the four amendments. Mink farm compost and horse manure compost stimulated root and shoot growth of tomato seedlings but MSW compost and pulp mill solids were strongly inhibitory. MSW compost and unamended potting soil also inhibited seedling emergence and pulp mill solids produced stunting and deformities in radish and cress seedlings. Both toxic constituents and nutrient imbalances may be responsible for the growth-inhibiting effects of these amendments. Application of pulp mill solids to agricultural soil without composting may lead to deleterious effects on vegetable crops.
Ecotoxicological impact of pharmaceuticals found in treated wastewaters: study of carbamazepine, clofibric acid, and diclofenac.	In four countries (France, Greece, Italy, and Sweden) occurrence in sewage treatment plant (STP) effluents and ecotoxicity of the pharmaceuticals carbamazepine, clofibric acid, and diclofenac were investigated. Bioassays were performed on bacteria, algae, microcrustaceans, and fishes in order to calculate their predicted no-effect concentrations (PNEC) and to perform a first approach of risk characterization. For this aim, risk has been estimated by the predicted environmental concentration/PNEC ratio and the measured environmental concentration/PNEC ratio. First, regarding the PNEC, carbamazepine appears to be the more hazardous compound. Second, even though it is demonstrated that carbamazepine, clofibric acid, and diclofenac have been detected in effluents, only carbamazepine have been detected in all sewage treatment plants with the greatest concentrations. Third, risk quotients greater than unity were calculated only for carbamazepine, suggesting that risk for the water compartment is expected.
Treatment of wastewater from a toilet for reclamation with a airlift external recirculated membrane bioreactor]	A new type membrane bioreactor(MBR) coupled with a separated immersed membrane unit was studied for treatment of wastewater from a toilet and for reclamation of the treated water. The results showed that the effluent of the MBR was stable with COD < 47 mg/L, BOD5 < 8.5 mg/L, NH3-N < 20 mg/L, when the influent concentration was COD 440-970 mg/L, BOD5 307-612 mg/L, NH3-N 59-111 mg/L. The treated water could meet the standard of reused water for toilet washing issued by the Ministry of Construction P.R. China. The sludge loading, volume loading, HRT and their impaction to COD of effluent were studied. Appropriate sludge loading, volume loading were respectively 0.1 kg/(kg.d), 1 kg/(m3.d) and HRT 7-8 hour. The effect of mixed liquid suspendend solid(MLSS), temperature and permeating time of the MBR to the membrane fluxes were discussed in this paper.
Changing perspectives on the importance of urban phosphorus inputs as the cause of nutrient enrichment in Lough Neagh.	The scale and chronology of the phosphorus (P) enrichment of Lough Neagh, a large hypertrophic lake, was assessed using, as enrichment proxies, published palaeocological studies on diatoms and chironomid head capsules preserved in the lake sediments and, from 1974, monitoring data from the lake and its inflowing rivers. Enrichment commenced in 1880, and the scale and chronology of the diatom and chironomid records were similar up to 1960, but in the 1960s, chironomid accumulation rates increased dramatically, whereas diatom rates remained unchanged. From subsequent lake monitoring, the absence of a diatom response after 1960 was attributed to silica limitation so that P could be considered as the driver of increased diatom production only up to 1960. Using a coefficient for the demand for P by diatoms of 4 microg P mg SiO(2)(-1), it was calculated that the increased diatom production between 1881 and 1961 required an increase in lake P of 26 microg P l(-1). This value is close to the predicted increase of 22.5 microg P l(-1) in the lake caused by inputs of P from sewage treatment works and septic tanks. There was no evidence that diffuse source P contributed to enrichment over this period. Enrichment up to 1960 appears modest in comparison to subsequent years. From 1961 to 1974, lake P was estimated to have increased by 62 microg P l(-1), but only 25 microg P l(-1) of this increase was attributable to greater loadings of P from urban and septic tank sources. The enrichment response of chironomids at this time was also much greater than expected from a regression-derived relationship between urban P inputs and chironomid accumulation rates suggesting additional sources of P. The larger than expected increase in lake P was attributed to the onset of a significant internal loading of P and the commencement of an increase in diffuse source loadings of P. River monitoring has shown that diffuse P has increased steadily since 1974, more than counterbalancing a 40% reduction in urban P loadings that has taken place since 1980. By the end of the 20th century urban sources contributed only 19.7% of inflow P to Lough Neagh but lake P was 145 microg P l(-1) compared to an estimated concentration of 20 microg P l(-1) in 1881. Failure to control diffuse P sources has therefore been instrumental in the continued increase of lake P in Lough Neagh.
Effect of household sewage on the fertility and size of Ceriodaphnia affinis Lill. in series of generations]	Seven generations of Ceriodaphnia affinis were kept in water of a household sewer. No animal death was observed in the experiment. In a series of generations, the fertility as well as dimensions of newborn water fleas decreased starting from the third generation. These indices in the subsequent generations changed in parallel with the control line.
Indicators for marine environment: a preliminary application of an integrated approach]	A draft set of indicators was selected to make a state assessment of Italian coastal environment, based upon DPSIR scheme (driving, pressure, state, impact, response), a method which can describe different components of complex environmental systems. The selected indicators are the followings: population and tourism (driving); manufacturing, potential organic loads, trophic loads, maritime transport, fishing fleet, fishing intensity, maricolture (pressure); trophic index TRIX, microbiological quality index IQB (state); bathing water quality (impact); waste water treatment budget, register of sewers, protected areas (response). A brief description is presented for each indicator, in relation to their most important features, construction modalities and environmental meaning.
Integrated water quality management for drinking water of good quality.	The Nagoya Waterworks and Sewerage Bureau has developed original supporting tools for the systematic and cost-effective management of problem solving. An environmental information map and prediction of pollutant reaching are used for rapid and appropriate proper countermeasures against water quality accidents in the source area. In disinfection byproduct control a method for estimating trihalomethane (THM) contents was effective for the complement of their observations. Surrogate indicators such as turbidity and conductivity that could be measured continuously also could complement water quality items measured monthly. A processing tool of voluminous data was practical for rapid judgment of water quality. Systematic monitoring was established for stricter turbidity control for measures against Cryptosporidium and keeping residual chlorine stable in the service area.
Application of composted urban residue enhanced the performance of afforested shrub species in a degraded semiarid land.	Improvement of physical-chemical soil quality is a key step for carrying out revegetation programs of degraded lands in Mediterranean semiarid areas. Organic residue addition may restore the quality of these areas. A field experiment was conducted in a silt-loam soil (Typic Petrocalcid) from a degraded semiarid Mediterranean area to evaluate the effect of the addition of a composted urban residue on soil aggregate stability, bulk density and chemical properties and on the establishment of Pistacia lentiscus and Retama sphaerocarpa seedlings. The composted residue was applied at a rate of 6.7 kg m(-2) before planting. The nutrient content (NPK), total organic C and water soluble C were increased and bulk density was decreased, in the rhizosphere soil of both shrub species, by the composted residue. The addition of composted residue significantly increased the soil aggregate stability by about 22% for both shrub species. The beneficial effect of the composted residue on soil quality still persisted 18 months after addition. Eighteen months after planting, the addition of composted residue to soil had increased significantly the production of shoot biomass by P. lentiscus and R. sphaerocarpa, by about 160% and 320% respectively, compared to control values. Composted residue addition to soil can be considered an effective preparation method of a degraded area for carrying out successful revegetation programs with Mediterranean shrubs under semiarid conditions.
Stable carbon and nitrogen isotope signatures indicate recovery of marine biota from sewage pollution at Moa Point, New Zealand.	Stable carbon and nitrogen isotopes have been used to assess sewage contamination of a sewage outfall, discharging milli-screened effluent into Moa Point Bay, New Zealand, and monitor the recovery of flora and fauna after the outfall's closure. An initial study characterising the extent of the discharge and the effects on seaweed (Ulva lactuca L.), blue mussels (Mytilus galloprovincialis) and limpets (Cellana denticulata) from the area, showed effects of the sewage discharge on flora and fauna were localised within in the bay. The immediate area surrounding the discharge area was found to contain limited biodiversity, with an abundance of Ulva lactuca, a bright green lettuce-like seaweed, typically found in areas with high nutrient input, limpets and small blue mussels. The nitrogen isotopic signature (delta15N) is shown to be a good tracer of sewage pollution in seaweed and associated grazers (i.e. limpets) as a result of the increased contribution of urea and ammonia to seawater nitrogen derived from the effluent. The carbon isotopic signature (delta13C) is suggested as a more appropriate sewage tracer for mussels, which filter feed the effluent's particulate organic matter from the water. Lower carbon:nitrogen ratios were found in Ulva lactuca sampled from around the outfall region compared to uncontaminated control sites. However carbon:nitrogen ratios do not vary significantly amongst shellfish species. After closure, monitoring continued for 9 months and showed that the carbon and nitrogen isotopic signatures of algae (Ulva lactuca L.) returned to similar control site levels within 3 months. Limpet and blue mussels (Cellana denticulata and Mytilus galloprovincialis) showed slower recovery times than the Ulva lactuca, with detectable levels of the sewage-derived carbon and nitrogen remaining in the animal's tissue for up to 9 months.
Single-cell protein profiling of wastewater enterobacterial communities predicts disinfection efficiency.	The efficiency of enterobacterial disinfection is dependent largely on enterobacterial community physiology. However, the relationship between enterobacterial community physiology and wastewater processing is unclear. The purpose of this study was to investigate this relationship. The influence of wastewater treatment processes on enterobacterial community physiology was examined at the single-cell level by using culture-independent methods. Intracellular concentrations of two conserved proteins, the growth-related protein Fis and the stationary-phase protein Dps, were analyzed by epifluoresence microscopy of uncultivated cells by using enterobacterial group-specific polyclonal fluorochrome-coupled antibodies. Enterobacterial single-cell community protein profiles were distinct for different types of biological treatment. The differences were not apparent when bulk methods of protein analysis were used. Trickling filter wastewater yielded Fis-enriched communities compared to the communities in submerged aeration basin wastewater. Community differences in Fis and Dps contents were used to predict disinfection efficiency. Disinfection of community samples by heat exposure combined with cultivation in selective media confirmed that enterobacterial communities exhibited significant differences in sensitivity to disinfection. These findings provide strategies that can be used to increase treatment plant performance, reduce the enterobacterial content in municipal wastewater, and minimize the release of disinfection by-products into receiving water.
Contaminant risks from biosolids land application: contemporary organic contaminant levels in digested sewage sludge from five treatment plants in Greater Vancouver, British Columbia.	This study examines the potential for environmental risks due to organic contaminants at sewage sludge application sites, and documents metals and various potential organic contaminants (volatile organics, chlorinated pesticides, PCBs, dioxins/furans, extractable petroleum hydrocarbons, PAHs, phenols, and others) in current production biosolids from five wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) within the Greater Vancouver Regional District (GVRD). There has been greater focus in Europe, North America and elsewhere on metals accumulation in biosolids-amended soil than on organic substances, with the exception of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and polychlorinated dibenzofurans. Another objective, therefore, was to evaluate the extent to which management of biosolids re-use based on metal/metalloid levels coincidentally minimizes environmental risks from organic contaminants. Historical-use contaminants such as chlorophenols, PCBs, and chlorinated pesticides were not detected at environmentally relevant concentrations in any of the 36 fresh biosolids samples, and appear to have virtually eliminated from sanitary collection system inputs. The few organic contaminants found in freshly produced biosolids samples that exhibited high concentrations relative to British Columbia and Canadian soil quality benchmarks included p-cresol, phenol, phenanthrene, pyrene, naphthalene, and heavy extractable petroleum hydrocarbons (HEPHs--nCl9-C34 effective carbon chain length). It was concluded that, with the exception of these petroleum hydrocarbon constituents or their microbial metabolites, the mixing of biosolids with uncontaminated soils during land application and based on the known metal concentrations in biosolids from the Greater Vancouver WWTPs investigated provides adequate protection against the environmental risks associated with organic substances such as dioxins and furans, phthalate esters, or volatile organics. Unlike many other organic contaminants, the concentrations of petroleum hydrocarbon derived substances in biosolids has not decreased within the last decade or more in the WWTPs studied, and--unlike persistent chlorinated compounds--the associated PAHs and other hydrocarbon constituents merit careful consideration, especially in the context of repeated land-application of biosolid.
Feeding of benthic foraminifera on diatoms and sewage-derived organic matter: an experimental application of lipid biomarker techniques.	Foraminiferal ecology at sewage outfalls has been investigated in numerous field studies over the last 30 years. Foraminifera have been frequently used as biomonitors of sewage pollution since they are both abundant and ubiquitous. Sewage outfalls have been demonstrated to have both positive and negative effects on adjacent foraminiferal populations, but it has never been shown conclusively why sewage affects foraminifera in these ways. Such information on the impact mechanisms of sewage pollution is essential if foraminifera are to be used as sewage pollution biomonitors, and also to understand the ecology of these important protists. One possible cause of a positive effect is the direct consumption of sewage-derived particulate organic matter (POM) by the foraminifera themselves. However this hypothesis has never been tested experimentally. Here, lipid (fatty acid and sterol) biomarker techniques were applied to study the ingestion of two potential food items by the foraminiferan Haynesina germanica in the laboratory. An experiment was conducted to confirm that the laboratory conditions were conducive to the survival and feeding of the foraminifera. In this experiment, foraminifera were provided with the pennate diatom Phaeodactylum tricornutum, which was considered to be a suitable food source. After 2 weeks, a four-fold increase in the levels of the diatom fatty acid biomarker, 20:5(n-3), in the foraminifera suggested that they had fed actively on the diatoms and survived under the experimental conditions. These experimental conditions were used in the main experiment, where foraminifera were fed the POM from sewage. Lipid biomarker analysis indicated that H. germanica did not consume secondary treated sewage-derived POM. Neither fatty acid profiles in the sewage nor coprostanol, the diagnostic human faecal sterol, were detected in foraminifera after exposure to the potential sewage food source. However, foraminifera may have consumed bacteria associated with the sewage in the experiment. The findings are discussed in terms of current EU legislation on sewage treatment that has affected the composition of sewage discharges, and therefore possibly reduced the nutritive value of sewage to the marine benthos.
Bacteriologic and virologic hygienic studies on waste water ponds]	Many problems arise with the overflow of wastewater after heavy rainfalls. Therefore a research project was started to investigate the possibilities of biological treatment for such sporadically occurring sewage. In this paper a helophyte bed is compared with a simple wastewater pond regarding virological and bacteriological hygiene parameters. The number of coliphages is an evident indicator for enteroviruses and its enumeration can be done easily and safely. It is suggested that the kind of sewage treatment described here is not suitable for municipal wastewater but for domestic sewage in the countryside. Furthermore the quantification of coliphages should become a constant part of routine hygiene examination.
Death scene gas analysis in suspected methane asphyxia.	Two cases of methane asphyxia occurring in two boys (age 11 and 12 years) who were found at the bottom of a 37-ft (11.1-m)-deep sewer shaft are described. Attempted resuscitation of the first patient was unsuccessful and achieved only temporary stabilization of the second, who died 48 h after his discovery. Autopsies revealed relatively minor multifocal traumatic injuries, with evidence of hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy in the patient who survived for 2 days. Subsequent analysis of gas in the shaft revealed 21% oxygen at the surface, 14.3% at a depth of 5 ft (1.5 m), and only 4.8% at depths of 10 ft (3 m) and below. Other gases detected at the lower levels were methane, nitrogen, and carbon dioxide (4.3%). These cases demonstrate the value of atmospheric gas analysis in cases of possible methane asphyxia in confirming the presence of methane and in demonstrating levels of oxygen below that necessary to support life.
Use of cement dust in the manufacture of vitrified sewer pipes.	Waste by-pass cement dust was added in different percentages ranging from 2% to 10% to a standard mix for sewer pipes manufacture, as a substitute for expensive feldspar. It was found that a mix consisting of 45% kaolin, 36% ball clay, 9% grog and 10% by-pass dust and fired at a temperature of 1300 degrees C for 4 h yielded samples that meet the standards. It was possible to reach a water absorption of 4%, a modulus of rupture of 7.8 MPa and a resistance to acids and alkalis conforming with standard values. A test pipe was fabricated by vacuum extrusion using the suggested composition and was found to withstand a hydraulic pressure of 14 MPa for one minute without the appearance of any cracks.
Effect of continual application of two kinds sludge on enzyme activities and heavy metal concentrations in alluvial soil]	Pot culture experiments were conducted to study the effect of industrial and sewage sludge on some enzyme activities and heavy metal concentrations in alluvial soil. The results showed that the heavy metals in both industrial and sewage sludge were mainly non-exchangeable, and those in sewage sludge had a lower concentration but a higher bio-availability than in industrial sludge. The application of sludge could increase the activities of soil urease, polyphenol oxidase and neutral phosphatase, and the polyphenol oxidase and neutral phosphatase activities showed a reverse relationship with the concentrations of soil exchangeable Zn and Cu. Soil polyphenol oxidase and catalase activities could be used to indicate the Zn pollution in soil.
Facile reduction of arsenate in methanogenic sludge.	Due to the recent enactment of a stricter drinking water standard for arsenate, large quantities of arsenate-laden drinking water residuals will be disposed in municipal landfills. The objective of this study was to determine the role of methanogenic consortia on the conversion of arsenate. Methanogenic conditions commonly occur in mature municipal solid waste landfills. The results indicate the rapid and facile reduction of arsenate to arsenite in methanogenic sludge. Endogenous substrates in the sludge were sufficient to support the reductive biotransformation. However the rates of arsenate reduction were stimulated by the addition of exogenous electron donating substrates, such as H2, lactate or a mixture of volatile fatty acids. A selective methanogenic inhibitor stimulated arsenate reduction in microcosms supplied with H2, suggesting that methanogens competed with arsenate reducers for the electron donor. Rates of arsenate reduction increased with arsenate concentration up to 2 mM, higher concentrations were inhibitory. The electron shuttle, anthraquinone-2,6-disulfonate, used as a model of humic quinone moieties, was shown to significantly increase rates of arsenate reduction at substoichiometric concentrations. The presence of sulfur compounds, sulfate and sulfide, did not affect the rate of arsenate transformation but lowered the yield of soluble arsenite, due to the precipitation of arsenite with sulfides. The results taken as a whole suggest that arsenate disposed into anaerobic environments may readily be converted to arsenite increasing the mobility of arsenic. The extent of the increased mobility will depend on the concentration of sulfides generated from sulfate reduction.
Optimum growth requirements of nitrifying consortia developed from treated sewage.	The optimum growth requirements of two nitrifying consortia developed from treated sewage by enrichment technique were determined by a series of experiments. There was total inhibition of nitrification at above 2.75 g l(-1) NH4(+)- N and 2.5 g l(-1) NO2(-)-N and the ammonia oxidizing consortium preferred a pH at 8.5 and the nitrite oxidizing consortium a pH of 7.5 as the optima for nitrification. Optimum temperatures were between 20 degrees and 30 degrees C for both the groups. As the rate of airflow was increased from 1 to 7 l/min, the build-up of NO2(-)-N increased 10-fold and the consumption of NO2(-)-N increased by a factor of 28.8 implying that the ammonia oxidizing consortium in a bioreactor required three times more aeration than that for nitrite oxidizers for expressing their full nitrifying potential. These data directly contribute for developing a fermentation process for the mass production of nitrifiers as well as for designing bioreactors for nitrifying sewage.
Nitrate in groundwater: an isotopic multi-tracer approach.	In spite of increasing efforts to reduce nitrogen inputs into groundwater from intensive agriculture, nitrate (NO3) remains one of the major pollutants of drinking-water resources worldwide. Determining the source(s) of NO3 contamination in groundwater is an important first step for improving groundwater quality by emission control, and it is with this aim that we investigated the viability of an isotopic multi-tracer approach (delta15N, delta11B, 87Sr/86Sr), in addition to conventional hydrogeologic analysis, in two small catchments of the Arguenon watershed (Brittany, France). The main anthropogenic sources (fertilizer, sewage effluent, and hog, cattle and poultry manure) were first characterized by their specific B, N and Sr isotope signatures, and compared to those observed in the ground- and surface waters. Chemical and isotopic evidence shows that both denitrification and mixing within the watershed have the effect of buffering NO3 contamination in the groundwater. Coupled delta11B, delta15N and 87Sr/86Sr results indicate that a large part of the NO3 contamination in the Arguenon watershed originates from the spreading of animal manure, with hog manure being a major contributor. Point sources, such as sewage effluents, contribute to the NO3 budget of the two watersheds.
Spatial distribution of pollution in an urban stormwater infiltration basin.	Infiltration basins are frequently used for stormwater drainage. Because stormwater is polluted in highly toxic compounds, assessment of pollution retention by infiltration basins is necessary. Indeed, if basins are not effective in trapping pollution, deep soil and groundwater may be contaminated. This study's objective is to investigate soil pollution in infiltration basins: spatial distribution of soil pollution, optimisation of the number of soil samples and a contamination indicator are presented. It is part of a global project on long-term impact of stormwater infiltration on groundwater. Soil sampling was done on a basin in suburban Lyon (France). Samples were collected at different depths and analysed for nutrients, heavy metals, hydrocarbons and grain size. Pollutant concentrations decrease rapidly with depth while pH, mineralisation and grain size increase. Sustainable metal concentrations are reached at a 30-cm depth, even after 14 years of operation; hydrocarbon pollution is deeper. Principal component analysis shows how pollutants affect each level. The topsoil is different from other levels. Three specifically located points are enough to estimate the mass of pollution trapped by the basin with a 26% error. The proposed contamination indicator is calculated using either average level concentrations or maximum level concentrations. In both cases, the topsoil layer appears polluted but evaluation of lower levels is dependent on the choice of input concentrations.
Sediment disturbance off the Tagus Estuary, Western Portugal: chronic contamination, sewage outfall operation and runoff events.	Sediment disturbance patterns in the coastal area off the Tagus Estuary (Portugal) have been assessed using a set of combined techniques. The potential sources of disturbance in the area include chronic contamination of the fine sediments originating from the estuary, a local input from a long-sea sewage outfall and occasional high runoff episodes following torrential rain. The Sediment Quality Triad approach, combining environmental chemistry (namely organic contaminants), macrofaunal benthic communities and laboratory sediment toxicity assays, was performed on sediment samples from 20 sites. The samples were collected before the outfall commenced operation and four years after commissioning, in order to evaluate the relative magnitudes of the three potential sources of disturbance. The sediment contamination created by the estuary was identified as the most important cause of reduced sediment quality, as disturbance in all three components of the Sediment Quality Triad were only found in a site located near the estuary.
Influence of the stabilisation of organic materials on their biopesticide effect in soils.	Some organic materials have shown a suppressive effect on several diseases induced by soilborne plant pathogens. We have carried out a laboratory experiment (microcosm) to ascertain the influence of the stabilisation process of sewage sludge on it biopesticide effect when Pythium ultimum or Phytophthora sp. were introduced to soil as pathogens for pea or pepper. When P. ultimum was introduced there was a 63.8% reduction in the weight of the stems grown in the control, 47.6% in the presence of sewage sludge, but only 24.7% with compost. The same biopesticide effect was evident from the weight of the roots. The biopesticide effect was also strong when compost was used as organic amendment in the presence of Phytophthora, as could be seen from stem and shoot weight and length. The data showed that the degree of stabilisation of the organic material (compost) had a positive influence on it biopesticide effect. The changes undergone by a soil after the addition of organic materials helped to explain the biopesticide effect of the amendment. The organic treatments reduced P. ultimum and Phytophthora sp. populations.
A sewage disposal failure as a cause of ascariasis and giardiasis epidemic in a family.	In monitoring the incidence of intestinal parasites in children and employees of a nursery the authors examined 31 children with 8 (25.81%) and 16 employees with 3 (18.75%) positive results. The authors wanted to examine also the family members of 8 positive children and 3 positive employees but except from the cleaner's family, (Ascaris lumburicoides, Enterobius vermicularis and Entamoeba coli) nobody accepted the offer. All 8 members of a large family except for Patient 1 (a cleaner) and her grandson were without clinical and laboratory findings. They constitute 3 independent families who lived in 1st category flats. On August 31 there was an extensive sewage disposal failure in the ground floor flat of Family II and the flat was flooded by sewage. All family members worked solidarily on cleaning and also the members of Family IV who are friends of Family II. As shown by clinical symptoms of 'virosis', during the pre-patent period and after an outbreak within 73-78 days, laboratory findings of the family members demonstrated a severe family infection equal to a epidemic of intestinal parasitosis. Ascaris lumbricoides was diagnosed in 8 family members (61.54%) and Giardia intestinalis in 7 family members (53.85%) involved in cleaning. Enterobius vermicularis was found in 2 and Etamoeba coli in 1 family member. In monitored persons, in extreme hygienic conditions during the failure and later, a mass contraction arose on the basis of infection. The fact, that family epidemic arose subsequently, proved, in contrast to sporadic findings in children and adults, a 6.4 and 3.3 times higher incidence of Ascaris lumbricoides and a 5.6 and 8.6 times higher incidence of Giardia intestinalis. The authors discus the reasons of incidence and also preventive measures in population. (Tab. 3, Ref. 29.).
Different molecular rearrangements in the integron of the IncP-1 beta resistance plasmid pB10 isolated from a wastewater treatment plant result in elevated beta-lactam resistance levels.	The multiresistance IncP-1 beta plasmid pB10 conferring resistance to ampicillin, streptomycin, sulfonamides, tetracycline and mercury ions was previously obtained from activated sludge bacteria by applying the exogenous isolation method with Pseudomonas sp. strain GFP2 as recipient. A pB10 derivative, designated pB10-1, occurred spontaneously and displays an extended NotI restriction fragment. From the pB10 nucleotide sequence, it is known that the corresponding NotI fragment of this plasmid contains a complete class 1 integron with an oxa2 and an orfE-like gene cassette. Sequencing of the integron-specific variable region present on pB10-1 revealed that a second copy of the oxa2 gene cassette has inserted downstream of the orfE-like cassette. Sequences flanking the second oxa2 cassette indicate that this cassette was excised from pB10 and reinserted at a new site in an integrase-catalyzed manner. Duplication of the oxa2 cassette is associated with a higher level of ampicillin resistance. Another pB10 derivative, designated pB10-2, conferring higher resistance to ampicillin, was shown to carry an IS10 insertion upstream of the oxa2 cassette. Since IS10 possesses a promoter-out activity, it can be assumed that the elevated ampicillin resistance level is due to enhanced transcription of the beta-lactamase gene.
The long-term nutrient accumulation with respect to anthropogenic impacts in the sediments from two freshwater marshes (Xianghai Wetlands, Northeast China).	Sediment cores, representing a range of watershed characteristics and anthropogenic impacts, were collected from two freshwater marshes at the Xianghai wetlands (Ramsar site no. 548) in order to trace the historical variation of nutrient accumulation. Cores were (210)Pb- and (137)Cs-dated, and these data were used to calculate sedimentation rates and sediment accumulation rates. Ranges of dry mass accumulation rates and sedimentation rates were 0.27-0.96 g m(-2)yr(-1) and 0.27-0.90 cm yr(-1), respectively. The effect of human activities on increased sediment accumulation rates was observed. Nutrients (TOC, N, P, and S) in sediment were analyzed and nutrient concentration and accumulation were compared in two marshes with different hydrologic regime: an "open" marsh (E-0) and a partly "closed" marsh (F-0). Differences in physical and chemical characteristics between sediments of "open" and partly "closed" marsh were also observed. The "open" marsh sequestered much higher amounts of TOC (1.82%), N (981.1 mg kg(-1)), P (212.17 mg kg(-1)), and S (759.32 mg kg(-1)) than partly "closed" marsh (TOC: 0.32%, N: 415.35 mg kg(-1), P: 139.64 mg kg(-1), and S: 624.45 mg kg(-1)), and the "open" marsh indicated a rather large historical variability of TOC, N, P, and S inputs from alluvial deposits. Nutrient inputs (2.16-251.80 g TOC m(-2) yr(-1), 0.43-20.12 g N m(-2) yr(-1), 0.39-3.03 g P m(-2) yr(-1), 1.60-15.13 g S m(-2) yr(-1)) into the Xianghai wetlands of China are in the high range compared with reported nutrient accumulation rates for freshwater marshes in USA. The vertical variation, particularly for N, P, and S indicated the input history of the nutrients of the Xianghai wetlands developed in three periods--before 1950s, 1950-1980s, and after 1980s. The ratios between anthropogenic and natural inputs showed that the relative anthropogenic inputs of TOC, N, P, and S have been severalfold (TOC: 1.68-11.21, N: 0.47-3.67, P: 0.24-1.36, and S: 1.46-2.96) greater than values of their natural inputs after 1980s. The result is probably attributable, in part, to two decades of surface coal mining activities, urban sewage, and agriculture runoff within the upstream region of the Huolin River. Our findings suggest that the degree of anthropogenic disturbance within the surrounding watershed regulates wetland sediment, TOC, N, P, and S accumulation.
Use of fecal steroids to infer the sources of fecal indicator bacteria in the Lower Santa Ana River Watershed, California: sewage is unlikely a significant source.	The Santa Ana River (SAR), CA and adjacent wetlands have been identified as potential sources of fecal indicator bacteria (FIB) to the surf zone at Huntington Beach, CA. A suite of fecal steroids, including coprostanol (COP), epicoprostanol (eCOP), cholesterol (CHOE), cholestanol (CHOA), alpha-cholestanone (aONE), beta-cholestanone (bONE), beta-sitosterol (bSIT), stigmasterol (STIG), stigmastanol (STAN), and campesterol (CAM), were used as chemical markers to examine whether sewage was a significant source of FIB within the lower Santa Ana River watershed. A total of 54 water samples were collected from three locations in the intertidal zone near the mouth of the Santa Ana River at different tidal stages. Steroid ratios in SAR samples were different from those found in raw and treated sewage from a local wastewater treatment plant or in nearby effluent plume and did not appear to be influenced by the sampling location, daily tides, and spring/neap tidal cycle. The characteristics of steroid ratios suggested a diagenetic ratherthan a biogenic source forthe COP content of the samples. The log-based concentrations of COP and FIB in the SAR samples were not significantly correlated, inconsistent with sewage being the source of FIB in the study area. In addition, multivariate statistical analysis showed that the concentrations of FIB were better correlated with bird fecal steroids than with the typical sewage sterols. The results implied that sewage was not a significant source of fecal steroids, and therefore perhaps FIB to the study area. Instead, birds may be one possible source of the intermittently high levels of FIB observed in the lower Santa Ana River watershed and the nearby surf zone.
Occurrence of microbial indicators and Clostridium perfringens in wastewater, water column samples, sediments, drinking water, and Weddell seal feces collected at McMurdo Station, Antarctica.	McMurdo Station, Antarctica, has discharged untreated sewage into McMurdo Sound for decades. Previous studies delineated the impacted area, which included the drinking water intake, by using total coliform and Clostridium perfringens concentrations. The estimation of risk to humans in contact with the impacted and potable waters may be greater than presumed, as these microbial indicators may not be the most appropriate for this environment. To address these concerns, concentrations of these and additional indicators (fecal coliforms, Escherichia coli, enterococci, coliphage, and enteroviruses) in the untreated wastewater, water column, and sediments of the impacted area and drinking water treatment facility and distribution system at McMurdo Station were determined. Fecal samples from Weddell seals in this area were also collected and analyzed for indicators. All drinking water samples were negative for indicators except for a single total coliform-positive sample. Total coliforms were present in water column samples at higher concentrations than other indicators. Fecal coliform and enterococcus concentrations were similar to each other and greater than those of other indicators in sediment samples closer to the discharge site. C. perfringens concentrations were higher in sediments at greater distances from the discharge site. Seal fecal samples contained concentrations of fecal coliforms, E. coli, enterococci, and C. perfringens similar to those found in untreated sewage. All samples were negative for enteroviruses. A wastewater treatment facility at McMurdo Station has started operation, and these data provide a baseline data set for monitoring the recovery of the impacted area. The contribution of seal feces to indicator concentrations in this area should be considered.
From sludge to resources through biosolids.	The paper gives an overview of the possibilities to achieve a more sustainable sludge management strategy by recovering and reusing valuable products as much as possible. Discussion separately deals with the recovery of products suitable for "material" uses and those for "energy" ones. Discussion on material recoveries includes organic matter, nutrients, carbon source, coagulant, bricks, pumice, slag, artificial lightweight aggregate (ALWA) and Portland cement. Regarding energy recovery, (i) conversion processes, including thermo-chemical conversion of dry sludge to oil, thermo-chemical liquefaction of wet sludge to oil and conversion/combustion processes, (ii) deep shaft wet air oxidation, and (iii) gasification processes, including starved air combustion, are outlined. Only general indications are given because the selection of an appropriate system for sludge management is strongly influenced by many other important factors, such as local economy and geography, climate, land use, regulatory constraints and public acceptance of the various practices. Also, the conventional and more traditional recycling options, like agricultural and other land uses, and incineration with energy recovery, are not dealt with because they are well known and extensively discussed elsewhere.
The effects of nano-materials on the behaviors of sludge mortar specimens.	In this research, nano-composites are added to sewage sludge ash to create a mixture, which then replaces part of cement. Nano-composites are manufactured from pure quartzose sand. The influences of different amounts of nano-composites and sludge ash on mortar are evaluated. Cement, sludge ash (0%, 10%, and 20%), and nano-composites (0%, 0.5%, 1%, 2%, and 3%), which defined as the percent weight of cement and sludge ash, are mixed together in batches to make mortar specimens. Results show that the flowability of sludge ash mortar reduces with increasing amount of cement replaced and of nano-composites added. The compressive strength of mortar lowers when more amounts of cement are replaced by sludge ash, but increases with more quantity of nano-composites added. Moreover, the study shows that nano-composites can fortify the compressive strength of mortar. With the help of efficiency of compressive strength, nano-composites benefit most to the mortar with replacement of 10% sludge ash, followed by the substitution of 20% and 0%.
Minimization of sludge production and stable operational condition of a submerged membrane activated sludge process.	Modification of conventional activated sludge process by adding microfiltration type hollow fiber membrane module offers various advantages. The membrane module is immersed directly in the bioreactor to separate the treated water from the sludge and the modified process is called submerged membrane activated sludge process (SMASP). Bench scale SMASP units were operated at constant flux to study the possibility of minimizing the excess sludge production and stable operation at different SRT and BOD loading. The long SRT developed high stabilized MLSS concentration in the bioreactor and decreased the sludge loading rate [kg-BOD/kg-MLSS-d]. In SMASP, very low sludge yield coefficients (0.04-0.09 kg-MLSS/kg-BOD) were obtained at long SRT (500 d) and small BOD loading (< or =0.5 kg/(m3 x d)) as compared to conventional activated sludge process and these coefficients showed considerable minimization in excess activated sludge production. At the same operation conditions, suction pressure was also maintained low (<25 kPa), and then SMASP was operated stably for long time (approximately 200 d).
Direct generation of electricity from sludges and other liquid wastes.	Recently it has been shown that electrical energy can be harvested from marine sediments, simply by connection of an electrode (anode) in anaerobic marine sediments to an electrode in the aerobic zone above the sediments. We have now shown that similar applications are available in sludge treatment. Using a reactor with graphite foil electrodes in an aerated aerobic and anaerobic sludge zone, electrical current was generated, and enhanced when an additional organic substrate (acetate) was added. Electron microscopy, x-ray diffraction, and PCR examination of the anode surface showed no surface colonization and no increase in Geobacter relative to a control, indicating that microbial use of the anode as an electron acceptor wa indirect through the use of redox mediators. Given the demonstration of electricity generation from sludge, the potential for similar applications, using other organic waste sources, is evaluated.
Thermal drying of wastewater sludge with crack formation.	We examined in this work the drying characteristics of wastewater sludge. The drying flux of the constant-rate period for sludge cake could be up to 40% higher than that from a sand bed. Owing to the considerable volume shrinkage of cake, cracks would form and develop on the crack surface, which yielded three-dimensional but rather than the one-dimensional cake structure assumed in conventional drying theories. The crack length was fully developed in the first 30 min of drying, while the width of crack increased linearly with time. Using these data the drying flux from the cracks was estimated. Enhanced drying flux was noticeable which depended on the crack shape and the crossflow velocity.
Sludge as source of energy and revenue.	Sludge is a residue/product from wastewater treatment plants and contains most of the contaminants released during human activities. Some stringent environmental regulations on sludge treatment and disposal exist in many countries. This has resulted in increasing interest in sludge treatment methods that encourage sludge reduction and improvement in biogas production during anaerobic digestion processes. This work demonstrates the first exploitation of valuable energy from homogenised sludge at technical scale with mass reduction. The optimal combination of sludge homogenisation at relatively low pressures using a modified high-pressure homogeniser led to the success of this unique project. Results showed that about 30% more energy could be obtained from thickened and disrupted sludge than from untreated samples. The energy produced was higher than that invested during disruption and digestion processes. About 23% sludge reduction was also observed with no increase in chemical oxygen demand. This new process can produce extra energy for local electrification and heating the digester while the sludge reduction provides economic benefits. Concentration of sludge causes reduction in investment cost on digester as well as reduction in operational time for sludge dewatering.
Effects of treated sewage effluent on immune function in rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss).	In this study, the immune reactions of rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) were examined, after exposure to 10, 30 and 70% of tertiary-treated municipal sewage effluent for 27 days. Exposures were conducted concurrently with and without an immune challenge using intraperitoneal injections of inactivated Aeromonas salmonicida salmonicida. Due to the time required to prepare and analyse samples, fish sampling was conducted over two consecutive days. There was no trout mortality for any of the experimental treatments. The exposure to effluent increased in vitro lymphocyte proliferation, decreased circulating lymphocytes and increased degrading erythrocytes in peripheral blood samples. Circulating lymphocytes were only decreased in the sham-injected, but not in the A. salmonicida-injected group. In addition to effluent effects, circulating lymphocytes and lymphocyte proliferation were decreased on day 2 of sampling as compared to day 1. Concentration-dependent degradation of erythrocytes was only observed on day 2 of sampling. Capture and removal of trout on day 1 of sampling presumably caused low-level stress that affected some results on day 2. Oxidative burst, phagocytosis, lysozyme, leucocyte populations other than lymphocytes and A. salmonicida-specific IgM production were not affected by exposure to effluent, and of these parameters, only oxidative burst and total leucocytes showed sampling day effects. From these results it can be observed, that with the exception of oxidative burst, those variables affected by effluent exposure were also significantly changed by the low-level sampling stress imposed by staggered sampling. Elevated liver mixed-function oxygenase activity as measured by 7-ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase activity, and increased bile polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) metabolites were observed in response to sewage effluent exposure. As both PAHs and stress are known immune suppressors, it is difficult to conclude whether or not changes in immune parameters due to effluent exposure were caused by the direct action of chemicals, or were due to a general stress response.
Urban wastewater and stormwater technologies in ancient Greece.	The status of urban sewerage and stormwater drainage systems in ancient Greece is reviewed, based on the results of archaeological studies of the 20th century. Emphasis is given to the construction, operation, and management of sewerage and stormwater drainage systems during the Minoan period (2nd millennium B.C.). The achievements of this period in dealing with the hygienic and the functional requirements of palaces and cities, were so advanced that they can only be compared to modern urban water systems, developed in Europe and North America in the second half of the 19th century A.D. The advanced Minoan technologies were exported to all parts of Greece in later periods of the Greek civilization, i.e. in Mycenaean, Archaic, Classical, and Hellenistic periods.
Determination of fluoroquinolone antibiotics in wastewater effluents by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and fluorescence detection.	The occurrence of quinolone antibiotics (QAs) was investigated in wastewater effluents and surface river/lake waters in the US and Canada by using solid-phase extraction with mixed phase cation exchange disk cartridge and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) and liquid chromatography fluorescence detection (LC-FLD). Ofloxacin (OFL) was detected in secondary and final effluents of a wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) in East Lansing, Michigan, at concentrations of 204 and 100 ng/l, respectively. The mass flow calculation, estimated by multiplying the OFL concentration in the final effluent by the average influent volume of the WWTP, showed that the discharge of OFL to the river was 4.8 g/day. The OFL concentrations in wastewater effluents measured in this study are comparable to or less than those observed in several European countries. QAs were not detected in river and lake waters analyzed in this study, which may due to dilution effects and to the higher detection limits, relative to those reported previously. OFL concentrations were approximately 1-2 orders of magnitude lower than the EC50 concentrations for environmental bacterium. However, greater concentrations of other QAs in sewage sludge from WWTPs may result in cumulative effects. Considering that the sewage sludge is applied to the land as fertilizers, soil-dwelling organisms could experience greater exposures to such antibiotics. Monitoring studies of QAs in sewage from WWTPs and in sediment/soil near aquaculture facilities and livestock farms will be necessary for the evaluation of the environmental distribution and risk of these compounds.
Ecotoxicological risk assessment of hospital wastewater: a proposed framework for raw effluents discharging into urban sewer network.	In hospitals a large variety of substances are in use for medical purposes such as diagnostics and research. After application, diagnostic agents, disinfectants and excreted non-metabolized pharmaceuticals by patients, reach the wastewater. This form of elimination may generate risks for aquatic organisms. The aim of this study was to present: (i) the steps of an ecological risk assessment and management framework related to hospital effluents evacuating into wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) without preliminary treatment; and (ii) the results of its application on wastewater from an infectious and tropical diseases department of a hospital of a large city in southeastern France. The characterization of effects has been made under two assumptions, which were related to: (a) the effects of hospital wastewater on biological treatment process of WWTP, particularly on the community of organisms in charge of the biological decomposition of the organic matter; (b) the effects on aquatic organisms. COD and BOD5 have been measured for studying global organic pollution. Assessment of halogenated organic compounds was made using halogenated organic compounds absorbable on activated carbon (AOX) concentrations. Heavy metals (arsenic, cadmium, chrome, copper, mercury, nickel, lead and zinc) were measured. Low most probable number (MPP) for faecal coliforms has been considered as an indirect detection of antibiotics and disinfectants presence. For toxicity assessment, bioluminescence assay using Vibrio fischeri photobacteria, 72-h EC50 algae growth Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata and 24-h EC50 on Daphnia magna were used. The scenario allows to a semi-quantitative risk characterization. It needs to be improved on some aspects, particularly those linked to: long term toxicity assessment on target organisms (bioaccumulation of pollutants, genotoxicity, etc.); ecotoxicological interactions between pharmaceuticals, disinfectants used both in diagnostics and in cleaning of surfaces, and detergents used in cleaning of surfaces; the interactions into the sewage network, between the hospital effluents and the aquatic ecosystem.
Evaluation of sewage sludge, septic waste and sludge compost applications to corn and forage: yields and N, P and K content of crops and soils.	This paper presents the data from two years of experiments concerned with the application of aerobically-digested sewage sludge, anaerobic lagoon septic sludge, sewage sludge compost or fertilizer to soils for grass forage and feed corn (Zea mays L.) production at two different sites 45 km from Truro, Nova Scotia. Crop yields, plant tissue and Mehlich-1 extractable soil nutrients were evaluated; 15 elements were analyzed in the plant tissue and nine elements in the soil extracts. This paper describes the results of crop yields, plant N, P and K content and Mehlich-1 extractable P and K. The research demonstrated the fertilizer produced higher yields of grass forage than the sludge and the compost but equivalent to the sludge in corn yields. Forage and corn N, P and K contents, however, varied with treatment, crop and year, while the compost-amended soils were highest in extractable nutrients. Both sludges and the compost, therefore, could be effective sources of N, P and K for crop production. Compared to the conventional fertilizer, the nutrient availability from the organic amendments (especially N and P) was considerably lower than the 50% assumed at the start of the experiment; the sludges however, provided higher nutrient availability than the compost.
Interpreting science in the real world for sustainable land application.	Today's land application practices are designed to effectively treat wastes, and have evolved from earlier practices that centered on cheap disposal with less regard for environmental protection. The major objectives of this paper are to (i) review how current land application practices, and our understanding of them, have evolved over time and (ii) explore how science is used (and sometimes misused or ignored) in the development of design, regulation, and management of sustainable land application. Land treatment technologies have been used effectively for the treatment and recycling of many types of wastewaters and organic residuals for many years. Extensive research and demonstration efforts, as well as experience with pilot- and field-scale projects, have provided the information about soil reactions with contaminants in wastewater and organic residuals needed to design and operate sustainable land application projects. Still, systematic research programs are as important today as ever to support studies aimed at producing information on how soil-based treatment and recycling systems work, to address new areas of concerns as they arise, and continue to improve the overall design, performance, and reliability of land application systems as sustainable soil treatment and recycling systems.
Output of radiopharmaceutical nuclides of known injected doses from a municipal sewage treatment system.	The concentrations of (99m)Tc, (123)I, (67)Ga, and (201)Tl of the discharge water and the sewage sludge from Kurume Central Sewage Treatment Plant were determined once a week for 2 mo. The radiopharmaceutical doses injected into the patients for all of four hospitals that use nuclear medicines in the service area of the plant were also surveyed. Approximately 1.5% of the (99m)Tc, 1.5% of the (123)I, 4.3% of the (67)Ga, and 0.41% of the (201)Tl of the injected doses were detected in the discharged water from the plant. The behavior of these radionuclides in the sewage treatment system was analyzed using a compartment model. The analyses suggest that the average residence times in storage tanks and drainage pipes before entering the plant were 9.5 h for (99m)Tc, 81 h for (123)I, 120 h for (67)Ga, and 480 h for (201)Tl.
Land application of treated sewage sludge: quantifying pathogen risks from consumption of crops.	To predict the number of humans in the UK infected through consumption of root crops grown on agricultural land to which treated sewage sludge has been applied in accordance with the current regulations and guidance (Safe Sludge Matrix).
Estimation of bioaerosol risk of infection to residents adjacent to a land applied biosolids site using an empirically derived transport model.	The purpose of this study was to develop an empirically derived transport model, which could be used to predict downwind concentrations of viruses and bacteria during land application of liquid biosolids and subsequently assess microbial risk associated with this practice.
Comparison of bacteriophage and enteric virus removal in pilot scale activated sludge plants.	The aim of this experimental study was to determine comparatively the removal of two types of bacteriophages, a somatic coliphage and an F-specific RNA phage and of three types of enteric viruses, hepatitis A virus (HAV), poliovirus and rotavirus during sewage treatment by activated sludge using laboratory pilot plants.
Influence of olive mill wastewater in composting and impact of the compost on a Swiss chard crop and soil properties.	The suitability of olive mill wastewater (OMW) for composting was studied by the addition of this liquid waste to a mixture of cotton gin waste and sewage sludge, and its composting was compared with that of another pile of similar composition, but without olive mill wastewater. Both piles were composted by the Rutgers static pile system in a pilot plant. To study the effects of both composts on plant yield and soil properties, a plot experiment was carried out with Swiss chard (Beta vulgaris L. var. cicla). Five treatments were applied: mineral fertiliser and two doses (30 and 60 tons ha(-1)) of both composts. The olive mill wastewater addition produced a compost with lower organic matter and nitrate concentrations, higher electrical conductivity, and a stabilised and humified organic matter similar to that of the compost produced without olive mill wastewater. The olive mill wastewater compost application to soil did not injure plants, producing a similar plant yield to both compost without olive mill wastewater and inorganic fertiliser. Also, the accumulation of potentially toxic heavy metals in plants cultivated with organic or mineral fertilisers did not reveal significant differences. The olive mill wastewater compost application to soil also improved the chemical and physicochemical properties of the soil.
Determination of the optimal and economical biofilter depth in an anaerobic hybrid reactor for treating livestock industrial wastewater.	A laboratory scale anaerobic hybrid reactor (AHR) being comprised of UASB and anaerobic biofilter was used to study the different biofilter depth with corresponding different critical HRT (1) and HRT (2) in treating livestock industrial wastewater, where the critical HRT (1) was defined as the HRT which resulted in the total COD in the effluent of the AHR exceeding in the influent at unsteady state, and the HRT (2) was defined as the HRT which resulted in the total COD in the effluent of the AHR exceeding the quality standard for discharging to sewer (in Hong Kong is Total COD < 1000 mg L1) at steady state. Two formulas expressing the relationship of different biofilter depth in the AHR and it's critical HRT (1) and HRT (2) in treating livestock industrial wastewater were obtained and used to design optimal and economical biofilter depth in a full scale AHR for treating livestock industrial wastewater on site. The performance of the full scale AHR indicated that using the experience formulas to design the optimal and economical biofilter depth in the full scale AHR for treating livestock industrial wastewater was successful. Experimental results also showed that the biofilter in the full scale AHR had not only physical filtration effect, but also had powerful biodegradation capability, furthermore, at unsteady state, the effect of biofilter on pollutant degrading in the full scale AHR was more great.
Combined use of an immunomagnetic separation method and immunoblotting for the enumeration and isolation of Escherichia coli O157 in wastewaters.	The detection of Escherichia coli O157:H7 in environmental samples is a human concern. The high persistence of this serotype in the environment suggests that contaminated animal wastewater could act as a potential reservoir. Nevertheless, the high levels of background microflora and cell damage because of environmental stress hamper the isolation of this pathogen without using enrichment methods. This study develops a method for the detection of E. coli and investigates its prevalence in animal and human wastewaters.
Biomarker responses and reproductive toxicity of the effluent from a Chinese large sewage treatment plant in Japanese medaka (Oryzias latipes).	The present study was conducted to assess the potential toxicity of the effluent from a large sewage treatment plant (GBD-STP) in Beijing. Japanese medakas (Oryzias latipes) at reproduction active period were exposed to a serial of graded concentrations of the effluent or 100 ng l-1 of 17-alpha-ethinylestradiol (EE2, positive control). Growth, gonadosomatic index (GSI), hepatosomatic index (HSI), reproductive success, induction potency of vitellogenin (VTG) in male fish and that of 7-ethoxyresorufin-o-deethylase activity (EROD) in male fish liver were used as test endpoints. The growth suppression of fish was observed in a dose-dependent manner, resulting in significant differences in both body length and body weight of medaka above 5% effluent. This effluent can inhibit the growth of gonad of medakas and are more sensitive to male than to female. At exposure concentration of 40% and higher, there was an unexpected decrease of HSI values, which may be resulted from sub-lethal toxicity of effluent to fish liver. VTG of plasma in males were induced in all exposure concentration levels, but not in a dose-dependent manner. The concentration of 5% effluent would be the lowest observed adverse effect level (LOAEL) affecting reproductive success when examining fertile individuals, fecundity and fertilization rate. The overt CYP1A response and higher reproductive toxicity may be indicative of low process efficiency of this STP.
Control of tomato bacterial wilt without disinfection using a new functional polymer that captures microbial cells alive on the surface and is highly biodegradable.	This report describes a green chemical method for controlling soil-borne plant diseases without disinfection using an equimolar copolymer of N-benzyl-4-vinylpyridinium chloride with styrene (PBVP-co-ST) that captures microbial cells alive on the surface and is highly biodegradable. Tomato bacterial wilt caused by Ralstonia solanacearum was controlled by the addition of sawdust coated with PBVP-co-ST prior to transplantation. This effected 87% reduction in appearance and 89% reduction in the index of symptom under appropriate conditions. The coated sawdust did not exhibit bactericidal activity. The half-life of PBVP-co-ST was 5.6 d when treated with activated sludge in soil. The disease control was explained in terms of reduction of infectious contact between the roots of tomato and the cells of R. solanacearum due to coagulation-like interaction between microbial cells and the coated sawdust, in addition to capture of microbial cells by the coated sawdust.
Ecological Sanitation--a way to solve global sanitation problems?	Today about 2.4 billion people in rural and urban areas do not have access to adequate sanitation services. Within 20 years, it is expected that an additional 2 billion will live in towns and cities, mainly in developing countries, demanding sanitation. Still over 90% of sewage in developing countries is discharged untreated, polluting rivers, lakes and coastal areas. Conventional sanitation concepts, based on flush toilets, a water wasting technology, are neither an ecological nor economical solution in both industrialized and developing countries. The water-based sewage systems were designed and built on the premises that human excreta are a waste; suitable only for disposal and that the environment is capable of assimilating this waste. A sanitation system that provides Ecological Sanitation (EcoSan) is a cycle--a sustainable, closed-loop system, which closes the gap between sanitation and agriculture. The EcoSan approach is resource minded and represents a holistic concept towards ecologically and economically sound sanitation. The underlying aim is to close (local) nutrient and water cycles with as less expenditure on material and energy as possible to contribute to a sustainable development. Human excreta are treated as a resource and are usually processed on-site and then treated off-site. The nutrients contained in excreta are then recycled by using them, e.g., in agriculture. EcoSan is a systemic approach and an attitude; single technologies are only means to an end and may range from near-natural wastewater treatment techniques to compost toilets, simple household installations to complex, mainly decentralised systems. These technologies are not ecological per se but only in relation to the observed environment. They are picked from the whole range of available conventional, modern and traditional technical options, combining them to EcoSan systems. The paper presents an introduction to EcoSan principles and concepts including re-use aspects (available nutrients and occurring risks), and case studies of EcoSan concepts in both industrialized and developing countries.
Reduction in organic contaminant exposure and resultant hepatic hydropic vacuolation in winter flounder (Pseudopleuronectes americanus) following improved effluent quality and relocation of the Boston sewage outfall into Massachusetts Bay, USA: 1987-2003.	Effluent upgrades for metropolitan Boston have included toxicant reduction, primary and secondary treatment and outfall extension. Between 1992 and 2003 winter flounder at five stations were surveyed annually for liver and muscle burden and chronic hepatic sub-lethal impacts of polynuclear and halogenated aromatic hydrocarbons, and metals. Trends in flounder availability and fin condition were also examined. In 1988 12% of the adult winter flounder in Boston Harbor exhibited hepatic neoplasms and up to 80% had hepatic hydropic vacuolation (HV). Tumor prevalence fell to 0-2% and HV to <50% by 1996. Since then tumors have been absent, while a steady prevalence of HV has persisted, consistent with lower hydrocarbon loading and tissue levels. Contaminants and HV also fell with distance from the Boston outfall. After the outfall extension was activated in 2000, there has been no significant change in flounder liver health at the new outfall site.
Selection of hydrothermal pre-treatment conditions of waste sludge destruction using multicriteria decision-making.	The effectiveness of hydrothermal treatment for the destruction of the organic content of sludge waste was investigated. The sludge sampled in this study contained approximately 2% solids. The experimental program consisted of hydrothermal treatment experiments conducted in a batch reactor at temperatures between 100 and 250 degrees C, with the addition of an oxidant (hydrogen peroxide) in the range of 0-150% with reference to TCOD, and reaction times of up to 60 min. The results suggested that the availability of oxidant, reaction temperature and reaction time were the determining factors for COD removal. A significant fraction of the COD remaining after treatment consisted of the dissolved COD. The results confirmed that hydrothermal treatment proceeds through hydrolysis resulting in the production of dissolved organic products followed by COD removal through oxidation. Two MCDM chemometrics methods, PROMETHEE and GAIA, were applied to process the large data matrix so as to facilitate the selection of the most suitable hydrothermal conditions for sludge destruction. Two possible scenarios were produced from this analysis-one depended on the use of high temperatures and no oxidant, while the second offered a choice of compromise solutions at lower temperatures but with the use of at least some oxidant. Thus, for the final choice of operating conditions, the decision maker needs local knowledge of the costs and available infrastructure. In principle, such information could be added as further criteria to the data matrix and new rankings obtained.
Observations on an accidental case of raw sewage pollution in Antarctica.	The effects of an accidental exposure to saltwater polluted by human wastes on aquarium populations of a variety of Antarctic organisms are described. Only the giant Antarctic slater Glyptonotus antarcticus survived the exposure to the contaminated water unharmed. A comparative analysis of water qualities revealed that total nitrogen and phosphorus levels of the contaminated sample were 15 and 19.5 times higher than those of the control and that the contaminated sample contained high amounts of coliform bacteria, whereas the latter were not identified in the control. Considering the widespread practice in Antarctica of disposing of raw sewage into the sea, the dearth of knowledge concerning the biological impact of such behaviour is seen as worrysome.
Napropamide residues in runoff and infiltration water from pepper production.	A field study was conducted on a Lowell silty loam soil of 2.7% organic matter at the Kentucky State University Research Farm, Franklin County, Kentucky. Eighteen universal soil loss equation (USLE) standard plots (22 x 3.7 m each) were established on a 10% slope. Three soil management practices were used: (i) class-A biosolids (sewage sludge), (ii) yard waste compost, each mixed with native soil at a rate of 50 ton acre(-1) on a dry-weight basis, and (iii) a no-mulch (NM) treatment (rototilled bare soil), used for comparison purposes. Devrinol 50-DF "napropamide" [N,N-diethyl-2-(1-naphthyloxy) propionamide] was applied as a preemergent herbicide, incorporated into the soil surface, and the plots were planted with 60-day-old sweet bell pepper seedlings. Napropamide residues one hour following spraying averaged 0.8, 0.4, and 0.3 microg g(-1) dry soil in sewage sludge, yard waste compost, and no-mulch treatments, respectively. Surface runoff water, runoff sediment, and napropamide residues in runoff were significantly reduced by the compost and biosolid treatments. Yard waste compost treatments increased water infiltration and napropamide residues in the vadose zone compared to sewage sludge and NM treatments. Total pepper yields from yard waste compost amended soils (9187 lbs acre(-1)) was significantly higher (P < 0.05) than yield from either the soil amended with class-A biosolids (6984 lbs acre(-1)) or the no-mulch soil (7162 lbs acre(-1)).
Validity of the indicator organism paradigm for pathogen reduction in reclaimed water and public health protection.	The validity of using indicator organisms (total and fecal coliforms, enterococci, Clostridium perfringens, and F-specific coliphages) to predict the presence or absence of pathogens (infectious enteric viruses, Cryptosporidium, and Giardia) was tested at six wastewater reclamation facilities. Multiple samplings conducted at each facility over a 1-year period. Larger sample volumes for indicators (0.2 to 0.4 liters) and pathogens (30 to 100 liters) resulted in more sensitive detection limits than are typical of routine monitoring. Microorganisms were detected in disinfected effluent samples at the following frequencies: total coliforms, 63%; fecal coliforms, 27%; enterococci, 27%; C. perfringens, 61%; F-specific coliphages, approximately 40%; and enteric viruses, 31%. Cryptosporidium oocysts and Giardia cysts were detected in 70% and 80%, respectively, of reclaimed water samples. Viable Cryptosporidium, based on cell culture infectivity assays, was detected in 20% of the reclaimed water samples. No strong correlation was found for any indicator-pathogen combination. When data for all indicators were tested using discriminant analysis, the presence/absence patterns for Giardia cysts, Cryptosporidium oocysts, infectious Cryptosporidium, and infectious enteric viruses were predicted for over 71% of disinfected effluents. The failure of measurements of single indicator organism to correlate with pathogens suggests that public health is not adequately protected by simple monitoring schemes based on detection of a single indicator, particularly at the detection limits routinely employed. Monitoring a suite of indicator organisms in reclaimed effluent is more likely to be predictive of the presence of certain pathogens, and a need for additional pathogen monitoring in reclaimed water in order to protect public health is suggested by this study.
Glyphosate degradation by immobilized bacteria: field studies with industrial wastewater effluent.	Immobilized bacteria have been shown in the laboratory to effectively remove glyphosate from wastewater effluent discharged from an activated sludge treatment system. Bacterial consortia in lab columns maintained a 99% glyphosate-degrading activity (GDA) at a hydraulic residence time of less than 20 min. In this study, a pilot plant (capacity, 45 liters/min) was used for a field demonstration. Initially, activated sludge was enriched for microbes with GDA during a 3-week biocarrier activation period. Wastewater effluent was then spiked with glyphosate and NH4Cl and recycled through the pilot plant column during start-up. Microbes with GDA were enhanced by maintaining the pH at less than 8 and adding yeast extract (less than 10 mg/liter). Once the consortia were stabilized, the column capacity for glyphosate removal was determined in a 60-day continuous-flow study. Waste containing 50 mg of glyphosate per liter was pumped at increasing flow rates until a steady state was reached. A microbial GDA of greater than 90% was achieved at a 10-min hydraulic residence time (144 hydraulic turnovers per day). Additional studies showed that microbes with GDA were recoverable within (i) 5 days of an acid shock and (ii) 3 days after a 21-day dormancy (low-flow, low-maintenance) mode. These results suggest that full-scale use of immobilized bacteria can be a cost-effective and dependable technique for the biotreatment of industrial wastewater.
Coagulant toxicity and effectiveness in a slaughterhouse wastewater treatment plant.	Attempts were made in this study to examine the toxicity of polymer/alum addition to the aeration tank effluent prior to sludge flotation as practiced in a slaughterhouse wastewater treatment plant. Based on the Microtox toxicity assay, alum at concentrations 100-200 mg/L was found to slightly increase the toxicity level of slaughterhouse wastewater effluent. However, at higher concentrations (300-1000 mg/L), significant residual chronic toxicity remained in all slaughterhouse wastewater effluents, independent of the treatment process. Polymer, on the other hand, removed organics and solids, but polymer effluents are more toxic than alum at extremely low concentration. Results indicated that alum and polymer caused inhibitory effects to the system at soluble concentrations of approximately 400 and 60 mg/L and above, respectively. The data also indicated that the solids collected in both tests (polymer/alum) were much more toxic than those from the effluents. Sediment samples from the polymer tests were the most toxic. Furthermore, the effluent toxicity of the coagulants was dramatically more significant when used after the settlement of solids than when used in mixed liquor. In addition, strong correlations were observed between the observed toxicity for a series of supernatants and the coagulant concentrations of alum/polymer processes, and between supernatants and solids collected in both tests.
The occurrence of Salmonella serotypes in marine recreational waters of Valencia, Spain.	Salmonellae serotypes were studied in order to know their prevalence in marine recreational areas of Valencia. Two hundred eight strains were isolated. The strains belonging to serogroups B, C, D, E and G. The serotyping yielded twenty one different serotypes. The most frequent salmonellae serotypes were S. anatum and S. bredeney. Our results were compared with those reported by other authors in Spain.
Urban solid waste management in Chongqing: challenges and opportunities.	The dual influences of the resource supply and protection in ecological environments will pose a significant challenge to China's sustainable development. Solid waste management offers opportunities to improve profits by conserving resources and improving environmental performance. This paper examines municipal solid waste (MSW) management in urban Chongqing, the nation's fourth largest municipality after Beijing, Shanghai and Tianjin. In this paper, we will provide information on the quantity and composition of MSW, as well as give an overview of different methods for collection, transport, treatment and disposal of MSW. At present the daily amount of MSW generated per person is about 1.08 kg; food waste accounts for about 59% of total MSW. MSW in Chongqing has a higher moisture content (64.1%) and a lower LHV (3728 kJ/kg) than other cities in Asia, which is an obstruction for incineration. Landfills are the main method of disposal in Chongqing, but pollution caused by simple landfills and lack of backup MSW disposal capacity are becoming major problems in the main districts of Chongqing. In this paper, the challenges being faced and opportunities to MSW in Chongqing are analyzed and some suggestions are given for improving the MSW system in the future.
Recovery of municipal waste incineration bottom ash and water treatment sludge to water permeable pavement materials.	Water treatment plant sludge and municipal solid waste incinerator bottom ash are non-hazardous residues, and they can be reprocessed to produce useful materials for city public works. In this study, an effort was endeavored to investigate the properties of water permeable bricks made of water treatment sludge and bottom ash without involving an artificial aggregate step. The water treatment plant sludge was dried and ground, and the bottom ash was subjected to magnetic separation to remove ferrous metals. Both sludge and bottom ash were ground and sieved to a size of <2mm. Different contents of water treatment sludge (70-95% by weight) were mixed with bottom ash and the blocks were molded under a pressure of 110 kg/cm2. Thereafter, the molded blocks were sintered at temperatures of 900-1200 degrees C for 60-360 min. The compressive strength, permeability and water absorption rate of the sintered brick were examined and compared to relevant standards. The amount of bottom ash added in the mixture with water treatment sludge affects both the compressive strength and the permeability of the sintered bricks. The two effects are antonymous as higher bottom ash content will develop a beehive configuration and have more voids in the brick. It is concluded that a 20% weight content of bottom ash under a sintering condition of 1150 degrees C for 360 min can generate a brick with a compressive strength of 256 kg/cm2, a water absorption ratio of 2.78% and a permeability of 0.016 cm/s.
Anaerobic co-digestion of algal sludge and waste paper to produce methane.	The unbalanced nutrients of algal sludge (low C/N ratio) were regarded as an important limitation factor to anaerobic digestion process. Adding high carbon content of waste paper in algal sludge feedstock to have a balanced C/N ratio was undertaken in this study. The results showed adding 50% (based on volatile solid) of waste paper in algal sludge feedstock increased the methane production rate to 1170+/-75 ml/l day, as compared to 573+/-28 ml/l day of algal sludge digestion alone, both operated at 4 g VS/l day, 35 degrees C and 10 days HRT. The maximum methane production rate of 1607+/-17 ml/l day was observed at a combined 5 g VS/l day loading rate with 60% (VS based) of paper adding in algal sludge feedstock. Results suggested an optimum C/N ratio for co-digestion of algal sludge and waste paper was in the range of 20-25/1.
Heavy metal contamination of soil and vegetables in suburban areas of Varanasi, India.	Heavy metal contamination of soil resulting from wastewater irrigation is a cause of serious concern due to the potential health impacts of consuming contaminated produce. In this study an assessment is made of the impact of wastewater irrigation on heavy metal contamination of Beta vulgaris (palak); this is a highly nutritious leafy vegetable that is widely cultivated and consumed in urban India, particularly by the poor. A field study was conducted at three major sites that were irrigated by either treated or untreated wastewater in the suburban areas of Varanasi, India according to normal practice. Samples of irrigation water, soil, and the edible portion of the palak (Beta vulgaris L. var All green H1) were collected monthly during the summer and winter seasons and were analyzed for Cd, Cu, Zn, Pb, Cr, Mn, and Ni. Heavy metals in irrigation water were below the internationally recommended (WHO) maximum permissible limits set for agricultural use for all heavy metals except Cd at all the sites. Similarly, the mean heavy metal concentrations in soil were below the Indian standards for all heavy metals, but the maximum value of Cd recorded during January was higher than the standard. However, in the edible portion of B. vulgaris, the Cd concentration was higher than the permissible limits of the Indian standard during summer, whereas Pb and Ni concentrations were higher in both summer and winter seasons. Results of linear regression analysis computed to assess the relationship between individual heavy metal concentration in the vegetable samples and in soil showed that Zn in soil had a positive significant relationship with vegetable contamination during winter. Concentrations of Cd, Cu, and Mn in soil and plant showed significant positive relationships only during summer. Concentration of Cr and Pb during winter season and Zn and Ni during summer season showed significant negative relationships between soil and plant contamination. The study concludes that the use of treated and untreated wastewater for irrigation has increased the contamination of Cd, Pb, and Ni in edible portion of vegetables causing potential health risk in the long term from this practice. The study also points to the fact that adherence to standards for heavy metal contamination of soil and irrigation water does not ensure safe food.
Aerobic degradation of diethyl phthalate by Sphingomonas sp.	An aerobic diethyl phthalate (DEP) degrading bacterium, DEP-AD1, was isolated from activated sludge. Based on its 16S rDNA sequence, this isolate was identified belonging to Sphingomonas genus with 99% similarity to Sphingomonas sp. strain C28242 and 98% similarity to S. capsulate. The specific degradation rate of DEP was concentration dependent with a maximum of 14 mg-DEP/(Lh). Results of degradation tests showed that DEP-AD1 could also degrade monoethyl phthalate (MEP), dimethyl phthalate (DMP), dibutyl phthalate (DBP), and diethylhexyl phthalate (DEHP), but not phthalate and benzoate.
Potential for hydrogen and methane production from biomass residues in Canada.	Canada generates approximately 1.45 x 10(8)t of residual biomass per year, containing an estimated energy value of 2.28 x 10(9)GJ, which is equivalent to about 22% of Canada's current annual energy use. Anaerobic digestion of these biomass residues using conventional technologies could generate 1.14 x 10(10)m(3)/year of CH(4) with a heating value of 4.56 x 10(8)GJ. Conversion of these residues using emerging technologies that favor the synthesis of H(2) and represses the synthesis of CH(4) could generate 1.47 x 10(10)m(3)/year renewable H(2), with a heating value of 1.89 x 10(8)GJ. While CH(4)-production results in a larger amount of energy recovery, generating H(2) from waste biomass is a renewable alternative that could fuel the hydrogen economy. Additional research to further both the technical and commercial development of microbial bio-energy from biomass is warranted.
Aerobic treatment of palm oil mill effluent.	In this study treatment of palm oil mill effluent (POME) was investigated using aerobic oxidation based on an activated sludge process. The effects of sludge volume index, scum index and mixed liquor suspended solids during the acclimatizing phase and biomass build-up phase were investigated in order to ascertain the reactor stability. The efficiency of the activated sludge process was evaluated by treating anaerobically digested and diluted raw POME obtained from Golden Hope Plantations, Malaysia. The treatment of POME was carried out at a fixed biomass concentration of 3900+/-200mg/L, whereas the corresponding sludge volume index was found to be around 105+/-5mL/g. The initial studies on the efficiency of the activated sludge reactor were carried out using diluted raw POME for varying the hydraulic retention time, viz: 18, 24, 30 and 36h and influent COD concentration, viz: 1000, 2000, 3000, 4000 and 5000mg/L, respectively. The results showed that at the end of 36h of hydraulic retention time for the above said influent COD, the COD removal efficiencies were found to be 83%, 72%, 64%, 54% and 42% whereas at 24h hydraulic retention time they were 57%, 45%, 38%, 30% and 27%, respectively. The effectiveness of aerobic oxidation was also compared between anaerobically digested and diluted raw POME having corresponding CODs of 3908 and 3925mg/L, for varying hydraulic retention time, viz: 18, 24, 30, 36, 42, 48, 54 and 60h. The dissolved oxygen concentration and pH in the activated sludge reactor were found to be 1.8-2.2mg/L and 7-8.5, respectively. The scum index was found to rise from 0.5% to 1.9% during the acclimatizing phase and biomass build-up phase.
The epidemiological surveillance of poliomyelitis in the Ukraine]	Correlation has been revealed between the circulation of polioviruses among the population and environmental objects. A rise in the circulation of polioviruses, type I, was caused by a decrease in collective immunity to this virus type. Water supply and sewage system purification was found ineffective with respect to enteroviral contamination. Vaccinal prophylaxis, carried out for many years, did not lead to the elimination of poliovirus strains, genetically different from vaccine ones.
Removal of Zn2+ and Cu2+ by a sequencing batch reactor (SBR) system.	Both resting (living) and autoclaved (dead) bio-sludges showed almost the same Cu2+ and Zn2+ adsorption capacities with synthetic industrial estate wastewater (SIEWW). The resting bio-sludge showed not only Cu2+ and Zn2+ adsorption abilities but also organic matter adsorption ability. But, the organic matter (COD and BOD5) adsorption ability of bio-sludge with SIEWW containing 60 mg/L Cu2+ was about half of that with SIEWW containing 60 mg/L Zn2+. The adsorbed Cu2+ and Zn2+ were easily eluted (70-75%) from bio-sludge with 0.1 N HNO3 and 0.1 M EDTA solutions. Bio-sludge from a wastewater treatment plant could be used as an adsorbent for metal ions (Cu2+ and Zn2+). Cu2+ and Zn2+ could repress the SBR system efficiency but its efficiency could be increased with the increase of mixed liquor suspended solids (MLSS), and Cu2+ had more effect than Zn2+ to repress the system efficiency. The SBR system showed very low removal efficiencies of the pollutants with industrial estate wastewater (IEWW), but its pollutant removal efficiencies with IEWW could be increased with the addition of glucose. The Zn2+, Cu2+, BOD5, COD and TKN removal efficiencies of the system with IEWW containing 1.27 g/L glucose, 10 mg/L Cu2+ and 10 mg/L Zn2+ under MLSS of 4500 mg/L were 92.61 +/- 0.28%, 83.77 +/- 0.93%, 98 +/- 0%, 92 +/- 0% and 78.1 +/- 0.1%, respectively.
Influence of 2,4-dinitrophenol on the characteristics of activated sludge in batch reactors.	The response of activated sludge characteristics to the presence of 2,4-dinitrophenol (dNP) in batch cultures was investigated in this study. The sludge yield slightly decreased with an increase in dNP concentration. At 10 mg l(-1), or lower, dNP significantly reduced sludge yield and relative specific growth rates (mu/mu0), but didn't substantially affect its relative specific chemical oxygen demand removal rate (q/q0). Presence of dNP at 1-20 mg l(-1) increased the specific oxygen uptake rate of activated sludge, and slightly changed its hydrophobicity. An analysis on inhibition indicated that the reduction in sludge yield in the presence of dNP was mainly attributed to the significant decreased sludge growth, rather than the reduced substrate degradation.
Effect of temperature on anaerobic treatment of black water in UASB-septic tank systems.	The effect of northern European seasonal temperature changes and low temperature on the performance of upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB)-septic tanks treating black water was studied. Three UASB-septic tanks were monitored with different operational parameters and at different temperatures. The results indicated the feasibility of the UASB-septic tank for (pre)treatment of black water at low temperatures with respect to removal of suspended solids and dissolved organic material. Inoculum sludge had little effect on COD(ss) removal, though in the start-up phase some poorly adapted inoculum disintegrated and washed out, thus requiring consideration when designing the process. Removal of COD(dis) was at first negative, but improved as the sludge adapted to low temperature. The UASB-septic tank alone did not comply with Finnish or Dutch treatment requirements and should therefore be considered mainly as a pre-treatment method. However, measuring the requirements as mgCOD l(-1) may not always be the best method, as the volume of the effluent discharged is also an important factor in the final amount of COD entering the receiving water bodies.
Effects of pharmaceutical products and municipal wastewaters on temperature-dependent mitochondrial electron transport activity in Elliptio complanata mussels.	The advent of global warming has given rise to the issue on how temperature impacts the susceptibility of ectothermic organisms to pollution. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of pharmaceutical products and domestic wastewaters on temperature-dependent mitochondrial electron transport activity in the freshwater mussel Elliptio complanata. Mitochondria from mussels were freshly prepared and exposed to increasing concentrations of various pharmaceutical products known to be found in municipal effluents for 30 min at 4, 12 and 20 degrees C. Electron transport activity as well as lipid peroxidation and DNA strand breaks were determined in the mitochondria. Next, mussels were placed in the aeration lagoons of two municipal wastewater treatment plants for 30 days. Mitochondrial electron transport (MET), temperature-dependent MET (MET(T)) and lipid peroxidation in gonad were then determined. The results show that all products were able to increase MET activity, but at two different ranges of threshold concentration. Certain pharmaceutical products (i.e., ibuprofen, cotinine, fluoxetine, coprostanol and trimethoprim) increased MET(T) at a lower threshold concentration than observed at 20 degrees C. Products of lesser potency in reducing lipid peroxidation were those that produced more DNA strand breaks in mitochondria. Both MET and MET(T) were significantly increased in mussels exposed to aeration lagoon effluents. Lipid peroxidation was also increased in the gonad and was significantly correlated with MET and MET(T) activities. The data indicate that pharmaceutical products and municipal effluents increase respiration rates in isolated mitochondria, such that interaction with temperature could enhance the susceptibility of mitochondrial energy production and oxidative stress in environments contaminated by domestic wastewater.
Treatment of sewage using an aged-refuse-based bioreactor.	The refuse in landfills becomes stabilized or aged after years of placement, and the resultant partly or fully stabilized refuse thus obtained is referred to as "aged refuse" in this work. The aged refuse contains a wide spectrum and large quantity of microorganisms, which have been proved to have a strong decomposition capability for both biodegradable and refractory organic matter present in some wastewaters. In this study, the aged refuse excavated from a 10-year old closed landfill compartment at Shanghai Refuse Landfill was used as the substrate in a bioreactor for the biofiltration of sewage taken from the sewage pipeline systems in Shanghai downtown areas. Typically, 120kg of screened aged refuse with a diameter less than 15mm was used as biofiltration material in a round shaped bioreactor with an inner diameter of 80cm and a height of 150cm. Influent sewage with initial COD, BOD, and NH(3)-N concentrations of 400-500, 240-300, and 45-50mg/L, respectively, was introduced into the bioreactor. The corresponding concentrations in the effluent were reduced to below 80-100, 10-20, and 10-15mg/L, respectively, at a hydraulic load of 1000-1200L/m(3) refuse/day, and the treatment efficiencies decreased with increased hydraulic load. The treatment mechanism was also studied. It was found that the pollutant removal efficiencies dramatically decreased when the aged refuse in the bioreactor was preliminarily disinfected using NaClO solutions, indicating that the pollutants in the sewage were biologically removed. The treatment process developed in this work is cost-effective.
Denitrification potential and rates of complex carbon source from dairy effluents in activated sludge system.	A predictive model for the denitrification performance of complex carbon sources was proposed based on compositional data. Potential and rates of denitrification of single dairy components (lactose, lactate, proteins, fat), as well as binary and complex (modelled "process water") mixtures were assessed using test for nitrogen uptake rate (NUR). In all experiments, denitrification potential of mixtures was found to be significantly higher than the sum of individual potentials and denitrification rate with the readily biodegradable moiety of the mixtures was similar to the highest rate obtained with individual components (lactose or lactate). This work shows that activated sludge acclimated to dairy components can be modelled as a single biomass where the maximal anoxic growth rate of the biomass limits the denitrification rate with dairy components. As a consequence, lactose or lactate determine the maximal denitrification rate possible using dairy effluents.
Removal of disperse dyes from textile wastewater using bio-sludge.	Granular activated carbon (GAC) did not show any significant adsorption ability on the disperse dyes, while resting (living) bio-sludge of a domestic wastewater treatment plant showed high adsorption abilities on both disperse dyes and organic matter. The dye adsorption ability of bio-sludge increased by approximately 30% through acclimatization with disperse dyes, and it decreased by autoclaving. The deteriorated bio-sludge could be reused after being washed with 0.1N NaOH solution. Disperse Red 60 was more easily adsorbed onto the bio-sludge than Disperse Blue 60. The Disperse Red 60, COD, and BOD5 adsorption capacities of acclimatized, resting bio-sludge were 40.0+/-0.1, 450+/-12, and 300+/-10mg/g of bio-sludge, respectively. The GAC-SBR system could be applied to treat textile wastewater (TWW) containing disperse dyes with high dye, BOD5, COD, and TKN removal efficiencies of 93.0+/-1.1%, 88.0+/-3.1%, 92.2+/-2.7% and 51.5+/-7.0%, respectively without any excess bio-sludge production under an organic loading of 0.18 kg BOD5/m3-d. Furthermore, the removal efficiencies increased with the addition of glucose into the system. The dye, BOD5, COD, and TKN removal efficiencies of the GAC-SBR system with TWW containing 0.89 g/L glucose were 94.6+/-0.7%, 94.4+/-0.6%, 94.4+/-0.8% and 59.3+/-8.5%, respectively, under an SRT of 67+/-0.4 days.
Fate of 5-fluorouracil, doxorubicin, epirubicin, and daunorubicin in hospital wastewater and their elimination by activated sludge and treatment in a membrane-bio-reactor system.	Antineoplastic agents are applied in cancer therapy and end up in hospital wastewater by human excretions. In this study, the raw wastewater of the sewer of the oncologic in-patient treatment ward of the Vienna University Hospital was monitored for 98 d over 2 years for the cytostatics 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), doxorubicin (DOX), epirubicin, and daunorubicin. In a next step, the elimination of the drugs by a membrane-bio-reactor system was investigated. In addition, their fate in wastewater and elimination by activated sludge was investigated with radio-labelled substances. During the monitoring periods, concentration levels ranging from <8.6 to 124 microgl(-1) for 5-FU and from <0.26 to 1.35 microgl(-1) for DOX were determined. The concentrations analysed fitted the lower ranges calculated by an input-output model. Treatment of oncologic wastewater in the membrane bio-reactor as well as the analysis of the effluents of the Vienna University Hospital resulted in concentrations below the limit of detection. Investigations with radio-labelled compounds showed that 5-FU is eliminated from the liquid phase below the limit of detection. But, up to 25% of radio-labelled equivalents of the drug's amount were found in the gaseous phase and only a marginal part in the solid phase, this indicates that at least one part of the drug is biodegraded. For the anthracyclines more than 90% was eliminated from the liquid phase. In this case, adsorption to suspended solids seems to be the major elimination pathway, as up to 30% of the radio-labelled equivalents of the drug's amount was detected in the solid phase. Our results indicate that the investigated anticancer drugs are eliminated by sewage treatment plants, either by biodegradation or adsorption.
Variability control: key to regulatory compliance and sustainability goals.	The focus of this paper is on variability concerns in wastewater treatment and approaches to control unacceptable fluctuations in effluent quality. Areas considered include: factors contributing to variability in both waste loads and process technology performance; variability assessment; control of variability employing the process best management practice (BMP); design/operation of biological waste treatment technologies for variability reduction; and modelling to enhance process control.
Detection and identification of dyes showing AhR-binding affinity in treated sewage effluents.	A bioassay using the YCM3 recombinant yeast strain was utilised to investigate the presence of dioxin-like compounds that activate the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) in treated sewage effluents. AhR ligand activity was detected in the concentrated extracts of effluent samples collected in March, June and October 2004 from Kyoto city, Japan. HPLC fractionation was carried out using C18 reversed-phase columns, and possible AhR ligands were further isolated and purified. By using LC/MS/MS, one weak AhR ligand was identified to be rhodamine B base, a fluoran dye. In addition, two other coloured ligands were postulated to be disperse anthraquinone dyes or their metabolites because of their UV spectra and HPLC retention times. The AhR-binding affinities of 12 commercial dyes with different chemical structures were also studied. Among the dyes tested, hydrophobic anthraquinone dyes exhibited higher AhR ligand activity, but azo dyes or hydrophilic acid dyes showed no or very low AhR ligand activity. Rhodamine B base and disperse anthraquinone dyes were suggested to be potential xenobiotic AhR ligands. Future research regarding their contamination in aquatic environments and toxicological information is necessary.
Removal of boron (B) from waste liquors.	This paper explores the use of electrocoagulation to remove boron from waste effluent in comparison with alum coagulation. In treating model test wastes, greater boron removals were achieved with electrocoagulation at low doses than conventional alum coagulation when reaction was undertaken for the same conditions (pH 8.5, and initial boron concentration was 500 mg/L). Al electrocoagulation can achieve good boron removal performance (68.3%) at a dose of 2.1 (as molar ratio of Al:B, and for current density of 62.1 A/m2), while alum coagulation can only achieve the maximum boron removal of 56% at a dose of 2.4. Also, Al electrocoagulation can remove 15-20% more boron than alum coagulation for the same dose compared in the treatment of both model test wastes and industry effluent. The estimation of running costs shows that to achieve 75% boron removal from industry waste effluent, i.e. removing 150 g of boron from 1 m3 of effluent, electrocoagulation was 6.2 times cheaper than alum coagulation. The economic advantage of electrocoagulation in the treatment of boron-containing waste effluent is thus significant.
Removal of inhibitory phenolic compounds by biological activated carbon coupled membrane bioreactor.	Phenolic compounds cause problems for conventional treatments due to their toxic and inhibitory properties. This work investigated the treatability of phenolic compounds by using two membrane-bioreactor systems, namely: activated sludge coupled with MBR (AS-MBR) and biological granular activated carbon coupled with MBR (BAC-MBR). Initially, the system was fed with phenol (500 mg/L) followed by adding 2,4-dichlorophenol (2,4-DCP). Phenol, 2,4-DCP, TOC and COD removal were higher than 98.99% when the organic load ranged between 1.80 and 5.76 kg/m3.d COD. In addition to MBR system development, removal mechanisms were also investigated. Relatively low values of phenol adsorption of GAC and biomass, and high maximum substrate removal rates obtained from a biokinetic experiment, proved that the removals were mainly due to biodegradation. Analysis of sludge indicated a significant difference in the sludge characteristics of the two reactors. The high EPS content in BAC-MBR led to higher viscosity and poor sludge settling properties. The relationship between sludge properties and EPS components revealed that settleability had no direct correlation with EPS, though it was better correlated to protein/carbohydrate ratios.
Improvement of wastewater treatment performance of the Fukashiba treatment plant.	The Fukashiba Treatment Plant Kashima Rinkai Specified Sewage Works has received wastewater from the petrochemical complex (90%) and public sewage of Kamisu and Hasaki town (10%). For this reason, the plant is facing many difficulties in producing good quality effluent. In order to solve these difficulties, we are reviewing the treatment performance and making efforts for its improvement with nitrification inhibition, control of bio-persistent substances and the PRTR approach.
Dynamical modelling of an activated sludge system of a petrochemical plant operating at high temperatures.	The Mexican petrochemical industry, Morelos S.A. de C.V., is one of the biggest and more important petroleum industries in Mexico and Latin America. It has an activated sludge system to treat its wastewater flow, which is approximately 7,000 m3/d. The wastewater contains volatile organic carbon substances classified as toxics. The old surface aeration system was changed for fine bubble diffusers; however, one major drawback of the new aeration system is that the temperature in the bioreactor has increased due to the compression of the air, which at the compressor exit reaches 85 degrees C. This effect results in the temperature in the bioreactor attaining 32 degrees C during the fall, whereas in the spring and summer, the bioreactor temperature reaches higher values than 40 degrees C. The high temperatures reduce the microorganism activity and cause a higher volatilisation rate of volatile compounds, among other effects, which affect the performance of the biological treatment. This work was performed to obtain a better modelling of the wastewater treatment from the petrochemical industry. The model describes the effect of the temperature on the performance of the biological treatment. The model was obtained from tests that were carried out in laboratory reactors with 14 L capacity, which were operated at different temperatures (from 30 to 45 degrees C), with the same wastewater and conditions as the actual system.
Electrolytic degradation of biorefractory organics and ammonia in leachate from bioreactor landfill.	Electrochemical oxidation was applied to treat the effluent from bioreactor landfill with leachate recirculation, characterised as poor biodegradability and high NH3-N concentration. In this study, the effluent was electrolysed in a batch reactor with Ti/TiO2-IrO2-RuO2 anode and stainless steel cathode. The oxidation of dissolved organic matter (DOM) during electrolysis was evaluated based on the evolution of molecular weight grade, hydrophilic fractionation (humic acid, fulvic acid and hydrophilic fractions), specific ultraviolet absorbance (SUVA254) and AOX. The impact of the initial NH3-N concentration on the oxidation was discussed. The results showed that at a current density of 100 mA/cm2, electrolysis time of 1.5 h and electrode gap of 1 cm, NH3-N with an initial concentration of 1.2 g/L could be completely eliminated and 56% of COD with an initial concentration of 1.2 g/L could be removed, which illustrated that the electrolysis-produced chlorine preferentially oxidised ammonia. The electrolysis mainly resulted in the degradation of humic substances and other high molecular DOM, followed by the increase of BOD/COD ratio and decline of SUVA254 of the leachate. The current efficiencies for COD and ammonia oxidation gradually decreased during the electrolysis, with the latter obviously higher than the former. At the optimal electrolysis time of 1.5 h, NH3-N could be totally removed and the BOD/COD ratio could be enhanced to 0.3, which was also favourable to control the AOX at a reasonable level.
Treatment of dye works wastewater using anaerobic-oxic biological filter reactor packed with carbon fibre and aerated with micro-bubbles.	A new anaerobic-oxic biological filter reactor, which was packed with carbon fibre and aerated with micro-bubbles, was proposed. The reactor performance was examined using dye works wastewater compared with the activated sludge reactor. Effluent SS from the experimental reactor was significantly lower than that from the activated sludge reactor, and transparency was higher. Temperatures of the activated sludge reactor were over 35 degrees C and DOC removal ratios were 40-80% depending on the influent wastewater. On the other hand, the DOC removal efficiency of the experimental reactor was over 70%, when the reactor temperature was over 22 degrees C. In the anaerobic zone, sulphate reduction occurred predominantly and acetate was produced. In the oxic reactor, sulphur oxidation and organic removal occurred. When the amount of sulphate reduction in the anaerobic zone increased, DOC and colour in effluent decreased. The sulphate reducing activity of biofilm at 30 degrees C was three times higher than those at 20 degrees C. The sulphate reducing activity of biofilm in the oxic zone was higher than those in the anaerobic zone, meaning that the sulphate reduction-oxidation cycles were established in the biofilm of the oxic zone. Microbial community of sulphate reducing bacteria was examined by in situ hybridisation with 16S rRNA targeted oligonucleotide probes. Desulfobulbus spp. was most common sulphate reducing bacteria in the anaerobic zone. In the oxic zone, Desulfobulbus spp. and Desulfococcus spp. were observed.
Microbial conversion of selected azo dyes and their breakdown products.	Four selected azo dyes (acid orange 6, acid orange 7, methyl orange and methyl red) were completely decolourised in the presence of anaerobic granular sludge, while only methyl red was degraded in aerobic conditions using a conventional activated sludge. Additional experiments with culture broth devoid of cells showed that anaerobic decolourisation of azo dyes was performed by extracellular reducing agents produced by anaerobic bacteria. This was further confirmed by abiotic experiments with sulphide and NADH. The presence of redox mediators such as riboflavin led to dramatic acceleration of the anaerobic biodecolourisation process. The azo dye reduction products were found to be sulphanilic acid and 4-aminoresorcinol for acid orange 6; sulphanilic acid and 1-amino-2-naphthol for acid orange 7; N,N-dimethyl-1,4-phenylenediamine and sulphanilic acid for methyl orange; and N,N-dimethyl-1,4-phenylenediamine and anthranilic acid for methyl red. Anaerobic toxicity assays showed that the azo dyes were more toxic than their breakdown products (aromatic amines), except 1-amino-2-naphthol. In the presence of activated sludge, only anthranilic acid was completely mineralised while sulphanilic acid was persistent. 4-aminoresorcinol, 1-amino-2-naphthol and N,N-dimethyl-1,4-phenylenediamine underwent autooxidation in aerobic conditions yielding coloured polymeric products. On the contrary, in the presence of granular methanogenic sludge, 4-aminoresorcinol, 1-amino-2-naphthol and anthranilic acid were quantitatively methanised, sulphanilic acid was partially (70%) mineralised while N,N-dimethyl-1,4-phenylenediamine was only demethylated producing 1,4-phenylenediamine as an end product.
Financial management of Kashima Rinkai Specified Sewage Works.	The Kashima Rinkai Specified Sewage Works (KRSSW) is located at the northern side of the Kashima Coastal Industrial Zone, facing the Sea of Kashimanada (Pacific Ocean). It straddles one city and two townships: the city of Kashima, which boasts Kashima Port, a transportation center that was constructed on Kashimanada Beach by digging into the virgin sands, and the towns of Kamisu and Hasaki. The industries located there include steel, petrochemicals, chemicals, foodstuffs, livestock feeds, electric power and machinery metals. Industrial wastewaters with public sewage, except steel industry, are treated by the Fukashiba Treatment Plant which is managed by the Ibaraki Prefectural Government. The financial management of KRSSW is analysed to show its stand-alone condition.
Operation and management of the Fukashiba treatment plant.	Since the opening of the Fukashiba Treatment Plant in 1970, the number of industries and the amount of wastewater requiring treatment in the service area have been steadily increasing. In response to the recent economic downturn in Japan, these rates of increase have slowed, but are not decreasing. The pollution load in the wastewater from these industries has decreased and is now stable. Unlike the case of ordinary domestic sewage, the effects of the various types of substances contained in wastewaters delivered from the petrochemical complex to the treatment plant, for example, corrosion, are quite large. Measures to deal with corrosion problems, such as replacement or modification of the facilities, improvement of the efficiencies of facility operation and wastewater treatment, and improvement of measures against odours, are being implemented.
Fate of nonylphenol polyethoxylates and nonylphenoxy acetic acids in an anaerobic digestion process for sewage sludge treatment.	Many environmental problems caused by endocrine disruptors (EDs) have been reported. It is reported that EDs flow into sewage treatment plants, and it has been pointed out that these may be shifted from the wastewater treatment process to the sludge treatment process. Little is known about the fate of EDs accumulated in sewage sludge, so we carried out a study to clarify the fate of EDs in sewage sludge treatment processes, especially in an anaerobic digestion process. In this study, nonylphenol (NP) was selected as a target ED. Nonylphenol ethoxylates (NPnEO) or nonylphenoxy acetic acids (NPnEC), which were the precursor of NP, were added to an anaerobic digestion process, and mass balance was investigated. The following results were obtained from the anaerobic digestion experiments. (1) NP1EO was injected to an anaerobic digestion testing apparatus that was operated at a retention time of approximately 28 d and a temperature of 35 degrees C with thickened sludge sampled from an actual wastewater treatment plant. Approximately 40% of the injected NP1EO was converted to NP. (2) NP1EC was injected to an anaerobic digestion testing apparatus with thickened sludge. As a result, almost all injected NP1EC was converted to NP. When NP2EC was injected, NP2EC was not converted to NP until the 20th day.
Occurrence of levofloxacin, clarithromycin and azithromycin in wastewater treatment plant in Japan.	Residual pharmaceutical products in sewage and other water environments have recently become a serious social problem in advanced countries. Among these pharmaceutical products, antibiotics have attracted special attention due to their serious impact on the ecosystem and connections to the emergence of drug-resistant bacteria. Our research intended to develop a new method to analyse the three antibiotics estimated to be released out of the body in large amounts in Japan; levofloxacin (LVFX), clarithromycin (CAM) and azithromycin (AZM), and survey the state of pollution in the sewerage. The concentrations of the water-phase antibiotics LVFX, CAM and AZM were measured in each process of activated sludge process in six wastewater treatment plants. Liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) was used to analyse solutions of the antibiotics after pretreatment with a solid phase extraction. The limits of quantification and the average recoveries for these antibiotics in the influent were 1.2 to 29 ng/L and 46 to 93%, respectively. In the influent, LVFX, CAM and AZM were detected at concentrations of 552, 647 and 260 ng/L, respectively, while their removal efficiencies were 42, 43 and 49%, respectively. Although the CAM and AZM concentrations decreased as the treatment progressed, it was shown that the LVFX concentration increased in activated sludge reactors in some cases. Despite differences in octanol-water partition coefficients among LVFX, CAM and AZM, their removal efficiency showed no major difference. This indicates that this removal phenomenon cannot be explained by simple adsorption by the activated sludge.
Effect of 200 days' sludge retention time on performance of a pilot scale submerged membrane bioreactor for high strength industrial wastewater treatment.	A high strength industrial wastewater was treated using a pilot scale submerged membrane bioreactor (MBR) at a sludge retention time (SRT) of 200 d. The MBR was operated at a high sludge concentration of 20 g/L and a low F/M ratio of 0.11 during 300 d of operation. It was found that the MBR could achieve COD and TOC overall removal efficiencies at more than 99 and 98% TN removal. The turbidity of the permeate was consistently in the range of 0.123 to 0.136 NTU and colour254 absorbance readings varied from 0.0912 to 0.0962 a.u. cm(-1). The sludge concentration was inversely proportional to the hydraulic retention time (HRT), yielded excellent organic removal and extremely low sludge production (0.0016 kgVSS/day).
A method to incorporate ecology into residence time of chemicals in embayments: local effect time.	Residence times are defined classically by the physical and chemical aspects of water bodies rather than by their ecological implications. Therefore, a more clear and direct connection between the residence times and ecological effects is necessary to relate these timescales quantitatively to ecology. The concept of local effect time (LET) is proposed in this paper as a timescale with spatial resolution that relates to ecological components and their spatial distribution within an embayment. The LET can predict the susceptibility of real-world ecological components to change from one condition to another. It can provide an efficient way to allow managers and agencies to evaluate the degree of stress or relief from current or projected changes in the loading of contaminants or nutrients. The steps for calculating LETs and defining their correlation with the existing ecological components in an embayment are presented along with illustrative applications to loading from riverine inflow and a wastewater treatment plant. The LETsuccessfully identified the areas within the water body that could be prone to ecological changes due to perturbations in the loading rate of riverine water and its constituents. An example is given that shows how the LET method can be used to delineate the distribution and duration of high levels of coliform bacteria due to a pulsed effluent from the treatment plant.
Long term performance of MBR for biological nitrogen removal from synthetic municipal wastewater.	This study monitors the long term performance of membrane bioreactor (MBR) for the treatment of synthetic municipal wastewater at solid retention time (SRT) of 40 and 20d with particular emphasis on simultaneous nitrification-denitrification (SND). SND was greatly influenced by the operating dissolved oxygen (DO). It was found that at an SRT of 20d, nitrogen removal through assimilation into biomass increases as a result of higher biomass yield. The profile of soluble microbial products (SMP) conformed to a cyclical pattern in the MBR with respect to SRT. Decrease in SRT from 40 to 20d resulted in doubling of accumulated SMP concentration (to 56mgl(-1)) in the MBR. This however, was accompanied by a simultaneous drop in percentage of SMP with MW>100kD, from 42.4% to 33%. Also, the sludge filterability decreased by 24-folds despite a decrease in the biomass concentration, following the above reduction in SRT. It was found that the volumetric oxygen transfer coefficient (K(l)a) was a function of biomass concentration in MBR with the ratio of the oxygen transfer coefficient in mixed liquor to that of clean water (alpha) to be 0.2-0.5.
Air-surface exchange of mercury with soils amended with ash materials.	Air-surface exchange of mercury (Hg) was measured from soil low in Hg (0.013 mg/kg) amended with four different ash materials: a wood ash containing -10% coal ash (0.070 mg/kg Hg), a mixture of two subbituminous coal fly ashes (0.075 mg/kg Hg), a subbituminous coal ash containing -10% petroleum coke ash (1.2 mg/kg Hg), and an ash from incinerated municipal sewage sludge (4.3 mg/kg Hg) using a dynamic flux chamber. Ash was added to soil to simulate agricultural supplements, soil stabilization, and pad layers used in livestock areas. For the agricultural amendment, -0.4% ash was well mixed into the soil. To make the stabilized soil that could be used for construction purposes, -20% ash was mixed into soil with water. The pad layer consisted of a wetted 1-cm layer of ash material on the soil surface. Diel trends of Hg flux were observed for all of the substrates with significantly higher Hg emissions during the day and negligible flux or deposition of Hg during the night. Hg fluxes, which were measured in the summer months, were best correlated with solar radiation, temperature, and air O3 concentrations. Mean Hg fluxes measured outdoors for unamended soils ranged from 19 to 140 ng/m2 day, whereas those for soil amended with ash to simulate an agricultural application ranged from 7.2 to 230 ng/m2 day. Fluxes for soil stabilized with ash ranged from 77 to 530 ng/m2 day and for soil with pads constructed of ash ranged from -50 to 90 ng/m2 day. Simple analytical tests (i.e., total Hg content, synthetic precipitation leaching procedure, heating, and indoor gas-exchange experiments) were performed to assess whether algorithms based on these tests could be used to predict Hg fluxes observed outdoors using the flux chamber. Based on this study, no consistent relationships could be developed. More work is needed to assess long-term and seasonal variations in Hg flux from (intact and disturbed) substrates before annual estimates of emissions can be developed.
Co-digestion of waste activated sludge and kitchen garbage]	The effects of mixture ratio and hydraulic retention time on mesophilic co-digestion of waste activated sludge and kitchen garbage were investigated, and the mixtures having the ratios of 75%:25%, 50%:50% and 25%:75% on a TS basis, operated at the HRTs of 10d, 15d and 20d. In all the digesters, with an OLR 1.53-5.63 g/(L x d), there were no indication of failure, such as low pH, insufficient alkalinity, ammonia inhibition and accumulation of VFAs. The optimum operating conditions of all the digesters were found to be a mixture of 50%:50% in terms of the stability and performance, buffer capacity was the highest. The volatile solid removal efficiency, specific methane production and methane content in this condition achieved 51.1%-56.4%, 0.353-0.373 L/g and 61.8%-67.4%.
Changes in bacterial community during fermentative hydrogen and acid production from organic waste by thermophilic anaerobic microflora.	Changes in fermentation pattern during the treatment of organic wastes containing solid materials by thermophilic anaerobic microflora were investigated with respect to product formation and bacterial community structure during hydrogen production.
A comparison of river water quality sampling methodologies under highly variable load conditions.	When river water quality fluctuates over relatively short periods of time with respect to the sampling frequency, the collection of grab samples may be inappropriate for characterising average water quality. This paper presents the results of a water quality monitoring study carried out on a stretch of the river Lambro (northern Italy) dominated by a periodically overloaded sewage treatment works (STW) located near its upstream end. Water quality was strongly influenced by a pronounced diurnal cycle in pollutant loads caused by the regular emission of untreated waste water during periods of high domestic flow (daytime). Two different sampling techniques were employed: grab sampling and 24-h composite sampling using automatic samplers. Samples were collected at the plant overflow and at several sites along the river and analysed for two common ingredients of household detergents, linear alkylbenzene sulphonate (LAS) and boron (B) and for routine water quality variables. The results obtained show that: (1) The diurnal variability of point-source-derived chemical concentrations in the river downstream of the undersized STW increased with increasing removal efficiency in sewage treatment. (2) The shape of the diurnal concentration signal remained relatively intact for a considerable distance downstream of the STW for several water quality variables, suggesting that hydrodynamic dispersion plays a relatively minor role in controlling concentration patterns in this river. (3) In-stream degradation of LAS was consistent with first order kinetics with a rate constant of 0.05-0.06 h(-1). (4) Grab sampling is a relatively inefficient methodology for capturing mean concentrations for rivers subjected to highly variable loads, especially when it is restricted to office hours. The inefficiency of grab sampling is more marked for substances (e.g. LAS) which are effectively removed during sewage treatment than for substances which are not. (5) For LAS, diurnal variability in the concentration signal decreases with distance downstream, making grab sampling an increasingly reliable methodology for estimating mean concentrations. (6) 24-h composite sampling is an efficient way of eliminating the effect of diurnal variations in load strength.
Improving the performance of sequencing batch reactor (SBR) by the addition of zeolite powder.	Two types of operation means "SBR reactor alone (control reactor)" and "adding zeolite powder into SBR reactor (test reactor)" were used to treat municipal wastewater. The test results revealed that zeolite powder addition could improve the activity of the activated sludge. It was investigated the specific oxygen utilization rate (SOUR) of the tested zeolite sludge were about double times that of the control activated sludge, and the nitrification rate and settling property of zeolite-activated sludge were both improved. Due to the combination of zeolite adsorption for NH(4)(+)-N and enhanced simultaneous nitrification and de-nitrification (SND), a higher nitrogen removal was observed in test reactor compared to the control reactor, and the addition of zeolite powder is helpful to inhabit sludge bulking. In addition, through long-term parallel shock load test, it was found that the zeolite powder addition could enhance the ability of activated sludge in resisting the shock load of organics and ammonium. Compared to the control activated sludge, zeolite powder added activated sludge could remove COD, NH(4)(+)-N, TN and TP significantly in a shorter cycle time. At the same operational time period, the test SBR could treat wastewater quantity 1.22 times that treated in control SBR.
Detection of micronucleus and abnormal nucleus in erythrocytes from the gill and kidney of Labeo bata cultivated in sewage-fed fish farms.	Determination of genotoxic effect in fish, micronucleus test as well as the study of the abnormal shape of nuclei is a suitable measure, in which the presence or absence of genotoxins can be detected in water. In the present study, micronuclei and abnormal nuclei frequencies were scored in the gill and kidney erythrocytes of the fish Labeo bata grown in the sewage-fed fish farms of East Calcutta wetlands. Three experimental sites were chosen, namely, Bantala, Chowbaga and Chingrihata (basically these sites have sewage-fed fishponds), which were compared with fishponds of no sewage influence as the control area. Highly significant differences (P<0.001) were noticed for micronucleus frequencies in the gill and kidney erythrocytes of experimental fishes, where kidney erythrocytes showed an increased value than gill erythrocytes without any statistical differences. The frequencies of nuclear abnormalities such as necrotic cells, apoptotic cells, notch nucleated cells and binucleated cells were also counted separately for gill and kidney erythrocytes, in which significantly (P<0.001, P<0.01, P<0.05) increased values were obtained in comparison to control populations. These genotoxicity results confirmed that the sewage-fed ponds contain genotoxic metals such as Cr, Zn, Cu, Pb, Mn, Fe through wastewater and sludge because of the direct use of sewage water without pretreatment which may lead to health risks among humans through chronic consumption of fish from these experimental fish ponds. Other vertebrates grown in sewage-fed ponds may also suffer a certain amount of genotoxic substances.
Scaling filtration time initial dependencies of wastewater sludges.	The filtration time, t(f), during constant pressure dead-end filtration testing of wastewater sludge is dependant on the initial height, h(0), and the initial solids concentration, phi(0). The theoretical dependencies of these initial conditions are explored: t(f) varies with h(0)(2) and cphi(0)(2), where c is a material dependant parameter that is also dependant on phi(0) and the applied pressure. Empirical values for c relative to a given phi(0) are determined from phenomenological filtration theory to give a qualitative scaling method to compare the filtration behaviour of highly compressible materials under differing initial conditions. The method is validated using filtration testing of municipal wastewater sludge. This new scaling method is applied to the filtration results of a range of different wastewater sludges, additives and treatments to illustrate its application for plant comparisons, polyelectrolyte comparisons, dose optimisation of polyelectrolyte and ferric chloride and combinations thereof, and the effects of two physicochemical treatments.
Conversion of paper sludge to ethanol. I: impact of feeding frequency and mixing energy characterization.	In this paper, conversion of paper sludge to ethanol was investigated with the objective of optimization of the overall operation costs. Experimental work was undertaken to optimize cellulase loading, and to determine mixing energy requirements. It was found that decreasing feeding frequency (feed additions per residence time) allows the cellulase loading to be decreased at least two fold with no decrease in cellulose conversion but also entails mixing a slurry of higher solids content and lower conversion at the beginning of the operating cycle. The viscosity of paper sludge slurries was found to increase exponentially with decreasing conversion and increasing solid content. In particular, the viscosity (V) was described well by equation V = e(kX-X )(0)(S-S)(0)+C (V viscosity (cp), X conversion, S solid content (g/L), k, X (0), S (0), C are empirical parameters). Added costs associated with operating at low feeding frequencies (including higher mixing energy and higher capital costs for the motor and for sludge hold tasks) were found to be small compared to the economic benefits resulting from reduced cellulase loading.
Conversion of paper sludge to ethanol, II: process design and economic analysis.	Process design and economics are considered for conversion of paper sludge to ethanol. A particular site, a bleached kraft mill operated in Gorham, NH by Fraser Papers (15 tons dry sludge processed per day), is considered. In addition, profitability is examined for a larger plant (50 dry tons per day) and sensitivity analysis is carried out with respect to capacity, tipping fee, and ethanol price. Conversion based on simultaneous saccharification and fermentation with intermittent feeding is examined, with ethanol recovery provided by distillation and molecular sieve adsorption. It was found that the Fraser plant achieves positive cash flow with or without xylose conversion and mineral recovery. Sensitivity analysis indicates economics are very sensitive to ethanol selling price and scale; significant but less sensitive to the tipping fee, and rather insensitive to the prices of cellulase and power. Internal rates of return exceeding 15% are projected for larger plants at most combinations of scale, tipping fee, and ethanol price. Our analysis lends support to the proposition that paper sludge is a leading point-of-entry and proving ground for emergent industrial processes featuring enzymatic hydrolysis of cellulosic biomass.
Determination of bulk mass transfer coefficient of biosorption on sludge granule based on liquid membrane mass transfer mechanism.	A bulk mass transfer coefficient (BMTC) equation was derived from the mechanism of mass transfer in surface liquid membrane in this study, which was based on the analysis of biosorption process, conservation of mass in sludge granule and the unification of the dimension. A biosorption experiment was carried out in which anoxic sludge from an anoxic baffled reactor for printing and dyeing wastewater treatment was used to adsorb Acid Red GR dye. The results showed that there was a linear regression curve between ln[qe/(qe-q)] (qe and q were the amount adsorbed at equilibrium and at time t, respectively.) and time t. There was also a good agreement between the adsorbate amount measured and that predicted by the equation of BMTC. The BMTC of Acid Red GR dye adsorbed by anoxic sludge was 6.816 kgm(-3)min(-1). Experimental results indicated that the BMTC determined by a simple adsorptive experiment using this equation was credible. It could be a feasible and effective way to determine BMTC of activated sludge for biosorption performance.
Bioavailability and plant accumulation of heavy metals and phosphorus in agricultural soils amended by long-term application of sewage sludge.	Amendment of agricultural soils with municipal sewage sludges provides a valuable source of plant nutrients and organic matter. Nevertheless, addition of heavy metals and risks of eutrophication continue to be of concern. Metal behaviour in soils and plant uptake are dependent on the nature of the metal, sludge/soil physico-chemical properties and plant species. A pot experiment was carried out to evaluate plant production and heavy metal uptake, soil heavy metal pools and bioavailability, and soil P pools and possible leaching losses, in agricultural soils amended with sewage sludge for at least 10 years (F20) compared to non-amended soils (control). Sewage sludge application increased soil pH, N, Olsen-extractable-P, DOC and exchangeable Ca, Mg and K concentrations. Total and EDTA-extractable soil concentrations of Cu and Zn were also significantly greater in F20, and soil metal (Cu, Mn and Zn) and P fractionation altered. Compared to the control, in F20 relative amounts of acid-extractable (Mn, Zn), reducible (Mn, Zn) and oxidisable (Cu, Zn) metal fractions were greater, and a dominance of inorganic P forms was observed. Analyses of F20 soil solutions highlighted risks of PO4 and Cu leaching. However, despite the observed increases in metal bioavailability sewage sludge applications did not lead to an increase in plant shoot concentrations (in wild plants or crop species). On the contrary, depending on the plant species, Mn and Zn tissue concentrations were within the deficiency level for most plants.
Do sewage treatment plant discharges substantially impair fish reproduction in polluted rivers?	Sewage treatment plants are frequently associated with the release of xenobiotics and, consequently, with alterations of the reproductive function induced by many of these substances in aquatic organisms. In order to assess the impacts of sewage treatment plant (STP) discharges in polluted rivers, two sentinel species (gudgeon Gobio gobio and stoneloach Barbatula barbatula) were caught during their reproductive cycle upstream and downstream two STPs (STP1--Goffontaine, STP2--Wegnez). Gonadosomatic index, histological (testicular and ovarian stages, atretic follicles, intersexuality) and endocrine (sex steroids, aromatase activity, alkali-labile phosphorus) parameters were assayed. In brief, the results revealed no systematic significant differences (p<0.05) between upstream and downstream sites, whatever the STP, species or sampling period. However, stoneloach females displayed some signs of reproductive impairment and endocrine disruption downstream STP1 (reduced GSI, oocyte diameter and ALP concentrations, increased proportion of atretic follicles) and STP2 (changes in gonadal aromatase activity and plasma levels of 11-KT and T). Few significant changes were observed for gudgeon males and females while there were no significant differences between upstream and downstream sites for stoneloach males. Moreover, plasma E(2) concentrations recorded in gudgeon males sampled in all sites were as high as in females and this was confirmed by high ALP levels. Besides, spermatogenesis of gudgeon males was delayed in STP1 upstream and downstream sites compared to the corresponding sites in STP2. These observations for gudgeon males do not seem related to STP discharge but to a probable estrogenicity of the river. Therefore, as shown by the results, stoneloach seemed more sensitive than gudgeon to STP discharges. In the present study, sewage treatment plant discharges do not substantially impair fish reproduction. In this respect, caution is required when generalising negative impacts of STP discharges.
Addition of Al and Fe salts during treatment of paper mill effluents to improve activated sludge settlement characteristics.	Metal salts, ferrous sulphate and aluminium chloride, were added to laboratory-scale activated sludge plant treating paper mill effluents to investigate the effect on settlement characteristics. Before treatment the sludge was filamentous, had stirred sludge volume index (SSVI) values in excess of 300 and was moderately hydrophobic. The use of FeSO4.7H2O took three weeks to reduce the SSVI to 90. Microscopic examination showed that Fe had converted the filamentous flocs into a compact structure. When the iron dosing was stopped, the sludge returned to its bulking state within four weeks. In a subsequent trial, the addition of AlCl3 initially resulted in an improvement of the settlement index but then caused deterioration of the sludge properties. It is possible that aluminium was overdosed and caused charge reversal, increasing the SSVI.
Effect of ultrasound pretreatment in mesophilic and thermophilic anaerobic digestion with emphasis on naphthalene and pyrene removal.	In many anaerobic digestion processes for the treatment of the sludge produced in wastewater treatment plants, the hydrolysis of the organic matter has been identified as the rate limiting step. This study is focused on the effect of ultrasonic pretreatment of raw sewage sludge before being fed to the mesophilic and the thermophilic anaerobic digestion. From particle size reduction, COD disintegration degree and biodegradability test, 11,000kJ/kg TS was estimated as the optimal specific energy in ultrasonic pretreatment. Moreover, the use of pretreated sludge improved significantly the COD removal efficiency and biogas production in lab-scale anaerobic digesters when compared with the performance without pretreatment, specially under mesophilic conditions. During ultrasonic pretreatment, the diffusion of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) compounds to the aqueous phase was stated by a reduction in the pretreated sludge micropollutants content. With sonication, naphthalene was better removed than without this pretreatment, particularly in the mesophilic digester. However, pyrene removal remained at same efficiency level with and without ultrasonic pretreatment.
Development and application of a resazurin-based biomass activity test for activated sludge plant management.	A rapid, robust and cost-effective method of assaying the metabolic activity of the biomass of activated sludge plants would be a valuable process control tool in the wastewater treatment industry. We have developed and optimised a simple colorimetric test protocol, based on the redox dye resazurin, in which levels of reduction of the dye are proportional to cell biomass and respiration rate in both freshly sampled municipal sludges and in a surrogate activated sludge culture, Polytox. The method has been used to assess the impact of trade wastes on the activities of two municipal activated sludge populations of differing characteristics.
Fate of sulfonamides, macrolides, and trimethoprim in different wastewater treatment technologies.	The elimination of sulfonamides, macrolides and trimethoprim from raw wastewater was investigated in several municipal wastewater treatment plants. Primary treatment provided no significant elimination for the investigated substances. Similar eliminations were observed in the secondary treatment of two conventional activated sludge (CAS) systems and a fixed-bed reactor (FBR). Sulfamethoxazole, including the fraction present as N4-acetyl-sulfamethoxazole, was eliminated by approximately 60% in comparison to about 80% in a membrane bioreactor (MBR) independently of the solid retention time (SRT), indicating a positive correlation of the observed elimination to the organic substrate concentration. The elimination for macrolides and trimethoprim varied significantly between the different sampling campaigns in the two CAS systems and in the FBR. In the MBR, these analytes were eliminated up to 50% at SRT of 16+/-2 and 33+/-3 d. Trimethoprim, clarithromycin and dehydro-erythromycin showed a higher elimination of up to 90% at a SRT of 60-80 d indicating a correlation with reduced substrate loading (SL). Together with the high SRT, the SL may lead to an increased biodiversity of the active biomass, resulting in a broader range of degradation pathways available. Two investigated sand filters showed different elimination behavior. One led to a significant elimination of most macrolides (17-23%) and trimethoprim (74+/-14%), while no elimination was observed in the other sand filter investigated.
Occurrence of alkylphenolic substances in a Great Lakes coastal marsh, Cootes Paradise, ON, Canada.	Occurrence and fate of alkylphenols (APs), known endocrine disruptors, were investigated in a Great Lakes coastal wetland, Cootes Paradise, ON. The wetland, which receives discharges from a Wastewater Treatment Plant (WTP) and several Combined Sewer Overflows (CSOs), is an important spawning ground for fish and crucial habitat for other fauna. Elevated concentrations of nonylphenol ethoxylates (NPEs) and their degradation product nonylphenol (NP) were found in water and sediment samples near the sources. Since transfer of APs through the food chain is of concern, we compared their concentrations in invertebrates from clean and contaminated sites. The results reveal transfer of alkylphenolics from sediments to biota and their accumulation in the invertebrate tissue, particularly the highly hydrophobic 4-NP, whose concentrations ranged from 1.9 to 6.3 microg g(-1). To our knowledge, this is the first study to evaluate AP concentrations in tissue of benthic invertebrates under real environmental conditions.
Mobility of dimethoate residues from spring broccoli field.	Dimethoate [O, O-dimethyl-S-(N-methylcarbamoyl-methyl) phosphorodithioate] is a broad-spectrum systemic insecticide currently used worldwide and on many vegetables in Kentucky. Dimethoate is a hydrophilic compound (log KOW = 0.7) and has the potential of offsite movement from the application site into runoff and infiltration water. The dissipation patterns of dimethoate residues were studied on spring broccoli leaves and heads under field conditions. Following foliar application of Dimethoate 4E on broccoli foliage at the rate of 0.47 L acre(-1), dimethoate residues were monitored in soil, runoff water collected down the land slope, and in infiltration water collected from the vadose zone. The study was conducted on a Lowell silty loam soil (pH 6.9) planted with broccoli under three soil management practices: (i) soil mixed with municipal sewage sludge, (ii) soil mixed with yard waste compost, and (iii) no-mulch rototilled bare soil. The main objective of this investigation was to study the effect of mixing native soil with municipal sewage sludge or yard waste compost, having considerable amounts of organic matter, on off-site movement of dimethoate residues into runoff and infiltration water following spring rainfall. The initial deposits of dimethoate were 6.2 and 21.4 micro g g(-1) on broccoli heads and leaves, respectively. These residues dissipated rapidly and fell below the maximum residue limit of 2 micro g g(-1) on the heads and leaves after 10 and 14 d, respectively, with half-lives of 5.7 d on broccoli heads and 3.9 d on the leaves. Dimethoate residues detected in top 15 cm of soil (due to droplet drift and wash off residues from broccoli foliage) one day (d) following spraying, were 30.5 ng g(-1) dry soil in the sewage sludge treatment, and 46.1 and 134.5 ng g(-1) dry soil in the yard waste and no mulch treatments, respectively. Water infiltration was greater from yard waste compost treatment than from no mulch treatment, however concentrations of dimethoate in the vadose zone of the three soil treatments did not differ.
Environmental release and mass flux partitioning of PCDD/Fs during normal and transient operation of full scale waste to energy plants.	The paper reports on global release and mass partitioning in the flux of residues of PCDD/Fs, evaluated with dedicated field campaigns at a municipal solid waste incineration plant during normal and transient operation. Results are compared with those obtained in other installations equipped with furnaces, energy recovery options and flue gas treatment technologies representative of most of the European incineration plants currently in operation. Levels of the pollutants of interest were determined in all the solid, liquid and gaseous residues produced by every single facility, and the results analysed in terms of the effects arising from the fed waste and the configuration of the plant. PCDD/Fs total release between 1.5 and 45 microg I-TEQ per ton of burned waste was evaluated, with lower values resulting from the adoption of catalytic conversion process for flue gas treatment. Most of the mass flux emitted is associated with solid residues deriving from activated carbon PCCD/F dry removal options, with significant contributions also from fly ash produced by particulate removal devices located immediately downstream the boiler and from scrubber blowdowns treatment sludge. During transient operating conditions the dioxin total release may increase by 50% with comparison to steady-state functioning.
A new generic approach for estimating the concentrations of down-the-drain chemicals at catchment and national scale.	A new generic approach for estimating chemical concentrations in rivers at catchment and national scales is presented. Domestic chemical loads in waste water are estimated using gridded population data. River flows are estimated by combining predicted runoff with topographically derived flow direction. Regional scale exposure is characterised by two summary statistics: PEC(works), the average concentration immediately downstream of emission points, and, PEC(area), the catchment-average chemical concentration. The method was applied to boron at national (England and Wales) and catchment (Aire-Calder) scales. Predicted concentrations were within 50% of measured mean values in the Aire-Calder catchment and in agreement with results from the GREAT-ER model. The concentration grids generated provide a picture of the spatial distribution of expected chemical concentrations at various scales, and can be used to identify areas of potentially high risk.
Revegetation of abandoned agricultural land amended with biosolids.	This paper reports the effects of applying 0 and 40 Mg ha(-1) of biosolids (composted sewage sludge) on the revegetation of abandoned cropland in central Spain. The experimental vegetation consisted of four wild leguminous species: Colutea arborescens, Dorycnium pentaphyllum, Medicago strasseri and Retama sphaerocarpa. The survival and growth of these shrubs were evaluated over 24 months after planting, as was the production of biomass by the spontaneous herbaceous vegetation. Application of the biosolids increased shrub growth, although it was also associated with a slight reduction in shrub survival. The spontaneous vegetation became quickly established in the amended plots; its biomass production was significantly greater than in the control plots.
Quantitative determination of octylphenol, nonylphenol, alkylphenol ethoxylates and alcohol ethoxylates by pressurized liquid extraction and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry in soils treated with sewage sludges.	Surfactants have one of the highest production rates of all organic chemicals. Non-ionic surfactants, especially alkylphenol ethoxylates, received most attention as precursors of estrogenic metabolic products generated during wastewater treatment. Alkylphenols (octyl and nonylphenol), alkylphenol polyethoxylates (APEOs), and alcohol ethoxylates (AEOs) have been determined in a Mediterranean forest soil (Mediterranean Rendzic Leptosol) amended with sludges from six waste water treatment plants (WWTPs) located in the Valencian Community. These compounds were isolated from soil by pressurized liquid extraction (PLE) using a mixture acetone-hexane (50:50 v/v), the extracts were cleaned up by solid-phase extraction (SPE) with C(18), and determined by liquid chromatography atmospheric pressure chemical ionization-mass spectrometry (LC-APCI-MS) using analytical standards for quantification. The method enabled high-reliable identification by monitoring the corresponding ammonium adduct [M+NH(3)](+) for AEOs and APEOs, and the deprotonated molecule [M-H](-) for octyl and nonylphenol. Recoveries, determined spiking soil samples at different concentrations, ranged from 89 to 94%, with limits of quantification from 1 to 100 microg kg(-1). Data obtained from a soil sample mixed with biosolids in the laboratory showed that these compounds are present at concentrations ranging from 0.02 to 5 mg kg(-1). According to these concentrations, levels of possible risk can be concluded for the presence of non-ionic surfactants in soil. However, further assessment will be necessary to establish the relationship between exposure and effect findings.
Evaluation of the soil biological activity in a remediation soil assay using organic amendments and vegetal cover.	The recovery of a degraded soil was assayed in greenhouse conditions by applying organic amendments and revegetation with grasses. Two types of organic residues were used: sewage sludge composted with pruning waste (CPW), at 8.5 and 85 Mg ha(-1) and sewage sludge treated by thermal drying (TD), at 22 and 46 Mg ha(-1). The vegetal cover was established by sowing different herbaceous species commonly used in the revegetation of degraded alkaline soils (100 and 200 Kg of seeds ha(-1)). The chemical soil parameters and enzymatic activities (alkaline phosphatase, urease, and beta-glucosidase) and the vegetal biomass were evaluated. The type of amendment and the doses applied had different effects on the soil characteristics. However sowing dose did not have a significant effect on the parameters analysed. Organic matter was the only soil parameter affected by the interaction between the sowing rate and the amendment dose. The phosphatase and glucosidase activities showed significant correlation with the percentage of N in the leaves and stems, furthermore the phosphate activity was significantly related to the dry weight of leaves and stems.
Organic matter in degraded agricultural soils amended with composted and thermally-dried sewage sludges.	The cumulative and residual effects of composted and thermally-dried sewage sludge (CSS and TSS, respectively) on soil organic matter and its humified fraction were evaluated in a field experiment under Mediterranean conditions. The experimental design included soil plots either unamended (control) or amended with mineral fertilizer, CSS and TSS at rates of 20 and 80 t ha(-)(1). After the first year of sewage sludge application, each plot was divided into two subplots. In one subplot group, no additional application of SS was made in the following 3 years, and the residual effect of the first applications was evaluated. In the second subplot group, the cumulative effect of sludge amendments was evaluated by applying CSS and TSS also in the following three consecutive years. Nine months after the yearly sludge and mineral fertilizer applications, surface soil samples from control and amended soils were collected and analyzed for total organic C (TOC), total extractable C (TEC), and humified C fractions, both humic acid C (HAC) and fulvic acid C (FAC) fractions. Compared with the control and mineral treatments, which showed similar results, the repeated application to soil of TSS, and specially CSS, induced an increase on the content of the organic fractions examined, as well as HA percentage (%HA=HAC/TOC) and degree of polymerisation (DP=HAC/FAC). In the residual experiment, the TOC, TEC, HAC and FAC content of soils amended once with CSS and TSS decreased slightly when increasing the time from the amendment, whereas the %HA and DP tended to increase. Further, three years after the sludge applications, with respect to the control soil, the soils amended once with CSS exhibited similar TOC, TEC, and FAC content, and slightly larger HAC content, %HA and DP; whereas those amended once with TSS, featured still larger TOC, TEC, HAC content, similar FAC content, and slightly larger %HA and DP values. As a whole, the results obtained suggested that both kind of sludges contribute to improved soil organic matter levels and humified fractions, although the CSS contribution can be considered as a more efficient organic amendment than the TSS, which may present problems of maturity and degradability.
Chelate-assisted phytoextraction of heavy metals in a soil contaminated with a pyritic sludge.	The occurrence of many polluted areas as that affected by the accident of the Aznalcllar pyrite mine has promoted phytoremediation as a technology able to reduce the risk of heavy metal contamination at low cost. White lupin plant has been considered a good candidate for phytoremediation. We studied the capacity of several complexing agents to improve the ability of white lupin for heavy metal phytoremediation in soils with multi-elemental pollution from acid pyritic sludge. Solution-soil interaction was studied and pot experiments with sludge-affected soil were carried out to this end. The interaction experiments indicated that EDTA and NTA were more efficient than malate and citrate in solubilizing metals (Fe, Mn, Cu, Zn, Cd), with minimum differences between EDTA and NTA. The pot trial showed that NTA was able to mobilize toxic elements from sludge-polluted soil and hence increasing their concentrations in plant (Mn, Cu, Zn, As, Cd). However, the NTA treatment promoted an increase of toxic elements concentrations, especially for As, Cd, Pb, in the lixiviates exceeding the maximum permissible levels, so a careful management of chelate is necessary.
Comparison between alternating aerobic-anoxic and conventional activated sludge systems.	Conventional activated sludge systems ensure removal of colloidal and dissolved carbonaceous organic matter whereas alternating aerobic-anoxic systems, in addition, satisfy a further reduction in nitrogen content of wastewater. Main difference between them is that the alternating system should also include an anoxic operation mode which satisfies denitrification. In other words conventional systems are operated under aerobic conditions whereas alternating systems require a periodical change from aerobic conditions to anoxic conditions. So the most important problem in alternating systems is to find the appropriate durations for both sequences. In this study a comparison between conventional and alternating systems is considered in terms of nitrogen removal and aeration time by simulation under the same conditions together with an optimization algorithm. The results show that an activated sludge system can be operated as an alternating aerobic-anoxic system so that nitrogen removal is also possible during treatment without any additional investment or operational cost.
Synthesis of zeolites from paper sludge ash and their ability to simultaneously remove NH4+ and PO43-.	The objective of this study was to investigate the synthesis of zeolites from paper sludge ash, and to evaluate their applications for water purification to simultaneously remove NH4+ and PO43- in aqueous solution. Paper sludge ash had a low abundance of Si and a significant Ca content, due to the presence of calcite that was used as paper filler. Na2SiO3 was added to the NaOH solution to increase Si content in order to synthesize zeolites with high cation exchange capacity. The original ash without addition of Si yielded hydroxysodalite with a cation exchange capacity of ca. 50 cmol/kg. Addition of Si to the solution yielded Na-P1 (zeolite-P) with a higher cation exchange capacity (ca. 120 cmol/kg). The observed concentrations of Si and Al in the solution during the reaction explain crystallizations of these two phases. The product with Na-P1 could simultaneously remove NH4+ and PO43- from the solution between pH 4 and 9.
Organic and inorganic pollution of the Vistula River basin.	The main aim of this work is focused therefore on water quality assessment of the Vistula river and its primary tributaries. The study presents the analytical results of the contamination level of different organic and inorganic pollutants as well as the chemometric evaluation of the entire data set. A broad spectrum of compounds have been determined, including pesticides, polichlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), phenols, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), heavy metals, inorganic ions and some aggregate parameters like BOD. Majority of the organic xenobiotics have been analyzed for first time in the Vistula region on a large, long-term scale. Chemometric evaluation allowed the determination of natural clusters and groups of monitoring locations with similar pollution character. Chemometric analysis confirmed the classification of water purity of the Vistula River basin is related to the land utilization character in this region.
Identification of the virucidal agent in wastewater sludge.	Anaerobically digested sludge contains an agent that causes irreversible inactivation of poliovirus. It has now been shown that the agent responsible for this activity is ammonia. The effect of ammonia on poliovirus appears to be typical for picornaviruses, but reovirus, an enteric virus of another group, is quite resistant to this compound. Because ammonia is not virucidal in its charged state, it expresses significant activity only at pH values greater than 8. Therefore, increasing the pH of sludge should cause rapid inactivation of indigenous picornaviruses.
Comparison of natural estrogen removal efficiency in the conventional activated sludge process and the oxidation ditch process.	The presence of natural estrogens, 17beta-estradiol (E2), estrone (E1) and estriol (E3), as well as estrogenic activity in wastewater influents and secondary effluents were investigated in 20 full-scale wastewater treatment plants in Japan. In all of the influent samples, natural estrogens were detected at concentrations above the minimum limits of detection (0.5ng/L). The concentrations of natural estrogens detected in the effluent of oxidation ditch plants were generally lower than previously reported values. On the other hand, in the conventional activated sludge plants, increments of E1 during biological treatment were frequently observed although E2 and E3 were removed effectively in the process. The removal rates of natural estrogens or estrogenic activity show no observed statistical relationship with the solids retention time (SRT) and the hydraulic retention time (HRT). However, the plants with high SRT or HRT generally showed high and stable removal of both natural estrogens and estrogenic activity.
Phenotypic differentiation of bifidobacteria of human and animal origins.	The phenotypes of 153 strains belonging or related to the genus Bifidobacterium were studied. These organisms included 38 collection strains and 115 wild strains (41 strains of human origin, 56 strains of animal origin, and 18 strains obtained from rivers or sewage). Our phenotypic analysis revealed seven main groups that were subdivided into 20 subgroups. Seven subgroups contained no type or collection strain. Among the human strains, the type strains of Bifidobacterium pseudocatenulatum and B. catenulatum fell into group I, which contained the type strains of B. adolescentis (subgroup Ib), B. dentium (subgroup Ic), and B. angulatum (ungrouped). The type strain of B. breve belonged to subgroup IIIa1, and the type strains of B. infantis and B. longum fell into subgroup IIIb1. Group VII comprised only wild strains that were isolated from human infant feces. Among the animal strains, group II consisted mainly of bifidobacteria that were isolated from pig feces and contained the type strains of B. suis (subgroup IIb), B. thermophilum (subgroup IIf), B. choerinum, and B. boum (ungrouped). Wild strains belonging to group V were isolated from pig, calf, cow, and chicken feces; this included the type strains of B. animalis (subgroup Va), B. magnum (subgroup Vb), B. pseudolongum, and B. globosum (subgroup Vc). The strains of human origin (groups I, III, and VII) were well separated from the animal strains (groups II, IV, and V). It was not surprising that the wild strains isolated from surface water or sewage were distributed in the animal groups as well as the human groups. Thus, bifidobacteria can be considered to be successful indicators of human or animal fecal pollution when they are correctly classified. The acidification patterns were not adequate to differentiate Bifidobacterium species, as determined previously by Mitsuoka (Bifidobacteria Microflora 3:11-28, 1984) and Scardovi (p. 1418-1434, in P. H. A. Sneath, N. S. Mair, M. E. Sharpe, and J. G. Holt, ed., Bergey's Manual of Systematic Bacteriology, vol. 2, 1986). However, enzymatic tests furnished new taxonomic criteria for the genus.
Effects of hydraulic retention time (HRT) and sludge retention time (SRT) on the treatment of nitrobenzene in AMBR/CSTR reactor systems.	The effect of hydraulic retention time (HRT) and solid retention time (SRT) on the biodegradation of a synthetic wastewater containing nitrobenzene was investigated in a sequential anaerobic migrating blanket reactor (AMBR) and aerobic completely stirred tank reactor (CSTR) system. Reactor performance was evaluated at six different HRTs (1,1.5,2,2.5,3.5,5.19 and 10.38 days) and at six different SRTs (32,53,76,217,415 and 932 days). The influent COD and nitrobenzene concentration were kept constant at 3000 mg l(-1) and 60 mg l(-1), respectively, during continuous operation. The maximum COD removal efficiency was found to be 92% at a HRT of 10.38 days and a SRT of 932 days in AMBR reactor. However, nitrobenzene removal efficiencies were found to be 99.9% through all HRTs and SRTs in AMBR reactor. Most of the influent COD and nitrobenzene concentrations were removed in first compartment of AMBR. The total and methane gas production rates increased from 2760 ml day(-1) to 11760 ml day(-1) and from 1300 ml day(-1) to 3331 ml day(-1), respectively, as the HRT was decreased from 10.38 to 1 day in AMBR. However, methane percentage decreased from 47% to 28% with decreased HRTs and SRTs. The methanogens inhibition was observed at lower HRTs. pH values in the compartments and the effluent of AMBR was between optimum values. TVFA concentrations in effluent of AMBR were measured as zero until a HRT of 3.5 days. In the aerobic CSTR reactor, the COD removal efficiency decreased from 79% to 68% with decreased HRT from 6.79 to 0.67 days. It was found that the nitrobenzene transformed to aniline under anaerobic phase, and then the aniline mineralized in the oxidative stage, with efficiencies varying between 79% to 99.9%, in anaerobic/aerobic reactor system.
Anaerobic digestion potential of urban organic waste: a case study in Malm.	A study of existing organic waste types in Malm, Sweden was performed. The purpose was to gather information about organic waste types in the city to be able to estimate the potential for anaerobic treatment in existing digesters at the wastewater treatment plan (WWTP). The urban organic waste types that could have a significant potential for anaerobic digestion amount to about 50 000 tonnes year(-1) (sludge excluded). Some of the waste types were further evaluated by methane potential tests and continuous pilot-scale digestion. Single-substrate digestion and co-digestion of pre-treated, source-sorted organic fraction of municipal solid waste, wastewater sludge, sludge from grease traps and fruit and vegetable waste were carried out. The experiments showed that codigestion of grease sludge and WWTP sludge was a better way of making use of the methane potential in the grease trap sludge than single-substrate digestion. Another way of increasing the methane production in sludge digesters is to add source-sorted organic fraction of municipal solid waste (SSOFMSW). Adding SSOFMSW (20% of the total volatile solids) gave a 10-15% higher yield than could be expected by comparison with separate digestion of sludge respective SSOFMSW. Co-digestion of sludge and organic waste is beneficial not just for increasing gas production but also for stabilizing the digestion process. This was seen when co-digesting fruit and vegetable waste and sludge. When co-digested with sludge, this waste gave a better result than the separate digestion of fruit and vegetable waste. Considering single-substrate digestion, SSOFMSW is the only waste in the study which makes up a sufficient quantity to be suitable as the base substrate in a full-scale digester that is separated from the sludge digestion. The two types of SSOFMSW tested in the pilot-scale digestion were operated successfully at mesophilic temperature. By adding SSOFMSW, grease trap sludge and fruit and vegetables waste to sludge digesters at the wastewater treatment plant, the yearly energy production from methane could be expected to increase from 24 to 43 GWh.
Human intestinal cells incubated with activated sludge and lipopolysaccharide express Hsp90b.	Intestinal cells are the first line of defense against toxic substances that may enter the body orally. Some of these substances may emanate from wastewater treatment plants and thus may eventually enter the food chain. In this study, human intestinal Caco-2 cells were incubated with biologically treated activated sludge and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to determine changes in protein expression and cell monolayer integrity. Caco-2 cells incubated for 3 h with 24-h-aerated activated sludge or 220 microg/ml LPS showed enhanced expression of the heat shock protein 90b (Hsp90b). The results further show that 220 microg/ml LPS is sufficient to irreversibly disrupt tight-junction permeability in 30 min. The Hsp90b expression by the Caco-2 cells incubated with biologically treated activated sludge may be a cellular protective mechanism against LPS-induced stress.
Model evaluation of temperature dependency for carbon and nitrogen removal in a full-scale activated sludge plant treating leather-tanning wastewater.	Organic carbon and nitrogen removal performance of a full-scale activated sludge plant treating pre-settled leather tanning wastewater was evaluated under dynamic process temperatures. Emphasis was placed upon observed nitrogen removal depicting a highly variable magnitude with changing process temperatures. As the plant was not specifically designed for this purpose, observed nitrogen removal could be largely attributed to simultaneous nitrification and denitrification presumably occurring at increased process temperatures (T>25 degrees C) and resulting low dissolved oxygen levels (DO<0.5 mgO2/L). Model evaluation using long-term data revealed that the yearly performance of activated sludge reactor could be successfully calibrated by means of temperature dependent parameters associated with nitrification, hydrolysis, ammonification and endogenous decay parameters. In this context, the Arrhenius coefficients of (i) for the maximum autotrophic growth rate, [image omitted]A, (ii) maximum hydrolysis rate, khs and (iii) endogenous heterotrophic decay rate, bH were found to be 1.045, 1.070 and 1.035, respectively. The ammonification rate (ka) defining the degradation of soluble organic nitrogen could not be characterized however via an Arrhenius-type equation.
Factors affecting nutrient solubilization from sewage sludge using microwave-enhanced advanced oxidation process.	A microwave-enhanced advanced oxidation process using hydrogen peroxide (MW-H2O2-AOP) was used for the solubilization of phosphate and ammonia from secondary municipal sludge. Two sets of experiments were performed to determine the factors affecting nutrient solubilization from sewage sludge. Four factors--microwave heating temperature, heating time, hydrogen peroxide treatment, and sulphuric acid treatment--were incorporated into a screening design to determine which factors were significant for maximizing nutrient solubilization. For phosphorus, the three most significant factors, following the order of significance, were (i) microwave heating temperature, (ii) the combined effect of microwave heating temperature and hydrogen peroxide hydrogen peroxide addition, (iii) microwave heating temperature, and (iv) sulphuric acid addition.
Studies on the dynamics of Salmonella organisms in raw sewage treatment plants]	The dynamics of Salmonella organisms in raw sewage treatment plants was studied over a period from July 1987 to August 1989. An experiment where Salmonella ser. Havana NAr was introduced into raw sewage was also performed over 2 days during this period. The results are as follows. 1) A number of strains of Salmonella could be isolated usually from samples drawn from raw sewage influent and up to the activated sludge stage of sewage processing. 2) After Salmonella ser. Havana NAr was introduced into raw sewage, the number of the organisms decreased in the activated sludge process to 1/1000 and the organisms were not found in the treatment plants after about forty days. 3) These results suggest that Salmonellas are adsorbed to activated sludge or other sludges, and are not discharged into rivers from this treatment plant. 4) The possibility of being able to determine the strain of Salmonella in regional epidemics by serovars of Salmonella detected in raw sewage treatment plants was suggested.
Impact of sewage discharging on environmental geochemical processes of nutrients in the Yangtze estuarine and tidal flats]	Influences of sewage discharge on environmental geochemical processes of nutrients were investigated in the Yangtze estuarine and tidal flats. The result indicated that the environmental elements obviously responded to sewage discharging. There was obvious enrichment of NH4+ -N, TIN, TDP, Ads-P, Fe-P and CFAP + Ca-P in overlying water, surface sediments and its pore waters adjacent to sewage outlets in the Yangtze Estuary. The enrichment of nutrients N and P was considered to be related not only to the inputs of nutrients from sewage outlets, but also to the changes of environmental factors induced by sewage discharge. On the contrary, there was no significant enrichment of NO(x)(-) -N in the tidal water, pore waters and surface sediments from the Yangtze Estuary, which showed that external inputs of nutrients was not the primary factor controlling the distributions of NO(x)(-) -N. It was also shown that the diffusive fluxes of nutrients N and P across sediment-water interface was markedly higher at sewage outlets than the control sampling sites in tidal flats, indicating that sewage discharge not only increased the accumulation of nutrients N and P in the tidal flats, but also strengthened the exchange processed of nutrients across tidal sediment-water interface.
Anthropogenic subsidies alter stream consumer-resource stoichiometry, biodiversity, and food chains.	Urbanization is dramatically changing nutrient and organic matter regimes in streams, yet the community and ecosystem implications often remain obscure. We assessed the consequences of sewage-derived particulate organic matter (SDPOM) for invertebrate community structure and function in a headwater stream. Using stable isotope analyses, we found assimilation of organic SDPOM to double community secondary production, and stoichiometric analyses revealed SDPOM enriched in phosphorus (P) to foster putatively fast-growing, P-rich consumers in the subsidized reach. This altered consumer-resource stoichiometry impacted both community structure and nutrient fluxes through the invertebrate community. Community structure shifted toward significantly reduced diversity and evenness in the subsidized reach and consequently toward shorter food chains. Our integration of ecological stoichiometry with stable isotope analyses and food web ecology expands the previous focus of traditional ecotoxicology and ecophysiology to an ecosystem-level appreciation of pollutant ecology.
Aeration tank odour by dimethyl sulphoxide (DMSO) waste in sewage.	Sewage plants can experience dimethyl sulphide (DMS) odour problems by at least one mg/L dimethylsulphoxide (DMSO) waste residue in plant influent, through a DMSO/DMS reduction mechanism. This bench-scale batch study simulates in bottles the role of poor aeration in wastewater treatment on the DMSO/DMS and sulphate/H2S reduction. The study compares headspace concentrations of sulphide odorants developed by activated sludge (closed bottles, half full) after six hours under anoxic versus anaerobic conditions, with 0 versus 2 mg/L DMSO addition. Anoxic sludge (0.1 - 2 mg/L dissolved oxygen, DO) with DMSO resulted in about 50 ppmv DMS and no other sulphide, while DMSO-free sludge was free of detectable sulphides. Anaerobic sludge (no measurable DO to the point of sulphate reduction) with DMSO resulted in 22/4/37 ppmv of H2S/methanethiol (MT)/DMS, while DMSO-free sludge resulted in 44/8/2 ppmv of H2S/MT/DMS. It is concluded that common "anoxic" aeration tank zones with measurable DO in bulk water but immeasurable DO inside sludge flocs (nitrate reducing) experience DMSO reduction to DMS that is oxidation resistant and becomes the most important odorant. Under anaerobic conditions, H2S from sulphate reduction becomes an additional important odorant. A strategy is developed that allows operators to determine from the quantity of different sulphides whether the DMSO/DMS mechanism is important at their wastewater plant.
Study of the effect of DMSO on VOS odour production in a wastewater plant.	Odours caused by volatile organic sulphides (VOS) have a history spanning over 20 years for Philadelphia's Northeast Water Pollution Control Plant (NEWPCP). A "canned corn" type of odour has caused residential complaints. Traditional odour control approaches based on hydrogen sulphide failed. This study confirmed that dimethyl sulphoxide (DMSO) from a chemical facility was the dominant cause of the "canned corn" nuisance odour in the form of dimethyl sulphide (DMS). During a discharge, DMSO concentrations up to 12 mg/L were found in the influent of the NEWPCP. Each DMSO concentration peak induced a DMS peak. DMS concentrations increased from less than 50 microg/L to 6 mg/L with a corresponding decrease in DMSO. Approximately 79% of DMSO from the primary sedimentation influent was passed to the effluent, and to downstream processes, such as the aeration tanks where the DMS was volatilised by the aeration. The DMS partial pressure in ambient air of NEWPCP can be between 0.03 and 0.18 x 10(-3) atm during a DMSO discharge. From the above information, the potential of VOS production is estimated and a practical plan for remediation can be designed.
The anatomy of odour wheels for odours of drinking water, wastewater, compost and the urban environment.	In the drinking water and air pollution fields, odour quality characterisation and intensity of each odour characteristic needs to be developed to evaluate the causes of the odours present. Drinking water quality characterisation has matured to the point where an "odour wheel" is described and the primary chemicals producing the odour are known and therefore a potential treatment can be defined from the odours reported. Sufficient understanding of the types of odorous compounds that can arise from wastewater and compost treatment processes and odours in the urban environment are starting to emerge. This article presents the anatomy of the odour wheels. It is hoped that the foundation of odour wheels will evolve as odour quality data are reported and linked with chemical causation. The compost and urban odour wheels are presented in print for the first time.
Characterisation of odour masking agents often used in the solid waste industry for odour abatement.	Odours from waste management facilities, wastewater treatment plants and composting areas have become a major nuisance issue for operators. In addition to facing regulations which tend to become more stringent, operators are also facing increased public pressure due to complaints from neighbours resulting in the temporary shutdown of such plants, therefore the elimination of atmospheric odours is becoming a major industrial objective. Many commercial odour control products are available on the market, however, very little is known concerning their real efficiency and mechanism of action. This paper will present the results from the study of 19 agents collected in various countries. The products were first characterised both in terms of their chemical composition and sensory properties. Selected products with different modes of application were then submitted to a study of their efficiency at the pilot-scale level. The results from one product test showed no significant difference in their odour removal efficiency as determined by olfactory and chemical analysis of the emission before and after application of the odour control product.
Modelling of secondary clarifier using regression analysis and artificial neural networks.	Mathematical models for the surface area of secondary clarifier were developed for wastewater generated from a dairy industry and from domestic sources, by correlating the parameters namely, surface area per unit flow rate (A/Q), influent concentration (C(O)), underflow concentration (C(U)), recycling ratio (r) and Mean Cell Residence Time (theta C) using multiple regression analysis. There was found a good correlation between the measured data and the model results with regression coefficients of 0.9. Thickener area requirement of combined wastewater was comparehat obtained for dairy wastewater. Thickener area was found to decrease with increase in Mean Cell Residence Time and the area required for treating the combined wastewater was less, when compared with the requirement for dairy wastewater treatment. Neural network was trained with experimental data to 'acquire' knowledge about it. The Back Propagation Network technique was used in which the error was back propagated through the network. The results evolved from the neural network training were compared with the results of regression model and experimental data. Greater deviation was observed between the observed and predicted values of A/Q at high underflow concentrations, indicating that the limiting solids flux was reached. The output from Neural Network approach had greater consistency with the experimental data than the output from conventional regression analysis. Hence, Artificial Neural Network technique is highly adaptive and efficient in investigating input - output relationships.
Spatio-temporal variations of organic carbon and chlorophyll degradation products in the surficial sediments of Izmir Bay (Aegean Sea/Turkey).	The aim of this research is to determine the effects of Izmir Big Channel Waste Water Treatment Project on the sediment quality of Izmir Bay. Wastewater treatment improves the water quality. However, sediment does not respond to this treatment as fast as water column. Monitoring of bottom water and sediment quality is necessary for identification of the recovery of the whole ecosystem. For this purpose, bottom water and sediment samples were collected from three stations which are located in the middle and inner parts of the Izmir Bay on a monthly basis between January 2003 and December 2003. Values measured at stations ranged between; 0.54-12.82 microg/L for chlorophyll-a, 0.09-9.32 microg/L for phaeopigment, 0.05-1.91 mg/L for particulate organic carbon in bottom waters, 11.88-100.29 microg/g for chlorophyll degradation products and 1.12-5.39% for organic carbon in sediment samples. In conclusion, it was found that grazing activity explained carbon variations in sediment at station 2, but at station 1 and station 3 carbon variations in sediment were not related to autochthonous biological processes.
Treatability studies with granular activated carbon (GAC) and sequencing batch reactor (SBR) system for textile wastewater containing direct dyes.	The GAC-SBR efficiency was decreased with the increase of dyestuff concentration or the decrease of bio-sludge concentration. The system showed the highest removal efficiency with synthetic textile wastewater (STWW) containing 40 mg/L direct red 23 or direct blue 201 under MLSS of 3,000 mg/L and hydraulic retention time (HRT) of 7.5 days. But, the effluent NO(3)(-) was higher than that of the influent. Direct red 23 was more effective than direct blue 201 to repress the GAC-SBR system efficiency. The dyes removal efficiency of the system with STWW containing direct red 23 was reduced by 30% with the increase of direct red 23 from 40 mg/L to 160 mg/L. The system with raw textile wastewater (TWW) showed quite low BOD(5) TKN and dye removal efficiencies of only 64.7+/-4.9% and 50.2+/-6.9%, respectively. But its' efficiencies could be increased by adding carbon sources (BOD(5)). The dye removal efficiency with TWW was increased by 30% and 20% by adding glucose (TWW+glucose) or Thai rice noodle wastewater (TWW+TRNWW), respectively. SRT of the systems were 28+/-1 days and 31+/-2 days with TWW+glucose and TWW+TRNWW, respectively.
Migration and transformation of nitrogen in a HRAP treating domestic wastewater in rural area]	The migration and transformation of nitrogen were studied in a high-rate algal pond (HRAP) treating domestic wastewater. Total nitrogen varied from 17.13 mg/L to 133.2 mg/L while ammonia ranged from 1.85 mg/L to 108.3 mg/L in domestic wastewater. At HRT of 8 d, the annual average removal efficiency for TN and ammonia were 29.4% and 91.6%, respectively in the two-stage HRAP. The treatment performance ranked in a descending order as follows: summer, autumn, spring, winter. The major mechanism for the migration and transformation of nitrogen in HRAP were nitrification, assimilation by algae and others such as ammonia evaporation. Nitrification contributed to more than 50% of ammonia removal. Despite the possibility, the contribution of ammonia precipitation was negligible in HRAP. The total nitrogen was mainly removed through assimilation into particular organics and subsequent separation. The contribution of ammonia evaporation to total nitrogen removal was marginal. The overall removal of TN can be improved by recycling some treated effluent to the upstream septic tank or by upgrading a polishing hydrophyte pond.
The epidemiological relationship between Salmonella isolated from poultry meat and sewage effluents at a long-stay hospital.	Between February 1988 and March 1989 chicken carcases delivered to the kitchen of a long stay psycho-geriatric hospital were screened every week for salmonella contamination. While 214 of 477 (45%) individual carcases carried one or more salmonella types, every single consignment examined contained affected carcases. Simultaneously, sewers draining the residential accommodation and excluding kitchen effluent, were also monitored. Thirty out of 79 (38%) of Moore's swabs were positive for salmonella. There was a statistically significant association between the salmonella types isolated from chicken and those isolated from sewers the following week. Following a change in kitchen policy to order only cooked chicken there was a significant reduction in the isolation of salmonella from the sewers.
Microbial dehalogenation of 4,4'-dichlorobiphenyl under anaerobic conditions.	Anaerobic cultures containing 4,4'-dichlorobiphenyl (4,4'CB) were inoculated with various environmental samples. The degradation of the substrate was followed by gas chromatographic analysis. Three of the cultures tested showed an ability to dehalogenate the substrate, as judged by the presence of 4-chlorobiphenyl and biphenyl in those media inoculated with them.
The types of the epidemic manifestations of cholera on the territory of the USSR]	On the basis of the analysis of cholera cases for the period of 1965-1989 three main main types of epidemic manifestations of this infection on the territory of the USSR were determined with due attention to the complex of data, characterizing the intensity and types of the epidemic process, the danger of the outbreak and spread of cholera. This made it possible to differentiate and decrease the complex of prophylactic measures, depending on the type of the territory.
Removal of nitrosamines from waste water by potassium ferrate oxidation.	Potassium ferrate (K2FeO4) is useful in the advanced treatment of waste water. Additional evidence of this capability is presented in this study. Potassium ferrate is a very strong oxidant and is highly soluble in water. The nitrosamine studied in this work was toxic and was a potent pancreatic tumorigen in laboratory animals. Nitrosamines, which are potent carcinogens, are widespread throughout the environment and can be eliminated from waste water effluent by the action of potassium ferrate. Potassium ferrate and the nitrosamine was placed in aqueous solution and allowed to react to completion. Analysis by photospectroscopy revealed that the nitrosamine was completely degraded. This result suggests that potassium ferrate is useful for decontamination of some waste water collections.
Metabolism of acrylonitrile by Klebsiella pneumoniae.	A gram-negative rod-shaped bacterium capable of utilizing acrylonitrile as the sole source of nitrogen was isolated from industrial sewage and identified as Klebsiella pneumoniae. The isolate was capable of utilizing aliphatic nitriles containing 1 to 5 carbon atoms or benzonitrile as the sole source of nitrogen and either acetamide or propionamide as the sole source of both carbon and nitrogen. Gas chromatographic and mass spectral analyses of culture filtrates indicated that K. pneumoniae was capable of hydrolyzing 6.15 mmol of acrylonitrile to 5.15 mmol of acrylamide within 24 h. The acrylamide was hydrolyzed to 1.0 mmol of acrylic acid within 72 h. Another metabolite of acrylonitrile metabolism was ammonia, which reached a maximum concentration of 3.69 mM within 48 h. Nitrile hydratase and amidase, the two hydrolytic enzymes responsible for the sequential metabolism of nitrile compounds, were induced by acrylonitrile. The optimum temperature for nitrile hydratase activity was 55 degrees C and that for amidase was 40 degrees C; both enzymes had pH optima of 8.0.
Survival capacity of genetically altered Escherichia coli strains. 2. Survival of pure cultures in different water and soil matrices]	The survival of two genetically engineered E. coli strains (L+, CAG+) compared to that of 4 control strains (N0, K12, L-, CAG-), was investigated in drinking water, surface water, sewage and soil under different conditions. Both genetically manipulated strains are able to produce Prourokinase, an anticoagulant. It was found, that all strains died off inspite of high inoculated bacterial densities. In drinking water, no bacteria could be recultivated immediately following inoculation. Upon inoculation in surface water, the genetically manipulated strains L+ and CAG+ were more sensitive than the other strains. The same was found for sewage under aerobic conditions, whereby, the control strains N0 and K12 as well as the wild-strains of the genetically manipulated organisms, L- and CAG- survived the whole experimental period and kept their numbers at a level between 100 and 1000 CFU/ml. Under anaerobic conditions, a die-off of all tested strains was similarly registered with time. The influence of the autochthonous microflora of sewage water could be documented in that, under these conditions, all test strains survived the whole experimental period of 31 days with the exception of the genetically manipulated strain CAG+. In soil experiments, it was found that the humus-rich garden soil was more effective in eliminating the E. coli strains than sand. The antagonistic effect of the autochthonous soil microflora was only clearly seen in experiments with garden soil. However, these results did not meet the expectations for the two CAG strains, for which a longer survival period had been previously established for in nutrient rich soil. In contrast to the E. coli control strains N0 and K12, the two L strains and the CAG+ strain survived the whole test period of 36 days. It can be concluded that under these simulated environmental conditions, all tested strains of E. coli die off more or less in a short period of time following inoculation with the autochthonous microflora of environmental samples.
Characterization of thermophilic campylobacters originated from a high-rate sewage treatment plant.	Campylobacter strains isolated during a one-year study from a municipal waste water treatment plant have been characterized. The study shows a considerable release of Campylobacter strains into the receiving linked river system. Campylobacters isolated here, are very similar to isolates originating from enteritic cases. In contrast to other reports we conclude that the strains released from the sewage treatment plant into the environment represent a potential risk for public health.
Enumeration of Aeromonas hydrophila from domestic wastewater treatment plants and surface waters.	Influents, effluents and sludges from sewage purification plants and surface water samples were examined quantitatively for Aeromonas hydrophila on the mA medium of Rippey and Cabelli. Between 10(4) and 10(6)/ml A. hydrophila were found in domestic wastewaters. On the average 99.975% were removed by activated sludge and 98.25% by trickling filters. Only 20.9% of A. hydrophila end up in the primary sludge, which contained up to 10(7)/g dry sludge. After 3 months, anaerobically (methane) fermented and partially dried sludge from trickling filters contained more than 10(6) A. hydrophila/g dry sludge. Surface water receiving raw sewage contained several hundreds of A. hydrophila/ml, comparable with the numbers found in effluent waters, while surface receiving no municipal wastewater and destined for the preparation of drinking water contained only small and negligible numbers. It was concluded that A. hydrophila was omnipresent in surface water.
Development of a novel fouling suppression system in membrane bioreactors using an intermittent electric field.	A novel membrane bioreactor system that uses an intermittent electric field was successfully developed to suppress membrane fouling, caused mainly by activated sludge. We found that the surface of the activated sludge is negatively charged, and propose the utilization of an electric repulsive force to move the sludge away from the membrane by applying an electric field only when the permeate flux has drastically declined because of membrane fouling. The experimental results showed that a field of 6 V cm(-1), switched on and off every 90 s, significantly improved the removal of the activated sludge from the membrane and accordingly improved the average permeate flux.
Comparison of six sewage effluents treated with different treatment technologies--population level responses in the harpacticoid copepod Nitocra spinipes.	Since conventional treatment technologies may fail in removing many micro-pollutants, there is currently a focus on the potential of additional treatment technologies for improved sewage treatment. The aim of the present study was to evaluate six different effluents from Henriksdal Sewage Treatment Plant in Stockholm, Sweden. The effluents were; conventionally treated effluent (chemical phosphorous removal in combination with an activated sludge process, including biological nitrogen removal and a sand filter), with additional treatments individually added to the conventional treatment; active carbon filtration, ozonation at 5 mg l(-1), ozonation at 15 mg l(-1), ozonation at 5 mg l(-1)+moving bed biofilm reactor and irradiation with ultraviolet radiation+hydrogen peroxide. The evaluation was done by characterizing and comparing the effluents using a Lefkovitch matrix model based on a life cycle test with the harpacticoid copepod Nitocra spinipes, combined with analysis of juvenile development and survival over time. The conventionally treated effluent resulted in the most negative effects, leading to the conclusion that all additional treatments in the present study created effluents with less negative impacts on the copepod populations. The ozone treatments with the low dose treatment in particular, resulted in the overall least negative effects. Moving bed biofilm reactor combined with ozone did not improve the quality of the effluent in the sense that slightly more negative effects on the population abundance were seen for this treatment technology compared to ozonation alone. The active carbon treatment had more negative effects than the ozone treatments, most of which could possibly be explained by removal of essential metal ions. The effluent which was treated with ultraviolet radiation+hydrogen peroxide resulted in few developmental and survival effects over time, but still showed negative effects on the population level. Matrix population modeling proved a useful tool for biologically characterizing and comparing the effluents. Basing the assessment either on the individual level data (development and survival over time or total reproductive output) or the population level data (lambda values and projected population abundances) would not have resulted in the same conclusions as combining both analyses. The juvenile development and survival over time allowed for closer monitoring of the important molting process, whereas the population modeling provided an integrated measure of potential effects at the population level. If the dilution of the effluent in the recipient is considered, the biological effects recorded in the present study were not of substantial significance for the copepod populations, regardless of treatment technology.
Effects of thermally pretreated temperature on bio-hydrogen production from sewage sludge.	Hydrogen can be obtained by anaerobic fermentation of sewage sludge. Therefore, in this paper the effects of thermally pretreated temperatures on hydrogen production from sewage sludge were investigated under different pre-treatment conditions. In the thermal pretreatment, some microbial matters of sludge were converted into soluble matters from insoluble ones. As a result, the suspended solid (SS) and volatile suspended solid (VSS) of sludge decreased and the concentration of soluble COD (SCOD) increased, including soluble carbohydrates and proteins. The experimental results showed that all of those pretreated sludge could produce hydrogen by anaerobic fermentation and the hydrogen yields under the temperatures of 121 degrees C and 50 degrees C were 12.23 ml/g VS (most) and 1.17 ml/g VS (least), respectively. It illuminated that the hydrogen yield of sludge was affected by the thermally pretreated temperatures. Additionally, the endurance of high hydrogen yield depended on the translation of microbial matters and inhibition of methanogens in the sludge. The temperatures of 100 degrees C and 121 degrees C (treated time, 30 min) could kill or inhibit completely the methanogens while the others could not. To produce hydrogen and save energy, 100 degrees C was chosen as the optimal temperature for thermal pretrcatment. The composition changes in liquid phase in the fermentation process were also discussed. The SCOD of sludge increased, which was affected by the pretreatment temperature. The production of volatile fatty acids in the anaerobic fermentation increased with the pretreatment temperature.
Simultaneous phosphorus and nitrogen removal in a continuous-flow two-sludge system.	The ability of simultaneous biological phosphorus and nitrogen removal was investigated in a lab-scale continuous-flow two-sludge system. Alternating anaerobic and anoxic conditions were combined with contact oxidation stage for treating raw municipal wastewater. Long-term experiments showed that the contradiction of competing for the organic substrate between denitrifying bacteria and PAOs (phosphorus accumulating organisms) in traditional phosphorus and nitrogen removal system has been resolved. The system can adapt to low influent COD/TN ratio (C/N). Furthermore the SRT (sludge retention time) of nitrifying sludge and denitrifying phosphorus removal sludge can be controlled at optimal conditions respectively. The removal efficiency of COD, TP, TN, and NH4-N was 81.78%, 92.51%,75.75%, and 84.47% respectively. It was also found that the appropriate influent C/N should be controlled at the range of 3.8-6, while the optimal C/N to the system ranged between 4-5, and the BFR (bypass sludge flow rate) should be controlled at 0.35 around.
Key variables analysis of a novel continuous biodrying process for drying mixed sludge.	A novel continuous biodrying process has been developed whose goal is to increase the dry solids content of the sludge to economic levels rendering it suitable for a safe and economic combustion operation in a biomass boiler. The sludge drying rates are enhanced by the metabolic bioheat produced in the matrix of mixed sludge. The goal of this study was to systematically analyze the continuous biodrying reactor. By performing a variable analysis, it was found that the outlet relative humidity profile was the key variable in the biodrying reactor. The influence of different outlet relative humidity profiles was then evaluated using biodrying efficiency index. It was found that by maintaining the air outlet relative humidity profile at 85/85/96/96% in the four compartments of the reactor, the highest biodrying efficiency index can be achieved, while economic dry solids level (>45%w/w) are guaranteed.
Sequential anaerobic-aerobic treatment for domestic wastewater - a review.	Introduction, consolidation and even standardization of expensive conventional aerobic systems for domestic wastewater treatment imposed significant financial constraints on the expansion of sanitary services including treatment in developing countries. A viable alternative is the sequential anaerobic-aerobic systems. If compared with the conventional aerobic technologies based on activated sludge processes, lower energy consumption and lower excess sludge production can be achieved with a high-rate anaerobic pre-treatment step. Particularly with concentrated sewage, the energy benefit of applying anaerobic pre-treatment will become very significant. This study aims on putting the effectiveness of sequential systems for treatment of domestic wastewater on view, through displaying results presented in literature on the performance of these systems.
Effects of ions and phosphates on alkaline phosphatase activity in aerobic activated sludge system.	The influence of metal ions, anions, ortho-phosphate, polyphosphate and organic phosphorus on the activity and kinetics of alkaline phosphatase in aerobic activated sludge taken from a local municipal wastewater treatment plant was investigated. Results suggested that there were three impact models of heavy metals on alkaline phosphatase activity (APA) and most inorganic anions were relatively innocuous at concentrations from 0 to 5.0mM. However, phosphorus especially pyrophosphate had an inhibitory effect on APA, since the residual activity of alkaline phosphatase dramatically decreased to 34.8% of the control at the pyrophosphate concentration of 5.0mM. The inhibition of Cu(2+) on alkaline phosphatase was described satisfactorily by an uncompetitive type at low concentrations, but a mixed of noncompetitive-uncompetitive type at high concentrations. The inhibition of ortho-phosphate was found to be of the competitive type. V(max)/K(m) ratio is a good indicator for the catalytic efficiency of alkaline phosphatases in wastewater.
Ecologically engineered system (EES) designed to integrate floating, emergent and submerged macrophytes for the treatment of domestic sewage and acid rich fermented-distillery wastewater: Evaluation of long term performance.	An ecologically engineered system (EES) was designed to mimic the natural cleansing functions of wetlands to bring about wastewater treatment. EES consisted of three tanks containing diverse biota viz., aquatic macrophytes, submerged plants, emergent plants and filter feeders connected in series. The designed system was evaluated for 216days by operating in continuous mode (20l/day) to treat both sewage (DS) and fermented-distillery wastewater (FDW, from hydrogen producing bioreactor). Floating macrophyte system (Tank 1) was more effective in removing COD and nitrates. Submerged and emergent integrated macrophyte system (Tank 2) showed an effective removal of volatile fatty acids (VFAs) along with COD. Filter-feeding system (Tank 3) visualized the removal of COD, VFA, turbidity and color. On the whole the system can treat effectively DS (COD, 68.06%; nitrate, 22.41%; turbidity, 59.81%) and FDW (COD, 72.92%; nitrate, 23.15%; color, 46.0%). The designed EES can be considered as an economical approach for the treatment of both sewage and fermented wastewaters.
Polyphasic bacterial community analysis of an aerobic activated sludge removing phenols and thiocyanate from coke plant effluent.	Biological purification processes are effective tools in the treatment of hazardous wastes such as toxic compounds produced in coal coking. In this study, the microbial community of a lab-scale activated sludge system treating coking effluent was assessed by cultivation-based (strain isolation and identification, biodegradation tests) and culture-independent techniques (sequence-aided T-RFLP, taxon-specific PCR). The results of the applied polyphasic approach showed a simple microbial community dominated by easily culturable heterotrophic bacteria. Comamonas badia was identified as the key microbe of the system, since it was the predominant member of the bacterial community, and its phenol degradation capacity was also proved. Metabolism of phenol, even at elevated concentrations (up to 1500mg/L), was also presented for many other dominant (Pseudomonas, Rhodanobacter, Oligella) and minor (Alcaligenes, Castellaniella, Microbacterium) groups, while some activated sludge bacteria (Sphingomonas, Rhodopseudomonas) did not tolerate it even in lower concentrations (250mg/L). In some cases, closely related strains showed different tolerance and degradation properties. Members of the genus Thiobacillus were detected in the activated sludge, and were supposedly responsible for the intensive thiocyanate biodegradation observed in the system. Additionally, some identified bacteria (e.g. C. badia and the Ottowia-related strains) might also have had a significant impact on the structure of the activated sludge due to their floc-forming abilities.
Effects of waste activated sludge and surfactant addition on primary sludge hydrolysis and short-chain fatty acids accumulation.	This paper focused on the effects of waste activated sludge (WAS) and surfactant sodium dodecylbenzene sulfonate (SDBS) addition on primary sludge (PS) hydrolysis and short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) accumulation in fermentation. The results showed that sludge hydrolysis, SCFA accumulation, NH(4)(+)-N and PO(4)(3-)-P release, and volatile suspended solids (VSS) reduction were increased by WAS addition to PS, which were further increased by the addition of SDBS to the mixture of PS and WAS. Acetic, propionic and valeric acids were the top three SCFA in all experiments. Also, the fermentation liquids of PS, PS+WAS, and PS+WAS+SDBS were added, respectively, to municipal wastewater to examine their effects on biological municipal wastewater treatment, and the enhancement of both wastewater nitrogen and phosphorus removals was observed compared with no fermentation liquid addition.
Freezing/thawing effects on anaerobic digestion of mixed sewage sludge.	This study examined the effects of freezing/thawing disintegration on the characteristics of mixed (primary and waste) sewage sludge from municipal wastewater treatment plants. It also assessed the effects of freezing/thawing on anaerobic digestion, and its consequences for biogas production and digester supernatant quality. Freezing/thawing caused a decrease of more than 10% in the total chemical oxygen demand (COD), total nitrogen (TN), volatile solids (VS) and total solids (TS). A simultaneous doubling of the soluble COD and volatile fatty acids (VFA) occurred. Release of nitrogen and phosphorus compounds was also found. The biogas yield obtained from frozen/thawed sludge was 1.31 m(3) kg(-1) of removed VS; this exceeded approximately 1.5 times the value for the raw sludge. On the basis of the global mass balance it was indicated that freezing/thawing of the mixed sewage sludge followed by anaerobic digestion could be considered as a "double-phase digestion" rather than a pre-treatment method.
Effects of EDTA on phytoextraction of heavy metals (Zn, Mn and Pb) from sludge-amended soil with Brassica napus.	Sludge application is a reliable practice to ameliorate soil fertility. However, repetitive sludge addition represents a potential soil contamination source with heavy metals, which must be extracted. The aim of this study was to evaluate the capacity of Brassica napus to remove metals from soils amended with sludge, and to study the effect of EDTA on this process. Seedlings were cultivated in presence of sludge combined or not with EDTA. Results showed that sludge ameliorate significantly biomass production. This effect was accompanied with an increase in Pb, Zn and Mn shoot concentrations. EDTA application does not affect significantly plant growth. However, this chelator enhances shoot metals accumulation. It's therefore concluded that sludge has a beneficial effect on soil fertility, B. napus can be used for the decontamination of affected soils and that the EDTA addition increases the ability of B. napus to accumulate heavy metals.
Triacetonamine formation in a bio-oil from fast pyrolysis of sewage sludge using acetone as the absorption solvent.	A sewage sludge sample was pyrolyzed in a drop tube furnace at 500 degrees C and sweeping gas flow rate of 300cm(3)/min. Triacetonamine (TAA) was detected with GC/MS as major component in the resulting bio-oil using acetone as the absorption solvent and proven to be a product from the reaction of NH(3) in the bio-oil with the absorption solvent acetone. TAA yield increased with storage time and reached a level about 28.4% (% sludge fed, daf) after 175h. Since the reaction of pure NH(3) with acetone does not proceed, some species in the bio-oil must catalyze the reaction of NH(3) with acetone. TAA was isolated in a high yield (27.9%, daf) and high purity (80.4%) by column chromatography with different solvents, including mixed solvents, as eluants. The study revealed the possibility of sewage sludge as potential resource of TAA.
Nitrous oxide emission from nitrifying activated sludge dependent on denitrification by ammonia-oxidizing bacteria.	Nitrous oxide (N(2)O) is emitted during the aerated nitrification process of wastewater treatment, but its mechanism is not understood. In this study, we employed a model system to clarify the mechanism of N(2)O emission, utilizing the activated sludge derived from a piggery effluent. Aerated incubation of the sludge with ammonium (NH(4)(+)) or hydroxylamine (NH(2)OH) resulted in the emission of a significant amount of N(2)O. The emission stopped when the nitrification substrate (NH(4)(+) or NH(2)OH) was exhausted. When NH(4)(+) was replaced with nitrate (NO(3)(-)) and nitrite (NO(2)(-)), no N(2)O was emitted. This result suggests that the N(2)O emission under nitrifying conditions did not depend on the oxidation of NO(2)(-) by nitrite-oxidizing bacteria (NOB) or denitrification by heterotrophic denitrifiers but depended on the oxidation of NH(4)(+) by ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB). When NO(2)(-), the product of nitrification by AOB, was added to the NH(4)(+)-oxidizing system, N(2)O emission was enormously enhanced, suggesting that N(2)O was formed via denitrification. Diethyldithiocarbamate (DCD), an inhibitor of copper-containing nitrite reductase (NirK), strongly blocked N(2)O emission from NH(2)OH. Furthermore, the expression of the gene (nirK) encoding NirK of AOB was detected in the sludge exposed to the nitrifying conditions. The results showed that N(2)O emission during the nitrification process depends on denitrification by AOB that reside in the activated sludge. This study provides direct evidence for the cause of N(2)O emission from activated sludge (non-pure culture).
Morphological deformities in Chironomus spp. (Diptera: Chironomidae) larvae as a tool for impact assessment of anthropogenic and environmental stresses on three rivers in the Juru river system, Penang, Malaysia.	Morphological deformities in parts of the head capsule of Chironomus spp. larvae inhabiting three polluted rivers (Permatang Rawa [PRR], Pasir [PR], and Kilang Ubi [KUR]) in the Juru River Basin, northeastern peninsular Malaysia, were studied. Samples of the fourth-instar larvae at one location in each river were collected monthly from November 2007 to March 2008 and examined for deformities of the mentum, antenna, mandible, and epipharyngis. At each sample location, in situ measurements of water depth, river width, water pH, dissolved oxygen, and water temperature were made. Samples of river water and benthic sediments were also collected monthly from each larval sample location in each river and taken to the laboratory for appropriate analysis. Total suspended solids (TSSs), ammonium-N, nitrate-N, phosphate-P, chloride, sulfate, and aluminum content in water were analyzed. Total organic matter and nonresidual metals in the sediment samples were also analyzed. Among the three rivers, the highest mean deformity (47.17%) was recorded in larvae collected from KUR that received industrial discharges from surrounding garment and rubber factories, followed by PRR (33.71%) receiving primarily residues of fertilizers and pesticides from adjacent rice fields, and PR (30.34%) contaminated primarily by anthropogenic wastes from the surrounding residential areas. Among the various head capsule structures, deformity of the mentum was strongly reflective of environmental stress and amounted to 27.9, 20.87, and 30.19% in the PRR, PR, and KUR, respectively. Calculated Lenat's toxic score index satisfactorily explained the influence of prevailing environmental variables on the severity of mentum deformities. Redundancy analysis and forward selection selected TSSs, sediment Zn, Mn, Cu, and Ni, and water pH, dissolved oxygen, water temperature, total organic matter, nitrate-N, chloride, phosphate-P, ammonium-N, sulfate, and aluminum as parameters that significantly affected some proportion of deformities. The total deformities correlated closely with deformities of mentum but only weakly with deformities in other parts of head. The total deformity incidence was strongly correlated with high contents of sediment Mn and Ni. The mentum and epipharyngis deformities incidence was highly correlated with an increase of TSSs, total aluminum, and ammonium-N and a decrease in pH and dissolved oxygen.
Biosorption of chromium from aqueous solution and electroplating wastewater using mixture of Candida lipolytica and dewatered sewage sludge.	In this study, the objective was to investigate Cr removal from aqueous solutions, as well as Cr, Cu, Ni and Zn from electroplating wastewaters by the mixture of Candida lipolytica and sewage sludge. The bioreduction ratios of Cr(VI) and the removal ratios of total Cr showed that initial pH, biosorbent dosage and contact time were the important parameters for Cr biosorption. The range of optimal pH for the mixture (1-5) was wider than C. lipolytica (1-4) and sewage sludge (2-4), respectively. Biosorption and bioreduction potentials of living C. lipolytica were better than those of cell wall and cytoplasm. Bonded hydroxyl group, CH(2) asymmetric stretch, amide I, amide II, amide III, secondary amide, pyridine(I)beta(C-H) and pyridine(II)beta(C-H) were detected in the biosorbent and they were the functional groups for binding Cr. The effect of Cu and Zn in combination was significant on the removal of total Cr and the bioreduction of Cr(VI).
Modelling waste stabilisation ponds with an extended version of ASM3.	In this paper an extended version of IWA's Activated Sludge Model No 3 (ASM3) was developed to simulate processes in waste stabilisation ponds (WSP). The model modifications included the integration of algae biomass and gas transfer processes for oxygen, carbon dioxide and ammonia depending on wind velocity and a simple ionic equilibrium. The model was applied to a pilot-scale WSP system operated in the city of Florianpolis (Brazil). The system was used to treat leachate from a municipal waste landfill. Mean influent concentrations to the facultative pond of 1,456 g(COD)/m(3) and 505 g(NH4-N)/m(3) were measured. Experimental results indicated an ammonia nitrogen removal of 89.5% with negligible rates of nitrification but intensive ammonia stripping to the atmosphere. Measured data was used in the simulations to consider the impact of wind velocity on oxygen input of 11.1 to 14.4 g(O2)/(m(2) d) and sun radiation on photosynthesis. Good results for pH and ammonia removal were achieved with mean stripping rates of 18.2 and 4.5 g(N)/(m(2) d) for the facultative and maturation pond respectively. Based on measured chlorophyll a concentrations and depending on light intensity and TSS concentration it was possible to model algae concentrations.
Effect of anoxic decay process on simultaneous nitrification denitrification in a membrane bioreactor operated without an anoxic tank.	This study was focused on evaluating the role and the effect of anoxic decay on the extent of simultaneous nitrification-denitrification (SNdN) process sustained in a single membrane bioreactor. The membrane bioreactor was fed with relatively strong domestic sewage and operated at steady state at a sludge age of 36 days at a corresponding suspended solids level maintained in the range of 17,500-21,000 mg/L. The SNdN could be sustained due to diffusion limitation of oxygen into the flocs. The evaluation identified an MLSS threshold level of around 17,000-18,000 mg/L below which nitrogen removal was essentially controlled by denitrification and above, the rate limiting mechanism shifted to nitrification maintaining total nitrogen removal efficiency of 85-95% for a typical domestic sewage. The contribution of anoxic decay process to the overall denitrification potential was evaluated as 60%, substantially higher than the remaining 40% associated with the anoxic growth during the SNdN process.
Greenhouse gas emissions from surface flow and subsurface flow constructed wetlands treating dairy wastewater.	Agricultural wastewater treatment is important for protecting water quality in rural ecosystems, and constructed wetlands are an effective treatment option. During treatment, however, some C and N are converted to CH(4), N(2)O, respectively, which are potent greenhouse gases (GHGs). The objective of this study was to assess CH(4), N(2)O, and CO(2) emissions from surface flow (SF) and subsurface flow (SSF) constructed wetlands. Six constructed wetlands (three SF and three SSF; 6.6 m(2) each) were loaded with dairy wastewater in Truro, Nova Scotia, Canada. From August 2005 through September 2006, GHG fluxes were measured continuously using transparent steady-state chambers that encompassed the entire wetlands. Flux densities of all gases were significantly (p < 0.01) different between SF and SSF wetlands changed significantly with time. Overall, SF wetlands had significantly (p < 0.01) higher emissions of CH(4) N(2)O than SSF wetlands and therefore had 180% higher total GHG emissions. The ratio of N(2)O to CH(4) emissions (CO(2)-equivalent) was nearly 1:1 in both wetland types. Emissions of CH(4)-C as a percentage of C removal varied seasonally from 0.2 to 27% were 2 to 3x higher in SF than SSF wetlands. The ratio of N(2)O-N emitted to N removed was between 0.1 and 1.6%, and the difference between wetland types was inconsistent. Thus, N(2)O emissions had a similar contribution to N removal in both wetland types, but SSF wetlands emitted less CH(4) while removing more C from the wastewater than SF wetlands.
Phytoavailability of cadmium in long-term biosolids-amended soils.	Agronomic use of biosolids has raised concern that plant availability of biosolids-Cd will increase with time after cessation of biosolids application. It has been demonstrated that chemical extractability of Cd is persistently decreased in biosolids-amended soils. This study was conducted to determine if Cd phytoavailability in long-term biosolids-amended soils was also persistently decreased. Paired control and biosolids-amended soils were collected from three experimental sites where large cumulative rates of biosolids were applied about 20 yr ago. The pH of all soils [in 0.01 mol L(-1) Ca(NO(3))(2)] was adjusted to 6.5 +/- 0.2. Increasing rates of Cd-nitrate (from 0 to 10.0 mg Cd kg(-1) soil) enriched in (111)Cd stable isotope were added to all soils, and Romaine lettuce (Lactuca sativa L. var. longifolia Lam.) was grown in pots to bioassay phytoavailable Cd. After harvest, Cd concentrations in shoots and labile pool of Cd (Cd(L)) in soils were determined. The relationship between added salt-Cd and Cd concentrations in lettuce shoots was linear for all soils tested. Ratios of (shoot Cd):(soil Cd) slopes were highest in the control soils. Biosolids amendment decreased (shoot Cd):(soil Cd) slopes to varied extent depending on biosolids source, properties, and application rate. The decrease in slope in comparison to the control was an indication of the lower phytoavailability of Cd in biosolids-amended soils. A significant negative correlation existed between Cd uptake slopes and soil organic matter, free and amorphous Fe and Al oxides, Bray-P, and soil and plant Zn. Biosolids-Cd was highly labile (%L 80-95) except for Fulton County soil (%L = 61).
Effect of turfgrass establishment practices and composted biosolids on water quality.	Land application of composted municipal biosolids (CMB) enhances soil physical properties and turf establishment. Yet large, volume-based rates of CMB can increase nonpoint source losses of sediment and nutrients from urban soils to surface waters. The objectives were (i) to compare runoff losses of sediment, N, P, and organic C among contrasting establishment treatments for bermudagrass [Cynodon dactylon (L.) Pers. x C. transvaalensis Burtt-Davy, var. Tifway] and (ii) to evaluate relationships between runoff and soil measurements of N, P, and organic C. Three replications of seven establishment treatments were installed on an excavated slope (8.5%) under field conditions. Five treatments comprised sod transplanted from Tifway bermudagrass grown with and without CMB on soil with and without incorporation of CMB. Two other treatments were composed of Tifway sprigged in soil with and without CMB. Runoff from seven natural rain events was channeled into collection tanks for sampling and analysis. Runoff concentrations and mass loss of dissolved P and organic C forms were greater for CMB-amended sod than for sprigs planted in soil with or without CMB or treatments comprising sod established without CMB. In addition, a linear relationship (R(2) = 0.87) was observed between water extractable soil P of sodded and sprigged treatments and concentrations and mass losses of dissolved P in runoff. Transplanted sod reduced sediment loss compared with sprigged treatments and incorporation of CMB reduced sediment loss from sprigged treatments. Incorporation of CMB within soil on which sod grown without CMB was transplanted proved the best option for achieving benefits of CMB while reducing nutrient runoff loss compared to sod transplanted from Tifway grown with CMB.
A systematic approach for model verification: application on seven published activated sludge models.	The quality of simulation results can be significantly affected by errors in the published model (typing, inconsistencies, gaps or conceptual errors) and/or in the underlying numerical model description. Seven of the most commonly used activated sludge models have been investigated to point out the typing errors, inconsistencies and gaps in the model publications: ASM1; ASM2d; ASM3; ASM3 + Bio-P; ASM2d + TUD; New General; UCTPHO+. A systematic approach to verify models by tracking typing errors and inconsistencies in model development and software implementation is proposed. Then, stoichiometry and kinetic rate expressions are checked for each model and the errors found are reported in detail. An attached spreadsheet (see http://www.iwaponline.com/wst/06104/0898.pdf) provides corrected matrices with the calculations of all stoichiometric coefficients for the discussed biokinetic models and gives an example of proper continuity checks.
New framework for standardized notation in wastewater treatment modelling.	Many unit process models are available in the field of wastewater treatment. All of these models use their own notation, causing problems for documentation, implementation and connection of different models (using different sets of state variables). The main goal of this paper is to propose a new notational framework which allows unique and systematic naming of state variables and parameters of biokinetic models in the wastewater treatment field. The symbols are based on one main letter that gives a general description of the state variable or parameter and several subscript levels that provide greater specification. Only those levels that make the name unique within the model context are needed in creating the symbol. The paper describes specific problems encountered with the currently used notation, presents the proposed framework and provides additional practical examples. The overall result is a framework that can be used in whole plant modelling, which consists of different fields such as activated sludge, anaerobic digestion, sidestream treatment, membrane bioreactors, metabolic approaches, fate of micropollutants and biofilm processes. The main objective of this consensus building paper is to establish a consistent set of rules that can be applied to existing and most importantly, future models. Applying the proposed notation should make it easier for everyone active in the wastewater treatment field to read, write and review documents describing modelling projects.
Antiviral pandemic risk assessment for urban receiving waters.	An 80% metabolic conversion of the Tamiflu pro-drug (oseltamivir phosphate, OP) to its metabolite oseltamivir carboxylate (OC) and a high excretion rate combined with poor removal at sewage treatment works (STWs) means that potentially high STW OC emissions may occur in receiving waters. A risk assessment approach undertaken within the River Lee catchment in North East London indicates that predicted environmental concentrations for surface waters (PEC(sw)) are likely to be in the general range of 40-80 microg L(-1) during a pandemic sitaution within urban catchments having low dilution capacities. This implies low risk exposure levels which confirms previous studies, but there are considerable uncertainties associated with the methodology as well as risks that might result from persistent, long term chronic exposure to low-level water and sediment concentrations which might be mobilised under subsequent extreme flow conditions.
Comparison between hybrid moving bed biofilm reactor and activated sludge system: a pilot plant experiment.	The paper presents the comparison between the traditional activated sludge system (AS) and a hybrid moving bed biofilm reactor (HMBBR). In particular, an experimental campaign has been carried out at the WWTP in Palermo (Italy), on a pilot plant consisting of two pre-anoxic schemes. The aerated tank of the HMBBR line was filled with suspended carriers (AnoxKaldnes K1), with a 30% filling ratio. The hydraulic load of the HMBBR line was increased up to two times the AS one. Further, in order to distinguish the additional contribution of the attached biomass for the HMBBR system, in the two lines the Mixed Liquor Suspended Solids (MLSS) was maintained as equal as possible. The monitoring period lasted three months during which several parameters were monitored. The obtained results showed a good treatment ability of the HMBBR system, referring to the organic matter removal as well as to the ammonium removal. In particular, in spite of the increase of the hydraulic load for the HMBBR line, the two systems showed a similar performance in terms of both organic and nitrogen removal. The results demonstrate the higher treatment capacity of the HMBBR addressing such system as an effective technology for the upgrading of overloaded wastewater treatment plants.
Biological denitrification of brines from membrane treatment processes using an upflow sludge blanket (USB) reactor.	This paper investigates denitrification of brines originating from membrane treatment of groundwater in an upflow sludge blanket (USB) reactor, a biofilm reactor without carrier. A simulated brine wastewater was prepared from tap water and contained a nitrate concentration of 125 mg/l as N and a total salt concentration of about 1%. In order to select for a suitable energy source for denitrification, two electron donors were compared: one promoting precipitation of calcium compounds (ethanol), while the other (acetic acid), no precipitation was expected. After extended operation to reach steady state, the sludge from the two reactors showed very different mineral contents. The VSS/TSS ratio in the ethanol fed reactor was 0.2, i.e., 80% mineral content, while the VSS/TSS ratio in the acetic acid fed reactor was 0.9, i.e., 10% mineral content. In spite of the low mineral content, the sludge from the acetic acid fed reactor showed remarkably excellent granulation and settling characteristics. Although the denitrification performance of the acetic acid fed reactor was similar to that of the ethanol fed reactor, there was a huge difference in the sludge production due to mineral precipitation, with the corresponding negative aspects including increased costs of sludge treatment and disposal and moreover, instability and difficulties in reactor operation (channeling). These arguments make acetic acid a much more suitable candidate for brine denitrification, despite previous findings observed in groundwater denitrification regarding the essential role of a relatively high sludge mineral fraction for stable and effective USB reactor operation. Based on a comparison between two denitrification reactors with and without salt addition and using acetic acid as the electron donor, it was concluded that the reason for the excellent sludge settling characteristics found in the acetic acid fed reactor is the positive effects of higher salinity on granular sludge formation.
Sludge accumulation in an anaerobic pond and viability of helminth eggs: a case study in Burkina Faso.	Accumulation rates and pathogen concentrations in primary stabilization pond sludges in developing countries are important parameters for adequate sludge management and the safeguarding of public health with sludge reuse in agriculture. An anaerobic pond has been investigated for sludge accumulation rates and helminth egg viability after four years of operation in Burkina Faso. The rate of sludge accumulation was measured at 0.037 m(3)/capita-year or 2.26 kg dry weight/capita-year. An equation describing vertical distribution of total solids in the accumulated sludge was found to be adequately represented by a regression equation. Influent helminth egg concentrations were reduced on average by 90% in the anaerobic pond effluent. Ascaris lumbricoides and Ancylostoma sp. were the most common eggs present in the sludge after four years of operation. The average concentration of helminth eggs in pond sludge was 536 eggs/g TS, and the percentages of viability ranged from 10.8% (47 viable eggs/g TS) to 57.2 (1,772 viable eggs/g TS, with an average rate of 36% (336 viable eggs/g TS). From a sludge depth and section study, egg viability was found to be randomly distributed in the sludge layer.
Assessment of classical surface organic loading design equations based on the actual performance of primary and secondary facultative ponds.	This article presents results from a performance evaluation of 73 full-scale primary facultative ponds and 37 secondary facultative ponds in Brazil. The data were used to test the applicability of some classical design equations for recommended surface BOD loading rates. The empirical equations proposed by Mara in 1976 and 1987 and the equation developed by McGarry and Pescod in 1970 were evaluated. The loading and hydraulic operating conditions were also evaluated to support the analysis of the influence of the parameters surface BOD loading (L(s)) and hydraulic retention time (HRT) on the performance of the ponds. The results showed that the design equations proposed by Mara showed good applicability for primary facultative ponds, representing good indicators of the limit value of loading rates to be applied on the units. But the secondary facultative ponds showed good and poor performances for all loading rates and the best ponds, in general, were not those which followed the design equations recommendation. Finally, the influence of the actual loading conditions on the ponds performance was very small and scattered, indicating that other unquantified design and operational aspects were playing an important role.
Nitrogen removal during summer and winter in a primary facultative waste stabilization pond: preliminary findings from (15)N-labelled ammonium tracking techniques.	Nitrogen removal mechanisms and pathways within WSP have been the focus of much research over the last 30 years. Debates and theories postulated continue to refine our knowledge regarding the cycling and removal pathways for this important nutrient, but a succinct answer has yet to be provided for holistic nitrogen removal. In this study, two experimental runs using labelled (15)N as a stable isotope tracking technique were conducted on a pilot-scale primary facultative WSP in the UK; one in the summer of 2006, and the other in the winter of 2007. An ammonium chloride ((15)NH(4)Cl) spike was prepared as the slug for each experimental run, which also contained rhodamine WT to act as a dye tracer enabling the hydraulic characteristics of the pond to be mapped. Initial results from the study are reported here, and findings are compared and contrasted. Preliminary findings reveal that a greater proportion of (15)N is incorporated into the algal biomass by assimilation and subsequent release as soluble organic nitrogen in summer than in winter. (15)N ammonium passes out of the system much sooner and in a much higher proportion in the winter than in summer.
Quantitative and qualitative effects of bioaugmentation on ammonia oxidisers at a two-step WWTP.	Large waste water treatment plants (WWTP) often operate nitrification in two different process environments: the cold-dilute sewage is treated in the mainstream nitrification/denitrification system, while the high strength ammonia liquors from sludge dewatering are treated in a separate high temperature reactor (SBR). This study investigates transfer from nitrifier biomass into a two-stage WWTP, commonly referred to as bioaugmentation. Besides the quantitation of ammonia oxidising bacteria (AOB), community differences were analysed with two techniques, denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and real-time PCR melt curve analysis. It was shown that, without bioaugmentation, two distinct AOB communities establish in the mainstream and in the SBR, respectively. A gradual shift of the two AOB communities with increasing pump rates between the systems could be demonstrated. These molecular findings support process engineering experience, that cycling of waste activated sludge improves the ability of AOB to adapt to different process environments.
Nitrogen removal in maturation waste stabilisation ponds via biological uptake and sedimentation of dead biomass.	In this work a set of experiments was undertaken in a pilot-scale WSP system to determine the importance of organic nitrogen sedimentation on ammonium and total nitrogen removals in maturation ponds and its seasonal variation under British weather conditions, from September 2004 to May 2007. The nitrogen content in collected sediment samples varied from 4.17% to 6.78% (dry weight) and calculated nitrogen sedimentation rates ranged from 273 to 2868 g N/ha d. High ammonium removals were observed together with high concentrations of chlorophyll-a in the pond effluent. Moreover, chlorophyll-a had a very good correlation with the corresponding increment of VSS (algal biomass) and suspended organic nitrogen (biological nitrogen uptake) in the maturation pond effluents. Therefore, when ammonium removal reached its maximum, total nitrogen removal was very poor as most of the ammonia taken up by algae was washed out in the pond effluent in the form of suspended solids. After sedimentation of the dead algal biomass, it was clear that algal-cell nitrogen was recycled from the sludge layer into the pond water column. Recycled nitrogen can either be taken up by algae or washed out in the pond effluent. Biological (mainly algal) uptake of inorganic nitrogen species and further sedimentation of dead biomass (together with its subsequent mineralization) is one of the major mechanisms controlling in-pond nitrogen recycling in maturation WSP, particularly when environmental and operational conditions are favourable for algal growth.
The occurrence and survival of Campylobacter in sewage sludge]	Campylobacter was found only in raw sewage sludge samples of the high-rate municipal sewage treatment plant studied. Campylobacters were isolated from 28.6% of the sewage sludge samples of grit tank and primary settling tank. 40% of the settled activated sludge samples contained Campylobacter. Campylobacter was never found in digested sludge of a mean sludge age of more than 90 days. The survival times of Campylobacter in sewage sludge samples ranged between some hours and 10 days. Therefore a low risk of the spread of Campylobacter in the environment due to agricultural application of digested sewage sludge is assumed.
Environmental aspects of Campylobacter infections.	Epidemiological data indicate high incidence of campylobacteriosis. Improperly prepared poultry-products, unpasteurized milk as well as non-chlorinated drinking water were shown to be the main vehicles of Campylobacter transmission to man. There is a lack of knowledge concerning the role of various environments in transmission of Campylobacter. The review summarizes the present knowledge about occurrence and survival of Campylobacters in various environments (sewage, sludge, surface water, drinking water). In conclusion risk assessment for public health is discussed.
Sludge palm oil as a renewable raw material for biodiesel production by two-step processes.	In this study, biodiesel was produced from sludge palm oil (SPO) using tolune-4-sulfonic monohydrate acid (PTSA) as an acid catalyst in different dosages in the presence of methanol to convert free fatty acid (FFA) to fatty acid methyl ester (FAME), followed by a transesterification process using an alkaline catalyst. In the first step, acid catalyzed esterification reduced the high FFA content of SPO to less than 2% with the different dosages of PTSA. The optimum conditions for pretreatment process by esterification were 0.75% (w/w) dosage of PTSA to SPO, 10:1 M ratio, 60 C temperature, 60 min reaction time and 400 rpm stirrer speed. The highest yield of biodiesel after transesterification and purification processes was 76.62% with 0.07% FFA and 96% ester content. The biodiesel produced was favorable as compared to EN 14214 and ASTM 6751 standard. This study shows a potential exploitation of SPO as a new feedstock for the production of biodiesel.
Potential use of filamentous fungi for wastewater sludge treatment.	Specific filamentous fungi (FF) have been recognized for sludge treatment and possibly these strains can be utilized for simultaneous bioflocculation, solids and pathogens reduction and, removal and degradation of toxic compounds. Based on current research work and findings, this review provides the state-of-art knowledge on the role of FF (or moulds) in sludge treatment. The proposed theories are presented, critically analyzed and future scope for specific research on utilization of FF for treatment of sludge is recommended.
Treatment of industrial effluents by a continuous system: electrocoagulation--activated sludge.	A continuous system electrocoagulation--active sludge was designed and built for the treatment of industrial wastewater. The system included an electrochemical reactor with aluminum electrodes, a clarifier and a biological reactor. The electrochemical reactor was tested under different flowrates (50, 100 and 200 mL/min). In the biological reactor, the performance of different cultures of active sludge was assessed: coliform bacterial, ciliate and flagellate protozoa and aquatic fungus. Overall treatment efficiencies of color, turbidity and COD removal were 94%, 92% and 80%, respectively, under optimal conditions of 50 mL/min flowrate and using ciliate and flagellate protozoa. It was concluded that the system was efficient for the treatment of industrial wastewater.
Performance evaluation of oxygen, air and nitrate for the microaerobic removal of hydrogen sulphide in biogas from sludge digestion.	The removal performance of hydrogen sulphide in severely polluted biogas produced during the anaerobic digestion of sludge was studied by employing pure oxygen, air and nitrate as oxidant reactives supplied to the biodigester. Research was performed in a 200-L digester with an hydraulic retention time (HRT) of 20 days under mesophilic conditions. The oxygen supply (0.25 N m/m feed) to the bioreactor successfully reduced the hydrogen sulphide content from 15,811 mg/N m to less than 400 mg/N m. The introduction of air (1.27 N m/m feed) removed more than 99% of the hydrogen sulphide content, with a final concentration of 55 mg/N m. COD removal, VS reduction and methane yield were not affected under microaerobic conditions; however, methane concentration in the biogas decreased when air was employed as a result of nitrogen dilution. The nitrate addition was not effective for hydrogen sulphide removal in the biogas.
Biologic impact on the coastal belt of the province of Venice (Italy, Northern Adriatic Sea): preliminary analysis for the characterization of the bathing water profile.	This paper presents a preliminary study of the water profile with reference to microbiological parameters, required by Directive 2006/07/EC (European Community 2006) concerning the management of bathing water quality, in the coastal belt of the Province of Venice (Italy, Northern Adriatic Sea). A historical database has been implemented with monitoring data for the period 2000-2006 (data on rivers, bathing and marine coastal waters and on the characterization of Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) discharges) from the institutional activity of Veneto Regional Environmental Prevention and Protection Agency (ARPAV). An integrated areal analysis for the microbiological investigation of homogeneous stretches along the coast of the Province of Venice was performed for a preliminary characterization of the bathing water profile considering water quality status and existing pressure sources.
Role of sediment in the persistence of enteroviruses in the estuarine environment.	The survival of four enteroviruses commonly found in sewage effluents was examined when the viruses were adsorped to marine sediments in estuarine water and compared with virus survival in estuarine water alone. Echovirus 1, coxsackieviruses B3 and A9, and poliovirus 1 survived longer when associated with marine sediment. When the estuarine water was polluted with secondarily treated sewage effluent, virus survived for prolonged periods in sediments, but not in the overlaying estuarine water.
Nutrient contributions by benthal sludge deposits.	Settled solids from effluents discharged into a river system, undergoing decomposition at the river bottom, form an appreciable internal nutrient source for the biological activities in the river system. During the stabilization of benthal deposits, a variety of nutrients are released into the overlying waters. The exchange between sediment and overlying waters is a major component of the nitrogen and phosphorous cycles in the natural waters. The releases of such nutrients is a surface phenomenon, regulated by the conditions of benthal sludge layers, flow rate of overlying waters, etc. The rate of ammonia nitrogen release manifested an optimum low value when benthal sludge depth was 0.2 m, but was not influenced by the flow rate of overlying water and h/d ratios. The rate of phosphate release from benthal sludge was independent of depth of benthal sludge, flow rate and h/d ratios. The nutrients in the benthal sludge layers were increasing with time, and were concentrated at a layer 10 cm below the top surface. The nutrients release (percent of nutrient remaining in top benthal sludge layers) decreased with time and became almost constant after about 40 days. The nutrients release under continuously accumulating conditions of benthal sludge and the effects of frequency of addition have been discussed in this paper. The nutrients release was less when the frequency of addition was less.
Treatment of synthetic glucose media by an integrated process of anaerobic digestion and reverse osmosis.	A bio-kinetic study was conducted on a laboratory scale to evaluate the performance of an indigenously fabricated fixed film anaerobic reactor operated in upward flow mode for the treatment of synthetic glucose medium. The feasibility of using a combination of anaerobic treatment and reverse osmosis (RO) for generation of recyclable water from the effluent formed the basis of the study. The reactor was operated under different organic loading rates (OLR) and hydraulic residence times (HRT) at a constant feed pH of 7.0. The chemical oxygen demand (COD), biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), total alkalinity, pH and total volatile acids (TVA) were monitored in the samples drawn from different sampling ports provided in the reactor. Pilot-scale experiments using a spiral-wound thin-film composite (TFC) polyamide commercial membrane were carried out to investigate the potential of RO for processing the composite effluent emanating from the anaerobic process. Separation performance was evaluated at varying feed pressure (11-41 bar) and found to improve with increasing pressure. High rejection of dissolved solids (approximately 98%), COD, BOD and almost complete removal of color were achieved with reasonable flux and water recovery.
Optimization of Spongiochloris sp. biomass production in the abattoir digestate.	In the present study, the abattoir digestate was used as a culture medium for Spongiochloris sp. growth with added mineral components under optimized conditions in batch culture. Firstly, an Hadamard matrix was used to investigate the impact of certain influencing factors on the Spongiochloris sp. growth. Then, a fractional factorial design 2(7-4) was successfully employed to optimize the concentration of different added components to abattoir digestate for increased Spongiochloris sp. biomass production. The major influencing factors were NaHCO(3) and FeSO(4) at a level of 2000 mg/L and 5mg/L, respectively. A high biomass production of 5.29  10(6) cell/mL and an important content of chlorophyll a of 65.32 mg/L were obtained after 42 days of culture of Spongiochloris sp. on the defined abattoir medium at static conditions.
Bioconversion of wheat stalk to hydrogen by dark fermentation: effect of different mixed microflora on hydrogen yield and cellulose solubilisation.	This study determined hydrogen production, volatile fatty acids (VFAs) generation and cellulose solubilisation from anaerobic dark fermentation of wheat stalk and showed the effect of different mixed microflora. The cumulative hydrogen yields of anaerobic digested activated sludge (AS)-inoculated and anaerobic digested dairy manure (DM)-inoculated system were 23.3 and 37.0 mL/g VS at 204 h, respectively. A modified Gompertz equation was able to adequately describe the production of hydrogen from the batch fermentation by both mixed microflora. During the process, acetate and butyrate accounted for more than 76.1% of total VFAs for both fermentations. The extent of cellulose solubilisation approached 46.6% and 75.2% for AS- and DM-inoculated fermentation, respectively. The X-ray diffraction (XRD) showed that the crystallinities of both fermented stalks were partly disrupted by the mixed microflora, and DM-inoculated fermentation had more disruption than AS-inoculated one.
Mesophilic batch anaerobic co-digestion of pulp and paper sludge and monosodium glutamate waste liquor for methane production in a bench-scale digester.	This paper presented results from anaerobic co-digestion of pulp and paper sludge (PPS) and monosodium glutamate waste liquor (MGWL). A bench-scale anaerobic digester, 10 L in volume was developed, to operate under mesophilic (37  2C) batch condition. Under versatile and reliable anaerobic conduct, high efficiency for bioconversion of PPS and MGWL were obtained in the system. The accumulative methane yield attained to 200 mL g(-1) VS(added) and the peak value of methane daily production was 0.5m(3)/(m(3)d). No inhibitions of volatile fatty acids (VFAs) and ammonia on anaerobic co-digestion were found. pH 6.0-8.0 and alkalinity 1000-4000 mg CaCO(3)/L were got without adjustment. This work showed that there was a good potential to the use of PPS and MGWL to anaerobic co-digestion for methane production.
Comparative study of biological hydrogen production by pure strains and consortia of facultative and strict anaerobic bacteria.	In this paper, a simple and rapid method was developed in order to assess in comparative tests the production of binary biogas mixtures containing CO(2) and another gaseous compound such as hydrogen or methane. This method was validated and experimented for the characterisation of the biochemical hydrogen potential of different pure strains and mixed cultures of hydrogen-producing bacteria (HPB) growing on glucose. The experimental results compared the hydrogen production yield of 19 different pure strains and sludges: facultative and strict anaerobic HPB strains along with anaerobic digester sludges thermally pre-treated or not. Significant yields variations were recorded even between different strains of the same species by i.e. about 20% for three Clostridium butyricum strains. The pure Clostridium butyricum and pasteurianum strains achieved the highest yields i.e. up to 1.36 mol H(2)/mol glucose compared to the yields achieved by the sludges and the tested Escherichia and Citrobacter strains.
Abundance of amoA genes of ammonia-oxidizing archaea and bacteria in activated sludge of full-scale wastewater treatment plants.	In this study, the abundance and sequences of amoA genes of ammonia-oxidizing archaea (AOA) and bacteria (AOB) were determined in seven wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) whose ammonium concentrations in influent and effluent wastewaters varied considerably (5.6-422.3 mgN l(-1) and 0.2-29.2 mgN l(-1), respectively). Quantitative real-time PCR showed that the comparative abundance of AOA and AOB amoA genes differed among the WWTPs. In all three industrial WWTPs, where the influent and effluent contained the higher levels of ammonium (36.1-422.3 mgN l(-1) and 5.3-29.2 mgN l(-1), respectively), more than four orders of magnitude higher numbers of AOB amoA genes than AOA amoA genes arose (with less than the limit of detection of AOA amoA genes). In contrast, significant numbers of AOA amoA genes occurred in all municipal WWTPs (with ammonium levels in the influent and effluent of 5.6-11.0 mgN l(-1) and 0.2-3.0 mgN l(-1), respectively). Statistical analysis suggested that compared to other plants' parameters, the ammonium levels in the plants' effluent showed correlation with the highest p value to the abundance of AOA amoA genes.
High-rate partial nitrification treatment of reject water as a pretreatment for anaerobic ammonium oxidation (anammox).	In this study, a lab-scale swim-bed partial nitrification reactor was developed to treat ammonium-rich reject water to achieve an appropriate NO(2)(-)-N/NH(4)(+)-N mixture that could serve as a pretreatment for anaerobic ammonium oxidation (anammox). Strictly controlling the DO concentration was adopted as the main operational strategy. In addition, the influent concentrations of inorganic carbon/ammonium (IC/NH(4)(+)) and alkalinity/ammonium (Alk/NH(4)(+)) that were approximately 0.8 and 4.8, respectively, were regarded as the suitable ratios for the steady and high-rate operation of the reactor in this study. When reject water that was not diluted was introduced to this system, the maximum nitrogen loading rate was 5.9 kg-N/m(3)/day, the ammonium conversion rate was 3.1 kg-N/m(3)/day, and the effluent NO(2)-N/(NO(2)-N+NO(3)-N) percentage ratio was over 99.9%. Furthermore, DNA analysis confirmed the existence of AOB, which was responsible for the stable performance that was achieved in the PN reactor.
Effect of oxygen dosing point and mixing on the microaerobic removal of hydrogen sulphide in sludge digesters.	Limited oxygen supply to anaerobic sludge digesters to remove hydrogen sulphide from biogas was studied. Micro-oxygenation showed competitive performance to reduce considerably the additional equipment necessary to perform biogas desulphurization. Two pilot-plant digesters with an HRT of  20 d were micro-oxygenated at a rate of 0.25 NL per L of feed sludge with a removal efficiency higher than 98%. The way of mixing (sludge or biogas recirculation) and the point of oxygen supply (headspace or liquid phase) played an important role on hydrogen sulphide oxidation. While micro-oxygenation with sludge recirculation removed only hydrogen sulphide from the biogas, dissolved sulphide was removed if micro-oxygenation was performed with biogas recirculation. Dosage in the headspace resulted in a more stable operation. The result of the hydrogen sulphide oxidation was mostly elemental sulphur, partially accumulated in the headspace of the digester, where different sulphide-oxidising bacteria were found.
Model-based design of different fedbatch strategies for phenol degradation in acclimatized activated sludge cultures.	Microbial degradation of phenol was studied using batch and fedbatch cultures of acclimatized activated sludge under a wide range of phenol (0-793 mg l(-1)) and biomass (0.74-6.7 g l(-1)) initial concentrations. As cell growth continued after total phenol removal, the production and later consumption of a main metabolic intermediate was considered the step governing the biodegradation kinetics. A model that takes explicitly into account the kinetics of the intermediate was developed by introducing a specific growth rate model associated with its consumption and the incorporation of a dual-substrate inhibitory effect on phenol degradation. Biomass growth and phenol removal were adequately predicted in all the cultures. Moreover, the model-based design of the fedbatch feeding strategies allowed driving separately the phenol degradation under substrate-limitation and substrate-inhibition modes. A sensitivity analysis was also performed in order to establish the importance of the parameters in the accuracy of model predictions.
Biohydrogen and methane production by co-digestion of cassava stillage and excess sludge under thermophilic condition.	Thermophilic anaerobic hydrogen and methane production by co-digestion of cassava stillage (CS) and excess sludge (ES) was investigated in this study. The improved hydrogen and subsequent methane production were observed by co-digestion of CS with certain amount of ES in batch experiments. Compared with one phase anaerobic digestion, two phase anaerobic digestion offered an attractive alternative with more abundant biogas production and energy yield, e.g., the total energy yield in two phase obtained at VS(CS)/VS(ES) of 3:1 was 25% higher than the value of one phase. Results from continuous experiments further demonstrated that VS(CS)/VS(ES) of 3:1 was optimal for hydrogen production with the highest hydrogen yield of 74 mL/gtotal VS added, the balanced nutrient condition with C/N ratio of 1.5 g carbohydrate-COD/gprotein-COD or 11.9 g C/gN might be the main reason for such enhancement. VS(CS)/VS(ES) of 3:1 was also optimal for continuous methane production considering the higher methane yield of 350 mL/gtotal VS added and the lower propionate concentration in the effluent.
Pretreatment of municipal waste activated sludge for volatile sulfur compounds control in anaerobic digestion.	The effect of combination of mechanical and chemical pretreatment of municipal waste activated sludge (WAS) prior to anaerobic digestion was studied using a laboratory scale system with an objective to decrease volatile sulfur compounds in biogas and digested sludge. Mechanical pretreatment was conducted using depressurization of WAS through a valve from a batch pretreatment reactor pressurized at 75  1 psi, while combined pretreatments were conducted using six different dosages of hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) and ferrous chloride (FeCl(2)) along with mechanical pretreatment. About 37-46% removal of H(2)S in biogas occurred for different combined pretreatment conditions. Sludge solubilization achieved due to the mechanical pretreatment increased total cumulative methane production by 8-10% after 30 days during the biochemical methane potential (BMP) test. The pretreatment also improved dewaterability in terms of time to filter (TTF), and decreased methyl mercaptan generation potential of the digested sludge.
Biosorption of tetradecyl benzyl dimethyl ammonium chloride on activated sludge: kinetic, thermodynamic and reaction mechanisms.	The biosorption of tetradecyl benzyl dimethyl ammonium chloride (C(14)BDMA) onto activated sludge was examined in aqueous solution with respect to the contact time, temperature and particle size. Equilibrium reached in about 2h contact time. An decrease in the temperature increases of biosorption capacity of C(14)BDMA onto activated sludge, which also increases with decreasing particle size. The experimental data fit the pseudo-second-order kinetics model well. The Langmuir and Freundlich models were applied to describe equilibrium isotherms, and the equilibrium partitioning data was described well by both models. Thermodynamic data showed that C(14)BDMA biosorption onto activated sludge was feasible, spontaneous and exothermic. The Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectrophotometry results show that both physisorption and chemisorption were involved. The measured zeta potential values and the enhanced cation concentration indicate the presence of electrostatic interactions, hydrophobic interactions and ion exchange.
Relationship between anthropogenic sewage discharge, marsh structure and bird assemblages in an SW Atlantic saltmarsh.	One of the main effects of urbanization on coastal areas is through the discharge of sewage, which increases nutrient concentrations in the receiving environment. Salt marshes, like other coastal marine environments, are limited by nutrients, mainly nitrogen, and thus increasing nutrient loadings to a marsh may have consequences on marsh characteristics. We evaluated how the effects of nutrient enrichment in the form of sewage input, affected the vegetation structure and bird assemblages in a Spartina alterniflora salt marsh system near Baha Blanca, Argentina (39 01' S - 56 25' W). Surveys of nutrient concentration, vegetation and birds were made at three different distances from the sewage discharge source. The concentration of ammonium, phosphate, and nitrate and the percent organic matter was higher in marshes nearest to the sewage discharge source. Bird composition and abundance, and vegetation physiognomy changed along a gradient of nutrient concentration. The increased habitat complexity found near the areas of higher nutrient concentration was exploited by birds that use neighboring interior and coastal habitats, including Spartina densiflora marshes, freshwater marshes and upland shrubby habitats. Our results show that local increases of nutrient inputs directly changed the vegetation physiognomy, and indirectly the composition and abundance of bird assemblages.
Life cycle assessment of three water systems in Copenhagen--a management tool of the future.	Environmental life-cycle assessment (LCA) was applied to evaluate three different water systems of the water sector in Copenhagen, Denmark, including technologies within water supply, facilities recycling water and treatment of sewer overflow. In these three water systems LCA was used to evaluate the environmental impacts of each of the processes involved. The overall conclusion was that LCA is suitable as a decision support tool in the water sector as it provides a holistic evaluation platform of the considered alternatives categorised in environmental impact categories. The use of LCA in the water sector of this region has limitations since it does not yet consider impact categories assessing freshwater scarcity and ecological sustainability.
Pilot scale testing of a new configuration of the membrane aerated biofilm reactor (MABR) to treat high-strength industrial sewage.	An alternative design of the membrane aerated biofilm reactor (MABR) was developed to overcome some of the current technical and economical limitations preventing full scale applications of the process. The ZeeLung system uses a new dense hollow-fibre membrane with an unprecedented thin diameter. Two pilot units treating a synthetic high-strength industrial wastewater (4700 mgCOD/L, 145 mgTKN/L) operated successfully for 16 months. They performed simultaneous COD removal, nitrification and denitrification. The very high specific surface area (810 m2/m3) allowed the surface loading rate to be kept low enough (3.6 gCOD/(m2.d)) to maintain a relatively thin biofilm (200 to 350 microm) and use low-pressure air (41 kPa) instead of high-pressure pure oxygen. Intermittent air and liquid mixing at high frequency and low shear were compared: they were equally effective in enhancing substrate transfer, but failed to stabilize biofilm accumulation. Air sparging additionally prevented the acidification of the bulk by stripping CO2.
Digestion performance of various combinations of thermophilic and mesophilic sludge digestion systems.	Various combinations of single- and multi-stage anaerobic and aerobic-anaerobic digestion systems were studied to evaluate their solids reduction potential with capabilities to control sulfur-based biosolids odor compounds. All the multi-stage digestion systems removed more volatile solids than the single-stage anaerobic digestion systems, even at the same overall retention time. However, digestion systems with mesophilic digestion as the final stage showed a much lower headspace organic sulfur content in the dewatered biosolids than the systems with thermophilic digestion as the final stage. This observation leads to the conclusion that placing a mesophilic anaerobic digestion system at the end of multi-stage digestion systems will enable greater sulfur-based odor reduction from dewatered biosolids with greater solid reduction than single-stage mesophilic or thermophilic digestion systems.
The important role of microwave receptors in bio-fuel production by microwave-induced pyrolysis of sewage sludge.	Microwave receptor plays an important role in the microwave pyrolysis of sewage sludge in view of its significant influence on the yield and property of bio-fuel products. The yield and the chemical compositions of bio-fuels (gases and oils) obtained from sewage sludge mixed with different receptors (graphite, residue char, active carbon or silicon carbide) were investigated in this study by Gas Chromatography (GC), Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry (GC-MS), and Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR). The results showed that the use of silicon carbide gave rise to the highest final temperature of 1130C, resulting in the highest yield of gas fraction (up to 63.2 wt.%). The low heating rate (200C/min) which was attributed to the addition of residue char promoted condensation reactions and resulted in an increase in solid yield. The existence of active carbon could prolong the resistance time of volatiles in the hot zone owing to its porous structure, generating the maximum concentration of H(2)+CO (60%) in the pyrolysis gas. When graphite was used, the final low temperature favoured the cyclization of the alkenes, giving rise to a higher concentration of mononuclear aromatics in the pyrolysis oils. The model established in this study revealed that the quantity and quality of the products obtained from the microwave pyrolysis highly depended on the process conditions, which were influenced by the receptor significantly.
Mesophilic bio-liquefaction of lincomycin manufacturing biowaste: the influence of total solid content and inoculum to substrate ratio.	As the potential source of environmental antibiotic pollution, large amount of biowaste generated from antibiotic fermentation manufacture highlights its beneficial utilization for resource and nutrients recovery; which is suitable for anaerobic bio-liquefaction (hydrolysis and acidification). However, its high solid content and residual antibiotics are a cause for concern. In this study, batch anaerobic experiments were conducted to evaluate the bio-liquefaction performance of lincomycin manufacturing biowaste at different total solid content (TS) and the ratios of seeding granular sludge (inoculum) to substrate (ISR). The results showed that lincomycin manufacturing biowaste had high bio-liquefaction efficiency, with the highest 10d volatile solid (VS) degradation rate being approximately 38%. The bio-liquefaction efficiency of protein could reach 100%. Predicted by response surface methodology, 1580 mg/L gVS volatile fatty acids (VFAs) and 497 mg/L gVS ammonium were obtained at a TS of 10%, ISR of 3 and solid retention time of 9.5d, which is the optimum scenario.
Performance evaluation and prediction for a pilot two-stage on-site constructed wetland system employing dewatered alum sludge as main substrate.	Dewatered alum sludge, a widely generated by-product of drinking water treatment plants using aluminium salts as coagulants was used as main substrate in a pilot on-site constructed wetland system treating agricultural wastewater for 11 months. Treatment performance was evaluated and spreadsheet analysis was used to establish correlations between water quality variables. Results showed that removal rates (in g/m(2)d) of 4.6-249.2 for 5 day biochemical oxygen demand (BOD(5)), 35.6-502.0 for chemical oxygen demand (COD), 2.5-14.3 for total phosphorus (TP) and 2.7-14.6 for phosphate (PO(4)P) were achieved. Multiple regression analysis showed that effluent BOD(5) and COD can be predicted to a reasonable accuracy (R(2)=0.665 and 0.588, respectively) by using input variables which can be easily monitored in real time as sole predictor variables. This could provide a rapid and cheap alternative to such laborious and time consuming analyses and also serve as management tools for day-to-day process control.
Performance and characterization of a newly developed self-agitated anaerobic reactor with biological desulfurization.	The continuous operation of a newly developed methane fermentation reactor, which requires no electricity for the agitation of the fermentation liquid was investigated, and the extent of the biological desulfurization was monitored. Inside the reactor, the continual change in the liquid level and the self-agitation, occurring between 5 and 16 times every day, distributed the organic load near the inlet port of the reactor, as well as providing a nutrient supply to the hydrogen sulfide oxidizing bacteria. At different COD(Cr) loading rates (5, 7, 10 kg m(3)d(-1)), the reactor achieved a biogas production yield of 0.72-0.82 m(3)g(-1)-TS, a COD(Cr) reduction of 79.4-85.5% and an average of 99% hydrogen sulfide removal. This investigation demonstrated that the self-agitated reactor is comparable in digestion performance to the completely stirred tank reactor (CSTR) investigated in a previous study, and that the desulfurization performance was significantly enhanced compared to the CSTR.
A hybrid anaerobic membrane bioreactor coupled with online ultrasonic equipment for digestion of waste activated sludge.	Anaerobic membrane bioreactor and online ultrasonic equipment used to enhance membrane filtration were coupled to form a hybrid system (US-AnMBR) designed for long-term digestion of waste activated sludge. The US-AnMBR was operated under volatile solids loading rates of 1.1-3.7 gVS/Ld. After comprehensive studies on digestion performance and membrane fouling control in the US-AnMBR, the final loading rate was determined to be 2.7 gVS/Ld with 51.3% volatile solids destruction. In the US-AnMBR, the improved digestion was due to enhanced sludge disintegration, as indicated by soluble matter comparison in the supernatant and particle size distribution in the digested sludge. Maximum specific methanogenic activity revealed that ultrasound application had no negative effect on anaerobic microorganisms. Furthermore, implementing ultrasound effectively controlled membrane fouling and successfully facilitated membrane bioreactor operation. This lab-scale study demonstrates the potential feasibility and effectiveness of setting up a US-AnMBR system for sludge digestion.
Factors affecting the treatment of reject water by the anammox process.	Reject water from a municipal wastewater treatment plant was treated using a stirred tank anammox reactor after being treated by a partial nitrification reactor. The results indicated the variations in the influent NO(2)(-)-N to NH(4)(+)-N ratio had a negative effect on reactor performance, especially when the T-N concentrations were high. Influent total organic carbon concentrations greater than 50mg/L were proven to have a serious effect on the nitrogen removal efficiencies of the anammox reactor. Observations by scanning electron microscope showed that the surface of the anammox granular sludge was covered by some materials, possibly the effluent SS contained in the partial nitrified reject water. Furthermore, the study of the bacterial composition of the anammox granular sludge showed that the anammox bacterium, Planctomycete KSU-1, was dominant, even during the inhibition phase.
Demand for sanitation in Salvador, Brazil: a hybrid choice approach.	Funds to promote access to water and sanitation in developing countries are scarce and most of the investments come from the national governments and households sources, not international resources. In many of these countries, mainly in middle income countries, households are paying direct taxes to access these services, and understanding what determines their choice and motivation is fundamental to promote access to them. It has been argued that is not enough to supply a wide range of alternatives unless the individuals can recognise their benefits and sustainability. The objective of this paper is to understand the choice of sanitation technology by residents in the city of Salvador, Brazil. We propose a unique hybrid choice model that incorporates a set of latent attitudinal variables and explains how the demographic factors within a household influence choice. The substantial difference of our hybrid choice model from descriptive frameworks is that it integrates choice and latent variables (such as attitudes and preferences) allowing us to model explicitly the cognitive process that influences sanitation adoption, draw conclusions from cognitive variables associated with individuals' socio-economic and demographic characteristics, and establishes a causal pathway among these variables. The results show that the attributes of health protection, accessibility, privacy, and house modernisation were what households cared about when opting for flush toilet and sewerage connection, rather than the high cost and consequent household socio-economic status associated with them. The hybrid model is statistically consistent with these findings, and seems to fill the gap between behavioural theory and discrete choice models applied to sanitation.
Study on nitrogen removal performance of sequencing batch reactor enhanced by low intensity ultrasound.	Sequencing batch reactor (SBR) was widely used in the treatment of various wastewater. The effects of low intensity ultrasound on the nitrogen removal performance of SBR were studied. The optimum operation conditions were determined to be 35 kHz, 0.15 W cm(-2), and irradiation time of 10 min. Compared with those of the control reactor, the organic, NH(4)(+)-N, NO(2)(-)-N and NO(3)(-)-N loads of the ultrasound enhanced reactor (UER) were improved by 16.5%, 35.0%, 41.7% and 61.9%, respectively. Increased 2,3,5-triphenyl tetrazolium chloride-dehydrogenase and nitrification activities were observed with sludge in UER. Furthermore, negligible negative effects of ultrasound irradiation on the settle ability and sludge concentration were found, which resulted in no decrease of the nitrogen removal performance of the UER.
Anaerobic hydrolysis and acidification of organic substrates: determination of anaerobic hydrolytic potential.	This study aimed to develop a biochemical-test mainly to evaluate the hydrolytic-potential of different substrates and to apply this test to characterize various organic substrates. Outcome of this study can be used for optimization of the WWTPs through enhancement of N/P removal or anaerobic digestion. Out of four series of batch experiments, the first two tests were conducted to determine the optimal operating conditions (test duration, inoculum-ratio etc.) for the hydrolytic-potential test using secondary and synthetically-prepared sludges. Based on the results (generation of CODs, pH and VFA), test duration was fixed between 6 and 7d allowing to attain maximum hydrolysis and to avoid methanogenesis. Effect of inoculum-ratios on acid fermentation of sludge was not significantly noticed. Using this methodology, third and fourth tests were performed to characterize various organic substrates namely secondary, pre-treated sludge, pig and two different cattle slurries. VFA production was shown to be substantially dependent on substrates types.
Biogas production from potato-juice, a by-product from potato-starch processing, in upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) and expanded granular sludge bed (EGSB) reactors.	In this study, the utilization of potato-juice, the organic by-product from potato-starch processing, for biogas production was investigated in batch assay and in high rate anaerobic reactors. The maximum methane potential of the potato-juice determined by batch assay was 470 mL-CH(4)/gVS-added. Anaerobic digestion of potato-juice in an EGSB reactor could obtain a methane yield of 380 mL-CH(4)/gVS-added at the organic loading rate of 3.2 gCOD/(L-reactor.d). In a UASB reactor, higher organic loading rate of 5.1 gCOD/(L-reactor.d) could be tolerated, however, it resulted in a lower methane yield of 240 mL-CH(4)/gVS-added. The treatment of reactor effluent was also investigated. By acidification with sulfuric acid to pH lower than 5, almost 100% of the ammonia content in the effluent could be retained during the successive up-concentration process step. The reactor effluent could be up-concentrated by evaporation to minimize its volume, and later be utilized as fertilizer.
New sludge pretreatment method to improve dewaterability of waste activated sludge.	The enhancements of electrolysis-pretreated conditioning were investigated in this study. Normalized capillary suction time (CST) was used to evaluate sludge dewaterability. Extracellular polymeric substance (EPS) concentration, viscosity and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) were determined to explain the observed changes in conditioning process. It indicated that pretreatment at 50 v and 5 min with Ti/RuO(2) anode was determined to be the optimal condition, which generated the lowest normalized CST and optimal soluble EPS concentration, leading to the decreasing of viscosity. EPS had positive correlation with the normalized CST. Subjecting to a combination of electrolysis pretreatment and flocculants conditioning, 50% dosage of cationic polyacrylamide (PAM) could be reduced. When co-conditioned with electrolysis and polymerization ferric sulfate (PFS), it did not present any clear advantages over PFS conditioning alone. Furthermore, SEM investigation indicated that electrolysis pretreatment could rupture sludge, release the interstitial water and extracellular substances, especially protein and polysaccharide, and consequently enhance its dewaterability.
Effect of nitrate recycling ratio on simultaneous biological nutrient removal in a novel anaerobic/anoxic/oxic (A2/O)-biological aerated filter (BAF) system.	A novel system integrating anaerobic/anoxic/oxic (A(2)/O) and biological aerated filter (BAF), which could solve the sludge retention time (SRT) conflicting problem between nitrifiers and polyphosphate accumulating organisms (PAOs) by shortening SRT for PAOs in A(2)/O and lengthening SRT for nitrifiers in BAF, was investigated in this study. Various nitrate recycling ratios (100%, 200%, 300% and 400%) were applied to a lab-scaled A(2)/O-BAF system to detect the simultaneous biological nitrogen and phosphorus removal performance while treating real domestic wastewater with low carbon to nitrogen (C/N) ratio. The concentrations of chemical oxygen demand (COD), NH(4)(+)-N and total phosphorus (TP) in the effluent were less than 50.0, 0.5 and 0.5mg/L, respectively, throughout the experiments. The removal efficiencies of total nitrogen (TN) were 64.9%, 77.0%, 82.0% and 87.0%, under respective nitrate recycling ratios (increasing from 100% to 400%). By contrast, nitrate recycling ratios had neglectable effect on the removal efficiencies of COD and NH(4)(+)-N.
Production of medium-chain-length polyhydroxyalkanoates by activated sludge enriched under periodic feeding with nonanoic acid.	The potential use of activated sludge for the production of medium-chain-length polyhydroxyalkanoates (MCL-PHAs) was investigated. The enrichment of bacterial populations capable of producing MCL-PHAs was achieved by periodic feeding with nonanoic acid in a sequencing batch reactor (SBR). Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis analysis revealed Pseudomonas aeruginosa strains to be predominant in the bacterial community during the SBR process. The composition of PHA synthesized by the enriched biomass from nonanoic acid consisted of a large concentration (>89 mol%) of MCL monomer units and a small amount of short-chain-length monomer units. Under fed-batch fermentation with continuous feeding of nonanoic acid at a flow rate of 0.225 g/L/h and a C/N ratio of 40, a maximum PHA content of 48.6% dry cell weight and a conversion yield (Y(p/s)) of 0.94 g/g were achieved. These results indicate that MCL-PHA production by activated sludge is a promising alternative to typical pure culture approaches.
Simultaneous removal of 2-chlorophenol, phenol, p-cresol and p-hydroxybenzaldehyde under nitrifying conditions: kinetic study.	The kinetic behavior of a stable nitrifying consortium exposed to 2-chlorophenol (2-CP), phenol, p-cresol and p-hydroxybenzaldehyde (p-OHB) was evaluated in batch assays. Phenolic compounds were evaluated either individually or in mixture. In individual assays, 2-CP inhibited stronger the nitrification, diminishing the ammonium consumption efficiency (16%) and the nitrate production rate (at 91%). Nonetheless, the consumption efficiencies for all phenolics were of 100%. On the other hand, in mixture, the inhibitory effect of 2-CP diminished significantly, since ammonium consumption efficiency and nitrate production rate were improved. Consumption efficiencies for most of the phenolic compounds were high. Furthermore, the kinetic of 2-CP oxidation was 2.4-fold-faster than the individual assays. Finally, the experimental results showed the potential of nitrifying consortium for removing 2-CP, phenol, p-cresol and p-OHB. This is the first work showing the simultaneous removal of these pollutants and also this information might be useful for treating wastewaters of chemical complexity.
Analysis of the time dependency of ammonia-oxidizing bacterial community dynamics in an activated sludge bioreactor.	An autoregressive error term model was applied to examine the dynamic oscillation of ammonia-oxidizing bacterial (AOB) lineages found in an activated sludge bioreactor. The current abundance of AOB lineages was affected by the past abundance of AOB lineages and past environmental and operational factors as well as current influencing factors.
Potential fresh water saving using greywater in toilet flushing in Syria.	Greywater reuse is becoming an increasingly important factor for potable water saving in many countries. Syria is one of the most water scarce countries in the Middle East. However, greywater reuse is still not common in the country. Regulations and standards for greywater reuse are not available. Recently, however, several stakeholders have started to plan for greywater reuse. The main objective of this paper is to evaluate the potential for potable water saving by using greywater for toilet flushing in a typical Syrian city. The Sweida city in the southern part of Syria was chosen for this purpose. Interviews were made in order to reflect the social acceptance, water consumption, and the percentage of different indoor water uses. An artificial wetland (AW) and a commercial bio filter (CBF) were proposed to treat the greywater, and an economic analysis was performed for the treatment system. Results show that using treated greywater for toilet flushing would save about 35% of the drinking water. The economic analyses of the two proposed systems showed that, in the current water tariff, the payback period for AW and CBF in block systems is 7 and 52 years, respectively. However, this period will reduce to 3 and 21 years, respectively, if full water costs are paid by beneficiaries. Hence, introducing artificial wetlands in order to make greywater use efficient appears to be a viable alternative to save potable water.
Hydraulic management of a soil moisture controlled SDI wastewater dispersal system in an Alabama Black Belt soil.	Rural areas represent approximately 95% of the 14000 km(2) Alabama Black Belt, an area of widespread Vertisols dominated by clayey, smectitic, shrink-swell soils. These soils are unsuitable for conventional onsite wastewater treatment systems (OWTS) which are nevertheless widely used in this region. In order to provide an alternative wastewater dosing system, an experimental field moisture controlled subsurface drip irrigation (SDI) system was designed and installed as a field trial. The experimental system that integrates a seasonal cropping system was evaluated for two years on a 500-m(2) Houston clay site in west central Alabama from August 2006 to June 2008. The SDI system was designed to start hydraulic dosing only when field moisture was below field capacity. Hydraulic dosing rates fluctuated as expected with higher dosing rates during warm seasons with near zero or zero dosing rates during cold seasons. Lower hydraulic dosing in winter creates the need for at least a two-month waste storage structure which is an insurmountable challenge for rural homeowners. An estimated 30% of dosed water percolated below 45-cm depth during the first summer which included a 30-year historic drought. This massive volume of percolation was presumably the result of preferential flow stimulated by dry weather clay soil cracking. Although water percolation is necessary for OWTS, this massive water percolation loss indicated that this experimental system is not able to effective control soil moisture within its monitoring zone as designed. Overall findings of this study indicated that soil moisture controlled SDI wastewater dosing is not suitable as a standalone system in these Vertisols. However, the experimental soil moisture control system functioned as designed, demonstrating that soil moisture controlled SDI wastewater dosing may find application as a supplement to other wastewater disposal methods that can function during cold seasons.
Needs-based sewerage prioritization: alternative to conventional cost-benefit analysis.	This paper presents an empirical approach to select and prioritize sewerage projects within set budgetary limitations. The methodology includes a model which quantifies benefits of a sewerage project as an index or dimensionless number. The index considers need and urgency of sewerage and other project goals. Benefit is defined as the difference in anticipated impact between the current condition (without the project) and the expected condition with the project. Anticipated benefits primarily include reduction in environmental pollution, reduction of human diseases and morbidity, and other tangible and intangible improvement. This approach is a powerful decision tool for sewerage prioritization and an effective alternative to conventional cost-benefit analysis. Unlike conventional analysis, this approach makes no attempt to convert project benefits and other impacts into a monetary measure. This work recognizes that the decision to provide sewerage based solely on net benefits is not practical. Instead, benefit-cost ratios (B/C) are calculated utilizing cost-effectiveness approach. Using these ratios, 16 unserviced areas of Ensenada, Mexico are ranked. The prioritization rankings produced by this method must be further scrutinized and carefully reviewed for logic, accuracy of input data, and practicality of implementation. A similar framework may also be useful for prioritizing other public works projects.
Remediation of biodiesel wastewater by chemical- and electro-coagulation: a comparative study.	The remediation of biodiesel wastewater was carried out using chemical and electrochemical techniques. Initially the fatty acid methyl esters (FAME or biodiesel) and free fatty acids (FFA) were chemically removed from the wastewater using three types of mineral acids, H(2)SO(4), HNO(3) and HCl, at different pH values within the range of 1.0-8.0. Optimally, approximately 24.3 ml/l of FAME/FFA were removed from the wastewater when using H(2)SO(4) to set a final pH of 2.5 for 7 min. All pollutant levels were markedly reduced during this step. That is, approximately 38.94%, 76.32% and 99.36% of COD, BOD5 and oil & grease were respectively removed. The acidic aqueous phase left after the removal of the FAME/FFA phase was then treated by chemical- and electro-coagulation processes. The results demonstrated that both investigated treatment processes were effective for treating wastewater from a biodiesel production plant. The chemical coagulation provided a lower operating cost (1.11 USD/m(3)) compared with the electro-coagulation process (1.78 USD/m(3)). However, the latter process provided a better quality of wastewater compared with the former process, with the exception of the BOD levels.
The performance of constructed wetlands treating primary, secondary and dairy soiled water in Ireland (a review).	In Ireland, no database detailing the design, influent loading rates or performance of constructed wetlands (CWs) exists. On account of this, they are designed without any protocol based on empirical data. The aim of this paper was to provide the first published data on the performance of free-water surface flow (FWSF) CWs treating primary and secondary-treated municipal wastewater, and agricultural dairy soiled water (DSW) in Ireland. In total, the performance of thirty-four FWSF CWs, comprising fourteen CWs treating primary-treated municipal wastewater, thirteen CWs treating secondary-treated municipal wastewater, and seven CWs treating DSW, were examined. In most CWs, good organic, suspended solids (SS) and nutrient removal was measured. At an average organic loading rate (OLR) of 10 and 9 g biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) m(-2) d(-1), CWs treating primary and secondary wastewater removed 95 and 84% of influent BOD. Constructed wetlands treating DSW had an average BOD removal of 98%. At average SS loading rates of 6 and 14 g m(-2) d(-1), CWs treating primary and secondary wastewater had a 96 and an 82% reduction, and produced a final effluent with a concentration of 14 and 13 mg L(-1). Constructed wetlands treating DSW produced a final effluent of 34 mg L(-1) (94% reduction). Similar to other studies, all CWs examined had variable performance in ammonium-N (NH(4)(+)-N) removal, with average removals varying between 37% (for CWs treating secondary wastewater) and 88% (for CWs treating DSW). Variable ortho-phosphorus (PO(4)(3-)-P) removal was attributable to different durations of operation, media types and loading rates.
Vermicomposting of tannery sludge mixed with cattle dung into valuable manure using earthworm Eisenia fetida (Savigny).	The present study revealed the role of earthworm in converting tannery sludge into a valuable product. Tannery sludge was toxic to earthworm, therefore it was mixed with cattle dung in different proportions viz. 0:100 (T(0)), 10:90 (T(10)), 25:75 (T(25)), 50:50 (T(50)) and 75:25 (T(75)) on dry weight basis. The minimum mortality and highest population buildup of worms was in T(0) mixture. Nitrogen, sodium, phosphorus and pH increased from initial in the range of 7.3-66.6%, 16.90-70.58%, 8.57-44.8% and 2.8-13.65%, respectively. On the other hand potassium, organic carbon and electrical conductivity decreased in the range of 4.34-28.5%, 7.54-22.35% and 32.35-53.12%, respectively. C:N ratio decreased from 20.53% to 47.36% in the final products. Transition metals increased significantly from the initial value and within the permissible limit. The result indicated that vermicomposting with Eisenia fetida is better for changing this sludge into nutrient rich manure in a short period of time.
Assessment of a bioaugmentation strategy with polyphosphate accumulating organisms in a nitrification/denitrification sequencing batch reactor.	Different alternative configurations and strategies for the simultaneous biological removal of organic matter and nutrients (N and P) in wastewater have been proposed in the literature. This work demonstrates a new successful strategy to bring in enhanced biological phosphorus removal (EBPR) to a conventional nitrification/denitrification system by means of bioaugmentation with an enriched culture of phosphorus accumulating organisms (PAO). This strategy was tested in a sequencing batch reactor (SBR), where an 8h configuration with 3h anoxic, 4.5h aerobic and 25 min of settling confirmed that nitrification, denitrification and PAO activity could be maintained for a minimum of 60 days of operation after the bioaugmentation step. The successful bioaugmentation strategy opens new possibilities for retrofitting full-scale WWTP originally designed for only nitrification/denitrification. These systems could remove P simultaneously to COD and N if they were bioaugmented with waste purge of an anaerobic/aerobic SBR operated in parallel treating part of the influent wastewater.
Effects of carbonization and solvent-extraction on change in fuel characteristics of sewage sludge.	Urban sewage sludge was carbonized at 300-500C for 1h, and combustible components were extracted through the solvent-extraction process. N-methyl-2-pyrrolidinone (NMP) was used as the solvent for extraction, and the extraction temperature was fixed at 360C. The atomic ratios of the solvent-extracted sludge of CS300 (ECS300) were shown to be 1.04 for H/C and 0.11 for O/C, which represented the characteristics of its coal band. Thus, its coal band was similar to that of a high-rank fuel such as bituminous coal. FT-IR analysis showed that the absorbance band of ECS300 was considerably different from that of dried sludge (RS) or the carbonized sludge at 300C (CS300) but similar to that of coal, although the ash content absorbance band of 800-1200 cm(-1) was of very low intensity. The combustion profile showed that combustion of ESC300 occurred at a temperature higher than the ignition temperature (T(i)) or maximum weight loss rate (DTG(max)) of coal.
Factors in the determination of methanogenic potential of manure.	The influence of the substrate concentration, the micro and macro nutrients and buffer requirements, the sludge origin (biomass that is acclimatized or not acclimatized to waste) and the inoculum/substrate ratio (ISR) were studied to determine their effects in the methanogenic potential of turkey manure, which is a solid waste. According to the results obtained, the methane production determination does not require the addition of nutrients (additional to the contents in the waste) and a buffer for this type of assay. The methane yield ((CH) ) performance is given by the substrate concentration and the sludge origin, therefore it is better to carry out the assay with biomass that is already adapted to the waste. The methanogenic potential of this type of waste is not determined by the amount of sludge and it does not need an external inoculum (external to the waste contents).
Techno-economical study of ethanol and biogas from spruce wood by NMMO-pretreatment and rapid fermentation and digestion.	Given that N-methylmorpholine-N-oxide (NMMO) is a promising alternative for the pretreatment of lignocelluloses, a novel process for ethanol and biogas production from wood was developed. The solvent, NMMO, is concentrated by multistage evaporation, and the wood is pretreated with the concentrated NMMO. Thereafter, ethanol is produced by the non-isothermal simultaneous saccharification and fermentation (NSSF) method, which is a rapid and efficient process. The wastewater is treated by upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) digester for rapid production of biogas. The process was simulated by Aspen plus. Using mechanical vapor recompression for evaporators in the pretreatment and multi-pressure distillation columns, the energy requirements for the process were minimized. The economical feasibility of the developed biorefinery for five different plant capacities was studied by Aspen Icarus Process Evaluator. The base case was designed to utilize 200,000 tons of spruce wood per year and required M 58.3 as the total capital investment, while the production cost of ethanol is calculated to be /l 0.44.
Effects of microwave and alkali induced pretreatment on sludge solubilization and subsequent aerobic digestion.	Individual and combined effects of microwave (MW) and alkali pretreatments on sludge disintegration and subsequent aerobic digestion of waste activated sludge (WAS) were studied. Pretreatments with MW (600W-85C-2 min), conventional heating (520 W-80C-12 min) and alkali (1.5 g NaOH/L - pH 12-30 min) achieved 8.5%, 7% and 18% COD solubilization, respectively. However, combined MW-alkali pretreatment synergistically enhanced sludge solubilization and achieved 46% COD solubilization, 20% greater than the additive value of MW alone and alkali alone (8.5+18%=26.5%). Moreover, the results of the batch aerobic digestion study on MW-alkali pretreated sludge showed 93% and 63% reductions in SCOD and VSS concentrations, respectively, at 16 days of SRT. The VSS reduction was 20% higher than that of WAS without pretreatment.
Development of an efficient process for the treatment of residual sludge discharged from an anaerobic digester in a sewage treatment plant.	In order to reduce the discharge of residual sludge from an anaerobic digester, pre-treatment methods including low-pressure wet-oxidation, Fenton oxidation, alkali treatment, ozone oxidation, mechanical destruction and enzymatic treatment were evaluated and compared. VSS removal efficiencies of greater than 50% were achieved in cases of low-pressure wet-oxidation, Fenton oxidation and alkali treatment. Residual sludge from an anaerobic digester was pre-treated and subjected to thermophilic anaerobic digestion. As a result, the process of low-pressure wet-oxidation followed by anaerobic digestion achieved the highest VSS removal efficiency of 83%. The total efficiency of VSS removal of sewage sludge consisting of primary and surplus sludge would be approximately 92%, assuming that the VSS removal efficiency of sewage sludge is 50% in the anaerobic digester of the sewage treatment plant.
Metabolic influence of lead on polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHA) production and phosphate uptake in activated sludge fed with glucose or acetic acid as carbon source.	Sludge in a sequential batch reactor (SBR) system was used to investigate the effect of lead toxicity on metabolisms of polyphosphate accumulating organisms (PAOs) and glycogen accumulating organisms (GAOs) communities fed with acetic acid or glucose as their sole carbon source, respectively. Results showed that the effect of lead on substrate utilization of both PAOs and GAOs was insignificant. However, lead substantially inhibited both of phosphate release and uptake of PAOs. In high concentration of acetic acid trials, an abnormal aerobic phosphate release was observed instead of phosphate uptake and the release rate increased with increasing lead concentration. Results also showed that PAOs could normally synthesize polyhydroxybutyrate (PHB) in the anaerobic phase even though lead concentration was 40 mg L(-1). However, they could not aerobically utilize PHB normally in the presence of lead. On the other hand, GAOs could not normally metabolize polyhydroxyvalerate (PHV) in both the anaerobic and aerobic phases.
Dynamic fouling behaviors of submerged nonwoven bioreactor for filtration of activated sludge with different SRT.	The flux variations and resistances accumulated during filtration of activated sludge with sludge retention time (SRT) of 15, 30, and 60 days were analyzed to investigate the dynamic fouling behavior in a submerged nonwoven bioreactor. Different SRT values varied sludge condition and particle size distribution in the supernatants, which caused dissimilar fouling characteristics. Short-term fouling of the nonwoven bioreactor during filtration of activated sludge with SRT of 15 days was fully reversible, and the resistance percentages of solutes, colloids, and suspended solids were 6%, 27%, and 67%, respectively. On the other hand, significant increases of colloid resistance, such as with the filtration of activated sludge with SRT of 30 and 60 days, were related to the occurrence of irreversible fouling. The phenomenon of pore blocking by particles or colloids with size analogous to the pore of nonwoven fabric was a decisive factor leading to irreversible fouling in the large-pore materials.
Evaluation of PPCPs removal in a combined anaerobic digester-constructed wetland pilot plant treating urban wastewater.	The removal efficiency of 16 pharmaceuticals and personal care products (PPCPs) from urban wastewater (dissolved and particulate phases) was evaluated for the first time in a hybrid pilot plant consisting of an upflow anaerobic sludge blanket reactor followed by two sequentially connected horizontal flow constructed wetlands: a surface flow wetland (SF CW) and a subsurface flow wetland (SSF CW). Whereas the PPCP removal associated with the dissolved phase exhibited a seasonal pattern, the fraction associated with the suspended solids showed less seasonality. In the dissolved phase, the overall removal efficiency in summer ranged from 70% to 85% for salicylic acid (SAL), methyl dihydrojasmonate, caffeine (CAF), ketoprofen and triclosan, whereas in winter it declined for most of the PPCPs to between 30% and 50%, except for CAF and SAL (>80%) and carbamazepine and butylated hydroxyl toluene (11-18%). In the suspended solids, the removal exceeded 80% for most of the target PPCPs. The efficiency of the different treatment steps was also compound-dependent, but the SF CW generally exhibited the highest removal efficiency for most of the contaminants analyzed. The characterization of the organic matter retained in the wetland gravel beds revealed the occurrence of hydrophobic contaminants such as phthalate esters and fragrances at moderate concentrations (i.e., up to 3.5 g kg(-1)), which declined strongly over the course of the different treatment steps. In the SF CW, the net mass accumulation rates of tonalide and galaxolide were 4 and 23 gy(-1) respectively, whereas in the SSF CW they were 0.3 and 1.8 gy(-1) respectively.
Sludge drying reed beds for septage treatment: towards design and operation recommendations.	This paper focuses on the feasibility of septage treatment by sludge drying reed beds (SDRB). Different designs and operation conditions of SRDB pilot-scales were tested on system efficiencies such as the top filtration layer (sand or compost) and the organic load (30 and 50 kg SSm(-2)y(-1)). Results focus on the obtained performances considering sludge characteristics, filtration efficiencies, percolate qualities, and sludge deposit properties. Although results show better filtration efficiency for activated sludge (e.g. SS removal around 98.4%) than for septage (e.g. SS removal around 87.5%), the feasibility of septage treatment with SDRB has been demonstrated with, at 50 kg SSm(-2)y(-1) sludge accumulation, and dry matter about 7.9 cm y(-1) and 70% (summer period), respectively. Further design and operation condition recommendations for SDRB treating septage are proposed.
The feasibility of using a two-stage autotrophic nitrogen removal process to treat sewage.	The feasibility of using a two-stage autotrophic nitrogen removal process to treat sewage was examined in this study. The obtained results showed that total nitrogen (TN) could be efficiently removed by 88.38% when influent TN and chemical oxygen demand (COD) were 45.87 and 44.40 mg/L, respectively. In the first stage, nitritation was instantly achieved by the bioaugmentation strategy, and can be maintained under limited oxygen condition (below 0.2mg/L). The ratio of nitrite to ammonium in the effluent of the nitritation reactor can be controlled at approximate 1.0 by adjusting aeration rate. In the second stage, anammox was realized in the upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) reactor, where the total nitrogen removal rate was 0.40 kg Nm(-3)d(-1) under limited-substrate condition. Therefore, the organic matter in sewage can be firstly concentrated in biomass which could generate biogas (energy). Then, nitrogen in sewage could be removed in a two-stage autotrophic nitrogen removal process.
Retrospective of ecological approaches to excess sludge reduction.	The problem of excess sludge handling produced during wastewater treatment is undeniable reality of grave concern with increasingly stringent legislations. The sludge synthesis yield being 0.4-0.6kgVSS/kgCOD (0.57-0.8kgCODcell/kgCOD), results in high power consumption on its digestion and therefore taken considerable attention to achieve sustainable strategies. Solids reduction by physico-chemical methods results in buildup of chemicals. This may present risk to the environment and may require further treatment to remove the chemicals of concern in future. Wastewater sludge reduction upto 100% by biological, sustainable, non-hazardous, and environment friendly methods has been successfully tested at different levels. Therefore, above reasons were sufficient driving forces to confine this review to non-chemically assisted processes. Similarly, the thermally assisted processes result in high carbon footprint and excluded from the scope of this review. Enough has been reviewed on sludge reduction, as numbers of articles on the same subject with different angles have been reported, still the progress in the last few years is missing; hence, special emphasis is given herewith to highlight the efforts of the last five years.
Sorption and desorption of Cd, Cu and Pb using biomass from an eutrophized habitat in monometallic and bimetallic systems.	This work examines the sorption capacity of a natural biomass collected from an irrigation pond. The biomass mainly consisted of a mixture of chlorophyte algae with caducipholic plants. Biosorption experiments were performed in monometallic and bimetallic solutions containing different metals commonly found in industrial effluents (Cd, Cu and Pb). The biosorption process was slightly slower in the binary system comparing with monometallic system which was related to competition phenomena between metal cations in solution. The biosorbent behaviour was quantified by the sorption isotherms fitting the experimental data to mathematical models. In monometallic systems, the Langmuir model showed a better fit with the following sorption order: Cu ~ Pb > Cd; and biomass-metal affinity order: Pb > Cd ~ Cu. In bimetallic systems, the binary-type Langmuir model was used and the sorption order obtained was: Pb ~ Cu > Cd. In addition, the effectiveness of the biomass was investigated in several sorption-desorption cycles using HCl and NaHCO(3). The recovery of metal was higher with HCl than with NaHCO(3), though the sorption uptake of the biomass was sensitively affected by the former desorption agent in subsequent sorption cycles.
Microwave, ultrasonic and chemo-mechanical pretreatments for enhancing methane potential of pulp mill wastewater treatment sludge.	Microwave (2450 MHz, 1250 W), ultrasonic (20 kHz, 400 W) and chemo-mechanical (MicroSludge with 900 mg/L NaOH followed by 83,000 kPa) pretreatments were applied to pulp mill waste sludge to enhance methane production and reduce digester sludge retention time. The effects of four variables (microwave temperature in a range of 50-175C) and sonication time (15-90 min), sludge type (primary or secondary) and digester temperature (mesophilic and thermophilic) were investigated. Microwave pretreatment proved to be the most effective, increasing specific methane yields of WAS samples by 90% compared to controls after 21 days of mesophilic digestion. Sonication solubilized the sludge samples better, but resulted in soluble non-biodegradable compounds. Based on the laboratory scale data, MicroSludge was found the least energy intensive pretreatment followed by sonication for 15 min alternative with net energy profits of 1366 and 386 kWh/tonne of total solids (TS), respectively. Pretreatment benefits were smaller for thermophilic digesters.
Chemical properties of biocrude oil from the hydrothermal liquefaction of Spirulina algae, swine manure, and digested anaerobic sludge.	This study explores the influence of wastewater feedstock composition on hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) biocrude oil properties and physico-chemical characteristics. Spirulina algae, swine manure, and digested sludge were converted under HTL conditions (300C, 10-12 MPa, and 30 min reaction time). Biocrude yields ranged from 9.4% (digested sludge) to 32.6% (Spirulina). Although similar higher heating values (32.0-34.7 MJ/kg) were estimated for all product oils, more detailed characterization revealed significant differences in biocrude chemistry. Feedstock composition influenced the individual compounds identified as well as the biocrude functional group chemistry. Molecular weights tracked with obdurate carbohydrate content and followed the order of Spirulina<swine manure<digested sludge. A similar trend was observed in boiling point distributions and the long branched aliphatic contents. These findings show the importance of HTL feedstock composition and highlight the need for better understanding of biocrude chemistries when considering bio-oil uses and upgrading requirements.
Influence of humic substances on bioavailability of Cu and Zn during sewage sludge composting.	Influence of humic substances (HS) on bioavailability of Cu and Zn was characterized during 120 days co-composting of sewage sludge and maize straw. At the initial stage of composting, Cu and Zn in sewage sludge were released as organic matter was degraded, and water soluble Cu and Zn increased markedly. Water soluble Cu and FA content decreased after 21 days whereas water soluble Zn increased during the whole process. Both HA-Cu and HA-Zn were significantly and positively correlated with HA and H/F, respectively. At the end of composting, the distribution coefficients of HA-Cu and HA-Zn reached 27.50% and 3.33% respectively with HA-Cu/HA-Zn ratio increased from 1.29 to 2.73. The results suggest that Cu combined with HA more strongly than Zn, and composting treatment could decrease bioavailability of Cu markedly.
Methanotrophic community structure of aged refuse and its capability for methane bio-oxidation.	Aged refuse from waste landfills closed for eight years was examined and found to contain rich methanotrophs capable of biooxidation for methane. Specially, community structure and methane oxidation capability of methanotrophs in the aged refuse were studied. The amount of methanotrophs ranged 61.97 x 10(3)-632.91 x 10(3) cells/g (in dry basis) in aged refuse from Shanghai Laogang Landfill. Type I and II methanotrophs were found in the aged refuse in the presence of sterilized sewage sludge and only Type I methanotrophs were detected in the presence of nitrate minimal salt medium (NMS). The clone sequences of the pmoA gene obtained from the aged refuse were similar to the pmoA gene of Methylobacter Methylocaldum, and Methylocystis, and two clones were distinct with known genera of Type I methanotrophs according to phylogenetic analysis. Aged refuse enriched with NMS was used for methane biological oxidation and over 93% conversions were obtained.
Coupling of zero valent iron and biobarriers for remediation of trichloroethylene in groundwater.	This study attempted to construct a three series barrier system to treat high concentrations of trichloroethylene (TCE; 500 mg/L) in synthetic groundwater. The system consisted of three reactive barriers using iron fillings as an iron-based barrier in the first column, sugarcane bagasse mixed with anaerobic sludge as an anaerobic barrier in the second column, and a biofilm coated on oxygen carbon inducer releasing material as an aerobic barrier in the third column. In order to evaluate the extent of removal of TCE and its metabolites in the aquifer down gradient of the barrier system, a fourth column filled with sand was applied. Residence time of the system was investigated by a bromide tracer test. The results showed that residence time in the column system of the control set and experimental set were 23.62 and 29.99 days, respectively. The efficiency of the three series barrier system in removing TCE was approximately 84% in which the removal efficiency of TCE by the iron filling barrier, anaerobic barrier and aerobic barrier were 42%, 16% and 25%, respectively, cis-Dichloroethylene (cis-DCE), vinyl chloride (VC), ethylene and chloride ions were observed as metabolites following TCE degradation. The presence of chloride ions in the effluent from the column system indicated the degradation of TCE. However, cis-DCE and VC were not fully degraded by the proposed barrier system which suggested that another remediation technology after the barrier treatment such as air sparging and adsorption by activated carbon should be conducted.
Simultaneous biohydrogen and bioethanol production from anaerobic fermentation with immobilized sludge.	The effects of organic loading rates (OLRs) on fermentative productions of hydrogen and ethanol were investigated in a continuous stirred tank reactor (CSTR) with attached sludge using molasses as substrate. The CSTR reactor with attached sludge was operated under different OLRs, ranging from 8 to 24 kg/m(3)d. The H(2) and ethanol production rate essentially increased with increasing OLR. The highest H(2) production rate (10.74 mmol/hL) and ethanol production rate (11.72 mmol/hL) were obtained both operating at OLR = 24 kg/m(3)d. Linear regression results show that ethanol production rate (y) and H(2) production rate (x) were proportionately correlated and can be expressed as y = 1.5365x - 5.054 (r(2) = 0.9751). The best energy generation rate was 19.08 kJ/hL, which occurred at OLR = 24 kg/m(3)d. In addition, the hydrogen yield was affected by the presence of ethanol and acetic acid in the liquid phase, and the maximum hydrogen production rate occurred while the ratio of ethanol to acetic acid was close to 1.
Characterization of buoyant fluorescent particles for field observations of water flows.	In this paper, the feasibility of off-the-shelf buoyant fluorescent microspheres as particle tracers in turbid water flows is investigated. Microspheres' fluorescence intensity is experimentally measured and detected in placid aqueous suspensions of increasing concentrations of clay to simulate typical conditions occurring in natural drainage networks. Experiments are conducted in a broad range of clay concentrations and particle immersion depths by using photoconductive cells and image-based sensing technologies. Results obtained with both methodologies exhibit comparable trends and show that the considered particles are fairly detectable in critically turbid water flows. Further information on performance and integration of the studied microspheres in low-cost measurement instrumentation for field observations is obtained through experiments conducted in a custom built miniature water channel. This experimental characterization provides a first assessment of the feasibility of commercially available buoyant fluorescent beads in the analysis of high turbidity surface water flows. The proposed technology may serve as a minimally invasive sensing system for hazardous events, such as pollutant diffusion in natural streams and flash flooding due to extreme rainfall.
Assessment of environmental variables in Cauvery River and its tributaries.	This research paper pertains to the variation in water quality with special reference to physicochemical and biological parameters in Cauvery River and its tributaries in India over a period of 1 year. The quality of water in four streams of Cauvery River in Mysore, Mandya and Chamaraja Nagar districts, where many small scale sugar, paper industries and agricultural lands are located were analyzed. Sampling was carried out from Cauvery and its tributaries which were designated as stations 1, 2, 3 & 4 (all towards down streams of Cauvery River). The river water composition is increasingly dominated by PO4, NO3 Cl at stations 3 & 4 compared to stations 1 & 2. Significant spatial variations were observed in water level, transparency, turbidity, colour, DO, BOD, NO3, NO2 and total hardness among the physico-chemical parameters at the study locations. The DO level at stations 3 & 4 was lower than 5.0 mg/L, which is the recommended minimum allowable limit for aquatic life. 30 species of phytoplanktons were identified under five classes: viz, Chlorophyceae, Bacillariophyceae, Cyanophyceae, Euglenophyceae and Desmidaceae. About 20 algal species were recorded at station 1, 16 at station 2,13 species at station 3 and 14 species at station 4. The overall diversity and density of algae at four stations was significantly different. A posterior comparison revealed that stations 3 and 4 are the cause of significant difference. The chlorophyceae members, which dominated the algal community, were found to tolerate the effluent effect at stations land 2. Low algal diversity and negative impact on the biotic and abiotic environment were experienced at stations 3 and 4 throughout the duration of sampling, because of man made activities.
Variation in calcium and magnesium ratio with increasing electrical conductivity of groundwater from shallow basaltic aquifers of Maharashtra (India).	The hydrochemical investigations of 523 groundwater samples from shallow basaltic aquifers of Maharashtra (India) have shown that the Ca/Mg ratio decreases gradually in the groundwater with increasing EC. The ratio was found high for the groundwater having EC less than 500 microS/cm representing a typical water from the basaltic aquifer having more Ca than Mg. The ratio decreases beyond EC of 500 microS/cm showing an increase in concentration of Mg as compared to Ca. The Mg concentration reaches maximum in the groundwater having EC greater than 2000 microS/cm. This decrease in Ca/Mg ratio with increase in mineralisation is possibly due to the percolation of domestic sewage and animal waste to groundwater.
Poison-based commensal rodent control strategies in urban ecosystems: some evidence against sewer-baiting.	Sewers are historically considered the main reservoir for commensal rodents, posing threats to urban ecosystem health. Aboveground rodent signs are often assumed to give clues to high sewer infestation, which can chronically restock surface areas. Thus, current sewer-baiting programmes are mostly reactive, responding to increased surface infestation. Conversely, proactive sewer-baiting (regardless of infestation levels) is often disregarded because cost-effectiveness is not always addressed. We explored the extent to which the surface infestation is related to rodent feeding activity on sewer and surface baits by analysing a set of proactive bait records in Bologna city, Italy. Sewer bait intakes were significantly lower than surface ones, suggesting that proactive sewer-baiting is generally less effective. As surface infestation increased, probability of recording surface bait intake increased significantly but this was not reflected by increased sewer bait intake, suggesting that surface infestation is not always a reliable indicator of sewer infestation. This should discourage the use of reactive sewer-baiting as a routine strategy. Poison-based control programmes by themselves are scarcely predictable and strategically limited, and ideally they should be handled within an ecologically based integrated pest management approach for achieving satisfactory results.
Degradation and environmental risk of surfactants after the application of compost sludge to the soil.	In this work, the degradation of anionic and non-ionic surfactants in agricultural soil amended with sewage sludge is reported. The compounds analysed were: linear alkylbenzene sulphonates (LAS) with a 10-13 carbon alkylic chain, and nonylphenolic compounds (NPE), including nonylphenol (NP) and nonylphenol ethoxylates with one and two ethoxy groups (NP1EO and NP2EO). The degradation studies were carried out under winter (12.7C) and summer (22.4C) conditions in Andalusia region. The concentration of LAS was reduced to 2% of the initial concentration 100 day after sludge-application to the soil. The half-life time measured for LAS homologues were ranged between 4 and 14days at 12.7C and between 4 and 7 days at 22.4C. With regard to NPE compounds, after 8 and 4days from the beginning of the experiment at 12.7 and 22.4C, respectively, their concentration levels were increased to 6.5 and 13.5mg/kgdm (dry matter) as consequence of the degradation of nonylphenol polyethoxylates. These concentration levels were reduced to 5% after 63 and 70 days for 12.7C and 22.4C, respectively. The half-life times measured for NPEs were from 8 to 16 days at 12.7C and from 8 to 18 days at 22.4C. Environmental risk assessment revealed that for LAS homologues no environment risk could be expected after 7 and 8 days of sludge application to the soil for 22.4 and 12.7C, respectively; however, potential toxic effects could be observed for the nonylphenolic compounds during the first 56 days after sludge application to the soil.
Sampling of tar from sewage sludge gasification using solid phase adsorption.	Sewage sludge is a residue from wastewater treatment plants which is considered to be harmful to the environment and all living organisms. Gasification technology is a potential source of renewable energy that converts the sewage sludge into gases that can be used to generate energy or as raw material in chemical synthesis processes. But tar produced during gasification is one of the problems for the implementation of the gasification technology. Tar can condense on pipes and filters and may cause blockage and corrosion in the engines and turbines. Consequently, to minimize tar content in syngas, the ability to quantify tar levels in process streams is essential. The aim of this work was to develop an accurate tar sampling and analysis methodology using solid phase adsorption (SPA) in order to apply it to tar sampling from sewage sludge gasification gases. Four types of commercial SPA cartridges have been tested to determine the most suitable one for the sampling of individual tar compounds in such streams. Afterwards, the capacity, breakthrough volume and sample stability of the Supelclean ENVI-Carb/NH(2), which is identified as the most suitable, have been determined. Basically, no significant influences from water, H(2)S or NH(3) were detected. The cartridge was used in sampling real samples, and comparable results were obtained with the present and traditional methods.
Nitrous oxide emissions from the oxidation tank of a pilot activated sludge plant.	This study discusses the results of the continuous monitoring of nitrous oxide emissions from the oxidation tank of a pilot conventional wastewater treatment plant. Nitrous oxide emissions from biological processes for nitrogen removal in wastewater treatment plants have drawn great attention over the last years, due to the high greenhouse effect. However, even if several studies have been carried out to quantify nitrous oxide emission rates from different types of treatment, quite wide ranges have been reported. Only grab samples or continuous measurements over limited periods were considered in previous studies, which can account for the wide variability of the obtained results. Through continuous monitoring over several months, our work tries to fill this gap of knowledge and get a deeper insight into nitrous oxide daily and weekly emission dynamics. Moreover, the influence of some operating conditions (sludge age, dissolved oxygen concentration in the oxidation tank, nitrogen load) was studied to determine good practices for wastewater treatment plant operation aiming at the reduction of nitrous oxide emissions. The dissolved oxygen set-point is shown to play a major role in nitrous oxide emissions. Low sludge ages and high nitrogen loads are responsible for higher emissions as well. An interesting pattern has been observed, with quite negligible emissions during most of the day and a peak with a bell-like shape in the morning in the hours of maximum nitrogen load in the plant, correlated to the ammonia and nitrite peaks in the tank.
Improvement of sludge dewaterability and removal of sludge-borne metals by bioleaching at optimum pH.	Bio-acidification caused by bio-oxidation of energy substances during bioleaching is widely known to play an important role in improving sludge-borne metals removal. Here we report that bioleaching also drastically enhances sludge dewaterability in a suitable pH level. To obtain the optimum initial concentrations of energy substances and pH values for sludge dewaterability during bioleaching, bio-oxidation of Fe(2+) and S(0) under co-inoculation with Acidithiobacillus thiooxidans TS6 and Acidothiobacillus ferrooxidans LX5 and their effects on sludge dewaterability and metals removal during sludge bioleaching were investigated. Results indicated that the dosage of energy substances with 2g/L S(0) and 2g/L Fe(2+) could obtain bio-oxidation efficiencies of up to 100% for Fe(2+) and 50% for S(0) and were the optimal dosages for sludge bioleaching. The removal efficiencies of sludge-borne Cu and Cr could reach above 85% and 40%, respectively, and capillary suction time (CST) of bioleached sludge decreased to as low as 10s from initial 48.9s for fresh sludge when sludge pH declined to 2.4 through bioleaching. These results confirm the potential of bioleaching as a novel method for improving sludge dewaterability as well as removal of metals.
The performance enhancements of upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) reactors for domestic sludge treatment--a state-of-the-art review.	Nowadays, carbon emission and therefore carbon footprint of water utilities is an important issue. In this respect, we should consider the opportunities to reduce carbon footprint for small and large wastewater treatment plants. The use of anaerobic rather than aerobic treatment processes would achieve this aim because no aeration is required and the generation of methane can be used within the plant. High-rate anaerobic digesters receive great interests due to their high loading capacity and low sludge production. Among them, the upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) reactors have been most widely used. However, there are still unresolved issues inhibiting the widespread of this technology in developing countries or countries with climate temperature fluctuations (such as subtropical regions). A large number of studies have been carried out in order to enhance the performance of UASB reactors but there is a lack of updated documentation. In face of the existing limitations and the increasing importance of this technology, the authors present an up-to-date review on the performance enhancements of UASB reactors over the last decade. The important aspects of this article are: (i) enhancing the start-up and granulation in UASB reactors, (ii) coupling with post-treatment unit to overcome the temperature constraint, and (iii) improving the removal efficiencies of the organic matter, nutrients and pathogens in the final effluent. Finally the authors have highlighted future research direction based on their critical analysis.
Methane emission during municipal wastewater treatment.	Municipal wastewater treatment plants emit methane. Since methane is a potent greenhouse gas that contributes to climate change, the abatement of the emission is necessary to achieve a more sustainable urban water management. This requires thorough knowledge of the amount of methane that is emitted from a plant, but also of the possible sources and sinks of methane on the plant. In this study, the methane emission from a full-scale municipal wastewater facility with sludge digestion was evaluated during one year. At this plant the contribution of methane emissions to the greenhouse gas footprint were slightly higher than the CO emissions related to direct and indirect fossil fuel consumption for energy requirements. By setting up mass balances over the different unit processes, it could be established that three quarters of the total methane emission originated from the anaerobic digestion of primary and secondary sludge. This amount exceeded the carbon dioxide emission that was avoided by utilizing the biogas. About 80% of the methane entering the activated sludge reactor was biologically oxidized. This knowledge led to the identification of possible measures for the abatement of the methane emission.
pH significantly affects removal of trace antibiotics in chlorination of municipal wastewater.	The effect of pH on chlorination behaviors of 12 antibiotics, including -lactams, sulfonamides, fluoroquinolones, tetracyclines, macrolides, and others at environmentally relevant concentrations was systematically examined in the effluent matrix of activated sludge process. The removal of most antibiotics (except cefalexin and tetracycline) significantly depended on pH in the range of 5.5-8.5. The elimination rates of ciprofloxacin, norfloxacin, anhydro-erythromycin, and roxithromycin increased while that of sulfamethoxazole decreased significantly with the increase of pH. Sulfadiazine, ofloxacin, and trimethoprim exhibited the highest reactivity with free available chlorine under the pH of 6-7, 7, and 7.5, respectively. Not only the free available chlorine species (HOCl and OCl), but also the antibiotics species (cationic, neutral and anionic) affected the overall reaction rate. Anionic antibiotic species are usually much more reactive (1-3 orders of magnitude greater) than cationic antibiotic species toward free available chlorine. Although OCl is a weaker oxidant than HOCl, chlorination of sulfadiazine, sulfamethoxazole, ciprofloxacin, norfloxacin, and trimethoprim with OCl became significant at pH > 7.5. The observed kinetics rate constants calculated from species-specific rate constants could accurately (0.91 < R < 0.99) predict the antibiotic removal in chlorination of activated sludge effluent with similar DOC and ammonia concentration to this study at a given pH value.
Occurrence of pharmaceutical compounds in urban wastewater: removal, mass load and environmental risk after a secondary treatment--a review.	This review focuses on 118 pharmaceuticals, belonging to seventeen different therapeutic classes, detected in raw urban wastewater and effluent from an activated sludge system, a usual treatment adopted for urban wastewaters worldwide prior to final discharge into surface water bodies. Data pertaining to 244 conventional activated sludge systems and 20 membrane biological reactors are analysed and the observed ranges of variability of each selected compound in their influent and effluent reported, with particular reference to the substances detected most frequently and in higher concentrations. A snapshot of the ability of these systems to remove such compounds is provided by comparing their global removal efficiencies for each substance. Where possible, the study then evaluates the average daily mass load of the majority of detected pharmaceuticals exiting the secondary treatment step. The final part of the review provides an assessment of the environmental risk posed by their presence in the secondary effluent by means of the risk quotient that is the ratio between the average pharmaceutical concentration measured in the secondary effluent and the predicted no-effect concentration. Finally, mass load rankings of the compounds under review are compared with those based on their risk level. This analysis shows that the highest amounts discharged through secondary effluent pertain to one antihypertensive, and several beta-blockers and analgesics/anti-inflammatories, while the highest risk is posed by antibiotics and several psychiatric drugs and analgesics/anti-inflammatories. These results are reported with a view to aiding scientists and administrators in planning measures aiming to reduce the impact of treated urban wastewater discharge into surface water bodies.
Removal of methylene blue from aqueous solution using wine-processing waste sludge.	Dye wastewaters usually contain toxins and high chroma, making them difficult to treat with biological methods. The adsorption process plays an important role in removing dyes from wastewaters. This study aimed to explore the methylene blue (MB) adsorption mechanism by wine-processing waste sludge (WPWS). The WPWS contains a high cation-exchange capacity (64.2 cmol(c) kg(-1)) and organic matter (52.8%). The parameters affecting MB adsorption included pH, initial concentration of MB, reaction temperature, particle size and dosage of WPWS. The WPWS adsorption isotherms of MB were only well described by Langmuir adsorption isotherm. The maximum adsorption capacity (Q(m)) of MB was 285.7 mg g(-1) at 25 C. The activation energy determined by Arrhenius equation is 29.995 kJ mol(-1). Under steady-state reaction conditions, the Gibb free energy (G) ranged from -24.607 to -27.092 kJ mol(-1) and H was -8.926 kJ mol(-1), indicating that lower reaction temperature would favor MB adsorption. Therefore, MB adsorption by WPWS was a spontaneous, exothermic and physisorption reaction.
Impact of sewer condition on urban flooding: an uncertainty analysis based on field observations and Monte Carlo simulations on full hydrodynamic models.	In-sewer defects are directly responsible for affecting the performance of sewer systems. Notwithstanding the impact of the condition of the assets on serviceability, sewer performance is usually assessed assuming the absence of in-sewer defects. This leads to an overestimation of serviceability. This paper presents the results of a study in two research catchments on the impact of in-sewer defects on urban pluvial flooding at network level. Impacts are assessed using Monte Carlo simulations with a full hydrodynamic model of the sewer system. The studied defects include root intrusion, surface damage, attached and settled deposits, and sedimentation. These defects are based on field observations and translated to two model parameters (roughness and sedimentation). The calculation results demonstrate that the return period of flooding, number of flooded locations and flooded volumes are substantially affected by in-sewer defects. Irrespective of the type of sewer system, the impact of sedimentation is much larger than the impact of roughness. Further research will focus on comparing calculated and measured behaviour in one of the research catchments.
Anaerobic waste activated sludge co-digestion with olive mill wastewater.	Co-digestion of waste activated sludge (WAS) with agro-industrial organic wastewaters is a technology that is increasingly being applied in order to produce increased gas yield from the biomass. In this study, the effect of olive mill wastewater (OMW) on the performance of a cascade of two anaerobic continuous stirred tank (CSTR) reactors treating thickened WAS at mesophilic conditions was investigated. The objectives of this work were (a) to evaluate the use of OMW as a co-substrate to improve biogas production, (b) to determine the optimum hydraulic retention time that provides an optimised biodegradation rate or methane production, and (c) to study the system stability after OMW addition in sewage sludge. The biogas production rate at steady state conditions reached 0.73, 0.63, 0.56 and 0.46 l(biogas)/l(reactor)/d for hydraulic retention times (HRTs) of 12.3, 14, 16.4 and 19.7 d. The average removal of soluble chemical oxygen demand (sCOD) ranged between 64 and 72% for organic loading rates between 0.49 and 0.75 g sCOD/l/d. Reduction in the volatile suspended solids ranged between 27 and 30%. In terms of biogas selectivity, values of 0.6 l(biogas)/g tCOD removed and 1.1 l(biogas)/g TVS removed were measured.
Increased yield surplus of vetch-wheat rotations under drought in a Mediterranean environment.	This paper presents results of a plot-scale field experiment aiming at the comparative evaluation of agricultural practices and agricultural systems as far as their performance in very-low-rainfall conditions is concerned. Wheat was seeded after common vetch, treated in three different ways, after fallow or after the incorporation of dried sewage sludge or straw. Grain and straw yields and grain characteristics were always compared with conventional wheat monoculture without any additional organic inputs. Results showed a clear positive effect of vetch on next year's wheat yield and an increase in grain protein. Not only did the exceptionally dry season mask this effect, but also vetch-wheat systems were proved to be more effective in restraining wheat yield reductions, which are unavoidable under drought, marking these systems the most promising for improving sustainability and stability of rainfed agriculture.
Bio-augmentation to rapid realize partial nitrification of real sewage.	The feasibility of bio-augmentation processes in promoting start-up of partial nitrification of sewage was investigated in this study. Initially, partial nitrification was well-established in an anoxic/oxic reactor treating high-strength ammonia wastewater. Then the influent was replaced by real sewage instantly or gradually. In both cases, nitrite pathway could be maintained for 5-7d. However, it was eventually destroyed due to the inevitable over-aeration. In another strategy, sewage was treated in the adsorption/biodegradation reactor. The nitrite pathway was obviously promoted by addition of the previous activated sludge from high ammonia wastewater treatment. Nitrite accumulation efficiency of sewage was quickly increased from 26% to 86% and maintained at a high level for 2 months. Moreover, the effluent has a favorable ratio of NH(4)(+)/NO(2)(-) for feeding anammox process. The experimental results indicated that appropriate bio-augmentation strategies could significantly improve the build-up partial nitrification of sewage in the pretreatment of anammox.
Estrogen mediated effects in the Sydney rock oyster, Saccostrea glomerata, following field exposures to sewage effluent containing estrogenic compounds and activity.	The Sydney rock oyster, Saccostrea glomerata, has been demonstrated as a useful biomonitor of estrogenic compounds following laboratory exposures, yet its utility in the assessment of estrogenic exposure and effects under field conditions requires investigation. To achieve this aim, S. glomerata were deployed in Newcastle, Australia in the effluent receiving marine waters of Burwood Beach WWTP (Burwood Beach "near", <50 m from outfall and Burwood Beach "far", 100-150 m from outfall) and reference locations (Redhead, Fingal Island 1 and Fingal Island 2) at depths of 4, 8 and 12 m for six weeks. Effluent receiving waters of Burwood Beach WWTP were found to be a suitable impact location, demonstrated via measurement of estrogenic compounds and activity throughout the deployment. Estrogenic compounds were detected (average of combined solids and liquid fractions) at average concentrations of: 1.42 ng/L for estrone, 0.69 ng/L for 17 estradiol, 3.83 ng/L for estriol (E3), 0.56 ng/L for 17-ethynylestradiol, 64.2 ng/L for bisphenol A, 7.51 ng/L for 4-nonylphenol and 5.93 ng/L for 4-tert-octylphenol. Total estrogenic activity was estimated at 4.48 ng/L EEQ via the Yeast Estrogen Screen (YES()) assay (average of combined solid and liquid fractions). Female vitellogenin gene expression was highest at Burwood Beach locations, yet no significant differences were detected among locations for either sex. Vitellogenin protein was significantly higher (p<0.05) in S. glomerata at Burwood Beach Near compared to reference locations for the 4 and 12 m depths. Increased proportions of females were found at Burwood Beach Near, at 4m depth (p<0.05). Both Burwood Beach locations had higher proportions of mature female gonadal development stages compared to reference locations (p<0.05). Oocyte area was highest at both Burwood Beach locations, but no significant differences were detected among locations. Findings provided further evidence that female S. glomerata may be a suitable candidate species for assessment of effects of estrogenic compounds in Australian waters.
Are standard wastewater treatment plant design methods suitable for any municipal wastewater?	The design and operational parameters of an activated sludge system were analyzed treating the municipal wastewaters in Istanbul. The design methods of ATV131, Metcalf & Eddy together with model simulations were compared with actual plant operational data. The activated sludge model parameters were determined using 3-month dynamic data for the biological nutrient removal plant. The ATV131 method yielded closer sludge production, total oxygen requirement and effluent nitrogen levels to the real plant after adopting correct influent chemical oxygen demand (COD) fractionation. The enhanced biological phosphorus removal (EBPR) could not easily be predicted with ATV131 method due to low volatile fatty acids (VFA) potential.
Particulate matter (PM) exposure assessment--horizontal and vertical PM profiles in relation to agricultural activities and environmental factors in farm fields.	Reports profiling airborne particulate matter (PM) in farm fields, especially during a Class B biosolids land-injection process, are scarce. Thus, this study characterized PM in such a farm field located in northwest Ohio. For comparison, a control farm field with no biosolids application history was also monitored. During 11days of varied agricultural activities, the concentrations of particle mass and number (count) and also metal content were monitored in the study field, and their interactions with environmental factors were examined. The monitoring was performed across the farm field at four heights of 0.5, 1.5, 2.5, and 3.5m from the ground. The overall mean (SD) concentration (g/m(3)) of respirable suspended particulate matter (RPM) was 30.8 (23.1) with means ranging from 15.9 (3.80) during post-tilling Event 1, 19.9 (12.4) during biosolids application to 56.1 (11.7) during post-harvest (including baling) activity. The maximum concentration of RPM (g/m(3)) was 43 during biosolids application, 90 during post-harvest, and 183 during post-tilling Event 2 activities. Overall, 93.7% (8.98%) of the total suspended particulate matter (TPM) was respirable. The levels of RPM significantly (p < 0.01) correlated with TPM and particle counts of ultrafine particles (UFP) and 0.3m particle size. Ambient temperature showed no effect, whereas wind speed and relative humidity had an inverse effect on RPM concentration. Particle concentrations changed minimally during each set of monitoring across the field, except during major activities or sudden weather changes. For particles with sizes of 2, 5, and 10m, the counts decreased with increasing height from the ground and were significantly (p < 0.05) higher at 0.5m than at other heights. The levels of nine metals within particles monitored were well below current recommended occupational exposure criteria. These results suggest that injection of the biosolids into agricultural land provides significant protection against exposure to biosolids particles.
Intermittent high-pressure sequential bioreactor (IHPSB) with integration of sand filtration system for synthetic wastewater treatment.	A pressurized activated sludge reactor with a sand layer installed at the bottom of the reactor for filtration purposes was employed for treating synthetic organic wastewater. The intermittent high-pressure sequential bioreactor (IHPSB) was pressurized to facilitate efficient oxygen transfer under elevated biomass conditions with pressure released periodically, i.e. aeration, for mixing and exchanging air. The sand layer integrated in the bottom of reactor was employed to separate sludge from treated water during the effluent discharging period. The results show that the proposed system can achieve chemical oxygen demand (COD) removal of higher than 90% under COD loading ranging from 3.3 to 14.3 kg COD/m3/day. SS of the effluent is quite stable and is less than 30 mg/L when MLSS is less than 18,000 mg/L. Oxygen transfer in the IHPSB is quite effective. Dissolved oxygen (DO) ranging from 16 to 10 mg/L was achieved with aeration cycle varying from 3 to 15 min. Thus, IHPSB can be quite energy efficient compared with traditional aerobic activated biological systems and membrane biological reactor systems.
Application of the general model 'biological nutrient removal model no. 1' to upgrade two full-scale WWTPs.	In this paper, two practical case studies for upgrading two wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) using the general model BNRM 1 (Biological Nutrient Removal Model No. 1) are presented. In the first case study, the Tarragona WWTP was upgraded by reducing the phosphorus load to the anaerobic digester in order to minimize the precipitation problems. Phosphorus load reduction was accomplished by mixing the primary sludge and the secondary sludge and by elutriating the mixed sludge. In the second case study, the Alcantarilla WWTP, the nutrient removal was enhanced by maintaining a relatively low dissolved oxygen concentration in Stage A to maintain the acidogenic bacteria activity. The VFA produced in Stage A favour the denitrification process and biological phosphorus removal in Stage B. These case studies demonstrate the benefits of using the general model BNRMI to simulate settling processes and biological processes related to both anaerobic and aerobic bacteria in the same process unit.
Thermophilic anaerobic digestion of sewage sludge: focus on the influence of the start-up. A review.	The thermophilic anaerobic digestion (TAD) of sewage sludge has often been found to be less stable than mesophilic treatment. In comparison to mesophilic digesters, thermophilic reactors treating sludge are generally characterized by relatively high concentrations of volatile fatty acids (VFA) in the effluent along with poor effluent quality, indicating a lower level of process stability. However, reviewing the literature related to the procedure for obtaining a thermophilic inoculum, it seems that most of the problems associated with the instability and the accumulation of organic intermediates are the result of the manner in which the thermophilic sludge has been obtained. In this paper, the different options available for obtaining an anaerobic digester operating at thermophilic temperature (55C) have been reviewed. In this light, rapid heating to the target temperature followed by the development of thermophilic microorganisms, which can be determined by VFA dropping to  500 mg acetic acid L(-1) before increasing the organic loading rate (OLR), has been determined the most suitable means of establishing TAD.
Land application of aerobic sewage sludge does not impair methane oxidation rates of soils.	The aim of this study was to measure and compare methane oxidation rates of arable and grassland soils that received 7.5t ha y of noncontaminated aerobically treated sewage sludge for ten years. Arable soils showed generally lower methane oxidation rates (from 6 to 1510 h) than grassland soils (from 26 to 3310 h). Oxidation rate constants (k) of soils amended with sewage sludge were remarkably close to their respective untreated controls, but a soil, that had received a tenfold sewage sludge application (i.e. 75 t ha y), showed a statistically significantly higher k-value. Laboratory addition of up to 1000 mg Pb g soil to this soil did not cause any significant change in methane oxidation, but caused a decrease from 13.9 to 10.910 h in the control soil. Addition of Zn was much more toxic than Pb, with a significant decrease at 300 g g soil rate and an almost complete inhibition at 1500 g g soil rate. Higher resistance was evident of sewage sludge treated soil in comparison to control soil, for both biomass C and CH oxidation activity.
Modeling field-scale vertical movement of zinc and copper in a pig slurry-amended soil in Brazil.	Organic amendments often represent a source of trace metals (TMs) in soils, which may partly leach into the groundwater. The objectives of this study were (1) to validate Hydrus-2D for modeling the transport of Zn and Cu in an Alfisol amended with pig slurry (PS) by comparing numerical simulations and experimental field data, and (2) to model the next 50 years of TM movements under scenarios of suspended or continued PS amendments. First, between 2000 and 2008, we collected detailed Zn and Cu data from a soil profile in Santa Maria, Brazil. Two hypotheses about Zn and Cu reactivity with the solid phase were tested, considering physical, hydraulic, and chemical characteristics of six soil layers. Using a two-site sorption model with a sorption kinetic rate adjusted based on laboratory EDTA extractions, Hydrus simulations of the vertical TM transport were found to satisfactorily describe the soil Zn and Cu concentration profiles. Second, the long-term fate of Zn and Cu in the soil was assessed using the validated parameterized model. Numerical simulations showed that Zn and Cu did not present risks for groundwater pollution. However, future Cu accumulation in the surface soil layer would exceed the Brazilian threshold for agricultural soils.
Response of ammonium removal to growth and transpiration of Juncus effusus during the treatment of artificial sewage in laboratory-scale wetlands.	The correlation between nitrogen removal and the role of the plants in the rhizosphere of constructed wetlands are the subject of continuous discussion, but knowledge is still insufficient. Since the influence of plant growth and physiological activity on ammonium removal has not been well characterized in constructed wetlands so far, this aspect is investigated in more detail in model wetlands under defined laboratory conditions using Juncus effusus for treating an artificial sewage. Growth and physiological activity, such as plant transpiration, have been found to correlate with both the efficiency of ammonium removal within the rhizosphere of J. effusus and the methane formation. The uptake of ammonium by growing plant stocks is within in a range of 45.5%, but under conditions of plant growth stagnation, a further nearly complete removal of the ammonium load points to the likely existence of additional nitrogen removal processes. In this way, a linear correlation between the ammonium concentration inside the rhizosphere and the transpiration of the plant stocks implies that an influence of plant physiological activity on the efficiency of N-removal exists. Furthermore, a linear correlation between methane concentration and plant transpiration has been estimated. The findings indicate a fast response of redox processes to plant activities. Accordingly, not only the influence of plant transpiration activity on the plant-internal convective gas transport, the radial oxygen loss by the plant roots and the efficiency of nitrification within the rhizosphere, but also the nitrogen gas released by phytovolatilization are discussed. The results achieved by using an unplanted control system are different in principle and characterized by a low efficiency of ammonium removal and a high methane enrichment of up to a maximum of 72.7% saturation. 
Life cycle assessment of sewage sludge co-incineration in a coal-based power station.	A life cycle assessment was conducted to evaluate the environmental and economic effects of sewage sludge co-incineration in a coal-fired power plant. The general approach employed by a coal-fired power plant was also assessed as control. Sewage sludge co-incineration technology causes greater environmental burden than does coal-based energy production technology because of the additional electricity consumption and wastewater treatment required for the pretreatment of sewage sludge, direct emissions from sludge incineration, and incinerated ash disposal processes. However, sewage sludge co-incineration presents higher economic benefits because of electricity subsidies and the income generating potential of sludge. Environmental assessment results indicate that sewage sludge co-incineration is unsuitable for mitigating the increasing pressure brought on by sewage sludge pollution. Reducing the overall environmental effect of sludge co-incineration power stations necessitates increasing net coal consumption efficiency, incinerated ash reuse rate, dedust system efficiency, and sludge water content rate. 
Sewage sludge biochar influence upon rice (Oryza sativa L) yield, metal bioaccumulation and greenhouse gas emissions from acidic paddy soil.	Biochar addition to soil has been proposed to improve plant growth by increasing soil fertility, minimizing bioaccumulation of toxic metal(liod)s and mitigating climate change. Sewage sludge (SS) is an attractive, though potentially problematic, feedstock of biochar. It is attractive because of its large abundance; however, it contains elevated concentrations of metal(loid)s and other contaminants. The pyrolysis of SS to biochar (SSBC) may be a way to reduce the availability of these contaminants to the soil and plants. Using rice plant pot experiments, we investigated the influence of SSBC upon biomass yield, bioaccumulation of nutrients, and metal(loid)s, and green housegas (GHG) emissions. SSBC amendments increased soil pH, total nitrogen, soil organic carbon and available nutrients and decreased bioavailable As, Cr, Co, Ni, and Pb (but not Cd, Cu, and Zn). Regarding rice plant properties, SSBC amendments significantly (P  0.01) increased shoot biomass (71.3-92.2%), grain yield (148.8-175.1%), and the bioaccumulation of phosphorus and sodium, though decreased the bioaccumulation of nitrogen (except in grain) and potassium. Amendments of SSBC significantly (P  0.05) reduced the bioaccumulation of As, Cr, Co, Cu, Ni, and Pb, but increased that of Cd and Zn, though not above limits set by Chinese regulations. Finally regarding GHG emissions, SSBC significantly (P < 0.01) reduced N2O emissions and stimulated the uptake/oxidation of CH4 enough to make both the cultivated and uncultivated paddy soil a CH4 sink. SSBC can be beneficial in rice paddy soil but the actual associated benefits will depend on site-specific conditions and source of SS; long-term effects remain a further unknown. 
Copper sludge from printed circuit board production/recycling for ceramic materials: a quantitative analysis of copper transformation and immobilization.	The fast development of electronic industries and stringent requirement of recycling waste electronics have produced a large amount of metal-containing waste sludge. This study developed a waste-to-resource strategy to beneficially use such metal-containing sludge from the production and recycling processes of printed circuit board (PCBs). To observe the metal incorporation mechanisms and phase transformation processes, mixtures of copper industrial waste sludge and kaolinite-based materials (kaolinite and mullite) were fired between 650 and 1250 C for 3 h. The different copper-hosting phases were identified by powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) in the sintered products, and CuAl2O4 was found to be the predominant hosting phase throughout the reactions, regardless of the strong reduction potential of copper expected at high temperatures. The experimental results indicated that CuAl2O4 was generated more easily and in larger quantities at low-temperature processing when using the kaolinite precursor. Maximum copper transformations reached 86% and 97% for kaolinite and mullite systems, respectively, when sintering at 1000 C. To monitor the stabilization effect after thermal process, prolonged leaching tests were carried out using acetic acid with an initial pH value of 2.9 to leach the sintered products for 20 days. The results demonstrated the decrease of copper leachability with the formation of CuAl2O4, despite different sintering behavior in kaolinite and mullite systems. This study clearly indicates spinel formation as the most crucial metal stabilization mechanism when sintering copper sludge with aluminosilicate materials, and suggests a promising and reliable technique for reusing metal-containing sludge as ceramic materials. 
Short- and long-term temporal changes in soil concentrations of selected endocrine disrupting compounds (EDCs) following single or multiple applications of sewage sludge to pastures.	Temporal changes in soil burdens of selected endocrine disrupting compounds were determined following application to pasture of either sewage sludge or inorganic fertilizer. Soil polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon and polychlorinated biphenyl concentrations were not altered. Changes in concentrations of diethylhexyl phthalate (DEHP) and PBDEs 47 and 99 differed with season but concentrations remained elevated for more than three weeks after application, when grazing animals are normally excluded from pasture. It is concluded that single applications of sewage sludge can increase soil concentrations of some, but not all classes of EDCs, possibly to concentrations sufficient to exert biological effects when different chemicals act in combination, but patterns of change depend on season and soil temperature. Analysis of soil from pasture subjected to repeated sludge applications, over 13 years, provided preliminary evidence of greater increases in soil burdens of all of the EDC groups measured, including all of the PBDE congeners measured.
Membrane fouling by secondary effluent of urban sewage and the membrane properties]	The fouling behavior of UF membranes by secondary effluent of municipal wastewater was investigated using both original PVDF membranes and PVA, PVP and PMMA modified PVDF membranes. The results showed that the structure parameters of UF membranes were optimized by blending; PVP and PVA could effectively improve the hydrophilicity and permeate flux of the membranes. The hydrophilicity and structure properties of UF membrane had stronger effect on the anti-fouling properties. Pore plugging resistance was the main reason for the unrecoverable fouling. For UF membranes with stronger hydrophilicity, there was some flux reduction in the initial filtration, which was attributed to the formation of concentration polarization layer. However, this layer can be easily removed and the irreversible fouling index (r(ir)) was 0, thus guaranteeing the membrane a better anti-fouling property. The dense membrane surface could prevent low-molecular-weight pollutants from entering the internal pores of the membrane. For UF membrane with fully developed macropores in the cross-section and loose spongy layer structure, pollutants deposition to membrane internal pores, which would cause membrane pore plugging, could be effectively inhibited. In contrast, for membranes with porous surface and not fully developed macropores in the cross-section, pore plugging was more prone to occur. As a result, flux declined seriously and was difficult to be recovered by physical cleaning, which gave rise to the irreversible fouling.
Cluster analysis for characterization of rainfalls and CSO behaviours in an urban drainage area of Tokyo.	Combined sewer overflow (CSO) from urban areas is recognized as a major pollutant source to the receiving waters during wet weather. This study attempts to categorize rainfall events and corresponding CSO behaviours to reveal the relationship between rainfall patterns and CSO behaviours in the Shingashi urban drainage areas of Tokyo, Japan where complete service by a combined sewer system (CSS) and CSO often takes place. In addition, outfalls based on their annual overflow behaviours were characterized for effective storm water management. All 117 rainfall events recorded in 2007 were simulated by a distributed model InfoWorks CS to obtain CSO behaviours. The rainfall events were classified based on two sets of parameters of rainfall pattern as well as CSO behaviours. Clustered rainfall and CSO groups were linked by similarity analysis. Results showed that both small and extreme rainfalls had strong correlations with the CSO behaviours, while moderate rainfall had a weak relationship. This indicates that important and negligible rainfalls from the viewpoint of CSO could be identified by rainfall patterns, while influences from the drainage area and network should be taken into account when estimating moderate rainfall-induced CSO. Additionally, outfalls were finally categorized into six groups indicating different levels of impact on the environment.
On data requirements for calibration of integrated models for urban water systems.	Modeling of integrated urban water systems (IUWS) has seen a rapid development in recent years. Models and software are available that describe the process dynamics in sewers, wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs), receiving water systems as well as at the interfaces between the submodels. Successful applications of integrated modeling are, however, relatively scarce. One of the reasons for this is the lack of high-quality monitoring data with the required spatial and temporal resolution and accuracy to calibrate and validate the integrated models, even though the state of the art of monitoring itself is no longer the limiting factor. This paper discusses the efforts to be able to meet the data requirements associated with integrated modeling and describes the methods applied to validate the monitoring data and to use submodels as software sensor to provide the necessary input for other submodels. The main conclusion of the paper is that state of the art monitoring is in principle sufficient to provide the data necessary to calibrate integrated models, but practical limitations resulting in incomplete data-sets hamper widespread application. In order to overcome these difficulties, redundancy of future monitoring networks should be increased and, at the same time, data handling (including data validation, mining and assimilation) should receive much more attention. 
Organic matter humification in vermifiltration process for domestic sewage sludge treatment by excitation-emission matrix fluorescence and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy.	Performance of a conventional biofilter (BF) and two vermifilters (VFs, different heights) containing earthworms was investigated for domestic sewage sludge (DWS) treatment. Humic-acid like (HAL) fraction isolated from the influent sludge (IS) and effluent sludge of BF (ESBF) and VFs (ESVFs) were determined the elemental and functional composition, and structural characteristics using various analytical approaches. Results showed that performance of DWS treatment in the VFs was preferable to that in the BF. With respect to IS-HAL and ESBF-HAL, ESVFs-HAL had low C, H and N contents and C/O ratio, and high O, carboxyl and phenolic OH group contents, and C/N, C/H and E4/E6 ratios, and large molecular weight. The excitation-emission (Ex/Em) matrix spectra revealed that an additional peak was found at Ex/Em wavelength pairs of 345/435 nm in ESVFs-HAL. Further, Fourier transform infrared spectra showed that vermifiltration led to the loss of aliphatic materials and carbohydrates, and the enrichment of carbonyl and phenolic OH groups in HAL fractions. Additionally, the increase in VF height seemed to accelerate humification degree of organic matter in the effluent sludge. In summary, vermifiltration is alternate technology for transformation of organic matter into humic substances, and thus improves quality of DWS as soil organic fertilizer.
Sewer deterioration modeling with condition data lacking historical records.	Accurate predictions of future conditions of sewer systems are needed for efficient rehabilitation planning. For this purpose, a range of sewer deterioration models has been proposed which can be improved by calibration with observed sewer condition data. However, if datasets lack historical records, calibration requires a combination of deterioration and sewer rehabilitation models, as the current state of the sewer network reflects the combined effect of both processes. Otherwise, physical sewer lifespans are overestimated as pipes in poor condition that were rehabilitated are no longer represented in the dataset. We therefore propose the combination of a sewer deterioration model with a simple rehabilitation model which can be calibrated with datasets lacking historical information. We use Bayesian inference for parameter estimation due to the limited information content of the data and limited identifiability of the model parameters. A sensitivity analysis gives an insight into the model's robustness against the uncertainty of the prior. The analysis reveals that the model results are principally sensitive to the means of the priors of specific model parameters, which should therefore be elicited with care. The importance sampling technique applied for the sensitivity analysis permitted efficient implementation for regional sensitivity analysis with reasonable computational outlay. Application of the combined model with both simulated and real data shows that it effectively compensates for the bias induced by a lack of historical data. Thus, the novel approach makes it possible to calibrate sewer pipe deterioration models even when historical condition records are lacking. Since at least some prior knowledge of the model parameters is available, the strength of Bayesian inference is particularly evident in the case of small datasets. 
Environmental impact of submerged anaerobic MBR (SAnMBR) technology used to treat urban wastewater at different temperatures.	The objective of this study was to assess the environmental impact of a submerged anaerobic MBR (SAnMBR) system in the treatment of urban wastewater at different temperatures: ambient temperature (20 and 33C), and a controlled temperature (33C). To this end, an overall energy balance (OEB) and life cycle assessment (LCA), both based on real process data, were carried out. Four factors were considered in this study: (1) energy consumption during wastewater treatment; (2) energy recovered from biogas capture; (3) potential recovery of nutrients from the final effluent; and (4) sludge disposal. The OEB and LCA showed SAnMBR to be a promising technology for treating urban wastewater at ambient temperature (OEB=0.19 kW h m(-3)). LCA results reinforce the importance of maximising the recovery of nutrients (environmental impact in eutrophication can be reduced up to 45%) and dissolved methane (positive environmental impact can be obtained) from SAnMBR effluent.
Study of spatial interpolation of soil Cd contents in sewage irrigated area based on soil spectral information assistance]	To acquire the accuracy distribution information of soil heavy metal, improving interpolation precision is very important for agricultural safety production and soil environment protection. In the present study, the spatial variation and Cokriging interpolation of soil Cd was studied in a sewage irrigation area. Fifty two soil samples were collected to measure the contents of soil total Cd (TCd), available Cd (ACd), pH, organic matter (OM), iron oxide (Fe2 O3) and soil reflection spectrum. Through correlation analysis, it was found that TCd and ACd had a significant correlation with soil first-order differential spectrum (-0.585** at 759 nm and -0.551** at 719 nm, respectively), which were much higher than the correlation coefficients between soil Cd contents and other environmental variables (pH, OM and Fe2O3). The spatial patterns of soil Cd were predicted by Cokriging which used soil first-order differential spectrum as covariate. Compared with the Kriging, the root-mean-square error decreased by 8.22% for TCd and 20.09% for ACd, respectively; the correlation coefficients between the predicted values and measured values increased by 27.45% for TCd and by 53.13% for ACd, respectively. Meanwhile, the prediction accuracy improved by Cokriging with soil spectrum as covariate was still higher than by Cokriging with soil environment variables (OM and Fe2O3). Therefore, it was found that Cokriging was a more accurate interpolation method which could provide more precise distribution information of soil heavy metal. At the same time, soil reflection spectrum was shown to be more economic, time-saving and easier to acquire than these usual environment variables, which indicated that soil spectrum information is more suited as a covariate used in Cokriging.
Co-composting as an oxygen stabilization of an organic fraction of municipal solid waste and industrial sewage sludge.	The purpose of this work is to study the characteristics of the co-composting of municipal solid waste (MSW), sewage sludge, grass and sawdust. Differing proportions of biodegradable waste were investigated through changes of temperature, oxygen consumption, organic matters, moisture content, carbon, nitrogen, C/N ratio as well as heavy metals and pathogen microorganisms content. The present study has shown that addition of MSW above 10% had a negative impact on the composting process. The initial C/N of the mixtures with a higher MSW content was below 18. Lower losses of organic matter occurred during composting for the mixture with the highest addition of MSW. Although studies have shown that composting is a good method for the disposal of organic waste additional research is required in order to optimize the organic and nitrogen compounds degradation during the co-composting process. In conclusion, a 1:4:4:1 mixture of MSW:sewage sludge:grass:sawdust is recommended because it can achieve high temperature as well as the highest organic matter degradation and highest N content in the final composting product. The concentration of heavy and light metals in all composts was within the limits of regulation of the Polish Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. 
Searching for storm water inflows in foul sewers using fibre-optic distributed temperature sensing.	A major drawback of separate sewer systems is the occurrence of illicit connections: unintended sewer cross-connections that connect foul water outlets from residential or industrial premises to the storm water system and/or storm water outlets to the foul sewer system. The amount of unwanted storm water in foul sewer systems can be significant, resulting in a number of detrimental effects on the performance of the wastewater system. Efficient removal of storm water inflows into foul sewers requires knowledge of the exact locations of the inflows. This paper presents the use of distributed temperature sensing (DTS) monitoring data to localize illicit storm water inflows into foul sewer systems. Data results from two monitoring campaigns in foul sewer systems in the Netherlands and Germany are presented. For both areas a number of storm water inflow locations can be derived from the data. Storm water inflow can only be detected as long as the temperature of this inflow differs from the in-sewer temperatures prior to the event. Also, the in-sewer propagation of storm and wastewater can be monitored, enabling a detailed view on advection. 
Comparison of different approaches for odour impact assessment: dispersion modelling (CALPUFF) vs field inspection (CEN/TC 264).	Odour impact assessment has become an important environmental issue. Different approaches can be used in order to evaluate the odour impact on receptors, and therefore to regulate it. Among the different possible regulation approaches, the use of dispersion modelling is suggested or required by several national or regional legislations. The wide diffusion of this approach is probably due to the fact that odour dispersion modelling is relatively cheap and results are easily understandable. Another kind of approach attempts to evaluate the odour impact directly in the field relying on a panel of trained human assessors (field inspection). The growing importance of this odour impact assessment method is proved by the current draft of a European Standard (CEN/TC 264), which defines two different methodologies of field inspection: grid measurement and plume measurement. In this study two different approaches were compared, i.e. odour dispersion modelling and field inspection by plume measurement (with specific adaptation for the studied site), the latter consisting in using a panel of examiners for determining the absence or presence of odour downwind relative to the source, in order to evaluate the plume extent. The comparison was based on application of both methods to the assessment of the odour impact of a plant for the composting of sludge from an Italian food industry. The results show that the odour impacts assessed by the two strategies turned out to be quite comparable, thus indicating that, if opportunely applied, both approaches may be effective and complementary for odour impact assessment purposes. 
Energy self-sufficient sewage wastewater treatment plants: is optimized anaerobic sludge digestion the key?	The anaerobic digestion of primary and waste activated sludge generates biogas that can be converted into energy to power the operation of a sewage wastewater treatment plant (WWTP). But can the biogas generated by anaerobic sludge digestion ever completely satisfy the electricity requirements of a WWTP with 'standard' energy consumption (i.e. industrial pollution not treated, no external organic substrate added)? With this question in mind, we optimized biogas production at Prague's Central Wastewater Treatment Plant in the following ways: enhanced primary sludge separation; thickened waste activated sludge; implemented a lysate centrifuge; increased operational temperature; improved digester mixing. With these optimizations, biogas production increased significantly to 12.5 m(3) per population equivalent per year. In turn, this led to an equally significant increase in specific energy production from approximately 15 to 23.5 kWh per population equivalent per year. We compared these full-scale results with those obtained from WWTPs that are already energy self-sufficient, but have exceptionally low energy consumption. Both our results and our analysis suggest that, with the correct optimization of anaerobic digestion technology, even WWTPs with 'standard' energy consumption can either attain or come close to attaining energy self-sufficiency. 
Disinfection of tertiary wastewater effluent prior to river discharge using peracetic acid; treatment efficiency and results on by-products formed in full scale tests.	This is an investigation of chemical disinfection, with peracetic acid (PAA), in a tertiary sand filter at a full scale activated sludge plant with nitrification/denitrification and P-removal. The reduction efficiency of Escherichia coli and intestinal enterococci in the sand filter is reported. E. coli log reductions of between 0.4 and 2.2 were found with contact times from 6 to 37 min and with dosing from 0 to 4.8 mg L(-1). The average log reduction was 1.3. The decomposition products, bromophenols, chlorophenols and formaldehyde and residual H2O2 were measured before and after the sand filter. The residual H2O2 concentration in the effluent was critical at short contact times and high dosages of PAA due to the discharge limit of 25 g L(-1). The other three products could not be detected at 0.1 g L(-1) levels. The chemical cost of PAA dosing is estimated to be 0.039 US$ m(-3) treated wastewater. 
Comparing feed-forward versus neural gas as estimators: application to coke wastewater treatment.	Numerous papers related to the estimation of wastewater parameters have used artificial neural networks. Although successful results have been reported, different problems have arisen such as overtraining, local minima and model instability. In this paper, two types of neural networks, feed-forward and neural gas, are trained to obtain a model that estimates the values of nitrates in the effluent stream of a three-step activated sludge system (two oxic and one anoxic). Placing the denitrification (anoxic) step at the head of the process can force denitrifying bacteria to use internal organic carbon. However, methanol has to be added to achieve high denitrification efficiencies in some industrial wastewaters. The aim of this paper is to compare the two networks in addition to suggesting a methodology to validate the models. The influence of the neighbourhood radius is important in the neural gas approach and must be selected correctly. Neural gas performs well due to its cooperation--competition procedure, with no problems of stability or overfitting arising in the experimental results. The neural gas model is also interesting for use as a direct plant model because of its robustness and deterministic behaviour.
Anaerobic digestion of selected Italian agricultural and industrial residues (grape seeds and leather dust): combined methane production and digestate characterization.	A combined experimental evaluation of methane production (obtained by anaerobic digestion) and detailed digestate characterization (with physical-chemical, thermo-gravimetric and mineralogical approaches) was conducted on two organic substrates, which are specific to Italy (at regional and national levels). One of the substrates was grape seeds, which have an agricultural origin, whereas the other substrate was vegetable-tanned leather dust, which has an industrial origin. Under the assumed experimental conditions of the performed lab-scale test series, the grape seed substrate exhibited a resulting net methane production of 175.0 NmL g volatile solids (VS)(-1); hence, it can be considered as a potential energy source via anaerobic digestion. Conversely, the net methane production obtained from the anaerobic digestion of the vegetable-tanned leather dust substrate was limited to 16.1 NmL gVS(-1). A detailed characterization of the obtained digestates showed that there were both nitrogen-containing compounds and complex organic compounds present in the digestate that was obtained from the mixture of leather dust and inoculum. As a general perspective of this experimental study, the application of diversified characterization analyzes could facilitate (1) a better understanding of the main properties of the obtained digestates to evaluate their potential valorization, and (2) a combination of the digestate characteristics with the corresponding methane productions to comprehensively evaluate the bioconversion process.
Differences in rheological and fractal properties of conditioned and raw sewage sludge.	Rheological tests for raw and conditioned activated sludge (AS) or anaerobic digested sludge (ADS) show that power-law relationships can be used to describe the evolution of several theological parameters, i.e., limiting viscosity (eta(infinity)), yield stress (tau(y)), cohesion energy of the sludge network (Ec), and storage modulus (G'), with total suspended solid (TSS) content in raw and conditioned sludge. A gel-like structure that behaves similar to weak-link flocs/aggregates was observed in AS and ADS. As derived from the double-logarithmic plots of G'-TSS content, the mass fractal dimensions of the raw and conditioned AS or ADS flocs/aggregates were 2.70 and 2.53 or 2.85 and 2.79, respectively. The rheological tests also indicate that both polymer conditioning and increased TSS content led to improved elastic behavior, cohesion energy, and yield stress of the sludge network, as well as expanded the corresponding linear viscoelastic range. The porosity of AS or ADS flocs/aggregates will be improved by polymer conditioning.
The effects of sewage sludge and sewage sludge biochar on PAHs and potentially toxic element bioaccumulation in Cucumis sativa L.	The presence of contaminants such as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and potentially toxic elements (PTEs), including As, Cd, Cu, Pb and Zn, restricts the application of sewage sludge (SS) to agricultural land. This research established that the conversion of SS to SS biochar (SSBC) significantly (p  0.01) decreased PAH and available PTE concentrations. Once added to soil both SS and SSBC significantly (p  0.05) decrease PAH availability. Bioaccumulation of PAHs into Cucumis sativa L. was reduced by both SSBC (44-57%) and (to a lesser extent 20-36%) by SS. Following addition to soil SSBC significantly (p  0.05) reduced available PTEs (except Cd), while SS significantly (p  0.05) increased PTE availability. As a consequence SSBC significantly (p  0.05) reduced PTE bioaccumulation (except Cd and Zn), while SS increased PTE bioaccumulation. These results suggest SSBC to be a candidate for soil amendment that offers advantages over SS in terms of PAH/PTE bioaccumulation mitigation.
Fertilizer and sanitary quality of digestate biofertilizer from the co-digestion of food waste and human excreta.	This research was aimed at assessing the fertilizer quality and public health implications of using digestate biofertilizer from the anaerobic digestion of food wastes and human excreta. Twelve (12) kg of food wastes and 3kg of human excreta were mixed with water in a 1:1 w/v to make 30-l slurry that was fed into the anaerobic digester to ferment for 60days at mesophilic temperature (22-31C). Though BOD, COD, organic carbon and ash content in the feedstock were reduced after anaerobic digestion by 50.0%, 10.6%, 74.3% and 1.5% respectively, nitrogen, pH and total solids however increased by 12.1%, 42.5% and 12.4% respectively. The C/N ratios of the feedstock and compost are 135:1 and 15.8:1. The residual total coliforms of 2.1010(8)CFU/100ml in the digestate was above tolerable limits for direct application on farmlands. Microbial analysis of the digestate biofertilizer revealed the presence of Pseudomonas, Klebsiella, Clostridium, Bacillus, Bacteroides, Penicillum, Salmollena, and Aspergillus. Klebsiella, Bacillus, Pseudomonas, Penicillum and Aspergillus can boost the efficiency of the biofertilizer through nitrogen fixation and nutrient solubility in soils but Klebsiella again and Salmollena are potential health risks to end users. Further treatment of the digestate for more efficient destruction of pathogens is advised.
The effect of the labile organic fraction in food waste and the substrate/inoculum ratio on anaerobic digestion for a reliable methane yield.	Influence of the labile organic fraction (LOF) on anaerobic digestion of food waste was investigated in different S/I ratio of 0.33, 0.5, 1.0, 2.0 and 4.0g-VSsubstrate/g-VSinoculum. Two types of substrate, standard food waste (Substrate 1) and standard food waste with the supernatant (containing LOF) removed (Substrate 2) were used. Highest methane yield of 435ml-CH4g-VS(-1) in Substrate 1 was observed in the lowest S/I ratio, while the methane yield of the other S/I ratios were 38-73% lower than the highest yield due to acidification. The methane yields in Substrate 2 were relatively stable in all S/I conditions, although the maximum methane yield was low compared with Substrate 1. These results showed that LOF in food waste causes acidification, but also contributes to high methane yields, suggesting that low S/I ratio (<0.33) is required to obtain a reliable methane yield from food waste compared to other organic substrates. 
Altered reproductive behaviours in male mosquitofish living downstream from a sewage treatment plant.	Freshwater environments are common repositories for the discharge of large volumes of domestic and industrial waste, particularly through wastewater effluent. One common group of chemical pollutants present in wastewater are endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs), which can induce morphological and behavioural changes in aquatic organisms. The aim of this study was to compare the reproductive behaviour and morphology of a freshwater fish, the mosquitofish (Gambusia holbrooki), collected from two sites (wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) and a putative pristine site). The mosquitofish is a sexually dimorphic livebearer with a coercive mating system. Males inseminate females using their modified anal fin as an intromittent organ. Despite this, females are able to exert some control over the success of male mating attempts by selectively associating with, or avoiding, certain males over others. Using standard laboratory assays of reproductive behaviour, we found that mosquitofish males living in close proximity to WWTP showed increased mating activity compared to those inhabiting a pristine site. More specifically, during behavioural trials in which males were allowed to interact with females separated by a transparent divider, we found that WWTP-males spent more time associating with females. Concordant with this, when males and females were subsequently allowed to interact freely, WWTP-males also spent more time chasing and orienting towards the females. As a result, females from both sites showed more interest towards the WWTP-site males. Male anal fin morphology, however, did not differ between sites. Our study illustrates that lifetime exposure to WWTP-effluents can greatly affect male behaviour. The results underscore the importance of behaviour as a potential tool for investigating unknown contaminants in the environment.
New mechanistically based model for predicting reduction of biosolids waste by ozonation of return activated sludge.	Two pilot-scale activated sludge reactors were operated for 98 days to provide the necessary data to develop and validate a new mathematical model predicting the reduction of biosolids production by ozonation of the return activated sludge (RAS). Three ozone doses were tested during the study. In addition to the pilot-scale study, laboratory-scale experiments were conducted with mixed liquor suspended solids and with pure cultures to parameterize the biomass inactivation process during exposure to ozone. The experiments revealed that biomass inactivation occurred even at the lowest doses, but that it was not associated with extensive COD solubilization. For validation, the model was used to simulate the temporal dynamics of the pilot-scale operational data. Increasing the description accuracy of the inactivation process improved the precision of the model in predicting the operational data. 
The influence of zeolite (clinoptilolite) on the performance of a hybrid membrane bioreactor.	This work aims to investigate the effect of clinoptilolite on the performance of membrane bioreactor (MBR). The control membrane bioreactor without clinoptilolite (CMBR) and the hybrid membrane bioreactor with clinoptilolite (HMBR), in two parallel simultaneous MBRs within long and short term filtration experiments, were studied. Sludge properties, transmembrane pressure (TMP) rise as an index for membrane fouling and nutrient removal from synthetic wastewater in the CMBR and HMBR were compared. In HMBR, sludge properties improvement such as 22.5% rise in MLSS, 7% more accumulation of large particles, reduction of soluble microbial products (SMP) to half of this value in CMBR, no increase in sludge volume index (SVI) and 66% TMP reduced. The results of short term filtration showed that the trend of TMP increase in terms of flux will be slower in HMBR. Improvement of biological wastewater treatment quality and ease of membrane operation are concluded from this study.
Regulation of aerobic granular sludge reformulation after granular sludge broken: effect of poly aluminum chloride (PAC).	The present study focuses on the effect of poly aluminum chloride (PAC) on the re-formation of aerobic granular sludge after its rupture. The morphological changes, physical characteristics such as SVI, mechanical strength and surface properties of aerobic granular sludge during the re-formation process of broken granules were investigated. Moreover, components (protein (PN), polysaccharides (PS)) and distributions (soluble, loosely-bound (LB), tightly-bound (TB)) of extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) in sludge flocs were taken into consideration. It was found that the effect of charge neutralization and bridging induced by PAC treatment improved the surface properties of sludge, the re-formed granules had a larger size, more compact structure and that the removal performance of pollutants after chemical coagulation had improved. The results of correlation analysis demonstrated that PN in EPS correlated well with the surface characteristics and settling ability of sludge flocs, and PAC treatment strengthened the influence, further accelerated the reformation of granular sludge. 
Characteristics of electricity generation and biodegradation in tidal river sludge-used microbial fuel cells.	The electricity generation behavior of microbial fuel cell (MFC) using the sludge collected from the riverbank of a tidal river, and the biodegradation of the sludge by the electricity generation are evaluated. Although the maximum current density (150-300 mA/m(2)) was higher than that of MFC using freshwater sediment (30 mA/m(2)), the output current was greatly restricted by the mass transfer limitation. However, our results also indicate that placing the anode in different locations in the sludge could reduce the mass transfer limitation. After approximately 3 months, the removal efficiency of organic carbon was approximately 10%, demonstrated that MFC could also enhance the biodegradation of the sludge by nearly 10-fold comparing with the natural biodegradation. We also found that the biodegradation could be identified by the behavior of oxygen consumption of the sludge. Importantly, the oxygen consumption of the sludge became higher along with the electricity generation.
Ammonia loading rate: an effective variable to control partial nitrification and generate the anaerobic ammonium oxidation influent.	Anaerobic ammonium oxidation (ANAMMOX) is an innovative process for the treatment of ammonia-contaminated waters. ANNAMOX is usually preceded by a nitrifying step in which ammonia is partially oxidized to nitrite. The effectiveness of the overall process depends on control of the nitrification and creation of a suitable influent for ANAMMOX. In this work, impacts of ammonia concentration and loading rate on partial nitrification and composition of the resulting effluent were investigated in continuous stirred tank (CSTR) and biofilm reactors fed with various ammonia concentrations (17.6-61.5 mM; 299-1045 ppm). Regardless of ammonia concentration, loading rates from 3.1 to 5.4mM/h in the CSTR and 6.4-12.1 mM/h in the biofilm reactor generated effluents with nitrite to ammonia ratios of 1.2 +/- 0.3 (suitable ANAMMOX influent). Under these conditions, the highest ammonia loading and nitrite production rates in the CSTR and biofilm reactors were 5.4 and 2.5 mM/h (HRT: 3.7 h) and 12.1 and 6.5 mM/h (HRT: 1.6 h), respectively. Results reveal that ammonia loading rate can be used effectively to achieve suitable ANAMMOX influent without the need for precise control of dissolved oxygen (DO). Considering the difficulty in regulating DO in large-scale systems and the need for the nitrifying process to be flexible with respect to various ammonia concentrations, the loading rate appears to be a practical option to control partial nitrification. Verifying the range of ammonia loading rates that generate ANAMMOX influent allows operation of the nitrifying step with any level of ammonia in the feed, with the proper loading rate achieved through adjustment of hydraulic residence time.
Struvite formation for enhanced dewaterability of digested wastewater sludge.	One of the main advantages of controlled struvite formation in digested sludge is an improvement in dewaterability of the digested sludge, which eventually leads to lower volumes of dewatered sludge that need to be transported. The effects of the control parameters for struvite formation, magnesium concentration and pH, on digested sludge dewaterability were investigated and are discussed in relation to the efficiency of struvite formation. Laboratory experiments with digested activated sludge were performed in a 20 L batch reactor. CO2 was stripped from the digested sludge using a bubble aerator and magnesium chloride was added to induce struvite formation. The dewaterability of the sludge was determined by gravity filtration tests. In the experiments, either the pH or the molar magnesium to phosphate ratio (Mg:PO4) was varied. The results confirm improved sludge dewaterability after struvite formation. Magnesium to phosphate ratios above 1.0 mol/mol did not further improve dewaterability. The addition of magnesium did not prevent the need for polymer addition for sludge dewatering. An increase in pH led to a deterioration in dewaterability. The best dewaterability results were found at the lowest pH value (pH = 7.0), while stirring the sludge instead of using the bubble aerator. At these settings, an orthophosphate removal of around 80% was achieved.
Assessing combined sewer overflows with long lead time for better surface water management.	During high-intensity rainfall events, the capacity of combined sewer overflows (CSOs) can exceed resulting in discharge of untreated stormwater and wastewater directly into receiving rivers. These discharges can result in high concentrations of microbial pathogens, biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, and other pollutants in the receiving waters. The frequency and severity of the CSO discharge are strongly influenced by climatic factors governing the occurrence of urban stormwater runoff, particularly the amount and intensity of the rainfall. This study attempts to assess the impact of climate change (change in rainfall amount and frequency) on CSO under the high (A1FI) and low (B1) Special Report on Emissions Scenarios of the greenhouse concentration derived from three global circulation models in the north west of England at the end of the twenty-first century.
Septic wastewater treatment using recycled rubber particles as biofiltration media.	Performance of the laboratory-scale recycled rubber particles (RRP) biofilter was compared to a conventional gravel system and a peat biofilter for treatment of septic tank effluent. During the study, the RRP biofilter provided similar or better performance than other systems in terms of organic removal and hydraulic capacity. After the start-up period, RRP biofilter achieved removal efficiencies for BOD5, total suspended solids (TSS), ammonia nitrogen of 96%, 93%, and 90%, respectively, over the range of hydraulic loading rates of 57-204 L/m2/d. On the other hand, the peat biofilter failed hydraulically and the gravel system showed high TSS concentrations in the effluent. RRP provided high surface area and sufficient time for biological treatment. In addition, RRP was observed to provide ammonia adsorption capacity. The results showed that RRP has the potential to be used as substitutes for natural aggregate such as gravel in septic system drainfields. The RRP biofilter can be used as alternative septic systems for the sites where an existing septic system has failed or site conditions, such as high groundwater table or small lot size, are not suitable for the installation of conventional septic systems.
Investigation of sludge viscosity and its effects on the performance of a vacuum rotation membrane bioreactor.	Sludge characteristics of a full-scale vacuum rotation membrane (VRM) bioreactor having plate-type membranes with 0.038 microm nominal pore size and 540 m2 surface area were investigated. The VRM plant is composed of an aeration tank and a filtration chamber. The sludge floc size distribution, as determined microscopically, was mainly between 0 and 100 microm in the filter chamber with very little difference in size distribution between summer (20-25 degrees C) and winter (10-15 degrees C) seasons. Small floc size encountered in the filtration chamber was evident due to excessive shear administered by the rotation action and vigorous agitation by the scouring air. The mixed liquor suspended solids (MLSS) was variable between 5.23 and 14.10 g/L in the VRM tank and sludge behaved plastic. Viscosity ranged between 2.39 and 30 cP in the VRM tank in relation with MLSS concentration and temperature. Above 20 cP inter-plate spaces rapidly clogged leading to major clean-up.
Inactivation mechanisms of pathogenic bacteria in several matrixes during the composting process in a composting toilet.	This study aimed to compare the inactivation rate and the mechanisms of pathogenic bacteria in three matrixes (sawdust, rice husk and charcoal) during the composting process. The inactivation rate was evaluated with Escherichia coli strain and the damaged parts and/or functions were evaluated with three different media. Normalized inactivation rate constant in three media and from three matrixes had no significant difference in each process (pure, 1 month and 2 months). The value in rice husk was relatively increased during 2 months but there was no significant difference. The inactivation rate constants of Tryptic Soy Agar (TSA) and Compact Dry E. coli/Coliform in pure sawdust and rice husk were relatively lower than that of Desoxycholate Agar, but increased in 2 months. This indicated that damaging part was changed from outer membrane to enzymes and metabolisms during the 2-month composting process. In the case of charcoal, only the TSA value in apure matrix was relatively lower than that of others, but it increased in 2 months. This indicated that damaging part was changed from outer membrane and enzyme to metabolisms during the composting process. Composting matrix and composting process did not significantly affect inactivation rate of pathogenic bacteria during the process but affected the damaging part of the bacteria.
The role of activated carbon and disinfection on the removal of endocrine disrupting chemicals and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs from wastewater.	Endocrine disrupting chemicals and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are two important groups of emerging pollutants due to their toxicological and chemical characteristics and their persistent detection in the aquatic environment. Wastewater treatment plants are a significant pathway for their transfer to the water courses. It is well evidenced that these chemicals are only partially removed through biological treatment of wastewater and therefore being detected in secondary effluents. This work focuses on the evaluation of the efficiency of two well-established disinfection technologies (chlorination and UV irradiation) along with UV/H2O2 and powdered activated carbon (PAC) to remove these chemicals from biologically treated wastewater. Based on the results it is shown that appreciable removal efficiencies due to chlorination should be expected for most of the target compounds, whereas this was not the case for ibuprofen and ketoprofen. With the exemption of diclofenac and ketoprofen direct UV irradiation did not efficiently removed target compounds for UV doses usually applied for disinfection purposes. The application of advanced UV treatment through the addition of H2O2 although resulted in increased removal of the target compounds is not sufficient at moderate UV and H2O2 doses to achieve satisfactory removal efficiencies. PAC use resulted in sufficient removal of target compounds although high PAC doses were required for some chemicals. Comparison of Freundlich isotherms of this study with those of other studies, derived employing water samples, suggested that the water matrix along with the target compounds concentration range can significantly affect the outcome of the experiments.
Usual variables and odour concentration to evaluate composting process and odour impact.	Organic waste management by means of composting produces unpleasant odours. The odour emissions of composting piles composed of the organic fraction of municipal solid waste and sewage sludge were monitored and controlled by means of dynamic olfactometry. This technique is used to determine the odour concentration expressed in European odour units per cubic metres (ou(E)/m3). To validate the technique, we analysed both respirometric variables and traditional variables such as total organic carbon and pH during composting. Finally, a dispersion model was used to evaluate the impact of the odour emissions of the wastes on neighbouring areas, not finding any differences in the cases evaluated.
Impact of aerobic stabilization on the characteristics of treatment sludge in the leather tanning industry.	The efficiency of aerobic stabilization on the treatment sludge generated from the leather industry was investigated to meet the expected characteristics and conditions of sludge prior to landfill. The sludge types subjected to aerobic stabilization were chemical treatment sludge, biological excess sludge, and the mixture of both chemical and biological sludges. At the end of 23 days of stabilization, suspended solids, volatile suspended solids and total organic carbon removal efficiencies were determined as 17%, 19% and 23% for biological sludge 31%, 35% and 54% for chemical sludge, and 32%, 34% and 63% for the mixture of both chemical and biological sludges, respectively. Model simulations of the respirometric oxygen uptake rate measurements showed that the ratio of active biomass remained the same at the end of the stabilization for all the sludge samples. Although mixing the chemical and biological sludges resulted in a relatively effective organic carbon and solids removal, the level of stabilization achieved remained clearly below the required level of organic carbon content for landfill. These findings indicate the potential risk of setting numerical restrictions without referring to proper scientific support.
Greenhouse gas emissions from stabilization ponds in subtropical climate.	Waste stabilization ponds (WSPs) are a cost-efficient method to treat municipal and non-toxic industrial effluents. Numerous studies have shown that WSPs are a source of greenhouse gas (GHG). However, most reports concerned anaerobic ponds (AP) and few have addressed GHG emissions from facultative (FP) and aerobic/maturation ponds (MPs). In this paper, GHG emissions from three WSP in series are presented. These WSPs were designed as anaerobic, facultative and aerobic/maturation and were treating agricultural wastewater. CH4 fluxes from 0.6 +/- 0.4 g CH4 m(-2) d(-1) in the MP, to 7.0 +/- 1.0 g CH4 m(-2) d(-1) in the (AP), were measured. A linear correlation was found between the loading rates of the ponds and CH4 emissions. Relatively low CO2 fluxes (0.2 +/- 0.1 to 1.0 +/- 0.8 g CO2 m(-2) d(-1)) were found, which suggest that carbonate/bicarbonate formation is caused by alkaline pH. A mass balance performed showed that 30% of the total chemical oxygen demand removed was converted to CH4. It has been concluded that the WSP system studied emits at least three times more GHG than aerobic activated sludge systems and that the surface loading rate is the most important design parameter for CH4 emissions.
Biodegradation of toluene in a two-phase partitioning bioreactor--impact of activated sludge acclimation.	A two-phase partitioning bioreactor was considered to remove toluene contained in a biodegradable organic phase by activated sludge (AS). The selected solvent was hexadecane. In a first step, the biodegradation of toluene dissolved in hexadecane by AS was examined. In a second step, acclimation of the AS was carried out in order to improve the biodegradation rate. Acclimation improved toluene removal, since biodegradation yield increased from 72% to more than 91%. A total consumption was observed after only 4 days culture with acclimated AS, since the rest of the toluene corresponded to gas leak; while in the case of non-acclimated sludge, losses cannot account for all non-degraded toluene. Regarding hexadecane, acclimation also improved its degradation, from 43% to 79% after 6 days culture for non-acclimated and acclimated AS, respectively.
Fate of nonylphenol ethoxylate (NPEO) and its inhibitory impact on the biodegradation of acetate under aerobic conditions.	This study evaluated the kinetics of nonylphenol ethoxylate (NPEO) and acetate biodegradation at a moderate sludge age by acclimated culture under aerobic conditions. A laboratory-scale sequencing batch reactor was set and fed only with acetate mixture. The system was operated at steady state with a sludge age of 8 days. Following this stage, a mixture of NPEO and acetate was fed to the mixed culture in order to assess the biodegradation kinetics of NPEO and its impact on acetate utilization. A mechanistic model was developed involving model components and kinetic parameters for both substrates. The model was calibrated with parameters such as oxygen uptake rate and polyhydroxyalkanoates. Biodegradation characteristics and kinetics of acetate and NPEO were estimated by using the model results. Evaluation of calibrated model indicated that exposure of NPEO to non-acclimated sludge caused significant inhibitory impact on the utilization and storage of acetate. However, acclimation ofbiomass greatly suppressed inhibitory effects of NPEO on growth process involved in the degradation of acetate.
Optimization of a full-scale Unitank wastewater treatment plant for biological phosphorus removal.	The Unitank process combines the advantages of traditional continuous-flow activated sludge processes and sequencing batch reactors, and has been extensively employed in many wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) in China. Biological phosphorus removal (BPR) of a full-scale Unitank WWTP was optimized by increasing anaerobic time from 80 to 120 min in an operation cycle of 360 min and reducing solid retention time (SRT) from 21.3 to 13.1 d. The BPR efficiency of the full-scale Unitank system increased from 63.8% (SRT of 21.3 d) to 83.2% for a SRT of 13.1 d. When the anaerobic time increased from 80 to 120 min, the net anaerobic phosphorus release amount increased from 0.25 to 1.06 mg L(-1), and sludge phosphorus content rose from 13.8 to 15.0 mgP x (gSS)(-1). During half an operation cycle, the average specific phosphorus release rate increased from 0.097mgP x (gVSS x h)(-1) in 0-40 min to 0.825 mgP x (gVSS x h)(-1) in 40-60 min. Reducing SRT and increasing anaerobic time account for 84.6% and 15.4% in the total increment of phosphorus removal of 1.15 mgL(-1).
Enhanced removal of contaminant using the biological film, anoxic-anaerobic-aerobic and electro-coagulation process applied to high-load sewage treatment.	In order to explore a new treatment process applying to decentralized domestic sewage treatment, and enhance removal of total nitrogen (TN), total phosphorus (TP) and chemical oxygen demand (COD), a novel system integrating anoxic-anaerobic-aerobic (reversed A2O) and electro-coagulation (EC) process was studied, and complex biological media (CMB) was used as suspended carrier for biofilm development. In this work, TN, TP and COD removal performance were investigated with consideration of three major factors, hydraulic retention time (HRT), organic loading rate (OLR) and sludge recycle ratio (SRR). Results showed that (1) The optimum HRT was between 8 and 12 h. The removal efficiencies of TN, TP and COD were about 68%, 95% and 95%, respectively. (2) With the increase of OLR, the removal efficiency of TN increased slowly. But it increased first and then declined for COD and TP removal. Their maximum were attained when OLR was 1.8 g(COD)/(L d), and they were 96% and 93%, respectively. (3) The optimum SRR was 75%. The COD, TN and TP removal efficiencies were about 95%, 72% and 98%, respectively. In this system, the maximum TN and COD removal were achieved in anoxic tank, but it was achieved in aerobic tank for TP removal. The EC bed enhanced the effluent quality, especially the efficiency in advanced P removal. From these results, it was concluded that the new process could be a reliable option for providing excellent effluent quality.
Mesophilic anaerobic co-digestion of sewage sludge and orange peel waste.	Mesophilic anaerobic digestion is a treatment that is widely applied for sewage sludge management but has several disadvantages such as low methane yield, poor biodegradability and nutrient imbalance. In this paper, we propose orange peel waste as an easily biodegradable co-substrate to improve the viability of the process. Sewage sludge and orange peel waste were mixed at a proportion of 70:30 (wet weight), respectively. The stability was maintained within correct parameters throughout the process, while the methane yield coefficient and biodegradability were 165 L/kg volatile solids (VS) (0 degrees C, 1 atm) and 76% (VS), respectively. The organic loading rate (OLR) increased from 0.4 to 1.6kg VS/m3 d. Nevertheless, the OLR and methane production rate decreased at the highest loads, suggesting the occurrence of an inhibition phenomenon.
Dairy wastewater treatment using an activated sludge-microalgae system at different light intensities.	A microalgae-bacteria system was used for dairy industry wastewater treatment in sequenced batch mode in a photobioreactor. The research investigated the influence of two light intensities: 360 and 820 mol m(-2)s(-1) on treatment performances, microalgal cell recovery and dynamics of the protozoan community. Results showed that the light intensity of 360 mol m(-2)s(-1) was found to be insufficient to support photosynthetic activity after the increase of bacterial biomass leading to the decrease of organic matter and ammonium removal efficiencies from 95 to 78% and 95 to 41%, respectively. Maximum microalgal cells recovery was about 63%. Continuous modification in the protozoan community was also noticed during this test. Increasing the light intensity to 820 mol m(-2)s(-1) led to better microalgal cells recovery (up to 88%) and improved treatment performances. However, the decrease of protozoan richness to small flagellates and free-swimming ciliates was noticed. Moreover, the developed protozoan trophic network was found to be different from that identified in the conventional activated sludge system. The study emphasized that high increase of bacterial biomass promoted in nutrient- and organic matter-rich wastewater can strongly affect the treatment performances as a result of the shadow effect produced on the photoautotrophic microalgae aggregates. 
Irreversible fouling of membrane bioreactors due to formation of a non-biofilm gel layer.	Extra-cellular polymeric substances (EPS), known to contribute to fouling in membrane bio-reactors (MBRs), are generally divided into bound and free EPS. The free EPS are able to form a gel layer on the membrane active surface. The mechanisms involved in formation of such layer and its effects on performance of the MBR membranes were studied. The free EPS, extracted by centrifugation and microfiltration, contained a significant amount of humic-like substances. Under static contact to the membrane, adsorption of humic-like substances to the membrane occurred and could be explained by conventional adsorption kinetics. Due to static adsorption, surface roughness of the membrane declined significantly, indicating that adsorbed matters to the membrane filled the cavities of the membrane surface. Filtration of the free EPS caused 50% water flux decline. The fouling resistance linearly increased with the amount of the humic-like substances retained during filtration as predicted by gel growth theory. A low pressure backwash could re-establish the water flux only up to 70%. 
Pollutant removal and membrane fouling in an anaerobic submerged membrane bioreactor for real sewage treatment.	Real sewage was continuously treated by a laboratory-scale anaerobic submerged membrane bioreactor (AnSMBR) for over 160 days. Results showed that around 90% of chemical oxygen demand, and 99% of turbidity and total suspended solids in the sewage could be removed by the AnSMBR system. Membrane flux sustained at 11 L/(m(2) h) was realized with biogas sparging. Small flocs from sludge deflocculation in the early operational period caused a high membrane fouling rate, and the high specific filtration resistance of the cake layer appeared mostly attributable to the osmotic pressure effect. The performance results were also compared with those in the literature for upflow anaerobic sludge blanket reactors and aerobic membrane bioreactors for sewage treatment, demonstrating that AnSMBR could provide a desirable alternative for sewage treatment. 
Combined mesophilic anaerobic and thermophilic aerobic digestion process for high-strength food wastewater to increase removal efficiency and reduce sludge discharge.	In this study, a process that combines the mesophilic anaerobic digestion (MAD) process with thermophilic aerobic digestion (TAD) for high-strength food wastewater (FWW) treatment was developed to examine the removal of organic matter and methane production. All effluent discharged from the MAD process was separated into solid and liquid portions. The liquid part was discarded and the sludge part was passed to the TAD process for further degradation. Then, the digested sludge from the TAD process was recycled back to the MAD unit to achieve low sludge discharge from the combined process. The reactor combination was operated in two phases: during Phase I, 40 d of total hydraulic retention time (HRT) was applied; during Phase II, 20 d was applied. HRT of the TAD process was fixed at 5 d. For a comparison, a control process (single-stage MAD) was operated with the same HRTs of the combined process. Our results indicated that the combined process showed over 90% total solids, volatile solids and chemical oxygen demand removal efficiencies. In addition, the combined process showed a significantly higher methane production rate than that of the control process. Consequently, the experimental data demonstrated that the combined MAD-TAD process was successfully employed for high-strength FWW treatment with highly efficient organic matter reduction and methane production. 
Comparison of diagnostic clinical samples and environmental sampling for enterovirus and parechovirus surveillance in Scotland, 2010 to 2012.	Human enteroviruses (EV) and parechoviruses (HPeV) within the family Picornaviridae are the most common causes of viral central nervous system (CNS)-associated infections including meningitis and neonatal sepsis-like disease. The frequencies of EV and HPeV types identified in clinical specimens collected in Scotland over an eight-year period were compared to those identified in sewage surveillance established in Edinburgh. Of the 35 different EV types belonging to four EV species (A to D) and the four HPeV types detected in this study, HPeV3 was identified as the most prevalent picornavirus in cerebrospinal fluid samples, followed by species B EV. Interestingly, over half of EV and all HPeV CNS-associated infections were observed in young infants (younger than three months). Detection of species A EV including coxsackievirus A6 and EV71 in clinical samples and sewage indicates that these viruses are already widely circulating in Scotland. Furthermore, species C EV were frequently identified EV in sewage screening but they were not present in any of 606 EV-positive clinical samples studied, indicating their likely lower pathogenicity. Picornavirus surveillance is important not only for monitoring the changing epidemiology of these infections but also for the rapid identification of spread of emerging EV and/or HPeV types.
Role of lime treatment in the removal of bacteria, enteric viruses, and coliphages in a wastewater reclamation plant.	Lime flocculation/sedimentation in the first process unit of a 4,500-m3/day wastewater reclamation plant reduced numbers of microorganisms extensively when operated at pH 11.2. The efficiency was much less at lower pH values, and some bacteria even multiplied at pH 9.6. Data on reduction in the number of microorganisms in the lime treatment and subsequent units indicate that inactivation by hydroxide alkalinity plays an important role in the efficiency of lime treatment. Reductions in the numbers of enteric viruses were higher than those of coliphages, enterococci, and total plate and coliform bacteria, which indicate that lime treatment can be monitored by means of coliphage and conventional bacteriological tests. This paper illustrates the valuable role of high-pH lime treatment in reducing the load of pathogenic microorganisms on subsequent units, including ultimate disinfection processes, which is important in the multiple safety barrier concept of wastewater reclamation processes.
Purification of waste water from olive-oil pressing plants using hydrophytes. Preliminary study on the use of Eichornia crassipes]	The use of Eichornia crassipes has been tested in order to depurate the waste water from olive oil factories. The control of some parameter variations during the treatment, such as COD, total azote, dissolved oxygen and pH, has given encouraging results about the depurative efficacy of employed hydrophytae. Particularly indicative is, in this regard, COD rejection of about 60%.
The behavior of viruses in conventional and 2-step anaerobic-mesophilic stabilization of clarified sludge with pre- and postpasteurization]	In a pilot-plant of semi-technical scale for the digestion of sewage-sludge with two single operated reactors and five coupled reactors investigations about the influence of anaerobic mesophilic sludge digestion and pasteurisation of raw and digested sludge on viruses were carried out. Following test-viruses were used: bovine enterovirus ECBO strain LCR-4, bovine parvovirus strain "Haden" and reovirus type I. In the case of a daily addition of virus-contaminated raw sludge both ECBO-virus LCR 4 and Reovirus--with one exception--were inactivated by a conventional single stage sludge digesting process with a mean hydraulic retention time (t/R) of 20 d as well as by a two-stage digesting process with 2 d tR in the anaerobic pretreatment and 8 d tR in the main-digestion process with and without prepasteurisation of the raw-sludge. Bovine Parvovirus was inactivated completely by a single-stage sludge digesting process with 20 d tR and pasteurisation of the digested sludge. All other investigated processes did not inactivate Parvovirus completely.
Inactivation of animal viruses during sewage sludge treatment.	Using a previously developed filter adsorption technique, the inactivation of a human rotavirus, a coxsackievirus B5, and a bovine parvovirus was monitored during sludge treatment processes. During conventional anaerobic mesophilic digestion at 35 to 36 degrees C, only minor inactivation of all three viruses occurred. The k' values measured were 0.314 log10 unit/day for rotavirus, 0.475 log10 unit/day for coxsackievirus B5, and 0.944 log10 unit/day for parvovirus. However, anaerobic thermophilic digestion at 54 to 56 degrees C led to rapid inactivation of rotavirus (k' greater than 8.5 log10 units/h) and of coxsackievirus B5 (k' greater than 0.93 log10 unit/min). Similarly, aerobic thermophilic fermentation at 60 to 61 degrees C rapidly inactivated rotavirus (k' = 0.75 log10 unit/min) and coxsackievirus B5 (k' greater than 1.67 log10 units/min). Infectivity of parvovirus, however, was only reduced by 0.213 log10 unit/h during anaerobic thermophilic digestion and by 0.353 log10 unit/h during aerobic thermophilic fermentation. Furthermore, pasteurization at 70 degrees C for 30 min inactivated the parvovirus by 0.72 log10 unit/30 min. In all experiments the contribution of temperature to the total inactivation was determined separately and was found to be predominant at process temperatures above 54 degrees C. In conclusion, the most favorable treatment to render sludge hygienically safe from the virological point of view would be a thermal treatment (60 degrees C) to inactivate thermolabile viruses, followed by an anaerobic mesophilic digestion to eliminate thermostable viruses that are more sensitive to chemical and microbial inactivations.
Immune electron microscopy in the detection of viruses other than enteroviruses on cell culture in untreated sewage.	Following the demonstration of enteroviruses in samples of untreated sewage by inoculation of cell cultures with an eluate fraction, immune electron microscopy (IEM) was employed in two stages to detect adenoviruses and the hepatitis A virus (HAV). 6/12 samples contained adenoviruses and 5/15 other samples contained viruses having characteristics of HAV. Cell culture can thus be usefully allied with IEM in the more precise determination of the potential health hazards of waste water.
Disinfection of sewage sludge by aerobic thermophilic treatment]	Thermal stabilization of sewage sludge, performed in a pilot plant under aerobic conditions, resulted in microbiological and virological decontamination. A minimum temperature of 50 degrees C was necessary to inactivate coliform bacteria, E. coli and Salmonella sp. The rate of inactivation of these bacteria and enteric viruses was dependent on the concentration of microbes in the raw sludge, the temperature and the detention time of the sludge. At a temperature of 56 +/- 1 degree C, which was achieved by autogeneous heating of the processed sludge, pathogens were usually inactivated after two hours, but the time required for inactivation was shorter when the temperature was higher.
Characterization of virucidal agents in activated sludge.	A comprehensive study was carried out to determine the properties of agents responsible for loss of virus infectivity in mixed-liquor suspended solids (MLSS) of activated sludge. Initial experiments revealed that model enteric viruses (poliovirus-1 and rotavirus SA-11) were irreversibly inactivated in MLSS and released their RNA genomes. Enteric viruses belonging to other genera (echovirus-12, coxsackievirus A13, reovirus-3) were also shown to lose infectivity in MLSS. Although the virucidal activity decreased at reduced temperatures, MLSS still retained significant activity at 4 degrees C. The virucidal agents in MLSS were stable for months at 4 degrees C, but their activity decreased approximately 50% during 4 days of aeration at 26 degrees C. Primary effluent, the nutrient source for activated sludge, also contained virucidal activity. After centrifugation of MLSS, almost all virucidal activity was found in the particulate fraction because of inhibitory substances retained in the supernatant fraction. Decreasing or increasing the solids concentration of the particulate fraction did not increase the virucidal activity of the fraction. The effects of heat and antibiotics on the virucidal activity of MLSS, coupled with the finding that the activity can be produced in autoclaved primary effluent seeded with MLSS, strongly support the conclusion that microorganisms are responsible for this activity. Attempts to characterize the virucidal microbial components of MLSS indicated that treatments that resulted in the inactivation or removal of microorganisms also caused a loss of virucidal activity. Thus, it appears that the virucidal components of microorganisms are either short-lived or active only while bound to the organisms themselves.
Fate of viruses in artificial wetlands.	Little is known about the ability of wetlands to remove disease-causing viruses from municipal wastewater. In this study we examined the survival of several indicators of viral pollution (indigenous F-specific bacteriophages, seeded MS2 bacteriophage, and seeded human poliovirus type 1) applied in primary municipal wastewater to artificial wetland ecosystems. Only about 1% of the indigenous F-specific RNA bacteriophages survived flow through the vegetated wetland beds at a 5-cm-day-1 hydraulic application rate during the period from June through December 1985. The total number of indigenous F-specific bacteriophages (F-specific RNA and F-specific DNA phages) was also reduced by about 99% by wetland treatment, with the mean inflow concentration over the period of an entire year reduced from 3,129 to 33 PFU ml-1 in the outflow of a vegetated bed and to 174 PFU ml-1 in the outflow of an unvegetated bed. Such superior treatment by the vegetated bed demonstrates the significant role of higher aquatic plants in the removal process. Seeded MS2 bacteriophage and seeded poliovirus were removed more efficiently than were the indigenous bacteriophages, with less than 0.2% of MS2 and 0.1% of the poliovirus surviving flow at the same hydraulic application rate. The decay rate (k) of MS2 in a stagnant wetlands (k = 0.012 to 0.028 h-1) was lower than that for flowing systems (k = 0.44 to 0.052 h-1), reflecting the enhanced capacity for filtration or adsorption of viruses by the root-substrate complex (and associated biofilm).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Comparison of methods for rotavirus detection in water and results of a survey of Jerusalem wastewater.	Methods for the detection of viable rotaviruses and rotavirus antigen in water were developed and compared. The methods included laboratory-developed enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) with chromogenic and luminescent substrates, commercial Rotazyme and Enzygnost ELISAs, and an indirect immunofluorescent assay. Of the methods tested, the immunofluorescent assay and the Enzygnost ELISA were the most sensitive for the simian rotavirus SA-11. All of the methods were positive for human rotavirus from clinical specimens. Seeded SA-11 rotavirus was concentrated from water by absorption to and elution from Zeta Plus filters followed by organic flocculation. Interference with the assays by components of the wastewater concentrates was minimal for the ELISAs, although the undiluted organic flocs were cytotoxic for the immunofluorescent assay. A survey of Jerusalem wastewater was carried out over the course of 1 year, and samples were assayed for rotaviruses and enteroviruses. Although enteroviruses were found in almost all of the samples, all samples were negative for rotaviruses. The concentration of rotaviruses in the wastewater was thus below the detection limit of the method used.
Comparative studies of the kinetics of hygienically relevant microorganisms in activated sludge]	Several samples were taken regularly from 14 different activated sludge ponds in 11 municipal wastewater treatment plants (Table 1). During 7 days, the samples were supplied with oxygen continuously by stirring and the following parameters were determined daily in the filtrate and also in the insoluble sludge: total bacterial plate count grown at 36 degrees C; additionally the oxidase-positive bacteria; the gram-negative bacteria grown on MacConkey agar; also the lactose-positive bacteria of these; C. coli; aerobic endospore-forming bacteria; and protozoa. Furthermore, salmonellae were determined in some aerated and non-aerated samples. The sludge index (SI) as the quotient of volume and dry weight of sludge, in addition the optical density of the sludge-free filtrate was measured. The total bacterial plate count, the count of gram-negative rods, and the lactose-positive enterobacteria were found to be reduced in 12 of the 14 investigated series. The amount of E. coli diminished in as many as 13 of the 14 series and the oxidase-positive bacteria dropped in 11 of 13 cases. The concentration of aerobic spore-forming bacteria remained constant or increased. A propagation of salmonellae was observed only under anaerobic conditions in sludge (Fig. 4). An analysis of the bacterial dynamics shows that the propagation of all bacteria occurs mainly in the free water. Also the reduction of bacteria is more in the free water than in the insoluble flocs of sludge (Table 2). Hence it follows that the flocs are not the centres of microbial activity although most bacteria (medium 76%) are attached to them. Moreover, we found characteristic relations between SI and optical density of the filtrate for the different wastewater treatment plants. There is also a positive correlation between the frequency of protozoa in sludge and the SI (Fig. 2). The SI is correlated positively also with the reduction rate of the most groups of bacteria, excluding the aerobic spore-forming bacteria (Fig. 3). This fact shows a conflict of two possibilities. On the one hand, the reduction of bacteria in wastewater is being improved by increasing SI but the deposition of such sludge is poor. On the other hand, sludge with a lower SI is settling better but the removal of bacteria by protozoa is diminished. Altogether, the sedimentation of flocs is the most important step of elimination of fecal bacteria from wastewater. The process reduces the concentration by the factor 10. Therefore, the successive sedimentation of raw sewage and activated sludge is about 10 time more effective than the simultaneous sedimentation.
Quantitative studies of the elimination of Salmonellae by biological wastewater treatment]	The wastewater pretreatment plant of Braunschweig works as a conventional, one step activated sludge plant without primary settling tanks. There were about 37,000 m3 per day of effluent during our investigations. During some months daily quantitative determinations of salmonellae were performed in the raw wastewater, in the activated sludge, and in the effluent. The mean concentrations of salmonellae were in the raw wastewater 2 X 10(5)/l and in the effluent after 11h of aeration and then settling 2 X 10(4) cells/l. The concentrations of salmonellae varied about the factor 10(3) (limits 10(2) to 10(5)). A small peak in the spring, a big peak in the late summer, and a week pattern were observed. The most salmonellae were adsorbed to unsoluble flocs of sludge, about 30-35% of the salmonellae only were found freely in the water and from that about 60% were concentrated round the flocs. Therefore, one step of settling removes about 90% of all salmonellae. In generally terms, the settling seems to be the most important step of removal of salmonellae from wastewater. Furthermore, the rate of removal is depending of the concentration. High concentrations of salmonellae cause a strong reduction and conversely. An immediate removal of salmonellae was observed in about 60%, however, there was a propagation of salmonellae in 30% of all samples, especially under conditions of low aeration, in an anaerobic environment, respectively.
Resistotype heterogeneity of Escherichia coli strains isolated from humans, animals and sewage waters.	The tests commonly used for bacterial identification, especially in the field of microbial environmental analyses frequently do not provide a sufficient strain differentiation. Considering the importance that accurate characterization of bacterial pollution indicators could have as epidemiological tools, this study used a resistogram subtyping method for Escherichia coli as a tentative method of effecting a good monitoring of the environmental spread of this microorganism. The resistance of 313 E. coli strains of different origin (human, animal, sewage), previously identified by standard biochemical reactions, to 8 chemical compounds (inorganic, organic and dyes) and to 7 antibiotics was tested. The results indicated this method has a higher discriminatory power for chemicals than for drugs. Some typical resistotype patterns for E. coli from various sources are described.
Changes in Escherichia coli cells starved in seawater or grown in seawater-wastewater mixtures.	Some metabolic modifications of Escherichia coli cells during starvation in seawater were studied in laboratory microcosms. The apparent die-off of this bacterium under such conditions, as observed by comparing the enumeration of CFU in conventional freshwater media and direct epifluorescence counts, was partially prevented when cells were previously grown in salted organic medium or on seawater-wastewater agar. beta-Galactosidase activity of starved cells disappeared gradually with time, even though some other enzymatic activities, such as that of alkaline phosphatase, increased. Moreover, some modifications of sensitivity to antibiotics, heavy metals, and bacteriophages in seawater- and wastewater-grown cells suggested that the cells undergo structural changes under natural marine conditions. These results provide additional experimental data indicating the possible active adaptation of E. coli cells to seawater.
Distribution of indicator bacteria and Vibrio parahaemolyticus in sewage-polluted intertidal sediments.	The impact of a sewage point source on the bacterial densities in an intertidal mud flat in Boston Harbor, Mass., was investigated. The area, Savin Hill Cove, acts as a receiving basin for a combined storm and sewage outlet (CSO). Preliminary examination of sediments and overlying water at high tide demonstrated that fecal coliforms were present in sediments at abundances 2 to 4 orders of magnitude higher than in the overlying water column. The following bacterial counts were determined from sediments along a sampling transect extending 460 m from the CSO: total bacteria by epifluorescent microscopy, heterotrophic bacteria by plate counts on nutrient-rich and nutrient-poor media, fecal coliforms and enterococci by membrane filtration, and Vibrio parahaemolyticus by a most-probable-number technique with a resuscitation step. Median sediment grain size, average tidal exposure, carbon/nitrogen ratio, and total organic carbon were also measured. All bacterial indices, except for V. parahaemolyticus, declined significantly with distance from the outfall. Multiple regression analysis indicated that tidal exposure (low tides) may affect densities of total bacteria. Fecal coliforms and enterococci were still present in appreciable numbers in sediments as far as 460 m away from the CSO. In contrast, V. parahaemolyticus densities did not correlate with the other bacterial counts nor with any of the environmental parameters examined. These results indicate that intertidal sediments which adjoin point sources of pollution are severely contaminated and should be considered as potentially hazardous reservoirs of sewage-borne diseases.
Determination of the effect of aluminium sulphate on natural microbial coenoses in experiment.	The methods of determining the effect of chemical compounds on the processes of microbial self-cleaning of waters are mainly based on the calculation of the number of indicator microorganisms grown after being incubated on complex nutrient media following exposure of the waters with the substances under study. These methods examine the reaction of specific microorganisms under conditions rather different from those really existing in the water reservoir. The author proposes to use the method of heterotrophic assimilation of CO2 for the determination of the activity of natural bacterial associations in the study of the effect on them of both multicomponent sewage waters of industrial plants and specific chemical compounds. The determination of the values of bacterial productivity according to heterotrophic assimilation of CO2 by natural microbial coenosis was used as the criterion of the effect of the toxicant. Toxicity of the substance under study is evaluated according to its inhibitory effect on the production of natural bacteriocoenosis (test object). Field of application: water toxicology, supervision of toxicity of aqueous media, evaluation of the quality of water. Standard experiment examining the effect of aluminium sulphate on natural bacterial coenosis is considered an example. It has been demonstrated that the effect of aluminium sulphate begins to be felt in concentrations starting from 1 mg X l-1. Statistical analysis of results was carried out by calculating the mean value and confidence intervals. The investigations have shown that application of the method of heterotrophic assimilation of CO2 for these purposes is feasible and of considerable interest with a view to its high sensitivity and precision.
Distribution of total and fecal coliform organisms from septic effluent in selected coastal plain soils.	Distribution of total and fecal coliform bacteria in three Atlantic coastal plain soils in Virginia were monitored in situ over a 3-year period. The soils studied were Varina, Goldsboro, and Beltsville sandy loams. These and similar soils are found extensively along the populous Atlantic seaboard of the United States. They are considered only marginally suitable for septic tank installation because the restricting soil layers result in the subsequent development of seasonal perched water tables. To determine both horizontal and vertical movement of indicator organisms, samples were collected from piezometers placed at selected distances and depths from the drainfields in the direction of the ground water flow. Large reductions in total and fecal coliform bacteria were noted in the perched ground waters above the restricting layers as distance from the drainfield increased. These restricting soil layers appear to be effective barriers to the vertical movement of indicator organisms. The reduction in the density of the coliform bacteria above the restricting soil layers can probably be attributed to dilution, filtration, and dieoff as the bacteria move through the natural soil systems.
Inactivation by ionizing radiation of Salmonella enteritidis serotype montevideo grown in composed sewage sludge.	S. enteritidis ser. montevideo were grown in composted sewage sludge to levels of approximately 10(9)/g. These bacteria were found to be inactivated by ionizing radiation at approximately the same rate (30 krads/log) as Salmonella species in liquid digested sludge.
Quantitative determination of Escherichia coli from faecal coliforms in seawater.	A simple rapid method was developed for counting Escherichia coli in sea water using a membrane filter procedure. Following filtration the membrane filter was incubated on mFC agar medium for 24 +/- 2 h at 44.5 +/- 0.2 degrees C for determination of faecal coliforms. An in situ test for the determination of E. coli was carried out by transferring the membrane filter to nutrient agar containing 4,methyl-umbiliferyl-B-D, glucoronide, followed by incubation for 3 h at 35 degrees C. The E. coli colonies were detected by fluorescence under long wavelength UV light. Extensive biochemical confirmation tests on the isolates showed that all the fluorescence colonies which were either lactose positive or negative were E. coli.
Sewage sludge]	Current knowledge of sewage sludge is reviewed, particular reference being made to the possible effect on the health of herds of cattle. The following measures should be urgently and seriously considered: more effective watching of sewage disposal; assessments on sewage disposals, related to the costs of alternatives; stricter checks on diffuse sources of pollution (refuse dumps, agriculture, etc.); development of long-term views to prevent the appearance of waste matter injurious to health and putting a stop to methods of production in which these wastes are released. The disposal of toxic substances in the environment was reduced by fifty per cent in particular sections during the past five years. When this is chosen as an objective, the Netherlands will be clean in approximately fifty years. In the opinion of experts, this would appear to be a practical approach which can be accomplished by considerable economic efforts. When the thoughtless disposal of toxic substances comes to an end, it will be possible to use sewage sludge in agriculture without this becoming a hazard to the health of animals and man.
Abundance and distribution of Legionellaceae in Puerto Rican waters.	Waters in marine and freshwater areas of Puerto Rico were analyzed for the presence of Legionella spp. by direct fluorescent antibody assay with guinea pig confirmation. Several species, including L. bozemanii, L. dumoffii, L. gormanii, L. longbeachae, L. micdadei, and L. pneumophila, were widely distributed among all sites. Legionellaceae, including L. pneumophila, were found in high densities in water collected in the rain forest from epiphytes in trees 30 ft. (about 9.25 m) above the ground. Both interspecific and intersite variations were significant. L. pneumophila was the most abundant species at all sites, with average densities of 10(4) cells ml-1, very close to the range which is potentially pathogenic for humans. Densities of L. pneumophila were highest in sewage-contaminated coastal waters. These are the highest densities of Legionella spp. ever reported for marine habitats. Densities of L. pneumophila were positively correlated with concentrations of sulfates, phosphates, and pH. A survey of 88 fatal atypical pneumonia cases at a Puerto Rico hospital showed that 15% of the patients had L. pneumophila infections. This study establishes L. pneumophila as a relatively common cause of atypical pneumonia in Puerto Rico and suggests natural aquatic habitats as possible sources or reservoirs of pathogenic Legionella spp. in the tropics.
A phage-typing scheme for Salmonella enteritidis.	For many years phage typing has proved invaluable in epidemiological studies on Salmonella typhi, S. paratyphi A and B, S. typhimurium and a few other serotypes. A phage-typing scheme for S. enteritidis is described. This scheme to date differentiates 27 types using 10 typing phages.
Dealing with spills of hazardous chemicals: some nitrosamides.	Spills of N-methyl-N-nitrosourea, N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea, N-methyl-N-nitrosourethane and N-ethyl-N-nitrosourethane can be decontaminated using a mixture of ethanol and saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution. Spills of N-methyl-N-nitroso-p-toluenesulphonamide, N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine and N-ethyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine can be decontaminated with a solution of sulphamic acid in 2 M-hydrochloric acid. In all cases the nitrosamides are completely destroyed and only non-mutagenic reaction mixtures are produced.
Environmental applications of mass spectrometry.	The 1976 publications reporting organic and spark source mass spectrometric studies on environmental samples were compiled. Emphasis was placed on pollutants identified rather than methods and techniques used, and reports that did not incorporate data obtained by a technique's application were not included. The 349 reports cited vary from those reporting hundreds of identified pollutants to those describing the analysis of only one sample containing one or a few pollutants. The following sample types were not considered to be environment samples: forensic samples, synthetic or 'standards' samples, and samples analyzed for drug residues.
Mobilization of plasmid pHSV106 from Escherichia coli HB101 in a laboratory-scale waste treatment facility.	The mobilization of plasmid pHSV106 from Escherichia coli HB101, in a laboratory model waste treatment facility, by both laboratory and indigenous wastewater strains of E. coli was monitored by transfer of antibiotic resistance characteristics and by detection of pHSV106 DNA sequences in recipient cells. The mobilization was demonstrated to occur under several different treatment conditions, such as different media composition, microbial concentrations, and waste flow rates. The herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase gene was used as a hybridization marker to confirm the occurrence of the transfer. The use of the HB101 (recA mutant) host cell implies that recA functions are unnecessary for the gene transfer.
Detection of Cryptosporidium in water by using polypropylene cartridge filters.	Members of the genus Cryptosporidium are protozoan parasites that cause gastroenteritis in humans and animals and appear to be spread largely by the fecal-oral route. A method was developed for the concentration and detection of Cryptosporidium oocysts in water to assess their occurrence in the environment and potential for waterborne disease transmission. This method was developed by using spun polypropylene cartridge filters. Optimal conditions for concentration, filter elution, filter porosity, and detection were determined. Fluoresceinated monoclonal antibodies were used for oocyst detection. Experiments also were conducted to study the effect of flow rate, low oocyst numbers, and the addition of detergents on recovery and retention of oocysts. The method that was developed was sensitive enough to detect oocysts at levels of less than 1 per liter. Using this method, we isolated Cryptosporidium oocysts from secondarily treated sewage.
Explanations for the acclimation period preceding the mineralization of organic chemicals in aquatic environments.	A study was conducted of possible reasons for acclimation of microbial communities to the mineralization of organic compounds in lake water and sewage. The acclimation period for the mineralization of 2 ng of p-nitrophenol (PNP) or 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid per ml of sewage was eliminated when the sewage was incubated for 9 or 16 days, respectively, with no added substrate. The acclimation period for the mineralization of 2 ng but not 200 ng or 2 micrograms of PNP per ml was eliminated when the compound was added to lake water that had been first incubated in the laboratory. Mineralization of PNP by Flavobacterium sp. was detected within 7 h at concentrations of 20 ng/ml to 2 micrograms/ml but only after 25 h at 2 ng/ml. PNP-utilizing organisms began to multiply logarithmically after 1 day in lake water amended with 2 micrograms of PNP per ml, but substrate disappearance was only detected at 8 days, at which time the numbers were approaching 10(5) cells per ml. The addition of inorganic nutrients reduced the length of the acclimation period from 6 to 3 days in sewage and from 6 days to 1 day in lake water. The prior degradation of natural organic materials in the sewage and lake water had no effect on the acclimation period for the mineralization of PNP, and naturally occurring inhibitors that might delay the mineralization were not present. The length of the acclimation phase for the mineralization of 2 ng of PNP per ml was shortened when the protozoa in sewage were suppressed by eucaryotic inhibitors, but it was unaffected or increased if the inhibitors were added to lake water.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Household hazardous waste in Massachusetts.	Household wastes, when disposed of improperly, are hazardous to health. This paper reports a random digit dial telephone survey of Massachusetts households concerning household hazardous waste (HHW) disposal with a 54% response. Of the automotive oil disposed of by 33% of survey households, 57% was deposited in the ground, sewer, or landfill. Annually by household oil disposal in Massachusetts is estimated to be 8.8 million quarts. Four percent of hazardous waste generated in Massachusetts is from households. Improper disposal makes it a major environmental contaminant. More households (41.5%) in smaller communities disposed of oil compared with 26% of households in larger communities. Paint and pesticides were disposed of by 10% of the households, but were dumped on the ground sewer or landfills more than 90% of the time.
Microbial desulfonation of substituted naphthalenesulfonic acids and benzenesulfonic acids.	Sulfur-limited batch enrichment cultures containing one of nine multisubstituted naphthalenesulfonates and an inoculum from sewage yielded several taxa of bacteria which could quantitatively utilize 19 sulfonated aromatic compounds as the sole sulfur source for growth. Growth yields were about 4 kg of protein per mol of sulfur. Specific degradation rates were about 4 to 14 mu kat/kg of protein. A Pseudomonas sp., an Arthrobacter sp., and an unidentified bacterium were examined. Each desulfonated at least 16 aromatic compounds, none of which served as a carbon source. Pseudomonas sp. strain S-313 converted 1-naphthalenesulfonic acid, 2-naphthalenesulfonic acid, 5-amino-1-naphthalenesulfonic acid, benzenesulfonic acid, and 3-aminobenzenesulfonic acid to 1-naphthol, 2-naphthol, 5-amino-1-naphthol, phenol, and 3-aminophenol, respectively. Experiments with 18O2 showed that the hydroxyl group was derived from molecular oxygen.
Identification of dimethyl disulfide-forming bacteria isolated from activated sludge.	Twenty-four strains with high dimethyl disulfide (DMDS)-forming ability were isolated from activated sludge and identified to the genus level. These bacteria were classified into four groups (A, B, C, and D) by the API ZYM System (API System S.A., Montalieu, France). Group A (three strains) was identified as genus Lactobacillus by the API 20B System, by the method of Cowan and Steel, and by production of lactic acid as confirmed by gas-liquid chromatography. Group B (eight strains) was identified as genus Corynebacterium by API 20B and the Cowan and Steel method. Group C (one strain) was suggested to belong to genus Corynebacterium by the API 20B System. Group D (12 strains) was identified as genus Pseudomonas or Alcaligenes by the API 20B System, as genus Alcaligenes by the Cowan and Steel method, and as Achromobacter group Vd by the API 20NE System. However, on the basis of guanine-plus-cytosine contents in DNA and form of flagella, these strains were identified as genus Pseudomonas. Formation of DMDS from DL-methionine and S-methyl-L-cysteine was tested. DMDS-forming bacteria isolated from activated sludge formed DMDS from both precursors. In genus Pseudomonas, P. aeruginosa could not form DMDS from either precursor, but P. acidovorans, P. alcaligenes, P. pseudoalcaligenes, and P. testosteroni formed DMDS. In genus Alcaligenes, A. denitrificans subsp. xylosoxydans, A. denitrificans subsp. denitrificans, A. faecalis, and A. odorans formed DMDS from both precursors. Achromobacter group Vd formed DMDS from S-methyl-L-cysteine, but could not from DL-methionine.
Bacteriophages active against Bacteroides fragilis in sewage-polluted waters.	Twelve strains of different Bacteroides species were tested for their efficiency of detection of bacteriophages from sewage. The host range of several isolated phages was investigated. The results indicated that there was a high degree of strain specificity. Then, by using Bacteroides fragilis HSP 40 as the host, which proved to be the most efficient for the detection of phages, feces from humans and several animal species and raw sewage, river water, water from lagoons, seawater, groundwater, and sediments were tested for the presence of bacteriophages that were active against B. fragilis HSP 40. Phages were detected in feces of 10% of the human fecal samples tested and was never detected in feces of the other animal species studied. Moreover, bacteriophages were always recovered from sewage and sewage-polluted samples of waters and sediments, but not from nonpolluted samples. The titers recovered were dependent on the degree of pollution in analyzed waters and sediments.
Anaerobic degradation of phenol by pure cultures of newly isolated denitrifying pseudomonads.	From various oxic or anoxic habitats several strains of bacteria were isolated which in the absence of molecular oxygen oxidized phenol to CO2 with nitrate as the terminal electron acceptor. All strains grew in defined mineral salts medium; two of them were further characterized. The bacteria were facultatively anaerobic Gram-negative rods; metabolism was strictly oxidative with molecular oxygen, nitrate, or nitrite as electron acceptor. The isolates were tentatively identified as pseudomonads. Besides phenol many other benzene derivatives like cresols or aromatic acids were anaerobically oxidized in the presence of nitrate. While benzoate or 4-hydroxybenzoate was degraded both anaerobically and aerobically, phenol was oxidized under anaerobic conditions only. Reduced alicyclic compounds were not degraded. Preliminary evidence is presented that the first reaction in anaerobic phenol oxidation is phenol carboxylation to 4-hydroxybenzoate.
A new serovar mogdeni of serogroup Tarassovi of Leptospira interrogans isolated from a sewage plant in England.	Among 30 strains of leptospires isolated from samples of sewage taken before and during treatment at two sewage plants in England, only one appeared to belong to Leptospira interrogans, the species that comprises the leptospires that are pathogenic to man and animals. That strain, Compton 746, was isolated from settled sewage, before treatment at a treatment plant that deals mainly with human sewage. It was shown serologically to belong to serogroup Tarassovi and appears to represent a new serovar that has been named mogdeni after the name of the sewage plant, Mogden, from which it was isolated.
Bacteria of the genus Acinetobacter. Their systematics and ecological analysis]	The content of A. lwoffi and A. calcoaceticus in water and sewage has been determined. A considerable prevalence of A. lwoffi in both objects has been revealed. The most definite results have been obtained with the use of selective media: ethanol-ammonium medium and Baumann's modified nitrate-acetate medium. The seasonal dynamics of both species in water has been determined, the peak being observed in June and the decrease (and with A. calcoaceticus even disappearance), in August.
Clostridium perfringens in the environment.	Clostridium perfringens was isolated from samples collected in Puget Sound in the state of Washington and areas considered as possible sources of these organisms to Puget Sound. The distribution of C. perfringens in the total Clostridium population was determined for fish gut contents and sediments collected in highly polluted and less polluted areas, sewage samples, freshwater sediments, and soils. The greatest numbers of C. perfringens were obtained from marine sediments collected near the sewage outfall at West Point. Fewer isolates were made from fish collected from less polluted stations, although the number of C. perfringens remained high in sediments from other Puget Sound stations. The proportion of C. perfringens in the total Clostridium populations varied between 56 and 71% for sewage samples and only 0.4 to 4.1% for freshwater sediments and soil samples. Only 25 C. perfringens isolates out of 137 from fish guts, or 18%, were identifiable serologically and these fell into 12 groups. C. perfringens were fed to fish and the fish were sacrificed after varying lengths of time. The number of C. perfringens increased slightly in the gut during the first 24 h and then the numbers decreased rapidly for the next 120 h.
Acetylene reduction (nitrogen fixation) by pulp and paper mill effluents and by Klebsiella isolated from effluents and environmental situations.	High rates of acetylene (C(2)H(2)) reduction (nitrogenase activity) were observed in woodroom effluent from a neutral sulfite semi-chemical mill under aerobic (up to 644 nmol of C(2)H(4) produced per ml per h) and under anaerobic (up to 135 nmol of C(2)H(4) produced per ml per h) conditions. Pasteurized effluent developed C(2)H(2) reduction activity when incubated under anaerobic but not under aerobic conditions. Activities were increased by addition of 0.5 to 3.0% glucose or xylose. Enrichment and enumeration studies showed that N(2)-fixing Azotobacter and Klebsiella were abundant, and N(2)-fixing Bacillus was present. Of 129 isolates of Klebsiella from pulp mills, lakes, rivers, and drainage and sewage systems, 32% possessed nitrogen-fixing ability.
Isolation of Salmonella enteritidis serotype Agona from eutrophic regions of a freshwater lake.	Salmonella enteritidis serotype Agona, which is associated with animal feeds containing fish meal, was isolated consistently from waters influenced by sewage containing poultry processing wastes.
Sewage treatment by controlled eutrophication: bacterial study.	Several groups of bacteria were isolated and identified in an evaluation of the microbiological properties of a sewage treatment system involving the process of controlled eutrophication in a marine setting (J. G. Songer, N. M. Trieff, R. F. Smith, and D. Grajcer, 1974). Fecal coliforms, enterococci, Salmonellae, Shigellae, Vibrio parahaemolyticus, and Vibrio alginolyticus were studied at three stages of the treatment process. Significant reductions in fecal coliforms (P < 0.01) and enterococci (P < 0.01) were noted from raw sewage to effluent. Salmonellae and Shigellae were not detected at any stage, nor was V. parahaemolyticus. V. alginolyticus was isolated from the effluent only, reflecting the halophilic nature of the organism; low concentrations in raw sewage increased in the more saline effluent. Brine shrimp (Artemia salina), the herbivores in this system, were tested and found to have extremely low numbers of the organisms under study associated with them. Findings point further toward the use of this system as a combined mariculture-sewage treatment facility.
Growth of indigenous organisms in aerated filtrate of feedlot waste.	Filtrates from feedlot waste were incubated under aerobic conditions to evaluate the availability of nutrients for cell production and to assess the capacity of indigenous flora to produce stabilized effluents. Incubation was carried out in 9-liter aerated jar fermentors. Three-fourths of the organic material and one-third of the nitrogen were taken up in 4 days; 90% utilization of organic material and nitrogen required almost a month. Acid was produced initially, but aerated liquid thereafter rapidly became alkaline. With pH controlled at 7.0, a comparable pattern of carbon utilization occurred, but nitrogen was incompletely used. The numerically dominant organisms in the waste inoculum were almost immediately displaced by an emergent population of a few types of organisms not originally evident. Maximal viable populations of 10(9) to 3 x 10(9) cells/ml were obtained in aerated waste liquid within 48 h; subsequently, numbers declined quickly to initial levels. Numbers of fungi, yeasts, and streptomycetes slowly increased but never exceeded their initial concentration by more than tenfold.
Biotin production and utilization in a sewage treatment lagoon.	Biotin, in a sewage oxidation lagoon also receiving potato processing wastes, was observed to increase two logs during the summer period of waste stabilization and then to decline to near earlier concentrations. Three organisms, Aerobacter aerogenes, Chlorella vulgaris, and Thiocapsa floridana, were at least partially responsible for these fluctuations; the latter two organisms were associated with biotin utilization and the former with biotin production. Since copious quantities of biotin are produced in these waste treatment facilities, the vitamin may act as a useful indicator of microbial action on certain organic molecules, especially in domestic and industrial wastes such as those from municipalities and potato and sugar beet processing plants. Furthermore, the presence of biotin in rivers and streams may be indicative of the discharge of incompletely stabilized wastes from these sources.
Effects of multiple use on water quality of high-mountain watersheds: bacteriological investigations of mountain streams.	Bacteriological studies in 1968 and 1969 corroborated earlier findings that a municipal watershed which had been closed to public entry since 1917 yielded water with four to six times the coliform count found in an adjacent mountain watershed open to recreational activities. Similarly, chemical investigations showed higher concentrations of most ions in water from the closed area. Physiological differentiation of coliform and enterococcal bacteria revealed similar types of organisms in both animal droppings and stream water, with fecal coliforms accounting for as much as 70% of the coliform counts observed in the closed area in 1969. Opening of the closed drainage for limited recreation and expanded logging operations in the spring of 1970 coincided with an unexpected decrease in bacterial contamination of that stream. It is postulated that these human activities drove from the watershed a large wild animal population which had contributed substantially to the previous bacterial pollution. It would seem that the practice of closing high-mountain watersheds to public entry is questionable if governmental standards for water quality are to be met, and it also seems that the standards themselves should be reexamined.
Control of growth rate by initial substrate concentration at values below maximum rate.	The hyperbolic relationship between specific growth rate, mu, and substrate concentration, proposed by Monod and used since as the basis for the theory of steady-state growth in continuous-flow systems, was tested experimentally in batch cultures. Use of a Flavobacterium sp. exhibiting a high saturation constant for growth in glucose minimal medium allowed direct measurement of growth rate and substrate concentration throughout the growth cycle in medium containing a rate-limiting initial concentration of glucose. Specific growth rates were also measured for a wide range of initial glucose concentrations. A plot of specific growth rate versus initial substrate concentration was found to fit the hyperbolic equation. However, the instantaneous relationship between specific growth rate and substrate concentration during growth, which is stated by the equation, was not observed. Well defined exponential growth phases were developed at initial substrate concentrations below that required for support of the maximum exponential growth rate and a constant doubling time was maintained until 50% of the substrate had been used. It is suggested that the external substrate concentration initially present "sets" the specific growth rate by establishing a steady-state internal concentration of substrate, possibly through control of the number of permeation sites.
Effect of chemical structure on the biodegradability of aliphatic acids and alcohols.	Sewage microorganisms readily degraded unsubstituted aliphatic acids, but the rate of decomposition was much slower with substituted acids as substrates. The type, number, and position of the substituents governed the rate of the oxidation. A single halogen, particularly if on the alpha-carbon, decreased the rate of biodegradation, but the dihalogenated compounds tested were especially resistant. Dimethyl-substituted aliphatic acids and alcohols were also poorly utilized. Bacteria unable to grow on certain brominated fatty acids were capable of oxidizing and dehalogenating omega- but not alpha-bromoaliphatic acids.
Growth of Prototheca isolates on n-hexadecane and mixed-hydrocarbon substrate.	Prototheca zopfii, an achlorphyllous alga, was capable of using hydrocarbons as sole carbon and energy source. The ability of P. zopfii to use hydrocarbons did not correlate with source of isolation. Seventy-five percent of the P. zopfii cultures recovered from sewage, plants, or animals utilized hydrocarbons. Other Prototheca species and P. zopfii that did not utilize hydrocarbons were isolated simultaneously from several sources with isolates that did use hydrocarbons. Species type rather than source of isolation was the predominant factor that determined hydrocarbon utilization.
Malachite green-INT (MINT) method for determining active bacteria in sewage.	A membrane filtration method was developed to determine the proportion of active (respiring) bacteria at various stages of sewage treatment. Samples were incubated in the presence of 2-(p-iodophenyl)-3-(p-nitrophenyl)-5-phenyl tetrazolium chloride (INT) and, after fixation, passed through membrane filters. Filters were counterstained with malachite green and then were examined by bright-field microscopy. The contrast between bacteria and the filter background was greatly improved by drying and then clearing the filter before counterstaining. By this method, it was found that active bacterial fractions in raw sewage, settled sewage, and secondary effluent were 40, 29, and 58%, respectively, whereas the proportion of respiring bacteria in chlorinated secondary effluent was 6.1%. The active bacterial fraction of activated sludge was found to be 16%. The proposed method represents a significant improvement in speed and simplicity over existing methods for determining active bacteria in sewage.
The quality of protein from algae used in the purification of wastewater from the nitrogen fertilizer industry.	This paper presents the quantities and amino acid composition of proteins from Chlorella vulgaris, Scenedesmus obliquus and Stichococcus bacillaris used in purification experiments on wastewater from the Nitrogen Fertilizer Factory in Chorzw. The quantities of exogenous amino acids of the investigated algae and "ideal protein" standard of the FAO are compared. The protein from Scenedesmus and Chlorella appeared to be richer in exogenous amino acids than the FAO standard. Stichococcus bacillaris has a lower content of exogenous amino acids but nevertheless has a high content of threonine and lysine, higher than in the other investigated algae.
Viruses in sewage as an indicator of their presence in the community.	The results of a three year study of the viruses isolated from sewage by means of five tissue culture types are reported. The enteroviruses identified demonstrated a seasonal pattern which was similar to that of clinical isolates. Echoviruses and coxsackieviruses displayed a changing pattern of dominant serotypes in both sewage and clinical isolates; echovirus 6, 19, 3 and coxsackievirus B4, B5, A9 successively became the most common serotypes. The poliovirus in sewage was all vaccine-like in character. Reovirus, type 2 was abundant; adenovirus, of several serotypes, were the least often identified.
Presence of polioviruses and other enteral viruses in sewage: a survey in the Czech Socialistic Republic 1969-1976.	Monitoring polioviruses in sewage is a permanent task within the poliomyelitis vaccination control programme in Czechoslovakia. The results of sewage examination in certain localities of the CSR in the years 1969 to 1976 are reported. During the study years, nearly 3600 samples of sewage were examined. The yield was about 9 percent of samples positive for polioviruses and 22 per cent of samples positive for other viruses. The virus positivity rate was roughly the same in samples from municipal sewers and samples from children's facilities. The majority of polioviruses were detected within 3 to 4 months after mass vaccination campaigns, which in Czechoslovakia are carried out in spring. In some years types 2 and 3 polioviruses tended to occur in later months after vaccination as well. Antigenic characterization of the polioviruses isolated in Prague showed that polioviruses possessing an rct+ marker and antigenically related but not identical with the original vaccine strains were sometimes present late during the intervals between vaccination campaigns. It may be assumed that vaccine strains which have been in circulation for sufficiently long time are subject to a gradual change or that vaccine-like strains have been imported.
Inactivation of enteroviruses in sewage with ozone]	The study of ozone inactivation of enteroviruses in sewage showed the presence in sewage of suspensions of organic origin and bacterial flora to influence the rate of inactivation. The inactivation rate of poliomyelitis virus in sewage free from organic suspension and bacterial flora was significantly higher than that in sewage containing such suspension and bacterial flora. The inactivation rate of enteroviruses was found not to depend upon the protein and salt composition and pH of sewage or strain appurtenance of viruses. The inactivation rate of enteroviruses directly depended upon the dose of ozone and time of contact with it. Differences in the resistance of different types of poliomyelitis virus, ECHO and Coxsackie viruses to the effect of ozone are likely exist. These differences are manifested within the range of relatively small doses of ozone. E. coli is more resistant to ozone than entero-viruses. The results of laboratory studies were used to choose the regimen of sanitation of urban sewage to be used in technological cycles of industrial enterprises.
Efficiency of current technics for the isolation of viruses in water]	In an attempt to evaluate the efficiency of the current methodology for the concentration of viruses from water and wastewater, we have determined the viral concentration in raw sewage using three procedures: a) inoculation of cell cultures directly with the filtered sewage, b) concentration of the viruses from the sewage using nitrocellulose filters at a pH of 3.5 in the presence of AlCl3, followed by elution with Nutrient Broth and inoculation of the cell cultures with the eluant and c) flocculation of the Nutrient Broth after the elution as in b, dissolution of the precipitate in cell medium and inoculation of the cell cultures with this solution. The results show that this concentration procedure with nitrocellulose filters as recommended in the "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater" has an efficiency of 33% if compared with the direct inoculation. In a separate study, we have looked at the properties of electropositive Filters to bind polioviruses Typ I, Strain Lsc 2ab at neutral pH in the absence of salt. These filters, which could be used several times, were able to retain more then 99.5% of the viruses. However, they bound the viruses stronger that nitrocellulose filters and the elution with Nutrient Broth was never complete. After the problems with the elution are solved, these filters promise to simplify substantially the procedure for concentrating viruses from water.
Comparative study on methods to recover indigenous viruses from samples of activated sewage sludge]	Samples of activated sewage sludge were investigated for their contents of indigenous enteric viruses. Therefore sewage sludge solids were collected by centrifugation and the embedded viruses eluted by blending (Waring blendor), glycine buffer (0.05 M) treatment at pH 11.5 or Freon1 treatment. Eluted viruses were concentrated on microfiberglass filters ("Balston" filters) at pH 3.5 or by flocculation with beef extract (3%, pH 3.5). Simple blending of the activated sludge was found being not very efficient, while the other two methods gave better results in freeing the viruses from the sewage flocs. Usually highest virus titers were obtained after glycine treatment and concentration with Balston filters. Freon treatment of activated sewage sludge produces aqueous supernatants containing much denaturated floc material which seems to cause a certain number of viruses to remain in the supernatant after flocculation.
A multiple extraction--centrifugation method for the recovery of viruses from waste water treatment plant effluents and sludges.	Absorption of 14C-labelled poliovirus-2 to sedimentable solids of primary sludge samples collected from a secondary treatment facility during a 6-month period averaged 94%; for anaerobically digested sludge, 99%. The extent of virus adsorption was influenced by the amount of solids. Maximal adsorption occurred at or above 0.5% solids with sludge diluted with deionized water and above 1.5% solids when diluted with the respective particle-free sludge supernatants. A Tris-HCl buffer containing NaCl, glycerol, and serum was found to efficiently elute poliovirus-2 from primary sludge solids. By means of re-extraction and concentration by centrifugation (the TEC procedure), the average recoveries of poliovirus-2 were 92-94% based upon either infectivity or radioactivity analyses. Similarly, recoveries were 90-92% for poliovirus-2 in digested sludge. Maximum elution was dependent upon all four TEC buffer components and the restriction of solids to less than or equal to 1.0%. The procedure was found to be more efficient than glycine-NaOH and Freon procedures or elution with beef embryo extract. As adapted for effluents the procedure increased the yield and improved the consistency of virus recovery. The arithmetic mean titers and obtained during a monitoring study for primary and digested sludge were 4.2 X 10(5) and 5.1 X 10(3) plaque-forming units (pfu)/L; for primary, secondary, and final effluents 2.3 X 10(5), 4.7 X 10(3), and 4.7 X 10(2) pfu/L, respectively.
Microbiological studies of PVC packing sheets and sediments from a wet cooling tower]	On surface of PVC packing sheets in wet cooling towers thick sediment layers can often be observed (Fig. 1) which usually cause several technological troubles. Microbiological investigations were made in order to estimate whether some hygienic risk possibly based on the proliferation of hygienic relevant microorganisms in the sediment have to be considered. An abundance of bacteria actinomycetes and fungi was found in the sediments from PVC packing sheets which were exposed for 6 or 20 weeks in a wet cooling tower (Table 2). However, the microbial (colony) counts usually decreased when the exposition time increased. Pseudomonas aeruginosa was not detected at all. Coliform bacteria and Escherichia coli showed a declining development both in the sediment and in the cooling water unter test (Table 3). Total volume of plankton also decreased in cooling water incubated with small pieces of PVC packing sheets. The results indicate the sediment formation on PVC packing sheets in wet cooling towers probably not to be problem of environmental hygiene but technology. The sediment formation seems to depend mainly of the quality (i.e. pollution degree) of cooling water and also of surface properties of the packing sheets.
The handling of animal wastes.	Most farm problems with animal wastes occur in modern intensive livestock enterprises where manure is handled as a slurry. It is not practical to treat slurry in the same way as domestic sewage: it should be used on land as a source of plant nutrients. On most farms, this can be done only at certain times of the year and so slurry has to be stored. Storage gives rise to problems of mixing, handling, application, pollution, smell and pathogen survival which can often be solved by separating slurry with special machinery into solid and liquid fractions. Where odour is a serious problem, however, some form of limited aeration will usually provide the best solution. For intensive pig units on limited land close to houses, the NIAE has evolved a new system of slurry treatment which can convert all the slurry from a fattening piggery into inoffensive solids. When incorporated into a piggery for 500 pigs being planned by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, the system should also reduce smell substantially both inside and outside the building.
A study of the susceptibility of cattle to oral infection by salmonellas contained in raw sewage sludge.	Raw sewage sludge, containing up to 10(5) naturally occuring salmonellas/1, was included in the diet of one group of cattle at the rate 1 ]/animal/day and in a second group at the rate of 1 ]/animal/week. Sterilized sludge, to which had been added 10(5) S. dublin/litre, was included in the diet of a third group of animals at the rate of 1 ]/animal/day. Salmonellas were isolated from all samples of raw sewage sludge but were not isolated from the faeces or carcasses of animals fed on the sludge. Salmonellas were isolated from the faeces of one animal and the carcasses of two animals fed on sterilized sludge to which S. dublin had been added.
Quenching of the luminescence of phosphorescent bacteria as a test for assessing the toxicity of the phenol components of sewage]	The object of this work was to estimate whether the luminescence of luminescent bacteria could be used as a biological test for assessment of the toxicity of phenol compounds in sewage. The toxicity of phenol compounds for luminescent bacteria was compared in terms of three indices: the quenching of luminescence, the inhibition of dehydrogenase activity and the ability to grow. Among the three indices, the quenching of luminescence was characterized by the highest sensitivity and the most rapid response.
Anaerobic degradation of coniferyl alcohol by methanogenic consortia.	Coniferyl alcohol was shown to be completely biodegradable to carbon dioxide and methane under strictly anaerobic culture conditions. The mineralization of 300 mg of the substrate per liter was observed in acclimated ferulic acid-degrading methanogenic consortia, as well as in anaerobic enrichments on coniferyl alcohol seeded with sewage sludge. Ferulic and phenylpropionic acids were detected in the cultures degrading coniferyl alcohol as the sole carbon and energy source, suggesting that this compound is oxidized to ferulic acid, which is then degraded as previously described.
A comparison of two modifications of Rappaport's enrichment medium (R25 and RV) for the isolation of salmonellas from sewage polluted natural water.	The development of Rappaport's enrichment medium and elevated temperature incubation as methods of salmonella isolation is traced. The recent recording of a merger of the two techniques by means of Rappaport--Vassiliadis medium is noted (RV medium). In Cardiff, we have found an earlier modification of Rappaport's enrichment (R25) by Vassiliadis to be efficient in salmonella recovery from environment samples. The current study compares the two media using sewage polluted natural water as test material. Under the conditions of experiment, R25 was more successful in salmonella isolation than RV, although the later medium inhibited competitive organisms better. R25 is a convenient enrichment broth for routine use. In combination with pre-enrichment it allows the use of a loop for subculture rather than a pipette. This increases safe manipulation. It also produces a high proportion of positive isolations at the 24 h subculture time in contrast to other enrichment broths. For these reasons it forms an integral part of salmonella isolation methodology in our laboratory.
Properties of a bacterial enzyme preparation of alkylsulfatase]	A preparation of primary alkyl sulfatase was obtained from the culture of Pseudomonas species 2T/1. It can hydrolyze alkyl sulfates, which belong to anion surface-active compounds, to sulfate ion and fatty alcohol, and as a result the harmful for biosphere property of the surface activity is gone. pH and temperature of the incubation mixture, the presence of ions of some bivalent metals and components of synthetic detergents (SD), composition of the buffer mixture and substrate concentration affect the rate of sodium dodecylsulfate (SDS) hydrolysis. The alkyl sulfatase preparation is relatively stable. The maximum rate of SDS hydrolysis was found to be at 70 degrees C. The preparation catalyzes the hydrolysis of some alkyl sulfate homologues and industrial alkyl sulfates. The temperature optimum of the preparation is 40 degrees C, the pH-optimum is 8.0-9.0.
Filamentous bacteria in activated sludge (bulking sludge). I. Occurrence of filamentous bacteria in a sewage treatment plant working with the activated sludge process (plug flow system)]	The occurrence of filamentous bacteria in activated sludge (bulking sludge) was investigated in the sewage treatment plant Berlin-Ruhleben. The studies were carried out in five periods from 26.10.1981 to 29.7.1982 (= 112 sampling days). It was noticed that filamentous bacteria appeared in the aeration tanks in different quantities and several kinds of species. With the identification key from Eikelboom Microthrix parvicella, Type 021 N and Type 0041 were frequently identified in all aeration tanks, whereas Type 0961 and Nocardia spec. were observed only in several aeration tanks. Haliscomenobacter hydrossis, Thiothrix spec., Type 0914, Type 1701, Type 1851 and Type 1852 appeared only sporadically. Besides the familiar filamentous bacteria another species was identified under the microscope which, however, could not be classified so far. The filaments are straight or slightly bent with a visible septation and long cylindrical cells. The species is Gram- and Neisser-negative and shows no deposition of sulfur granules.
Salmonella isolation with Rappaport's medium after pre-enrichment in buffered peptone water using a series of inoculum ratios.	The ability of malachite green/magnesium chloride broth (Rappaport's medium) to isolate salmonellas from 25 ml quantities of sewage-polluted natural water was investigated. Samples were first pre-enriched in buffered peptone water and varying volumes of inoculum from the pre-enrichment culture were inoculated into Rappaport's broth. Inoculum ratios in the range 1:2000 to 1:10 were examined. The inoculum ratio denotes the ratio of the volume of inoculum to the volume of fluid medium into which it is introduced. Optimum results were obtained with the 1:2000 ratio, although the salmonella isolation rate was only slightly less with the 1:500 and 1:100 ratios. The 1:2000 inoculum ratio was obtained with a graduated loop holding approximately 0.005 ml of fluid. Use of a loop for inoculation has advantages in speed of performance and safety of manipulation.
Use of Moore swabs for isolating Vibrio cholerae from sewage.	The Moore swab method was shown to be a practical and sensitive technique for the isolation of Vibrio cholerae from sewage. In each of three instances in which cholera patients lived in homes connected to municipal sewers, V. cholerae was isolated from the community sewage plant intake at the time of the patients illness. Sewer systems became negative within 1 day after patients were treated with tetracycline. Sewer surveillance using the Moore swab also found evidence of infections occurring in areas where surveillance of diarrheal illness failed to detect cholera. Culturing community sewage by the Moore swab method proved to be an economical and effective way of determining areas where V. cholerae infections were occurring.
Isolations of salmonellas from human, food and environmental sources in the Manchester area: 1976-1980.	A retrospective survey was carried out for isolations of salmonellas from humans, foods and sewer swabs from food-handling premises for the period 1976-80. The predominant serotypes isolated from humans were S. typhimurium, S. hadar, S. virchow and S. agona. Salmonellas were found in less than 1% of cooked pork and poultry products and were not detected in cooked beef or lamb. The isolation rates for cooked offal and cooked open pet foods were 2.1% and 19.7% respectively. Isolation rates for uncooked meats ranged from 5% for beef to 36% for poultry. Most of the uncooked meats were sausages in which the predominant serotypes were S. derby, S. typhimurium, S. heidelberg and S. panama. An attempt was made to investigate the relationship between serotypes isolated from humans and from sausages and sewer swabs. S. typhimurium and S. bredeney were predominant in humans, sausages and sewer swabs whilst S. derby, S. panama and S. give were predominant only in sausages and sewer swabs.
Effect of sewage sludge diets fed swine on nutrient digestibility, reproduction, growth and minerals in tissues.	Twelve female swine were fed in a 3 X 4 crossover design metabolism trial corn-soybean grower diets that contained 0, 10 or 20% sewage sludge over three 19-day periods. The mean values for total digestible nutrients were 79.4, 73.7 and 55.0%; those for metabolizable energy were 3.36, 2.25 and 1.15 Mcal/kg diet; and those for nitrogen retained were 42.8, 44.0 and 25.3%, respectively. Sewage sludge (0, 10, 20%) diets were fed to 31 sows approximately equally divided into the dietary groups during their first two pregnancies, and to their offspring from weaning until market weight. More live pigs were farrowed and weaned per litter from sows fed 20% sludge diets than from the control group. However, 21-day weaning weights of pigs were lower from sows fed the sludge-containing diets. Offspring of both first and second litters fed growing and finishing diets containing sludge from weaning until market weight had decreased daily weight gains and feed efficiency. There were no increases in nine elements (Pb, Cd, Ni, Zn, Cr, Cu, Mn, Fe and Al) in sow's milk or blood. Offspring of sows fed sludge diets showed increases of several elements in selected tissues at weaning and after consuming sludge diets until market weight.
Neutron activation study of the elementary composition of edible sea urchins (Paracentrotus lividus Lamarck) in marine creek area polluted by city sewages of Marseille (France).	Neutron activation study of elementary composition (Ag, As, Au, Ba, Br, Ce, Co, Cr, Cs, Fe, K, La, Na, Rb, Sb, Sc, Se, Sm, Sr, Th, U and Zn) was performed on edible sea urchins (Paracentrotus lividus Lamarck) from marine creek area polluted by city sewages from Marseille (France) after a purifying plant was brought into operation. Concentration levels were higher in soft organic parts (alimentary canals and gonads) for all the elements except for Sr which showed a strong affinity for calcareous parts (tests, spines and masticating apparatus). Certain elements present in the soft organic parts are rarely found in the hard parts. More than half the elements studied show higher concentrations in Marseille samples than in the referential region of Port-Cros National Park (France). That must be due to sewage rejection for a large number of them. This hypothesis is confirmed with regard to elements the values of which decrease significantly with the distance from the sewage emission point, e.g. Cr, Fe and Zn, and a little less for Ag, Ba, Ce, Rb, Sb, Sc, Se, Sm and Th. These results raise a question: has that artificial change on the elementary composition any toxicological effects on the urchin populations? This question is discussed.
Microbial degradation of diethanolamine and related compounds.	Thirteen diethanolamine compounds were tested for their biodegradability employing (1) a bacterium selectively isolated from an industral cutting fluid, and (2) an acclimatized sewage population obtained from a domestic waste treatment plant. Pure culture growth and biochemical oxygen demand studies with the isolate showed that only diethanolamine, methyl-diethanolamine, triethanolamine, and laurylsulphate-diethanolamine were degradable. Biochemical oxygen demand techniques using the acclimatized sewage micro-organisms as seed yielded similar results with only diethanolamine, methyl-diethanolamine, triethanolamine, and laurylsulphate-diethanolamine being oxidized to any meaningful extent. Cyclohexyldiethanolamine, phenyl-diethanolamine, and m-tolyl-diethanolamine had oxygen demands of less than 1% of their theoretically calculated values, while ethyl-diethanolamine and benzyl-diethanolamine accounted for 3.6 and 2.3% of their theoretical values respectively. In both systems employed substitution of the tertiary hydrogen of the amine group with isopropyl, 3-aminopropyl, n-butyl, or t-butyl resulted in biologically recalcitrant compounds.
Phenotypic and genotypic characterization of Vibrio cholerae O1]	We made 52180 tests for isolation and identification of toxigenic V. cholerae O1 from rectal swabs and reference strains. We isolated 17.6% V. cholerae O1 strains in 1991, 43.5% in 1992 and 38.9% in 1993. The main serovar in 1991 was Inaba, whereas in 1993 a similar percentage was serovar Ogawa. The phenotype of V. cholerae strains was determined by hemolysis test, Voges-Proskauer test, polymyxin B resistance and phages 4 and 5 resistance. All of the mexican strains were El Tor. There were 2.9-0.75% hemolytic strains from 1991 to 1993, but they were negative when the test was made in tube with human erythrocytes. The resistotypes were performed in 24526 selected strains by Kirby-Bauer method and MIC tests. All of the strains were sensitive, except more than 100 strains isolated in Veracruz that were resistant to tetracycline and doxycycline. Detection of cholera toxin was made by ELISA and on culture of Vero and CHO cells. All the V. cholerae O1 strains were toxigenic. The genotype was determined by PCR and ribotyping. The PCR amplified one 564 pb fragment on V. cholerae O1. The ribotypes of mexican strains were 5 and 6a.
Cytotonic and cytotoxic effect of cholera toxin on Vero cells and its relation to PCR]	We studied 40 Vibrio cholerae strains: 16 from stool, 16 from sewage and 8 from food. The serotypes were Inaba in 21 strains, 8 Ogawa strains and 11 V. cholerae non-O1. PCR was made with ctx2 and ctx3 primers with 25 cycles of temperature: 1 min at 94 degrees C, 1 min at 60 degrees C and 1 min at 72 degrees C. 24 V. cholerae strains were positive: 18/24 Inaba y 6/24 Ogawa. PCR was negative for 16 strains: 3 Inaba serotype, 2 Ogawa y 11 V. cholerae non-O1. In Vero culture cells 18 strains were cytotonic, 21 cytotoxic and 1 strain was negative. ELISA was positive for 11 strains with PCR positive. The PCR sensitivity was 95.83% compared with culture cells. V. cholerae O1 produced cytotoxic effect on Vero culture cells, maybe related to ACE factor. Colony blot was made with a specific probe labeled with digoxigenin and it could detect 4 Vibrio cholerae toxigenic strains with PCR negative. All V. cholerae Non O1 strains were PCR negative.
Evaluation of the ELISA method for cholera toxin determination in Vibrio cholerae cultures]	ELISA test was evaluated in 503 cultures of Vibrio cholerae O1 y 303 Non-O1. The cultures were isolated from sewage from different states of Mxico between june 1991 and october 1992. The sensitivity was 100% and specificity was 96%. Only 12 strains of V. cholerae Non-O1 were positive for CT toxin. When these cultures were confirmed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for cholera toxin, the results were negative. ELISA test is a good alternative to be used for toxin production in cultures of V. cholerae, it needs confirmation only with O1 negative and Non-O1 positive reactions.
Effect of digested sewage sludge on the ventilation and coughing rates of two fresh water fish.	Addition of digested sewage sludge at concentrations of 2% and 10% (v/v) to the water increased coughing rate in big head and tilapia (P < 0.05). Ventilation rate was significantly decreased (P < 0.05) in big head and tilapia at sludge concentrations of 6% and 2% (v/v) respectively. Copper (Cu), cadmium (Cd) and zinc (Zn) are trace metals which are commonly found in sludge. Cu caused a significant increase (P < 0.05) in coughing rate in both tilapia and big head at concentrations of 0.3 and 0.2 microgram/ml respectively. Zn caused significant increase (P < 0.05) in coughing rate only in big head at 2 microgram/ml. Neither fish responded to Cd of up to 2 micrograms/ml in the water. However, when the levels of these trace metals in the digested sludge were measured, they were below that which can cause significant changes in the respiratory movements. Therefore, the changes in ventilation and coughing rates after addition of sludge may be due to the presence of substances other than these metals. The results of this experiment provides a guideline to control the level of sludge that can be used in rearing these fresh water fish in ponds.
Metabolic interactions between anaerobic bacteria in methanogenic environments.	In methanogenic environments organic matter is degraded by associations of fermenting, acetogenic and methanogenic bacteria. Hydrogen and formate consumption, and to some extent also acetate consumption, by methanogens affects the metabolism of the other bacteria. Product formation of fermenting bacteria is shifted to more oxidized products, while acetogenic bacteria are only able to metabolize compounds when methanogens consume hydrogen and formate efficiently. These types of metabolic interaction between anaerobic bacteria is due to the fact that the oxidation of NADH and FADH2 coupled to proton or bicarbonate reduction in thermodynamically only feasible at low hydrogen and formate concentrations. Syntrophic relationships which depend on interspecies hydrogen or formate transfer were described for the degradation of e.g. fatty acids, amino acids and aromatic compounds.
The elimination of Salmonella typhimurium in coastal waters with various levels of microbiologically hygienic contamination.	The biotic elimination of Salmonella typhimurium in coastal sea water is primarily caused by protozoa. The elimination is usually faster in summer than in winter and in the vicinity of waste water outlets partially faster than in coastal areas with less contamination. When the rate of elimination is measured twice in succession in the same sample (primary/secondary culture) the second reduction is considerably faster. This activation is attributed to the multiplication of protozoa (predator-prey-effect). The activation is also possible through E. coli in concentrations such as those found in waste from sewage treatment plants or by Salmonella typhimurium themselves and vice versa. After 12 hours incubation the number of E. coli in the primary culture was still about 58% of the original quantity and 12 hours after a renewed inoculation in the secondary culture only 1%. When salmonella were added to the primary culture it was already impossible to detect E. coli after 12 hours in the secondary culture. Salmonella showed comparable tendencies, although the elimination of salmonella was clearly slower than the elimination of E. coli even after activation with salmonella. In the primary culture E. coli is already recultivatable in a smaller quantity than salmonella. Furthermore the addition of Cycloheximide to the secondary culture provides a considerably better protection for salmonella than for E. coli, so that it can be assumed that other or additional factors are involved in the elimination of E. coli.
Sanitary and helminthic characteristics of soil]	Soil of 20% of economic districts of Russian Federation is slightly polluted by helminths (10 eggs per kg of soil), 64% is moderately polluted (11-100 eggs per kg), 16% much polluted (more 100 eggs per kg). Soil of agricultural fields is polluted 2-3 times more because of use of sewage and their sediments. Recommendations on protection of soil from pollution by helminths are given.
The routes of helminth egg appearance on the territory of recreational areas and sites of the lower Don River]	Sanitary and parasitologic problems of recreation use of water bodies and coast lines are still to be studied. The author has examined the routes of invasion at recreation areas by the lower Don river. The river bed depositions and water as well as coastline soil were found contaminated with helminthic eggs. These eggs were brought by sewage water, feces, and surface flow. Effective ecologically justified measures should be developed to prevent it.
The polio epidemic in The Netherlands, 1992/1993.	Starting September 1992, an outbreak of poliomyelitis occurred in the Netherlands. Until now a total of 67 cases have been notified. These were the first indigenous cases since 1978. None of the patients had been vaccinated before, and all but one belong to small Protestant groups that refuse vaccination for religious reasons. The age of the patients varies from several days to 61 years (mean age 19) and the male to female ratio is 1.6:1.0. The epidemic is caused by wild poliovirus type 3. Partial genomic sequencing showed closest resemblance to a virus isolated in India in 1991. The epidemiological characteristics of the present outbreak are similar to those of previous outbreaks in the seventies. Although vaccination coverage in the Netherlands is excellent (97% coverage for the first series of three doses with IPV vaccine), outbreaks can be expected because some socially closely interrelated small groups refuse vaccination (totalling about 200,000 persons) for religious reasons. Experience from this epidemic, from previous epidemics, and preliminary results of random stool and sewage sampling indicate very little circulating virus among the general population. Changes in (implementation of) the vaccination policy, including a mixed strategy with OPV and IPV, are being considered to reduce the risk of similar outbreaks in the future.
The elimination of polio in the Scandinavian countries.	The Nordic countries, i.e., Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden, together with Holland, have all continued to use the killed poliovaccine introduced in the middle of the 1950s and they still use it today. In Denmark, combined vaccination has been practised since 1966, starting with three doses of the killed vaccine and continuing with the oral vaccine. Norway used oral vaccine alone during the 14-year period from 1965 to 1979. In all these countries, the immunizations with the killed vaccine were immediately successful. Poliomyelitis was practically eliminated already by the beginning of the 1960s. After this initial successful period, the different countries experienced different events, from which valuable conclusions can be drawn: 1. Nationwide vaccination with killed vaccine was highly effective. 2. It is of the utmost importance that the potency of the killed vaccine is high. 3. Oral vaccine may cause higher rates of vaccine-associated secondary cases than have been reported in general. 4. In the Nordic countries, the general circulation of wild virus appeared to cease simultaneously with the disease. 5. When virus is reintroduced into the country, unvaccinated groups are vulnerable. Outbreaks in unvaccinated "pockets" have occurred. This phenomenon, however, has also been experienced in countries using oral vaccine. 6. In Stockholm, both wild poliovirus and vaccine-like polio strains were isolated from the sewage water, indicating a constant import of both types of viruses. Virus isolation from thousands of patients with meningitis or diarrhoea have been negative throughout the years.
Israel in the elimination phase of poliomyelitis--achievements and remaining problems.	Following the introduction of a combined EIPV and OPV schedule in 1990, no more cases of paralytic poliomyelitis were diagnosed and no wild poliovirus strain was isolated in the sewage. 100% seropositivity and high geometric mean titers (GMTs) to the three types of poliovirus vaccine strains and to the type 1 poliovirus 1988 epidemic strain were observed at the completion of the immunization schedule and one year later. The study of the immune profile of various age groups vaccinated with either EIPV or OPV had shown that the immunity to the epidemic poliovirus strain was less satisfactory, in terms of percent of seropositivity and GMTs, than to the poliovirus vaccine strains. In individuals previously immunized with either EIPV or OPV a high and quick immune response to both the 1988 epidemic and vaccine strains was observed after a booster dose of OPV. Follow-up to four years after the booster pointed to some decrease in the extent and intensity of the seropositivity to the 1988 epidemic strain as compared to the immune profile to the poliovirus vaccine strains. Maintaining Israel in the phase of polio elimination requires: > 95% national coverage, homogenously distributed; maintaining high immune profile to the three poliovirus types, including a satisfactory immune level to the 1988 epidemic strain in all the age groups at risk of polio; early detection of the introduction of wild poliovirus into the environment and of the occurrence of foci of indigenous activity; reducing the risk of exposure to massive infectious doses.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Isolation and selection of methylamines and dimethyl formamide degrading microorganisms]	From an activated sludge sample, microorganisms capable to degrade monomethylamine (MMA), dimethylamine (DMA), trimethylamine (TMA), and dimethylformamide (DMF) were isolated. These compounds are present in the wastewaters from a petrochemical plant. Microbial communities were cultivated, in aerobic conditions in a 2-liter bioreactor fed with the wastewater. Only four different kinds of microorganisms were obtained, but they could maintain their degradative capacity after several transfers. This microbial biomass was able to reduce 90% of the dissolved pollutants in a sample of industrial wastewater, mainly MMA, DMA, TMA, and DMF, measured as dissolved organic carbon, in approximately 5 days.
The ecological and geographical aspects of the spread of Vibrio cholerae in environmental objects]	The results of studies carried out over the period of 24 years have revealed that V. eltor is widely spread in different ecological systems over a considerable part of the territory of the former USSR in the temperate and subtropical climatic zones. The duration and seasonal character of the isolation of these bacteria depend on climatic and geographical conditions, and their isolation rate greatly depends on the epidemic situation. The intensity and seasonal character of the isolation of V. eltor have been shown to depend on the character of the ecological system. For some water reservoirs definite biotic and abiotic factors capable of influencing the isolation rate of V. eltor have been determined, but no general regularities involving the above-mentioned factors and constantly ensuring such influence have been established.
The virulence of Vibrio cholerae isolated under different epidemiological situations]	The virulence of V. cholerae isolated on the territory of Russia and other CIS countries from environmental objects and from humans in different epidemic situations during the period of 1987-1991 was studied. The analysis of the data obtained in this study revealed that intensive epidemic complications were linked with the realization of the pathogenic properties of strains, characterized by the presence of the ctx gene and the absence of hemolytic activity. As a rule, in single cases or in isolated group cases of cholera V. cholerae hemolysin-negative strains without the cholera toxin gene were isolated.
An analysis of group salmonellosis morbidity in the Republic of Moldova]	The epidemiological analysis of data on the outbreaks of Salmonella infections registered in the Republic of Moldova in 1983-1989 were analyzed. Significant differences in the epidemic parameters of the outbreaks occurring in 1983-1985 and in 1986-1989 were revealed. The deterioration of the epidemiological situation in recent years was shown to be linked with the alimentary route of the transmission of the infective agent with the increased circulation of S. enteritidis among agricultural animals and poultry.
Lysis of cyanobacteria with Flexibacter spp isolated from domestic sewage.	Five species of filamentous cyanobacteria and two species of Flexibacter were isolated from domestic sewage. Cells and filtrates of F. flexilis and F. sancti lysed the cyanobacterium Oscillatoria williamsii. Inhibition of the photosynthetic electron transport reactions, and glycolate dehydrogenase and nitrogenase activity of O. williamsii due to its incubation with F. flexilis, were observed. Scanning electron micrographs revealed the attachment of F. flexilis to the sheaths of O. williamsii which resulted in the excretion of lysozyme and lysis of the cyanobacterium. Seasonal variations of Flexibacter spp showed that they were more abundant in the aeration tanks during June compared with sewage effluents.
A method to detect enteroviruses in sewage sludge-amended soil using the PCR.	PCR detection of seeded poliovirus type 1 in sludge-amended soil was made possible by utilizing Sephadex G-50 and Chelex-100 resins to remove compounds present in sludge-amended soil that may inhibit PCR. With this method, enteroviruses indigenous to an anerobically digested sludge were detected by PCR in 10 different soils amended with this sludge.
Distribution of tetracycline resistance determinants among gram-negative bacteria isolated from polluted and unpolluted marine sediments.	Tetracycline-resistant gram-negative bacteria were isolated from four different marine sediments in Scandinavia and analyzed with DNA probes for the determinant classes A to E. Colony hybridizations of 429 isolates revealed that class E is the dominating resistance determinant in these marine sediments. Comparison of fecally polluted and unpolluted sediments showed few determinant classes in unpolluted sediment and a complex composition of several determinant classes in polluted sediment. Total DNA extraction and analysis with DNA probes for determinant classes A to E resulted in no hybridization signal, because of the low number of gram-negative tetracycline-resistant bacteria. Identification of class E isolates revealed that this determinant is present not only in Aeromonas hydrophila, Escherichia coli, and Vibrio salmonicida but also in additional strains.
Anaerobic degradation of pimelate by newly isolated denitrifying bacteria.	A C7 dicarboxylic (pimelic) acid derivative is postulated as an intermediate in anaerobic degradation of benzoate. Four strains of Gram-negative, nitrate-reducing bacteria capable of growth with both pimelate and benzoate as sole carbon and energy source were isolated. The metabolism of strain LP-1, which was enriched from activated sludge with pimelate as substrate, was studied in detail. This strain grew only with oxygen or with oxidized nitrogen compounds as electron acceptor. In the presence of nitrate, a wide range of substrates excluding C1 compounds was degraded. The new isolate was catalase- and oxidase-positive, and had one single polar flagellum. Strain LP-1 was tentatively classified within the family Pseudomonadaceae. The catabolism of pimelate and benzoate was studied in cell-free extracts of strain LP-1. Both acids were activated with coenzyme A in a Mg(2E)- and ATP-dependent reaction. The corresponding acyl-CoA synthetases were specifically induced by the respective growth substrate. Pimelate was also activated by CoA transfer from succinyl-CoA. Pimelyl-CoA was oxidized by cell-free extracts in the presence of potassium ferricyanide. Degradation to glutaryl-CoA and acetyl-CoA proceeded by a sequence of beta-oxidation-like reactions. Glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase and glutaconyl-CoA decarboxylase activities were expressed in cells grown with pimelate or benzoate, indicating the specific involvement of these enzyme activities in anaerobic degradation of these two acids. Enzyme activities responsible for further degradation of the resulting crotonyl-CoA to acetyl-CoA via classical beta-oxidation were also detected.
Degradation of poly(3-hydroxybutyrate-co-3-hydroxyvalerate) by aerobic sewage sludge.	The degradation of sheets of poly(3-hydroxybutyrate-co-3-hydroxyvalerate) (BIOPOL) by aerobic sewage sludge was analyzed. Degradation of the polymer was highly dependent on the pH of the culture medium and was maximal between pH 7 and pH 8.5. Below pH 6 and above pH 9 the degradation rate was very low. Agitation of the culture fluid had relatively little influence on the rates of degradation. 1.2 x 10(5) aerobic polymer-degrading bacteria per ml sewage sludge were identified by halo formation on solid poly(3-hydroxybutyrate) (PHB)-containing media. The number of PHB-degrading bacteria in other ecosystems amounted to 3.8 x 10(3) per ml sludge of a fresh-water lake, 9.2 x 10(5) per g garden-soil, 1.3 x 10(6) per g field-soil and 4.3 x 10(6) per g compost.
Opportunistic bacteria in the seawater of recreational areas]	In the coastal water of several seas lying in different climatic zones the content of such opportunistic bacteria as Klebsiella and Pseudomonas aeruginosa was determined. Correlative relationships between Klebsiella, P. aeruginosa, lactose-positive Escherichia coli, fecal E. coli, enterococci and salmonellae were revealed. On the basis of these relationships the conclusion on the possibility of using lactose-positive E. coli as indicator of Klebsiella content in sea water was made. The levels of Klebsiella and Pseudomonas aeruginosa in the sea water of recreational zones, meeting the current norms for lactose-positive E. coli, did not reach levels, dangerous with respect to infective doses, if these bacteria were regarded as opportunistic.
Detection of Legionella species in sewage and ocean water by polymerase chain reaction, direct fluorescent-antibody, and plate culture methods.	Legionella spp. are ubiquitous in most environmental water sources; however, sewage treatment plants have not been examined as potential environmental reservoirs for these bacteria. This study used polymerase chain reaction, direct fluorescent-antibody staining, and culture methods to examine raw and treated sewage, ocean-receiving waters, and nearshore coastal environments for the presence of Legionella pneumophila and other Legionella spp. The study concluded that Legionella spp. are present in all phases of sewage treatment and that population numbers do not significantly decline through the treatment process. Ocean-receiving waters located 5 miles offshore, where the treated sewage is discharged, were found to contain Legionella spp., but ocean water between the discharge site and coastal bathing beaches was negative. This suggests that the Legionella spp. from the ocean discharge site were not reaching the nearshore beach waters. A flood control channel and river that entered the ocean were found to contain Legionella spp., and a nearby beach swimming area was also found to be positive, suggesting that land runoff from the flood control channel and river were the source of the Legionella spp. in the beach water samples that tested positive.
Isolation of Campylobacter from human and other sources in Bombay.	Out of 720 faecal samples studied from acute diarrhoeal patients comprising 645 children and 75 adults, only 4 yielded Campylobacter strains. No Campylobacter was isolated from 300 control faecal samples. One isolate each of C. Coli and C. jejuni was obtained from faecal samples of chicken and goat respectively. No Campylobacter was isolated from 10 sewage samples studied.
Waterborne cholera in Riohacha, Colombia, 1992.	Between 1 January and 31 July 1992 a cholera epidemic caused 548 reported cases (an incidence of about 8 cases per 1,000 inhabitants) in Riohacha, Colombia. Following an initial review of hospital and laboratory data, a cross-sectional household survey and case-control study were conducted to investigate this epidemic. The cross-sectional survey found an increased risk of cholera between November 1991 and September 1992 among subjects who usually drank unchlorinated piped water from the municipal water system (prevalence odds ratio, POR = 5.7; 95% confidence interval, CI = 1.2-41.1), as well as an increased risk of acute diarrheal disease in the 2 weeks preceding the survey interview among these same subjects (POR = 3.3; 95% CI = 1.1-11.2). The case-control study revealed an association between cholera and drinking unboiled tap water (OR = 7.2; 95% CI = 1.6-32.2), and also between cholera and limited availability of water (< 1,400 liters per week) within the household (OR = 3.6; 95% CI = 0.8-16.4). These findings strongly suggest that most of the Riohacha cholera cases were transmitted by contaminated municipal water, a conclusion supported by descriptive evidence of problems affecting Riohacha's municipal water and sewerage systems.
Acanthamoeba pearcei n. sp. (Protozoa: Amoebida) from sewage contaminated sediments.	Seabottom sediments from a discontinued Philadelphia-Camden 40-Mile ocean sewage disposal site were cultured for cyst-forming free-living amoebae. Barge delivered wastes were discharged at the site from 1973 until 1980 when the site was closed. One station at the southeast margin of the site was sampled at a depth of approximately 50 m, twice in 1978 and once in 1982, 1983 and 1984. Sediment from the 1978 collection yielded Acanthamoeba polyphaga, Vahlkampfia sp., and an unknown amoeba with stellate endocysts similar to those of A. astronyxis. Trophozoites and cysts of the isolate were typical of those described for the genus Acanthamoeba. Biochemical tests employing enzyme electrophoresis and morphological studies on live and stained specimens showed that the isolate was distinct from other well-described species within the family Acanthamoebidae Sawyer & Griffin, 1975.
Anaerobic biodegradation potentials in digested sludge, a freshwater swamp and a marine sediment.	An anaerobic gas production test was used for determining the potential biodegradation of 22 organic chemicals under methanogenic conditions. Nine of the examined chemicals were extensively mineralized (> 75%) both in sewage sludge and in a freshwater swamp indicating good agreement between biodegradation potentials in these habitats. Samples from a marine sediment showed a less extensive mineralization of most of the test chemicals, and lag periods of several weeks often preceded net gas production. As marine sediments usually contain sulfate at the time of collection, the assessment of biodegradation potentials in such environments is probably more reliable when using a method based on sulfate reduction instead of methanogenic gas production. The results of the tests indicate that the commonly recommended washing of sludge solids can be eliminated by applying a more diluted inoculum.
The technology of sewage purification and water treatment in self-contained oxidation-biosorption units]	A technological process for oxybiosorption of sewage was developed. The process and a self-contained unit using it are described.
Investigation of an outbreak of water-borne typhoid fever in Catalonia in 1994]	Typhoid fever incidence in Spain, and particularly in Catalonia has decreased significantly since 1985. Water borne outbreaks can affect large numbers of people. These two reasons make specially interesting to study all suspected typhoid fever outbreaks, like the one that happened in March 1994 in Bages county (Barcelona).
In situ visualization of high genetic diversity in a natural microbial community.	Simultaneous in situ visualization of seven distinct bacterial genotypes, all affiliated with the phylogenetically narrow group of beta-1 Proteobacteria, was achieved in activated sludge. This finding indicates that the high diversity found in the same sample by direct rRNA sequence retrieval was indeed present in this complex community. By the combination of comparative rRNA sequence analysis, in situ hybridization with fluorescently labeled, rRNA-targeted oligonucleotides and confocal laser scanning microscopy several microbial populations can be analyzed for abundance, relative spatial distribution and phylogeny directly at their site of action without prior cultivation.
Assessment of bottom sediments of the Uriup River in the area of open coal pit sewage accumulation]	The levels of greater than 20 chemicals were determined in the bottom sediments of the Uryup river. The characteristics of bottom river sediments before and after sewage accumulator outlet were compared. No negative changes in the chemical sediments in the river were revealed.
Effect of deterlon (DBS) on the electrocardiogram of eel Anguilla anguilla (L).	Effect of Deterlon (DBS) on the electrocardiogram of eel Anguilla anguilla (L). Acta Physiol. Pol. 1977, 28 (2): 179--186. The investigations of the effect of a detergent Deterlon-DBS present in industrial and community sewage on ECG changes in the eel Anguilla anguilla (L) showed that it causes disturbances in the impulse-generating centres and in the mechanism of impulse conduction in the heart. It was found that the threshold concentration of Deterlon-DBS in aqueous medium is 3 mg SA/1 for the eel, the lethal concentration lying in the range of 60--100 mg SA/1.
Microbial biomass in a shallow, urban aquifer contaminated with aromatic hydrocarbons: analysis by phospholipid fatty acid content and composition.	The city of Perth contains a number of sites that have been contaminated with hydrocarbons due to leakage from petroleum underground storage tanks. Microbial biomass in groundwater and sediment cores from above and below the water table, and from within and outside a plume of hydrocarbon contamination, was examined using phospholipid fatty acid methyl ester analysis. Microbial numbers, calculated from the phospholipid content, ranged from 0.9 x 10(6) to 7.8 x 10(6) 'Escherichia coli equivalent cells' g-1 dry wt of sediment. Over 96% of the microbial biomass was attached to the sediment and the proportion of attached cells did not decrease within the plume of contaminants. The amount of biomass within aquifer samples seemed to be related more to the proximity of the rhizosphere to the shallow aquifer, and other unknown urban inputs, rather than to the effects of the plume of contaminants. Fatty acids common to many bacterial groups dominated within the plume, and as such the analyses gave limited insight into microbial community structure. For site assessment of intrinsic remediation of shallow aquifers in urban areas, estimates of microbial biomass may not provide information that is readily applicable to plume management.
The prevalence of cysticerci of Taenia saginata in cattle reared on sewage-irrigated pasture.	The hearts, masseter muscles, tongues and laryngeal muscles from 200 cattle aged 10 to 11 months, and 100 cattle aged 20 to 21 months, which had been reared on sewage-irrigated pastures at the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works Farm, Werribee, Victoria, were examined for infection with cysticerci of Taenia saginata by slicing in the laboratory and the result obtained were compared with those recorded during normal meat inspection procedures at the abattoir. Of the 10 to 11-month-old cattle 51-5% were found to be infected and 8% of the total animals harboured viable cysticerci. Of the 20 to 21-month-old animals 33% were infected, and, even at this age, 8% of the animals still carried viable cysticerci. On-line meat inspection at the abattoir detected significantly fewer infections than did laboratory slicing.
Physiological activity of Campylobacter jejuni far below the minimal growth temperature.	The behavior of Campylobacter jejuni at environmental temperatures was examined by determining the physiological activities of this human pathogen. The minimal growth temperatures were found to be 32 and 31 degrees C for strains 104 and ATCC 33560, respectively. Both strains exhibited a sudden decrease in growth rate from the maximum to zero within a few degrees not only near the maximal growth temperature but also near the minimal growth temperature. This could be an indication that a temperature-dependent transition in the structure of a key enzyme(s) or regulatory compound(s) determines the minimal growth temperature. Oxygen consumption, catalase activity, ATP generation, and protein synthesis were observed at temperatures as low as 4 degrees C, indicating that vital cellular processes were still functioning. PCR analysis showed that cold shock protein genes, which play a role in low-temperature adaptation in many bacteria, are not present in C. jejuni. The fact that chemotaxis and aerotaxis could be observed at all temperatures shows that the pathogen is able to move to favorable places at environmental temperatures, which may have significant implications for the survival of C. jejuni in the environment.
Capillary electrophoresis interfaced to inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry for element selective detection in arsenic speciation.	A method is presented to separate and detect six arsenic species by capillary electrophoresis (CE) interfaced to inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). CE was used as a highly resolving separation system, whereas ICP-MS served as an element selective detector providing low detection limits. The special mode of operation included sample stacking and a differentiation of separation and detection. This provided separation and detection of six As species, uncharged and anionic, to be monitored within a single run. Detection limits were calculated according to IUPAC recommendation at 15 microg As/L for As (III), dimethyl arsinic acid (DA), monomethyl arsonic acid (MA) and As (V), or 65 microg As/L for arsenobetaine (AsB) and arsenocholine (AsC). Investigations were focused on possibly occurring interferences, e.g., ArCl+ interference at the monoisotope 75As. Finally, real samples from biomedical field (urine) and environmental field (sewage sludge) were analyzed.
PCR-based identification of clinically relevant Pseudallescheria/Scedosporium strains.	Pseudallescheria boydii (anamorph: Scedosporium apiospermum) and S. prolificans can cause severe infections in both the immunocompromized host and accidentally injured people. A species-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) enabling detection and discrimination of these fungi has not been available to date. In view of the difficult treatment especially of S. prolificans infections, a PCR-based detection system has been developed. Based on results of partial sequencing of ribosomal DNA, Scedosporium DNA could be amplified, either at the genus or at the species level. Hybridization probes for the identification of the PCR-products were established.
Risk of hepatitis A infection in sewage workers.	To evaluate the risk of hepatitis A virus (HAV) infection among sewage workers from occupational exposure to raw sewage.
