Mutability of the germ cells of the progeny of irradiated male Drosophila]	The increased frequency of random and radiation-induced mutation was registered in germ cells of drosophila irradiated male descendants of the first generation. The effect observed depended on of radiation dose delivered to parent males, test dose to progeny, type of mutation registered, and sex of the descendants under study.
Analysis of the chromosome aberrations induced by x-rays in somatic cells of Drosophila melanogaster.	A technique has been perfected for enabling good microscope preparations to be obtained from the larval ganglia of Drosophila melanogaster. This system was then tested with X-rays and an extensive series of data was obtained on the chromosome aberrations induced in the various stages of the cell cycle.-The analysis of the results obtained offers the following points of interest: (1) There exists a difference in radio-sensitivity between the two sexes. The females constantly display a greater frequency of both chromosome and chromatid aberrations. They also display a greater frequency of spontaneous aberrations. (2) In both sexes the overall chromosome damage is greater in cells irradiated in stages G(2) and G(1). These two peaks of greater radiosensitivity are produced by a high frequency of terminal deletions and chromatid exchanges and by a high frequency of dicentrics, respectively. (3) The aberrations are not distributed at random among the various chromosomes. On the average, the Y chromosome is found to be more resistant and the breaks are preferentially localized in the pericentromeric heterochromatin of the X chromosome and of the autosomes. (4) Somatic pairing influences the frequency and type of the chromosome aberrations induced. In this system, such an arrangement of the chromosomes results in a high frequency of exchanges and dicentrics between homologous chromosomes and a low frequency of scorable translocations. Moreover, somatic pairing, probably by preventing the formation of looped regions in the interphase chromosomes, results in the almost total absence of intrachanges at both chromosome and chromatid level.
Decrease of gamma-ray-induced mutations by visible light in Drosophila.	The effects of visible light post-treatment on the spectrum and frequencies of gamma-ray-induced mutations at five specific loci and of macrodeletions of the X chromosome in post-meiotic male germ cells in mutant c(3)G17 of Drosophila melanogaster were studied. It was found that post-treatment by light decreased the yield of chromosome rearrangements to the extent of 1.5 to 2 times, but not that of point mutations.
Genetic effects of strong magnetic fields in Drosophila melanogaster: II. lack of interaction between homogeneous fields and fission neutron-plus-gamma radiation.	Interaction between mutagenic effects of strong homogeneous magnetic fields and fission neutron-plus-gamma radiation was investigated, using the sex-linked, recessive, lethal test in Drosophila melanogaster. Drosophila males were exposed chronically, for seven days, to a 37,000-G homogeneous magnetic field and/or 3 doses of neutron-plus gamma radiation. Mutations in spermatozoa, spermatids, and spermatocytes were scored. There was no evidence of interaction between the effects of the two types of exposure in causing genetic damage in any of the three cell types. Dose-response relations for the radiation doses were linear for spermatozoa and spermatids for all three doses and for spermatocytes, up to 300 rads. Spermatozoa appear to be most sensitive to neutron-radiation-induced, recessive lethal mutations.
An overall genetic risk assessment for radiological protection purposes.	Risks of serious hereditary damage in the first and second generations after low level radiation exposure and at equilibrium were calculated by using a doubling dose of 100 rem (based on experimental work with the mouse) and by considering separately the various categories of genic and chromosomal defect. Prenatal lethality has not been included. It is estimated that after the exposure of a population of future parents to a collective dose of 1 million man-rem, about 125 extra cases of serious genetic ill health would appear in children and grandchildren. In all future generations, a total of about 320 cases is expected, provided the population remains of constant size. It is emphasised, however, that a number of major assumptions have to be made in order to arrive at any overall genetic risk estimate, so that the confidence limits of these figures are bound to be wide.
Genetic effects of acute spermatogonial X-irradiation of the laboratory rat.	The genetic effects of one generation of spermatogonial X-irradiation in rats, by a single dose of 600r in one experiment and by a fractionated dose of 450r in another, were measured in three generations of their descendants. Estimates of dominant lethal mutation rates--(2 to 3) X 10-4/gamete/r--from litter size differences between irradiated and nonirradiated stock were consistent with previous estimates from rats and mice. Similar consistency was found for estimates of sex-linked recessive mutation rates--(1 to 2) X 10-4 chromosome/r--from male proportions within strains; however, when measured in crossbreds the proportion of males was higher in the irradiated than in the nonirradiated lines. This inconsistency in results is in keeping with the contradictory results reported for recessive sex-linked lethal mutation rates in mice. The effects used to estimate recessive lethal mutation rates which were unusually high--(2 to 14) X 10-4/gamete/r--were not significant. Other factors that could have contributed to the observed effects are postulated.
