Serum prostate specific antigen, sex hormone binding globulin and free androgen index as markers of pubertal development in boys.	Prostate specific antigen (PSA) expression in the prostate gland is regulated by androgens. Serum levels of PSA are undetectable by routine assays in normal boys. Measurable values could serve as a marker for pubertal development. In order to explore this question, we measured serum PSA levels in normal boys throughout puberty and examined the interrelationships with various hormonal and physical developmental changes.
Monoclonal antibodies to human sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG): characterization and use in a simple enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) of SHBG in plasma.	Four monoclonal antibodies to human sex hormone-binding globulin were raised and characterized. Three of the four antibodies recognised different antigenic determinants on SHBG. Two of the distinct antibodies were useful for Western blotting and recognized a major 48 kDa band in human plasma as well as a 46 kDa minor component. Carbohydrate residues do not form part of the antigenic determinants of these two antibodies, although one of these showed increased signal following removal of N-linked oligosaccharides. Some of the antibodies were selected to form a basis of a same-day, non-competitive, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for SHBG in plasma. The assay employs a purified IgG2a SHBG monoclonal antibody adsorbed to the wells of a microtitre plate. After blocking any further adsorption to the plate, standards or diluted patient samples were added for a 5-h incubation at room temperature, after which the plate was washed and antibody-bound SHBG was detected with an anti-SHBG IgG1 monoclonal antibody followed by peroxidase-labeled antimouse-IgG1 and o-phenylenediamine substrate. The assay correlated well with an existing 2-day ELISA for SHBG in plasma using polyclonal antibodies and also correlated with a dihydrosterone (DHT) ligand-binding assay. The monoclonal antibody-based ELISA shows excellent performance characteristics and is unaffected by added testosterone or estradiol.
Serum testosterone and sex hormone-binding globulin concentrations and the risk of prostate carcinoma: a longitudinal study.	It has been hypothesized that high androgen levels are determinants of prostate carcinoma.
Relationship between insulin resistance, sex hormones and sex hormone-binding globulin in the serum lipid and lipoprotein profiles of Japanese postmenopausal women.	The purpose of the present study was to investigate the relationship between insulin resistance, sex hormones and sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) in regard to the serum lipid and lipoprotein profiles of 82 Japanese postmenopausal women. A multiple regression analysis for lipids, lipoproteins, and apoproteins as dependent variables was performed. All regression models included the following variables as potential independent variables; BMI, percentage of body fat, waist-hip ratio, free testosterone (Free T) and SHBG. In addition, model A included insulin resistance evaluated by HOMA-R and model B included fasting insulin (FIRI). In model A, both Free T and HOMA-R were independent predictors of total-C (TC)/high-density lipoprotein-C (HDL-C) and low-density lipoprotein-C (LDL-C)/HDL-C. The BMI was independently associated with HDL-C. The Free T was a single independent predictor of TC and LDL-C. Both BMI and HOMA-R were independent predictors of triglyceride (TG). In addition, SHBG was also independently associated with apoprotein B (Apo B) and Apo B/Apo AI. In model B, FIRI was an independent predictor of lipid metabolism with similar results to those observed in model A. These results suggest that the lipid characteristics in postmenopausal women might be associated with insulin resistance and/or hyperinsulinemia, and relative hyperandrogenicity which thus induces an increase in the amount of Free T and a decrease in the SHBG within physiological ranges.
Altered balance between the 5 alpha-reductase and aromatase pathways of androgen metabolism during controlled ovarian hyperstimulation with human menopausal gonadotropins.	To evaluate androgen production and metabolism during controlled ovarian hyperstimulation.
The effects of metformin and diet on plasma testosterone and leptin levels in obese men.	The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of combined hypocaloric diet and metformin on circulating testosterone and leptin levels in obese men with or without type 2 diabetes.
Early effects of 5-fluorouracil, epirubicin and cyclophosphamide therapy on common laboratory tests.	Combination chemotherapy with 5-fluorouracil, epirubicin and cyclophosphamide (FEC) is now used for adjuvant therapy of breast cancer. The effects of FEC on common laboratory tests are important when interpreting test results during the treatment.
A randomized placebo-controlled crossover trial with phytoestrogens in treatment of menopause in breast cancer patients.	Phytoestrogens are popular in treatment of menopause, although scientific evidence is insufficient as to their efficacy. We studied the effects of daily use of isoflavonoids on climacteric symptoms and quality of life in patients with a history of breast cancer.
The androgenic sex hormone profile is an essential feature of metabolic syndrome in premenopausal women: a controlled community-based study.	To evaluate sex hormones in premenopausal white women with metabolic syndrome (MBS).
Central abdominal fat and endogenous hormones during the menopausal transition.	To investigate the effect of endogenous hormone levels on central abdominal fat during the menopausal transition in a population-based cohort of Australian-born women.
Relationship between sex hormone-binding globulin levels and features of the metabolic syndrome.	Previous studies have demonstrated that reduced plasma levels of sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) are related to alterations in several features of the metabolic syndrome in both men and women. We investigated whether SHBG level was a global predictor of the metabolic syndrome in a sample of 203 men, 173 premenopausal, and 46 postmenopausal women for whom we also obtained a detailed assessment of the metabolic profile, including body composition (hydrostatic weighing), abdominal adipose tissue areas (computed tomography), plasma lipid-lipoprotein levels, and glucose homeostasis (oral glucose challenge). Low SHBG levels were associated with increased total and abdominal adiposity in men as well as in pre- and postmenopausal women. Low SHBG levels were also associated with an altered metabolic profile, especially in premenopausal women. Subjects were subdivided according to the presence of 0, 1 to 2, or 3 or more features of the metabolic syndrome. Twenty-five percent of men were characterized by 3 features or more, whereas most premenopausal women (61.3%) had a healthy metabolic profile (0 features) and 6.9% were characterized by 3 or more features. Most postmenopausal women (54.3%) were characterized by 1 to 2 components of the metabolic syndrome, and 13.0% were characterized by 3 or more components. The proportion of subjects characterized by the metabolic syndrome (3 components or more) was lower in subjects with SHBG values in the upper tertile compared with the lower tertile in both men and premenopausal women (17.7% v 28.4% and 1.7% v 14.0%, respectively). Logistic regression analyses indicated that an SHBG level in the upper tertile was associated with a significant reduction in the probability of being characterized by the metabolic syndrome (odds ratios of 0.35, P =.02 for men and.11, P =.05 for premenopausal women, with the lower tertile as a reference). The logistic regression was not significant in postmenopausal women. These results suggest that plasma SHBG level may represent a significant predictor of the metabolic syndrome in men and premenopausal women.
Sex hormones and sexual function in obese men losing weight.	To study the impact of a weight-loss program on sex hormones and sexual function among 38 middle-aged obese men (BMI >or=35 kg/m(2)).
Effect of micronized progesterone on bone turnover in postmenopausal women on estrogen replacement therapy.	To determine whether daily oral micronized progesterone affects bone turnover, as estimated by serum and urine biochemical markers, in postmenopausal women on long-term estrogen replacement therapy (ERT).
First-trimester sex hormone binding globulin and subsequent gestational diabetes mellitus.	We sought to examine the association between early pregnancy levels of sex hormone binding globulin and subsequent gestational diabetes mellitus, an association that has not been studied previously.
Sex hormones and adipose tissue distribution in premenopausal cigarette smokers.	Androgen dominance is associated with android (abdominal) adiposity and increased health risk. Cigarette smoking has an anti-estrogenic effect in women and recent evidence has linked cigarette smoking with abdominally-localized adipose tissue. The relationship between cigarette smoking, endogenous sex steroid levels and adipose tissue distribution in women has not been examined. We assessed anthropometric indicators of fat distribution and serum levels of estradiol, testosterone and sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) in 56 women aged 20-35 years (27 cigarette smokers and 29 non-smokers). Free estradiol and testosterone were estimated. Endocrine and anthropometric variables were adjusted for overall fatness. Cigarette smokers had significantly higher mean serum levels of SHBG than non-smokers (63.38 nmol/l and 57.85 nmol/l, respectively; P less than 0.01); there were no differences in serum estradiol, testosterone or estimated free levels of these sex steroids. Cigarette smokers had a more android distribution of adipose tissue: significantly greater waist-to-hip ratio (WHR) (P less than 0.01), greater waist-to-thigh ratio (WTR) (P less than 0.02) and smaller thigh girth (P less than 0.05). Waist and umbilical girths were greater in cigarette smokers (P less than 0.0002), but there was no difference in the sum of central skinfold thicknesses (abdominal, iliac crest and supra-spinale). A significant interaction (P less than 0.05) of cigarette smoking with serum testosterone levels was observed in effects on WHR; the relative impact of serum testosterone upon abdominal adiposity was greater in cigarette smokers than in non-smokers. The results suggest that in premenopausal women, cigarette smoking promotes android adiposity by increasing abdominal fat deposition and decreasing femoral fat deposition via interactive effects with sex steroids. The results also suggest an effect of cigarette smoking on serum SHBG, independent of effects on androgen/estrogen balance.
Endocrine studies in male pseudohermaphroditism in childhood and adolescence.	The clinical and endocrine features of fifty cases of male pseudohermaphroditism and XY karyotype aged from 6 months to 20 years have been studied. Thirty-two subjects were pre-pubertal and eighteen, of whom ten developed gynaecomastia, were pubertal. A definite aetiology was established in 12%. 4% had deficient testosterone biosynthesis and 8% mixed gonadal dysgenesis. In the remaining 88% an aetiology of androgen unresponsiveness at the target areas is suggested. Hormonal investigations in these subjects showed that before puberty basal plasma testosterone and oestradiol were slightly but significantly elevated, whereas testosterone response to stimulation with human chorionic gonadotrophin was significantly diminished. In the pubertal subjects basal plasma testosterone, oestradiol, serum binding capacity of testosterone-oestradiol binding globulin and basal plasma LH were significantly elevated. These hormonal features in pubertal or post-pubertal male pseudohermaphrodites appear to be characteristic of androgen unresponsiveness. The presence in addition of elevated basal plasma testosterone and oestradiol in the pre-pubertal subjects suggest that some of these findings may be presented from early childhood.
IGF-I and testosterone levels as predictors of bone mineral density in healthy, community-dwelling men.	Age-related decline in IGF-I and gonadal hormones have been postulated to play an important role in the pathogenesis of age-related bone loss in men. In this cross-sectional study, the relation between serum IGF-I and gonadal hormones with bone mineral density (BMD) was examined in community-dwelling men.
Serum adiponectin levels in hypogonadal males: influence of testosterone replacement therapy.	Adiponectin is an adipocyte-specific secretory protein which exhibits antiatherogenic, anti-inflammatory and antidiabetic properties. We hypothesized that testosterone plays an important role in the regulation of its secretion in humans, as adiponectin concentrations are higher in women than in men and as testosterone administration is accompanied by a reduction in serum adiponectin in animals and by reduced protein secretion in cultured adipocytes. This study aimed to evaluate adiponectin levels in hypogonadal men prior to and during testosterone replacement therapy.
Sex hormones in hereditary angioneurotic oedema.	The fluctuations in sex hormone levels at the beginning of adolescence, in the perimenopausal period, during pregnancy or during the use of oral contraceptives can precipitate oedematous attacks in hereditary angioneurotic oedema (HANO). Attacks usually disappear after the onset of menopause. This study was undertaken to establish any relationship between the serum levels of sex hormones and the incidence of HANO attacks.
Changes in sex hormone-binding globulin and testosterone during weight loss and weight maintenance in abdominally obese men with the metabolic syndrome.	Mild hypoandrogenism in men, usually defined by low levels of testosterone, is a peculiar feature of abdominal obesity that independently predicts the development of insulin resistance and diabetes mellitus. Little is known about the short- and long-term effects of weight loss on sex steroids in abdominally obese men, however.
Hormone pattern after misoprostol administration for a nonviable first-trimester gestation.	To evaluate serial hormone concentrations in subjects treated with vaginally administered misoprostol for early pregnancy failure.
Case-control study of anthropometric measures and prostate cancer risk.	A population-based case-control study of 988 stage T2 or greater prostate cancer cases and 1063 controls was conducted in Alberta from November 1997 to December 2000 to examine the influence of anthropometric risk factors on the risk of prostate cancer using several different measures. An in-person interview was conducted, and all anthropometric measurements were taken using standardized methods. Respondents also recalled their body weight at each decade from age 20 to the referent year. Several anthropometric variables were derived, and unconditional logistic regression analyses were performed. The multivariable odds ratios, when comparing the highest to the lowest quartile were: for body mass index, OR = 1.12 (95% CI 0.85-1.47); for waist-hip ratio, OR = 1.07 (0.83-1.38); for height, OR = 0.78 (0.60-1.02); for weight, OR = 0.91 (0.70-1.18); for weight gain since age 20, OR = 0.91 (0.70-1.19); and for difference between minimum and maximum adult weight, OR = 0.89 (0.69-1.16). Our study provides evidence for no association between any measures of anthropometry including several derived measures of changes in weight over lifetime and prostate cancer risk.
Relationship of sex hormones to bone geometric properties and mineral density in early pubertal girls.	This study aimed to evaluate the associations among serum 17beta-estradiol (E2), testosterone (T), sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), bone geometric properties, and mineral density in 248 healthy girls between the ages of 10 and 13 yr old. The left tibial shaft was measured by peripheral quantitative computed tomography (Stratec XCT-2000; Stratec Medizintechnik, GmbH, Pforzheim, Germany). The cortical bone and marrow cavity areas were expressed as proportions of the total tibial cross-sectional area (CSA). Cortical thickness and total volumetric bone mineral density (vBMD) were also determined. These tibial geometric and densitometric measures were correlated against the serum sex hormone concentrations after controlling for age and body size. The results showed that E2 was negatively associated with marrow cavity proportion (r = -0.19, P = 0.003) and positively associated with cortical proportion and thickness and with total vBMD (r = 0.26, P < 0.001; r = 0.25, P < 0.001; and r = 0.23, P < 0.001, respectively). However, T was not associated with these bone variables. On the other hand, SHBG was positively associated with marrow cavity proportion (r = 0.17, P = 0.007) and negatively associated with cortical proportion and thickness and with total vBMD (r = -0.14, P = 0.029; r = -0.16, P = 0.010; and r = -0.18, P = 0.005, respectively). Total bone CSA did not correlate with E2, T, or SHBG. These results suggest that E2 has a positive effect on bone geometric and densitometric development by suppressing bone turnover at the endocortical surface during the early pubertal period, that SHBG plays an opposite role to E2, and that T has no detectable effect.
New methodology of influential point detection in regression model building for the prediction of metabolic clearance rate of glucose.	Identifying outliers and high-leverage points is a fundamental step in the least-squares regression model building process. The examination of data quality involves the detection of influential points, outliers and high-leverages, which cause many problems in regression analysis. On the basis of a statistical analysis of the residuals (classical, normalized, standardized, jackknife, predicted and recursive) and diagonal elements of a projection matrix, diagnostic plots for influential points indication are formed. The identification of outliers and high leverage points are combined with graphs for the identification of influence type based on the likelihood distance. The powerful procedure for the computation of influential points characteristics written in S-Plus is demonstrated on the model predicting the metabolic clearance rate of glucose (MCRg) that represents the ratio of the amount of glucose supplied to maintain blood glucose levels during the euglycemic clamp and the blood glucose concentration from common laboratory and anthropometric indices. MCRg reflects insulin sensitivity filtering-off the effect of blood glucose. The prediction of clamp parameters should enable us to avoid the demanding clamp examination, which is connected with a higher load and risk for patients.
Differential effects of antiepileptic drugs on sexual function and reproductive hormones in men with epilepsy: interim analysis of a comparison between lamotrigine and enzyme-inducing antiepileptic drugs.	We compared sexual function and reproductive hormone levels among men with localization-related epilepsy (LRE) taking various antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) and normal controls (NC).
Serum androgen levels and testicular structure during pubertal maturation in male subjects with epilepsy.	To evaluate reproductive endocrine function in boys and young men with epilepsy taking an antiepileptic drug in a population-based, controlled study.
Is there a clinical relevance of partial androgen deficiency of the aging male?	Aging in men is characterized by a progressive, generally moderate decrease in plasma testosterone (T) levels and T substitution is increasingly prescribed. However, the association of partial androgen deficiency of the aging male with clinical symptoms and the ideal screening test are controversial. We investigate the association between various T measures and clinical and biochemical parameters of the aging male.
An abnormality of the growth hormone/insulin-like growth factor-I axis in women with polycystic ovary syndrome due to coexistent obesity.	In order to evaluate the GH/insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) axis in the polycystic ovary syndrome (PCO), 21 women aged 18-38 yr were studied. The GH responses to the GH-releasing hormone (GHRH), and plasma concentrations of IGF-I were measured in seven obese women with PCO, seven obese healthy controls without PCO, and in seven nonobese subjects. Total GH secretion, as expressed by the integrated GH response to GHRH, in PCO obese women (617.4 +/- 150 micrograms/L.min) and in obese women without PCO (327.1 +/- 161.4 micrograms/L.min) were lower than that in nonobese healthy controls (3181.4 +/- 644.3 micrograms/L.min, P less than 0.001 and P less than 0.001, respectively). Plasma concentrations of IGF-I in obese PCO women (199.5 +/- 39.1 micrograms/L), and in obese women without PCO (192.4 +/- 36.8 micrograms/L) were similar to the IGF-I levels in nonobese controls (224.3 +/- 33.2 micrograms/L). In obese women with and without PCO, a negative correlation was found between the body mass index and the peak GH responses to GHRH (r = -0.639, P less than 0.02) and between age and IGF-I levels (r = -0.520, P less than 0.05). These findings suggest that an abnormality of the GH/IGF-I axis in PCO women may be due to coexistent obesity.
Plasma testosterone and sexual function in men receiving buprenorphine maintenance for opioid dependence.	High-dose methadone is well known to cause testosterone deficiency and sexual dysfunction in opioid-dependent men. Buprenorphine is a new drug for the pharmacotherapy of opioid dependence. Its influence on the gonadal axis has not been investigated to date. We therefore assayed testosterone, free testosterone, estradiol, SHBG, LH, FSH, and prolactin in 17 men treated with buprenorphine. Thirty-seven men treated with high-dose methadone and 51 healthy blood donors served as controls. Sexual function and depression were assessed using a self-rating sexual function questionnaire and the Beck Depression Inventory. Patients treated with buprenorphine had a significantly higher testosterone level [5.1 +/- 1.2 ng/ml (17.7 +/- 4.2 nmol/liter) vs. 2.8 +/- 1.2 ng/ml (9.7 +/- 4.2 nmol/liter); P < 0.0001] and a significantly lower frequency of sexual dysfunction (P < 0.0001) compared with patients treated with methadone. The testosterone level of buprenorphine-treated patients did not differ from that of healthy controls. In conclusion, we demonstrated for the first time that buprenorphine, in contrast with high-dose methadone, seems not to suppress plasma testosterone in heroin-addicted men. To this effect, buprenorphine was less frequently related to sexual side effects. Buprenorphine might therefore be favored in the treatment of opioid dependence to prevent patients from the clinical consequences of methadone-induced hypogonadism.
Novel male hormonal contraceptive combinations: the hormonal and spermatogenic effects of testosterone and levonorgestrel combined with a 5alpha-reductase inhibitor or gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonist.	We postulated that the addition of a combined types I and II, 5alpha-reductase inhibitor (dutasteride) or long-acting GnRH antagonist (acyline) to combination testosterone plus levonorgestrel treatment may be advantageous in the suppression of spermatogenesis for male contraception. This study aimed to examine effects of novel combination contraceptive regimens on serum gonadotropins and androgens and sperm concentration.This study was divided into three phases: screening (2 wk), treatment (8 wk), and recovery (4 wk). Twenty-two men (n = 5-6/group) received 8 wk of treatment with testosterone enanthate (TE, 100 mg im weekly) combined with one of the following: 1) levonorgestrel (LNG) 125 mug orally daily; 2) LNG 125 microg plus dutasteride 0.5 mg orally daily; 3) acyline 300 microg/kg sc every 2 wk (as a comparator for any additional progestin effects); or 4) LNG 125 microg orally daily plus acyline 300 microg/kg sc every 2 wk. Serum gonadotropin levels were similarly suppressed by all treatments, falling to a nadir between 1.2 and 3.4% and 0.5 and 0.8% baseline for FSH and LH, respectively (P < 0.05). Serum dihydrotestosterone levels were significantly (P < 0.05) decreased in the dutasteride group throughout the treatment period to a nadir of 31% baseline (wk 7). No significant differences in sperm concentrations among treatment groups were seen. Severe oligospermia (0.1-3 million/ml) or azoospermia was seen in none of five and four of five in TE + LNG; two of six and four of six in TE + LNG + dutasteride; two of six and four of six in TE + acyline; and one of five and three of five in TE + LNG + acyline groups, respectively. There was one nonresponder in each of the TE + LNG and TE + LNG + acyline groups.We conclude that the addition of a combined types I and II, 5alpha-reductase inhibitor or long-acting GnRH antagonist to a testosterone plus LNG regimen provides no additional suppression of gonadotropins or sperm concentration over an 8-wk treatment period. However, further evaluation of the effects of these regimens on the testis (including testicular steroid levels and germ cell maturation) and the treatment of larger numbers of men (and for longer periods) may provide data to support their place in contraceptive development.
Associations of sex-hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) with non-SHBG-bound levels of testosterone and estradiol in independently living men.	Results of in vitro experiments indicate that with increasing concentrations of SHBG, testosterone (T) is preferentially bound to SHBG in comparison with estradiol (E2). In these studies, the ratio of non-SHBG-bound E2 (non-SHBG-E2) to non-SHBG-T increased with increasing levels of SHBG. SHBG has consequently been regarded as an estrogen amplifier. In this cross-sectional study in 399 men aged between 40 and 80 yr we tested whether higher levels of SHBG are associated with a higher estrogen/androgen ratio in vivo. The mean T level of these men was in the eugonadal range [536 +/- 152 ng/dl (18.6 +/- 5.26 nmol/liter), mean +/- sd]. With increasing SHBG levels the non-SHBG-bound fraction of T decreased from 80 to 36% and that of E2 from 89 to 53%. Higher levels of SHBG were associated with higher levels of both total T [regression coefficient (beta) after adjustment for age and body mass index, 286 +/- 15.8; P < 0.001] and total E2 (beta = 4.47 +/- 0.90; P < 0.001). However, SHBG levels were negatively related with levels of non-SHBG-E2 (beta = -1.78 +/- 0.69; P < 0.001), whereas there was a positive association between levels of SHBG and non-SHBG-T (beta = 32.0 +/- 9.78; P = 0.001). Furthermore, we observed a negative relationship between SHBG levels and the E2/T ratio of either total (beta = -0.016 +/- 0.002; P < 0.001) or non-SHBG-bound (beta = -0.011 +/- 0.002; P < 0.001) hormone. Therefore, we conclude that in eugonadal men, higher SHBG levels are associated with lower levels of non-SHBG-E2 but slightly higher levels of non-SHBG-T. This means that SHBG cannot be regarded as an estrogen amplifier in eugonadal men.
Tamoxifen and megestrol acetate for postmenopausal breast cancer: diverging effects on liver proteins, androgens, and glucocorticoids.	To compare the effects of tamoxifen and megestrol acetate on liver proteins, androgens, and glucocorticoids during adjuvant treatment for postmenopausal breast cancer.
Low free testosterone is an independent risk factor for Alzheimer's disease.	The purpose of this study was to assess pituitary gonadotropins and free testosterone levels in a larger cohort of men with Alzheimer's disease (AD, n=112) and age-matched controls (n=98) from the Oxford Project to Investigate Memory and Ageing (OPTIMA). We measured gonadotropins (follicle stimulating hormone, FSH, and luteinizing hormone, LH), sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG, which determines the amount of free testosterone) and total testosterone (TT) using enzyme immunoassays. AD cases had significantly higher LH and FSH and lower free testosterone levels. LH, FSH and SHBG all increased with age, while free testosterone decreased. Low free testosterone was an independent predictor for AD. Its variance was overall explained by high SHBG, low TT, high LH, an older age and low body mass index (BMI). In controls, low thyroid stimulating hormone levels were also associated with low free testosterone. Elderly AD cases had raised levels of gonadotropins. This response may be an attempt to normalize low free testosterone levels. In non-demented participants, subclinical hyperthyroid disease (a risk factor for AD) which can result in higher SHBG levels, was associated with low free testosterone. Lowering SHBG and/or screening for subclinical thyroid disease may prevent cognitive decline and/or wasting in men at risk for AD.
Testicular and blood steroid levels in aged men.	In this study, we have evaluated the hypophyso-gonadal axis in three groups of men aged 60-69, 70-79 and 80-91 years by measuring the intratesticular concentrations of several steroids (pregnenolone, progesterone, DHEA, DHEA-S, testosterone, estradiol) and serum levels of FSH, LH, testosterone, estradiol and sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG). The histological examination of testes revealed normal spermatogenesis in all examined samples. No significant changes in serum hormone and SHBG concentrations as well as in testicular steroid contents among the three groups of patients were found. However, the mean serum SHBG level was three times higher in the oldest men than in other groups and a positive correlation between patient's age and serum SHBG was observed. Therefore, the bioavailability of estradiol in the oldest men was likely diminished. Consequently, the hormonal status in aged men is rather unchanged but great variations observed between patients imply special cautious when the SHBG and estradiol levels are concerned.
Combined use of metformin and ethinyl estradiol-cyproterone acetate in polycystic ovary syndrome.	The aim of our study was to compare the effect of metformin applied independently to the effect of metformin used in combination with oral contraceptive containing ethinyl estradiol (EE) and cyproterone acetate (CA).
Vascular endothelial growth factor and insulin-like growth factor-1 in polycystic ovary syndrome and their relation to ovarian blood flow.	(1) To determine the serum levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). (2) To study Doppler blood flow changes within the ovarian stroma of women with PCOS. (3) To evaluate the relationship between VEGF and IGF-1 and Doppler indices as well as hormonal profile.
Evaluation of a new automated electrochemiluminescent sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) immunoassay.	Serum sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) regulates the cellular bioavailability of SHBG-bound steroid hormones. Since variations in SHBG levels may affect the concentration of free, i.e., biologically active testosterone in serum, SHBG levels are commonly measured as a supplement to total testosterone determination. The recently developed electrochemiluminescence Elecsys SHBG immunoassay was evaluated analytically on a Modular E170 (Roche Diagnostics, Mannheim, Germany) immunoanalyzer. Major differences in SHBG concentrations have been described among the commercially available methods; we therefore compared the new method with an established SHBG immunoradiometric assay (IRMA) in 99 routine serum samples. To provide reference values to clinicians, SHBG concentration was measured by Elecsys in 304 serum samples from healthy volunteers and several relevant clinical subgroups. The within-run and total imprecision coefficients of variation were </=2.9% and </=3.3%, respectively. Functional sensitivity was at least 0.74 nmol/L. Recoveries after dilution of high-concentration samples in low-titer human serum or in assay diluent were within the range of 85-110%. The Elecsys SHBG assay correlated well (r=0.98) with the SHBG immunoradiometric assay, but values were higher for the Elecsys assay (Passing Bablok regression analysis: slope 1.14, intercept +2.5). In healthy subjects and clinical subgroups, we confirmed the differences in SHBG values reported in the literature. The Elecsys SHBG immunoassay provides precision and reliability in combination with reduced turnaround time.
Cigarette smoking, steroid hormones, and bone mineral density in young women.	There are few studies of the effect of smoking on bone density in young women. The reported antiestrogenic effect of smoking could be a mechanism for a possible effect of smoking on bone. We measured bone mineral density (BMD) by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (whole body, proximal femur, lumbar spine), and serum levels (mid-follicular phase) of testosterone (T), estradiol (E2), sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), and cortisol in 52 women (25 smokers, 27 nonsmokers) aged 20-35 years. The two groups did not differ significantly in age, height, weight, or the sum of eight skinfold thicknesses. The mean number of cigarettes smoked per day and the number of years of smoking were 16.9 and 12.9, respectively. There were no significant differences in BMD between smokers and nonsmokers at any site. For both smokers and nonsmokers, SHBG and the free androgen index (T/SHBG) made significant contributions (P less than 0.005) to the variance in BMD at all sites except the lumbar spine. The free estradiol index (E2/SHBG) contributed to whole body BMD (P less than 0.05). For all subjects, there were significant inverse relationships between SHBG and BMD (P less than 0.002), and positive relationships between T/SHBG and BMD (P less than 0.02) for all sites except the lumbar spine. These data suggest that moderate smoking in young women is not associated with low BMD at any site. However, smokers had lower free estradiol and higher SHBG, both of which have been related to increased bone loss in older women.
Evaluation of ovarian functionality after a dietary treatment in obese women with polycystic ovary syndrome.	In women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) weight loss is associated with an improvement in insulin sensitivity and a reduction of the insulin concentration in the plasma. It is clear, then, that the first therapeutic approach that can be considered in obese PCOS patients for restoration of the menstrual cycle should be a diet. The aim of our study was to examine the effect of long-term caloric restriction on the clinical and biochemical abnormalities in obese PCOS women. The results obtained make it clear that caloric restriction for 4 weeks causes an increase in SHBG and decreases of free testosterone and insulin, with consequent improvement of the clinical picture.
Androgen receptor content following heavy resistance exercise in men.	The purpose of the present investigation was to examine androgen receptor (AR) content in the vastus lateralis following two resistance exercise protocols of different volume. Nine resistance-trained men (age=24.3+/-4.4 years) performed the squat exercise for 1 (SS) and 6 sets (MS) of 10 repetitions in a random, counter-balanced order. Muscle biopsies were performed at baseline, and 1h following each protocol. Blood was collected prior to, immediately following (IP), and every 15 min after each protocol for 1h. No acute elevations in serum total testosterone were observed following SS, whereas significant 16-23% elevations were observed at IP, 15, and 30 min post-exercise following MS. No acute elevations in plasma cortisol were observed following SS, whereas significant 31-49% elevations were observed for MS at IP, 15, and 30 min post-exercise. Androgen receptor content did not change 1h following SS but significantly decreased by 46% following MS. These results demonstrated that a higher volume of resistance exercise resulted in down-regulation of AR content 1h post-exercise. This may have been due to greater protein catabolism associated with the higher level of stress following higher-volume resistance exercise.
Plasma 3 alpha, 17 beta-androstanediol glucuronide concentrations in normally menstruating Chinese women.	Hirsutism is rare in oriental women. In order to define the androgen metabolism in these women, plasma levels of androstanediol glucuronide (AG) along with testosterone (T), androstenedione (delta 4A), dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHAS) and sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) were determined in samples collected from 22 normally menstruating Chinese women. Their ages were 37.7 +/- 7.2 years (mean +/- S. D.) with a range of 27 to 46 years. All were born of Chinese parents. None were on any hormonal medication for at least one year. Compared to our local controls, no significant differences were observed in plasma androgens and SHBG concentrations. Comparable levels of AG, delta 4A and T in these two groups suggest that in Chinese women, under basal conditions, the androgen metabolism is comparable to their north american counterparts.
Maternal serum steroid levels are unrelated to fetal sex: a study in twin pregnancies.	Increased prenatal exposure to testosterone (T) in females of an opposite-sex (OS) twin pair may have an effect on the development of sex-typical cognitive and behavioral patterns. The prenatal exposure to T due to hormone transfer in OS twin females may occur in two ways, one directly via the feto-fetal transfer route within the uterus, the other indirectly through maternal-fetal transfer and based in the maternal-fetal compartment. Although some studies in singletons indeed found that women pregnant with a male fetus have higher T levels during gestation than women pregnant with a female fetus, many other studies could not find any relation between the sex of the fetus and maternal serum steroid levels. Therefore at present it is unclear whether a pregnant woman bearing a male has higher levels of T than a woman bearing a female. Up to this point, no-one has investigated this issue in twin pregnancies. We examined the relationship between maternal serum steroid levels and sex of fetus in 17 female-female, 9 male-male and 29 OS twin pregnancies. No differences were observed between the maternal serum steroid levels of women expecting single-sex and mixed-sex offspring. It is concluded that the source of prenatal T exposure in females probably comes from the fetal unit, which is the direct route of fetal hormone transfer.
Increased plasma 5 alpha-androstane-3 alpha,17 beta-diol glucuronide concentration in clinically euthyroid women with suppressed plasma thyrotropin levels: further evidence for generalized tissue overexposure to thyroid hormones in these subjects.	It has been reported that plasma levels of 5 alpha-androstane-3 alpha,17 beta-diol glucuronide (ADG) are increased in thyrotoxic patients. The present study was carried out to determine whether in clinically euthyroid subjects with suppressed TSH levels, ADG plasma levels would also be increased, suggesting a more generalized tissue overexposure to thyroid hormones. The latter has been suggested from increased sex hormone-binding globulin levels (SHBG) in these subjects. ADG and SHBG levels were measured in a group of 20 euthyroid postmenopausal women, 20 postmenopausal women with clinically evident thyrotoxicosis, and 16 euthyroid postmenopausal women with suppressed TSH levels. The mean ADG level in the thyrotoxic group was 4 times the mean level in the control group, whereas in the group with isolated TSH suppression the mean level was about twice the level in the control group. As levels of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, the major precursor of plasma ADG, were not significantly increased in these subjects, these data suggest an increased conversion of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate to ADG. Together with the increased SHBG levels observed in both thyrotoxic and euthyroid subjects with suppressed serum TSH concentrations, these data support the concept that the TSH-suppressed euthyroid subjects have generalized increased thyroid hormone effects on peripheral tissues.
Oxidative and nonoxidative glucose disposal in elderly vs younger men with similar and smaller body mass indices and waist circumferences.	Defects in oxidative and nonoxidative glucose metabolism may be involved in the insulin resistance of aging, possibly linked to a central redistribution of body fat. By hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamps with whole-body indirect calorimetry, we assessed the contributions of oxidative and nonoxidative glucose disposal to insulin action in 12 elderly persons and 2 groups of younger subjects (14 in each) who had participated in a large population study. Subjects from Young-1 were individually matched to the elderly persons by body mass index and had similar waist circumferences, whereas subjects from Young-2 had a body mass index typical of their age group in the population study and smaller waist measurements. In the combined sample, we also considered possible determinants, related to age and central fat, of flux through these metabolic pathways. The elderly persons had lower nonoxidative glucose disposal compared with the men in Young-2 ( P = .0450 by analysis of variance), whereas glucose oxidation did not differ between the groups. Glucose oxidation correlated negatively with waist circumferences, triglycerides, and alanine aminotransferase and positively with total testosterone and sex hormone-binding globulin. Nonoxidative glucose metabolism correlated inversely with waist circumferences, triglycerides, and free fatty acids and positively with maximum O 2 consumption and total testosterone. In the best regression models, alanine aminotransferase and triglycerides were negatively associated with glucose oxidation (model R 2 = 39%), whereas lower baseline free fatty acids and higher maximum O 2 consumption and sex hormone-binding globulin predicted enhanced nonoxidative glucose metabolism (model R 2 = 47%). These results substantiate that measures to avert abdominal adiposity may prevent insulin resistance and its related metabolic derangements in elderly persons.
Testicular function in hyperthyroidism.	Testicular function was assessed in nine men aged 17 to 35 years and seven men aged 36 to 46 years with Graves' disease. Levels of total testosterone, estradiol, sex hormone binding globulin, luteinizing hormone, and follicle stimulating hormone, and gonadotropin responses to gonadotropin releasing hormone were significantly greater than these levels and responses in age-matched controls. Although the percentage of free testosterone was lower than control values in the hyperthyroid men, calculated levels of free testosterone were not different from normal. Lower than normal percentages of free estradiol values resulted in higher than normal calculated free estradiol levels. As a result, the free testosterone/free estradiol ratio in the men with Graves' disease was lower than normal. Although mean sperm densities in the hyperthyroid men were not different from control values, the percent forward progressive motility of sperm from these men was significantly lower than control values. The hormonal and seminal abnormalities corrected when the patients became euthyroid after radioiodine therapy. The results of this study indicate that hyperthyroid men may have abnormalities in their hypothalamic-pituitary-testicular axes.
Association among hypogonadism, quality of life and erectile dysfunction in middle-aged and aged male in Taiwan.	The association between hypogonadism, quality of life (QoL), and erectile dysfunction (ED) among the middle-aged and aged male in Taiwan is evaluated. A total of 680 study subjects aged >or=40 years old were recruited from Northern (n=276), Middle (n=238), and Southern (n=202) Taiwan, respectively. ED was diagnosed by score of International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF-5). Taiwan version questionnaire for QoL includes domain 1 (physical domain), domain 2 (psychological domain), domain 3 (social relationship domain), and domain 4 (environmental domain) was used to measure QoL. Blood hormones, including FSH, LH, Prolactin, SHBG, total testosterone (TT), calculated free testosterone (cFT), and bioavailable testosterone (Bio-T), were determined. Logistic regression analysis was used to estimate crude and multivariate-adjusted odds ratio of risk factors and its 95% confidence interval. A significantly inverse association between concentration of serum cFT and Bio-T, and severity of ED was observed. Scores of QoL of Domain 1-4 were significantly decreased with the increament of severity of ED. Significant correlations were found between IIEF scores and four domains of QoL, respectively. After adjustment for age, cFT and Bio-T, study subjects with ED (IIEF<or=21) would have significantly high risk of low level of QoL in four domains. In conclusion, a significant association between low levels of serum calculated cFT, Bio-T, and severity of ED was found. In addition, abnormal erectile function significantly associated with low level of QoL in four domains.
The role of androgens in the late-premenopausal woman with adenomatous hyperplasia of the endometrium.	To examine the possible role of androgens in hyperplasia of the endometrium, the concentrations of testosterone (T), androstenedione (A), dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEA-S), sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), estradiol (E2), follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH), were measured in peripheral venous serum obtained from 42 premenopausal women with adenomatous hyperplasia of the endometrium (group A) and from 18 women without hyperplasia (group B). In patients with hyperplasia of the endometrium, significantly higher peripheral venous concentrations were found for all androgens (P less than 0.05) and estradiol (P less than 0.001) than in control patients. In contrast, there was no statistically significant difference in the mean serum values of SHBG as well as in gonadotropins among the population of compared groups. We conclude that apart from the increased estrogenic activity in patients with adenomatous hyperplasia of the endometrium, androgens may play a significant role.
Polycystic ovary syndrome in bulimic women--an evaluation based on the new diagnostic criteria.	An association between bulimia nervosa and polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) has been suggested but also questioned. Since there is still a controversy about this issue, we investigated clinical and biochemical symptoms of PCOS according to the new diagnostic criteria in a large group of bulimic women compared with controls. Seventy-seven women with bulimia and 59 matched healthy women were investigated with respect to menstrual status, polycystic ovaries, hirsutism, acne and sex hormone levels. We found increased occurrence of menstrual disturbances, hirsutism and PCOS in bulimic women, whereas ovarian variables and acne did not differ from controls. Hirsutism score and indices of biologically active testosterone were positively correlated in bulimics but not in controls, while there were no major differences in serum androgens. In conclusion, this study supports an increased frequency of PCOS in bulimic women and may also indicate increased androgen sensitivity in these women. PCOS may promote bulimic behavior since androgens have appetite-stimulating effects and could impair impulse control. Menstrual disturbances and clinical signs of hyperandrogenism should be evaluated in bulimics in order to provide adequate medical care and treatment.
Association of hormonal dysregulation with metabolic syndrome in older women: data from the InCHIANTI study.	Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is a strong risk factor for type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Conditions associated with hyperandrogenism are often associated with glucose intolerance and other features of MetS in young women. As the prevalence of MetS increases with age and is probably multifactorial, it is reasonable to hypothesize that age-related changes in androgens and other hormones might contribute to the development of MetS in older persons. However, this hypothesis has never been tested in older women. We hypothesized that high levels of testosterone, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEA-S), and cortisol and low levels of sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) and IGF-I would be associated with MetS in a representative cohort of older Italian women independently of confounders (including inflammatory markers). After exclusion of participants on hormone replacement therapy and those with a history of bilateral oophorectomy, 512 women (>/=65 yr) had complete data on testosterone, cortisol, DHEA-S, SHBG, fasting insulin, total and free IGF-I, IL-6, and C-reactive protein (CRP). MetS was defined according to ATP-III criteria. Insulin resistance was calculated according to HOMA. MetS was found in 145 women (28.3%). Participants with vs. those without MetS had higher age-adjusted levels of bioavailable testosterone (P < 0.001), IL-6 (P < 0.001), CRP (P < 0.001), and HOMA (P < 0.001) and lower levels of SHBG (P < 0.001). After adjustment for potential confounders, participants with decreased SHBG had an increased risk of MetS (P < 0.0001) vs. those with low SHBG. In a further model including all hormones and confounders, log SHBG was the only independent factor associated with MetS (OR: 0.44, 95% CI 0.21-0.91, P = 0.027). In older women, SHBG is negatively associated with MetS independently of confounders, including inflammatory markers and insulin resistance. Further studies are needed to support the notion that raising SHBG is a potential therapeutic target for prevention and treatment of MetS.
Changes in BMI modulate age-associated changes in sex hormone binding globulin and total testosterone, but not bioavailable testosterone in young adult men: the CARDIA Male Hormone Study.	To compare age-associated 8-year changes in total testosterone, calculated bioavailable testosterone and sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) across five groups of men stratified according to change in body mass index (BMI) (i.e., BMI stable (+/-0.69 kg/m(2)), decreased (-0.7 kg/m(2)), increased minimally (0.7-1.74 kg/m(2)), increased moderately (1.75-3.19 kg/m(2)) and increased most (> or =3.20 kg/m(2))).
Sex hormone status may modulate rate of expansion of proximal femur diameter in older women alongside other skeletal regulators.	Little is known of associations between hip geometry and skeletal regulators. This is important because geometry is a determinant of both hip function and resistance to fracture.
Maternal testosterone in pregnancy and atopic outcomes in childhood.	In mice, androgens downregulate Th2 cytokine responses, but whether androgen levels during pregnancy might influence the development of allergy in the offspring has not been studied.
Effect of long-term orlistat treatment on serum levels of advanced glycation end-products in women with polycystic ovary syndrome.	BACKGROUND Women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) exhibit elevated serum advanced glycation end-products (AGE) compared with healthy subjects. Short-term administration of orlistat has been shown to reduce the postmeal increase in serum AGE levels in women with PCOS and in controls.
A diurnal variation in testicular hormone production is maintained following gonadotrophin suppression in normal men.	A diurnal variation in serum testosterone in adult men is well recognized, but whether this occurs during exogenous testosterone administration and the degree to which it is endogenous to the testis is unclear.
Endocrine profiles and neuropsychologic correlates of functional hypothalamic amenorrhea in adolescents.	To determine trigger factors and neuropsychologic correlates of functional hypothalamic amenorrhea (FHA) in adolescence and to evaluate the correlations with the endocrine-metabolic profile.
Relation of body mass and sex steroid hormone levels to hot flushes in a sample of mid-life women.	Previous studies indicate that obesity is associated with a higher risk of experiencing hot flushes in mid-life women. The reasons for this association are unknown, although altered hormone levels have been associated with both hot flushes and obesity. Thus, this current study tested the hypothesis that obesity is associated with hot flushes in mid-life women through a mechanism involving levels of total and free androgen, free estrogen, progesterone, and sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG).
Metabolic characteristics of women with polycystic ovaries and oligo-amenorrhoea but normal androgen levels: implications for the management of polycystic ovary syndrome.	Application of the newly introduced Rotterdam criteria for polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) generates four phenotypic subgroups, defined by the presence/absence of three diagnostic elements: polycystic ovarian (PCO) morphology (P); hyperandrogenism (H); and oligo-amenorrhoea (O). Whilst PCOS is associated with adverse metabolic features, the strength of the association within individual subgroups is not established. We characterized the metabolic and endocrine profiles of PCOS women who are oligomenorrhoeic but normoandrogenaemic, and compared these to other PCOS women and controls.
Chromosomal mosaicism mitigates stigmata and cardiovascular risk factors in Turner syndrome.	To study genotype-phenotype correlations in Turner syndrome (TS) regarding body composition, cardiovascular risk factors, stigmata and age at diagnosis vs. degree of mosaicism estimated as the percentage of 45,X and 46,XX cells.
Serum sex steroid hormones and lower urinary tract symptoms in Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES III).	To evaluate the association of circulating sex steroid hormones and sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) with lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS).
Evaluation of the possible interaction of the antifungal triazole SCH 39304 with oral contraceptives in normal healthy women.	The possible interaction of the newly developed triazole antifungal SCH 39304 with low-dose combined oral contraceptives (OCs) was studied in 15 healthy women. Serum levels of ovarian and adrenocortical steroids and sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) were analyzed in samples collected during the OC cycles immediately before, during and after the administration of SCH 39304. The drug was given as a single 400-mg oral dose on day 7 in the second cycle. SCH 39304 did not interfere with the ovulatory inhibitory action of low-dose combined OCs as judged from serum progesterone values. Administration of SCH 39304 caused minor decreases in serum SHBG, cortisol and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate. The mechanism(s) behind these minor changes is not known.
Group comparison of serum ethinyl estradiol, SHBG and CBG levels in 83 women using two low-dose combination oral contraceptives for three months.	Serum ethinyl estradiol (EE2), sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) and corticosteroid-binding globulin (CBG) concentrations were studied in healthy young women randomly allocated to one of two low-dose combination oral contraceptives containing 30 micrograms EE2 and either 75 micrograms gestodene (F) or 150 micrograms desogestrel (M) per unit. There was either no (formerly non-pill users) or one (pill users) wash-out cycle before the study started with a pill-free pretreatment cycle in which the hormone status and basal SHBG and CBG levels were measured. Treatment was for three months. During treatment cycles 1 and 3, there were three test days each. Seven serum samples were obtained up to four hours and one sample 24 hours after intake of the first, tenth and the last (21st) pill. Additional samples were taken prior to morning ingestion of pills 5 and 15. For each individual and each test day, a representative serum pool has been constructed for SHBG and CBG analysis. EE2 concentrations were analyzed in all individual samples by means of a specific and sensitive RIA using anti-EE2-6 beta-CMO-BSA antiserum. Area under the curves (AUC) up to 4 and 24 hours, Cmax and tmax were evaluated and compared between the two treatment groups (n = 40 for F, n = 43 for M). SHBG and CBG concentrations were measured using commercially available immunoassay kits. Groups were large enough to detect a difference in group means of 75% of one standard deviation (alpha = 0.05, 1-beta = 0.9) of target variables, which is equivalent to 28 pg EE2/ml for Cmax, 69 pg.h.ml-1 for AUCEE2 0-4h, 257 pg.h.ml-1 for AUCEE2 0-24h, 39 nmol/l SHBG and 13.4 micrograms CBG/ml. Results clearly demonstrate that there were no differences between the two treatment groups in any of the target variables at any of the six test days distributed over a three-month period. Mean SHBG and CBG pretreatment levels of about 70 nmol/l and 37 micrograms/ml, respectively, increased to about 210 nmol/l and 88 micrograms/ml during the first treatment cycle and to about 230 nmol/l and 93 micrograms/ml during the third treatment cycle. Whereas the time of maximum EE2 serum levels did not differ significantly between test days, Cmax, AUCEE2 0-4h and AUCEE2 0-24h values increased by 30-35% or 40-50%, respectively, when test days 10 and 21 were compared to test day 1. Similar results were found for the third treatment cycle.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Longitudinal assessment of changes in reproductive hormones during normal pregnancy.	The concentrations of hormones measured in serum from maternal blood change dramatically during pregnancy. While the relative contributions of sex steroids shift from maternal ovaries and adrenals to the fetoplacental unit, other maternal tissues such as pituitary and liver respond to increasing concentrations of estrogen and secrete increasing amounts of prolactin and sex-hormone-binding globulin. To determine longitudinal changes in circulating maternal hormones, we collected blood from 60 women on three occasions during their pregnancies. We observed a 1.7-fold increase in testosterone concentration in serum; concentrations of sex-hormone-binding globulin in serum rose 5.6-fold. The major increase (6.8-fold) in estradiol in serum occurred within the first 16 weeks, followed by a further 4.8-fold increase by term. Mean concentrations of progesterone, 17-hydroxyprogesterone, and androstenedione in serum increased 11.9-, 3-, and 1.3-fold, respectively, whereas concentrations of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS) fell by 50%. Mean serum prolactin concentrations increased 3.8-fold during the first trimester and by a similar amount during the final 24 weeks of pregnancy. We used these data, obtained from a cohort of women with uncomplicated pregnancies, to construct reference intervals for hormones in maternal serum.
Androgens may mediate a relative preservation of IGF-I levels in overweight and obese women despite reduced growth hormone secretion.	Obesity is characterized by reduced GH secretion, but data regarding IGF-I levels and their determinants are conflicting.
Subclinical impairment of left ventricular function in young obese women: contributions of polycystic ovary disease and insulin resistance.	Obesity and insulin resistance (IR) may produce disturbances of left ventricular (LV) function. Obese women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCO), characterized by hormonal and metabolic abnormalities, are thought to be at particularly increased cardiovascular risk.
Clinical features and circulating gonadotropin, insulin, and androgen interactions in women with polycystic ovarian disease.	To investigate the interactions of hyperinsulinemia and inappropriate gonadotropin secretion in women with polycystic ovarian disease (PCOD).
Fertility, pregnancies and offspring complications after bone marrow transplantation.	Hormonal assessment including luteotropic hormone (LH), follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), testosterone (T), oestradiol and sex hormone binding globulin was performed 1-6 years after allogeneic, syngeneic and autologous bone marrow transplantation in nine patients with severe aplastic anaemia (SAA) and 14 patients with haematological malignancy (HM). Among nine allografted SAA patients, seven aged less than 26 years showed normal gonadal function while two women above 26 years had premature ovarian failure. All eight female patients transplanted for HM had premature ovarian failure. Among six male patients transplanted for HM, four have elevated FSH but normal LH and T levels, while two have normal LH, FSH and T levels or elevated LH and FSH levels but decreased T levels, respectively. Three patients transplanted for SAA (two female, one male), but none of those transplanted for HM, parented four healthy children. A high incidence of offspring complications was noticed, including (i) persistence of fetal circulation syndrome, (ii) erythroblastosis fetalis, and (iii) prolonged newborn icterus. One female patient transplanted for SAA had an abortion in the 25th week of gestation. These observations confirm previous reports on recovery of fertility, mainly in younger patients transplanted for SAA; there was, however, an unexpectedly high incidence of pre-, peri- and postpartum complications in the offspring of bone marrow graft recipients.
Effects of pravastatin and cholestyramine on gonadal and adrenal steroid production in familial hypercholesterolaemia.	1. Adrenal and gonadal steroids are derived from cholesterol, which may be derived from plasma lipoproteins or de novo synthesis. 2. Inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase, the rate limiting enzyme in cholesterol synthesis, may therefore affect steroidogenesis when used as lipid-lowering agents in hypercholesterolaemia. 3. We have assessed gonadal and adrenal function in subjects with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) before and after 12 weeks treatment with pravastatin, an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor, or cholestyramine as a control in maximal recommended doses. 4. No changes in measured plasma cortisol responses to tetracosactrin injection were seen in 11 patients on cholestyramine or 12 on pravastatin. 5. No changes were seen in testosterone, sex hormone binding globulin, androstenedione, dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate, oestradiol or 17 alpha-hydroxyprogesterone. 6. Gonadotrophin levels were unaffected in 10 male subjects on cholestyramine and 7 on pravastatin. 7. Measurements on a subset of subjects continuing to 24 weeks treatment also showed no changes. 8. No adverse effect on adrenal or gonadal function could be demonstrated in patients with familial hypercholesterolaemia on maximal recommended doses of pravastatin.
Association between serum testosterone and sex hormone-binding globulin and exercise capacity in men: results of the Study of Health in Pomerania (SHIP).	Testosterone exerts a widespread pattern of effects on metabolism and body composition, and interest is gaining in its correlation with physical fitness. The main focus of our study was to investigate the association of total serum testosterone and sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) levels on exercise capacity and maximal power output in men using a cross-sectional, population-based adult cohort. From the Study of Health in Pomerania (SHIP), 624 men age 25 to 85 years who underwent a standardized progressive incremental exercise protocol on a cycle ergometer were included in the analyses. Exercise capacity was characterized by oxygen uptake at anaerobic threshold (V'O(2) at L) and peak exercise (V'O(2 peak)) as well as maximal power output at peak exertion. Multivariable linear regression analyses adjusted for age, sex, body mass index, physical activity, and smoking were performed. Further, linear regression analyses with cubic splines and sensitivity analyses were undertaken. At peak exercise performance, testosterone and SHBG levels showed no associations with V'O(2 peak), V'O(2) at L as well as maximal power output, even after controlling for confounding factors including age, body mass index, physical activity, and smoking. An adverse association between the free testosterone index and V'O(2) at L was found. Linear regression analyses with cubic splines did not change the main results. In conclusion, this is the first study focusing on the association of total serum testosterone and SHBG on exercise capacity and physical performance in healthy volunteers based on a large-scale population-based study. After adjustment for relevant influencing factors, neither total serum testosterone nor SHBG levels had any interference with peak exercise capacity, aerobic exercise capacity, or maximal power output in men.
Maternal and cord blood hormone levels in the United States and China and the intrauterine origin of breast cancer.	Breast cancer is less common in China than in the United States and perinatal characteristics predict breast cancer risk in the offspring. We determined levels of pregnancy hormones in Boston and Shanghai to identify those possibly involved in the intrauterine origin of breast cancer.
Influence of gene variants related to calcium homeostasis on biochemical parameters of women with polycystic ovary syndrome.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the associations between polymorphisms in vitamin D receptor (VDR), parathyroid hormone (PTH), calcium sensing receptor (CASR), insulin receptor (INSR), and adiponectin (ADIPOQ) genes and biochemical characteristics of women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
Metformin improves semen characteristics of oligo-terato-asthenozoospermic men with metabolic syndrome.	To examine the appropriate treatment of oligo-terato-asthenozoospermic patients with metabolic syndrome, 45patients were treated with metformin for 6 months. The use of metformin was associated with a statistically significant reduction in insulin resistance and sex hormone-binding globulin levels, a statistically significant increase in serum androgen levels, and a consequent improvement in semen characteristics.
Glucose tolerance and plasma testosterone concentrations in men. Results of the Asturias Study]	Studies in men have demonstrated a correlation between serum concentrations of androgens and sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) with the presence of impaired glucose tolerance, diabetes and metabolic syndrome. The aim of this study was to evaluate circulating levels of total testosterone, SHBG, and bioavailable testosterone in the cohort of the Asturias Study and their association with the degree of glucose tolerance and metabolic syndrome.
Prediction of gestational diabetes mellitus by maternal factors and biomarkers at 11 to 13 weeks.	To develop a model for the prediction of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) from maternal characteristics and biochemical markers at 11 to 13 weeks' gestation.
Low free testosterone is associated with heart failure mortality in older men referred for coronary angiography.	Accumulating evidence suggests that androgen deficiency is associated with cardiovascular disease. We aimed at evaluating whether total testosterone (TT) and free testosterone (FT) are associated with specific cardiovascular events.
The relationship between pubertal gynecomastia, prostate specific antigen, free androgen index, SHBG and sex steroids.	To investigate the relationships between pubertal gynecomastia, prostate-specific antigen (PSA), free androgen index (FAI), sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) and sex steroids.
Urinary concentrations of di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate metabolites and serum reproductive hormones: pooled analysis of fertile and infertile men.	Urinary concentrations of metabolites of the anti-androgenic xenobiotic  di-(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) were previously shown to be weakly  associated with serum levels of several hormones in 2 disparate US  populations: partners of pregnant women participating in the Study for Future  Families and partners in infertile couples from Massachusetts General Hospital  infertility clinic. The observed associations between phthalate metabolites  and reproductive hormones were robust and insensitive to the characteristics  of the subpopulation or the laboratory in which the hormones were measured,  despite the fact that these 2 populations span a range of fertility, urinary  phthalate metabolites, and reproductive hormone levels. We therefore examined  associations between urinary metabolites of DEHP and reproductive  hormones-follicle-stimulating hormone, luteinizing hormone, testosterone  (T), inhibin B, and estradiol (E(2))-and sex  hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) in the pooled population. The magnitude  of the associations seen were similar to those reported for each population  separately, but effect estimates were more precise because of the increased  sample size and the greater range of phthalate metabolite concentrations and  hormone levels. Urinary concentrations of 3 metabolites of DEHP  [mono(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (MEHP), mono(2-ethyl-5-hydroxyhexyl) phthalate  (MEHHP), and mono(2-ethyl-5-oxohexyl) phthalate (MEOHP)] were inversely  associated with the free androgen index (FAI = T/SHBG) and calculated free  testosterone. Urinary concentrations of MEHHP and MEOHP were positively  associated with SHBG, and MEHP was inversely associated with E(2). No  other phthalate metabolites were associated with serum hormones, consistent  with results in each population. Our results in this diverse population  suggest that DEHP exposure is robustly associated with some male sex steroid  hormones.
Metabolic syndrome, testosterone, and cardiovascular mortality in men.	Interactions among testosterone, metabolic syndrome (MetS), and mortality risk in men remain to be elucidated.
Associations of polychlorinated biphenyl exposure and endogenous hormones with diabetes in post-menopausal women previously employed at a capacitor manufacturing plant.	There is an increasing body of literature showing associations of organochlorine exposure with risk of diabetes and insulin resistance. Some studies suggest that associations differ by gender and that diabetes risk, in turn, may be affected by endogenous steroid hormones. This report examines the relationships of serum PCBs and endogenous hormones with history of diabetes in a cohort of persons previously employed at a capacitor manufacturing plant. A total of 118 women were post-menopausal with complete data, of whom 93 were not using steroid hormones in 1996, at the time of examination, which included a survey of exposure and medical history, height, weight and collection of blood and urine for measurements of lipids, liver function, hematologic markers and endogenous hormones. This analysis examines relationships of serum polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), work exposure and endogenous hormones with self-reported history of diabetes after control for potential confounders. All PCB exposure groups were significantly related to history of diabetes, but not to insulin resistance as measured by the homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) in non-diabetics. Diabetes was also independently and inversely associated with follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS) and triiodothyronine (T3) uptake. HOMA-IR was positively associated with body mass index (BMI) and C-reactive protein (CRP) and inversely associated with sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) and T3 uptake after control for PCB exposure. Possible biologic mechanisms are discussed. This study confirms previous reports relating PCB exposure to diabetes and suggests possible hormonal pathways deserving further exploration.
Serum levels of antimllerian hormone in women with regular menstrual cycles.	Antimllerian hormone (AMH) is produced by Sertolli cells of the testes and granulosa cells of the ovaries. Recent studies have indicated that AMH may be a novel measure of ovarian reserve. Also, earlier reports have presented minimal fluctuations ofAMH levels throughout the menstrual cycle. The aim of this preliminary study was to demonstrate the relation of serum AMH levels and age in women with regular menstrual cycles and normal hormonal regulation of ovarian function. The study included 35 women divided into two groups of women aged 30 or younger and those older than 30. Hormone concentrations were assessed by measurements of lutropin (LH), follitropin (FSH), estradiol (E2), testosterone (T), sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) and AMH on cycle day 3-5 (follicular phase); and LH, FSH and E2 on cycle day 13-15 (ovulation). Progesterone level was determined on cycle day 19-23 (luteal phase). Median age differed significantly between the two groups of study subjects (P = 0.001). Study results confirmed regular ovarian response to physiological gonadotropin stimulation, which is the assumption for normo-ovulatory cycles. Some decrease in the mean serum AMH levels was recorded in women over 30 years of age, although the difference was not statistically significant (P = 0.0693). There was no statistically significant difference in serum AMH concentrations between follicular phase and ovulation in study women (P = 0.3124). Our preliminary results, although obtained in a limited number of women, support the diagnostic value of AMH as a reliable marker of ovarian reserve.
Pharmacokinetics of modified slow-release oral testosterone over 9 days in normal men with experimental hypogonadism.	Oral administration of testosterone has potential use for the treatment of  hypogonadism. We have recently demonstrated that a novel formulation of oral  testosterone transiently normalized serum testosterone in a single-dose  pharmacokinetic study. In this report, we present the steady-state  pharmacokinetics of this formulation. Twelve healthy young men were rendered  hypogonadal with the gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonist acyline (300  g/kg subcutaneously) and administered 300 mg of oral testosterone 3 times  daily for 9 days. Serum testosterone, dihydrotestosterone (DHT), estradiol,  and sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) were measured before and 1, 2,  4, 5, 6, 8, 10, 11, 12, 14, 16, and 24 hours on the first and ninth day of  dosing. Before testosterone administration, all men had serum testosterone  under 75 ng/dL. Over day 1, the 24-hour average (geometric mean [%CV]) serum  total testosterone was 378 (45) ng/dL. This decreased to 315 (41) ng/dL after  9 days of continuous treatment (P = .1 compared with day 1). The  24-hour average serum SHBG was 27 (46) nmol/L on day 1 and was significantly  reduced to 19 (47) nmol/L by day 9 (P < .01). As a result, the  calculated free testosterone values were similar between day 1 and day 9: 8.7  (43) and 8.3 (37) ng/dL, respectively. DHT was in the reference range and  estradiol was slightly below on day 9. Oral testosterone (300 mg) dosed 3  times daily normalized serum testosterone in men with experimentally induced  hypogonadism after 9 days of dosing and significantly suppressed SHBG. This  formulation of oral testosterone may have efficacy for the treatment of  testosterone deficiency.
Expression changes of sex hormone binding globulin in GDM placental tissues.	To compare the expression of sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) in normal placental tissues with placental tissues from patients with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) and to deduce the mechanism affecting placental SHBG in GDM.
Trends in sex hormone concentrations in US males: 1988-1991 to 1999-2004.	Previous studies suggest that male testosterone concentrations have declined over time. To explore this in a large US population, we examined testosterone and free testosterone concentrations in National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys (NHANES) from 1988-1991 and 1999-2004. We also examined sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), estradiol, and androstanediol glucuronide (3-diol-G) over the same period. Non-Hispanic white, non-Hispanic black, and Mexican-American men from 1988-1991 and 1999-2004 NHANES surveys who were 20 years old and had serum from morning blood draws were included in this analysis (1988-1991: N = 1,413; 1999-2004: N = 902). Testosterone, estradiol and SHBG were measured by competitive electrochemiluminescence immunoassays and 3-diol-G was measured by enzyme immunoassay. Free testosterone was calculated using testosterone and SHBG values. Adjusted mean hormone concentrations were estimated using linear regression, accounting for NHANES sampling weights and design, age, race/ethnicity, body mass index, waist circumference, alcohol use and smoking. Differences in adjusted mean concentrations () and two-sided p-values were calculated; p < 0.05 was statistically significant. Overall, 3-diol-G and estradiol declined between 1988-1991 and 1999-2004, but there was little change in testosterone, free testosterone, or SHBG (: 3-diol-G = -1.83 ng/mL, p < 0.01; estradiol = -6.07 pg/mL, p < 0.01; testosterone = -0.03 ng/mL, p = 0.75; free testosterone = -0.001 ng/mL, p = 0.67; SHBG = -1.17 nmol/L, p = 0.19). Stratification by age and race revealed that SHBG and 3-diol-G declined among whites 20-44 years old (: SHBG = -5.14 nmol/L, p < 0.01; 3-diol-G = -2.89 ng/mL, p < 0.01) and free testosterone increased among blacks 20-44 years old (: 0.014 ng/mL, p = 0.03). Estradiol declined among all ages of whites and Mexican-Americans. In conclusion, there was no evidence for testosterone decline between 1988-1991 and 1999-2004 in the US general population. Subgroup analyses suggest that SHBG and 3-diol-G declined in young white men, estradiol declined in white and Mexican-American men, and free testosterone increased in young black men. These changes may be related to the increasing prevalence of reproductive disorders in young men.
Treatment with hormone therapy and calcitriol did not affect depression in older postmenopausal women:  no interaction with estrogen and vitamin D receptor genotype polymorphisms.	The aim of this study was to examine the effect of hormone therapy and calcitriol on depression in older postmenopausal women and to determine whether the response was associated with polymorphisms of estrogen receptor  and vitamin D receptor.
Smaller genitals at school age in boys whose mothers were exposed to non-persistent pesticides in early pregnancy.	Endocrine disrupting chemicals are believed to play a role in the development of the testicular dysgenesis syndrome. Many pesticides are known to have endocrine disrupting abilities. In a previous study, sons of women who were occupationally exposed to non-persistent pesticides in early pregnancy showed signs of impaired reproductive function (reduced genital size and altered serum hormone concentrations) at three months of age. To assess the possible long-term effects of prenatal pesticide exposure, the boys were re-examined at 6-11 years. The 94 boys (59 exposed, 35 unexposed) underwent genital examinations including ultrasound of testicular volumes, puberty staging (Tanner), anthropometry, and blood sampling. Only a few of the boys had reached puberty (n = 3). Among prepubescent boys, testicular volume and penile length (age- and weight-adjusted) were reduced if mothers were exposed to pesticides. The effects were associated with the maternal exposure levels, so that high-exposed boys had smaller genitals than medium-exposed boys, who had smaller genitals than those who were unexposed. Boys of mothers in the high exposure group (n = 23) had 24.7% smaller testes (95% CI: -62.2; -10.1) and 9.4% shorter penile length (95% CI: -16.8; -1.1) compared with the unexposed. The testicular volume and penile length at school age could be tracked to measures from the same boys made at 3 months, e.g. those that had small testes at school age also had small testes at 3 months. Pituitary and testicular hormone serum concentrations did not differ between exposed and unexposed boys. Eight prenatally exposed boys had genital malformations (no unexposed). These boys had smaller testis, shorter penile length and lower inhibin B concentrations than prepubertal boys without genital malformations. The findings support the results obtained at three months of age and indicate that prenatal pesticide exposure has long-term effects on reproductive function in boys.
Insulin resistance and acne: a new risk factor for men?	The purpose of this study is to investigate the relationship between acne and insulin resistance as well as other metabolic impairment in young males. Acne is a skin disease that can be influenced by endocrine abnormalities. In females, it is associated with polycystic ovary syndrome, with peripheral insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia, whereas few data are available in males. For investigating this, 22 young males with acne have been compared to 22 controls of comparable age and gender. Acne was scored using the global acne grading system score. Clinical as well as biochemical parameters of glucose and lipid metabolism, circulating levels of androgens, and IGF-1 were evaluated. Oral glucose tolerance test was performed and homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance was calculated. The results thus obtained are as follows, patients had higher BMI (p = 0.003), WC (p = 0.002), WHR (p = 0.02), SBP (p = 0.0001), DBP (p = 0.001), basal (p = 0.01) and 120 min. oGTT serum insulin concentrations (p = 0.002), basal glucose concentrations (p = 0.03), HOMA-IR (p = 0.016), and lower HDL-cholesterol than controls (p = 0.001). Among the subgroup of subjects with BMI <24.9, HDL-cholesterol (p = 0.05) and 120 min. oGTT serum insulin concentrations (p = 0.009) resulted to be independent predictors of acne at multivariate analysis. In conclusion, these findings highlight a metabolic imbalance in young males affected with acne. Insulin resistance seems to play the main role for the development of acne in these subjects. Insulin resistance could represent an effective target for therapy in male acne.
Association of follicle-stimulating hormone and sex hormone binding globulin with the metabolic syndrome in postmenopausal women.	We compared the association of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) with metabolic syndrome (MetS).
Features of hormone metabolism in reproductive age women with metabolic syndrome]	Aim of this study was the investigation of feature of hormonal status in patients with metabolic syndrome (MetS). 111 reproductive age women were included in the study. According to diagnostic criteria for MetS of Society of Cardiology of the Russian Federation (2009) they were divided into two groups--study group (n=52) and control group (n=59). It was studied composition of body (fat mass, skeletal mass, lean mass, total, intracellular and extracellular fluid), parameter of lipid and carbohydrate metabolism, parameter of hormonal status. Study of hormonal status in reproductive age women with MetS showed a higher level of fasting and postprandial levels of insulin and C-peptide, hyperleptinemia and a reduced level of sex hormone-binding globulinn (SHBG). We suggest that serum leptin and SHBG levels may be used as an additional diagnostic criteria in these patients.
Seasonal fluctuations in testosterone-estrogen ratio in men from the Southwest United States.	Although controversial, seasonal variations in testosterone have been  observed in several populations of men throughout the world. This finding  might have an impact on screening and treatment of hypogonadism. We examined  the circannual patterns of sex hormones in the Southwest United States. A  prospectively assembled database of almost 11 000 patients in a men's health  practice was used to collect data on testosterone, estradiol, sex  hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH),  luteinizing hormone (LH), and dehydroepiandrosterone-sulfate (DHEA-S). Patient  age, address, and date of visit were recorded. Of note, testosterone-estrogen  ratio (T/E ratio) and free testosterone were calculated values. The data were  grouped by month and by season (3-month intervals beginning with June, July,  and August as summer). Analysis of variance was used to compare hormone levels  between seasonal and monthly data sets, with P < .05 regarded as  statistical significance. Statistically significant differences in estradiol  (P = .02), T/E ratio (P < .01), FSH (P = .02),  and SHBG (P < .01) were observed between seasons. Peak-to-trough  variations were as follows: 6% for estradiol, 16.5% for T/E ratio, 11.0% for  FSH, and 11.6% for SHBG. The T/E ratio peaked in the spring and was at its  nadir in the fall. No differences in testosterone (P = .21), LH  (P = .25), free testosterone (P = .08), and DHEA-S  (P = .11) were observed. Statistically significant evidence of  variation in estradiol and T/E ratio were identified in the men included in  this study. Although this is consistent with seasonal body habitus changes,  physical activity levels, and hypothesized hormonal patterns, the variability  reported in the literature makes further trials covering a broader geographic  region important to confirm the findings.
Hormone therapy is associated with better body composition and adipokine/glucose profiles:  a study with monozygotic co-twin control design.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the possibility of preventing the metabolic health consequences of postmenopausal hypogonadism with the use of long-term hormone therapy (HT).
Reductions in glucose among postmenopausal women who use and do not use estrogen therapy.	Among postmenopausal women who do not use estrogen therapy (ET), we have previously reported that intensive lifestyle modification (ILS) leads to increases in sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) and that such increases are associated with reductions in fasting plasma glucose (FPG) and 2-hour postchallenge glucose (2HG). Oral ET decreases FPG and increases 2HG while increasing both SHBG and estradiol (E2). It is unknown if ILS reduces glucose among ET users, if changes in SHBG and E2 might mediate any glucose decreases in ET users, and if these patterns differ from those in non-ET users.
Serum bisphenol-A concentration and sex hormone levels in men.	To evaluate the association between serum bisphenol-A (BPA) concentration and sex hormone levels in men.
Longitudinal changes in testosterone over five years in community-dwelling men.	There are few population-based studies reporting longitudinal changes in total T, LH, FSH, and SHBG levels, and there is limited information on risk factors for their change.
Role of metabolic factors in the association between osteocalcin and testosterone in Chinese men.	Osteocalcin can regulate energy metabolism and increase testosterone production. Although previous studies have shown the positive association between osteocalcin and testosterone, the effect of metabolic factors in the association is unclear.
Effect of transdermal testosterone or alpha-lipoic acid on erectile dysfunction and quality of life in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.	Erectile dysfunction (ED) is the inability to develop and/or maintain an erection that is sufficient for satisfactory sexual intercourse. The prevalence of erectile dysfunction in diabetic men is 28-75%, this percentage rising with patient's age and duration of diabetes. The AIM of the present study was to investigate erectile dysfunction and quality of life in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) after treating them with transdermal testosterone or with alpha-lipoic acid.
Does hormone therapy affect blood pressure changes in the Diabetes Prevention Program?	This study aims to examine whether blood pressure reductions differ by estrogen use among overweight glucose-intolerant women.
Serum Fetuin-A levels, insulin resistance and oxidative stress in women with polycystic ovary syndrome.	This study was designed to determine serum Fetuin-A levels and establish whether serum Fetuin-A level is related with insulin resistance, oxidative stress, ovarian hyperandrogenism and dyslipidemia in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). Twenty-two patients with PCOS and twenty-one healthy control women were evaluated in this controlled clinical study. Serum Fetuin-A, lipid fractions, glucose, insulin, malondialdehyde (MDA), myeloperoxidase (MPO), glutathione (GSH), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and other hormone (gonadotropins, androgens) levels were measured. The estimate of insulin resistance was calculated by homeostasis model assessment (HOMA-R). The women with PCOS had significantly higher serum fasting glucose, insulin, luteinizing hormone (LH), MDA, Fetuin-A levels, and LH/follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) ratio, free androgen index (FAI), HOMA-IR than healthy women. However, sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) and GSH levels were significantly lower in patients with PCOS compared with controls. Fetuin-A was positively correlated with insulin, HOMA-IR and FAI. Multiple regression analysis revealed that FAI was strong predictor of serum Fetuin-A level. Serum Fetuin-A level was related with insulin resistance and ovarian hyperandrogenism in women with PCOS. These results suggest that Fetuin-A may have a role in triggering the processes leading to insulin resistance and androgen excess in PCOS.
Effects of an oral contraceptive containing estradiol valerate and dienogest on circulating androgen levels and acne in young patients with PCOS: an observational preliminary study.	This study shows the effect of a 1 year treatment with an estradiol valerate/dienogest pill in 36 women suffering from polycystic ovaries and mild or moderate acne. At beginning of the study, 24 patients (66.7%) had grade 1-2 (mild) acne and 12 patients (33.3%) had grade 3 (moderate) acne. After 12 cycles of therapy, we found an improvement of acne in 19 (52.8%) patients and a worsening of acne in 3 (8.4%) patients. The percentage of patients recovered was statistically significant (p<0.01). SHBG levels were significantly higher after 6 and 12 months of therapy (p<0.001), while total testosterone levels were lower in all patients at 6 and 12 months although this trend did not reach statistical significance. In conclusion, the present study suggests that the E2V/DNG pill could exert a positive influence on acne and hyperandrogenism. Since this is an observational study on a very limited population number, additional randomized controlled studies on larger populations are needed also to determine the effects of this contraceptive over longer periods of use.
Obesity and age as dominant correlates of low testosterone in men irrespective of diabetes status.	Although men with type 2 diabetes (T2D) frequently have lowered testosterone levels, it is not well established whether this is ascribable to the diabetic state per se, or because of other factors, such as obesity. Our objective was to determine the prevalence and correlates of low testosterone in middle-aged men with diabetes. We conducted a cross-sectional study in 240 men including 80 men with type 1 diabetes (T1D), 80 men with T2D and 80 men without diabetes. Prevalence of a total testosterone 8nmol/L was low, occurring in none of the men with T1D, 6.2% of men with T2D and 2.5% of men without diabetes. Men with T1D had higher testosterone levels compared with men without diabetes (p<0.001), even after adjustment for body mass index (BMI) and age (p<0.02). While men with T2D had lower testosterone compared with controls (p=0.03), this was no longer significant when BMI and age were taken into account (p=0.16). In the entire cohort, TT remained inversely associated with BMI independent of age, sex hormone-binding globulin and diabetic status (p=0.01), whereas calculated free testosterone (cFT) was independently and inversely associated with age (p<0.001), but not with BMI (p=0.47). These results suggest that marked reductions in circulating testosterone are uncommon in middle-aged men with diabetes. Increasing BMI and age are dominant drivers of lowered total and cFT, respectively, independent of the presence or absence of diabetes. 
Benign prostatic hyperplasia and uterine leiomyomas in a female pseudohermaphrodite: a case report.	A 60-year old female pseudohermaphrodite with congenital adrenal hyperplasia presented with acute retention of urine and a lower abdominal mass. At laparotomy a large uterus with multiple leiomyomas was removed. Transurethral resection of the obstructing bladder neck revealed benign prostatic hyperplasia. This patient demonstrates that benign prostatic hyperplasia may develop in the presence of androgens from an extratesticular source.
Testosterone changes in patients with liver cirrhosis before and after orthotopic liver transplantation and its correlation with MELD.	Hypogonadism is a common clinical situation in male patients with liver cirrhosis.
Significance of initial plasma steroid concentrations in the prognosis of 'nonendocrine' malignant ovarian tumors.	The prognostic value of progesterone (P), androstenedione (A), Estradiol, Testosterone, 20 alpha-hydroxy-progesterone, sex hormone binding globulin, and albumin (Alb) was investigated in 51 women with ovarian carcinoma. All patients had observation periods greater than 5 years. The plasma concentrations of P, A, and Alb and the P/Alb and A/Alb ratios showed a significant correlation with the observation time of the patients. P, P/Alb, Alb, and A/Alb separately or in combination showed the highest prognostic specificity and sensitivity. The patients with a plasma concentration above an optimal limit or above mean + 2 SD of a control group of 20 postmenopausal women were grouped together. The groups with P/Alb, A, A/Alb, and Alb above the limit showed an equal survival rate as patients in FIGO stage IV. Patients with a high A/Alb ratio and a high testosterone concentration showed an even poorer prognosis than FIGO stage IV patients. Among the patients in stage IV the A/Alb ratio and sex hormone binding globulin gave additional prognostic information on the stage. The steroid concentration is not only related to tumor volume, as shown earlier, but also reflects the prognosis of the disease.
Thyroid hormone turnover in patients with small cell carcinoma of the lung.	Patients with small cell carcinoma of the lung often present with symptoms suggestive of hyperthyroidism i.e. weight loss without anorexia. Consequently [125I]T4 and [131I]T3 turnover was studied using simultaneously iv bolus injection and noncompartmental analysis in 6 patients with untreated small cell carcinoma of the lung and 14 normal subjects of comparable ages. Both T4 and T3 production rates were enhanced, T4 production being in median 135 nmol.day-1.70 kg-1 (range 111-200) in patients with small cell carcinoma of the lung vs 98 nmol.day-1.70 kg-1 (range 69-134) in controls (P less than 0.01), and T3 production being 46 nmol.day-1.70 kg-1 (range 33-65) vs 31 nmol.day-1.70 kg-1 (range 24-45) (P less than 0.01). The mean transit time was shortened for both T4 and T3, T4 mean transit time being 5.9 days (3.9-8.0 days) vs 8.3 days (6.1-11.2 days) in controls (P less than 0.01), and T3 mean transit time being 0.74 days (0.36-0.98 days) vs 1.03 days (0.81-1.45 days) in controls (P less than 0.01). Serum total and free T4 and T3 levels were unchanged. Basal serum TSH levels and the TSH response to iv TRH were also normal. Thyroid-stimulating immunoglobulins were only present in the serum in 1 of 6 patients. Thus, thyroid hormone production seemed under pituitary regulation. The peripheral effect of thyroid hormones was evaluated measuring serum sex hormone binding globulin levels, which were increased to in median 270% (77-310%) (P less than 0.01) of that in controls, suggesting some degree of hyperthyroidism in liver tissue.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Control of hidradenitis suppurativa in women using combined antiandrogen (cyproterone acetate) and oestrogen therapy.	The effects of combined treatment with the antiandrogen, cyproterone acetate, and ethinyl oestradiol on four women with long-standing hidradenitis suppurativa have been investigated. The condition was controlled successfully in all patients with 100 mg/day cyproterone acetate using the reversed sequential regimen; lowering the antiandrogen to 50 mg/day caused deterioration. Before treatment, plasma testosterone levels were within the normal range, but plasma androstenedione values were raised and sex hormone binding globulin levels were low. On treatment, the androstenedione concentration fell and sex hormone-binding globulin values were raised. However, since these levels were unaltered by reducing the antiandrogen dosage, the main action of the therapy is probably that of the antiandrogen within the target cells.
The effect of age, weight-related parameters and hormonal contraceptives on andrological assays.	Serum levels of dehydroepiandrosterone-sulfate (DHEA-S), testosterone (T), sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG), T/SHBG ratio and the calculated free T were evaluated in healthy female blood donors. The influence of age and weight-related parameters were studied together with the effects of 9 different oral contraceptives. A gradual decrease with age of DHEA-S, T, T/SHBG and free T levels were observed. The Quetelet index showed a significant negative correlation with the androgen levels except for the T/SHBG ratio. In the females using contraceptives, DHEA-S levels were only significantly decreased in the group using Depo-provera. Most contraceptive users had slightly lowered T levels. Marvelon and Ministat induced an increase in the SHBG levels. Androstenedione (A) levels were studied for some of the contraceptives (Ministat, Marvelon, Lyndiol, Depoprovera); levels were found to be significantly lower than in normal premenopausal women. A highly significant correlation was demonstrated between DHEA-S and the T, T/SHBG and free T levels in the serum of 106 normal women.
Anti-seborrhea effect of cimetidine]	Cimetidine, a histamine H2 antagonist, seems to have anti-androgenic activity. 22 young women were studied during follicular phase prior to and after a 3 month period of treatment with cimetidine (1,200 mg daily). Three month treatment with cimetidine resulted in a significant decrease of seborrheic index (p less than 10(-4)) and casual level (p less than 10(-4)). Testosterone level, TeBG binding capacity and free testosterone were unaffected by the treatment. Cimetidine decrease sebum secretion without change in androgen parameters.
Plasma levels of C-19 steroids and 5 alpha-reduced steroid glucuronides in hyperandrogenic and idiopathic hirsute women.	In the present study, the authors measured the plasma levels of unconjugated and glucuronide (G) derivatives of C-19 steroids in hirsute women divided into two groups, depending upon their dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS). This quite restrictive classification was the result of an arbitrary decision of the authors, who wanted to focus interpretation of their data on DHEAS, the well-known adrenal androgen. In the hyperandrogenic hirsute woman (HH), the DHEAS levels were higher than 3.0 micrograms/ml; in idiopathic hirsute women (IH), values of DHEAS were comparable to those observed in normal women (1.2 to 2.5 micrograms/ml). In the HH group, the levels of dehydroepiandrosterone, androstenedione, androst-5-ene-3 beta,17 beta-diol (delta 5-diol), testosterone, dihydrotestosterone (DHT), androstane-3 alpha, 17 beta-diol (3 alpha-diol), androstane-3 beta,17 beta-diol (3 beta-diol), androsterone (ADT), DHTG, 3 alpha-diol-G, 3 beta-diol-G, and ADTG were higher than the normal range whereas, in the IH group, only delta 5-diol, DHT, 3 beta-diol-G and ADTG were elevated. These data are compatible with the hypothesis that the plasma levels of steroid G represent the peripheral formation of androgen in target tissues. Because the pattern of androgen metabolism is most probably changed in many cases of hirsutism, these data suggest that for research purposes, it would be preferable to measure 3 beta-diol-G and ADTG in addition to 3 alpha-diol-G in order to gain additional information concerning androgen metabolites in this disorder.
Testicular function and fertility in men with homozygous alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency.	Fertility and testicular function were studied in eight men with severe homozygous (Pi ZZ variant genotype) alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) deficiency. Age- and marital duration standardized fertility, clinical androgenic features, mean testicular volume, plasma luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and semen analysis were all normal apart from a reduction in semen volume. Mean plasma total and free testosterone were elevated and the percentage free testosterone reduced compared with age-matched, healthy fertile controls indicative of increased sex-hormone binding globulin (SHBG) levels representing an early marker for subclinical hepatic dysfunction associated with AAT-deficiency. In view of the preservation of normal fertility and testicular function despite chronic respiratory disease and premature death with deleterious AAT gene variants, it is proposed that the high prevalence of genetic polymorphism in the AAT protein may be maintained by the chronological asynchrony of the periods of maximal male reproductive activity (40 years) and the late onset (greater than 40 years) of symptoms in severe AAT deficiency rather than by any balance between reduced reproductive fitness of homozygotes and heterozygote advantage.
Pharmacokinetic studies with a vaginal delivery system releasing levonorgestrel at a near zero order rate for one year.	Vaginal rings releasing approximately 20 micrograms levonorgestrel per 24 hours were used continuously by ten women for a period of one year. Circulating plasma levels of levonorgestrel (L-NOG) were measured every second week. Steroid hormone binding globulin (SHBG) levels were measured in the first and last four blood samples drawn. A linear relationship between the logarithms of L-NOG concentrations and duration of use was found, indicating an exponential character of decrease in L-NOG levels during the study year. An average of 72% of the mean initial levels of L-NOG was found in the circulation after 6 months' and 52% after one year's use. The L-NOG levels decreased daily by 1.1 pmol/l (0.13%) on the average. The SHBG levels were not influenced by the long-term exposure to L-NOG. The initial SHBG levels were significantly correlated (r = 0.88; P less than 0.001) to the initial L-NOG levels. The rings were well tolerated. Only in two of the ten subjects did the average number of bleeding days per month increase from a pretreatment value of 4.5 days per month to 8.3 and 9.5 days per month, respectively.
Changes in serum sex hormone-binding globulin, free estradiol, and testosterone during gonadotropin treatment.	Sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), estradiol (E2), percent free E2, percent of E2 bound to SHBG, and testosterone (T) were evaluated in 28 ovulatory women during human menopausal gonadotropin-stimulated cycles for in vitro fertilization. Patients were divided into two categories: low responders, in whom serum E2 concentration reached levels less than 1000 pg/ml (mean, 638 +/- 93), and high responders, with serum E2 levels greater than 1000 pg/ml (mean, 2219 +/- 330). A significant increase in SHBG can occur within a short time in high responders (from 62.8 to 103.9 nmol/l) but not in low responders. This increase is accompanied by a significant decrease in the percent free (bioavailable) E2, but the distribution of E2 between the fraction bound to SHBG or albumin did not vary. Despite the increase in the levels of SHBG, the concentration of bioavailable (free) E2 in hyperstimulated women is higher than in normal cycles. The significant increase in T in high responders, by virtue of its higher affinity for SHBG, probably contributes to the increased levels of bioavailable E2.
Effects of two low-dose oral contraceptives on circulating components of the coagulation and fibrinolytic systems.	We studied the effects on plasma levels of coagulation and fibrinolysis factors of two currently used "sub-50" oral contraceptive preparations (OCs), one containing 750 micrograms lynestrenol and 37.5 micrograms ethinyl estradiol (LYN-EE) and the other containing 150 micrograms levonorgestrel and 30 micrograms ethinyl estradiol (LNG-EE), in groups of about 25 women aged 21 +/- 2 years. After 3 months, plasminogen levels increased in the two experimental groups (LYN-EE and LNG-EE), by 40% and 32%, respectively. This change was positively correlated with changes in ceruloplasmin levels, indicating that an estrogenic effect might be involved. Histidine-rich glycoprotein concentration decreased by 26% and 16%, respectively. Tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) activity increased by 260% and 167%; t-PA antigen decreased by 12% and 18%, and t-PA inhibitor activity decreased by 31% and 32%, respectively. In the coagulation system, in both groups factor XII increased by 47% and 34%, respectively. The main inhibitor of factor XII, C1-inactivator, decreased slightly, but this was significant only in the LNG-EE group. The von Willebrand factor antigen fell by 8% and 9%, whereas factor VIII activity did not change. Antithrombin III antigen decreased by 14% in both groups. Factor IX activity increased by 15% and 21%. The difference in hormonal effects of both preparations was reflected by the increases in sex hormone binding globulin (by 130% and 21%) and ceruloplasmin (by 98% and 51%), indicating that LYN-EE had a more estrogenic potency than LNG-EE. In a control group of 25 matched subjects, who were observed simultaneously, we found no significant changes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Contraception with subdermal implants releasing levonorgestrel. A clinical and pharmacological study.	Two methods for release of levonorgestrel from polydimethylsiloxane (Silastic) subdermal implants for contraception were studied. The first system consists of six 3 cm long Silastic capsules filled with levonorgestrel (NORPLANT). The second one consists of two 4 cm long rods made from Silastic and levonorgestrel, covered with thin Silastic tubing (NORPLANT-2). The contraceptive efficacy of NORPLANT implants was excellent during the four years of observation. That of NORPLANT-2 implants was very good during the first three years, but not acceptable during the fourth year. Both types of implants were well tolerated and the most common side effect experienced was bleeding disturbances such as irregular bleeding and periods of prolonged bleeding. The frequency of such disturbances decreased considerably after the first year of use. The plasma levels of levonorgestrel decreased throughout the study, and did not show any statistically significant difference between users of the two types of implants. The plasma levels of levonorgestrel in women who became pregnant did not differ from those in women who did not become pregnant. Levonorgestrel binds to sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) with high affinity, and in the bound form is not biologically active. A "free levonorgestrel index" (FLI), i.e. the ratio of plasma level of levonorgestrel to SHBG capacity, was calculated. Women with NORPLANT had higher FLI than those with NORPLANT-2 and women who became pregnant had lower FLI than those who did not. It is suggested that NORPLANT-2 implants have a lower rate of release of levonorgestrel than NORPLANT implants. SHBG capacity, thyroid binding proteins and corticosteroid binding globulin decreased during treatment. Plasma total testosterone decreased during treatment, whereas free testosterone was unaltered. Thyroid function and plasma cortisol levels did not change during treatment. Treatment with phenytoin decreased the contraceptive effect. In a group of regularly menstruating women who had used NORPLANT-2 implants for more than three years, 40% showed anovulation, 20% luteinization of unruptured follicles and 40% apparent ovulation.
The effects of aging in normal men on bioavailable testosterone and luteinizing hormone secretion: response to clomiphene citrate.	Serum testosterone (T) levels in men decline with age while serum LH levels, as measured by RIA, increase. To assess if the decline in serum T levels in healthy aging men is paralleled by an age-related decline in the bioavailable non-sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG)-bound fraction of T and to determine whether there are age-related changes in LH secretion or LH control of T production, we studied 29 young (aged 22-35 yr) and 26 elderly (aged 65-84 yr) healthy men. All men had single random blood samples drawn, and 14 men in each age group underwent frequent blood sampling for 24 h, both before and after 7 days of clomiphene citrate (CC) administration. Both mean 24-h serum total T levels and non-SHBG-bound T were reduced in elderly men compared to those in young men (P less than 0.05), while estradiol and SHBG levels were similar in the 2 age groups. Serum FSH determined by RIA and LH by RIA and bioassay were higher in the elderly men compared to those in young men (P less than 0.05), but the ratios of LH bioactivity to immunoreactivity and the LH pulse frequency and amplitude were similar. After CC administration, mean serum total T and non-SHBG-bound levels in young men increased by 100% and 304%, respectively, while in older men these values increased by only 32% and 8%, respectively. However, CC-stimulated LH pulse characteristics and serum levels of estradiol, SHBG, FSH, and bioactive and immunoreactive LH were similar in the 2 groups. Thus, both at baseline and after CC stimulation, elderly men had significantly lower serum total T and non-SHBG-bound (bioavailable) T levels than did young men, despite similar or increased levels of bioactive LH and similar bioactive to immunoreactive LH ratios and LH pulse characteristics. These results suggest that major age-related changes in the hypothalamic-pituitary-testicular axis occur at the level of the testes and are manifested by decreased responsiveness to bioactive LH. Administration of CC to young and elderly men resulted in similar changes in LH pulse characteristics and LH bioactivity and immunoreactivity, suggesting preserved hypothalamic-pituitary responsiveness in the elderly.
Spironolactone in the treatment of hirsutism.	Clinical and laboratory studies were performed in 18 hirsute women for evaluation of the efficacy of spironolactone (S) therapy. Each patient received S 100 mg daily. The grade of hirsutism was assessed using a semiquantitative scale of Ferriman and Gallwey. Total testosterone, androstendione, dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate and sexhormone binding globulin were measured before initiation and after six months of therapy. A clinical response was seen in 12 women. The total score of hirsutism in the whole patient group was decreased from 14.1 +/- 6.3 (mean +/- S.D.) to 11.8 +/- 6.4 (p less than 0.01). No changes were found in the hormonal values. The findings of the present study confirm the efficacy of S in decreasing the hair growth by mainly a peripheral mode of action.
Influence of male hormones on rates of ethanol elimination in man.	The effect of a reduction in androgens on ethanol elimination was determined in man. Bilateral therapeutic orchiectomy in nine patients for prostatic carcinoma decreased mean plasma testosterone levels from 489.8 +/- 31.2 (S.E.) ng per dl to 55.3 +/- 3.8 ng per dl and resulted in an increase in the rate of ethanol elimination in seven patients, no change in one, and a decrease in one. The mean rate of ethanol elimination for all nine patients increased from 83.6 +/- 4.0 to 100.4 +/- 4.2 mg per kg body weight per hr (p less than 0.02). The most likely mechanism for an increase in ethanol elimination after orchiectomy is an increase in liver alcohol dehydrogenase content, which remains to be demonstrated in man.
Progressive increase in nonsex hormone-binding globulin-bound testosterone and estradiol from infancy to late prepuberty in girls.	We previously reported that serum sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) decreases and serum non-SHBG-bound testosterone (T) increases with age in normal prepubertal boys from infancy to late prepuberty. In this study we measured serum SHBG, T, estradiol (E2), and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DS), and we calculated serum non-SHBG-bound T and E2 and free T and E2 in 22 normal prepubertal girls, aged 1-9.4 yr. The girls were divided into 3 groups of different ages: group A, 1.7 +/- 1.0 (mean +/- SE) yr; group B, 4.6 +/- 0.8 yr; and group C, 7.3 +/- 0.8 yr. In group C, mean serum SHBG level was lower, and serum T, non-SHBG-bound T, free T, DS, total E2, non-SHBG-bound E2, and free E2 were higher than in group A or B. Furthermore, a negative correlation was found between serum SHBG and age [y(nmol/L) = 144 - 9.07 x (yr); r = 0.57; P less than 0.001], while positive correlations were found between non-SHBG-bound T and age [y(nmol/L = 0.043 + 0.023 x (yr); r = 0.68; P less than 0.001], non-SHBG-bound E2 and age [y(pmol/L) = 0.69 + 2.82 x (yr); r = 0.6; P less than 0.001], and DS and age [y(nmol/L) = 25.2 + 63.8 x (yr); r = 0.59, P less than 0.001]. In a group of 19 normal age-matched prepubertal boys, we also found a significant correlation between non-SHBG-bound E2 and age. Since non-SHBG-bound sex hormone levels are good indicators of tissue available sex hormones, we conclude that in prepubertal girls, there is a progressive increase in the exposure of peripheral tissues to T and E2 with advancing age. Since sex hormones enhance tissue maturation, these increments might play a role in the somatic and psychic development of girls before the onset of the clinical signs of puberty.
Serum androgens in infertile women with ovulatory dysfunction.	In the infertility work-up of 98 couples, ovulatory disturbances were detected in 28 women on the basis of low progesterone values and endometrial biopsy. Of these, six were anovulatory, eight oligo-ovulatory and 14 had luteal deficiency. Their androgen status was studied by determination of androstenedione (A), dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate (DHEA-S), testosterone (T), free testosterone (free T) and sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG). The mean level of free T was significantly higher (P less than 0.05) in anovulatory women when compared with ovulatory ones. No differences were found in the mean levels of total T, SHBG and DHEA-S between anovulatory, oligo-ovulatory, luteal deficient and ovulatory infertile women. The results show that in infertile women determination of androgen levels, and especially free T, is indicated in the absence of clinical signs of hyperandrogenism.
Pretreatment plasma levels of testosterone and sex hormone binding globulin binding capacity in relation to clinical staging and survival in prostatic cancer patients.	Pretreatment plasma concentrations of total testosterone (T), sex hormone binding globulin binding capacity (SHBG). T/SHBG ratio, and free testosterone (fT) were measured in 123 patients with prostatic cancer categorized into groups according to the UICC classification. The patients were randomized to orchiectomy or estrogen therapy and the mean follow-up time was 48 months. The mean plasma levels of T were higher in patients without metastases and with intracapsular cancer, but the differences were not statistically significant. The calculated ratio of T/SHBG was noticed to be significantly higher (p less than 0.05) in the M0 category. The prognostic significance of pretreatment T and, more impressively, T/SHBG ratio and fT was confirmed. Low pretreatment values indicated poorer prognosis. This study supports the view that there are differences in the pretreatment T and fT levels in prostatic cancer patients in relation to the stage of tumor and that these hormone assays could be used as prognostic factors.
Benign and malignant breast disease: initial study results of serum and breast fluid analyses of endogenous estrogens.	Design, methods, and study population of a long-term multidisciplinary investigation of benign and malignant breast disease were reported. This initial report focused on the relation of menstrual, reproductive, and other factors to serum and breast fluid estrogen measures [estradiol (E2), estrone (E1), percent free estrogen, and sex hormone binding globulin] among control women. After adjustment for the factors found to be related to the various estrogen measures, estrogen levels in women with benign and malignant disease were compared to those of controls. Findings were as follows: a) little evidence of any relation of most breast cancer risk factors with the various serum estrogen parameters studied; b) differences in breast fluid estrogen levels that may be relevant to the protective effect of parity on breast cancer risk; c) markedly higher levels of E2 and E1 in breast fluid than in serum and no evidence of a correlation of serum with breast fluid measures; d) no support for the hypothesis that breast cancer patients have higher serum percent free E2 than controls or women with benign breast disease; and e) higher breast fluid E2 and E1 levels in women with biopsied benign breast disease than in controls.
Hyperemesis gravidarum in relation to estradiol levels, pregnancy outcome, and other maternal factors: a seroepidemiologic study.	Two studies were conducted to assess factors associated with increased risk of hyperemesis gravidarum during pregnancy with data and serum samples collected from participants in the Collaborative Perinatal Study. In the case-control study, 419 pregnant women with hyperemesis gravidarum were matched on medical center, date of study registration, and race with 836 pregnant women who did not vomit during the index pregnancy. Younger age, nulliparity, and high body weight were significantly associated with increased risk of hyperemesis. Women with hyperemesis had significantly reduced risk of fetal loss; however, their infants had higher risk of central nervous system malformations. In the second study, first-trimester pregnancy hormones were measured in the serum of 35 women with hyperemesis and 35 control women who were individually matched to cases on age, parity, and medical center. After adjusting for length of gestation, mean levels of total estradiol were 26% higher and mean levels of sex hormone binding-globulin binding capacity were 37% higher in patients with hyperemesis gravidarum than in control subjects. These differences were statistically significant. Although human chorionic gonadotropin concentrations were higher in control pregnancies, the differences were not statistically significant. The average amount of estradiol that was nonprotein bound (adjusted for length of gestation) was also higher in patients than in control subjects. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that elevated estrogen levels are responsible for excessive vomiting in pregnancy.
Body composition, not body weight, is related to cardiovascular disease risk factors and sex hormone levels in men.	To clarify the independent relationships of obesity and overweight to cardiovascular disease risk factors and sex steroid levels, three age-matched groups of men were studied: (i) 8 normal weight men, less than 15% body fat, by hydrostatic weighing; (ii) 16 overweight, obese men, greater than 25% body fat and 135-160% of ideal body weight (IBW); and (iii) 8 overweight, lean men, 135-160% IBW, but less than 15% fat. Diastolic blood pressure was significantly greater for the obese (mean +/- SEM, 82 +/- 2 mmHg) than the normal (71 +/- 2) and overweight lean (72 +/- 2) groups, as were low density lipoprotein levels (131 +/- 9 vs. 98 + 11 and 98 + 14 mg/dl), the ratio of high density lipoprotein to total cholesterol (0.207 +/- 0.01 vs. 0.308 +/- 0.03 and 0.302 +/- 0.03), fasting plasma insulin (22 +/- 3 vs. 12 +/- 1 and 13 +/- 2 microU/ml), and the estradiol/testosterone ratio (0.076 +/- 0.01 vs. 0.042 +/- 0.02 and 0.052 +/- 0.02); P less than 0.05. Estradiol was 25% greater for the overweight lean group (40 +/- 5 pg/ml) than the obese (30 +/- 3 pg/ml) and normal groups (29 +/- 2 pg/ml), P = 0.08, whereas total testosterone was significantly lower in the obese (499 +/- 33 ng/dl) compared with the normal and overweight, lean groups (759 +/- 98 and 797 +/- 82 ng/dl). Estradiol was uncorrelated with risk factors and the estradiol/testosterone ratio appeared to be a function of the reduced testosterone levels in obesity, not independently correlated with lipid levels after adjustment for body fat content. Furthermore, no risk factors were significantly different between the normal and overweight lean groups. We conclude that (a) body composition, rather than body weight per se, is associated with increased cardiovascular disease risk factors; and (b) sex steroid alterations are related to body composition and are not an independent cardiovascular disease risk factor.
Hormonal consequences of orchidectomy for carcinoma of the prostate. With special reference to the measurement of free testosterone in the saliva.	22 patients with metastatic carcinoma of the prostate were treated by subcapsular orchidectomy and followed by regular determinations of plasma T, DHT, D4A Dione, SDHEA, and TeBG as well as salivary T which measures the free Testosterone. Subcapsular orchidectomy constantly induced a dramatic and stable decrease of testicular androgens or TeBG. Free Testosterone levels vary widely for a given value of plasma T, probably due to individual variations of TeBG. Therefore salivary T should be used preferably to plasma T to monitor hormonal therapy of metastatic carcinoma of the prostate.
Serum sex hormone-binding globulin in amiodarone-treated patients. A marker for tissue thyrotoxicosis.	The lodinated antiarrhythmic drug amiodarone frequently causes an elevation of the serum thyroxine (T4) level in patients who remain clinically euthyroid. Less frequently, true iodine-induced hyperthyroidism may occur. The clinical and laboratory distinction between these two conditions is often difficult. Since the serum sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) concentration is elevated in hyperthyroidism, this study was carried out to evaluate the serum SHBG concentration as a possible marker of hyperthyroidism in patients receiving amiodarone. Patients treated with amiodarone were divided into three groups: clinically euthyroid with normal serum T4 and triiodothyronine (T3) concentrations, clinically euthyroid with elevated serum T4 and normal T3 concentrations, and clinically hyperthyroid with elevated serum T4 and T3 concentrations. The mean serum SHBG concentration was significantly elevated in amiodarone-induced hyperthyroid patients, while it was normal in euthyroid patients treated with amiodarone who had normal or elevated serum T4 concentrations. The results suggest that the hyperthyroxinemia induced by amiodarone is not associated with excess thyroid hormone action in the liver unless the serum T3 concentration is also elevated.
The distribution of oestradiol in plasma in relation to uterine cross-sectional area in women with polycystic or multifollicular ovaries.	The uterine cross-sectional area (UXA) of women with polycystic (PCO) or multifollicular ovaries (MFO) is significantly larger and smaller, respectively, than those of normal women during the early-mid-follicular phase of the menstrual cycle. In the present study the distribution of oestradiol in plasma from normal women and women with PCO or MFO was measured to determine if differences in the available fractions of oestradiol could account for the differences in UXA of women with PCO or MFO. No differences in plasma levels of oestradiol were detected and the concentrations of oestradiol present in a free state or bound to albumin were similar in normal women and women with PCO or MFO. The concentration of oestrone was significantly higher in plasma from women with PCO (516 +/- 120 pmol/l, mean +/- SD) than in plasma from women with MFO (389 +/- 91 pmol/l) or normal women (376 +/- 89 pmol/l). Differences in UXA for women with PCO or MFO as compared with normal women cannot therefore be attributed to differences in available oestradiol concentrations. It is possible that abnormalities in oestrogen metabolism within uterine or other tissues may account for the UXA of women with PCO or MFO. Increased plasma oestrone levels in women with PCO may provide more substrate for conversion to oestradiol within the uterus whilst the smaller UXA of women with MFO may reflect both lack of normal cyclical increases of oestradiol and formation of biologically inactive oestradiol metabolites.
Sex hormones and coronary artery disease.	Previous investigators have found an increased risk of coronary heart disease in men with high levels of circulating estrogens. To elucidate further this relationship, a case-control study of atherosclerotic coronary artery disease (ASCAD) and sex hormones was undertaken in male patients. Hormone levels in men with severe ASCAD documented at angiography were compared with those in men found to be virtually free from disease and with those in a group of control subjects without signs or symptoms of ASCAD. Significantly lower total testosterone levels were observed among men with severe ASCAD compared with either control group; the free testosterone level was significantly lower than in angiographically disease-free control subjects. The same pattern of hormone levels persisted after control of covariates. Epidemiologic analysis demonstrated a fivefold decrease in risk for severe ASCAD between the lowest and the highest quartile of total testosterone. No overall pattern of association was seen between ASCAD and free or total estrogens.
Serum lipoproteins, sex hormones and sex hormone binding globulin in middle-aged men of different physical fitness and risk of coronary heart disease.	Serum concentrations of lipoproteins, apolipoprotein A-I (Apo A-I), androgens, including biologically active free testosterone (free T), and sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) and their associations were studied in 3 groups of men of different physical fitness and risk of CHD, consisting of male CHD patients, joggers and healthy controls. Of the 3 study groups, men with angiographically assessed CHD had the lowest HDL-C (P less than 0.002) and highest LDL-C and triglyceride (TG) levels (P = 0.05 and P less than 0.001) and lower 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone (5 alpha-DHT) levels than joggers (P less than 0.02). Joggers had the highest serum high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), Apo A-I and SHBG levels and lowest serum low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) compared to the other groups (P less than 0.01). In correlation analysis 5 alpha-DHT was the most significant positive determinant of HDL-C and Apo A-I levels in CHD patients (r = 0.56 and r = 0.55, respectively, P less than 0.05). Moreover, SHBG was significantly positively correlated to both HDL-C and Apo A-I levels in patients, in the whole study group and in healthy men separately (r = 0.37-0.52, P less than 0.01). These significant correlations were also confirmed when age variation and differences in body mass index and smoking were controlled in multivariate analysis and in addition, in multivariate analysis both serum free and total testosterone were inversely related to serum triglyceride (TG) levels.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
High serum sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) and low serum non-SHBG-bound testosterone in boys with idiopathic hypopituitarism: effect of recombinant human growth hormone treatment.	We measured serum sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), total testosterone (T), non-SHBG-bound T, albumin-bound T, free T, and SHBG-bound T in 19 prepubertal boys with hypopituitarism. Serum SHBG decreased with age with a slope similar to that in 91 normal prepubertal boys at higher level, and therefore, it reached similar values at a later age. Serum SHBG was significantly higher in hypopituitary prepubertal boys [mean, 123 +/- 12 (+/- SE) nmol/L] than in normal prepubertal boys (76 +/- 4; P less than 0.001) despite the fact that their mean age was also higher (10.0 +/- 4 vs. 7.1 +/- 4.1 yr; P less than 0.001). In 4 boys with isolated hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (Kallman's syndrome), aged 15.6 +/- 1.5 yr, serum SHBG was 21 +/- 14 nmol/L, a value below the 95% confidence limit of the regression line in GH-deficient boys. The affinity constants of association of the SHBG-DHT complex were similar in hypopituitary and normal boys. Eleven of the 19 hypopituitary boys (mean chronological age, 8.3 +/- 2.5 yr; mean bone age, 4.1 +/- 2.1 yr) were treated with recombinant hGH (0.5 U/kg BW.week) for 1 yr. Their mean serum SHBG level before treatment was 154 +/- 14 nmol/L, and it decreased gradually to 106 +/- 5 nmol/L (P less than 0.01) after 12 months of treatment. The tendency toward normalization of serum SHBG during treatment suggested that GH deficiency was responsible for the high serum SHBG levels. Serum SHBG correlated negatively with age in both treated hypopituitary and normal boys, but the slope of the regression line was significantly steeper in treated hypopituitary boys (P less than 0.01). On the other hand, the mean serum non-SHBG-bound T level was 0.10 +/- 0.02 (+/- SE) nmol/L in hypopituitary boys, significantly lower than that in normal boys (0.21 +/- 0.02 nmol/L; P less than 0.02). Since serum total T concentrations were similar in the two groups, the higher serum SHBG concentration resulted in lower serum bioavailable T levels in the hypopituitary boys. These changes might explain the poor response to T treatment reported in GH-deficient patients. The lower serum non-SHBG-bound T concentrations in the GH-deficient boys suggest there may be delayed exposure of central nervous system structures to increased levels of sex hormones, which, in turn, may slow body maturation. This mechanism might play a role in the delay of puberty that occurs in patients with isolated GH deficiency.
The effect of puberty and short-term oral administration of testosterone undecanoate on GH tests and sex-steroid related plasma compounds in GH deficient patients.	In twelve boys and two girls, with idiopathic (partial) growth hormone deficiency diagnosed at prepubertal age, we studied the effect of spontaneous puberty (six patients) as well as the effect of sex-steroid priming (eight patients). Six boys received testosterone undecanoate and two girls ethinyloestradiol for 5 days. Two pubertal patients showed a normal GH response, the patients primed with testosterone or oestrogen did not, despite a distinct effect on sex-steroid related plasma compounds. Reevaluation of GH status appears to be worthwhile in GH deficient patients presenting with short stature, growth deceleration at an early pubertal age and delayed sexual maturation. Sex-steroid priming is unlikely to alter the outcome of GH testing, whenever marked growth deceleration is evident at prepubertal age.
Multiple androgenic abnormalities, including elevated free testosterone, in hyperprolactinemic women.	To investigate the basis of the hirsutism and elevated plasma dehydroepiandrosterone (DHA) and/or DHA sulfate (DHAS) in hyperprolactinemic women, we measured androgen binding parameters and an extensive profile of plasma androgens in normal (NL) and hyperprolactinemic women (HYPRL). ACTH tests and dexamethasone (dex) suppression tests were performed in subgroups. Free testosterone levels were higher in HYPRL (13.1 +/- 23.3 vs. 7.18 +/- 0.72 pg/ml; P less than 0.025), although total testosterone was comparable. This disparity was related to plasma testosterone-estradiol-binding globulin (TEBG) levels being one third lower in HYPRL (mean +/- SE, 27.4 +/- 4.0 nM) than in NL (41.2 +/- 3.7 nM; P less than 0.0125). Less striking elevations of plasma DHAS, androstenedione, and 11-deoxycortisol were found in HYPRL. Plasma total dihydrotestosterone [17 beta-hydroxy-5 alpha-androstan-3-one (tDHT)] was nearly 30% lower in HYPRL (11.2 +/- 2.6 ng/dl) than in NL (15.6 +/- 1.3 ng/dl; P less than 0.025), whereas free DHT was normal. Ratios of tDHT to precursors were lower in HYPRL (P less than 0.005). After ACTH stimulation, hyperresponsiveness of 17-hydroxyprogesterone and androstenedione were observed. Apparent adrenal enzyme efficiencies, judged from post-ACTH product to precursor ratios, were normal in HYPRL with one exception: the ratio of tDHT to total testosterone at 4 h was lower (P less than 0.05). Dex suppression normalized androgens and obliterated the abnormal tDHT to precursor ratios. These findings suggest an ACTH dependency of the abnormalities. In summary, we find that about 40% of HYPRL have an androgenic abnormality, and the most characteristic abnormality is an elevated free testosterone level (abnormal in 43%). Depressed TEBG and high DHAS levels were found with lesser frequency (19-21%). The plasma tDHT concentration was low, both in absolute terms and relative to its precursors. Dex suppressibility of the hyperandrogenemia was also observed. We postulate that PRL may exert multiple effects on steroid secretion and metabolism. Possibilities include the inhibition of the TEBG level.
A clinical evaluation of treatment with estriol vaginal cream versus suppository in postmenopausal women.	Thirty postmenopausal women with vaginal atrophy were treated with a vaginal cream or vaginal suppositories containing 0.5 mg estriol (OvestinR, Organon, The Netherlands). The preparations were given daily for 14 days and then during the next 6 weeks a maintenance dose was applied twice a week. Cervical mucus, vaginal cytology and the endometrium were studied. Blood samples were analysed for unconjugated and conjugated estriol, FSH, LH, prolactin and sex hormone binding globulin capacity, before and after 2 weeks of treatment. Subjective relief of vaginal symptoms was reported by all patients. Restoration of vaginal mucosa was confirmed by colposcopy. Some women noted a feeling of transient "vaginal heat" during the first days of treatment; otherwise no side effects were reported. Higher values for Spinnbarkeit, ferning and karyopyknotic index were found for the cream group on day 14. No endometrial stimulation was detected as judged by light microscopy in any of the samples. No significant differences between the preparations were found for any of the hormone variables, or sex hormone binding globulin capacity, except for prolactin levels after 2 weeks of treatment. Possible reasons for the disparity between the two preparations regarding peripheral variables are discussed.
Plasma androgens and sex hormone-binding globulin in the evaluation of hirsute females.	Hirsutism is usually associated with increased testosterone (T) production and metabolic clearance rates. Considerable overlap of plasma T occurs between hirsute and normal groups. Plasma levels of sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) and the factor T/SHBG might separate hirsute patients from normal subjects better than plasma T. A group of 39 hirsute females and 22 normal ovulatory control subjects were studied. Plasma T, androstenedione, and dehydroepiandrosterone were measured by radioimmunoassay; apparent free T (AFT) by equilibrium dialysis; and SHGBG by a method based on saturating the binding sites by labeled dihydrotestosterone. Mean levels of androgens and SHBG of the hirsute patients were significantly different from those of the normal subjects (P less than 0.01). Positive linear correlations were observed between T and AFT, T/SHBG and AFT, and T/SHBG and T; a negative correlation was observed between T/SHBG and SHBG, but no correlation was observed between SHBG and T or AFT. Thirty (77%) of the patients had elevated T/SHBG factors and 28 (72%) had suppressed SHBG levels. Only two patients (5%) had hirsutism associated with normal levels of androgens, SHBG, and T/SHBG. We conclude that SHBG and the factor T/SHBG separate the hirsute population better than any of the androgens studied.
Effects of drugs associated with hyperprolactinemia on plasma steroids and on steroid receptors and metabolism in human breast cancer.	Certain commonly taken pharmaceutical preparations induce increased levels of plasma prolactin. The effects of these drugs on (a) tumor steroid receptors and metabolism, and (b) plasma hormones and hormone binding proteins have been studied in postmenopausal women with breast cancer. Two groups have been compared, 18 patients on drug treatment for at least 2 months and 15 subjects with no history of drug ingestion. Patients taking medication had significantly higher levels of plasma prolactin compared with control women. No significant difference was observed between the groups with regard to the plasma concentrations of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHA) and its sulphate (DHS), testosterone, estrone, estradiol-17 beta, sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG), and albumin. Similarly, no difference was observed between these two groups with regard to estrogen receptor (ER), progestogen receptor (PR), or androgen receptor (AR) levels in the tumors nor their ability to metabolize (7(-3)H) testosterone. It is considered that the ingestion of these drugs does not affect tumor mechanisms involving steroids.
Sex hormones binding globulin in lying-in women and their newborn infants with intrauterine malnutrition]	The purpose of this research was to study the binding capacity of estrogens to the sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) in mothers and their intrauterine malnourished newborns. Blood samples were obtained from mothers at delivery, and from babies, of the umbilical cord. SHBG was measured according to the method of Mickelson and Petra. It was found in mothers of malnourished babies that the binding capacity of serum protein to dehydrotestosterone (DHT) was significantly decreased in comparison to the controls (10.63 +/- 1.61 vs 13.25 +/- 2.18 micrograms DHT/dl serum, respectively), whereas it was significantly increased in intrauterine malnourished newborns (1.01 +/- 0.24 vs 0.77 +/- 0.18, respectively). These results suggest that SHBG decrease in mothers of intrauterine malnourished newborns occurs due to a decrease in the production of fetal adrenal hormone precursors and may, therefore, be a compensating mechanism to increase placental flow.
Interrelationships between sex hormone-binding globulin and 17 beta-estradiol, testosterone, 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone, thyroxine, and triiodothyronine in prepubertal and pubertal girls.	Sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), 17 beta-estradiol (E2), testosterone (T), 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone (DHT), T4, and T3 were measured in prepubertal (age, 1--8 yr; n = 44; group I) and pubertal (age, 9--16 yr; n= 56; group II) girls. The main results were as follows. 1) In group I, a higher mean (+/- SEM) value for SHBG was found (73.5 +/- 2.82 nmol/1) compared to that in Group II (56.8 +/- 3.37; P less than 0.001). 2) Despite a significant increase of the androgens T and DHT with age in group I (rT.age = 0.578; rDHT.age = 0.544; P less than 0.01 for each), no significant alteration of SHBG with age was present. 3) In group II, a significant decrease of SHBG with age occurred (rSHBG.age = -0.438; P less than 0.35) along with the expected increases of E2 (rE2.age = 0.691; P less than 0.001), T (rT.age = 0.765; P less than 0.001), and DHT (rDHT.age = 0.712; P less than 0.001). 4) The analysis of the data by partial correlation coefficients supports the suggested role for androgens in the decline of SHBG during puberty in girls, whereas correlations of SHBG with E2 or the thyroid hormones were insignificant.
Superior compliance and efficacy of continuous combined oral estrogen-progestogen replacement therapy in postmenopausal women.	We assessed compliance, relief of climacteric symptoms, and impact on lumbar bone mineral density in two groups of 140 patients treated with a sequential estrogen-progestogen or a continuous combined replacement therapy in comparison with controls.
Serum and urinary markers of exogenous testosterone administration.	In an attempt to find optimal markers of exogenous testosterone (T) administration in male athletes, a number of compounds were measured in 11 healthy men before and after 3, 6 and 9 months of weekly administration of 250 mg i.m. T enanthate and in age-matched untreated controls. The following variables were measured in serum: T, 17 alpha-hydroxyprogesterone (17-OHP), sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), estradiol-17 beta, estrone (free + conjugated) and luteinizing hormone (LH). The following variables were measured in urine: T glucuronide (urinary T), epitestosterone glucuronide (urinary epiT), estrone (free + conjugated) and LH. Serum T, serum T/17-OHP ratio, serum T/LH ratio, serum T/SHBG ratio, serum and urinary estrogens, urinary T/creatinine-, T/epiT- and T/LH ratios increased whereas serum 17-OHP, SHBG and LH and urinary epiT/creatinine- and LH/creatinine-ratios decreased significantly during treatment. Levels above the upper reference limit were found in all subjects at 3, 6 and 9 months for serum T/17-OHP and serum and urinary T/LH ratios and at 6 months for the urinary T/epiT ratio. Levels below the lower reference limit were found in all subjects at 3, 6 and 9 months for serum LH and the urinary LH/creatinine ratio, at 3 months for the urinary epiT/creatinine ratio and at 9 months for serum 17-OHP. No other variable showed abnormal values in all subjects at the same occasion. Despite significant changes during treatment, steroid concentrations as such are poor indicators of T doping. Serum and urinary LH levels, T/LH ratios and serum T/17-OHP ratios seem to be the most reliable markers of exogenous T administration in males.
A contraceptive vaginal ring releasing norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol.	A core design contraceptive vaginal ring (CVR) releasing 650 mcg of norethindrone acetate (NA) and 10, 20, 30 or 65 mcg of ethinyl estradiol (EE) daily was developed and tested in 99 women. The CVR inhibited ovulation well with 30 or 65 mcg EE. Vaginal bleeding was better controlled than in 23 control women using NA/EE oral contraceptives. Side effects were comparable to controls for the 20 and 30 mcg EE CVR. The 65 mcg EE CVR resulted in an unacceptably high level of nausea. The 20 and 30 mcg EE CVR caused an increase in serum HDL cholesterol and triglycerides. Total cholesterol was unchanged. Angiotensinogen and sex hormone binding globulin-binding capacity were increased in a subgroup of the 20 and 30 mcg EE CVR subjects, similar to that of 20 controls using EE/gestodene oral contraceptives. This new CVR offers an excellent contraceptive alternative with the best performance provided by the 30 mcg EE dose.
Dose-finding study of a contraceptive ring releasing norethindrone acetate/ethinyl estradiol.	A core design contraceptive vaginal ring (CVR) with average daily release of 650 mcg of norethindrone acetate (NA) and 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol (EE) inhibited ovulation and controlled vaginal bleeding well, but caused some nausea. This study was designed to minimally alter the dose of steroid to see if nausea could be reduced without loss of contraceptive efficacy. This 30/650 CVR was compared to a CVR releasing 20 mcg of EE and 1000 mcg of NA (20/1000) and another releasing 25 mcg of EE and 650 mcg of NA (25/650) in 69 subjects. Twenty-three subjects using an oral contraceptive containing NA/EE served as controls. Ovulation inhibition was excellent and comparable to the OC for all formulations. The CVR provided better control of vaginal bleeding than did the OC. Side effects were equivalent to the OC with the exception of a slight increase in nausea in CVR users. Lipid changes and globulin increases were comparable to oral contraceptive users. The 20/1000 CVR increased sex hormone binding globulin-binding capacity less than the other two CVRs. The performance of the three CVRs was not significantly different, but the 25/650 showed a trend of reduced performance relative to the other two formulations.
Pharmacokinetics of levonorgestrel and ethinylestradiol in 14 women during three months of treatment with a tri-step combination oral contraceptive: serum protein binding of levonorgestrel and influence of treatment on free and total testosterone levels in the serum.	The pharmacokinetics of levonorgestrel (LNG) and ethinylestradiol (EE2) were determined in 14 healthy women (age 18 to 27 years) during a treatment period of three months with a tri-step combination oral contraceptive (Triquilar). Prior to this treatment period, the same women received a single administration of a coated tablet containing 0.125 mg LNG together with 0.03 mg EE2. There was a washout phase of one week between both treatments. Following single dose administration, a mean terminal half-life of 22 h was observed for LNG. The total clearance was 1.0 ml x min-1 x kg-1 and the volume of distribution was 128 l. During a treatment cycle, LNG levels in the serum accumulated by a factor of about four as compared to single dose administration. Steady-state drug levels were reached during the second half of each cycle. As compared to single dose administration, the following changes were observed for LNG at the end of treatment cycles one and three: reduced total (0.5 ml x min-1 x kg-1) and free clearance (50 ml x min-1 x kg-1) and a reduced volume of distribution (52 l). A concomitant increase in the SHBG concentrations by a factor of two as compared to pretreatment values was observed during treatment and appeared to be mainly responsible for the changes in the pharmacokinetics of LNG. Marked changes were also seen for the serum protein binding of LNG. After single dose administration, the free fraction of LNG was 1.4% and the fractions bound to SHBG and albumin were 55.0% and 43.6%, respectively. At the end of cycle one, the free fraction was only 1.0% and the fractions bound to SHBG and albumin were 69.4% and 30.0%, respectively. There was no difference in corresponding pharmacokinetic parameters and in the serum protein binding of LNG at the end of cycles one and three. On the last day of treatment cycles one and three, the AUC(0-4h) values of EE2 were 331.2 and 369.6 pg x ml-1 x h, respectively, which corresponds to an about 11-24% increase as compared to single dose administration, where an AUC(0-4h) value of 298.3 pg x ml-1 x h was found. Total and free testosterone concentrations decreased during treatment cycles one and three by about 41% and 55%, respectively, compared with the corresponding values measured prior to treatment.
Endocrine evaluation of testicular function.	This article reviews currently available endocrine tests that are used to evaluate adult testicular function. In many patients, all that is needed is a thorough medical history and physical examination with measurement of total testosterone, FSH, and LH levels. For others, various secondary tests are appropriate. The usefulness and pitfalls of these endocrine tests are discussed.
The pregnancy zone protein response during gestation: a metabolic challenge.	Prospective studies of pregnant women were performed to compare individual variations in the plasma concentration of sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) and pregnancy zone protein (PZP) during pregnancy, and to elucidate the degree of co-variation between these oestrogen sensitive proteins during gestation. The plasma concentration of SHBG manifested continuous increase reaching a 12-fold peak at delivery. The increase of the protease inhibitor PZP paralleled that of SHBG reaching a peak with a 25-fold increase by the beginning of the third trimester. Then it started to decline, while that of SHBG continued to increase. The synthesis of the protease inhibitor may also continue to increase during late gestation but its elimination from the circulation may be accelerated when the syncytiotrophoblastic area in contact with the maternal blood approaches its maximum. The unusually wide individual variation of PZP concentrations in non-pregnant women was confirmed. However, the individual levels increased proportionally during the progress of pregnancy, and we may speak of low, medium and high reactors for PZP. One initial conclusion to be drawn from the present findings is that the value of the plasma PZP concentration can only be interpreted from a pathophysiologic point of view if the patient's baseline level is known.
Free testosterone and abortion in early pregnancy.	To investigate the relationship between percentage of free testosterone (% free T) and the abortion rate in early pregnancy.
Adrenal steroids in serum during danazol therapy, taking into account cross-reactions between danazol metabolites and serum androgens.	To investigate the changes in the serum androgen concentrations and the Free Androgen Index (FAI) in women during danazol therapy, we measured the serum concentrations of adrenal steroids and danazol metabolites, and then examined the effects of danazol metabolites on assays for serum androgens. Thirteen women who had endometriosis were treated with danazol (300 or 400 mg/day) for 8 to 16 weeks. Blood samples were taken before, during, and after the medication. During the danazol therapy, serum testosterone (T), cortisol (F), and sex-hormone binding globulin (SHBG) significantly decreased (P < 0.05); but serum dehydroepiandrosterone-sulfate (DHEAS) and FAI increased (P < 0.05). The serum concentrations of danazol metabolites were: danazol, 209.0 +/- 28.3 (ng/mL, mean +/- SEM); delta 1-2-hydroxymethyl ethisterone, 114.4 +/- 8.4; and 2-hydroxymethyl ethisterone, 660.0 +/- 54.2. There was considerable cross-reaction between danazol metabolites and androgens [T, androstenedione (A), and dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA)] in the direct assays. As for the ratios of adrenal steroids in serum, the DHEAS/F, DHEAS/DHEA, and 11-deoxycortisol (S)/F ratios increased (P < 0.05). We conclude that the increase in FAI and DHEAS represents increased native androgenic activity with danazol, and the changes in adrenal steroid ratios in serum indicate the inhibition of 11 beta-hydroxylase and sulfatase activities during danazol therapy.
Evaluation of SHBG test for disclosure of insensitivity to androgens.	A laboratory test enabling to reveal and confirm the suspicion on the insensitivity to androgens was evaluated. The test consisted of determination of the decline in plasma level of sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) on the 7th day after administration of a single dose of testosterone preparation (Testoviron Depot 100, Schering, 2 mg/kg body weight). The upper limit of percentual SHBG decline, below which the patients can be considered normal responders (i.e. subjects without insensitivity to androgens), obtained from the follow up of the time course of SHBG changes after Testoviron application to 6 healthy men, was established as 83.6%. The level of percentual SHBG decline, above which the patients were considered non-responders with impaired peripheral sensitivity to androgens was assessed from the imprecision of immunoradiometric determination of SHBG and amounted 91.9%. The test was used and evaluated in 26 patients with 46 XY karyotype, representing various cases of intersex, gonadal dysgenesis and male hypogonadism, out of which four subjects with clinically confirmed impaired peripheral sensitivity to androgens were discovered. The test however, appeared not to be reliable in cases of very low basal SHBG levels, i.e. below 15 nmol/l.
Carefully monitored levothyroxine suppressive therapy is not associated with bone loss in premenopausal women.	We measured total body and regional (lumbar spine, femoral neck, Ward's triangle, and trochanter) bone mineral density (BMD) in 47 premenopausal women chronically treated with suppressive doses of levothyroxine (L-T4). Treatment was administered to 7 patients with nontoxic goiter or, after thyroidectomy, to 38 patients with differentiated thyroid cancer and 2 with nontoxic goiter. Patients were followed at our institution and treated with the minimal amount of L-T4 necessary to suppress TSH. At the time of evaluation, free T3 was normal in all cases, whereas free T4 was increased in 17 (36.2%). The mean daily dose of L-T4 was 154.3 +/- 5 micrograms, and the mean duration of treatment was 10.1 yr. We found no significant difference between patients and age- and weight-matched controls in BMD at any site of measurement. BMD was not correlated with duration of therapy, cumulative or mean daily dose of L-T4, serum levels of free T4, free T3, and osteocalcin. There was no difference between patients and controls in serum total calcium, intact PTH, osteocalcin, or carboxy-terminal cross-linked telopeptide of type I collagen or in the concentrations of two markers of thyroid hormone action (sex hormone-binding globulin and amino-terminal propeptide of type III procollagen). Our data suggest that L-T4 suppressive therapy, if carefully carried out and monitored, using the smallest dose necessary to suppress TSH secretion has no significant effect on bone metabolism or bone mass.
Andrological status before and after liver transplantation.	To determine the impact of liver transplantation on andrological status, we compared the endocrine profiles and spermiograms of 2 cohorts of patients before (9) and after (11) transplantation. Before liver transplantation testosterone (1.1 +/- 0.7 ng/ml) and free testosterone (2.0 +/- 1.6 pg/ml) were pathologically decreased in all 9 cases, and luteinizing hormone was lower (1.8 +/- 1.4 mIU/ml) in 5. Only 3 of 9 patients were able to produce ejaculates before liver transplantation, all of which were azoospermic. After a mean interval of 28 +/- 9 months (range 4 to 34 months) following liver transplantation testosterone (5.3 +/- 1.1 ng/ml), free testosterone (15.3 +/- 5.0 pg/ml) and luteinizing hormone (6.2 +/- 3.7 mIU/ml.) were consistently within the normal range, with a highly statistically significant difference (p < 0.025) from pre-liver transplantation values. Semen analyses after liver transplantation revealed normal density, motility and normal forms in 5 patients, 2 suffered from oligoasthenoteratospermia and 4 were unable to produce an ejaculate for semen analyses. These data demonstrate that the hypothalamic-pituitary-testicular hormone axis and gonadal tissue are capable of resuming normal function after liver transplantation in men with chronic liver failure who suffered from massive andrological dysfunction before transplantation.
Treatment of moderate and severe hirsutism by gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonists in women with polycystic ovary syndrome and idiopathic hirsutism.	To compare the therapeutic effects of a GnRH-agonist (GnRH-a), leuprolide acetate (LA) depot, versus LA plus and oral contraceptive (OC) containing cyproterone acetate in the treatment of hirsutism.
Decreased testosterone and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate concentrations are associated with increased insulin and glucose concentrations in nondiabetic men.	Although many studies indicate that increased androgenicity is associated with insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia in both premenopausal and postmenopausal women, relatively few data are available on this relationship in men. We examined the association of sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), total and free testosterone, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEA-SO4), and estradiol to glucose and insulin concentrations before and during an oral glucose tolerance test in 178 men from the San Antonio Heart Study, a population-based study of diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Total and free testosterone and DHEA-SO4 were significantly inversely associated with insulin concentrations. Free testosterone and DHEA-SO4 were also significantly inversely correlated with glucose concentrations. SHBG was weakly positively associated with glucose concentrations. Estradiol was not related to glucose or insulin concentrations. After adjustment for age, obesity, and body fat distribution, insulin concentrations remained significantly inversely correlated with free testosterone (r = -.23), total testosterone (r = -.21), and DHEA-SO4 (r = -.21; all P < .01). In conclusion, we observed that increased testosterone and DHEA-SO4 are associated with lower insulin concentrations in men. This is in striking contrast to women, where increased androgenicity is associated with insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia.
Plasma androgens and sex hormone binding globulin in women with polycystic ovaries diagnosed by transvaginal ultrasound.	In order to investigate the androgen and sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) levels in the polycystic ovary, we compared the total testosterone, free testosterone and SHBG levels in three patterns of polycystic ovary diagnosed with transvaginal ultrasonography (18 in group 1, fewer than 5 cysts identified; 16 in group 2, 5-10 cysts; and 27 in group 3, 10 or more). Free testosterone, but not total testosterone, significantly correlated with body mass index. Androgen levels were found to increase and SHBG levels to decrease with increases in the amount of ovarian cysts, and the evaluation of free testosterone was important in diagnosing the polycystic ovary syndrome.
Obesity, body fat distribution and sex hormones in men.	An unfavourable body fat distribution may cause metabolic abnormalities including diabetes and dyslipidemia. These effects may be mediated by alterations in sex hormones. In women the available data suggest that upper body adiposity is related to increased androgenicity (especially as indicated by low concentrations of sex hormone binding globulin). Few data, however, are available on these relationships in men. We therefore examined the association of total testosterone, free testosterone, oestradiol, dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate (DHEA-SO4) and sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) to waist-to-hip ratio (WHR) and conicity index in 178 men from the San Antonio Heart Study, a population-based study of diabetes and cardiovascular disease. The conicity index is equal to the abdominal circumference divided by 0.109 x the square root of (weight/height). The conicity index and WHR were significantly inversely related to DHEA-SO4 and free testosterone. SHBG was only weakly associated with body mass index (r = -0.18, P < 0.05). After adjustment for age and body mass index, DHEA-SO4 remained inversely correlated with WHR (r = -0.22, P < 0.01) and conicity index (r = -0.31, P < 0.001) and free testosterone remained inversely associated with conicity index (r = -0.21, P < 0.01). Thus, in men, the association between unfavourable body fat distribution and increased androgenicity is inverse in contrast to the situation in women.
Plasma oestrogens in postmenopausal women with endometrial cancer.	To study plasma levels of estrogens and androgens, sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) in postmenopausal patients with endometrial cancer.
The effects of a low-fat dietary intervention and tamoxifen adjuvant therapy on the serum estrogen and sex hormone-binding globulin concentrations of postmenopausal breast cancer patients.	The purpose of the study was to determine the effect of a low-fat dietary intervention, with or without concomitant tamoxifen adjuvant therapy, on serum estrogen and sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) levels in postmenopausal patients with resected breast cancer. Ninety-three patients were randomized to either reduce their fat intake to 15-20% of total calories, or to a dietary control group. Serum estradiol, estrone, estrone sulfate, and SHBG concentrations were assayed at baseline, and at 6, 12, and 18 months thereafter. In 19% of patients, the preintervention serum estradiol levels were below the sensitivity of the assay (5 pg/ml). Tamoxifen had no significant effect on serum estrogen levels, but produced an elevation in SHBG. Patients with reliably quantifiable preintervention estradiol concentrations (> or = 10 pg/ml) showed a significant reduction in serum estradiol after 6 months on the low-fat diet (average, 20%; p < 0.005); this was sustained over the 18 month study period. Serum SHBG levels were increased by tamoxifen therapy, but were reduced significantly (p = 0.01) after 12 months on the low-fat diet in patients not receiving tamoxifen. No changes in serum estrone or estrone sulfate resulted from the dietary intervention. While the low-fat diet produced significant weight loss, patients treated with tamoxifen without dietary intervention showed a gain in body weight. These weight changes produced disruptions in the normal positive correlation between body weight and serum estrone sulfate, and the negative correlation with SHBG concentration.
The effects of supraphysiologic doses of testosterone on muscle size and strength in normal men.	Athletes often take androgenic steroids in an attempt to increase their strength. The efficacy of these substances for this purpose is unsubstantiated, however.
Effect of testosterone replacement therapy on lipids and lipoproteins in hypogonadal and elderly men.	We investigated the effects of long-term testosterone replacement in hypogonadal and elderly men on lipids and lipoproteins. Twenty-two men with initial serum testosterone concentrations below 3.5 ng/ml took part in the study: 11 with hypopituitarism (1st group) and 11 otherwise healthy elderly men with low testosterone levels (2nd group). Testosterone deficiency was replaced by intramuscular injections of testosterone enanthate 200 mg every second week. Plasma levels of sex hormones, gonadotropins, SHBG, lipids and lipoproteins were determined before the treatment and after 3, 6 and 12 months of treatment. During the treatment serum testosterone and estradiol increased significantly, reaching normal levels. This was associated with a decrease in total cholesterol (from 225 +/- 16.9 mg/dl to 202 +/- 13.6 mg/dl after 6 months and 198 +/- 12.8 mg/dl after 1 year of testosterone administration, P < 0.0001 in men with hypoandrogenism associated with aging and from 255 +/- 12.1 mg/dl to 214 +/- 10.6 mg/dl after 6 months and 206 +/- 9 mg/dl after 1 year of treatment, P < 0.0001 in men with hypopituitarism) and LDL-cholesterol concentrations (from 139 +/- 12.5 mg/dl to 126 +/- 10.7 mg/dl after 6 months and 118 +/- 9.8 mg/dl after 1 year of testosterone administration, P < 0.0001 in men with hypoandrogenism associated with aging and from 178 +/- 10.3 mg/dl to 149 +/- 10.2 mg/dl after 6 months and 140 +/- 7.3 mg/dl after 1 year of treatment, P < 0.001 in men with hypopituitarism). However, no significant decrease in HDL-cholesterol levels or HDL2- and HDL3-cholesterol subfractions was observed. The effects of testosterone replacement therapy on lipids and lipoproteins were similar in both groups with different aetiology of hypogonadism. No side effects on the prostate were observed. The results of this study indicate that testosterone replacement therapy in hypogonadal and elderly men may have a beneficial effect on lipid metabolism through decreasing total cholesterol and atherogenic fraction of LDL-cholesterol without significant alterations in HDL-cholesterol levels or its subfractions HDL2-C and HDL3-C.
Clinical utility of sex hormone-binding globulin measurement.	The high-affinity binding of the sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) for testosterone and to a lesser extent for estradiol influences the circulating levels of these sex steroid hormones, their biodisposal to target cells as well as their mutual balance. Although the regulation of SHBG is still not completely understood, in vitro studies performed with human hepatocarcinoma (Hep G2) cells have shown that estrogens and thyroxine stimulate SHBG secretion, by increasing the steady state of its mRNA concentrations. These observations are in good agreement with studies showing that SHBG levels increase during oral administration of estrogens as well as in patients with thyrotoxicosis. Interestingly, SHBG levels are normal in syndromes such as the abnormal transport of thyroid hormones and/or the syndrome of thyroid hormone resistance, which can be confused with thyrotoxicosis. By contrast, the effects of androgens are controversial. In many patients with hirsutism, SHBG concentrations are low and correlate negatively with both body mass index and fasting insulin levels. Because of the inhibitory effect of both insulin and insulin-like growth factor-1 on SHBG secretion by Hep G2 cells in vitro, it has been proposed that SHBG levels could be a marker of insulin resistance and/or hyperinsulinism in humans. Furthermore, an increased risk for either noninsulin-dependent diabetes and/or the overall mortality are associated with decreased SHBG levels in postmenopausal women. Finally, in men, SHBG levels are positively correlated with the concentration of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. Therefore, the measurement of SHBG in clinical practice can be a useful diagnostic tool for: (1) correctly interpretating testosterone and estradiol serum concentrations; (2) investigating androgen-estrogen balance in gonadal and sexual dysfunctions; (3) assessing the peripheral effect of the hormones which regulate SHBG productions, and (4) evaluating insulin resistance and cardiovascular risk.
Hyperinsulinaemia, dyslipaemia and cardiovascular risk in girls with a history of premature pubarche.	Girls with a history of premature pubarche, i.e. appearance of pubic hair before 8 years of age, show hyperinsulinism in response to an oral glucose tolerance test. As hyperinsulinaemia has a major role in dyslipaemia, and is considered an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease, we assessed the patterns of plasma insulin concentration after a standard oral glucose tolerance test as well as fasting serum lipid, lipoprotein, and sex hormone-binding globulin concentrations in girls (n = 81) with premature pubarche compared with girls (n = 55) matched with them for stage and bone age to ascertain their metabolic states to identify those potentially at risk for the development of premature cardiovascular disease. Mean serum insulin concentrations were higher in patients at all pubertal stages, and associated with elevated serum triglyceride, very low density cholesterol and very low density triglyceride concentrations (p value range 0.04 to < 0.0001) but reduced sex hormone-binding globulin. Premature pubarche patients also displayed higher low density to high density lipoprotein cholesterol ratios compared with control subjects (p = 0.004 to 0.008). In conclusion, hyperinsulinaemia, decreased sex hormone-binding globulin concentrations and an unfavourable lipid pattern are common features in premature pubarche girls supporting the contention that atherogenic abnormalities composing the metabolic syndrome could start in childhood. To determine the clinical sequelae of such clustering of metabolic deviations, girls who were identified need to be followed up for the potential development of premature cardiovascular disease.
Predictors of sex hormone levels among the elderly: a study in Greece.	This study examines the relationship between a series of epidemiologic parameters (age, height, body mass index (BMI), smoking, alcohol consumption, and coffee drinking) and serum concentrations of testosterone, estradiol, sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS). Among 52 healthy, elderly Greek men, we observed that serum levels of DHEAS decreased with increasing age [19% decline per 5-year increase in age, 95% CI, -2.1-(-33.5)], obesity [48% decline for BMI >30 kg/m2 compared to <27 kg/m2, CI, -15.7-(-68.7)], and current smoking [37% decline compared to nonsmokers, CI, -9.5-(-57.2)]. Estradiol concentrations increased with increasing BMI [77.1% increase for BMI >30 kg/m2 compared to <27 kg/m2, CI, -12.0-256.3], alcohol drinking [66% increase for > or = 7 glasses/week compared to <7 glasses/week, CI, 4.4-164.4], and coffee drinking [59% increase for > or = 14 cups/week compared to > or = 14 cups/ week, CI, -0.5-155.9], and decreased among current smokers [40% decline compared to nonsmokers, CI, -64.9-0.8]. SHBG was marginally positively associated with increasing age [13% increase per 5 years, CI, -0.5-29.6]. Testosterone was significantly related only to current smoking [27% decline compared to nonsmokers, CI, -45.4-(-3.1)]. These findings suggest that several variables appear to be associated with sex steroid levels and the influence of these findings on the occurrence of hormone-related conditions warrants further exploration.
Basal reproductive hormonal profiles are altered in endurance trained men.	The purpose was to examine the basal reproductive hormonal profiles in age-matched groups of endurance trained (ET) and sedentary (SED) men under controlled conditions.
Is the free androgen index a useful clinical marker in male patients?	The clinical relevance of the free androgen index (FAI), a ratio of total testosterone (T) to sex-hormone binding globulin (SHBG), was investigated in a regional population of men (n = 40) and women (n = 30). The FAI correlated well with free testosterone (T) in both men (r = 0.551, p < 0.001) and women (r = 0.454, p < 0.01). However, there was considerable variability among individual patients. Moreover, the FAI showed no association with sperm parameters in male patients, although total T and free T showed weak associations. The FAI may be a cost-effective alternative to free T measurement in the diagnosis of oligomenorrhea and hirsutism in women as previously shown, but may have little relevance in men.
