The nonsexual marriage: assessing viability and treatment options.	This article is intended to be heuristic--to encourage conceptual, clinical, and empirical attention to assessment issues and clinical interventions in dealing with the multicausal, multidimensional problem of nonsexual marriages. Many of these marriages can be revitalized, while for others the sexual problem is indicative of a nonviable relationship. Assessment issues are explored with implications for treatment strategies.
The nature of sexual desire: a clinician's perspective.	Sexual desire is the sum of the forces that lean us toward and away from sexual behavior. The ordinary spectrum of sexual desire's intensity ranges between aversion, disinclination, indifference, interest, need, and passion. Although many individuals have a characteristic pattern of desire throughout their adult lives, this spectrum evolves considerably over the life cycle. It is clinically useful to think of desire as consisting of drive (biological), motive (individual and relationship psychology), and wish (cultural) components. Four master variables--age, gender, social situation, and health--affect sexual desire so basically that many remain blind to their presence. Five dark paradoxes of desire envelop most people at some time in their privacy: (1) Drive and motive are not in sync; (2) Behavioral fidelity is often associated with longing for infidelity; (3) Despite moral proscriptions, lust is possible; (4) Familiarity diminishes sexual interest; and (5) Derogation enhances sexual expression. Clinicians cannot afford to simplify desire's inherent contradictions. Researchers must simplify desire in order to measure it. In both the clinician's and the researcher's hands, sexual desire is a slippery concept.
Sexual disorders in the context of Darwinian psychiatry.	The thesis of this article is that a Darwinian perspective can provide medical sexology with a new theoretical framework which is useful to clarify the relationship between the evolutionary bases of human sexuality and the sex-specific vulnerability to different sexual disorders. Evolutionary theory predicts that the relative parental investment of the sexes in their offspring is associated with different mating strategies in males and females. Individuals of the sex that invests more in offspring should be more discriminative in their sexual interactions because the costs of making a poor mate choice are greater for the highest-investing sex. Because in Homo sapiens, as in many other mammal species, the higher-investing sex is the female sex, women are more discriminative in their sexual preferences and less promiscuous than men. Accordingly, the epidemiology of sexual disorders can be expected to reflect sex differences in evolved mating strategies and sexual psychology. Sexual disorders that represent extreme variants of a mating strategy involving greater voluntary control over mate choice, accurate assessment of the quality of potential mates, and a tendency toward sexual restraint should be more prevalent among women. In contrast, sexual disorders that represent extreme variants of a mating strategy involving responsiveness to a variety of sexual stimuli and a tendency toward promiscuity should occur more frequently among men. Clinical data support these predictions.
GPs' perceptions of the gender-related barriers to discussing sexual health in consultations--a qualitative study.	This paper explores the barriers related to gender that general practitioners (GPs) face when discussing sexual health matters in primary care consultations.
The content of sexual fantasies for sexual offenders.	Although the phenomenon of sexual fantasy has been extensively researched, little contemporary inquiry has investigated the content of sexual fantasy within the context of sexual offending. In this study, a qualitative analysis was used to develop a descriptive model of the phenomena of sexual fantasy during the offence process. Twenty-four adult males convicted of sexual offences provided detailed retrospective descriptions of their thoughts, emotions, and behaviors before, during, and after their offences. Using Grounded Theory, a model was developed to elucidate the content and themes of sexual fantasy for sexual offenders, as well as the way fantasy content was used in the process of sexual offending. The Sexual Fantasy Content Model (SFCM) comprises of three higher-order (level 1) and five second-order (level 2) categories that describe the content of sexual fantasy across the offence process. The level 1 categories are general sexual fantasy, nonspecific offence fantasy, and offence-specific fantasy, whereas the level 2 categories included demographic, behavioral, relational, situational, and self-perceptual considerations. The strengths of the SFCM are discussed and its clinical implications are reviewed.
Father and daughter: historical identification, present attachments and the question of passionate involvement.	An extended case description is used to illustrate and explore the notion that some children can identify with parental historical experiences as a defense against oedipal passions and mature involvement. Emphasis is placed on the nature and sequelae of a father-daughter relationship, as a function of the father's Holocaust experiences where he passed as a Christian and his post Holocaust experiences with a daughter born to him after the war. The value of adding analytic group therapy to individual analytic work is also discussed in terms of its significance as a potential activator of otherwise latent material that may lay dormant in the dyadic setting.
Evaluation and treatment of premature ejaculation: a critical review.	Premature ejaculation is the most prevalent male sexual dysfunction. The present article is a comprehensive review of the literature on premature ejaculation.
The gender identity of pedophiles: what does the outcome data tell us?.	The aim of this study was to determine whether pedophiles have a different gender identity profile compared with non-sexual offenders. Participants were 87 male adult subjects, divided into three groups: (a) 27 pedophiles who abused male victims, (b) 30 pedophiles who abused female victims, and (c) 30 non-sexual offenders. The gender identity factor was measured with the Mf scale of the MMPI and the Bem Sex Role Inventory (BSRI). Results indicated no significant inter-group differences in terms of gender identity. However, the order of the three groups regarding scores on the Bem-Masculinity and the Mf scale was as predicted. Conceptual and empirical elements related to gender identity are addressed in order to shed light on potential disturbances in the gender identity of pedophiles.
Diabetes and female sexual dysfunction: moving beyond "benign neglect".	Female sexual response is a complex, nonlinear progression from desire to arousal and orgasm. Diabetes may affect all these, but it particularly affects arousal with decreased genital sensation and lubrication. Vaginal dryness and infections may lead to dyspareunia. Predictors of sexual dysfunction in women include depression. Neither age, duration of diabetes, glycemic control, nor complications predict sexual dysfunction in women as they do in men. Objective measures of decreased genital sensation or lubrication do not correlate with a subjective sense of female sexual arousal disorder. Low androgens and possibly estrogens may be etiologic, as may numerous medications used by patients with diabetes. Practitioners should recognize the high prevalence of female sexual dysfunction (up to 50%) and potential increase, in tandem with that of diabetes. In the absence of definitive treatment evidence, psychological counseling, improvised vaginal lubricants, and low doses of estrogens or androgens have been used to relieve the personal distress of female sexual dysfunction.
Sexual function and satisfaction in heterosexual couples when men are administered sildenafil citrate (Viagra) for erectile dysfunction: a multicentre, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.	To investigate the effect of improvement in erectile dysfunction (ED) on sexual function and satisfaction measures in heterosexual couples in which the woman reports that sexual intercourse is unsatisfactory at least half of the time.
Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) scores in burn victims after revival.	This study aimed to evaluate reliability and validity of the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) in Iranian burned patients and to examine this question, "Does burn severity or other demographical characteristics affect the patient's perception of his or her quality of life after burn injury?" In this study, we used the Persian version of DLQI questionnaire; its reliability and validity has been confirmed earlier in vitiligo patients. The questionnaire was administered to a group of patients with burn scars after revival. The internal consistency of the questionnaire was assessed by Cronbach's alpha coefficient. Validity was performed using convergent validity. In all, 109 patients (mean age, 28.94) enrolled in the study. The scores of DLQI ranged from 4 to 28 (mean +/- SD, 17.76 +/- 5.55). Reliability analysis showed satisfactory result (Cronbach's alpha, 0.75). Cronbach's alpha coefficient in the patients with a Burn Index >or=15% was greater than those with <15%, which is an acceptable result. The Persian version of the DLQI is a reliable and valid instrument for assessing the impacts of burn scars on quality of life. The life quality index of all the patients irrelevant to age and sex were significantly impaired.
Intimacy, orgasm likelihood, and conflict predict sexual satisfaction in heterosexual male and female respondents.	Anonymous data provided by 417 female and 179 male sexually active heterosexual respondents showed that in long term sexual relationships, sexual satisfaction was positively correlated with two different intimacy variables, the respondent's orgasm likelihood, and negatively correlated with conflict in the relationship. Multiple linear regression permitted us to measure the effect sizes of these variables as predictors of sexual satisfaction. These findings have important implications for treatment of symptomatic couples.
Sexual functioning and partner relationships in women with turner syndrome: some empirical data and theoretical considerations regarding sexual desire.	The aim of this study was to describe marital status, sexual history, and sexual functioning in a group of women with Turner syndrome, and to compare the results with general Swedish population data. The sample consists of 57 women over 18 years of age. Data were collected from an interview, and using two self-report questionnaires: the McCoy Sexual Rating Scale and the Relationship Rating Scale (RS). Compared to population data, the women with Turner syndrome were less likely to have a partner and had had their sexual debut later. Single women differed more from the general population than did women with a partner, regarding sexual desire and sexual activity. Several women with a partner reported sexual problems, but unanimously reported being satisfied with their sex life and partner relationship. The level of sexual desire in women with Turner syndrome is discussed in relation to Levine's model of human sexual desire, where psychological and social motivational factors are considered in addition to a biologically based sexual drive (Levine, 1992).
Nonconscious processing of sexual information: a generalization to women.	Sexually competent stimuli may nonconsciously activate sexual memory and set up sexual responding. In men, subliminally presented sexual pictures facilitated recognition of sexual information. The goal of the two experiments reported here was to investigate to what extent this result can be generalized to women. A direct replication in women failed in Experiment 1. In Experiment 2, besides the male-oriented sexual picture set, pictures of two other sets were presented: female-oriented sexual pictures and baby pictures. Effects of the menstrual cycle were also examined. In Experiment 2 only male-oriented pictures showed a facilitation effect. Sensitivity for reproductive stimuli was enhanced during the midluteal phase. Like men, women may nonconsciously recognize a stimulus as sexual. This recognition process seems unrelated to the potential of the stimulus to elicit subjective arousal.
Hypoactive sexual desire disorder in postmenopausal women: quality of life and health burden.	To describe the health-related quality of life (HRQOL) implications of hypoactive sexual desire disorder (HSDD) in a national sample of postmenopausal women ages 30–70.
Validity and reliability of a scale to measure genital body image.	Women's body image dissatisfaction extends to body parts usually hidden from view--their genitals. Ability to measure genital body image is limited by lack of valid and reliable questionnaires. We subjected a previously developed questionnaire, the Genital Self Image Scale (GSIS) to psychometric testing using a variety of methods.
Women's experiences of sex and intimacy after childbirth: making the adjustment to motherhood.	The aim of this study was to explore women's experiences of changes to their sexual relationship, sexuality and intimacy, as a result of pregnancy, childbirth and parenting. A sub-sample of women was purposively selected from a larger prospective pregnancy cohort study of nulliparous women in Melbourne, Australia. Eighteen women (including a mixture of parity, birth methods and relationship status) were interviewed 2.5-3.5 years after a first birth. Interviews were transcribed verbatim and analyzed using interpretive phenomenological analysis. Women identified numerous factors affecting sexual and intimate relationships including extreme tiredness, changing lifestyles and body image issues, leading to changes in libido and intimacy in relationships. Of particular note were feelings of guilt and failure women experienced as a result of a lowered libido. Finding ways to stay connected - whether through sex, quality time together or working as a team - helped women and their partners navigate the transition to parenthood. This study demonstrates that pregnancy, childbirth and parenting can bring about significant changes to women's experiences of sex and intimacy. Women who experience significant reductions in their libido may be vulnerable to feelings of guilt and failure, connected with high expectations that they should be able to "do it all".
Efficacy of psychological interventions for sexual dysfunction: a systematic review and meta-analysis.	Sexual dysfunction is highly prevalent in the general population and associated with psychological distress and impaired sexual satisfaction. Psychological interventions are promising treatment options, as sexual dysfunction is frequently caused by and deteriorates because of psychological factors. However, research into the efficacy of psychological interventions is rather scarce and an up-to-date review of outcome studies is currently lacking. Therefore, we conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of all available studies from 1980 to 2009 to examine the efficacy of psychological interventions for patients with sexual dysfunction. A total of 20 randomized controlled studies comparing a psychological intervention with a wait-list were included in the meta-analysis. The overall post-treatment effect size for symptom severity was d = 0.58 (95% CI: 0.40 to 0.77) and for sexual satisfaction d = 0.47 (95% CI: 0.27 to 0.70). Psychological interventions were shown to especially improve symptom severity for women with Hypoactive Sexual Desire Disorder and orgasmic disorder. Our systematic review of 14 studies comparing at least two active interventions head-to-head revealed that very few comparative studies are available with large variability in effect sizes across studies (d between -0.69 and 2.29 for symptom severity and -0.56 and 14.02 for sexual satisfaction). In conclusion, psychological interventions are effective treatment options for sexual dysfunction. However, evidence varies considerably across single disorders. Good evidence exists to date for female hypoactive sexual desire disorder and female orgasmic disorder. Further research is needed on psychological interventions for other sexual dysfunctions, their long-term and comparative effects.
Supportive care needs after gynecologic cancer: where does sexual health fit in?	Descriptive, cross-sectional study.
Sexual behavior after head injury in Indian men and women.	Disorders in sexual function constitute one of the most prevalent and least discussed problems following head injury. The disorders are often the outcome of an interaction between the neurological sequelae, the psychological makeup of the individual, and the sociocultural context of the couple. In a study of 34 head-injured patients, only 13 reached their premorbid level of sexual functioning over a period of 1 year. Deviant behavior, total loss of sexual function, and sexual dysfunction were noted in the rest. Deviant behavior was consistently associated with frontal lobe damage. Otherwise, neurological indices of head injury in the dysfunctional group were not different from those of the clinically recovered group. Associated psychiatric disturbances, gender-role differences, the impact on the marital harmony of the couple, and the role of sociocultural beliefs in the etiology of the disorders are analyzed and discussed, with a particular emphasis on Indian culture.
Stress-tension reduction in the treatment of sexually tortured women--an exploratory study.	Three women who had been tortured and sexually abused during imprisonment as political prisoners during the dictatorship in the Philippines were treated with a nonverbal, manual stress-tension reduction therapy (STRT). All women had difficulty in sexual and social relationships and a series of unspecific complaints such as headache, dizziness, irritability, aggressiveness toward their own children, etc. The therapy is described. A series of four sessions was given each woman, followed by group training. A remarkable improvement was noted, and it is suggested that STRT may be use in other sexological disorders.
Sex therapy with lesbian couples: a four stage approach.	The many factors--social, cultural, psychological--that shape homosexual sexual expression render purely behavioral sex therapy models one-dimensional and ineffective for lesbian clients with sexual presenting problems. Though a behavioral approach may be useful later in the treatment of such problems, the effective clinician must first address the inimical social and cultural contexts that frame lesbian sexual impasses. This paper offers specific techniques, both direct and indirect, designed to illuminate and neutralize these contexts. Additionally, the author presents a sequence of sensate focus exercises tailored to the particular needs of lesbian couples.
Causes and treatments of sexual desire discrepancies in male couples.	Multiple causes and treatments of sexual desire discrepancies in male couples are catagorized and discussed. Theoretical constructs and examples of such problems are extrapolated primarily from the existing literature on inhibited sexual desire and from clinical experience. Treatment suggestions are based on a well-established multi-level model and adapted to apply more directly to homosexual couples.
Therapy for male couples experiencing relationship problems and sexual problems.	This article examines four issues that need to be explored by the therapist as possible causes of stress for a male couple: stereotypic male roles, stereotypic sexual roles, homophobia, which includes the "coming out" process, and sexual dysfunctions. These issues can cause anxiety and stress, which may in turn cause relationship problems for a male couple. The role of the therapist is clarified and suggestions for treatment are given.
On charm.	This paper undertakes a psychoanalytic investigation of charm. Mythology, art, literature, music, high and popular culture all bear witness to the importance of charm for the human psyche. As an attribute of personality, charm gives its possessor extraordinary power since we are all susceptible to its magic. In fact charm and magic refer to the same phenomenon, the promise of blissful sleep at the breast of Mother, the omnipotent charmer. Analysts may be especially susceptible to charm with its promise of conflict-free blissful sleep. Clinical material is presented to show how analytic work on charm can yield important therapeutic results. The charm of the psychoanalytic situation provides the opportunity for a psychoanalytic understanding of charm.
Does marital therapy enhance the effectiveness of treatment for sexual dysfunction?	A controlled treatment trial was conducted with couples in which the woman suffered from secondary forms of sexual dysfunction. To test whether marital therapy is helpful in enhancing the effectiveness of symptom-specific therapy for sexual dysfunction, two treatment conditions were compared to a waiting list control group. All couples received 12 sessions of therapy directed to the sexual symptom. One half of the couples received nine sessions of relaxation and information before sex therapy, and the other half, nine sessions of marital therapy before sex therapy. Whereas both treatment conditions showed clinical and statistical improvement at termination and follow-up, treatment gains were more pronounced and more comprehensive for the couples who received the combination of marital and sex therapy. Generalization from marital therapy to sexual functioning was greater than generalization from sex therapy to marital adaptation.
Confronting internalized oppression in sex therapy with lesbians.	This paper focuses on a much-neglected aspect of therapy with lesbian clients: treatment of sexual dysfunction. It examines roots of dysfunction that can be found in cultural homophobia and misogyny, and presents a theoretical framework for intervention in the sexual problems of lesbian clients.
Enhancing relationships: understanding the feminine mystique of pretending orgasm.	As individuals become increasingly aware of their sexuality and orgasmic responsiveness, concomitantly, the phenomenon of pretending orgasm is becoming a greater part of the sexual relationship for many couples. However, few studies exist concerning this phenomenon despite the fact that nearly two-thirds of all females have reported pretending orgasm. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to profile those females who have pretended orgasm by examining the dimensions of their sexual and orgasmic behaviors, the factors that inhibit their orgasm, the dynamics of partner interaction, and any desired changes in their sexual lives. A survey research design was employed utilizing the responses of 805 professional nurses who participated in a study concerning self-perceptions of the female sexual response. The findings indicate that those females who have ever pretended orgasm became sexually active at a younger age and have been more sexually explorative than those females who have not pretended orgasm. Furthermore, the role of their sex partners was a significant dimension in their orgasmic pretense. The resultant impact on coupled relationships has many critical implications for therapists.
Psychological subtypes of anorgasmia: a marker variable approach.	Seventy-six women who presented with a principal complaint of anorgasmia were compared with a matched cohort of sexually functional controls on the domains of the Derogatis Sexual Functioning Inventory (DSFI). Patients were case matched with controls on age, race, marital status, and social class. Initial comparisons revealed significant differences between patient and control groups on a number of psychosexual characteristics, consistent with prior research. Based on evidence of heterogeneity within the patient sample and earlier research by our group, the anorgasmic cohort was partitioned by a "marker variable" approach into two anorgasmic subtypes. The marker variable used to create the subtypes was the presence of homosexual fantasies. Subsequent contrasts, both between the two anorgasmic subgroups, and with functional controls, revealed highly significant differences, and provided strong evidence for at least two psychologically distinct subtypes of anorgasmia.
Therapy of vaginismus by hypnotic desensitization.	Fear and anxiety are of tremendous importance in the production and maintenance of a symptom. Vaginismus, as a reaction of avoidance of an anxiety-producing situation, is readily amenable to treatment by systematic desensitization. This may proceed mainly in two ways: "in vitro" or "in vivo." In order to strengthen and speed up the densensitization process, we used hypnotic techniques in a dynamic approach. The "in vitro" treatment proceeds with imagery, under hypnosis, of an "anxiety hierarchy" of increasingly erotic and sexually intimate situations which will be reproduced at home with the partner, until sexual intercourse is achieved. In the "in vivo" method the patient learns self-hypnosis and then inserts in the vagina first a finger, and then Hegar dilators of gradually increasing sizes. The partner, the patient, and the physician will then successively proceed to insertion, forming a team-referred work situation. This continues until the "female superior position," practiced first with the largest dilator, is reproduced at home by intercourse. Between 1965 and 1974 we treated 71 women with this method. Good results were obtained in 16 of 18 by the "in vitro" technique and in 53 of 54 by the "in vivo" technique. One patient was referred from the "in vitro" group to the "in vivo" group. In follow-up of 2 to 5 years there was no relapse or symptom substitution.
Essay on madness and the novel: an author in search of psychiatrists]	The authors present the psychiatric comment on a French contemporary writer who has been a well-known figure. Delinquent she expressed herself by ravings of megalomania and persecution.
Sexual fantasies of sexually distressed and nondistressed men and women: an empirical comparison.	Sexual fantasies are seen as an important source of information and a modality for treatment procedures in sex therapy programs. While drive-reduction models view fantasy as a symptom of a deficiency state, cognitive-behavioral approaches take fantasies as an index of a satisfying sex life. While current data tend to support the behavioral position, no systematic comparison has been undertaken of men and women with and without sexual distress. This study compared written examples of sexual daydreaming, masturbatory and coital fantasies as well as habitual patterns of employing fantasies during sexual activities of the above mentioned groups. Other psychotherapy clients served as control. Sex differences were sparse and the comparison between distressed and nondistressed tended to support the behavioral position. Although sexual fantasizing is positively related to a satisfying sex life, fantasies are often used for reducing aversive emotions. Subjects older than 35 years showed fewer fantasies and lower correlations between daydreaming and sexual activity.
Interaction patterns and communication skills in sexually distressed, maritally distressed, and normal couples: two experimental studies.	Two experiments are reported evaluating the behavioral deficits in communication skills found in couples with secondary sexual dysfunction (primarily of the female partner). Groups of satisfied couples and couples experiencing primarily marital distress served as controls. In Experiment 1 which analyzed the most frequently chosen behavioral reactions to 22 situations in a questionnaire (KIP), sex clients and maritally distressed couples were distinguished from the normal control group. In Experiment 2, videotaped conflict discussions were analyzed. Results show that clients with sexual dysfunctions, especially a subgroup with high scores on depressed mood, have even worse ratings on influence strategies, self-acceptance, and nonverbal expression than both maritally distressed and normal couples. Implications for theory and especially for setting treatment goals and selecting treatment interventions are discussed.
Sexual fantasy and activity patterns of females with inhibited sexual desire versus normal controls.	Until recent years, female sexual fantasy was generally associated with psychopathology or negative qualities. Sexual fantasy is now regarded by the cognitive-behavioral schools as a normal occurrence serving adaptive functions. No investigation has been made comparing the sexual fantasy and activity patterns of women with a specific sexual dysfunction and women with a satisfactory sexual adjustment. This study compared responses to a fantasy questionnaire completed by 30 women reporting a satisfying sex life and 25 women who came to a sexual dysfunction clinic with a complaint of inhibited sexual desire. This study confirms that females with inhibited sexual desire fantasize less during foreplay, coitus, masturbation and general daydreaming than the controls. The content of fantasies in both groups is similar. The females with inhibited sexual desire do not masturbate less often and do not have fewer orgasms through masturbation than the controls. The females with inhibited sexual desire have fewer orgasms through intercourse alone.
Resistance in directive sex therapy: recognition and management.	Resistance, in the form of marital conflict, may play an important role in mediating therapeutic efficacy with sexually dysfunctional couples. The concept of resistance is introduced with a social learning framework, and relevant research on the interface betwaeen marital factors, sexual dysfunction and treatment outcome is reviewed. Clinical guidelines for the recognition and management of resistance due to relationship discord are presented with particular emphasis on the importance of nonspeccific treatment factors.
Preorgasmic group treatment: assertiveness, marital adjustment and sexual function in women.	Five measures were used in this study to assess preorgasmic group treatment: Gambill-Richey Assertiveness Scale, Dyadic Adjustment Scale, Sexual Arousal Inventory, Survey of Sexual Activity, and General Information Questionnaire. The total sample (N = 70) was made up of two groups: a control group of 32 women and a treatment group of 38 women who had completed preorgasmic group treatment. Analysis of the data showed that the treatment group women were having orgasms more frequently, had developed significantly more positive feelings about themselves, and established better communication with their partners. In assertiveness, the treatment group was somewhat higher, while no significant differences were found on the Dyadic Adjustment Scale. Of most significance for future research was the finding of increased sexual arousal for treatment group women.
A male with autoerotic asphyxia syndrome.	Approximately 250 deaths per year in the United States are attributed to the dangerous sexual paraphilia of autoerotic asphyxia. There are few studies of live practitioners of this practice which includes the act of self-asphyxiation, usually by hanging, while masturbating. Common features of the syndrome is the adoption of the role of a female transvestite, the use of pornographic material, the special kind of location for the hanging ritual, and the dynamics arising out of having a dominant mother and physically ill father. With adolescent males the ritual tends to be solitary, while in adults the tendency is to move into a homosexual couple practice that has sadomasochistic features. The source of such a practice is an enigma to researchers in spite of the long-known history of its occurrence. Few practioners have been studied while alive, and most practitioners have been studied by psychological autopsy. The authors report the history of a 24-year-old male, with a 10-year practice of autoerotic asphyxia who was first seen for a conversion reaction which affected his ability to walk. His symptoms began soon after a vigorous and repetitive engagement in his hanging ritual which left him very light-headed and weak-kneed. He believed he had caused himself permanent physical damage and he sought professional assistance at that time.
Sexual attitudes of psychogenic and organic impotence.	Thirty organically impotent men were contrasted with 21 psychogenically impotent men and 17 normal controls. Distinctions among sexual attitudes, sexual behaviors, and sexual interests were evaluated on the Sex Form. Results suggest that impotent men can be reliably distinguished from non-impotent men on the basis of their use of activity rather than fantasy in coping with life's problems and their interest in receiving treatment for their condition. Separate comparisons between the control group and the two impotent groups further suggest that both can be reliably distinguished from normals. It is more difficult, however, to distinguish between organically and psychogenically impotent men on the basis of sexual interests, attitudes, and behavior. The findings suggest, however, that impotent men generally and psychogenically impotent men in particular tend to be individuals who have relatively low sexual drive, diminished sexual knowledge, and who are prone to active ways of coping with stress. The results are discussed in light of previous findings.
Sexual unresponsiveness and orgastic dysfunction: an empirical comparison.	Testing a hypothesis made by Kaplan, the study investigates empirical differences between women diagnosed as "sexually unresponsive" (N = 50) vs. "orgastically dysfunctional" (N = 55). Treatment was carried out in the form of couples' therapy. The two groups show significant differences with regard to occupation (sexually unresponsive women are more frequently housewives), sexual behaviour (sexually unresponsive women have a more restricted sexual life), self-perception (sexually unresponsive women describe themselves as more timid, reserved and inhibited), and sexual attitude (sexually unresponsive women are more restrictive). Therapy success and one-year follow-up show no differences between the two groups.
Beacons, breasts, symbols, sex and cancer.	Since the 1950's effective control of conception has allowed modern men and women to differentiate procreational from recreational sexual exchange. What is considered highly erotic has differed widely through time and in various cultures. In the U.S. the female breast has come to mean far more than nurturing an infant. Sexuality symbolizes youth, attractiveness, desirability and as such is used for effective commercial marketing. The reality of cancer remains to be dealt with in health care at a physical level but more is needed to assist the emotional adjustment of affected women and their partners. Brief sex therapy for sex symptoms is outlined.
Psychosexual problems in people with HIV infection: controlled study of gay men and men with haemophilia.	HIV infection can be associated with major psychological and social disturbance. Psychosexual problems would be expected to arise in the context of the infection, in view of the contribution that sexual behaviour can make to the acquisition and spread of HIV infection. Here the results of a study of the psychosexual consequences of HIV infection in gay men and men with haemophilia are presented, with the inclusion of data from control groups. Sixteen HIV-positive and 23 HIV-negative gay men, and 20 HIV-positive and 24 HIV-negative men with haemophilia with sexual partners were studied. HIV infection was found to be associated with the greater risk of development of sexual dysfunction in seropositives, in particular in relation to ejaculatory difficulties, both delayed ejaculation in the case of gay men and men with haemophilia, and premature ejaculation in the case of men with haemophilia. Possible aetiological mechanisms are considered, including the possibility of organic disease. The findings are of relevance to those involved in the care of people with HIV infection.
Clinical vampirism: blending myth and reality.	Vampires arouse strong popular interest and attract large print and film audiences. Their influence is also notable in clinical vampirism, a rare condition described in the forensic literature covering some of humanity's most shocking behaviors. Definitions of vampirism involve aspects of necrophilia, sadism, cannibalism, and a fascination with blood. Its relationships with established diagnostic categories, particularly schizophrenia and psychopathy, are also examined and illustrated by the presentation of a "modern" vampire. As myth and reality are disentangled, clinical vampirism reveals the complex mother-child dyad's blood ties running amok.
Self-image and personality traits in gender identity disorders: an empirical study.	Self-image and personality traits, measured by SASB and SCID screen respectively, were compared between transsexuals, patients diagnosed as Gender Identity Disorders of Adolescence and Adulthood, Non-transsexual Type (GIDAANT), and normal controls. Transsexual and GIDAANT patients differed significantly in both their self-image and personality traits. While both the transsexuals' and controls' self-images were positive with self-love, the GIDAANT patients had a negative self-image. On the SCID screen, the GIDAANT group fulfilled 39.8% of all axis II criteria; transsexuals fulfilled 28.6% versus 17.1% for the control group. Mean GAF scores (axis V) were 62, 70, and 83, respectively. For all patients a more negative self-image was significantly related to lower social functioning according to GAF and to more personality pathology according to SCID screen. The prevalence of additional clinical axis I and II disorders was about twice as high among GIDAANT patients as among transsexuals. Although the two conditions are closely related, we found more differences than similarities in the studied aspects and a clear tendency that the GIDAANT patients had more psychopathology overall. Although the transsexuals also differed significantly in some aspects from the controls, they showed less personality pathology and they had a normal self-image. Negative self-image, high degree of fulfilled axis II criteria, and low GAF scores seem to be corresponding factors and in this study clearly differentiate transsexuals from GIDAANT patients.
Treatment of primary vaginismus: a new perspective.	This paper challenges the efficacy of a cognitive-behavioral treatment model for women with primary vaginismus and proposes a conceptual shift from a focus on behavior to a focus on differentiation. Primary vaginismus is viewed as a somatic boundary, a symbolic description of an opportunity for differentiation. Four relevant themes are considered: 1) mastery versus incompetence; 2) autonomy versus dependence; 3) boundary versus fusion; and 4) the effect on the therapy of the therapist's level of differentiation. Change at this particular time in history involves shifts in clinical focus from sexual frequency to quality, from performance to experience, from compliance to mastery, and from utilization function to sexual potential. A case is made for sexual competence based on self-competence instead of on behavior. A reevaluation of what constitutes success, both behavioral and developmental, proposes an increase in differentiation in addition to symptom relief.
Sexual relations in a cold-weather shelter for homeless people.	This study was carried out in a cold-weather shelter targeting young people sleeping rough in London. A homeless community mental health team added screening questions to assess sexual and relationship problems. Semistructured interviews were carried out in the shelter with residents not referred to the homeless mental health team. Shelter staff were consulted about their experience of residents' sexual and relationship problems as well as their relationship to substance use.
Problems with sexuality, erotic aspects and love in elderly patients in medical consultation]	Sexual problems, especially in the elderly, are to handle as a part of the whole personality. After an informative talk about the knowledge in the field of sexuality, we have to differ between subjective and objective problems of the patient and to find out possibilities to solve real problems and conflicts. This discussion of the problems is in every case the first step to any form of therapy.
