Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health: current status and recent initiatives. Health and Community Development Branch, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Commission.	Against a background of the appalling health problems experienced by indigenous Australians, the following discussion details the current status of health services for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and recent government and non-government initiatives to address these problems. In many localities, health services are overwhelmed by the tasks confronting them. State and Territory governments, having primary responsibility for the health of all citizens, must act in close cooperation with local communities, the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Commission (ATSIC), regional councils and Aboriginal health services to ensure inequalities are addressed in health service provision to Australia's indigenous people. The Federal government, through ATSIC and the Department of Human Services and Health, has implemented a range of initiatives in order to make a significant contribution to indigenous health and welfare. A primary task remains to implement broader scale changes relevant to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people within the mainstream health services. Mainstream services have the primary responsibility, and are funded on behalf of the whole population, to address health problems in a working partnership with the communities they serve. The Australian Hospital Association and its membership can help to improve the health of indigenous peoples by actively and sensitively working with them in the localities where they live, and through advocacy in the policies and plans that shape the whole of our health system.
Medicaid managed care and STD prevention: opportunities and risks.	The shift from fee-for-service reimbursement to Medicaid managed care is intended to expand access to the uninsured and simultaneously control costs. Specific attention must be paid to sexually transmitted disease (STD) prevention because the Medicaid population and STD at-risk groups overlap in their demographic descriptions. Costly, long-term sequelae can be avoided by early treatment of many STDs. Specific agreements between Medicaid and public health agencies may encourage managed care organizations to improve service in the areas that have traditionally been the territory of public health.
Projected economic costs due to health consequences of teenagers' loss of confidentiality in obtaining reproductive health care services in Texas.	We wanted to focus on the potential consequences of recently enacted legislation in Texas that limits adolescents' ability to obtain confidential reproductive health care services.
Effectiveness and cost effectiveness of syndromic sexually transmitted infection packages in South African primary care: cluster randomised trial.	To evaluate the effectiveness and cost effectiveness of syndromic sexually transmitted infection (STI) packages on appropriate treatment and preventive management during primary care consultations.
Reproductive health and domestic violence: are the poorest women uniquely disadvantaged?	We use Demographic and Health Survey data from Cambodia, the Dominican Republic, and Haiti to compare women in different poverty and violence categories in terms of their experience of selected reproductive health outcomes. "Poor" women are those who belong to the bottom quintile of households arrayed according to a widely accepted asset-based wealth index. The results suggest that women who are both poor and have experienced violence are not unique in their reproductive health disadvantage. In particular, for all three reproductive health outcomes we consider the negative association with having experienced violence cuts across all women, poor and wealthy.
Prevalence of bacterial vaginosis among young women in low-income populations of coastal Peru.	The goal of this study was to determine the prevalence of bacterial vaginosis (BV) in Peruvian women from socioeconomically deprived populations and to determine the association between BV and risk factors for sexually transmitted diseases (STDs). Women were administered an epidemiologic survey to determine sexual risk behaviour and they provided biological samples to test for BV and STDs. The prevalence of BV was high (27%) and was significantly associated with having a bacterial STD or trichomoniasis. Age, marital status, and a history of sex work, but not of sexual experience, frequency of intercourse, and unprotected intercourse, were associated with BV. As BV may be a marker for STDs, screening for STDs should be performed in individuals with BV to promote early detection and treatment of co-infecting sexually transmitted pathogens.
Family planning clinics: facing higher costs and sicker patients.	Family planning clinics throughout the United States are facing a variety of obstacles that threaten their ability to provide necessary contraceptive services to low-income women and teenagers, according to interviews with clinic administrators. In the last few years, the proportion of patients coming to family planning agencies in need of screening or treatment for sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) has increased dramatically. Many providers report that 10-15 percent of their clients are infected with chlamydia, the most prevalent STD. The increasing costs of Pap tests and contraceptives are also major problems: As a result of recent federal legislation, the price of Pap tests has risen substantially, and that of contraceptives is beginning to increase steeply. Finally, Title X funding for family planning services has decreased 66 percent over the last decade if both cuts and inflation are taken into account. As a result of the squeeze between increased costs and decreased public funding, clinics have been forced to charge higher fees, maintain long waiting lists for appointments and curtail community outreach. In addition, growth of the family planning patient population has slowed dramatically, and even declined, in some places.
A "Community Manifesto" for gay and bisexual men: an appeal to control HIV/STDs.	In response to increasing rates of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) among men who have sex with men (MSM) in Seattle & King County, a task force including community members, HIV/AIDS professionals, and health department staff authored "A Community Manifesto: A New Response to HIV and STDs." The manifesto emphasized both personal and collective responsibility for gay and bisexual men to stop the spread of STDs.
Neonatal circumcision revisited. Fetus and Newborn Committee, Canadian Paediatric Society.	To assist physicians in providing guidance to parents regarding neonatal circumcision.
Sexually transmitted diseases and reproductive health in women.	The effect of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) on the reproductive health of women, the reasons why women bear a disproportionate percent of STD morbidity and mortality, and the factors contributing to an increased risk for STDs and their complications in women are enumerated. Conclusions and recommendations from the 1997 Institute of Medicine report, The Hidden Epidemic: Confronting Sexually Transmitted Diseases, are categorized and addressed. The categories are education, population groups, and clinical practice. The contributions of midwives to implementing pertinent Institute of Medicine recommendations in basic and continuing education programs, individual practice, and in influencing policy are detailed. Factual information about STDs, risk assessment history, essential STD-related services, and treatment guidelines are provided in tables.
