Ophthalmic abnormalities in patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma.	To determine the frequency of ophthalmic abnormalities in patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (mycosis fungoides and Sézary syndrome) and T-cell lymphoma involving the skin and to describe the clinical course of the disease with selected examples.
Phase 2 trial of oral vorinostat (suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid, SAHA) for refractory cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL).	The activity and safety of the histone deacetylase inhibitor vorinostat (suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid, SAHA) were evaluated in patients with refractory cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL). Group 1 received vorinostat 400 mg daily, group 2 received vorinostat 300 mg twice daily for 3 days with 4 days rest, and group 3 received vorinostat 300 mg twice daily for 14 days with 7 days rest followed by 200 mg twice daily. Treatment continued until disease progression or intolerable toxicity. The primary objective was to determine the complete and partial response (PR) rate. Time to response (TTR), time to progressive disease (TTP), response duration (DOR), pruritus relief, and safety were determined. Thirty-three patients who had received a median of 5 prior therapies were enrolled. Eight patients achieved a PR, including 7 with advanced disease and 4 with Sézary syndrome. The median TTR, DOR, and TTP for responders were 11.9, 15.1, and 30.2 weeks, respectively. Fourteen of 31 evaluable patients had pruritus relief. The most common drug-related AEs were fatigue, thrombocytopenia, diarrhea, and nausea. The most common grade 3 or 4 drug-related AEs were thrombocytopenia and dehydration. Vorinostat demonstrated activity in heavily pretreated patients with CTCL. The 400 mg daily regimen had the most favorable safety profile and is being further evaluated.
Cytologic evaluation of lymphadenopathy associated with mycosis fungoides and Sezary syndrome: role of immunophenotypic and molecular ancillary studies.	The most common presenting site of extracutaneous disease in mycosis fungoides and Sezary syndrome is the peripheral lymph node. Although fine-needle aspiration biopsy has been shown to be a valuable diagnostic technique in evaluating lymphadenopathy, its utility in patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma has not been extensively studied. With fine-needle aspiration biopsy, material can be collected for ancillary diagnostic studies and for morphologic evaluation.
Herpes zoster-varicella in cutaneous T-cell lymphomas.	The overall frequency of herpes zoster-varicella (HZV) infection in 221 patients with histologically confirmed cutaneous T-cell lymphoma was 10% (22 patients). The frequency of HZV infection and serious complications (viral dissemination, bacteremia) was relatively high in patients with evidence of extracutaneous involvement, especially in patients with Sézary syndrome. The major factors identified to account for this predisposition to HZV infection include intensive treatment with radiation therapy or drugs given for systemic effect and/or immunologic deficiency consequent to advanced disease. These observations are quite similar to those made in patients with Hodgkin's disease.
Skeletal manifestations in cutaneous T-cell lymphomas.	The clinical course of three patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) in whom skeletal disease developed is presented and the literature on skeletal involvement in these disorders is reviewed. Three separate types of skeletal manifestations occurred: (1) osteolytic lesions, (2) osteoblastic lesions, and (3) diffuse osteoporosis. Hypercalcemia was present in two cases. Tumor cells from two patients in short-term culture secreted osteoclast-activating factor(s). Both of these patients had pathologic evidence of osteoclast activation in bone sections. Thus, the tumor cells in certain patients with CTCL may derive from a monoclonal proliferation of a T-cell subset capable of producing humoral bone-resorbing factor(s) similar to those demonstrated in cultures of mitogen- and antigen-activated normal lymphocytes. Since skeletal lesions are unusual, it would follow that other T-cell subsets account for pathologic cell proliferation in most patients with CTCL.
Evolution of Sézary syndrome in the course of hairy cell leukemia.	A patient with a history of "leukemia" for 19 yr and documented hairy cell (HC) leukemia for 10 yr developed mycosis fungoides and the Sézary syndrome. The manifestations of both diseases were diagnostic on clinical and pathologic grounds. Ultrastructural, immunohistochemical, and surface marker techniques proved the HC to have phenotypic characteristics of the T-helper subset of lymphocytes to which the Sézary cells (SC) also belonged. Both types of cells contained tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase. HC did not infiltrate the skin. SC did not contain ribosome lamellar complexes. Because of otherwise overlapping morphology and the apparent replacement of HC by SC, it is likely that the Sézary cells constituted a genetic variant of the original neoplastic clone represented by the hairy cells. Since the biologic and therapeutic implications of such clonal evolution may be important, subtle phenotypic changes should be looked for repeatedly in patients with these diseases.
Sézary syndrome after successful treatment of Hodgkin's disease.	A patient had a cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, appearing clinically as Sézary syndrome, that developed two years after successful treatment of Hodgkin's disease with combined radiotherapy and chemotherapy. Clinical, histologic, and electron microscopic observations were made during the course of the Sézary syndrome. The malignant cells in the cell infiltrates and in the peripheral blood were characterized as T cells. There is a possible relationship of the cutaneous T-cell lymphoma to impaired immune surveillance in this patient and to the potential carcinogenicity of combined radiotherapy and chemotherapy.
Immunohistochemical study of elevated expression of squamous cell carcinoma (SCC)-related antigens in erythrodermic epidermis.	Using immunohistochemical staining with the monoclonal antibodies (mAb) of squamous cell carcinoma-related antigens (SCC-RAg), the expression of SCC-RAg in erythrodermic epidermis, which included senile erythroderma following eczema, atopic erythroderma, psoriatic erythroderma, and Sézary syndrome was examined. In senile erythroderma and atopic dermatitis, the most intense staining with SCC-RAg mAb was evident in the upper epidermis. The cytoplasm of epidermal cells showed particularly strong staining. Although serum SCC-RAg in the Sézary syndrome was not as high as in other erythroderma patients, staining with SCC-RAg mAb was relatively strong in the upper epidermis. However, in psoriatic erythroderma cases with severe skin conditions, staining was weakly positive and diffuse throughout the entire epidermis. Following treatment, SCC-RAg decreased significantly with remission. Elevated SCC-RAg release may be attributed to epidermal cells, and SCC-RAg should prove useful as a clinical marker of erythroderma.
