Hypoxic preconditioning enhances bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell migration via Kv2.1 channel and FAK activation.	Transplantation using stem cells including bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) is emerging as a potential regenerative therapy after ischemic attacks in the heart and brain. The migration capability of transplanted cells is a critical cellular function for tissue repair. Based on our recent observations that hypoxic preconditioning (HP) has multiple benefits in improving stem cell therapy and that the potassium Kv2.1 channel acts as a promoter for focal adhesion kinase (FAK) activation and cell motility, the present investigation tested the hypothesis that HP treatment can increase BMSC migration via the mechanism of increased Kv2.1 expression and FAK activities. BMSCs derived from green fluorescent protein-transgenic mice were treated under either normoxic (N-BMSC) or hypoxic (0.5% O(2)) (HP-BMSC) conditions for 24 h. Western blot analysis showed HP selectively upregulated Kv2.1 expression while leaving other K(+) channels, such as Kv1.5 and Kv1.4, unaffected. Compared with normoxic controls, significantly larger outward delayed rectifier K(+) currents were recorded in HP-BMSCs. HP enhanced BMSC migration/homing activities in vitro and after intravenous transplantation into rats subjected to permanent myocardial infarction (MI). The HP-promoted BMSC migration was inhibited by either blocking K(+) channels or knocking down Kv2.1. Supporting a relationship among HP, Kv2.1, and FAK activation, HP increased phosphorylation of FAK(397) and FAK(576/577), and this effect was antagonized by blocking K(+) channels. These findings provide novel evidence that HP enhances the ability of BMSCs to migrate and home to the injured region; this effect is mediated through a regulatory role of Kv2.1 on FAK phosphorylation/activation.
Expression and function of K(V)2-containing channels in human urinary bladder smooth muscle.	The functional role of the voltage-gated K(+) (K(V)) channels in human detrusor smooth muscle (DSM) is largely unexplored. Here, we provide molecular, electrophysiological, and functional evidence for the expression of K(V)2.1, K(V)2.2, and the electrically silent K(V)9.3 subunits in human DSM. Stromatoxin-1 (ScTx1), a selective inhibitor of K(V)2.1, K(V)2.2, and K(V)4.2 homotetrameric channels and of K(V)2.1/9.3 heterotetrameric channels, was used to examine the role of these channels in human DSM function. Human DSM tissues were obtained during open bladder surgeries from patients without a history of overactive bladder. Freshly isolated human DSM cells were studied using RT-PCR, immunocytochemistry, live-cell Ca(2+) imaging, and the perforated whole cell patch-clamp technique. Isometric DSM tension recordings of human DSM isolated strips were conducted using tissue baths. RT-PCR experiments showed mRNA expression of K(V)2.1, K(V)2.2, and K(V)9.3 (but not K(V)4.2) channel subunits in human isolated DSM cells. K(V)2.1 and K(V)2.2 protein expression was confirmed by Western blot analysis and immunocytochemistry. Perforated whole cell patch-clamp experiments revealed that ScTx1 (100 nM) inhibited the amplitude of the voltage step-induced K(V) current in freshly isolated human DSM cells. ScTx1 (100 nM) significantly increased the intracellular Ca(2+) level in DSM cells. In human DSM isolated strips, ScTx1 (100 nM) increased the spontaneous phasic contraction amplitude and muscle force, and enhanced the amplitude of the electrical field stimulation-induced contractions within the range of 3.5-30 Hz stimulation frequencies. These findings reveal that ScTx1-sensitive K(V)2-containing channels are key regulators of human DSM excitability and contractility and may represent new targets for pharmacological or genetic intervention for bladder dysfunction.
Control of voltage-gated potassium channel Kv2.2 expression by pyruvate-isocitrate cycling regulates glucose-stimulated insulin secretion.	Recent studies have shown that the pyruvate-isocitrate cycling pathway, involving the mitochondrial citrate/isocitrate carrier and the cytosolic NADP-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase (ICDc), is involved in control of glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS). Here we demonstrate that pyruvate-isocitrate cycling regulates expression of the voltage-gated potassium channel family member Kv2.2 in islet β-cells. siRNA-mediated suppression of ICDc, citrate/isocitrate carrier, or Kv2.2 expression impaired GSIS, and the effect of ICDc knockdown was rescued by re-expression of Kv2.2. Moreover, chronic exposure of β-cells to elevated fatty acids, which impairs GSIS, resulted in decreased expression of Kv2.2. Surprisingly, knockdown of ICDc or Kv2.2 increased rather than decreased outward K(+) current in the 832/13 β-cell line. Immunoprecipitation studies demonstrated interaction of Kv2.1 and Kv2.2, and co-overexpression of the two channels reduced outward K(+) current compared with overexpression of Kv2.1 alone. Also, siRNA-mediated knockdown of ICDc enhanced the suppressive effect of the Kv2.1-selective inhibitor stromatoxin1 on K(+) currents. Our data support a model in which a key function of the pyruvate-isocitrate cycle is to maintain levels of Kv2.2 expression sufficient to allow it to serve as a negative regulator of Kv channel activity. 
