4-aminopyridine prevents the conformational changes associated with p/c-type inactivation in shaker channels.	The effect of 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) on Kv channel activation has been extensively investigated, but its interaction with inactivation is less well understood. Voltage-clamp fluorimetry was used to directly monitor the action of 4-AP on conformational changes associated with slow inactivation of Shaker channels. Tetramethylrhodamine-5-maleimide was used to fluorescently label substituted cysteine residues in the S3-S4 linker (A359C) and pore (S424C). Activation- and inactivation-induced changes in fluorophore microenvironment produced fast and slow phases of fluorescence that were modified by 4-AP. In Shaker A359C, 4-AP block reduced the slow-phase contribution from 61 +/- 3 to 28 +/- 5%, suggesting that binding inhibits the conformational changes associated with slow inactivation and increased the fast phase that reports channel activation from 39 +/- 3 to 72 +/- 5%. In addition, 4-AP enhanced both fast and slow phases of fluorescence return upon repolarization (tau reduced from 87 +/- 15 to 40 +/- 1 ms and from 739 +/- 83 to 291 +/- 21 ms, respectively), suggesting that deactivation and recovery from inactivation were enhanced. In addition, the effect of 4-AP on the slow phase of fluorescence was dramatically reduced in channels with either reduced (T449V) or permanent P-type (W434F) inactivation. Interestingly, the slow phase of fluorescence return of W434F channels was enhanced by 4-AP, suggesting that 4-AP prevents the transition to C-type inactivation in these channels. These data directly demonstrate that 4-AP prevents slow inactivation of Kv channels and that 4-AP can bind to P-type-inactivated channels and selectively inhibit the onset of C-type inactivation.
Discovering potassium channel blockers from synthetic compound database by using structure-based virtual screening in conjunction with electrophysiological assay.	Potassium ion (K+) channels are attractive targets for drug discovery because of the essential roles played in biological systems. However, high-throughput screening (HTS) cannot be used to screen K+ channel blockers. To overcome this disadvantage of HTS, we have developed a virtual screening approach for discovering novel blockers of K+ channels. On the basis of a three-dimensional model of the eukaryotic K+ channels, molecular docking-based virtual screening was employed to search the chemical database MDL Available Chemicals Directory (ACD). Compounds were ranked according to their relative binding energy, favorable shape complementarity, and potential to form hydrogen bonds with the outer mouth of the K+ channel model. Twenty candidate compounds selected from the virtual screening were examined using the whole-cell voltage-clamp recording in rat dissociated hippocampal neurons. Among them, six compounds (5, 6, 8, 18-20) potently blocked both the delayed rectifier (IK) and fast transient K+ currents (IA). When applied externally, these six compounds preferentially blocked IK with potencies 2- to 500-fold higher than that of tetraethylammonium chloride. Intracellular application of the six compounds had no effect on both K+ currents. In addition, the interaction models and binding free energy calculations demonstrated that hydrophobic interaction and solvent effects play important roles in the inhibitory activities of these compounds. The results demonstrated that structure-based computer screening strategy could be used to identify novel, structurally diverse compounds targeting the pore binding pocket of the outer mouth of voltage-gated K+ channels. This study provides an alternative way of finding new blockers of voltage-gated K+ channels, while the techniques for high-throughput screening of K+ channel drugs remain in development.
Biodiversity of voltage sensor domain proteins.	The six-transmembrane type voltage-gated ion channels play an essential role in neuronal excitability, muscle contraction, and secretion. The voltage sensor domain (VSD) is the key element of voltage-gated ion channels for sensing transmembrane potential, and has been studied at the levels of both biophysics and protein structure. Two recently identified proteins containing VSD without a pore domain showed unexpected biological roles: regulation of phosphatase activity and proton permeation. These proteins not only provide novel platforms to understand mechanisms of voltage sensing and ion permeation but also highlight previously unappreciated roles of membrane potential in non-neuronal cells.
Probing the cavity of the slow inactivated conformation of shaker potassium channels.	Slow inactivation involves a local rearrangement of the outer mouth of voltage-gated potassium channels, but nothing is known regarding rearrangements in the cavity between the activation gate and the selectivity filter. We now report that the cavity undergoes a conformational change in the slow-inactivated state. This change is manifest as altered accessibility of residues facing the aqueous cavity and as a marked decrease in the affinity of tetraethylammonium for its internal binding site. These findings have implications for global alterations of the channel during slow inactivation and putative coupling between activation and slow-inactivation gates.
A direct demonstration of closed-state inactivation of K+ channels at low pH.	Lowering external pH reduces peak current and enhances current decay in Kv and Shaker-IR channels. Using voltage-clamp fluorimetry we directly determined the fate of Shaker-IR channels at low pH by measuring fluorescence emission from tetramethylrhodamine-5-maleimide attached to substituted cysteine residues in the voltage sensor domain (M356C to R362C) or S5-P linker (S424C). One aspect of the distal S3-S4 linker alpha-helix (A359C and R362C) reported a pH-induced acceleration of the slow phase of fluorescence quenching that represents P/C-type inactivation, but neither site reported a change in the total charge movement at low pH. Shaker S424C fluorescence demonstrated slow unquenching that also reflects channel inactivation and this too was accelerated at low pH. In addition, however, acidic pH caused a reversible loss of the fluorescence signal (pKa = 5.1) that paralleled the reduction of peak current amplitude (pKa = 5.2). Protons decreased single channel open probability, suggesting that the loss of fluorescence at low pH reflects a decreased channel availability that is responsible for the reduced macroscopic conductance. Inhibition of inactivation in Shaker S424C (by raising external K(+) or the mutation T449V) prevented fluorescence loss at low pH, and the fluorescence report from closed Shaker ILT S424C channels implied that protons stabilized a W434F-like inactivated state. Furthermore, acidic pH changed the fluorescence amplitude (pKa = 5.9) in channels held continuously at -80 mV. This suggests that low pH stabilizes closed-inactivated states. Thus, fluorescence experiments suggest the major mechanism of pH-induced peak current reduction is inactivation of channels from closed states from which they can activate, but not open; this occurs in addition to acceleration of P/C-type inactivation from the open state.
Two atomic constraints unambiguously position the S4 segment relative to S1 and S2 segments in the closed state of Shaker K channel.	It is now well established that the voltage-sensing S4 segment in voltage-dependent ion channels undergoes a conformational change in response to varying membrane potential. However, the magnitude of the movement of S4 relative to the membrane and the rest of the protein remains controversial. Here, by using histidine scanning mutagenesis in the Shaker K channel, we identified mutants I241H (S1 segment) and I287H (S2 segment) that generate inward currents at hyperpolarized potentials, suggesting that these residues are part of a hydrophobic plug that separates the water-accessible crevices. Additional experiments with substituted cysteine residues showed that, at hyperpolarized potentials, both I241C and I287C can spontaneously form disulphide and metal bridges with R362C, the position of the first charge-carrying residue in S4. These results constrain unambiguously the closed-state positions of the S4 segment with respect to the S1 and S2 segments, which are known to undergo little or no movement during gating. To satisfy these constraints, the S4 segment must undergo an axial rotation of approximately 180 degrees and a transmembrane (vertical) movement of approximately 6.5 A at the level of R362 in going from the open to the closed state of the channel, moving the gating charge across a focused electric field.
On the role of ball and chain interactions in recovery from the inactivation of the shaker potassium channel.	We describe a new factor in the recovery from inactivation in the ball and chain model. We propose a model in which the tension from the chain may help pull the ball away from its binding site, reducing the duration of the inactivation period. A corresponding model was built and analysed.
Control of a final gating charge transition by a hydrophobic residue in the S2 segment of a K+ channel voltage sensor.	It is now well established that the voltage-sensor domains present in voltage-gated ion channels and some phosphatases operate by transferring several charged residues (gating charges), mainly arginines located in the S4 segment, across the electric field. The conserved phenylalanine F(290) located in the S2 segment of the Shaker K channel is an aromatic residue thought to interact with all the four gating arginines carried by the S4 segment and control their transfer [Tao X, et al. (2010) Science 328:67-73]. In this paper we study the possible interaction of the gating charges with this residue by directly detecting their movement with gating current measurements in 12 F(290) mutants. Most mutations do not significantly alter the first approximately 80-90% of the gating charge transfer nor the kinetics of the gating currents during activation. The effects of the F(290) mutants are (i) the modification of a final activation transition accounting for approximately 10-20% of the total charge, similar to the effect of the ILT mutant [Ledwell JL, et al. (1999) J Gen Physiol 113:389-414] and (ii) the modification of the kinetics of the gating charge movement during deactivation. These effects are well correlated with the hydrophobicity of the substituted residue, showing that a hydrophobic residue at position 290 controls the energy barrier of the final gating transition. Our results suggest that F(290) controls the transfer of R(371), the fourth gating charge, during gating while not affecting the movement of the other three gating arginines.
Mode shift of the voltage sensors in Shaker K+ channels is caused by energetic coupling to the pore domain.	The voltage sensors of voltage-gated ion channels undergo a conformational change upon depolarization of the membrane that leads to pore opening. This conformational change can be measured as gating currents and is thought to be transferred to the pore domain via an annealing of the covalent link between voltage sensor and pore (S4-S5 linker) and the C terminus of the pore domain (S6). Upon prolonged depolarizations, the voltage dependence of the charge movement shifts to more hyperpolarized potentials. This mode shift had been linked to C-type inactivation but has recently been suggested to be caused by a relaxation of the voltage sensor itself. In this study, we identified two ShakerIR mutations in the S4-S5 linker (I384N) and S6 (F484G) that, when mutated, completely uncouple voltage sensor movement from pore opening. Using these mutants, we show that the pore transfers energy onto the voltage sensor and that uncoupling the pore from the voltage sensor leads the voltage sensors to be activated at more negative potentials. This uncoupling also eliminates the mode shift occurring during prolonged depolarizations, indicating that the pore influences entry into the mode shift. Using voltage-clamp fluorometry, we identified that the slow conformational change of the S4 previously correlated with the mode shift disappears when uncoupling the pore. The effects can be explained by a mechanical load that is imposed upon the voltage sensors by the pore domain and allosterically modulates its conformation. Mode shift is caused by the stabilization of the open state but leads to a conformational change in the voltage sensor.
Unresolved orthology and peculiar coding sequence properties of lamprey genes: the KCNA gene family as test case.	In understanding the evolutionary process of vertebrates, cyclostomes (hagfishes and lamprey) occupy crucial positions. Resolving molecular phylogenetic relationships of cyclostome genes with gnathostomes (jawed vertebrates) genes is indispensable in deciphering both the species tree and gene trees. However, molecular phylogenetic analyses, especially those including lamprey genes, have produced highly discordant results between gene families. To efficiently scrutinize this problem using partial genome assemblies of early vertebrates, we focused on the potassium voltage-gated channel, shaker-related (KCNA) family, whose members are mostly single-exon.
R1 in the Shaker S4 occupies the gating charge transfer center in the resting state.	During voltage-dependent activation in Shaker channels, four arginine residues in the S4 segment (R1-R4) cross the transmembrane electric field. It has been proposed that R1-R4 movement is facilitated by a "gating charge transfer center" comprising a phenylalanine (F290) in S2 plus two acidic residues, one each in S2 and S3. According to this proposal, R1 occupies the charge transfer center in the resting state, defined as the conformation in which S4 is maximally retracted toward the cytoplasm. However, other evidence suggests that R1 is located extracellular to the charge transfer center, near I287 in S2, in the resting state. To investigate the resting position of R1, we mutated I287 to histidine (I287H), paired it with histidine mutations of key voltage sensor residues, and determined the effect of extracellular Zn(2+) on channel activity. In I287H+R1H, Zn(2+) generated a slow component of activation with a maximum amplitude (A(slow,max)) of ∼56%, indicating that only a fraction of voltage sensors can bind Zn(2+) at a holding potential of -80 mV. A(slow,max) decreased after applying either depolarizing or hyperpolarizing prepulses from -80 mV. The decline of A(slow,max) after negative prepulses indicates that R1 moves inward to abolish ion binding, going beyond the point where reorientation of the I287H and R1H side chains would reestablish a binding site. These data support the proposal that R1 occupies the charge transfer center upon hyperpolarization. Consistent with this, pairing I287H with A359H in the S3-S4 loop generated a Zn(2+)-binding site. At saturating concentrations, A(slow,max) reached 100%, indicating that Zn(2+) traps the I287H+A359H voltage sensor in an absorbing conformation. Transferring I287H+A359H into a mutant background that stabilizes the resting state significantly enhanced Zn(2+) binding at -80 mV. Our results strongly support the conclusion that R1 occupies the gating charge transfer center in the resting conformation.
Tracking a complete voltage-sensor cycle with metal-ion bridges.	Voltage-gated ion channels open and close in response to changes in membrane potential, thereby enabling electrical signaling in excitable cells. The voltage sensitivity is conferred through four voltage-sensor domains (VSDs) where positively charged residues in the fourth transmembrane segment (S4) sense the potential. While an open state is known from the Kv1.2/2.1 X-ray structure, the conformational changes underlying voltage sensing have not been resolved. We present 20 additional interactions in one open and four different closed conformations based on metal-ion bridges between all four segments of the VSD in the voltage-gated Shaker K channel. A subset of the experimental constraints was used to generate Rosetta models of the conformations that were subjected to molecular simulation and tested against the remaining constraints. This achieves a detailed model of intermediate conformations during VSD gating. The results provide molecular insight into the transition, suggesting that S4 slides at least 12 Å along its axis to open the channel with a 3(10) helix region present that moves in sequence in S4 in order to occupy the same position in space opposite F290 from open through the three first closed states.
Intermediate state trapping of a voltage sensor.	Voltage sensor domains (VSDs) regulate ion channels and enzymes by undergoing conformational changes depending on membrane electrical signals. The molecular mechanisms underlying the VSD transitions are not fully understood. Here, we show that some mutations of I241 in the S1 segment of the Shaker Kv channel positively shift the voltage dependence of the VSD movement and alter the functional coupling between VSD and pore domains. Among the I241 mutants, I241W immobilized the VSD movement during activation and deactivation, approximately halfway between the resting and active states, and drastically shifted the voltage activation of the ionic conductance. This phenotype, which is consistent with a stabilization of an intermediate VSD conformation by the I241W mutation, was diminished by the charge-conserving R2K mutation but not by the charge-neutralizing R2Q mutation. Interestingly, most of these effects were reproduced by the F244W mutation located one helical turn above I241. Electrophysiology recordings using nonnatural indole derivatives ruled out the involvement of cation-Π interactions for the effects of the Trp inserted at positions I241 and F244 on the channel's conductance, but showed that the indole nitrogen was important for the I241W phenotype. Insight into the molecular mechanisms responsible for the stabilization of the intermediate state were investigated by creating in silico the mutations I241W, I241W/R2K, and F244W in intermediate conformations obtained from a computational VSD transition pathway determined using the string method. The experimental results and computational analysis suggest that the phenotype of I241W may originate in the formation of a hydrogen bond between the indole nitrogen atom and the backbone carbonyl of R2. This work provides new information on intermediate states in voltage-gated ion channels with an approach that produces minimum chemical perturbation.
