Expression of urea transporter (UT-A) mRNA in papilla and pelvic epithelium of kidney in normal and low protein fed sheep.	The identification and cloning of the urea transporter (UT) in papilla and upper pelvic epithelium of sheep kidney and the effect of a 5-week-lasting low protein diet on UT mRNAs expression in these structures are reported. Using degenerate primers we cloned by RT-PCR a 770-base pairs UT-A cDNA fragment. The deduced amino acid sequence shared 92% and 93% identity with UT-A2 protein from rabbit and rat, and from human, respectively. Quantification of UT-A mRNAs expression after LP diet was performed by quantitative RT-PCR using UT-A mutant cRNA. Compared to normal protein fed sheep, low protein diet was associated with a significant reduction of UT-A mRNA levels in pelvic epithelium (852+/-172 vs. 2024+/-260 molecules, P<0.01) and a tendency to its increase in papilla (7959+/-1741 vs. 5447+/-1040 molecules, NS). Functional studies confirmed that kidneys of low protein fed sheep increased their ability to reduce urea losses. The reduction of UT-A expression in the pelvic epithelium lining the outer medulla could be relevant for the renal conservation of urea in protein restricted sheep.
Development of a linkage map and mapping of phenotypic polymorphisms in a free-living population of Soay sheep (Ovis aries).	An understanding of the determinants of trait variation and the selective forces acting on it in natural populations would give insights into the process of evolution. The combination of long-term studies of individuals living in the wild and better genomic resources for nonmodel organisms makes achieving this goal feasible. This article reports the development of a complete linkage map in a pedigree of free-living Soay sheep on St. Kilda and its application to mapping the loci responsible for three morphological polymorphisms for which the maintenance of variation demands explanation. The map was derived from 251 microsatellite and four allozyme markers and covers 3350 cM (approximately 90% of the sheep genome) at approximately 15-cM intervals. Marker order was consistent with the published sheep map with the exception of one region on chromosome 1 and one on chromosome 12. Coat color maps to chromosome 2 where a strong candidate gene, tyrosinase-related protein 1 (TYRP1), has also been mapped. Coat pattern maps to chromosome 13, close to the candidate locus Agouti. Horn type maps to chromosome 10, a location similar to that previously identified in domestic sheep. These findings represent an advance in the dissection of the genetic diversity in the wild and provide the foundation for QTL analyses in the study population.
Five ovine mitochondrial lineages identified from sheep breeds of the near East.	Archaeozoological evidence indicates that sheep were first domesticated in the Fertile Crescent. To search for DNA sequence diversity arising from previously undetected domestication events, this survey examined nine breeds of sheep from modern-day Turkey and Israel. A total of 2027 bp of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequence from 197 sheep revealed a total of 85 haplotypes and a high level of genetic diversity. Six individuals carried three haplotypes, which clustered separately from the known ovine mtDNA lineages A, B, and C. Analysis of genetic distance, mismatch distribution, and comparisons with wild sheep confirmed that these represent two additional mtDNA lineages denoted D and E. The two haplogroup E sequences were found to link the previously identified groups A and C. The single haplogroup D sequence branched with the eastern mouflon (Ovis orientalis), urial (O. vignei), and argali (O. ammon) sheep. High sequence diversity (K = 1.86%, haplogroup D and O. orientalis) indicates that the wild progenitor of this domestic lineage remains unresolved. The identification in this study of evidence for additional domestication events adds to the emerging view that sheep were recruited from wild populations multiple times in the same way as for other livestock species such as goat, cattle, and pig.
Cloning and characterizing of the ovine MX1 gene promoter/enhancer region.	Ovine MX1 (MX1) is expressed in the uterus during the estrous cycle and is strongly up-regulated during early pregnancy in the uterus and peripheral blood leukocytes. In this study we cloned the MX1 gene promoter/enhancer, and tested its response to interferon tau (IFN-tau). To address the role of IFN tau in regulating MX1 expression, serial deletion mutants were prepared along with a clone that contained a full-length promoter including the two proximal ISREs but lacking an intronic ISRE site. Promoter deletions showed the two proximal ISRE sites, but not the intronic ISRE site, were required for maximal response to IFN tau. Interestingly, MX1 promoter deletion mutants revealed the presence of distal positive (-920 to -715) and negative (-715 to -437) regulatory regions. Identifying positive and negative regulatory regions in MX1 promoter will help define the complex regulation of MX1 during early pregnancy in ruminants.
Regulation of the ovine MT1 melatonin receptor promoter: interaction between multiple pituitary transcription factors at different phases of development.	Pineal secretion of melatonin provides a neuroendocrine representation of the light-dark cycle, which is used to synchronise daily and annual rhythms of physiology and behaviour. In mammals, melatonin primarily acts through MT(1) melatonin receptors that exhibit a highly restricted tissue distribution. Expression of MT(1) receptors is subject to developmental and circadian control, which likely modulates the physiological actions of melatonin. To investigate the mechanisms controlling MT(1) expression we cloned the proximal 1.5kb region of the ovine MT(1) promoter. Sequence analysis revealed putative cis-elements for transcription factors involved in pituitary development, namely Pitx-1 and Egr-1, and multiple putative E-boxes, which are involved in both circadian and developmental gene regulation. Nuclear protein from ovine pars tuberalis (PT) cells, a site of high endogenous MT(1) expression, stimulated gene expression from a MT(1) expression construct, indicating the presence of a functional promoter. Pitx-1 was strongly expressed in the ovine PT and stimulated MT(1) promoter activity in transfection assays. Co-transfection with Egr-1 induced promoter-specific effects: Pitx-1-stimulated MT(1) activity was inhibited, whereas betaLH promoter activity was enhanced. In addition to Pitx-1 the circadian clock genes Clock and Bmal1 were also expressed in the PT. However, despite multiple putative E-boxes in the MT(1) promoter, transfected Clock and Bmal1 were unable to regulate either basal or Pitx-1-stimulated MT(1) promoter activity. The current data, in conjunction with our previous study of the rat MT(1) promoter, suggests a general model in which melatonin receptor expression in the mammalian pituitary is determined by the developmentally changing balance between stimulatory and inhibitory transcription factors. Furthermore, our data suggest that circadian variation in MT(1) gene expression does not depend upon the direct action of circadian clock genes on E-box cis-elements.
Unexpected heterozygosity in an island mouflon population founded by a single pair of individuals.	In population and conservation genetics, there is an overwhelming body of evidence that genetic diversity is lost over time in small populations. This idea has been supported by comparative studies showing that small populations have lower diversity than large populations. However, longitudinal studies reporting a decline in genetic diversity throughout the whole history of a given wild population are much less common. Here, we analysed changes in heterozygosity over time in an insular mouflon (Ovis aries) population founded by two individuals in 1957 and located on one of the most isolated locations in the world: the Kerguelen Sub-Antarctic archipelago. Heterozygosity measured using 25 microsatellite markers has actually increased over 46 years since the introduction, and exceeds the range predicted by neutral genetic models and stochastic simulations. Given the complete isolation of the population and the short period of time since the introduction, changes in genetic variation cannot be attributed to mutation or migration. Several lines of evidence suggest that the increase in heterozygosity with time may be attributable to selection. This study shows the importance of longitudinal genetic surveys for understanding the mechanisms that regulate genetic diversity in wild populations.
A nonsense mutation in the beta-carotene oxygenase 2 (BCO2) gene is tightly associated with accumulation of carotenoids in adipose tissue in sheep (Ovis aries).	Sheep carcasses with yellow fat are sporadically observed at Norwegian slaughter houses. This phenomenon is known to be inherited as a recessive trait, and is caused by accumulation of carotenoids in adipose tissue. Two enzymes are known to be important in carotenoid degradation in mammals, and are therefore potential candidate genes for this trait. These are beta-carotene 15,15'-monooxygenase 1 (BCMO1) and the beta-carotene oxygenase 2 (BCO2).
Molecular cloning, sequence identification and tissue expression profile of three novel genes Sfxn1, Snai2 and Cno from Black-boned sheep (Ovis aries).	The complete coding sequences of three of Black-boned sheep (Ovis aries) genes Sfxn1, Snai2 and Cno were amplified using the reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) according to the conserved sequence information of the cattle or other mammals and known highly homologous sheep ESTs. Black-boned sheep Sfxn1 gene encodes a protein of 322 amino acids which has high homology with the Sfxn1 proteins of five species--cattle 98%, pig 95%, human 95%, rat 93%, and mouse 93%. Black-boned sheep Snai2 gene encodes a protein of 268 amino acids that has high identity with the Snai2 proteins of six species--cattle 99%, pig 94%, human 93%, dog 93%, rat 91%, and mouse 90%. Black-boned sheep Cno gene encodes a protein of 214 amino acids that has high homology with the Cno proteins of four species--cattle 97%, human 75%, mouse 67%, and rat 65%. The phylogenetic tree analysis demonstrated that Black-boned sheep Sfxn1, Snai2 and Cno proteins have close relationship with cattle Sfxn1, Snai2 and Cno proteins. The tissue expression analysis indicated that Black-boned sheep Sfxn1, Snai2 and Cno genes were expressed in a range of tissues including leg muscle, kidney, skin, longissimus dorsi muscle, spleen, heart and liver. Our experiment is the first to provide the primary foundation for further insight into these three sheep genes.
Novel single nucleotide polymorphism identification in interleukin-6 gene of Pakistani sheep.	The present study aimed to identify single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in coding and non-coding regions of interleukin-6 (IL-6) gene of Pakistani sheep. The IL-6 gene of 205 animals from nine sheep breeds were sequenced for screening of SNP. Characterizing the IL-6 gene revealed thirteen SNP sites within the intronic region of IL-6 gene. The novel SNPs found in the present study can serve as genetic marker for association studies with susceptibility/resistance to parasite infection in sheep. This is first report of SNP polymorphism of IL-6 gene of Pakistani sheep.
Expression of miRNAs in ovine fetal gonads: potential role in gonadal differentiation.	Gonadal differentiation in the mammalian fetus involves a complex dose-dependent genetic network. Initiation and progression of fetal ovarian and testicular pathways are accompanied by dynamic expression patterns of thousands of genes. We postulate these expression patterns are regulated by small non-coding RNAs called microRNAs (miRNAs). The aim of this study was to identify the expression of miRNAs in mammalian fetal gonads using sheep as a model.
The Damara in the context of Southern Africa fat-tailed sheep breeds.	Sheep production is one of the most important activities in animal production in tropical regions. Southern Africa (SA) fat-tailed sheep such as the Afrikaner, Namaqua Afrikaner, Nguni, Persian Black Head, Tswana, Pedi, Sabi, and particularly the Damara are important animal genetic resources very well adapted to their harsh home environments. In this review, autochthonous sheep genetic resources of SA are reviewed regarding history and productive performance. A special focus is made to the most internationalized of such breeds: the Damara. The following aspects are reviewed: history, standards, productive performance in SA, and importation to Australia. Finally, a reference is made to the influence of fat-tailed sheep formation of composite breeds such as the Dorper or the Meatmaster.
Mini review: breeding Awassi and Assaf sheep for diverse management conditions.	The Local Awassi, a triple-purpose breed for meat, milk, and carpet-wool production, is a low-prolific, hardy breed that is well adapted to the unfavorable conditions of the Middle East, where it is managed under traditionally extensive to semi-extensive conditions. Breeding work with the Awassi has included within-breed selection, crossbreeding, and gene introgression. Those efforts resulted in a variety of Awassi-derived genotypes that successfully occupy semi-intensive as well as intensive production systems. Thus, within-breed selection resulted in development of the "Improved Awassi"-a dairy-type Awassi strain which, under intensive management, produces over 500 l milk/ewe annually; crossbreeding with the East Friesian breed led to the development of the Assaf dairy breed, which exceeds the Improved Awassi in prolificacy and in year-round breeding activity, and introgression of the B allele of the FecB locus into the Awassi and Assaf breeds resulted in the formation of the prolific Afec Awassi and Afec Assaf strains, with prolificacies of 1.9 and 2.5 lambs born per ewe lambing, respectively. Advanced molecular genetics tools have enabled a better understanding of how the Awassi breed was formed during domestication and have uncovered differences in its genetic structure compared to other breeds. Implementing large-scale selection schemes that implement emerging new information on the sheep genome, overcoming threats of inbreeding depression, and further breeding for high uterine capacity are the new breeding goals for the Awassi, Assaf, and their derivatives.
Populations and production of fat-tailed and fat-rumped sheep in the Horn of Africa.	The six countries comprising the Horn of Africa are Djibouti, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, Sudan and Somalia. Together, they cover an area of just under 5 million square kilometres and support a human population of 17.7 million at an average density of 38.15 people per square kilometre (although in the purely pastoral areas population density is probably of the order of 15-16 people per square kilometre). The Horn is a major repository of domestic animal biodiversity and genetic resources and is home to 15 million one-humped camels, 110 million cattle, 94 million goats and 102 million sheep. A list of 72 sheep "breeds" of which 23 can be considered fat-tailed or fat-rumped has been compiled for the area, although many of these are merely subtypes of a larger grouping and several are not native to the Horn. This paper provides information, where such is available, on the distribution, numbers and production parameters of the fat-tailed and fat-rumped sheep that occupy the Horn.
Molecular evidence for fat-tailed sheep domestication.	The sheep is one of the most successful and widely spread domestic animals. Archaeological evidence traces the first domestic sheep back to the Near East region around 9,000 years ago. It is also known that soon after, the domesticated sheep started to flow out of the centre of origin and spread all over the ancient world following the expansion of agriculture. Throughout time, herders, nature elements and eventually some hybridization with different wild relatives produced a multitude of breeds. However, until the advent of the molecular genetics field, very little was known about the origins of most of those breeds. Two decades after the first genetic studies, we have gathered considerable information on the origins, phylogenetic relationships and patterns of genetic diversity of the sheep across the world. Indeed, the genetic studies confirmed the Near East region as the main centre of origin and also revealed other contributions from other regions. Specifically about the fat-tailed sheep, molecular genetics was also able to link their maternal origin to a specific group. So far, modern sheep have originated from five different maternal origins. Nonetheless, the technological advances of the DNA sequencing techniques are bringing more data that is showing the complexity of the domestication process.
Fat-tailed sheep in Indonesia; an essential resource for smallholders.	This paper discusses the historical development of fat-tailed sheep in Indonesia, the dynamics of production systems, production and reproduction performances under farmers' conditions, and roles of sheep in livelihoods. In the eighteenth and nineteenth century, fat-tailed sheep from southwest Asia and Africander sheep from South Africa were introduced. Crossing of fat-tailed sheep with the local thin-tailed sheep produced the Javanese fat-tailed sheep. Main motives for the gradual change-over to fat-tailed sheep have been their potential larger body size and the preference of consumers for their meat. Management systems are changing in response to the intensification of land use. The reproductive performances of fat-tailed sheep are good. Households keep four to six animals, housed close to the family quarters. This results in very high levels of faecal bacteria contamination of drinking water sources. Sheep provide a small income, manure, security and help to accumulate capital. Sheep also play a key role in religious festivities. Farmers hardly profit from the increased demand for the feast of sacrifice; animals are sold mainly when the owners have urgent cash needs. Systematic sheep fattening can contribute to higher economic results, if sufficient family labour and crop residues are available.
Merits of the fat-tailed Barbarine sheep raised in different production systems in Tunisia: digestive, productive and reproductive characteristics.	Barbarine sheep is the dominant breed in Tunisia. This fat-tailed breed present in all production systems is characterised by metabolic and digestive adaptation to the contrasting environment conditions prevailing in the country (heat stress, water deprivation, salinity etc.). The fat tail (1.5 to 7 kg) is an energy reservoir that is used in periods of feed scarcity. Moreover, the rumen of this breed harbours a microflora enabling it to valorize low-quality roughages and native range vegetation. Barbarine sheep could make benefit from a wide range of local feed resources like fodder shrubs (e.g. cactus and oldman saltbushes), tannin-containing shrubs (e.g. Acacia cyanophylla) and agro-industrial by-products (e.g. olive cake, bran etc. conserved in the form of feed blocks or pellets). It has a very shallow anoestrous, the intensity of which is dependant upon nutrition conditions rather than day length as temperate breeds. Productive and reproductive performances of late pregnant-early suckling, pre-mating ewes and also rams of this breed are not affected when some alternative feed resources replace common feedstuffs which are expensive and cannot afford regularly to smallholders. In brief, the merits of the Barbarine sheep in the production systems and other main adaptive mechanisms of this breed are discussed in this paper. The prospective of Barbarine sheep husbandry in the system dynamics, climate change and the evolution of the socioeconomic context are also envisaged.
Molecular and pedigree analysis applied to conservation of animal genetic resources: the case of Brazilian Somali hair sheep.	The first registers of Somali sheep in Brazil are from the beginning of the 1900s. This breed, adapted to the dry climate and scarce food supply, is restricted in the northeast region of the country. Molecular marker technologies, especially those based on genotyping microsatellite and mtDNA loci, can be used in conjunction with breeding (pedigree analysis) and consequently the maintenance of genetic variation in herds. Animals from the Brazilian Somali Conservation Nuclei from Embrapa Sheep and Goats in Ceará State were used to validate genetic monitoring by traditional pedigree methods and molecular markers. Nineteen microsatellite markers and 404 base pairs from the control region of mtDNA were used. For total herd diversity, an average 5.32 alleles were found, with expected heterozygosity of 0.5896, observed heterozygosity of 0.6451, 0.4126 for molecular coancestrality, and coefficient of inbreeding (F (IS)) was -0.095. Comparing molecular coancestrality means over the years, there was a consistent increase in this parameter within the herd, increasing from 0.4157 to 0.4769 in 2 years (approx. 12% variation). Sixteen mtDNA haplotypes were identified. Inbreeding and other estimates from genealogical analyses confirm the results from molecular markers. From these results, it is possible to state that microsatellites are useful tools in genetic management of herds, especially when routine herd recording is not carried out, or there were gaps in recent generations. As well as pedigree control, genetic diversity can be optimized. Based on the results, and despite herd recording in the herd of Brazilian Somali of Embrapa Sheep and Goats, additional management measures need to be carried out in this herd to reduce inbreeding and optimize genetic variation.
Wool characteristics in the third generation of Arkharmerino × Ghezel and Arkharmerino × Moghani crossbreed sheep.	This investigation was conducted to evaluate the comparative productive performances and effect of some environmental factors on wool characteristics of Arkharmerino × Ghezel (Ar × Gh) and Arkharmerino × Moghani (Ar × Mo) crossbreed sheep. The mid-side fleece samples taken from animals during 2 years (2007-2008) were analyzed. Each sample was measured for average fiber diameter, fiber diameter variability, staple length, proportion of medullated fiber, proportion of kemp, and comfort factor. The comparative values for these fleece characteristics in F(3) generation Ar × Gh were 28.78 ± 0.48 μm, 36.84 ± 1.16%, 11.94 ± 0.35 cm, 7.07 ± 0.93%, 1.02 ± 0.23%, and 68.93%, respectively; while those traits were 29.79 ± 0.43 μm, 41.86 ± 1.16%, 11.96 ± 0.37 cm, 8.13 ± 1.06%, 2.71 ± 0.45%, and 63.33 ± 3.66% for Ar × Mo, respectively. The effects of genotype, sex, birth type, and year of birth were analyzed. Genotype had a significant (P < 0.01) effect on average fiber diameter and proportion of kemp, and Ar × Gh crossbreeds had lower diameter with less proportion of kemp. The two differences in fiber characteristics that were attributable to sex were fiber diameter variability and proportion of medullated fiber, and females had higher measure than males for both traits. Statistical analysis showed that crossbreeding with Arkharmerino generally had positive effects on the fleece favored to be used in the hand woven authentic carpet production.
A genome resource to address mechanisms of developmental programming: determination of the fetal sheep heart transcriptome.	The pregnant sheep has provided seminal insights into reproduction related to animal and human development (ovarian function, fertility, implantation, fetal growth, parturition and lactation). Fetal sheep physiology has been extensively studied since 1950, contributing significantly to the basis for our understanding of many aspects of fetal development and behaviour that remain in use in clinical practice today. Understanding mechanisms requires the combination of systems approaches uniquely available in fetal sheep with the power of genomic studies. Absence of the full range of sheep genomic resources has limited the full realization of the power of this model, impeding progress in emerging areas of pregnancy biology such as developmental programming. We have examined the expressed fetal sheep heart transcriptome using high-throughput sequencing technologies. In so doing we identified 36,737 novel transcripts and describe genes, gene variants and pathways relevant to fundamental developmental mechanisms. Genes with the highest expression levels and with novel exons in the fetal heart transcriptome are known to play central roles in muscle development. We show that high-throughput sequencing methods can generate extensive transcriptome information in the absence of an assembled and annotated genome for that species. The gene sequence data obtained provide a unique genomic resource for sheep specific genetic technology development and, combined with the polymorphism data, augment annotation and assembly of the sheep genome. In addition, identification and pathway analysis of novel fetal sheep heart transcriptome splice variants is a first step towards revealing mechanisms of genetic variation and gene environment interactions during fetal heart development.
Accuracy of pedigree and genomic predictions of carcass and novel meat quality traits in multi-breed sheep data assessed by cross-validation.	Genomic predictions can be applied early in life without impacting selection candidates. This is especially useful for meat quality traits in sheep. Carcass and novel meat quality traits were predicted in a multi-breed sheep population that included Merino, Border Leicester, Polled Dorset and White Suffolk sheep and their crosses.
Genetic polymorphisms and protein structures in growth hormone, growth hormone receptor, ghrelin, insulin-like growth factor 1 and leptin in Mehraban sheep.	The somatotropic axis, the control system for growth hormone (GH) secretion and its endogenous factors involved in the regulation of metabolism and energy partitioning, has promising potentials for producing economically valuable traits in farm animals. Here we investigated single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the genes of factors involved in the somatotropic axis for growth hormone (GH1), growth hormone receptor (GHR), ghrelin (GHRL), insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-I) and leptin (LEP), using polymerase chain reaction-single-strand conformation polymorphism (PCR-SSCP) and DNA sequencing methods in 452 individual Mehraban sheep. A nonradioactive method to allow SSCP detection was used for genomic DNA and PCR amplification of six fragments: exons 4 and 5 of GH1; exon 10 of GH receptor (GHR); exon 1 of ghrelin (GHRL); exon 1 of insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I), and exon 3 of leptin (LEP). Polymorphisms were detected in five of the six PCR products. Two electrophoretic patterns were detected for GH1 exon 4. Five conformational patterns were detected for GH1 exon 5 and LEP exon 3, and three for IGF-I exon 1. Only GHR and GHRL were monomorphic. Changes in protein structures due to variable SNPs were also analyzed. The results suggest that Mehraban sheep, a major breed that is important for the animal industry in Middle East countries, has high genetic variability, opening interesting prospects for future selection programs and preservation strategies. 
Introgression and the fate of domesticated genes in a wild mammal population.	When domesticated species are not reproductively isolated from their wild relatives, the opportunity arises for artificially selected variants to be re-introduced into the wild. However, the evolutionary consequences of introgression of domesticated genes back into the wild are poorly understood. By combining high-throughput genotyping with 25 years of long-term ecological field data, we describe the occurrence and consequences of admixture between a primitive sheep breed, the free-living Soay sheep of St Kilda, and more modern breeds. Utilizing data from a 50 K ovine SNP chip, together with forward simulations of demographic scenarios, we show that admixture occurred between Soay sheep and a more modern breed, consistent with historical accounts, approximately 150 years ago. Haplotype-sharing analyses with other breeds revealed that polymorphisms in coat colour and pattern in Soay sheep arose as a result of introgression of genetic variants favoured by artificial selection. Because the haplotypes carrying the causative mutations are known to be under natural selection in free-living Soay sheep, the admixture event created an opportunity to observe the outcome of a 'natural laboratory' experiment where ancestral and domesticated genes competed with each other. The haplotype carrying the domesticated light coat colour allele was favoured by natural selection, while the haplotype associated with the domesticated self coat pattern allele was associated with decreased survival. Therefore, we demonstrate that introgression of domesticated alleles into wild populations can provide a novel source of variation capable of generating rapid evolutionary changes. 
Effects of melatonin on superovulation and transgenic embryo transplantation in small-tailed han sheep (Ovis aries).	In this study, the effects of melatonin on superovulation and the transfer of transgenic embryos were investigated in Small-Tailed Han sheep.
Novel ovine polymorphisms and adaptive evolution in mammalian TLR2 suggest existence of multiple pathogen binding regions.	Toll-like receptors initiate inflammatory responses following the recognition of a wide repertoire of pathogens including bacteria, fungi, protozoa and viruses. They are composed of an extracellular leucine-rich repeat domain responsible for detecting pathogen-associated molecular patterns, a membrane spanning region and an intracellular Toll/Interleukin 1 receptor domain which invokes signal transduction. Toll-like receptor 2 is the most diverse of these receptors as it recognises infectious agents from a range of pathogenic groups. Over 1400 breeds of sheep exist worldwide that inhabit a diverse range of environments, which leads to the potential contact with a wide variety of pathogens likely detected by Toll-like receptor 2. In this study, we evaluated the extent of both long term evolutionary changes, across the mammalian phylogeny of the TLR2 gene, and recent divergence of this same gene in sheep breeds. Evolutionary analyses identified positive selective pressure across the mammalian phylogeny, and differential selection pressure within the artiodactyl and primate lineage. Finally, we identified localised positively-selected sites within two regions of the extracellular domain which suggest that multiple binding regions in TLR2 may be involved in pathogen detection. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that competition between host and pathogen is driving adaptation of Toll-like receptor 2 genes. 
Regulation of sheep α-TTP by dietary vitamin E and preparation of monoclonal antibody for sheep α-TTP.	α-Tocopherol transfer protein (α-TTP) is a cytosolic protein that plays an important role in regulating concentrations of plasma α-tocopherol (the most bio-active form of vitamin E). Despite the central roles that α-TTP plays in maintaining vitamin E adequacy, we have only recently proved the existence of the α-TTP gene in sheep and, for the first time, cloned its full-length cDNA. However, the study of sheep α-TTP is still in its infancy. In the present study, thirty-five local male lambs of Tan sheep with similar initial body weight were randomly divided into five groups and fed with diets supplemented with 0 (control group), 20, 100, 200, 2000IU·sheep(-1)·d(-1) vitamin E for 120 days. At the end of the experiment, the plasma and liver vitamin E contents were analyzed first and then α-TTP mRNA and protein expression levels were determined by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and Western-blot analysis, respectively. In addition, as no sheep α-TTP antibody was available, a specific monoclonal antibody (McAb) against the ovine α-TTP protein was prepared. The effect of vitamin E supplementation was confirmed by the significant changes in the concentrations of vitamin E in the plasma and liver. As shown by qRT-PCR and Western-blot analysis, dietary vitamin E does not affect sheep α-TTP gene expression, except for high levels of vitamin E supplementation, which significantly increased expression at the protein level. Importantly, the specific sheep anti-α-TTP McAb we generated could provide optimal recognition in ELISA, Western-blot and immunohistochemistry assays, which will be a powerful tool in future studies of the biological functions of sheep α-TTP.
