The consequences of short-term grazing of bioactive forages on established adult and incoming larvae populations of Teladorsagia circumcincta in lambs.	The objective of this study was to investigate the consequences of short-term grazing on bioactive forages on (i) the viability and fecundity of established adult Teladorsagia circumcincta population and (ii) the establishment and development of incoming T. circumcincta infective larvae. Forty-eight, parasite naive, 3-month old, grazing lambs were artificially infected with 8000 infective larvae of T. circumcincta on day 1 of the experiment. On day 21 p.i., lambs were allocated to one of three bioactive forage grazing treatments; chicory (Cichorium intybus), sulla (Hedysarum coronarium), lotus (Lotus pedunculatus), and the control grass/clover (Lolium perenne/Trifolium repens) forage. On day 28 of the experiment a second dose of 8000 T. circumcincta infective larvae was administered to the lambs to investigate the effects of forages on the ability of infective larvae to establish within the host. All animals were slaughtered for worm recovery on day 35, while liveweight gain, feacal egg counts (FEC) and total worm egg output were monitored regularly throughout the experiment. Although FEC or total egg output were similar among the groups, adult worm burdens at slaughter were significantly affected (P<0.05) by forage treatment during the 2 week grazing period. Lambs grazing chicory had the lowest adult worm burdens and significantly lower numbers of male worms compared to those grazing on grass/clover (P<0.01), while the lambs grazing on sulla or lotus had similar adult populations to grass/clover fed animals. The results from the worm recoveries of the second dose (immature worm burdens) were affected by physiologically and/or immunologically mediated mechanisms, which reduced larval establishment in all treatments. Nevertheless, immature worm burdens at slaughter were similar between chicory, sulla and grass/clover group, while the immature worm recoveries from the lotus group were significantly higher (P<0.05) compared to those from lambs grazing grass/clover. Overall, the results of the present study support the view that chicory can be a promising candidate species in pasture management practices to control T. circumcincta burdens.
Quantitative trait loci (QTL) mapping of resistance to strongyles and coccidia in the free-living Soay sheep (Ovis aries).	A genome-wide scan was performed to detect quantitative trait loci (QTL) for resistance to gastrointestinal parasites and ectoparasitic keds segregating in the free-living Soay sheep population on St. Kilda (UK). The mapping panel consisted of a single pedigree of 882 individuals of which 588 were genotyped. The Soay linkage map used for the scans comprised 251 markers covering the whole genome at average spacing of 15cM. The traits here investigated were the strongyle faecal egg count (FEC), the coccidia faecal oocyst count (FOC) and a count of keds (Melophagus ovinus). QTL mapping was performed by means of variance component analysis so that the genetic parameters of the study traits were also estimated and compared with previous studies in Soay and domestic sheep. Strongyle FEC and coccidia FOC showed moderate heritability (h(2)=0.26 and 0.22, respectively) in lambs but low heritability in adults (h(2)<0.10). Ked count appeared to have very low h(2) in both lambs and adults. Genome scans were performed for the traits with moderate heritability and two genomic regions reached the level of suggestive linkage for coccidia FOC in lambs (logarithm of the odds=2.68 and 2.21 on chromosomes 3 and X, respectively). We believe this is the first study to report a QTL search for parasite resistance in a free-living animal population and therefore may represent a useful reference for similar studies aimed at understanding the genetics of host-parasite co-evolution in the wild.
Coccidiosis of wild and captive European mouflons (Ovis aries) living in a natural reserve of central Italy.	Between December 2005 and November 2006, a survey on coccidiosis of wild and captive mouflons living in the Orecchiella Natural Reserve (Tuscany, Italy) was performed on faecal samples collected approximately every two months. A total of 96 samples were collected, 55 of which from wild mouflons and 41 from captive mouflons. On these faecal samples qualitative and quantitative parasitological analyses were performed; moreover, faecal cultures were made in order to identify the involved Eimeria species. Significantly higher prevalence (%) and mean intensity (mean OPG +/- SD) of coccidian infection resulted for captive mouflons (73.17% and 814.6 +/- 1297.2 OPG) comparing to wild mouflons (36.73% and 112.7 +/- 268.7 OPG). Eimeria parva, E ovinoidalis, E. bakuensis, E. ahasata, E. intricata, E. crandallis, E. granulosa, E. faurei and an Eimeria species very similar to the descriptions previously reported for E. arloingi and E. yakimoffmatschoulsky, were isolated.
A 4-years monitoring of Hypoderma diana in horses from the Czech Republic.	The occurrence of Hypoderma diana (Diptera: Hypodermatidae) in a herd of 15 horses was observed during a 4-year period (2010-2013) in northwest Bohemia. During this period, infestation by the warble fly H. diana increased from 12.5% in 2010 to 53.3% in 2013. Nodules were observed on the neck, back, stomach, legs, and head. The incidence of H. diana was probably influenced by the presence of a specific host mouflon (Ovis orientalis musimon).
