Structural characterisation and pharmacology of KHEYLRFamide (AF2) and KSAYMRFamide (PF3/AF8) from Haemonchus contortus.	The FMRFamide-related peptides (FaRPs), KHEYLRFamide (AF2) and KSAYMRFamide (PF3) were structurally characterised from the parasitic nematode of sheep, Haemonchus contortus (MH isolate). Both peptides were sequenced in a single gas-phase sequencing run and their structure confirmed by mass spectrometry which identified peptides of 920 Da (C-terminally amidated AF2) and 902/918 Da (C-terminally amidated non-oxidised/oxidised PF3, respectively). AF2 had inhibitory effects on H. contortus muscle and inhibited acetylcholine (ACh, 10 microM)-induced contractions, with a threshold for activity of 1 microM. PF3 induced concentration-dependent contractions of H. contortus (activity threshold, 10 nM) and enhanced ACh contractions. Compared with the MH isolate, an isolate of H. contortus which has reduced sensitivity to cholinergic drugs (Lawes isolate) was less sensitive to the effects of PF3. The concentration-response curves for the cholinergic compounds ACh and levamisole (LEV), and PF3, but not a control, KPNFIRFamide (PF4), showed a statistically similar shift. This study implicates PF3 in the modulation of cholinergic function in H. contortus.
The effects of urea supplementation on production and parasitological responses of sheep infected with Haemonchus contortus and Trichostrongylus colubriformis.	Merino wether lambs were individually confined and fed a basal diet of oaten chaff containing essential minerals which was untreated or contained 3% urea. Within each dietary group animals were orally infected with either 200 H. contortus (H), 1000 T. colubriformis (T) or both species (H + T) thrice weekly or remained uninfected (C). Weight gain, wool production, and parasite burden were measured over a 19-week period. Sheep on the diet containing urea gained more weight, consumed more feed and grew more wool of higher fibre diameter than their counterparts given no urea. On both diets uninfected sheep consumed more feed than infected sheep and the sheep given no urea and infected with both H and T worm species consumed the least feed. Parasitised sheep gained less weight than uninfected control sheep. Sheep with urea in their diet had lower faecal egg counts when infected with H alone or with H and T but there was no effect of urea on egg count of sheep infected with T alone. In contrast, T numbers after slaughter were reduced in sheep fed diets containing urea whereas H numbers were not affected by diet. It was concluded that supplementation with urea can increase resilience to parasitism thereby improving production and also enhance resistance mechanisms against worms in young sheep on low quality roughage diets. These responses can be partly attributed to stimulation of feed intake, presumably due to enhanced ruminal digestion, but also to elevated rumen NH3-N levels which would be expected to have increased rumen microbial protein synthesis and availability to the intestines.
Relationships between host species and morphometric patterns in Fasciola hepatica adults and eggs from the northern Bolivian Altiplano hyperendemic region.	The highest prevalences and intensities of human fasciolosis by Fasciola hepatica are found in the northern Bolivian Altiplano, where sheep and cattle are the main reservoir host species and pigs and donkeys the secondary ones. Morphometric comparisons of many linear measurements, areas and ratios of F. hepatica adults (from sheep, cattle and pigs) and eggs (from sheep, cattle, pigs and donkeys) in natural liver fluke populations of the Bolivian Altiplano, as well as of F. hepatica adults and eggs experimentally obtained in Wistar rats infected with Altiplanic sheep, cattle and pig isolates, were made using computer image analysis and an allometric model. Although morphometric values of adult flukes from natural populations of sheep, cattle, and pigs showed great overlap, there were clear differences in allometric growth. The allometries analyzed were: body area (BA) versus body length (BL), BA versus body width (BW), BA versus perimeter (Pe), BA versus distance between posterior end of body and ventral sucker (P-VS), BL versus BW, BL versus Pe, and BL versus P-VS. These allometries show a good fit in the seven pairs of variables in all the populations examined. Comparative statistical analysis of the allometries shows that fluke adult populations from sheep, cattle and pigs significantly differ in BL versus BW and BL versus P-VS functions. Statistical analysis of F. hepatica egg size shows characteristic morphometric traits in each definitive host species. In experimentally infected rats, fluke adult allometry and egg morphometry do not vary depending on the Altiplanic definitive host species isolate. Our study reveals that the definitive host species decisively influences the size of F. hepatica adults and eggs, and these influences do not persist in a rodent definitive host model.
Expressed sequence tag survey of gene expression in the scab mite Psoroptes ovis--allergens, proteases and free-radical scavengers.	Psoroptes ovis, the causative agent of sheep scab, is an important ectoparasitic mite infecting sheep, goats and cattle. Infection is characterized by an extensive dermatitis, scab formation and intense itching. Initial focal lesions spread outwards, coalesce and may extend over the whole body. The host response to infestation has all the characteristics of an immediate-type hypersensitivity reaction but the mite antigens and allergens which initiate this response are almost completely undefined. Here, 507 randomly selected cDNAs derived from a mixed population of P. ovis were sequenced and the resultant nucleotide sequences subjected to Cluster analysis and Blast searches. This analysis yielded 280 clusters of which 49 had > 1 sequence with 24 showing significant Blast X homology to another protein in the databases. There were 231 sequences which appeared on one occasion and 109 of these showed significant Blast X homology to other sequences in the databases. This analysis identified homologues of 9 different types of allergens which have been characterized in other allergic conditions such as responses to house dust mites. It also identified a number of cysteine proteases which may contribute to lesion development as well as several free-radical scavenging enzymes which may protect the mite from host immune effector responses.
Domestic animals as reservoirs for sleeping sickness in three endemic foci in south-eastern Uganda.	The persistence of sleeping sickness (human African trypanosomiasis) in some areas of south-eastern Uganda has necessitated further investigations, focusing mainly on domestic animals as reservoirs of this disease in three agro-ecological zones. The inter-zone differences in the prevalences of trypanosome infection among cattle (P < 0.001) and pigs (P < 0.001) were significant. Overall, 5.0% of the cattle, 13.9% of the pigs and 0.4% of the small ruminants investigated were found to be infected with parasites of the Trypanosoma brucei subgroup. The results of blood incubation infectivity tests (BIIT) indicated that all of the T. brucei-subgroup isolates from cattle in Kamuli district (zone I) were human-serum-sensitive. Of the zone-I pigs found infected, however, almost all (82.5%) were considered to be infected with T. brucei and many (30.2%) carried human-serum-resistant T. brucei. Pig-tsetse-human appears to be a major transmission cycle in zone I. In Mukono district (zone II), 10.5% and 26.1% of the T. brucei isolates from cattle and pigs, respectively, were human-serum-resistant, indicating that cattle-tsetse-human and pig-tsetse-human are major transmission cycles in zone II. In Tororo district (zone III), 47.3% of the T. brucei isolates from cattle were human-serum-resistant but there were no T. brucei isolates from pigs, indicating that cattle-tsetse-human is the major transmission cycle. Interestingly, as the only T. brucei isolate from sheep in zone III was human-serum-resistant, there may also be a sheep-tsetse-human cycle. In south-eastern Uganda, control efforts must be designed to eliminate the parasites not only from cattle but also from pigs and small ruminants.
Serine protease activity in excretory-secretory products of Oestrus ovis (Diptera: Oestridae) larvae.	The sheep bot fly, Oestrus ovis, is a very common myiasis of nasal and sinus cavities of sheep and goats causing severe welfare and production implications. As the viability of O. ovis adult flies strictly depends on larval abilities to assimilate and to stock nutrients from the host, it was necessary to investigate proteolytic activities in larval excretory/secretory products (ESP). ESP of O. ovis larvae degrade mucosal and plasmatic components such as mucin, albumin or immunoglobulin G. A preliminary biochemical characterization, using substrate gel analysis and inhibitor sensitivity, demonstrated the presence of at least six major serine proteases (molecular weights from 20 to 100 kDa), mainly trypsin-like, secreted in the digestive tube of larvae. Their involvement in larval trophic activity and evasion from the host immune response is further discussed as O. ovis excretory/secretory serine proteases could represent potential vaccinal targets.
Pyrosequencing analysis identifies discrete populations of Haemonchus contortus from small ruminants.	The genus Haemonchus consists of blood-sucking parasitic nematodes in the abomasum of ruminants. Members of this genus are responsible for extensive production losses, particularly of small ruminants in the tropics but are also found in temperate regions. In this study, we examined the internal transcribed spacers-1 and -2 of rRNA in Haemonchus spp. The rRNA region spanning the internal transcribed spacers-1, -2 and the 5.8S rRNA gene was amplified by PCR from each of 10 worms from Swedish sheep, a Swedish goat and Kenyan sheep. The fragments were sequenced and examined with respect to genetic differences fixed among the three isolates. These and additional worms were further analysed with Pyrosequencing technology. This technique allowed us to rapidly analyse 110 individuals in three putative polymorphic nucleotide positions that were initially identified with dideoxy sequencing. The geographical isolates could to a large extent be genetically distinguished, but none of the polymorphic positions were consistent among all individuals within each isolate. Furthermore an alignment of our sequences and a consensus sequence published for Haemonchus contortus revealed two differences in positions 123 and 196 in internal transcribed spacers-2. Although these positions were previously reported as heterogenic, no polymorphism was detected among the 30 worms sequenced in the present study. Modelling of the internal transcribed spacers-2 secondary structure based on our data also identified a new putative long-range interaction. The isolates are best described as populations. In conclusion, consistent differences were not identified and the studied isolates are therefore best described as discrete populations. This study also reveals for the first time the potential of Pyrosequencing technology as a tool in the analysis of nematode population genetics.
Non-invasive assessment of parasitic nematode species diversity in wild Soay sheep using molecular markers.	Considerable effort has been put into detecting and identifying parasitic nematodes in live ruminants, but to date most studies are limited to a small group of nematodes and/or to experimentally infected sheep. In this study, a PCR-based assay using species-specific primer pairs, located in the second internal transcribed spacer ribosomal DNA, was developed to identify nine different species from six different families of parasitic nematodes in a wild, unmanaged and naturally infected population of sheep. Each primer pair was tested for its specificity and sensitivity and it exclusively amplified the species it was designed for and exhibited a high degree of sensitivity. The method was applied to eggs and cultured larvae to identify the parasitic nematodes present in a pooled faecal sample from several host individuals with unknown parasite burden. To test detection reliability, a faecal sample from an individual with known parasite burden (through post-mortem analysis) was also examined. All species present could be correctly identified by PCR, but detecting very low levels and/or early stages of infection proved to be difficult. The method was also tested for its applicability to high through-put screening of faecal samples.
Response of two isolates of Fasciola hepatica to treatment with triclabendazole in vivo and in vitro.	In this study, the susceptibility of two isolates of Fasciola hepatica--the Fairhurst and Oberon isolates--to treatment with triclabendazole was investigated, both in vivo and in vitro. The Fairhurst isolate originated in England, but has since been maintained in Australia; the Oberon isolate originated in Australia. Triclabendazole had a very high efficacy against the Fairhurst isolate. In sheep (dose: 10 mg/kg), the efficacy ranged from 78.4% at 2 weeks post-infection to 98.5% at 6 weeks post-infection. In cattle (dose: 12 mg/kg) efficacy was 89% at 2 weeks post-infection and 100% at 12 weeks. In contrast, against the Oberon isolate, triclabendazole had 0% efficacy against 2-week-old flukes in sheep (dose: 10 mg/kg) and 5% against 4-week-old flukes. Surface changes to flukes of the two isolates were assessed by scanning electron microscopy following treatment in vitro for 24 h in triclabendazole sulphoxide (15 and 50 microg/ml). Disruption took the form of blebbing, swelling and furrowing of the tegument and was greater in the Fairhurst than the Oberon isolate. Surface changes generally were more severe in the anterior than posterior region of the fluke and the dorsal surface was also consistently more severely affected than the ventral surface. Disruption was more severe at the higher drug concentration for both isolates. The morphological data is consistent with the efficacy data, which indicates that the Fairhurst isolate of F. hepatica is susceptible to triclabendazole treatment, whilst the Oberon isolate is refractory.
The failure of Haemonchus contortus excretory/secretory products to stimulate gastrin secretion in vitro.	Excretory/secretory (ES) products collected from exsheathed L3 or parasitic stages of Haemonchus contortus were tested in vitro for gastrin stimulatory properties using an ovine abomasal antral mucosal preparation. In addition, the motility of exsheathed L3 and parasites recovered on weeks 2, 6 and 8 post-infection was studied in water, saline, saline with glucose or ovine blood and in HBSS pH 2.5-7.4. Parasitic stages became immotile rapidly in water and HBSS pH 2.5, more slowly in HBSS pH 3.5, but nearly 100% remained motile for 48 h when blood was included in the medium. Exsheathed L3 motility was reduced only by water and HBSS pH 2.5, and then only in the second week of incubation. Gastrin secretion was not consistently increased by any of the parasite ES products tested in vitro, therefore, they probably do not stimulate the G cell directly to produce the hypergastrinaemia seen in parasitised sheep.
Excretory/secretory products of sheep abomasal nematode parasites cause vacuolation and increased neutral red uptake by HeLa cells.	Excretory/secretory (ES) products of Ostertagia (Teladorsagia) circumcincta and Haemonchus contortus have been implicated in the inhibition of gastric acid secretion and vacuolation, and the loss of parietal cells associated with abomasal parasitism. Vacuolation of epithelial (HeLa) cells caused by adult O. circumcincta or L3 O. circumcincta or H. contortus ES products have been examined by differential interference contrast microscopy and by the neutral red uptake assay. ES products caused visible vacuolation of HeLa cells, and this effect was enhanced by 8 mM NH4Cl. Some parasite ES products caused a marked detachment of cells from the coverslip. At lower concentrations of ES products, neutral red uptake was usually increased above the control, but at higher concentrations of ES products, uptake was often decreased, probably because of cell detachment. Although generally consistent with direct observations of HeLa cell vacuolation by parasite chemicals, neutral red uptake was not a satisfactory quantitative assay.
Haemonchus contortus egg excretion and female length reduction in sheep previously infected with Oestrus ovis (Diptera: Oestridae) larvae.	Mixed parasitic infection of animals is a common phenomenon in nature. The existence of one species often positively or negatively influences the survival of the other. Our experimental study was started with the objectives to demonstrate the interaction of Haemonchus contortus and Oestrus ovis in relation to cellular and humoral immune responses in sheep. Twenty-two sheep of Tarasconnais breed (France) were divided into four groups (O, OH, H and C) of five or six animals. Group O and OH received 5 weekly consecutive inoculations with O. ovis L1 larvae (total = 82 L1) in the first phase of the experiment between days 0 and 28. On the second phase, groups OH and H received 5000 L3 of H. contortus on day 48 while group C served as our control throughout the experimental period. Parasitological, haematological, serological and histopathological examinations were made according to standard procedures and all animals were slaughtered at day 95. There was no significant variation in the number and degree of development of O. ovis larvae between the two infected groups. Furthermore, in tissues examined in the upper respiratory tract (nasal septum, turbinate, ethmoide and sinus), group O and OH has responded similarly on the basis of cellular inflammatory responses (blood and tissue eosinophils, mast cells and globule leucocytes (GL)) and serum antibody responses against the nasal bots. This may indicate that the presence of H. contortus in the abomasa of group OH had no marked influence over the development of O. ovis larvae in the upper respiratory tract. On the other hand, we have observed a significantly lower H. contortus female worm length, fecal egg count (FEC) and in utero egg count in animals harbouring the nasal bot (OH) than in the mono-infected group (H). This was significantly associated with higher blood eosinophilia, higher packed cell volume (PCV) and increased number of tissue eosinophils and globule leucocytes. We conclude that, the establishment of O. ovis larvae in the upper respiratory tract has initiated higher inflammatory cellular activity in group OH there by influencing the development and fecundity of H. contortus in the abomasum.
Intergeneric relations between nematodes of the digestive tract in lambs: a multivariate approach.	The interactions between nematode genera of the ovine digestive tract have been examined through a multivariate analysis performed on data previously obtained in epidemiological surveys conducted in France and Morocco. Data referring both to the frequency of genera per sheep (analysis at the individual level) and to the number of worms per genus and per animal (analysis at the host population level) were examined. The results suggest that a highly stable equilibrium between genera occurred in individual hosts possibly regulated by the host response and the interactions between the worm populations. The regulative factors which act at the host population level tend to increase the stability of the system, to promote the expression of positive interactions between the genera and also to modulate the arrangement of intergeneric relations. The multivariate analysis thus provides a means for global analysis of the relations between nematode populations with potential applications to assess the efficacy of some control measures on the whole nematode community in the digestive tract.
Interbreeding in the subfamily Ostertagiinae (Nematoda: Trichostrongylidae) of ruminants.	The interbreeding of 6 species of ostertagiines was studied in a sheep model. Virgin young females of selected nonpolymorphic strains of Ostertagia ostertagi, Ostertagia leptospicularis, and Teladorsagia circumcincta were mated with various male ostertagiines. Interbreeding was successful between O. ostertagi and Ostertagia lyrata, O. leptospicularis and Ostertagia kolchida, and T. circumcincta and Teladorsagia trifurcata, respectively. Their offspring were fertile and resembled one parent or the other without intermediate forms: each pair is a polymorphic species. Infertile hybrids, intermediate in form, were obtained from interbreeding between O. ostertagi and O. leptospicularis and they remain valid species.
Growth and development of Haemonchus contortus in jirds, Meriones unguiculatus.	Growth and development of Haemonchus contortus were examined in jirds and were compared to these processes in lambs. Number, sex, size, and stage of development were determined for worms recovered at necropsy at various times postinoculation (PI) from immunosuppressed jirds inoculated with approximately 1,000 exsheathed infective larvae (L3) of H. contortus. In addition, gastric tissue samples from jirds were examined histologically. Parallel studies were done in lambs inoculated with approximately 7,500 L3. Typically, 5-30% of the inoculum established and survived in jirds at reasonably stable numbers to day 14 PI. By day 21 PI, worm numbers in jirds decreased dramatically. Although the parasite was similar in size and development on day 4 PI in jirds and lambs, from day 7 PI on, worms were significantly smaller and less developed in jirds. On histological examination, the parasite was found only in the glandular portion of the stomach of jirds (anatomically similar to its predilection site in the abomasum of lambs), and histological changes were consistent for both host species. Although growth and development of H. contortus are slower and incomplete in jirds, the parasite establishes, grows, and develops (at anatomically comparable sites in both hosts) in this model. Thus, the model appears to provide a useful laboratory host to study H. contortus.
Development of an attractive target for the sheep blowfly Lucilia sericata.	Coloured, odour-baited, sticky targets, designed to catch the sheep blowfly Lucilia sericata Meigen are described and the results of field trials are presented. The number of L. sericata caught by the targets was positively related to target surface area and was dependent on target colour. The performance of the coloured targets is described by a model in which catch is related negatively to reflectivity in the 300-450 nm (ultra-violet/blue) band of the spectrum and positively to the reflectivity in the 450-580 nm (blue-green-yellow) band. Of the Lucilia blowflies caught by the targets, 13-16% were L.sericata and 72-75% of the L.sericata were female. The number of L.sericata caught appeared to be positively related to the availability of sheep over a relatively localized area and showed a marked decline following insecticidal dipping of sheep. The further development of targets and the implications of the results for L.sericata control are discussed.
Observations and immunohistochemical detection of Coronavirus, Cryptosporidium parvum and Giardia intestinalis in neonatal diarrhoea in lambs and kids.	In this study, clinical, parasitological, macroscopical, histopathological and immunohistochemical examinations were performed on 19 kids and 11 lambs (30 animals) with neonatal diarrhoea to detect the presence of Coronavirus, Cryptosporidium parvum and Giardia intestinalis. Clinically, severe dehydration, yellowish-green to brown coloured diarrhoea and death were observed. Mortality rates were 10-30% in the examined flocks. The most common agent was C. parvum diagnosed in 20 animals as a single causative agent, whereas G. intestinalis was found in 5 of 30 animals. These two protozoa were detected together in 4 animals upon faeces examination. Fifteen of 24 cases of C. parvum and 3 of 11 cases of G. intestinalis were also confirmed histopathologically. Following immunohistochemical examination, all cryptosporidiosis cases were confirmed by positive immunostaining of intestinal sections. Two additional Giardiosis cases with negative results upon parasitological and histopathological examinations were diagnosed by means of immunohistochemical examination. Coronavirus was detected immunohistochemically in one kid with neonatal enteritis. Following diagnosis, herds were treated with Trimethoprim + Sulfodoxine and multivitamin complexes. Intravenous and intramuscular administrations of these drugs were effective for both treatment and prevention of neonatal diarrhoea in lambs and kids.
Individual administration of three tanniferous forage plants to lambs artificially infected with Haemonchus contortus and Cooperia curticei.	We investigated direct anthelmintic effects associated with the feeding of fresh tanniferous forages against established populations of Haemonchus contortus and Cooperia curticei in lambs. Twenty-four parasite naive lambs were inoculated with a single dose of infective larvae of these two parasites 27 days prior to the start of the feeding experiment. Lambs were individually fed with either chicory (Cichorium intybus), birdsfoot trefoil (Lotus corniculatus), sainfoin (Onobrychis viciifolia) or a ryegrass/lucerne mixture (control) for 17 days. Animals where then united to one flock and subjected to control feeding for another 11 days to test the sustainability of potentially lowered egg excretion generated by tanniferous forage feeding. When compared to the control, administration of all tanniferous forages was associated with significant reductions of total daily faecal egg output specific to H. contortus (chicory: 89%; birdsfoot trefoil: 63%; sainfoin: 63%; all tests P<0.05) and a tendency of reduced H. contortus worm burden (chicory: 15%; birdsfoot trefoil: 49% and sainfoin: 35% reduction). Irrespective of the condensed tannin (CT) containing fodder, no anthelmintic effects were found against C. curticei. Cessation of CT-feeding followed by non-CT control feeding did not result in a re-emergence of faecal egg counts based on faecal dry matter (FECDM) in any group, suggesting that egg output reductions are sustainable. The moderate to high concentrations of CTs in birdsfoot trefoil (15.2 g CTs kg(-1) dry matter (DM)) and sainfoin (26.1 g CTs kg(-1) DM) were compatible with the hypothesis that the antiparasitic effect of these forages is caused by their content of CTs. For chicory (3 g CTs kg(-1) DM), however, other secondary metabolites need to be considered. Overall, birdsfoot trefoil and in particular sainfoin seem promising candidates in contributing to an integrated control strategy against H. contortus not only by mitigating parasite related health disturbances of the host but also by a sustained reduction of pasture contamination.
Trapping efficacy of Duddingtonia flagrans against Haemonchus contortus at temperatures existing at lambing in Australia.	The aim of this study was to determine the trapping efficacy of Duddingtonia flagrans against Haemonchus contortus at the temperature ranges experienced around lambing in the major sheep producing regions of Australia. Faeces were collected from Merino wethers, maintained in an animal house and which had received either D. flagrans chlamydospores for a 6-day period (DF) or not (NIL). Faeces were incubated at one of four daily temperature regimens which were composed of hourly steps to provide 6-19 degrees C, 9-25 degrees C, 14-34 degrees C and 14-39 degrees C to mimic normal diurnal air temperature variation. Enumeration of the number of preinfective and infective larvae that had migrated from or remained in faecal pellets was used to calculate percentage recovery and trapping efficacy of D. flagrans. Recovery of H. contortus larvae of both stages was significantly lower in DF faeces but the magnitude of the effect was considerably greater for infective larvae. Mean recovery of infective larvae from NIL and DF faeces was 10.6 and 0.4%, respectively, indicating a mean trapping efficacy of 96.4%. The lowest trapping efficacy (80.7%) was observed at 6-19 degrees C but total recovery of infective larvae, from DF faeces, was greatest at the two highest temperature regimens, although still less than 0.9%. The results of this study indicate that typical Australian lambing temperatures should not be a barrier to the use of D. flagrans as an effective biocontrol of H. contortus in Australia.
The prevalence, intensity and viability of hydatid cysts in slaughtered animals in the Ardabil province of Northwest Iran.	In a cross-sectional study, a total of 5381 slaughtered animals, namely 928 cattle, 243 buffaloes, 3765 sheep and 445 goats were inspected macroscopically for hydatid cysts in northwest Iran, with prevalence values of 38.3%, 11.9%, 74.4% and 20%, respectively, being recorded. Prevalences were higher in females compared with males, but a significant difference (P < 0.001) was only found in sheep and cattle. Most cases which were condemned were seen in the lungs of sheep (13.4%) indicating that sheep are the most important intermediate hosts for Echinococcus granulosus in this area.
The effects of amount, timing and distribution of simulated rainfall on the development of Haemonchus contortus to the infective larval stage.	Three studies were undertaken to determine the effects of amount, timing and distribution of simulated rainfall on the developmental success of Haemonchus contortus. Faeces containing H. contortus eggs were deposited onto pasture plots under a rainfall-activated retractable roof which eliminated incident rainfall. In October (spring) 2004 and January (summer) 2005, the effects of amount (6, 12, 18 or 24 mm) and timing (1, 4, 8 or 15 days post-faecal deposition) of a single simulated rainfall event was investigated via manual application of water to plots. More H. contortus pre-infective larvae (L1 and L2) developed under the d 1 simulated rainfall treatment than later treatments. There was no effect of rainfall amount on development in either experiment, and negligible development to infective larvae (L3). In February (summer) 2006, the effects of amount (12, 24 or 32 mm) and distribution (single event or three smaller but equal split events over 32 h) of simulated rainfall events was investigated with water applied via sprinkler. In this experiment L3 were recovered from the herbage in one-third of the plots harvested, however recovery was low (0.08% of eggs deposited) and there were no treatment effects. Recovery of L1 and L2 from faeces increased with simulated rainfall amount at d 4, and more L1 and L2 were recovered from the split distribution treatment at d 4. The results indicate that moisture conditions soon after faecal deposition are key determinants of H. contortus development success, with significant penalties on development when simulated rainfall was applied 7 days or more post-deposition, and when the duration of simulated rainfall was short. High rates of evaporation during both summer experiments resulted in rapid drying of the micro-environment and this appears to have limited development to L3.
Influence of attractants on behavior of screwworms (Diptera: Calliphoridae) in a tropical wet forest in Costa Rica.	In a mark-release-recapture study, sheep wounds and rotted liver were used as attractants to study movements of the screwworm fly, Cochliomyia hominivorax (Coquerel), in a Costa Rican tropical wet forest in the wet season. When sites were monitored for less than 1 h, liver attracted between 3 and 12.2 times more flies of both sexes than did wounds, but proportionately fewer gravid and parous females. Only 24.6% of females marked at liver sites were recaptured; seldom (3.1%) did they visit sheep wounds. Females originally marked at sheep wounds remained at the study site longer, visited both sheep and liver sites, and greater than 50% were recaptured. Some females were observed for 16 d and one laid four clutches of eggs. Only 8% of the marked males were recaptured and none was recaptured less than 2 d later. Only a small proportion of the adult screwworms at a locality visited wounds on sentinel sheep; the majority of the adults were transient.
Seasonal movement and spatial distribution of the sheep ked (Diptera: Hippoboscidae) on Wyoming lambs.	When populations of adult sheep ked, Melophagus ovinus (L.), infesting unshorn lambs were monitored at the University of Wyoming Paradise Farm during 1986, we determined the body regions on which keds would be found at various times of the year and their seasonal population trends for optimal sampling. Results suggested that ked populations were consistently greater on the ribs than on any other area of the lamb. No significant differences were detected for ked populations between sides of a lamb. Distinct and similar ked population trends over time occurred only in the rib, thigh, shoulder, hind leg, belly, and hind flank areas of the lambs, suggesting that a significant seasonal migration did not occur. Analyses for seasonal population fluctuations indicated that ked populations increased in the winter and spring, decreased in summer and then increased again in the fall. Thus, sampling for keds in the rib area at shearing, which begins in March in Wyoming and runs through mid-April, would be an opportune time to detect keds. At other times of the year, the rib area should be inspected for presence of sheep ked.
Detection of Rickettsia spp. in Haemaphysalis ticks collected in La Rioja, Spain.	In an attempt to know the potential risk of human disease after exposure to ticks in La Rioja (North of Spain), the objective of our study was to investigate the presence of Rickettsia species in Haemaphysalis ticks collected in our area. A total of 177 Haemaphysalis spp. belonging to three species (H. punctata, H. sulcata, and H. inermis) were subjected to DNA extraction and tested by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) targeting three rickettsial genes: gltA, ompB, and ompA. Six (3 H. inermis, 2 H. punctata, and 1 H. sulcata) of the 177 specimens were found to be infected (3.4%). The rickettsiae in H. inermis ticks (n = 3) were identified as Rickettsia aeschlimannii by sequencing of the genes coding for gltA, ompB, and ompA. Nucleotide sequences from H. punctata and H. sulcata samples that yielded PCR products (n = 3), showed >99% similarity with sequences of Rickettsia endosymbiont of H. sulcata and 'Candidatus Rickettsia hoogstraalii' for gltA and ompB genes, respectively. Attempts to amplify ompA from these two H. punctata and one H. sulcata failed. This study suggests that H. inermis could be a vector for tick-borne spotted fever caused by R. aeschlimannii in the north of Spain. Further studies on characterization and culture of rickettsial endosymbionts found in Haemaphysalis spp. should be performed.
Methods for inactivation of Toxoplasma gondii cysts in meat and tissues of experimentally infected sheep.	This study utilized infectivity bioassays in cats and mice to assess the efficacy of inactivation of Toxoplasma gondii cysts in experimentally infected sheep meat and tissues subjected to chilling, freezing, heating, microwave cooking, and gamma ray irradiation. Heating at 60 degrees C or 100 degrees C for 10 minutes, freezing at either -10 degrees C for 3 days or -20 degrees C for 2 days, or irradiation at doses of 75 or 100 krad was sufficient to kill tissue cysts. Meanwhile, neither cooking in a microwave nor chilling at 5 degrees C for 5 days was sufficient to kill tissue cysts.
Fasciola hepatica: Histology of the testis in egg-producing adults of several laboratory-maintained isolates of flukes grown to maturity in cattle and sheep and in flukes from naturally infected hosts.	A total of 8 calves approximately 6 months old and 22 lambs of similar age were infected with metacercariae of Fasciola hepatica of various laboratory-maintained isolates including: Cullompton (sensitive to triclabendazole) and Sligo, Oberon and Leon (reported as resistant to triclabendazole). Ten to 16 weeks after infection, flukes were harvested from these experimental animals and the histology of the testis tissue was examined in a representative sample of flukes from each population. Adult wild-type flukes were also collected from 5 chronically infected cattle and 7 chronically infected sheep identified at post-mortem inspection. The testis tissue of these flukes was compared with that of the various laboratory-maintained isolates. Whilst the testes of the wild-type, Oberon and Leon flukes displayed all the usual cell types associated with spermatogenesis in Fasciola hepatica (spermatogonia, spermatocytes, spermatids and mature sperm), the Cullompton flukes from both cattle and sheep showed arrested spermatogenesis, with no stages later than primary spermatocytes represented in the testis profiles. The presence of numerous eosinophilic apoptotic bodies and nuclear fragments suggested that meiotic division was anomalous and incomplete. In contrast to the wild-type flukes, no mature spermatozoa were present in the testes or amongst the shelled eggs in the uterus. A high proportion of the eggs collected from these flukes hatched to release normal-appearing miracidia after an appropriate incubation period, as indeed was the case with all isolates examined and the wild-type flukes. It is concluded that the eggs of Cullompton flukes are capable of development without fertilization, i.e. are parthenogenetic. The implications of this for rapid evolution of resistant clones following an anthelmintic selection event are discussed. Amongst the Sligo flukes examined, two subtypes were recognised, namely, those flukes with all stages of spermatogenesis and mature spermatozoa present in the testes (type 1), and those flukes with all stages of spermatogenesis up to spermatids present, but no maturing spermatozoa in the testes (type 2). Each sheep infected with the Sligo isolate had both type 1 (approximately 60%) and type 2 (approximately 40%) flukes present in the population. Spermatozoa were found amongst the eggs in the uterus in 64% of flukes and this did not necessarily reflect the occurrence of spermatozoa in the testis profiles of particular flukes, suggesting that cross-fertilization had occurred. The apparent disruption of meiosis in the spermatocytes of the Cullompton flukes is consistent with reports that Cullompton flukes are triploid (3n=30), whereas the Sligo and wild-type flukes are diploid (2n=20). In the Sligo flukes the populations are apparently genetically heterogenous, with a proportion of the flukes unable to produce fully formed spermatozoa perhaps because of a failure in spermiogenesis involving elongation of the nucleus during morphogenesis.
Comparison of two worm counting procedures for the enumeration of abomasal and small intestinal nematode parasites of sheep.	A comparison was made between two worm counting procedures in sheep. One involved the washing of the abomasa and first 10m of the small intestine using a 250microm aperture sieve. The other the processing of the abomasa and total length of the small intestine using a 38microm aperture sieve. In the former case, the collection of worms and contents from the small intestine was performed by introducing water into the posterior end and then drawing it between finger and thumb, whereas in the latter instance the intestine was cut open before rinsing and washing. The data demonstrated that processing only the first 10m of the small intestine was likely to result in a serious underestimation of the total numbers of worms present. They also showed that cutting open and rinsing of this organ was unnecessary if it had already been washed out by introducing water into it. The proportions of the total numbers of both 5th and late 4th stage worms recovered using a 250microm aperture sieve were generally high. These ranged from 93 to 100% for all 5th stage worms and between 85 and 100% for late 4th stage larvae of worm genera other than Trichostrongylus where 45.8-61.5% of such larvae were recovered. However, only small proportions of early 4th stage larvae (range 7.7-33.3%) were retained by the use of a 250microm aperture sieve regardless of the parasite genus involved. It is suggested that judicious application of these findings may enable considerable time savings to be made when performing worm counts in sheep.
Effectiveness of clean grazing strategies in controlling Haemonchus contortus infections in sheep in the United Kingdom.	The effectiveness of clean grazing systems for controlling the sheep abomasal parasite Haemonchus contortus under experimental conditions was monitored for a grazing season in ewes and lambs carrying either benzimidazole-susceptible or resistant populations of the parasite. Both preventive and evasive strategies failed to give effective control of H contortus. Lambs grazing with ewes that had received no anthelmintic showed clinical signs of haemonchosis by early July. Lambs from ewes dosed with a benzimidazole (mebendazole) before turn out, developed clinical signs of haemonchosis later in the season. The presence of anthelmintic resistant genotypes had a significant effect on the appearance of clinical signs, and on the epidemiology and control of disease. It was concluded that alternative worm control strategies will be required for the effective control of H contortus in the United Kingdom.
Molecular characterization of Cryptosporidium in Brazilian sheep.	Feces were collected from 125 sheep between January and December 2007, on ten farms in the State of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, and examined for the presence of Cryptosporidium. Ninety samples were collected from lambs 2 to 6 months of age, and 35 were from sheep over 12 months of age. All samples were subjected to molecular analysis by polymerase chain reaction (nested PCR) in two steps of the SSU rRNA. Two samples (1.6%) from the lambs were positive, and after sequencing were identified as Cryptosporidium ubiquitum. This species has been reported worldwide and it is considered a zoonotic pathogen since it has been found and in several animal species and humans. However, because of the low frequency of C. ubiquitum found, the risk for public health in this region may not be high.
Histopathology of the reproductive system of male sheep experimentally infected with Toxoplasma gondii.	The aim of this study was to investigate the histopathological changes in reproductive system (testicles, epididymis, seminal vesicles, and prostate) of small male ruminants after Toxoplasma gondii infection. Eight sheep were inoculated with T. gondii: group I, four sheep (2.0 × 10(5) P-strain oocysts); group II, four sheep (1.0 × 10(6) RH-strain tachyzoites); and group III, two uninfected sheep maintained as control. Infection with T. gondii was confirmed by seroconversion (indirect fluorescent antibody test-IgG) in all the infected animals beginning on post-inoculation day (PID) 7. On PID 70, all the animals were euthanized and tissue samples (testicles, epididymis, seminal vesicles, and prostate) were collected and processed for histological analysis. The main changes detected were a focal mononuclear interstitial inflammatory infiltrate in the prostate and seminal vesicles; diffuse testicular degeneration associated with calcification foci and a multifocal mononuclear interstitial inflammatory infiltrate; and a mononuclear interstitial infiltrate and focal necrotic areas of the muscle fibers surrounding the seminal vesicles. The histopathological findings of this work, along with the detection of T. gondii in the examined parenchyma tissues (immunohistochemistry) and the results obtained by other authors examining different tissues, suggest that histological changes diagnosed in the reproductive system of rams infected with T. gondii are strongly suggestive of toxoplasmatic infection.
A stochastic model accommodating the FAMACHA© system for estimating worm burdens and associated risk factors in sheep naturally infected with Haemonchus contortus.	A previously developed multiple regression algorithm was used as the basis of a stochastic model to simulate worm burdens in sheep naturally infected with Haemonchus contortus over five consecutive Haemonchus seasons (November to January/February) on a farm in the summer rainfall region in South Africa, although only one season is discussed. The algorithm associates haemoglobin levels with worm counts in individual animals. Variables were represented by distributions based on FAMACHA(©) scores and body weights of sheep, and Monte Carlo sampling was used to simulate worm burdens. Under conditions of high disease risk, defined as the sampling event during the worm season with the lowest relative mean haemoglobin level for a class of sheep, the model provided a distribution function for mean class H. contortus burdens and the probability of these occurring. A mean H. contortus burden for ewes (n=130 per sample) of approximately 1000 (range 51-28,768) and 2933 (range 78-44,175) for rams (n=120 per sample) was predicted under these conditions. At the beginning of the worm season when the risk of disease was lowest (i.e. when both classes had their highest estimated mean haemoglobin levels), a mean worm burden of 525 (range 39-4910) for ewes and 651 (range 37-17,260) for rams was predicted. Model indications were that despite being selectively drenched according to FAMACHA(©) evaluation, 72% of the ewes would maintain their mean worm burden below an arbitrarily selected threshold of 1000 even when risk of disease was at its highest. In contrast, far fewer rams (27%) remained below this threshold, especially towards the end of the worm season. The model was most sensitive to changes in haemoglobin value, and thus by extrapolation, the haematocrit, which is used as the gold standard for validating the FAMACHA(©) system. The mean class haemoglobin level at which there was a 50% probability of worm burdens being ≤ 1000 worms was 7.05 g/dl in ewes and 7.92 g/dl in rams.
Comparative histopathology of the lymph nodes, spleen, liver and kidney in experimental ovine trypanosomosis.	The infection of Yankassa rams with three important trypanosome species affecting livestock, namely, Trypanosoma congolense, T. vivax and T. bruceiproduced both acute and chronic fatal conditions. Chronic infections were induced in the three infections by the application of subcurative doses of diaminazene aceturate (Berenil). Pathological changes in the infected animals included splenomegaly and hepatomegaly which were more pronounced in acute than in chronic T. congolense infection. However, these changes were more severe in chronic than in acute T. vivax infection. While splenomegaly was more pronounced in chronic T. bruceiinfection than in acute, hepatomegaly and lymphadenopathy were more severe in acute than in the chronic condition. The increases in size of the spleen, lymph nodes and liver were associated with congestion, increases in cell density related to increased immunological reactions in the spleen and lymph nodes as well as increase in numbers, size and activity of the phagocytic cells in these organs.
Drug-induced apoptosis of Echinococcus granulosus protoscoleces.	Parasitic infection by Echinococcus granulosus in humans induces hydatidosis (echinococcosis), which is a zoonotic disease that seriously endangers public health. This study was to determine the status of cell apoptosis in the protoscoleces of E. granulosus, which were isolated from hydatid cysts in livers or lungs of sheep. Those protoscoleces were incubated with drugs (at the concentration of 1 mmol L(-1) H(2)O(2) and 5 mmol L(-1)dexamethasone) for 8 h, the apoptosis were examined by transmission electron microscopy and TUNEL assay, the expression of caspase-1 and caspase-3 were detected by immunohistochemistry and caspase-3 activity was detected by colorimetric assay. Our results have clearly demonstrated the presence of cell apoptosis in protoscoleces in the absence or presence of drug (H(2)O(2), dexamethasone) treatment, but drug-induced apoptosis rate, caspase-1 and caspase-3 expression levels were higher than no-drug induce and caspase-3 activity were significantly increasing. We found H(2)O(2) and dexamethasone can induce the cell apoptosis of protoscoleces. Our results implied the existence of a CED-3 like apoptosis gene in protoscolces and provide a rationale for further exploring the induction of apoptosis as non-surgical treatment method in treating this parasitic disease.
Associations between trichostrongylid worm egg count and productivity measures in Dorper lambs.	Two flocks of pure bred Dorper lambs were managed separately according to sex (283 ewe lambs and 212 ram lambs) in southern Western Australia. Faecal sample collection, weighing and body condition assessments were performed for each lamb on 2 occasions, specifically pre-weaning (approximately 14 weeks of age) and post-weaning (approximately 9 months of age). Body condition score (BCS) was assessed using a scale of 1 (very thin, emaciated) to 5 (excessively fat). Faecal worm egg counts (WECs) were measured using a modified McMaster technique and larval cultures were performed to identify trichostrongylid nematode genera present. Eye muscle and c-site fat depths were measured using ultrasound at post-weaning. Lambs received an abamectin anthelmintic treatment at weaning (18 weeks of age). Worm egg count data was assessed for normality of data distribution and homogeneity of variance. This data was transformed using log(10)(WEC+25) to stabilise variances between groups prior to statistical analyses and general linear models were used to assess relationships between WEC and productivity measures. Mean WECs were 564 eggs per gram of faeces (EPG) and 514 EPG at pre- and post-weaning in the ewe flock and 552 EPG and 480 EPG at pre- and post-weaning in the ram flock. Teladorsagia (Ostertagia) circumcincta, Trichostrongylus spp. and Oesophagostomum spp. larvae were identified. No lambs with WEC<500 EPG pre-weaning had WEC>1000 EPG post-weaning. Ewe and ram lambs with WEC>1000 EPG at pre-weaning were 42 (12-145 95% CI) and 37 (9-153) times more likely to have WEC>1000 EPG at post-weaning than lambs with WEC 501-1000 EPG at pre-weaning. There were no significant relationships between WEC and live weight in the ram flock, while relationships between WEC and live weight were inconsistent in the ewe lamb flock. There was no relationship between WEC and eye muscle or c-site fat depth. Significant negative relationships between WEC and BCS were identified at pre- and post-weaning for both flocks. Lambs with WEC<500 EPG had 0.19-0.61 higher mean BCS than lambs with WEC>1000 EPG at pre- and post-weaning. In conclusion, high WEC was associated with lower body condition in Dorper lambs, however the relationship between WEC and live weight was inconsistent and there was no effect on eye muscle depth.
Direct anthelmintic effects of Cereus jamacaru (Cactaceae) on trichostrongylid nematodes of sheep: in vivo studies.	Following claims of anthelmintic activity of Cereus jamacaru DC (Cactaceae) by a commercial farmer, in vivo studies were conducted to determine the possible direct anthelmintic effects of the plant on ovine gastrointestinal nematodes. Eighteen sheep were infected with 4000 Haemonchus contortus and 6000 Trichostrongylus colubriformis larvae given in three divided doses over a period of three days. Once the infections were patent, the sheep were allocated to three groups and were drenched once a week for six weeks with fresh blended C. jamacaru plant material at a single (32.3g/sheep) or double dose (64.6g/sheep) or they remained as undrenched controls. Faeces were collected from individual animals on the day of treatment and three days thereafter on a weekly basis for seven weeks for faecal egg count. While there were no statistically significant differences in the egg counts between the groups, a double dose of C. jamacaru was effective in reducing the egg counts in the sheep by 18-65% over the 49 days of the experiment. Given that all animals remained in good health throughout the course of the experiment, with no adverse events occurring during the study, further experiments using higher doses or administering the plant material for a longer period of time than in the present study would be warranted.
In-vitro predatory activity of nematophagous fungi from Costa Rica with potential use for controlling sheep and goat parasitic nematodes.	In tropical and subtropical regions of the world, parasitic diseases are a main cause of losses in livestock productivity. The increased acquired resistence to anthelmintics by gastrointestinal nematodes, requires biological control be considered as a potential feasible and effective alternative. The most effective natural soil enemies of nematodes are nematophagous fungi. In order to collect and identify predator nematophagous fungi (PNF), samples were obtained from 51 farms distributed throughout the seven provinces of Costa Rica. The origin samples included: soil from different crops (potatoes, tomatoes, bananas, ornamental plants, squash and coffee); animal feces (cattle, sheep, goat and horse); soil and fallen leaves from forest; and plants with signs of nematode infection. Each sample was processed using three techniques for the extraction of fungi from soil: sprinkling technique, soil dilution and humidity chamber. Twenty four strains of nematophagous fungi were found in 19 farms; 83.3% of the fungi were isolated by sprinkling technique. The following fungi were identified: Arthrobotrys oligospora (n = 13); Candelabrella musiformis (n = 9); and for the first time there was isolation of A. conoides (n = 1) and A. dactyloides (n = 1) in the country. Moreover, 16 strains from Trichoderma (n=13), Beauveria (n = 1), Clonostachys (n = 1) and Lecanicillium (n = 1) were obtained. In addition, pH of each possible fungal isolation source was measured, and it varied from 5.2 to 9.9, however PNF isolates fell within the range of 5.6 to 7.5. The PNF strains were cultivated in four different media for the production of chhlamydospores: potato dextrose agar (PDA); corn meal agar (CMA); malt extract agar (MEA) and potato carrot agar (PCA). Out of these cultures, 95.8% of the strains formed chlamydospores primarily in the PCA. Of these strains, the profilic spore producers were subjected to ruminant artificial gastrointestinal conditions. A total of 14 fungi were tested, out of which 42.9% survived the digestive analysis. Neither A. conoides nor A. dactyloides were viable following the in vitro gastrointestinal test. The PNF isolated in this study demonstrated an action against ovine and caprine gastrointestinal nematodes and are candidates for use in biological control of these organisms. Among these microorganisms, Candelabrella musiformis appears to be the most promising fungi for use as a biological control agent in Costa Rica.
Gene expression changes in a P-glycoprotein (Tci-pgp-9) putatively associated with ivermectin resistance in Teladorsagia circumcincta.	Anthelmintic resistance in parasitic nematodes of small ruminants is widespread and, in some parts of the world, threatens the sustainability of sheep production. The genetic changes underlying resistance to anthelmintics, particularly ivermectin (IVM), remain to be determined. The majority of studies to date have investigated target site mutations; relatively little attention has been paid to the role of changes in gene expression. In this study, we investigated the expression of putative drug transporter molecules, P-glycoproteins (Pgps), in Teladorsagia circumcincta, the predominant parasitic nematode species of sheep in the UK and the major anthelmintic resistant species. Utilising a degenerate PCR approach, 11 partial Pgp sequences were identified. Constitutive differences in gene expression between an IVM-susceptible (MTci2) and a multidrug-resistant (MTci5) isolate were determined for 10 of the Pgps using the ΔΔCt TaqMan® real-time PCR method. Gene expression differences were particularly marked in one of these genes, namely Tci-pgp-9. In the MTci5 isolate, statistically significant increases in Tci-pgp-9 expression, at the mRNA level, were observed across all life-cycle stages and most notably in eggs (55-fold increase). Comparison of the partial Tci-pgp-9 nucleotide sequences from MTci2 and MTci5 also identified high levels of polymorphism. This work has shown that constitutively increased expression in Tci-pgp-9, coupled with increased sequence polymorphism, could play a role in allowing multidrug-resistant T. circumcincta to survive IVM exposure. The genetic changes underpinning these gene expression changes remain to be elucidated and need to be investigated in other isolates. These changes could form the basis of an IVM resistance marker to monitor the spread of resistance and to evaluate management practices aimed at delaying its spread.
Correlates of resistance to gastrointestinal nematode infection in Nigerian West African dwarf sheep.	To investigate correlates of resistance to GI nematode infection in Nigerian West African dwarf (WAD) sheep.
Molecular characterization of Fasciola hepatica from Sardinia based on sequence analysis of genomic and mitochondrial gene markers.	The aim of the present study is to investigate for the first time the genetic diversity of samples identified morphologically as Fasciola hepatica (Platyhelminthes: Trematoda: Digenea) (n=66) from sheep and cattle from two localities of Sardinia and to compare them with available data from other localities by partial sequences of the first (ITS-1), the 5.8S, and second (ITS-2) Internal Transcribed Spacers (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA (rDNA) genes, the mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COI), and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide dehydrogenase subunit I (ND1) genes. Comparison of the sequences from Sardinia with sequences of Fasciola spp. from GenBank confirmed that all samples belong to the species F. hepatica. The nucleotide sequencing of ITS rDNA showed no nucleotide variation in the ITS-1, 5.8S and ITS-2 rDNA sequences among all Sardinian samples, comparing with two ITS-2 haplotypes in standard F. hepatica, showing a substitution C/T in 20 position 859, reported previously from Tunisia, Algeria, Australia, Uruguay and Spain. The present study shows that in Sardinian sheep and cattle there is the most frequent haplotype (FhITS-H1) of F. hepatica species from South Europe. Considering NDI sequences, the phylogenetic trees showed reliable grouping among the haplotypes of F. hepatica from Sardinia and the mitochondrial lineage I, including the main N1 haplotype, observed previously from Europe (Russia, Belarus, Ukraine and Bulgaria), Armenia, West Africa (Nigeria), America (Uruguay and USA), Asia (Turkey, Japan, and China), Georgia, Turkmenistan, Azerbaijan and Australia. Furthermore, common haplotypes FhCOI-H1 and FhCOI-H2 of F. hepatica from Sardinia also corresponded mostly to the first lineage including the main C1 haplotype reported previously from Eastern European and Western Asian populations, they belonged just to a phylogenically distinguishable clade, as F. hepatica from Australia, France, Turkey, Uruguay, Russia, Armenia, Ukraine, Belarus, Turkmenistan, USA, Tunisia and Algeria, indicating that this is the main haplotype involved in the spread of F. hepatica throughout all continents. 
The feeding behaviour of Psoroptes spp. mites on rabbits and sheep.	A scanning electron microscope (SEM) study of the mouthparts of Psoroptes cuniculi from rabbits and P. ovis from sheep established that they are identical in morphology and are adapted for surface feeding rather than piercing the epidermis. Haemoglobin was found in both P. cuniculi and P. ovis on rabbits but not in P. ovis on sheep and it is concluded that the haemoglobin is derived from small haemorrhages on the surface of inflamed rabbit skin. This inflammation is caused by the deposition of antigenic material on the skin which is abraded by the mite mouthparts. The mites feed on the resulting exudate and on other surface material. An immunofluorescent assay revealed that the 2 mite species are antigenically similar.
Effects of the chitin synthesis inhibitor diflubenzuron on development of Ascaris suum and Haemonchus contortus.	The potential of the chitin synthesis inhibitor diflubenzuron (DFB) to alter the development of the parasitic nematodes (Ascaris suum and Haemonchus contortus was investigated. DFB given orally (10 mg kg-1 per day for 30 days) to sheep inoculated with H. contortus infective larvae did not prevent the establishment of adults or affect fecal egg output. However, there was a significant (greater than 90%) decrease in the number of infective larvae recovered from fecal cultures derived from lambs harboring H. contortus adults that were treated with DFB. DFB did not affect egg hatching. Oral administration (10 mg kg-1 per day for 20 days) of DFB to swine harboring adult A. suum adults had no effect on the adult worm burden or on egg morphology, but eggs removed from worms obtained from DFB-treated swine contained less chitin than eggs removed from untreated control swine. DFB also inhibited chitin synthesis in vitro in the isolated reproductive tract of A. suum adults. These results indicate that DFB at high doses can inhibit the subsequent development of H. contortus larvae in the feces. Since H. contortus larvae lack chitin, DFB may act on these larvae by a mechanism independent of a direct effect on chitin synthesis.
Comparison of the effects of infection with Trichostrongylus colubriformis, T. vitrinus and T. rugatus in merino lambs.	Groups of six worm-free merino lambs were infected with 100,000 larvae of T. colubriformis, T. vitrinus, T. rugatus or a mixture of the three species and were slaughtered 21 days later. Nematodes were distributed predominantly in the first 3 m of the small intestine where they caused subtotal villus atrophy. T. vitrinus caused severe erosion of the epithelium; erosion was less severe with T. colubriformis infections and mild with T. rugatus infections. Plasma concentrations of albumin declined during the experiment and were most marked in sheep infected with T. vitrinus. Plasma phosphate concentrations declined during infection with all three species, while plasma concentrations of globulin and calcium declined only in sheep infected with T. vitrinus. Food intake was reduced in all groups, but was most marked with sheep infected with T. vitrinus. T. vitrinus appeared to be more pathogenic than the other species.
Development and survival of free-living stages of gastrointestinal nematodes of sheep and goats on pasture in the Nigerian derived savanna.	Four grass plots were sequentially contaminated with goat faeces containing known numbers of unembryonated eggs of predominantly Haemonchus contortus and Trichostrongylus spp. between October 1982 and April 1983. Four other plots were similarly contaminated with sheep faeces between February and May 1987. An additional plot was repeatedly contaminated with sheep faeces from February to April 1987. Populations of free-living stages in faeces and of infective larvae (L3) in the herbage were subsequently monitored until the end of April and June of 1983 and 1987 respectively. During February and May 1987 two control cultures of sheep faeces were incubated in the laboratory at 25 degrees C-30 degrees C and at a constant temperature of 50 degrees C and the free-living development was also monitored. L3 developed very readily in the faeces cultured at 25 degrees C-30 degrees C and in those spread on a grass plot in October, at the end of the wet season, but developed less on the plot contaminated in May at the start of the wet season. Worm eggs in faeces deposited on plots during the hot dry season (December to April) or incubated at 50 degrees C died and disintegrated after 24-48 h exposure to the high environmental temperatures. The results indicate that it is unlikely that gastrointestinal nematodes of sheep and goats can develop or survive on open pasture during the dry season in the Nigerian derived savanna zone.
Experimental infection with Sarcocystis medusiformis in sheep.	The development of the parasite was studied in 48 sheep killed between 188 and 1132 days after experimental inoculation with Sarcocystis medusiformis sporocysts from cats. Immature sarcocysts were present at 188 days post inoculation (d.p.i.). At 331 d.p.i. macroscopic sarcocysts with an elongate fusiform appearance were seen in the laryngeal, abdominal and diaphragm musculature. The largest cyst measured 2 mm in length by 0.5 mm in width at 331 d.p.i.; histologically they contained metrocytes at the periphery of the cyst with more densely staining merozoites in the central region. By 443 d.p.i. typical 'thin' cysts 2-3.5 mm in length were seen in the flank and external thoracic muscles. By 765 d.p.i. sarcocysts were 5 mm in length. The ultrastructure of the cyst wall of these cysts resembled that of S. medusiformis. At 1132 d.p.i. sarcocysts measured 4 mm X 0.5 mm.
Fine structure of Sarcocystis arieticanis Heydorn, 1985 in its intermediate and final hosts (sheep and dog).	The developmental stages of S. arieticanis (sheep-dog-cycle) were studied by means of electron microscopy. After oral infection of the sheep with sporocysts two generations of schizonts occur around days 14 and 27 p.i. Both are morphologically more or less similar and are situated immediately inside the cytoplasm of their host cells, which are endothelial cells. They produce somewhat more than 100 merozoites reaching a size of about 6-8 micron X 2.5 micron. The tissue cysts are characterized by hair-like protrusions of the primary cyst wall. These protrusions (reaching a length of 11 micron at the maximum) do not contain fibrils, are folded over and thus running along the surface. These cysts may then appear in light microscopical sections with a smooth cyst wall. The fine structure of the cyst wall was significantly different from the other sheep sarcosporidia. No differences were found in morphology of the cyst merozoites reaching a size of 15 X 2.5 micron. Inside the dog gamogony occurred in the cells of the lamina propria of the lower part of the small intestine. Gamogony was mostly completed after 20 h p.i. and sporogony after 12-14 days p.i. The fine structure of the stages in the final host was similar to that of other Sarcocystis species.
An attempt to produce Ostertagia circumcincta infections in Mongolian gerbils.	Adult infections of Ostertagia circumcincta were successfully established in gerbils, although worm growth was retarded compared with infections in sheep. Chronic administration of beta-methasone to the host enhanced development of the parasite reproductive system but did not increase infection rate or prevent worm rejection. Infection rates achieved with single infections were not increased by using daily or weekly trickle infection regimes with or without prior exsheathment of larvae. Examination of stomachs from infected gerbils demonstrated pathological changes in the pyloric region which was the predilection site for O. circumcincta. This is in contrast to infections in sheep in which the fundic region of the abomasum is the preferred site.
Comparison of cryofixation methods for skin biopsies from sheep infested with Psoroptes ovis (Acari: Psoroptidae).	Two methods of cryofixing skin samples from sheep infested with Psoroptes ovis were compared. In one method the skin biopsy was placed in a capped vial before immersion, while the other allowed direct contact with liquid nitrogen. No statistically significant differences were found between the cryofixation methods with regard to location of P. ovis sections or engaged mouthparts. Direct contact with liquid nitrogen is recommended as the preferred method for cryofixing epidermal feeding ectoparasites on skin samples.
A method for estimating the age of coenuri of Taenia multiceps recovered from the brains of sheep.	The age of coenurus metacestodes from the brains of sheep has been estimated by counting the average number of scolices in each cluster on the coenurus wall and relating it to a calculated regression line derived from an examination of cysts of known age. The method has been applied to 17 natural infections and its value is discussed.
Effect of gamma-irradiation on the survival and development of the infective larvae of the hookworm, Gaigeria pachyscelis.	Irradiation of the infective larvae of Gaigeria pachyscelis Railliet and Henry, 1910 with gamma rays upto 160 Kr had no significant effect on the in vitro survival of these larvae for a period of 49 days, maintained either at room temperature (32.2--39.4 degrees C) or at 4 degrees C. However, the behaviour of the irradiated larvae in the lamb host was much changed, as shown by a marked reduction in the worm establishment and the development of stunted and sterile worms from these larvae. As the level of irradiation increased, there was a corresponding decrease in the subsequent worm establishment. It was found that male larvae are more sensitive to the effects of irradiation than female ones, particularly at higher levels.
The use of gamma-radiation-attenuated larvae of Gaigeria pachyscelis Railliet and Henry, 1910, for vaccination in lambs.	The results of vaccination trial in lambs with gamma-irradiated infective larvae of Gaigeria pachyscelis are described. A single percutaneous (P/C) vaccination of lambs with 2000 infective larvae irradiated at 40 Kr induced the development of resistance. The vaccinated lambs successfully resisted a lethal challenge infection of 5000 non-irradiated larvae 3 months later. In the vaccinated lambs, the manifestations of resistance were shown by marked reduction in the worm establishment, development of retarded and functionally sterile worms and absence of clinical signs of hookworm disease after the challenge infection.
Further observations on the effect of different levels of larval intake on the output of eggs of Ostertagia circumcincta in lambs.	Three groups of lambs were given 50, 250 or 2800 infective larvae of Ostertagia circumcincta per day for a period of six weeks. All groups then received 25,00 larvae per day for a similar period and observations were continued for a further six weeks. Egg output following the initial infection varied directly with the level of larval intake, but fell to a low during the second period of infection and decreased still further in the final six weeks of the observation. The investigation suggests that, provided high levels of residual larval infection on pasture are avoided, there appears to be considerable merit in exposing lambs to a low level of initial infection.
Stimulatory effects of prostaglandin F2 alpha on faecal egg production in Haemonchus contortus infected sheep.	The effect of prostaglandin F2 alpha on the pattern of faecal egg count was tested in 10- to 12-month-old sheep infected with 20,000 Haemonchus contortus larvae. Prostaglandin was infused intravenously 25, 50 and 75 days after infection for four hours at a rate of 5 micrograms/kg/minute and the egg counts in the faeces were determined daily for 110 days. Treatment on days 50 and 75 was followed by a significant rise in egg count lasting 19 and 12 days respectively. This observed rise seems to be related to a resumption of development of arrested larvae induced by prostaglandin treatment, and a hypothesis is proposed to explain its initiation.
Specific identification of strongyle eggs in small samples of sheep faeces.	A method for the specific identification of strongyle eggs in small samples of sheep faeces based on dimensional and biological characteristics is described. More than 90 per cent of the eggs of Ostertagia spp and of Trichostrongylus vitrinus can be positively identified. For other species supporting information from larval cultures may be needed but this need will vary according to the composition of the sample.
Comparison of changes in resistance of Haemonchus contortus eggs following withdrawal of thiabendazole selection.	Two strains of Haemonchus contortus with different levels of thiabendazole resistance were developed from the same parent strains by being subjected to different selection intensities. These two strains were each subdivided into two; one selected by thiabendazole in each generation, the other unselected for four generations. Levels of thiabendazole resistance were monitored in each generation by an in vitro egg hatch technique. During this time the unselected strain with the higher level of resistance maintained an LC50 similar to its selected control. The LC50 of the unselected strain with the lower level of resistance actually increased until at the end of the fourth generation it had an LC50 similar to the thiabendazole selected strains.
Chemoprophylaxis with diamfenetide against experimental infections of Fasciola hepatica in ruminants.	In limited trials against experimentally induced Fasciola hepatica infections, diamfenetide (N,N'-[oxybis(2,1-ethanediyloxy-4,1-phenylene)]bisacetamide) showed potential value for the prevention of acute fascioliasis in sheep and cattle. When given at a dosage of 10 mg/kg of body weight, diamfenetide was 87% effective in preventing establishment of F hepatica infections in sheep that were given the drug daily for 14 days, and was 96% effective in sheep that were given the drug for 21 days. Infective cysts (4 doses of 150 each) were given by capsule at 2-day intervals during the first week of medication. In additional trials, initial single large doses (40 to 100 mg/kg of body weight) given in conjunction with small doses each day (5 to 40 mg/kg), did not augment chemoprophylactic action. Signs of toxicosis attributable to diamfenetide were not observed. The severity of hepatic lesions ascribable to F hepatica correlated well with the degree of fluke control achieved. Small doses of diamfenetide given each day were less effective in calves than in sheep. Nevertheless, when given at dosages of 30 mg/kg daily for 11 days, the drug was 89% effective in preventing the development of F hepatica infections in two calves which were given infective cysts (4 X 100) by capsule at 2-day intervals during the first week of medication. Small doses of diamfenetide given daily were effective in preventing the establishment of F hepatica infections in ruminants.
Psoroptic scabies in bignorn sheep (Ovis canadensis mexicana) in New Mexico.	Prior  to 1978, no  reports were made of scabies lesions or mites recovered from any Mexican bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis mexicana) examined in the San Andres National Wildlife Refuge in southern New Mexico. In 1978, all of five rams harvested by hunters had live mites of the genus Psoroptes and active lesions of scabies in their ears and/or on their bodies. Deaths due to scabies were not documented during this outbreak although aerial helicopter surveys conducted in March, June and September, 1979 recorded less than half the sheep observations of five previous and similarly conducted surveys. After measurement of the length of the outer opisthosomal setae of the male mites, they appear to be Psoroptes ovis (Hering), the common scabies mite of domestic sheep, cattle and horses. Final specific determination must await proposed transmission studies with domestic livestock.
On some factors influencing the output of the larvae of Protostrongylids of sheep in natural infections.	The output of first stage Protostrongylid larvae of sheep was studied in natural infections. Three sets of observations were obtained from October 1977 to December 1978 in three regions. The fauna was characterized by the high prevalence of Muellerius and Neostrongylus. The larval output varied with the species harboured by sheep and with the density of worm populations. Anthelmintic treatments influenced the fecundity of worms. The age of the animals was an important cause of variation in the size of larval output; a rise of the latter was observed in pregnant ewes at the period of lambing. A seasonal variation in output was recorded.
Protozoal causes of reproductive failure in domestic ruminants.	Protozoan parasites are a significant cause of abortion and infertility in domestic ruminants. Toxoplasma gondii, a widespread cause of abortion in sheep and goats, and Sarcocystis spp., which cause a common, frequently asymptomatic infection of domestic ruminants, both have a two-host life cycle. Carnivorous definitive hosts spread the infection through their feces and domestic ruminants are intermediate hosts. A similar, recently recognized protozoa, Neospora sp., has emerged as an important cause of reproductive disease, especially as an abortifacient in dairy cattle. Neospora is presumed to also have a two-host life cycle, although the definitive host(s) has not been identified. The venereally transmitted Tritrichomonas foetus is an important cause of pregnancy loss in naturally bred cattle throughout the world. In the absence of effective methods for vaccination or treatment, control of these parasites is based on management procedures to reduce infection and transmission.
Reduction of Haemonchus contortus infective larvae by three nematophagous fungi in sheep faecal cultures.	The reduction of Haemonchus contortus (L3) infective larvae in sheep faecal cultures caused by the action of three nematophagous fungi conidia was evaluated in vitro. Addition of 20,000 conidia of Monacrosporium eudermatum, Arthrobotrys oligospora and Arthrobotrys robusta per gram of faeces caused a reduction of 95.7%, 98.3% and 10.1%, respectively, compared with the control group. A 97.4% reduction was observed when combined conidia of the three fungi were used. Total reduction of the larval population was observed by addition of the three fungi at 100,000 conidia per gram of faeces.
Pathology of infection with Paramphistomum ichikawai in sheep.	Lambs were given 40,000 or 50,000 metacercariae of Paramphistomum ichikawai by injection into the rumen and necropsied at 21, 42 and 84 days after infection. Pathological changes were observed grossly and confirmed histologically in the small intestine and rumen. The numbers of flukes and their location in the gastrointestinal tract were recorded and the populations of eosinophils, mast cells and globule leucocytes estimated. Changes varied, according to the numbers of flukes present, from a localised enteritis and villous atrophy in the duodenum in light infections to severe destruction of the mucosa extending into most of the jejunum in heavy infections. As the infection progressed changes were characterised by extensive thickening and fibroplasia in the mucosa and submucosa. Severe damage to the mucosa of the rumen was also observed in heavy infections. Heavy infections were associated with increased infiltration with eosinophils. Mast cells were generally depleted and globule leucocytes only appeared after the flukes had left the small intestine. Migration of the flukes from the small intestine was delayed in heavy infections exacerbating the effect of the infection. It is suggested that the presence of 20,000 to 25,000 flukes would result in clinical disease; smaller numbers would cause significant subclinical disease.
Trypanosomosis and reproduction: I. Effect of Trypanosoma vivax infection on the oestrous cycle and fertility in the ewe.	Ten West African Dwarf ewes were inoculated with Trypanosoma vivax and, at varying intervals, treated subcuratively with diminazene aceturate to maintain the infection. Soon after infection all ewes had anoestrus for 40 to 96 days and 5 died by day 110 post infection. Compared to control animals, infected ewes had prolonged low levels of plasma progesterone until recovery or death. However, no gross or histological lesions were detected in the endocrine or reproductive organs. Of the survivors, the 5 that were aparasitaemic subsequently became pregnant and had normal gestations.
Comparison of experimental trypanosomiasis in various breeds of small ruminants in Burkina Faso]	Twenty-four dwarf Djallonké sheep and goats, and 16 Sahelian Fulani sheep and goats, were inoculated with strains of Trypanosoma vivax and Trypanosoma congolense to compare their degree of susceptibility to trypanosomosis. One animal from each breed was used as a control. Anaemia was observed in all inoculated animals. In the group of animals inoculated with T. vivax, 1 Djallonké goat out of 6, 3 Sahelian goats out of 4 and 2 Fulani sheep out of 4 died within the experimental period of 16 weeks. One single Sahelian Fulani sheep out of 4 died among animals inoculated with T. congolense. During a period of 8 weeks, no significant difference was observed between Djallonké and Fulani Sahelian in the decrease of body weight and leucocyte count. Results in this study show a better resistance of Djallonké sheep and goats to infection by T. vivax, whereas there was no significant difference between all sheep and goats inoculated with T. congolense.
Ticks and hemoparasitoses in livestock in Senegal. V. The northern Guinea area]	The authors report the results of a study on ticks and hemoparasitoses among cattle, sheep and goats in the North-Guinean zone. During a period of 15 months, ticks were systematically removed from 40 cattle, 40 sheep and 40 goats in order to assess the population dynamics and to determine more accurately the preferential sites of settlement of the following different species collected from these animals: Amblyomma variegatum, Boophilus geigyi, Hyalomma truncatum, H. marginatum rufipes, Rhipicephalus sulcatus, Rh. senegalensis, Rh. lunulatus. Studies on hemoparasitoses were conducted simultaneously using blood smears and splenectomy. The following species were found in cattle: Anaplasma marginale, Ehrlichia bovis, Trypanosoma vivax, Theileria mutans, Theileria velifera. Infections detected in the small ruminants were Anaplasma ovis, Ehrlichia ovina, Trypanosoma congolense, Theileria ovis. The PCV values of apparently healthy animals as well as the seasonal variations in this haematological parameter were investigated.
Moxidectin against ivermectin-resistant nematodes--a global view.	Macrocyclic lactone endectocides include two chemically distinct compounds moxidectin, a milbemycin, and ivermectin, an avermectin. The significance of the chemical differences between these compounds in relation to nematode resistance remains to be established. Reported studies indicate that moxidectin at the recommended dose rate of 0.2 mg/kg controls identified strains of nematodes, isolated from sheep and goats, with demonstrated resistance to ivermectin. This reflects the significantly greater potency of moxidectin against the 3 genera of nematodes most commonly involved in anthelmintic resistance, Haemonchus, Ostertagia and Trichostrongylus. Moxidectin, in recommended strategic treatment programmes, should reduce the risk of further development of resistance to the macrocylic lactone endectocides.
Helminth burden of slaughter sheep in Upper Bavaria. 1: Species spectrum, infestation extent and infestation intensity]	The helminth fauna of 136 slaughtered sheep (99 lambs < 1 year, and 37 sheep > or = 1 year) from Upper Bavaria, Germany, was examined. In all 2 species of trematodes, 3 species of cestodes and 24 species of nematodes were found. All the animals harboured gastrointestinal nematodes, 9 of them liver flukes, 33 Moniezia spp., 19 Cysticercus tenuicollis, and one sheep Setaria sp. Lungworms were not seen. The most prevalent species were Cooperia curticei (74.3%), Trichuris ovis (69.1%), Ostertagia circumcincta (68.4%), Oesophagostomum venulosum (63.2%) and Chabertia ovina (61.8%). The highest mean wormburden was seen in Cooperia curticei (12471) followed by Trichostrongylus axei (1856), Trichostrongylus colubriformis (1752), Nematodirus filicollis (1551) and Nematodirus battus (1238). In both lambs and older sheep the small intestine harboured the highest wormburden followed by abomasum and large intestine. The total nematode counts were much higher in lambs than in older sheep. The lambs harboured more intestinal nematodes than older sheep but fewer abomasal worms.
Faecal egg counts are representative of digestive-tract strongyle worm burdens in sheep and goats.	The relationship between faecal egg counts and worm burdens in sheep and goats was studied in a large array of environments, from temperate (ewes, lambs or dairy-goats in France) or steppic (ewes in Middle-Atlas of Morocco) to Sahelian (young sheep and goats of Mauritania in West Africa) climates. The studied temperate worm communities were dominated by Teladorsagia and Trichostrongylus sp., and those from steppic areas by Teladorsagia, Marshallagia and Trichostrongylus sp.; Haemonchus contortus was highly predominant in the Sahelian regions. The fertility of worms depended on density (10 to 50% of variance) and presence of H. contortus to a lesser extent. For sheep and goats from several temperate and steppic areas, a good relationship between egg counts and worm burdens was established (r = 0.62). It was ameliorated when the percentage of H. contortus, the most prolific species was incorporated in the model. The predictive value of faecal egg count for assessing worm burden was only of interest for groups of hosts.
Variation between hosts in the developmental success of the free-living stages of trichostrongyle infections of sheep.	Variation between hosts of different ages and genotypes in the developmental success of trichostrongylid parasite eggs from sheep was investigated in two trials. The percentage development to infective third-stage larvae of eggs collected from lambs and adult ewes infected with Ostertagia circumcincta was compared in an indoor trial. In addition, sheep previously bred for either high or low faecal egg count and grazed outdoors on parasite contaminated pasture were sampled; egg development, faecal egg count, generic profile and faecal dry matter were measured. In both trials, development to L3 was significantly lower in eggs derived from adult ewes than from lambs and, in the field trial, from animals selected for low faecal egg count. The observed differences could not be accounted for by variations in faecal egg count, faecal dry matter content nor by differences in the generic composition of worm egg output. Although not shown conclusively, the results are consistent with an immune mechanism influencing the development of free-living stages of gastrointestinal nematodes outside the host. These results have significant implications for our understanding of parasite epidemiology, particularly as it relates to sources of pasture contamination.
Infection of sheep with adult and larval Ostertagia circumcincta: abomasal morphology.	The infection of parasite-naive sheep with approximately 15,000 adult Ostertagia circumcincta via abomasal cannulae resulted in marked changes in the structure and function of the abomasum. The functional changes, which have been characterised previously, included elevated abomasal pH and increased serum concentrations of pepsinogen and gastrin. Eight days after the transplant of adult worms, the abomasa of recipient animals were significantly heavier than those of controls (P < 0.001), the thickness of the fundic mucosa was greater (P < 0.01), there were fewer parietal cells (P < 0.01) and increases in the numbers of mitotic figures and mucus-producing cells. Mucous cell hyperplasia was also evident in the fundic mucosae of sheep receiving a trickle infection of infective, third-stage O. circumcincta larvae and was prominent within nodules associated with larval development. In non-nodular mucosa, there was hyperplasia of mucous cells and changes in the distribution of parietal cells. Decreases in the number of parietal cells at the gland base were offset by increases at a mid-gland level, probably due to chronic hypergastrinaemia, so that, overall, total parietal cell number was unaffected. Mucous cell hyperplasia and the diminution of parietal cell number are seen in a diverse range of disease states and may be mediated by host growth factors such as Transforming growth factor-alpha. Alternatively, the cellular and/or the secretory changes in response to the presence of adult worms are mediated by chemicals that are cytotoxic/inhibitory for parietal cells, and released by the parasites themselves.
Development and survival of infective larvae of nematode parasites of sheep on pasture in a cool tropical environment.	The development and survival of nematode parasites of sheep were studied in a cool tropical environment of the highlands of Ethiopia on 24 plots serially contaminated with Haemonchus contortus, Longistrongylus elongata and Trichostrongylus colubriformis eggs over a period of 2 consecutive years from June 1993 to May 1995. The availability of infective larvae was monitored by monthly pasture sampling and larvae recovery. Infective larvae were recovered from the herbage collected from the plots contaminated in June, July, August, September and October of both years. The longevity of infective larvae varied between two and six weeks when eggs were deposited on pasture in June and October, respectively. During the dry and short rainy season (November through May), eggs failed to develop into L3 stage. It is suggested that the long period (7 to 8 months) of lack of development of trichostrongylid infective larvae on the pasture can be efficiently used in a strategic treatment programme to interrupt transmission of H. contortus, L. elongata and T. colubriformis in sheep in this environment.
Seasonal occurrence of coccidia in a mixed herd of sheep and goats at Nebo, northern province, South Africa.	The seasonal occurrence of coccidial oocysts was determined in a mixed herd of indigenous goats and cross-bred sheep at Nebo, Northern Province, South Africa. The herd of c. 30 sheep was housed with c. 70 goats in 1 camp. Over a period of 14 months, 114 faecal specimens were collected from sheep and 369 from goats and the number of oocysts per gram of faeces (OPG) determined. The mean OPG value for the adult sheep (1187.9) was significantly (p = 0.035) lower than the mean OPG value for the adult goats (7042.9). The highest mean value was recorded in the adult sheep during March 1996 (3044.4) and in adult goats during June 1995 (51568.7).
Morphological variability in Fasciola hepatica eggs in ruminants, rodents and lagomorphs.	The length and width of 1297 Fasciola hepatica eggs shed in cattle hosts, 337 in sheep and 199 in nutria, were measured from several parts of France. The data were compared with those obtained from other studies in Spain, France (where rats were also investigated), Germany and the Netherlands. One way analysis of variance and discriminant analysis were used to assess differences between host origins. The distribution of length and width of eggs were analysed using skewness and kurtosis Fisher coefficients. The eggs recovered from sheep, cattle, rodents and lagomorphs were different in size: the eggs found in rodents (length L x width W in microm: 8592) and lagomorphs (L x W in microm: 9100) were smaller than those found in sheep and cattle (L x W in microm: 10,000). These morphological differences in F. hepatica eggs were host-induced in rats (L x W in microM: 9709 in cattle to 8949 in rats) and rabbits (L x W in microm: 9709 in cattle to 8432 in rabbits). These differences in size of eggs might correspond to their being less able to develop into miracidia in less frequent hosts such as rodents and rabbits.
Morphological and developmental characteristics of Echinococcus granulosus derived from sheep, cattle and camels in Iran.	Echinococcus granulosus is widely distributed throughout Iran, where a variety of animals act as intermediate hosts. In this study, the development and morphological characteristics of E. granulosus of sheep, cattle and camel origin were compared and, overall, the characteristics of larval and adult isolates from sheep and cattle, although similar, showed significant differences from those of the camel isolates, especially with respect to the size of rostellar hooks. Differences in the fertility rates of hydatid cyst in sheep, cattle and camel were recorded as 88%, 19% and 70% respectively. In dogs experimentally infected with the three 'strains' of E. granulosus, the rate of development was more rapid in the camel than in the sheep and cattle 'strain'. In addition, adult E. granulosus derived from the camel demonstrate differences in worm length, segmentation and size, shape, number and arrangement of the genitalia when compared with worms derived from sheep and cattle. The epidemiological significance of these findings is discussed in relation to human hydatid infections in Iran.
Biological control of Haemonchus contortus infective larvae in ovine faeces by administering an oral suspension of Duddingtonia flagrans chlamydospores to sheep.	A single oral dose of an aqueous suspension containing 11,350,000 chlamydospores of a Mexican isolate of Duddingtonia flagrans (FTHO-8) given to sheep, resulted in a maximum reduction of 88% (range 86.7-90.4%) of the population of Haemonchus contortus infective larvae in the faeces. The effect of this treatment continued for 4-5 days after administration of the suspension. The possible use of this treatment as a method of control of ovine haemonchosis is discussed.
The pharmacokinetics and efficacy of long-term low-level and split-dose administration of albendazole through in-feed formulations against ovine and caprine parasitic gastroenteritis.	Two trials were conducted against natural and experimentally induced parasitic gastroenteritis in sheep and goats using an in-feed formulation of albendazole to evaluate its therapeutic and prophylactic efficacy. In the first trial, albendazole was incorporated in feed pellets to deliver an average daily dose of 0.7 mg/kg body weight in order to evaluate its prophylactic efficacy. In the second trial, feed pellets were offered to deliver an average total dose of 8.0 mg/kg body weight in two equal split doses in order to evaluate its curative efficacy. Sustained plasma concentrations of the active compound, albendazole sulphoxide, and its metabolite albendazole sulphone, sufficient to prevent establishment of infection, were achieved when the animals were allowed to feed on medicated pellets for 10 consecutive days. The bioavailability of the metabolites of albendazole following the administration of a therapeutic dose in two split doses of the in-feed formulation was sufficient to remove established adult nematodes. The concentrate feed pellets could be used for self-medicating small ruminants for therapeutic use as well as for prophylaxis based on their strategic use appropriate to the epidemiology of the parasitic disease.
