Donor-dependent developmental competence of oocytes from lambs subjected to repeated hormonal stimulation.	An unpredictability of ovarian response still remains the major problem concerning ovine reproductive programs. The influence of several environmental, genetic, and ovarian cycle effects on oocyte/embryo yield from donor females has been previously reported. The present research has been designed to exclude aforementioned causes of variability, thus to verify embryogenic competence in homogenous groups of animals. For this purpose we used prepubertal ewes kept under identical conditions. Initially, we stimulated three groups of prepubertal ewes at various ages and used a number of gonadotropin treatments to assess differences in oocyte competence between individuals. The results revealed the repeatability of response within individual donor lambs throughout the study. Moreover, once the variability in both oocyte and embryo yield between homogenous groups of donors was revealed alongside the influence of age and type of gonadotropin treatment (P < 0.001), we investigated whether the individual donor effect persisted among genetically similar animals. Therefore, we compared oocyte and subsequent embryo output of sibling lambs derived from the most efficient donor. Here the genetic homogeneity of sisters kept under identical conditions substantially improved the uniformity of either follicular response or embryo production, suggesting that the genotype plays a primary role in establishing follicular recruitment and developmental capability of oocytes. This observation consents to predict the ovarian performance from a single ewe already in early prepuberty (i.e., to qualify the female to breeding programs).
Effects of feeding ergovaline on lamb performance in a heat stress environment.	Lambs exposed to a heat-stressed environment (33 degrees C, 50% relative humidity) were used in three experiments to determine whether ergovaline (EV) is the primary toxin involved in fescue toxicosis. The first study evaluated the effects of feeding diets containing increasing levels of endophyte-infected tall fescue seed (E+) and decreasing levels of endophyte-free tall fescue seed (E-). The second and third study evaluated the response to a diet that contained synthetic EV added to an E- diet and the response to a diet containing endophyte-infected ryegrass seed (R+) with an elevated concentration of EV. In Exp. 1, lambs were fed diets of: 1) 10% E- and 0% E+, 2) 5% E- and 5% E+, or 3) 0% E- and 10% E+. Increasing the percentage of E+ in the diet resulted in a linear decrease (P < 0.01) in feed intake (as-fed basis), skin temperature, thermocirculation index (TCI), and serum prolactin. Body weight gain also decreased (P < 0.06). Respiratory rate and core body temperature were not affected by the 5 or 10% E+ diets. In Exp. 2, lambs were fed diets that contained: 1) 10% E-, 2) 10% E- with synthetic EV added at a level equivalent to the 10% E+ diet, or 3) 10% E+. Feed intake (as-fed basis), body weight gain, and skin temperature did not differ for lambs fed the E- and EV diets. The EV diet elicited a decrease (P < 0.05) in TCI and prolactin compared with the E- diet. The TCI for lambs fed EV did not differ (P > 0.10) from the E+ lambs; however, serum prolactin was lower (P < 0.05) for lambs on the E+ diet than for those fed EV. Core body temperature was not affected (P > 0.10) by feeding EV or E+ fescue seed in Exp. 2. In Exp. 3, lambs were fed diets that contained: 1) 10% E-, 2) 3.24% R+ and 6.76% E-, which added an equivalent amount of EV to E+ diets but reduced concentrations of other ergot alkaloids, or 3) 10% E+. Lambs fed the E+ diet and maintained at 33 degrees C had lowered feed intake (as-fed basis), skin temperature, and TCI compared with lambs fed the E- or R+ diets (P < 0.05). Lambs fed the E+ diet had increased rectal temperatures and lowered serum prolactin compared with lambs on the R+ diet (P < 0.05). Lambs on the R+ diet had a greater rectal temperature and lower serum prolactin than lambs on the E- diet (P < 0.05). These results suggest that EV is a fescue toxin; however, other alkaloids might work synergistically with EV, causing the full expression of fescue toxicosis.
Antral follicle growth and endocrine changes in prepubertal cattle, sheep and goats.	In the growing heifer calve, there is an early post-natal, gonadotrophin driven increase in ovarian antral follicle growth. The endocrine regulation of and reason for this initial stimulation of ovarian follicular development are not fully understood. This initial endocrine activity appears to be later held in check by negative feedback suppression mechanisms until the heifer is of a sufficient body size to initiate oestrous cycles and to reproduce. There is increasing evidence from recent ultrasonographic studies, performed in the same groups of prepubertal heifer calves, that the development of ovarian antral follicles and tubular genitalia occur in parallel. There appear to be two distinct periods of enhanced development of the reproductive organs, from 2 to 14 weeks of age and again from 34 to 60 weeks of age, or just prior to puberty. First ovulation in heifers is preceded by a gradual increase in pulsed LH secretion, which results in enhanced antral follicle development and oestrogen production. It was demonstrated that prepubertal heifers produced recurrent antral follicular waves; maximum sizes and life span of the dominant follicles of waves, as well as periodicity and FSH dependency of wave emergence were similar to those in adult cattle. In does, no Graafian follicles are seen at birth and total follicle numbers increase to 2 months of age, and then decline to 5 months of age. In ewe lambs, studies using transrectal ovarian ultrasonography showed that antral follicle recruitment and growth increased after the first 2 months of age and just before puberty. This bi-phasic pattern of changes in ovarian follicle recruitment and growth is strikingly similar to that in heifer calves, but it contrasts with earlier post-mortem examinations of ovaries in ewe lambs. Unlike in cattle and adult ewes, the rhythmic pattern of follicular wave emergence was not established in pre- and peripubertal ewe lambs. The early increase in antral follicle numbers and size in ewe lambs may be, at least in part, due to changes in FSH release and potency, and enhanced follicle production prior to first ovulation is probably caused by an increase in the frequency of LH pulses.
Retail cut yields of Rambouillet wether lambs fed the beta-adrenergic agonist L644,969.	Twenty Rambouillet wether lambs were given ad libitum access to a diet with (BAA, n = 10) or without (control, n = 10) 1 ppm of the beta-adrenergic agonist L644,969. Lambs were fed to a constant slaughter weight end point of 54.5 kg. Carcasses were fabricated to yield bone-in and boneless cuts that were trimmed progressively to 1.27, .64, .32, and .00 cm of s.c. fat remaining. Addition of BAA did not affect growth traits. Actual and adjusted fat thickness, body wall thickness, and percentage of kidney-pelvic fat did not differ between control and BAA lambs. However, BAA increased longissimus muscle area, longissimus muscle depth, and leg score while decreasing USDA yield grade. The BAA increased carcass conformation scores and decreased flank lean color scores. No other carcass quality measurements were affected by BAA. Addition of BAA did not affect overall carcass yields of bone-in retail cuts. However, BAA increased overall carcass yields of boneless retail cuts regardless of fat trim level. The BAA increased bone-in leg yield. Yield of boneless sirloin, bone-in loin and boneless loin were not affected by BAA. For these cuts, the percentage change from the control was highly dependent on fat trim level. There was no difference in short-cut, shank-off, semiboneless leg yield between control and BAA. Addition of BAA did not affect yield of bone-in rack regardless of fat trim level. However, BAA greatly increased yield of boneless ribeye. The BAA did not affect yield of bone-in or boneless shoulder.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Body growth, carcass composition, and endocrine changes in lambs chronically treated with recombinantly derived insulin-like growth factor-I.	Castrate yearling male sheep were treated for 8 weeks with either 50 micrograms/kg body wt/8 hourly sc insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) (n = 10) or with saline (n = 9). IGF-I treatment increased plasma IGF-I from 235 +/- 17 to 347 +/- 16 ng/ml (P less than 0.001). There was a gradual divergence in body wt (P less than 0.10) between treatment groups. Food intake did not change significantly. The weight of the spleen corrected for body wt increased by 40% (P less than 0.001) and there was a marginal increase in adjusted kidney wt (P less than 0.1). There was no effect of IGF-I on carcass weight or dimensions, or on long bone length, although the weight per unit length of the tibia (P less than 0.05) and femur (P less than 0.10) were increased. There was no effect on wool growth. Plasma IGF binding proteins (IGFBPs) were quantified by ligand blot analysis. In the IGF-I treated group, IGFBP-1 showed a transient increase (P less than 0.05) at day 3 but was similar in both groups at day 55 of treatment. IGFBP-2 was suppressed (P less than 0.05) by day 55 and IGFBP-3 and 4 did not change. Plasma glucose was elevated (P less than 0.05) and plasma insulin was suppressed (P less than 0.01) from 280 +/- 32 pg/ml to 124 +/- 30.4 pg/ml, plasma urea (P less than 0.01) and creatinine (P less than 0.05) were reduced in the IGF-I treated group. The somatogenic effect of IGF-I in this study was minimal suggesting that in the well fed animal with an intact somatotropic axis IGF-I treatment at doses which double plasma IGF-I does not enhance somatic growth performance. However, the marked splenomegaly shows the sensitivity of splenic growth to systemic IGF-I. The suppression of insulin with chronic IGF-I treatment was accompanied by hyperglycaemia--this may explain in part the lack of a significant anabolic response and may limit the utility of IGF-I therapy unless higher doses with insulin-like effects are used.
Level of nutrition and visceral organ protein synthetic capacity and nucleic acid content in sheep.	Thirty-two crossbred wether lambs were assigned to a feed intake level of either ad libitum (ADLIB) for maximum rate of growth or restricted to maintain body weight (MAINT) throughout a 21-d period. At 7-d intervals (d 0.7, 14, and 21), four lambs per treatment were slaughtered to obtain measurements of visceral organ protein synthetic capacity and tissue composition. Protein synthetic capacity was assessed by in vitro [14C]valine incorporation and tissue RNA, DNA, and protein contents. Concentrations of protein and RNA were not significantly affected in most tissues measured. However, for liver, duodenal, and jejunal tissue, DNA concentrations in ADLIB lambs were lower (P less than .05) than in MAINT lambs. Ratios of protein:DNA in most organs were higher (P less than .05) in ADLIB than in MAINT lambs. During the 21-d period, liver and small intestinal protein and RNA mass were higher (P less than .10) in ADLIB than in MAINT lambs, and DNA mass was unaffected. Also during the 21-d period, the average total mass of ruminal protein, RNA, and DNA in ADLIB lambs was higher (P less than .05) than in MAINT lambs. Estimates of valine incorporation and ratios of RNA:protein seemed to reflect protein synthetic capacity of the visceral tissues measured; however, the effect of level of feed intake on these measurements was equivocal. These data suggest that the level of feed intake affected visceral organ mass through changes in cellular hypertrophy.
The effects of replacing Rhodes grass (Chloris gayana) hay with ghaf (Prosopis cineraria) pods on the performance of Omani native sheep.	A feeding trial using various levels of dry pods of ghaf (Prosopis cineraria) was carried out with 28 Omani native male sheep. Individual feed intake and body weight were determined for 50 days to allow assessment of the effects of the feeds on growth, feed intake, feed conversion and carcase measurements. The ripened ghaf pods contained 91% dry matter (DM), 13.5% crude protein (CP), 14.3% crude fibre (CF), 1.3% ether extract (EE) and 5.2% ash (on DM basis). Four levels of ghaf (0, 15%, 30% and 45%) were used with corresponding decreasing proportions of Rhodes grass (RGH) hay. Animals fed rations containing RGH as the sole source of roughage and no ghaf grew faster (135 g/day) and had better feed conversion than those fed various levels of ghaf. Sheep fed 15% ghaf gained reasonably well (90 g/day) and had carcase attributes similar to those fed no ghaf. Sheep fed 30% ghaf still gained weight but those fed 45% ghaf lost weight. Negative effects on growth appeared to occur after 6 weeks of feeding ghaf.
Evaluation of biological control of sheep parasites using Duddingtonia flagrans under commercial farming conditions on the island of Gotland, Sweden.	Field trials, conducted over 3 consecutive years, were aimed at assessing farmer opinions of the practicality and effectiveness of using Duddingtonia flagrans to control nematode parasites in their flocks on the Swedish island of Gotland. These trials were also monitored by intensive parasitological investigation. On Gotland, lambing occurs in spring, and around mid-summer (late June), ewes and lambs are moved to saved pastures due to pasture deterioration caused by dry conditions. Weaned lambs are then returned to original lambing pastures in early autumn for finishing. One farm (B) was used for 2001-2003 and a second farm (N) was also used in 2002 and 2003. On each farm, two flocks (each of 20 ewes + twin lambs) were managed separately, namely: fungus group which received a daily supplement + fungal spores from lambing until the summer move (6 weeks) and: control group which received supplement only. For Farm B, the numbers of lambs that were marketed prior to the end of the grazing season, were 13, 18, 19 for the fungus treatment whereas corresponding numbers for the control treatment were 8, 16 and 11 for years 2001, 2002 and 2003, respectively. Final weights of the remaining lambs at the end of each year were also consistently heavier, and the numbers of lambs retained for finishing during winter were less, on the fungus treatment compared with the control treatment. On Farm N, similar results were recorded, with more lambs marketed earlier in the fungus group (25 and 19) compared with the control (19 and 15) in 2002 and 2003, respectively. The weights of the remaining lambs at the end of the trial in 2003 showed a 4.5 kg weight gain advantage of the fungus group compared to the controls. Tracer tests during autumn 2001 on Farm B, showed that Teladorsagia circumcincta plus Trichostrongylus spp. levels were significantly less on the fungus treatment (P=0.018). The summer/autumn of 2002 was one of the driest on record for Gotland. This resulted in very low levels of infective larval availability. But on both farms, T. circumcincta numbers were less on the fungus than on the control paddocks (P=0.048 on Farm B). In 2003 very low numbers of infective larvae were recorded in the autumn tracers for both treatments on both farms. Both farmer co-operators were encouraged with these results and consider that biological control of nematode parasites in their flocks, using D. flagrans, is of practical value.
Increased body weight via injecting myogenic expression growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH) plasmid DNA into sheep.	The ectopic expression of a sheep growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH) from muscle tissues, using a myogenic plasmid expression vector pM-GHRH, has been shown to result in enhanced animal growth. Animal injected with pM-GHRH alone exhibited a daily weight gain rate of 0.84+/-0.02%/d (p < 0.05), while that of the control animal was only 0.73+/-0.04%/d. A more significant growth enhancement was observed in the group treated with pM-GHRH plus 0.25% bupivacaine. The animal displayed a daily weight gain rate of 0.87+/-0.03%/d (p<0.01). In addition, the group treated by pM-GHRH and bupivacaine had higher levels of growth hormone (GH) in their blood (1.18+/-0.33 ng/mL) compared with the group treated by pM-GHRH vector alone (p < 0.05). Evaluation of body composition by dissection and histochemical analysis indicated a significant increase in bulk with no organomegaly or associated pathology. PCR analysis demonstrated that there was little plasmid residue detected in the pM-GHRH treated sheep.
Estimation in vivo of the body and carcass chemical composition of growing lambs by real-time ultrasonography.	The relationship between ultrasound measurements and empty body and carcass chemical composition was investigated. A 500-V real-time ultrasound with a 7.5-MHz probe combined with image analysis was used to make in vivo measurements to predict the empty body and carcass chemical composition of 31 female lambs of two genotypes, ranging in BW from 18.2 to 48.9 kg. Eleven ultrasound measurements of s.c. fat, muscle, and tissue depth were taken at four different sites (over the 13th thoracic vertebra, between the 3rd and 4th lumbar vertebrae, at the 3rd sternebra of the sternum, and over the 11th rib, 16 cm from the dorsal midline). The single best predictor of empty body fat quantity and energy value was the s.c. fat depth over the 13th thoracic vertebra (r(2) = 0.904 and 0.912; P <0.01, respectively). Body weight was used with ultrasound measurements in multiple regression equations to establish the best independent variables combination for predicting chemical composition. Results showed that BW and two of the three ultrasound measurements (s.c. fat depth over the 13th thoracic vertebra, between the 3rd and 4th lumbar vertebrae, and tissue depth over the 11th rib, 16 cm from the dorsal midline), explained 94.7 to 98.7% (P < 0.01) of the quantity of water and fat and the energy value variation in the empty body and carcass. Body weight per se was the best predictor of the quantity of protein, accounting for 97.5 and 96.8% (P < 0.01) of the variation observed in the empty body and carcass, respectively. The results of this study suggest that BW and some ultrasound measurements combined with image analysis, particularly subcutaneous fat depth over the 13th thoracic vertebra, allow accurate prediction of empty body and carcass chemical composition in lambs.
Effects of three anthelmintic regimes on milk yield of ewes and growth of lambs.	Forty ewes were allocated into one of four groups (n = 10) and were treated with albendazole (ALB) (3.8 mg kg(-1)) before lambing (group A), with ALB before and after lambing (group B), with moxidectin (MXD) (0.2 mg kg(-1)) before lambing (group C) or were untreated controls (group D). Counts of nematode eggs in faeces and coprocultures were carried out during the study, as well as ewes' milk yield measurements and lamb weighings. Pre-treatment mean eggs per gram (epg) counts were 640, 715, 625 and 630 for groups A, B, C and D, respectively (P > 0.05); respective counts 21 days after treatment were 5, 0, 0 and 690 epg, whilst 70 days after treatment they were 380, 145, 40 and 1120 epg. Mean lactation milk yield was 3527.5, 3893.5, 3786.4 and 3285.9 ml for groups A, B, C and D, respectively; no significant difference was evident among the four groups in milk yield collected during the suckling period, although subsequently, group B or C ewes yielded significantly more milk than controls (P < 0.05). Mean birthweight of lambs were 3.56, 3.45, 3.59 and 3.26 kg for groups A, B, C and D, respectively (P = 0.045); subsequently, lambs from treated ewes were significantly heavier than lambs from control animals (P < 0.001). We conclude that anti-parasitic treatment during the last month of pregnancy contributed to an increased birthweight of lambs of treated ewes, whilst the cumulative effect of two doses of ALB or the long persistent efficacy of MXD provided a longer protection of animals against new parasitic infections and contributed to a lactation persistence.
Growth performance of lambs in Phangrang, Vietnam: effects of a dietary supplement containing prickly-pear cactus.	In Phanrang, Vietnam, sheep production is limited by the sparse availability of green roughage. Although prickly-pear cactus (Opuntia elator) is abundant in the area, it is not used. It was considered relevant therefore to test whether prickly-pear cactus could be used a component of feed supplements. With the use of the cactus and other local products--namely groundnut cake, fish sauce by-product, molasses, rice bran and cassava flour--two supplements were prepared. The level of cactus in the two supplements was 670 g/kg product (320 g/kg dry matter). The cactus was burned to remove the spines, chopped and sun-dried before use. The cactus preparation contained only 12 g crude protein/kg (68 g/ kg dry matter). The protein content of the two supplements was raised with either groundnut cake or fish sauce by-product. Sheep that were grazing during the day were offered either no supplement or one of the supplements when confined during the night. During a period of 3 months, non-supplemented control sheep gained 98 +/- 10.5 g/day (mean +/- SD, n=10). Sheep supplemented with cactus and groundnut gained 145 +/- 12.3 g/day, and those given cactus and fish sauce gained 130 +/- 11.7 g/day. It is concluded that prickly-pear cactus has potential as component of feed supplements for sheep.
Effects of supplemental protein source and metabolizable energy intake on nutritional status in pregnant ewes.	Two experiments were conducted to evaluate effects of supplemental protein source and ME intake (Exp. 1) on ewe nutritional status during pregnancy. Forty-two mature Targhee ewes were allotted randomly in Exp. 1 to one of six treatments (n = 7) using a 2 x 3 factorial arrangement. Ewes were individually fed chopped barley straw and supplements containing either urea (U), soybean meal (SBM), or blood meal (BM) plus SBM during the 84-d experiment. Straw and supplement intakes were adjusted to meet either 80 or 100% of ME requirements. In Exp. 2, 30 pregnant Targhee ewes that were allotted randomly to one of three groups (n = 10) were individually fed protein supplements similar to those in Exp. 1 and had group access to long-stem barley straw. In Exp. 1, ewes fed BM + SBM gained more (P less than .05) weight, lost less (P less than .05) body condition, and had increased (P less than .05) wool fiber length compared with ewes fed U; SBM ewes were intermediate (P less than .05) in response. Ewes fed BW + SBM had increased (P less than .05) blood urea N and albumin concentrations compared with ewes fed U. Metabolizable energy intake did not affect (P greater than .05) ewe performance or serum metabolite concentrations. Ewes fed BM + SBM in Exp. 2 gained more (P less than .05) weight than ewes fed either SBM or U, and ewes fed SBM lost less weight (P less than .05) than ewes fed U.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Predicting lean growth while accounting for correlated traits.	Lean tissue growth rate is usually estimated from indirect measurements including growth rate. A procedure to determine prediction equations for lean tissue growth rate is proposed. The procedure restricts the regression of fat growth rate on predicted lean growth rate to be equal to the regression of fat growth rate on actual lean growth rate. The restriction can be phenotypic or genetic if suitable parameter estimates are available. When applied phenotypically, selection on predicted lean tissue growth rate will result in selection differentials for both fat and lean tissue growth rates that are proportional to those obtained by direct selection for lean tissue growth rate. This restriction is desirable because expected correlated changes in fat are used to justify selection for lean tissue growth. Conventional prediction procedures have ignored correlated changes and obscured the original intent of using lean tissue growth rate as a biological selection criterion. When using conventional procedures to predict a biological selection criterion from indirect measurements, changes in important correlated traits may depend more on the choice of indirect measurements than on the choice of selection criterion.
Effects of cimaterol on energetics and carcass characteristics of Suffolk ewe lambs.	The effects of cimaterol, a beta agonist, on basal metabolic rate, heat increment, maintenance requirements and carcass characteristics were determined using six treated and six control Suffolk ewe lambs. The lambs were fed a pelleted diet (18.7% CP, 2.64 Mcal ME/kg) with or without .5 mg cimaterol/kg BW.75 daily for 70 d. Heat production was monitored for 2 d on each animal at three levels of intake by respiration calorimetry. A 7-d total collection digestion trial was conducted on each animal at both high and low levels of intake. Cimaterol-fed lambs gained more (P less than .05) weight (174 vs 107 g/d) and had a higher (P less than .01) gain/feed ratio (151 vs 90 g/kg) than controls. Cimaterol did not affect diet digestibility or methane production. It reduced (P less than .01) urinary N excretion by 12% and improved (P less than .001) N retention by 18%. Cimaterol also increased carcass weight (26.9 vs 22.1 kg), dressing percentage (57.2 vs 53.9), longissimus muscle area (22.5 vs 15.0 cm2) and leg score (14.3 vs 12.2). Heat production was, on the average, elevated 7 to 10% on d 1 to 4 of cimaterol feeding but reverted to control levels by d 10. Cimaterol did not have any long-term thermogenic effects, either expressed as partial efficiency of ME use for growth (.48 vs .49), as maintenance ME requirements (76 vs 75 kcal/kg BW.75) or as fasting heat production (84 vs 80 kcal/kg BW.75) for treated vs control lambs, respectively. Results indicate little long-term thermogenic effect of cimaterol, even though growth rate and protein deposition were increased.
Relations between relative mRNA abundance and developmental competence of ovine oocytes.	The present study was conducted to investigate the relation between in vitro developmental competence and the expression of a panel of developmentally important genes in germinal vesicle (GV) stage oocytes. One-month-old prepubertal and adult sheep oocytes were used as models of low and high quality gametes, respectively. Cumulus-oocyte complexes (COCs) derived from lambs and ewes were in vitro matured and fertilized, and their cleavage rate at 22, 26, and 32 hr post fertilization and the blastocyst yield were observed to assess their developmental potential. In parallel, the relative abundance (RA) of 11 genes was analyzed by semi-quantitative Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) assay in the two groups of oocytes. We observed similar maturation and fertilization rates in the two groups, but a significant lower rate of cleaved prepubertal oocytes (P < 0.05), a general delay in the timing of their first division (P < 0.01), and a lower blastocysts production (P < 0.05). The analysis of gene expression evidenced no difference in the RA of four transcripts [superoxide dismutase (SOD), ubiquitin, beta-actin, cyclin B] in the two classes of oocytes, but a statistically lower RA of seven messenger RNAs (mRNA) [Na(+)K(+)ATPase, p34(cdc2), Glucose-transporter I (Glut-1), Activin, Zona Occludens Protein 2 (PanZO2), Poli(A)Polymerase (PAP), E-Cadherin (E-Cad)] in the prepubertal oocytes compared to the adult ones. The present data show for the first time in the ovine species that the lower developmental competence is associated with deficiencies in the mRNAs storage during the oocyte growth.
Net portal and hepatic flux of nutrients in growing wethers fed high-concentrate diets with oscillating protein concentrations.	We hypothesized that oscillating dietary CP would improve N retention by increasing the uptake of endogenous urea N by portal drained viscera (PDV), compared with static dietary CP regimens. Chronic indwelling catheters were surgically implanted in the abdominal aorta, a mesenteric vein, a hepatic vein, and the portal vein of 18 growing Dorset x Suffolk wethers (44.6 +/- 3.6 kg of BW). Wethers had ad libitum access to the following diets in a completely randomized block design: 1) Low (9.9% CP), 2) Medium (12.5% CP), or 3) Low and High (14.2% CP) diets oscillated on a 48-h interval (Osc). Dry matter intake was greater (P = 0.04) for the Osc diet (1,313 g/d) than the Low diet (987 g/d) and was intermediate for the Medium diet (1,112 g/d). Nitrogen intake was not different between the wethers fed the Osc (25.4 g/d) and Medium diets (22.2 g/d), but was lower (P < 0.01) in wethers fed the Low diet (16.0 g/d). Wethers fed the Osc diet (6.7 g/d) retained more (P < 0.04) N than did those fed the Medium diet (4.0 g/d). Hepatic arterial blood flow was not different (P = 0.81) between wethers fed the Osc (31 L/h) or Medium diet (39 L/h) but was greater (P = 0.05) in wethers fed the Low diet (66 L/h). Net release of alpha-amino N by the PDV did not differ (P = 0.90) between the Low (37.8 mmol/h) and Medium diets (41.5 mmol/h) or between the Osc (53.0 mmol/h) and Medium diets (P = 0.29). Net PDV release of ammonia N was less (P = 0.05) for the Low diet than for the Medium diet, and this was accompanied by a similar decrease (P = 0.04) in hepatic ammonia N uptake. Urea N concentrations tended to be (P = 0.06) less in arterial, portal, and hepatic blood in wethers fed the Low diet compared with those fed the Medium diet. Wethers fed the Osc diet tended (P = 0.06) to have a greater PDV uptake of urea N than did those fed the Medium diet, but there was no difference between the Osc and Medium diets (P = 0.72) in hepatic urea N release. Net PDV uptake of glutamine tended to be greater (P < 0.07) in wethers fed the Low diet (6.7 mmol/h) than those fed the Medium diet (2.7 mmol/h). These data indicate that oscillating dietary protein may improve N retention by increasing endogenous urea N uptake by the gastrointestinal tract.
Concentration of copper, iron, manganese and zinc in muscle, fat and bone tissue of lambs of the breed German Merino Landsheep in the course of the growing period and different feeding intensities.	A growth experiment with 108 lambs (breed German Merino Landsheep) was carried out in order to examine how gender, body weight and feeding intensity affect trace element concentrations in tissues and carcass. The lambs (50% male and 50% female) were fattened at three levels of feeding intensity ('low', 'medium' and 'high' by varying daily amounts of concentrate and hay) and slaughtered at different final body weights (30, 45 or 55 kg). Six male and six female animals were sacrificed at 18 kg live weight at the beginning of the comparative slaughter experiment. The left half carcass of each animal was divided into muscle tissue, fat tissue as well as bones and sinews and analysed for the trace elements copper (Cu), iron (Fe), manganese (Mn) as well as zinc (Zn). The body weight level influenced the Zn concentrations significantly in all tissues. In addition, the Fe concentration in the fat tissue was influenced by the body weight as well as the Cu content in the bone tissue. An influence due to gender could be seen for the Zn concentration in the muscle and fat tissue and for the Fe content in the fat and bone tissue as well as for the Cu concentration in the bones. The feeding intensity affected the Cu content in the muscle and bone tissue and also the Zn content in the muscle tissue. In the present study with lambs at body weight range from 18 to 55 kg on an average, 127 mg Fe, 87 mg Zn, 1.5 mg Cu as well as 1.1 mg Mn per kilogram dry matter were found in the bone tissue. In lamb muscle tissue combined from all parts (body weight range from 18 to 45 kg, both genders) the highest concentrations were for Zn and Fe [3.42 and 1.31 mg/100 g meat (wet weight basis)], while Cu remained far below these levels (0.08 mg/100 g meat and Mn was even below the detection limit of 0.025 mg/kg). Lamb muscle is a valuable source for highly available haem-Fe as well as for Zn and Cu in human nutrition.
Examination of non-genetic factors affecting the growth performance of djallonke sheep in soudanian zone at the Okpara breeding farm of Benin.	A study was carried out at the Okpara breeding farm in Benin. Records on 558 lambs of the Djallonke sheep breed, born from 1997 to 2000, were used to determine the weekly growth curve from birth up to 119 days of age. Non-genetic factors affecting lamb weights at birth and at 30, 60, 90 and 120 days and average daily gains from 0 to 30 days, from 0 to 60 days, from 0 to 90 days and from 0 to 120 days were investigated. A linear model comprising the fixed effects of birth season, birth year, parity number of ewe and sex of lambs was used for analysis of variance by least squares. All fixed effects were significant for weight at 30 and 60 days and average daily gains at 30 days, with the exception of the parity of the ewe for birth weight, weight and average daily gain at 90 days. All fixed effects tended to cancel out for weight and average daily gains by 120 days. Lambs born in the dry season were the heaviest. Single lambs and male lambs were heavier than twins and females. Lambs from ewes of 3rd and 4th parity were heavier, with higher, average daily gains.
Active immunization with a synthetic peptide region of growth hormone: increased lean tissue growth.	The effects of active immunization against a specific peptide region of GH (sequence 134-154) were examined in a species relevant for animal production in vivo. Peptide-immunized lambs exhibited significant increases in carcass protein and water contents and consequently increased carcass weight. The comparatively smaller increases in carcass water and protein contents which occurred in GH-treated lambs were offset by decreased fat accretion. Thus, even though peptide immunization improved lean tissue growth, it did not simply enhance all actions of GH or mimic exogenous hormone administration. This is the first definitive demonstration that endogenously produced antibody may enhance endogenous hormone activity and performance in animals.
The appearance of gluconeogenesis at birth in sheep. Activation of the pathway associated with blood oxygenation.	1. Measurements of pyruvate carboxylase, mitochondrial phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (GTP), hexose bisphosphatase and glucose 6-phosphatase in developing sheep liver showed substantial activities of all enzymes in the foetus, especially towards the end of gestation. Cytosol phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (GTP) in livers of mid-term foetuses was only 10% of the activity at birth. 2. All enzymes except pyruvate carboxylase showed 1.5-2-fold increases after birth. 3. Gluconeogenesis form [14C]actate could not be detected in chronically cannulated sheep foetuses at any developmental stage and was not initiated by the infusion of adrenaline or glucagon. 4. An active pathway of gluconeogenesis was evident in vivo within 2 min after natural birth or within 4 min after Caesarian delivery of term lambs, and was delayed in prematurely delivered lambs until breathing was established and the blood fully oxygenated. 5. It is proposed that oxygen availability initiates gluconeogenesis in the newborn lamb.
The effect of tetrathiomolybdate on growth rate and onset of puberty in ewe-lambs.	The effects of intravenous tetrathiomolybdate (TM) treatment on growth rate and onset of puberty in ewe-lambs were investigated in March-born Sulfolk X Mule Lambs. One group (n = 6, mean weight 13.5 +/- 0.9 kg) was treated with 25 mg tetrathiomolybdate intravenously twice weekly for 34 weeks; the second group (n = 6, mean weight 13.5 +/- 0.9 kg) served as controls. TM treatment significantly depressed liveweight gains in the treated group compared with the controls (97.8 +/- 2.5 g/day versus 114 +/- 4.8 g/day respectively, P less than 0.001). Puberty was attained at a significantly earlier age in the controls compared with the TM-treated lambs (245 +/- 4 days versus 268 +/- 7 days respectively, P less than 0.02). The weights at onset of puberty were similar for both groups. The LH responses of the lambs to exogenous oestradiol injections were not significantly affected by TM treatment although the LH peak heights were lower in the TM-treated groups than in the controls. Mean LH pulse frequency and amplitude were similar in both groups. Tetrathiomolybdate treatment affected copper metabolism by significantly depressing (P less than 0.005) the amount of plasma copper soluble in 10% trichloracetic acid. The results of this study show that intravenous tetrathiomolybdate reduces growth rate in ewe-lambs and delays the onset of puberty, although with little effect on the pattern of LH secretion.
Effect of genetic adjuvants on immune respondance, growth and hormone levels in somatostatin DNA vaccination-induced Hu lambs.	The aim of current study was to evaluate the prospects of adjuvants against DNA vaccination (pES/2SS) encoding somatostatin (SS) and hepatitis B surface antigen fusion gene. A total of 60 female Hu lambs were divided into 6 groups and vaccinated in the context of various adjuvants (and controls): pE-CpG, Escherichia coli DH5alpha DNA, crude liposomes or GM-CSF in combination with the pES/2SS plasmid. Controls included pES/2SS only vaccinated and physiological saline groups. The antibody against SS level in the E. coli DH5alpha DNA group was significantly increased compared to that in the pES/2SS vaccine alone. Vaccination with pES/2SS/pE-CpG or pES/2SS/E. coli DH5alpha resulted in elevated weight gains that were 33.0 and 31.6% higher, respectively, than in saline group and pES/2SS only vaccinated controls. The concentrations of GH and IGF-I in the DNA vaccine groups were remarkably higher than those in the saline group, and those with positive antibody higher than negative antibody. These results suggested that different adjuvant/pES/2SS combinations can enhance the immune effect and had significant positive effects on growth.
Simulation of lean lamb production systems.	A series of simulations were performed to evaluate the effects of mature size (WMA; 60, 70, 80 and 90 kg), slaughter weight (SW; 55, 60 and 65 kg) and three diets fed to feedlot lambs. Rations included a traditional diet (C2L) or placing weaned lambs on alfalfa for either 30 (A30) or 60 (A60) d before placing them on the C2L diet (A30-C2L and A60-C2L). Two lamb pricing schemes were used in the financial analysis of the biological results: sale price based on weight with or without adjustment for carcass fat. Placing lambs on alfalfa pasture increased ownership by 22 d on average compared to C2L. As WMA and SW increased, ownership increased from 3 to 11 d. Across nutritional treatments, fat decreased by 5.8 to 9.0% as WMA increased from 60 and 90 kg. When market lambs were priced on weight, net returns per lamb were greatest for A30-C2L or A60-C2L ($2.34 and $5.21, respectively above C2L) and for greater SW ($4.77 and $7.16 greater for SW 60 and 65 kg than for SW 55). The combination WMA of 90 kg, a SW of 65 kg and nutritional treatment of A60-C2L proved most profitable. However, when sale price was discounted for excessive fat content, the combinations WMA of 60 or 70 with a SW of 65 and A60-C2L were most profitable. The rank correlation between biological efficiency (weight gain/dry matter feed consumption) and net return, when sale price was based on weight, was found to be -.51. This was because lambs slaughtered at lighter weights had high biological efficiencies but low net returns due to a negative price margin. With negative price margins but positive feeding margins, net returns are greatest for heavier, fatter lambs fed longer.
Energy and protected protein supplements to lambs on endophyte-infected tall fescue pasture.	The effect of supplements on intake, digestibility, N retention, ADG and blood and body composition of growing lambs fed cut herbage or grazing KY 31 tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreb.) pastures at two levels of N fertilization (92 and 318 kg/ha) was determined. Supplements were corn (C), corn with soybean meal (U-SBM) and corn with heat-treated SBM (H-SBM). Metabolism trials were run at three growth stages in the 1st yr with 24 lambs. Although all supplements increased total DMI and DM digestibility, they decreased NDF digestibility relative to grass (G), with no difference between supplements; C depressed apparent CP digestibility. Nitrogen retention increased from -2.5 g/d on G to -.4 g/d on C and 3.2 and 4.1 g/d on U-SBM and H-SBM, respectively, for combined periods and N rates. Blood urea N (BUN) concentrations differed (P less than .01) in the following order: G greater than U-SBM greater than H-SBM greater than C. In the 2nd yr, lambs (n = 64) grazed fescue pastures at the same N fertilizer rates and were given the same supplements. Gains were not different (P less than .05) on low-N (LN) and high-N (HN) pastures. Seasonal ADG were 80, 115, 122 and 130 g/d for G, C, U-SBM and H-SBM treatments, respectively, with no difference (P less than .05) between U-SBM and H-SBM. At slaughter, lambs from G had lower dressing percentages (P less than .05) and fat content (P less than .01) than lambs on C, U-SBM and H-SBM treatments, with no differences between supplements. Results indicated a better performance of growing lambs on fescue with both energy and protein supplements. Response to protected vs unprotected protein was small.
The effect of salinomycin on apparent digestibility, indices of rumen fermentation and fattening and slaughter yields of cattle]	The influence of salinomycin (0, 15, 30 and 60 mg per animal and day) on apparent digestibility of artificially dried grass was investigated in four experiments with five wether each. Three long term individual feeding experiments (210 to 252 days) with 72 growing bulls were carried out. The influence of various salinomycin levels (100 to 300 mg per animal and day) were investigated on parameters of rumen fermentation as well as fattening and slaughtering results. Salinomycin decreased insignificantly (P greater than 0.05) the apparent digestibility of organic matter (71.0; 70.1; 68.7 and 68.4%) and crude carbohydrates (71.8; 70.3; 69.2 and 68.5% resp.). The digestibility of other nutrients was not influenced. Supplementation of salinomycin reduced molar concentration of acetate (49 to 115) and butyrate (22 to 82) and increased propionate (110 to 199 mmoles per mol) in rumen liquid. Dry matter intake of bulls declined (0.8%, 13.5 and 24.6; 4.7% of experiments 1 to 3) when salinomycin was added. Daily weight gain (6.5 and 1.0%) and feed efficiency (6.8 and 6.3%) of bulls supplemented with salinomycin were improved in experiments 1 and 3. Significant decrease of feed intake of bulls of experiment 2 affected decline of weight gain probably as consequence of high salinomycin levels. Slaughtering results (except experiment 2) and body composition of bulls were not significantly influenced by salinomycin. Under consideration of own results and some references 10 to 20 mg per kg dry matter or 50 to 150 mg salinomycin per fattening bull and day are recommended as optimal level.
Sweet blue lupin (Lupinus angustifolius L.) seed as a substitute for concentrate mix supplement in the diets of yearling washera rams fed on natural pasture hay as basal diet in Ethiopia.	In the mixed crop-livestock farming system of Ethiopia where crop residues are the major feed resources and concentrate supplement feeds are not common, home-grown legume protein sources can help to minimise the feed problem. A 69-day feeding experiment on sheep was conducted to evaluate the potential of sweet blue lupin (Lupinus angustifolius L.) cultivar Sanabor seed as a substitute for commercial concentrate supplement. Thirty yearling male intact Washera sheep with initial body weight of 21 ± 1.38 kg (mean ± SD) were used. The design was a randomised complete block design with six replications. The five experimental supplement feeds were 453 g concentrate (T1), 342 g concentrate + 74 g lupin seed (T2), 228 g concentrate + 147 g lupin seed (T3), 116 g concentrate + 219 g lupin seed (T4) and 290 g lupin seed (T5) in dry matter basis to supplement around 100 g crude protein per day per animal. There were significant differences (P < 0.05) in total dry matter, crude protein, ash and organic matter intakes among treatments. The average daily body weight gain for T1, T2, T3, T4 and T5 was 91, 79, 79, 87 and 74 g/day, respectively, and this difference was not significant (P > 0.05). It was concluded that blue lupin seed has a potential to substitute the commercial concentrate supplement feed in Ethiopia.
Consumption of a high-salt diet by ewes during pregnancy alters nephrogenesis in 5-month-old offspring.	Maternal nutrition during pregnancy can affect kidney development in the foetus, which may lead to adverse consequences in the mature kidney. It was expected that high-salt intake by pregnant ewes would lead to a reduction in foetal glomerular number but that the ovine kidney would adapt to maintain homoeostasis, in part by increasing the size of each glomerulus. Merino ewes that were fed either a control (1.5% NaCl) or high-salt (10.5% NaCl) diet during pregnancy, as well as their 5-month-old offspring, were subjected to a dietary salt challenge, and glomerular number and size and sodium excretion were measured. The high-salt offspring had 20% fewer glomeruli compared with the control offspring (P < 0.001), but they also had larger glomerular radii compared with the control offspring (P < 0.001). Consequently, the cross-sectional area of glomeruli was 18% larger in the high-salt offspring than in the control offspring (P < 0.05). There was no difference in the daily urinary sodium excretion between the two offspring groups (P > 0.05), although the high-salt offspring produced urine with a higher concentration of sodium. Our results demonstrated that maternal high-salt intake during pregnancy affected foetal nephrogenesis, altering glomerular number at birth. However, the ability to concentrate and excrete salt was not compromised, which indicates that the kidney was able to adapt to the reduction in the number of glomeruli.
Effect of milk replacer and rumen inert fat on growth and reproduction of Malpura ram lambs.	The objective of this study was to assess the effects of milk replacer and rumen inert fat on growth, testicular development, puberty, semen production and sperm motion characteristics of ram lambs reared under intensive management in semi-arid climatic conditions. Seven-day-old male lambs of Malpura breed (n=20) were divided equally into two groups. Up to weaning, the lambs in G1 group (control) were fed concentrate, green khejri (Prosopis cineraria) leaves and cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) hay along with suckling of dams, whereas lambs in G2 group were fed reconstituted milk at 17 g/lamb per day for the 1st week and at 34 g/lamb per day from 2nd week in addition to the feed inputs given in G1. During post weaning, lambs in the G1 group were given control concentrate, whereas in G2 the control concentrate supplemented with 40 g rumen inert fat per kg of feed was offered along with dry pala (Zizyphus nummularia) and ardu (Ailanthus excelsa) leaves. BWs of lambs were recorded weekly up to 6 months of age. Ram lambs of both the groups were trained for semen collection at a weekly interval from the age of 5 months and simultaneously testicular measurements were recorded fortnightly. The feeding of milk replacer and rumen inert fat had positive (P<0.05) effects on BW, testicular length, testicular volume, semen volume, sperm concentration, mass motility, % motility, % rapid, medium or slow motile spermatozoa. However, no significant effect was observed on testicular breadth, scrotal circumference, age of puberty, sperm velocities and other CASA-derived parameters. The results of this study indicate that higher plane of nutrition in the form of milk-replacer feeding during preweaning and rumen inert fat-supplemented feed during the postweaning period to growing ram lambs enhances their growth, testicular development and semen quality.
Ovarian and uterine characteristics and onset of puberty in adolescent offspring: effects of maternal diet and selenium supplementation in sheep.	The aim of this study was to determine the effects of maternal diet with adequate (A) or high (H) selenium (Se) supplementation on ovarian and uterine characteristics, and onset of puberty in adolescent offspring. Sheep were fed a maintenance (M) diet with ASe or HSe levels from breeding to parturition. From Day 50 to parturition, a portion of the ewes from ASe and HSe groups was fed restricted (R, 60% of M) or excess (E, 140% of M) diet. Immediately after birth, lambs were separated from their dams and given artificial colostrum for 20 hours, followed by milk replacer. From Day 57.3 ± 0.6, ewe lambs were fed a pelleted grower diet until Day 116.3 ± 0.6 when they were transitioned to a finisher diet. From Day 99 to 180, serum samples were collected weekly from jugular vein for progesterone analysis to determine onset of puberty. Reproductive tissues were collected on Day 180.1 ± 0.4 of age. Maternal diet or Se supplementation did not affect uterine or ovarian weight and onset of puberty. However, area under the curve for progesterone was greater (P = 0.05) in ASe compared with HSe groups, and was greater in ASeM than HSeM group. In CLs, labeling index (LI; a proportion of proliferating cells) was less (P < 0.04) in HSeM than ASeM group, and in stroma was less (P < 0.05) in R and E groups than M group. Maternal diet did not affect the LI of any follicle types. For all groups combined, LI was the greatest (P < 0.001) in antral, less in early antral and secondary, and the least in atretic follicles. Our results demonstrate that maternal diet influenced ovarian but not uterine characteristics or onset of puberty. These results indicate that maternal plane of nutrition and/or Se supplementation may have specific effects on reproductive function in offspring. 
Effects of residual feed intake classification and method of alfalfa processing on ewe intake and growth.	The objective of this research was to evaluate the effects of residual feed intake (RFI) determined under ad libitum feeding conditions on DMI and performance of yearling ewes fed either chopped or pelleted alfalfa hay. In Exp. 1, 45 ewe-lambs had ad libitum access to a pelleted grower diet for 63 d and individual DMI was determined using an electronic feed delivery system. Residual feed intake values were assigned to each ewe-lamb as a measure of feed efficiency. Sixteen ewe-lambs with the most positive RFI values were classified as high RFI (inefficient) and 16 ewe-lambs with the most negative RFI values were classified as low RFI (efficient). In Exp. 2, half of the ewes from each efficiency group were placed into 1 of 2 pens and provided ad libitum access to either pelleted or chopped alfalfa hay. Individual DMI was again determined using an electronic feed delivery system. Body weight, LM area (LMA), and 12th-rib back fat thickness (BF) were measured at the beginning and end of both experiments. In Exp. 1, DMI by ewe-lambs in the low RFI group was 9% less (P = 0.01) than by ewe-lambs in the high RFI group (2.21 vs. 2.43 kg/d); however, ADG and initial and final BW, LMA, and BF did not differ (P > 0.27) among RFI groups. In Exp. 2, there were no feed processing × RFI group interactions (P > 0.14) for any trait. By design, RFI values were lower (P < 0.01) by yearling ewes in the low than high RFI group (-0.27 vs. 0.27); however, RFI values did not differ (P = 1.0) between yearling ewes fed chopped versus pelleted alfalfa. Dry matter intake was 22% less (P < 0.01) by yearling ewes in the low than high RFI group (2.5 vs. 3.2 kg/d) and 59% less (P < 0.01) by yearling ewes fed chopped versus pelleted alfalfa (2.2 vs. 3.5 kg/d). Initial and final BW, ADG, and G:F did not differ (P > 0.45) between RFI groups but were greater (P < 0.01) by yearling ewes fed pelleted alfalfa compared to chopped alfalfa. Final LMA did not differ (P = 0.77) between RFI groups, but final BF tended to be greater (P = 0.06) for high than low RFI yearling ewes (0.63 vs. 0.57 cm). Final LMA and BF were greater (P < 0.01) by yearling ewes fed pelleted than chopped alfalfa. Low RFI ewes had lower DMI and BF compared to high RFI ewes. Ewe efficiency as determined by RFI was repeatable on subsequent forage based diets; however, differences in intake and efficiency were more apparent when alfalfa was pelleted. 
Pubertal changes in the secretion of gonadotropic hormones, testicular gonadotropic receptors and testicular function in the ram.	Developmental changes in pituitary content and secretory patterns of luteinizing hormone (LH), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and prolactin (PRL), testicular size and steroidogenic function, testicular LH- and FSH-binding activity, and growth of the accessory sex organs were examined for 24 Dorset X Leicester X Suffolk rams (born in March) every 30 days from 30 to 150 days of age, and again at 200 days. Pituitary LH and FSH contents increased between 30 and 60 days of age and remained constant until 150 days, when contents were somewhat greater than on either 120 or 200 days. LH-pulse amplitude and frequency, and mean FSH concentration, were highest at 60 and (or) 90 days of age. Testicular growth increased dramatically between 90 and 150 days of age in association with increases in the number of LH- (100-fold) and FSH- (33-fold) binding sites in the testis and a small increase in blood testosterone concentration (1 ng/ml). During the same period, pituitary content and blood concentration of PRL increased to maximal values, epididymal, vesicular gland and bulbourethral gland weights increased 6-fold, and body weight doubled. Between 150 and 200 days of age, testosterone concentration increased considerably (8 ng/ml), as did LH-pulse frequency and the amount of LH- and FSH- binding in the testis; the reproductive organs continued to grow at a rate faster than that of the body as a whole. Testicular development of ram lambs was accompanied by increases in the secretion of all three pituitary hormones with gonadotropic properties, and in the number of LH and FSH receptors.
Insulin-like growth factor I receptor analysis of satellite cell-derived myotube membranes established from two lines of Targhee rams selected for growth rate.	Ovine-derived fibroblasts were used to validate an insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) membrane-receptor binding assay system. Competitive binding using fibroblasts revealed that half-maximal inhibition of 125I-IGF-I binding by IGF-I was 2.3 nM. SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis analysis of specific protein-associated 125I-IGF-I was consistent with the migration of 125I-IGF-I-labeled Type I IGF receptor alpha-subunits at Mr 133,000 daltons. Further, the efficiency of two cell solubilization methods was examined and time-dependent binding equilibrium was determined for the membrane assay system. Satellite cell-derived myotubes were subsequently isolated from primary satellite cell cultures established from the semimembranosus muscles of high and low efficiency-of-gain (EOG) Targhee rams, and IGF-I receptor dynamics were measured. A membrane competitive binding study revealed that half-maximal inhibition of 125I-IGF-I binding was achieved by 1-ng IGF-I for low, and 10-ng IGF-I for high, EOG myotube membrane preparations. Kd values were similar between the high EOG (4.78 nM) and low EOG (2.95 nM) groups; however, receptor concentrations (Bmax) appeared to differ between groups. High EOG membrane receptor Bmax was 3.88 pmole/micrograms protein (19.87 pmole/micrograms DNA), whereas low EOG membrane receptor Bmax was 1.22 pmole/micrograms protein (9.28 pmole/micrograms DNA). These preliminary findings support the hypothesis that genetic selection for EOG results in altered satellite cell responsiveness to IGF-I.
Growth of fresh-frozen pulmonary allograft conduit in growing lambs.	To investigate the fate of cryopreserved pulmonary conduit allografts, an experimental model was used in lambs. The lambs underwent resection of the pulmonary trunk and valve to the level of the bifurcation of the pulmonary arteries and then were replaced by cryopreserved (CryoLife, Incorporated, Laboratories) pulmonary conduit allografts obtained from lambs of similar size. Lambs were operated on at 4 weeks of age and followed up with cardiac catheterization and cineangiography every 3 months for a period of 18 months. Lambs were electively sacrificed in the following order: two at 1 month, two at 3 months, one at 6 months, two at 12 months, and five at 18 months. To assess the structure of the conduit tissue, sections for light microscopy were obtained from the proximal, midportion, and distal ends of the conduit. While the lambs grew from a weight of 11.7 kg at the time of implant to more than 70 kg at 18 months, the diameter of the pulmonary conduit distended from 16 mm at the time of implant to 17.7, 19.1, 24.9, 34.3, and 33.7 mm at 1, 3, 6, 12, and 18 months, respectively. The length of the conduit also extended from an original inner length of 25 mm and an original outer length of 32 mm to the following dimensions: inner lengths of 27.9, 32.7, 38.8, 43.6, and 45.3 mm, respectively, at 1, 3, 6, 12, and 18 months.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Feed efficiency, growth rates, body composition, milk production and milk composition of Targhee sheep selected for increased weaning weight.	Lactation and growth of three contemporary lines of grade Targhee sheep developed from the same genetic base were characterized by three experiments performed over a period of 2 yr. Two lines (HW and DH) had been selected for 120-d weaning weights for 24 yr prior to beginning these experiments. A third line (C) was a randomly selected control. Year I experiment contrasted 10 DH with 7 C ram lambs fed to 58 kg. Year II experiments utilized 9 C, 14 DH and 10 HW ram lambs and 11 ewes suckling twins from each line. All Year II ram lambs were born and weaned as twins, then fed to 50 kg. Mature DH and HW ewes were heavier (P less than .05) than C ewes (65.2 and 68.8 vs 54.9 kg), and the DH and HW lambs grew faster than C lambs both before (P less than .05) and after weaning (P less than .05). While both DH and HW lambs drank more milk (2,419 and 2,368 vs 2,059 g X d-1 X pair-1; P less than .10) only HW ewes showed a trend towards greater potential milk production than controls (HW = 2,774 vs C = 2,155 g X d-1 X ewe-1 P less than .12). The HW lambs tended to be leaner than C lambs (P less than .05), but DH lambs did not differ from either line. Lambs from DH and HW lines required less post-weaning feed (121.9 and 129.3 vs 152.0 kg P less than .05) and exhibited 17 and 16% greater weight per day of age at 50 kg than controls (P less than .05). The DH line displayed lower feed: gain ratios than controls in both post-weaning trials (6.68 vs 7.30 to 58 kg; 5.83 vs 6.24 at 50 kg; P = .06).
Relationships between growth and productivity of range ewes.	The relationships between various measures of growth and productivity of range sheep were investigated, utilizing records of 1,109 range ewes sired by 269 rams. Body weights and degree of maturity of body weight at birth, weaning, 12 mo, 18 mo, 30 mo and absolute growth rate, absolute maturing rate and relative growth rate over various age intervals were studied relative to their relationship with productivity characters. Measures of ewe productivity were average annual production for the 4-yr period, 2 through 5 yr of age, for grease fleece weight, number of lambs born, number of lambs weaned and weight of lambs weaned. Heritability estimates were .31 +/- .11 for grease fleece weight, .42 +/- .12 for number of lambs born, .08 +/- .10 for number of lambs weaned and .03 +/- .10 for weight of lambs weaned. All production characters had positive phenotypic correlations (.04 to .22) with body weight at all ages. Both number of lambs born and weight of lambs weaned had small positive phenotypic correlations with growth rates over the 12- to 18-mo age interval. The genetic correlations between ewe productivity and weights at different ages were variable, ranging from -.71 between weaning weight and grease fleece weight to values greater than 1.00 for correlations between weight of lambs weaned and weights at birth, weaning and 18-mo. Degree of maturity at 12 mo had positive genetic correlations with all production characters. Estimated genetic correlations between number of lambs born and absolute growth rate, relative growth rate and absolute maturing rate over the 12- to 18-mo age interval were positive.
Natural establishment of thiaminase activity in the alimentary tract of newborn lambs and effects on thiamine status and growth rates.	Thiaminase activity was detected in the faeces of lambs at 2 to 5 days of age. Levels of activity increased for 10 days and then declined over the next 3 to 4 weeks. Decreased erythrocyte transketolase activity indicated thiamine insufficiency in lambs with high thiaminase activity. Mean growth rates were 17% less in lambs with high thiaminase activity than in lambs with zero or low thiaminase activity. Bacillus thiaminolyticus was the only organism isolated which produced thiaminase. Treatment of newborn lambs with intramuscular injections of sulphadoxine did not prevent them from excreting thiaminase in their faeces. It is proposed that oral thiamine supplementation of lambs at 2 to 3 weeks of age may be the most appropriate prevention and treatment for subclinical thiamine deficiency of the cause described.
Urea utilization in growing lambs. 3. Effect of urea and straw on carcass composition]	Subsequent to a growth experiment with intensively fattened lambs the value of the carcasses of 4 animals each from 7 groups was determined. The control groups with mixed fattening feed for lambs and the groups with wheat and barley mixtures containing urea showed higher carcass yields, net gains, fat percentage and padding, dry matter and fat content of the carcass and lower quotas of important cuts as well as a lower crude protein content in the carcass than groups with grain without urea and groups with straw. This is due to the higher weight gains of the first-mentioned groups. There were no significant differences in the carcass characteristics between the animals of the control group and the grain-urea groups. The carcass quality of the male lambs was better than that of the female ones.
Effects of growth rate and compensatory growth on body composition in lambs.	Fifty lambs were used in a comparative slaughter experiment to determine the effects of growth rates and compensatory growth on body composition. The study consisted of a growing and a finishing phase. During the growing phase, lambs (20 to 30 kg) were fed three different concentrate levels (30, 50 or 70%) to gain at three different rates (slow, medium and rapid). The finishing phase was evaluated in two periods (early, 30 to 38 kg; late, 38 to 45 kg). All lambs received 70% concentrate diets during the finishing phase. Groups of five lambs were sacrificed at 20, 30, 38 and 45 kg fleece-free weights for whole-body chemical analysis. At 30 kg live weight, lambs on a rapid growth diet were the fattest (P less than .01) and contained the least protein (P less than .05) in their empty bodies. The slower the lambs gained during the growing phase, the greater (P less than .05) was the response in rate of gain and feed efficiency during both periods of the finishing phase. Compensatory growth occurred in two stages; a greater proportion of protein gain was made early while a greater proportion of the fat gain was made during the late period of the finishing phase.
Evaluation of alfalfa-corn cob associative action. I. Interactions between alfalfa hay and ruminal escape protein on growth of lambs and steers.	Three trials evaluated associative action of alfalfa in ammonia (NH3)-treated corn residue diets and(or) potential ruminal degradable protein X escape protein interactions. In trial 1, 128 crossbred steers (250 kg) were fed 0 or 3% NH3-treated residue diets replaced by 0, 15, 30 or 100% of alfalfa hay. Basal diets were formulated to contain adequate metabolizable and crude protein but were nearly devoid of ruminal degradable protein. Ammonia treatment increased (P less than .02) dry matter (DM) intake of residues. Pooled across residue treatment, intake increased linearly (P less than .01) with increased level of alfalfa. A residue treatment X level of alfalfa interaction (P less than .02) for daily gain resulted because the response to level of alfalfa was linear (P less than .01) for nontreated residues and quadratic (P less than .01) for NH3-treated residues. Similar responses (P less than or equal to .07) were found for efficiency of gain, indicating that addition of 15 or 30% alfalfa promoted greater associative action for combinations involving NH3-treated vs nontreated residues. In an in vitro trial (trial 2) with the same corn cob and alfalfa diets used in trial 1, NH3 treatment increased (P less than .01) in vitro DM disappearance and rate of cell wall digestion of corn cobs. Alfalfa had no effect on rate of nontreated cob cell wall digestion, but increased (P less than .01) the rate for NH3-treated cobs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Evaluation of alfalfa-corn cob associative action. II. Comparative tests of alfalfa hay as a source of ruminal degradable protein.	The effect of ruminal degradable protein source in roughage diets on nutrient digestibility and animal growth was evaluated in two trials using lambs. In trial 1, two qualities of alfalfa and smooth brome hays replaced 0, 15, 30 or 100% of an ammonia (NH3)-treated corn cob negative control diet in a digestion trial using 26 mixed breed wethers (31.8 kg). Fifteen or 30% inclusion of hay increased (P less than .01) dry matter (DM) intake, regardless of hay type or quality. Cell wall intake was highest for 100% high quality brome hay. Positive associative action on digestibility of DM and cell walls occurred with 30% of each hay tested when diets were fed ad libitum. Measured at equal intakes, DM and cell wall digestibilities were affected by forage type X level and forage quality X level interactions (P less than .01), which showed that the magnitude of associative action was greater for 30% of high vs low quality and alfalfa vs brome hay, respectively. Magnitude of associative response on cell wall digestibility was more highly correlated to degradable N (r = .88) than cell solubles (r = .64) content of hay. In trial 2, 72 young growing lambs were allotted to three sources of supplemental ruminal degradable N (NH3, casein, corn steep liquor) superimposed upon two levels of alfalfa hay (0 or 30% of diet DM). Diets containing 0% alfalfa were supplemented with ruminal escape protein equivalent to that supplied by 30% alfalfa hay.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effect of Bulgarian potassium-calcium zeolites on the assimilation of macro- and trace elements in lambs]	Experiments were carried out with 12 test and 6 control male lambs from weaning at 20 days of age up to the 65th day. Both groups were kept under equal conditions. The test lambs were given their basic ration plus 4 per cent of a Bulgarian potassium-calcium zeolite. It was found that the treatment of lambs with a zeolite did not lead to changes in the dry matter content, the fats, and the crude protein in the analyzed fractions: carcass head, viscera, and digestive apparatus. There was, however, an increase in the ash. It was also established that the test lambs deposited higher amounts of Ca, P, Mg, and Zn in the parts referred to. The addition of 4 percent zeolite resulted in the increase of the average daily gain by 19.3 per cent.
Immunoglobulin concentrations in Scottish Blackface lambs on a hill farm.	The serum immunoglobulin concentration in one- to 11-day-old Scottish Blackface lambs born outdoors on a hill farm were very similar to those in Scottish Blackface lambs born indoors on an experimental lowland farm. The concentrations were significantly higher in single lambs than in twins, and in lambs which survived for six months than in lambs which died, and showed significant annual variations which could not be related to the weather. They were significantly correlated with the ages of the dams, the lambs' gains in weight to weaning, but not with the weights or ratios of weights of the lambs and ewes after lambing, nor with the birth-coat types of sexes of the lambs. There were wide variations in the capacities of the abomasums at birth.
Performance, clinical chemistry, and carcass responses of finishing lambs to formulated sometribove (methionyl bovine somatotropin).	Formulated zinc methionyl bST (sometribove, 50, 100, or 150 mg) was administered as a single treatment once every 2 wk or as two equal treatments once/week to evaluate the efficacy of prolonged release delivery of bovine somatotropin (bST) in finishing lambs. Feed conversion during the 6-wk treatment period was improved 9 and 19% in lambs that received treatments once and twice/2 wk, respectively (P < .05), and the responses to differing doses were similar within a dosing frequency (P > .05). Carcass muscle:fat ratio indicators generally were affected in a dose-related manner and were independent of frequency of administration. For example, fat thickness was 17, 30, and 42% lower than control in lambs that received 50, 100, and 150 mg of formulated sometribove/2 wk, respectively (P < .05). Percentages of muscle were higher and of fat were lower with increasing dose of formulated sometribove, but weight of only fat was significantly affected (P < .05). Clinical chemistry indices of metabolic effects of bST (e.g., circulating bST, IGF-I, insulin, glucose, and urinary nitrogen concentrations) were affected in directions similar to those observed with bST administered by daily injection. The results of this study demonstrate the growth performance and carcass composition advantages of a formulation designed to deliver bST over a 2-wk period.
Effects of testosterone on skeletal growth in lambs as assessed by labeling index of chondrocytes in the metacarpal bone growth plate.	The effects of testosterone on the epiphyseal growth plate of metacarpal bones of growing sheep were evaluated in 20 rams, 20 wethers, and 20 wethers receiving subcutaneous testosterone replacement therapy. Two animals from each testosterone treatment group were slaughtered at 14-d intervals from 49 to 133 d, and then at 28-d intervals until 217 d, for a total of 10 slaughter ages. Immediately after slaughter, the cannon bones were dissected of extraneous tissue, weighed, and their lengths measured. Growth plates from the metacarpal bones were isolated and explants were cultured for 24 h in medium containing [3H]thymidine. After autoradiography, labeling index was calculated as the ratio of labeled to total nuclei in the resting and proliferative zones of the growth plate. Testosterone increased (P < .03) weight and length of the metacarpal bone. Increased bone length due to testosterone was associated, in part, with a higher (P < .05) labeling index in chondrocytes of the proliferative zone of the growth plate. Labeling indices in the resting zone chondrocytes of rams were higher near the time of puberty. Accelerated growth followed by cessation of growth occurs concurrently with puberty in males of several species and is accompanied by an increase in the blood concentration of testosterone. Testosterone may mediate this accelerated growth by first increasing bone growth and then depleting the source of stem cells in the cartilage growth plate, the site where growth in length of long bones occurs.
Effects of substituting feather meal for soybean meal on ruminal fiber fermentation and lamb and wool growth.	Our objective was to evaluate the effects of substituting feather meal (FM) for soybean meal (SBM) on ruminal fiber fermentation, lamb gain, blood metabolite profiles, and wool growth. A SBM supplement was formulated, and FM replaced either 33% (33FM), 66% (66FM), or 100% (FMS) of the SBM protein. Four ruminally cannulated wethers were used in a 4 x 4 Latin square design to study in situ ruminal digestion. Wethers were limit-fed barley straw and fed the supplements once daily. Ruminal NH3 N concentrations reflected a sampling time x protein source interaction (P < .01). Within sampling times, ruminal NH3 N concentrations decreased linearly (P < .05) as FM replaced soybean meal. Cubic (0 h; P < .10) and quadratic (24 h; P < .05) responses also were noted for ruminal NH3 N concentration. Substitution of FM for SBM had no effect (P > .10) on rate and extent of straw NDF disappearance. A 56-d feeding trial was conducted using 28 wether lambs (n = 7 per treatment; initial BW 32.3 kg). Wethers were individually fed chopped barley straw and one of the four supplements described previously. Linear increases (P < .05) in BW gain and serum total protein concentration were observed as FM replaced SBM. Wool fiber diameter and sulfur content did not differ (P > .10) among treatments. These data suggest that FM can be substituted for SBM in protein supplements fed to sheep consuming low-quality roughages at a maintenance level of ME intake.
Growth efficiency and digestibility of heated protein fed to growing ruminants.	Four trials were conducted to evaluate digestibility and growth efficiency caused by feeding heat-damaged protein. In Trial 1, 60 lambs (18.6 kg) were fed diets containing corn gluten meal (CGM) at five levels either of control (CGM-C) or heat-damaged (CGM-H), along with urea as the main supplemental N source. Efficiency of protein used for growth was determined by the slope-ratio technique. The heat damage to CGM decreased (P < .001) protein efficiency by 46%. In Trial 2, diets with the three highest CGM levels from Trial 1 were fed to 18 of the same lambs in a digestion trial. True N digestibility (TND) was 108% for CGM-C and was decreased (P < .05) 22% by heat damage. In Trial 3, 90 growing cattle (219 kg) were individually fed one of three protein supplements for 56 d. The protein supplement contained either a control source of dried distillers grains (DDG-C) or a heat-damaged source (DDG-H) at five levels, and a urea treatment was used as a negative control. Protein efficiency of DDG protein determined by the slope-ratio technique was decreased (P < .05) 34% by heat damage. In Trial 4, four yearling heifers (265 kg) were used in a 4 x 4 Latin square design to determine N digestibility of three diets used in Trial 3 (plus a diet not reported herein). True N digestibility averaged 98% for DDG-C and was decreased 7% by heat damage. These data suggest that some of the N in heat-damaged protein was absorbed postruminally but was not used for growth by growing ruminants.
Production of yearling Targhee or Finn-Dorset-Targhee ewes managed as a farm or range flock.	Production data from 681 yearling ewes were evaluated for the effect of ewe breed and management system on fertility, prolificacy, lamb birth weight, lamb survival, lamb weaning weight, ewe fleece weight, and total lamb weight weaned per ewe exposed. Two hundred seven straightbred Targhee (T) and 474 1/4 Finn-1/4 Dorset-1/2 Targhee (FDT) crossbred ewes managed in a range or farm flock system were included in this study. Ewes were born in 1984 through 1987 and lambed the first time as 2-yr-olds. The basic model included main effects of ewe breed and management system. Lamb sex was added to the model for birth and weaning weight analysis. The FDT ewes had higher (P < .05) fertility (95.3 vs 91.3%) and (P < .01) prolificacy (1.93 vs 1.45 lambs) than the T ewes. Targhee ewes had heavier (P < .01) lambs at birth (5.2 vs 4.0 kg) and weaning (26.1 vs 23.4 kg, P < .01) and produced more (P < .01) wool (3.8 vs 3.2 kg). Lamb survival was not different (P > .10) between the breeds or management systems. Although FDT lambs were lighter at weaning, FDT ewes weaned 5.8 kg more (P < .01) total lamb weight per ewe exposed than did the T ewes (34.7 vs 28.9 kg), because FDT weaned more (P < .01) lambs per ewe exposed (1.46 vs 1.09 lambs). Farm flock ewes were more prolific (1.73 vs 1.64 lambs, P < .05) and had heavier lamb birth weight (4.8 vs 4.4 kg, P < .01) than range flock ewes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
High fluorine water to wether sheep maintained in pens. Aluminum chloride as a possible alleviator of fluorosis.	The experiment reported here, gave the following answers to the questions asked (see introduction): a. Water with 30 ppm F gave deleterious effects on wethers. A considerable difference was observed as compared to animals given about 1 ppm F in their water, see Table IV. b. The toxicity was slightly less from bore hole water containing 30 ppm F, as compared to Nairobi tap water with added fluorine to 30 ppm F. The difference in toxicity may be due to the very high content of minerals in the bore hole water, see Table I. c. More fluorine was excreted in faeces when aluminum chloride was added to the diet, as compared to animals which did not receive aluminum chloride. Aluminum chloride had no alleviating effect on fluorosis, but apparently decreased gut absorption of fluorine and also reduced fluorine retention in the bones, se Table VII. Under the conditions of this experiment, toxic levels of fluorine were considerable lower than the quoted safe levels in the literature.
Protein supplementation improves the performance of parasitised sheep fed a straw-based diet.	A study was made of the benefits of protein supplementation for parasitised and non-parasitised lambs. Sixty, 5-month-old crossbred wether lambs were placed in individual pens indoors for 9 weeks. Half of the animals were experimentally dosed with 1500 Haemonchus contortus larvae per head per week and were fed ad libitum and the other half were worm-free, pair-fed controls. Diets were formulated to be iso-energetic (9.0 MJ of calculated metabolisable energy per kg dry matter) with five levels of protein (10, 13, 16, 19 and 22% crude protein). These diets were based on oaten chaff, with barley, cotton-seed meal, urea and mineral mix (except for the 22% crude protein diet which did not contain barley). Dietary crude protein content increased live-weight gain, feed intake, rumen fluid ammonia-N, packed cell volume, eosinophil counts and antibody responses to H. contortus L3 antigen and decreased faecal worm egg counts significantly. Infection did not significantly affect packed cell volume of animals on diets with 16, 19 and 22% crude protein content. We conclude that extra dietary protein can prevent the adverse effects of H. contortus infection on animal production.
A multi-level model of data with repeated measures of the effect of lamb diarrhoea on weight.	Over a 1-year period, data were collected from three flocks of sheep. A total of 213 lambs were examined routinely from birth to 32 kg (2178 examinations in total). Diarrhoea was seen in lambs of all ages but did not appear to make them systemically ill. The effect of diarrhoea on lamb weight was investigated using MLn, a multi-level modeling program. The data were set at three hierarchical levels: level one, the repeated examinations on each lamb; level two, the lamb; and level three, the litter. Age, the quadratic of age, litter size, sex and farm of origin, all had significant effect on the weight of the lambs. There was also significant random variation in examinations within lambs, between individual lambs and between litters of lambs. There was a reduction in absolute weight of lambs for each week until four weeks after an episode of diarrhoea.
