Establishment of an immortalized fetal intrapulmonary artery endothelial cell line.	The investigation of fetal pulmonary endothelial cell gene expression and function has been limited by the requirement for primary cells. In an effort to establish an immortalized cell line, ovine fetal pulmonary artery endothelial cells (PAECs; passage 5) were permanently transfected with the E6 and E7 open reading frames of human papillomavirus type 16, and phenotypes related to nitric oxide (NO) production were evaluated up to passage 28. Acetylated low-density lipoprotein uptake, endothelial NO synthase (eNOS) expression, and proliferation rates were unaltered by immortalization. Acetylcholine-stimulated eNOS activity was 218-255% above basal levels in immortalized cells, and this was comparable to the 250% increase seen in primary PAECs (passage 6). eNOS was also acutely activated by estradiol to levels 197-309% above basal, paralleling the stimulation obtained in primary cells. In addition, the expression of estrogen receptor-alpha, which has recently been shown to mediate the acute response in primary PAECs, was conserved. Thus fetal PAECs transfected with E6 and E7 show no signs of senescence with passage, and mechanisms of NO production, including those mediated by estradiol, are conserved. Immortalized PAECs will provide an excellent model for further studies of eNOS gene expression and function in fetal pulmonary endothelium.
New models to investigate mechanisms of disease genesis from primitive BCR-ABL(+) hematopoietic cells.	Three years ago we described a novel autocrine IL-3/G-CSF mechanism active in the leukemic CD34(+) cells from chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) patients in chronic phase (PNAS 96: 12804-12809, [1999]). We also showed that exposure of the most primitive CD34(+) cells from normal human bone marrow to excess IL-3 stimulates not only the division of these cells but also their differentiation. In contrast, both IL-3 and G-CSF cause an expansion of the more mature types of normal CD34(+) progenitors. These findings suggested that the autocrine IL-3/G-CSF mechanism active in CML stem cells can compromise their self-renewal in spite of increasing their proliferative activity, which, in turn, might explain the paradoxically slow rate of expansion of this compartment over time in patients with latent disease. To investigate this hypothesis, we have begun to characterize the numbers and types of cells generated from chronic phase CML patients' cells transplanted into adult immunodeficient mice or fetal sheep, and also from transplants of primitive murine and human hematopoietic cells transduced with a retroviral BCR-ABL vector. Our findings to date using these models reinforce the importance of the autocrine IL-3/G-CSF mechanism in the development of CML. BCR-ABL appears to directly activate IL-3 and G-CSF production in primitive hematopoietic cells and this is important to their transplantable leukemogenic activity. However, the development in vivo of an overt leukemia from primitive BCR-ABL(+) hematopoietic cells can be very delayed. These models thus offer new opportunities for analyzing the molecular events that underlie the pathogenesis of human CML and the future testing of new therapeutic approaches.
The fetal llama versus the fetal sheep: different strategies to withstand hypoxia.	The pregnant llama (Lama glama) has walked for millions of years through the thin oxygen trail of the Andean altiplano. We hypothesize that a pool of genes has been selected in the llama that express efficient mechanisms to withstand this low-oxygen milieu. The llama fetus responds to acute hypoxia with an intense peripheral vasoconstriction that is not affected by bilateral section of the carotid sinus nerves. Moreover, the increase in fetal plasma concentrations of vasoconstrictor hormones, such as catecholamines, neuropeptide Y, and vasopressin, is much greater in the llama than in the sheep fetus. Furthermore, treatment of fetal llamas with an alpha-adrenergic antagonist abolished the peripheral vasoconstriction and resulted in fetal cardiovascular collapse and death during acute hypoxia, suggesting an indispensable upregulation of alpha-adrenergic mechanisms in this high altitude species. Local endothelial factors such as nitric oxide (NO) also play a key role in the regulation of fetal adrenal blood flow and in the adrenal secretion of catecholamines and cortisol. Interestingly, in contrast to the human or sheep fetus, the llama fetus showed a small increase in brain blood flow during acute hypoxia, with no increase in oxygen extraction across the brain, and thereby a decrease in brain oxygen consumption. These results suggest that the llama fetus responds to acute hypoxia with hypometabolism. How this reduction in metabolism is produced and how the cells are preserved during this condition remain to be elucidated.
Contribution of the fetal baroreceptor reflex to the low frequency component of fetal heart rate fluctuations.	The objective of this study was to examine whether the fetal baroreceptor reflex contributed to the low frequency component (LF: 0.025-0.125 cycles/beat) of fetal heart rate fluctuations.
Rapidly polymerizing hydrogel prevents balloon dislodgement in a model of fetal tracheal occlusion.	This study examined whether an injectable hydrogel could buttress the balloon used in fetal tracheal occlusion, thus preventing its displacement.
Ontogeny and nutritional manipulation of the hepatic prolactin-growth hormone-insulin-like growth factor axis in the ovine fetus and in neonate and juvenile sheep.	The somatotrophic axis is the main endocrine system regulating postnatal growth; however, prenatal growth is independent of growth hormone (GH). Fetal development relies on the coordinated actions of a range of hormones, including insulin-like growth factors (IGF), and prolactin (PRL), in the control of differentiation, growth and maturation. In the sheep the abundance peaks for liver IGF-II and PRL receptors occur during late gestation while that for IGF-I receptor occurs at birth. All receptors, with the exception of GH receptor subsequently decrease by age 6 months. It has been proposed that maternal undernutrition during gestation regulates the maturation of the fetal hypothalmic-pituitary-adrenal axis and endocrine sensitivity. Critically, the timing of the nutritional insult may affect the magnitude of reprogramming. Maternal malnutrition during early to mid-gestation (3.2-3.8 MJ/d (60% total metabolisable energy requirements) v. 8.7-9.9 MJ/d (150% total metabolisable energy requirements) between 28 and 80 d of gestation) had no effect on body or liver weight. Nutrient-restricted (NR) fetuses sampled at 80 d (mid-gestation) showed up-regulation of hepatic PRL receptor, but following refeeding the normal gestational rise in PRL and GH receptors did not occur. Hepatic IGF-II receptor was down regulated in NR fetuses at both mid- and late gestation. Conversely, 6-month-old offspring showed no difference in the abundance of either GH receptor or PRL receptor, while IGF-II mRNA was increased. Offspring of ewes malnourished during late gestation (9.1 MJ/d (60% total metabolisable energy requirements) v. 12.7 MJ/d (100% total metabolisable energy requirements) from 110 d of gestation to term) showed reduced abundance of hepatic GH and PRL receptor mRNA. In conclusion, maternal undernutrition during the various stages of gestation reprogrammed the PRL-GH-IGF axis. Nutritional regulation of cytokine receptors may contribute to altered liver function following the onset of GH-dependent growth, which may be important in regulating endocrine adaptations during subsequent periods of nutritional deprivation.
Allopregnanolone in the brain and blood after disruption of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis in fetal sheep.	Neuroactive steroids may be synthesised in the brain either de novo from cholesterol or from blood-borne precursors. Concentrations of a GABAA receptor agonist, allopregnanolone, in the fetal brain exceed those in the circulation, and are markedly higher than adult brain concentrations. We used fetal hypophysectomy or adrenalectomy to elucidate the contribution of hypothalamic-pituitary factors and adrenal steroid secretion to the overall neuroactive steroid level in both the fetal brain and the fetal circulation. Hypophysectomy or adrenalectomy was performed between 108 and 112 days of gestation (term approximately 147 days) and fetal tissues were collected at 140 days of gestation. Immunoreactive (ir) ACTH and cortisol in the plasma were significantly reduced after hypophysectomy, whereas adrenalectomy led to increased irACTH but significantly decreased cortisol concentrations, as expected. Brain concentrations of allopregnanolone, progesterone and pregnenolone did not change significantly in fetuses that underwent either hypophysectomy or adrenalectomy; however, concentrations in the plasma and content in the adrenal gland were decreased. Expression of cytochrome P450 scc and 5alpha-reductase type II (5alphaRII) in the brain, measured by western immunoblotting, did not change after either hypophysectomy or adrenalectomy but, after hypophysectomy, expression of P450 scc in the adrenal gland was significantly decreased and that of 5alphaRII remained unchanged. These findings suggest that the regulation of the neuroactive steroid content in the fetal brain is independent of adrenal steroidogenesis and hypothalamic-pituitary factors. Furthermore, the absence of a change in enzyme expression in the brain suggests that the control of the expression of these enzymes is independent of hypothalamic-pituitary factors. Thus local control mechanisms within the brain may be responsible for maintaining the high neurosteroid content present during fetal life, as these mechanisms are independent of adrenal steroid production.
Comparison of different vitrification protocols on viability after transfer of ovine blastocysts in vitro produced and in vivo derived.	We compare different vitrification protocols on the pregnancy and lambing rate of in vitro produced (IVP) and in vivo derived (IVD) ovine embryos. Ovine blastocysts were produced by in vitro maturation, fertilization and culture of oocytes collected from slaughtered ewes or superovulated and inseminated animals. Embryos were cryopreserved after exposure at room temperature either for 5 min in 10% glycerol (G), then for 5 min in 10% G + 20% ethylene glycol (EG), then for 30 s in 25% G + 25% EG (glycerol group), or for 3 min in 10% EG + 10% dimethyl sulphoxide (DMSO), then for 30s in 20% EG + 20% DMSO + 0.3 M sucrose (DMSO group). One group of in vitro produced embryos was cryopreserved similarly to the DMSO group, but with 0.75 M sucrose added to the vitrification solution (DMSO 0.75 group). Glycerol group embryos were then loaded into French straws or open pulled Straws (OPS) while the DMSO group embryos were all loaded into OPS and directly plunged into liquid nitrogen. Embryos were warmed with either a one step or three step process. In the one step process, embryos were placed in 0.5 M sucrose. The three-step process was a serial dilution in 0.5, 0.25 and 0.125 M sucrose. The embryos of DMSO 0.75 group were warmed directly by plunging them into tissue culture medium-199 (TCM-199) + 20% foetal bovine serum (FBS) in the absence of sucrose (direct dilution). Following these manipulations, the embryos were transferred in pairs into synchronised recipient ewes and allowed to go to term. The pregnancy and the lambing rate within each group of IVP and IVD embryos indicated that there was no statistical difference among the vitrification protocols.
The fetal sheep: a unique model system for assessing the full differentiative potential of human stem cells.	The naturally occurring stem cell migratory patterns, the availability of expanding homing and engraftment sites, and the presence of tissue/organ-specific signals in the developing mammalian fetus provide the ideal setting for stem cells to exhibit their full biological potential. These characteristics combined with the relative immunological naivete of the early gestational age fetus that permits the engraftment and long-term persistence of allogeneic and xenogeneic donor stem cells make it possible to use the developing fetus to assess the in vivo potential of a variety of stem cells. We have taken advantage of these permissive characteristics of the fetus to develop a large animal model of human hematopoiesis in sheep that permits not only the long-term engraftment of human hematopoietic stem cell/progenitor cells and their differentiation into the full range of lymphohematopoietic elements, but also the relatively robust expression of their potential to contribute to the formation of non-hematopoietic tissues.
The protein composition of sheep foetal fluids.	Amniotic fluid contains several proteins including alpha-foetoprotein derived from the foetal plasma, but lacks the higher molecular weight alpha2- and gamma-globulins. The protein composition of the fluid, like that of the serum, remains unchanged after the first month of gestation, and is buffered from the influence of the allantoic fluid by the amnion. Allantoic fluid contains a significantly higher concentration and a greater variety of proteins; it is not a simple transudate of either foetal or maternal plasma, and though containing proteins derived from both sources, it is deficient in albumin but relatively abundant in gamma-globulins. The latter comprises gamma-foetoprotein and mature type IgG. It is believed that maternal IgG may reach the allantoic sac in appreciable amount, but its transmission to the amniotic sac and thence to the foetus may be prevented by the impermeability of the amnion.
GnRH neurons in the fetal lamb hypothalamus are similar in males and females.	The critical period for sexual differentiation of the brain of the developing lamb occurs before birth. Exposure to steroids during this sensitive period in midgestation alters the control of GnRH secretion after birth. The present study examined neurons immunolabeled for GnRH in male and female lambs during the critical period for sexual differentiation to determine if these neurons are sexually dimorphic. Neuron number, anatomical distribution, and the number of neuronal processes of GnRH-containing neurons from midgestation (85 days) male and female fetuses were compared (n = 5 each). Immunoreactive cells were labelled using LR-1 as the primary antiserum, followed by a biotinylated secondary antibody and the formation of an avidin-biotin-horseradish peroxidase (HRP) complex. The HRP was visualized histochemically using diaminobenzidine as the chromagen. GnRH neurons were localized in 60 microns coronal sections from the area of the diagonal band of Broca to the rostral mammillary bodies. The neurons were classified as unipolar, bipolar, or multipolar, according to the number of neuronal processes. The number of neuronal processes, the pattern of distribution, and the estimated total number of GnRH neurons in male and female fetuses was similar (p greater than 0.05). Furthermore, these parameters were equivalent to those reported for the adult female. These data indicate the GnRH neurosecretory system matures prior to midgestation in the sheep, and in a similar manner in males and females.
Chronic hypoxia alters vasoconstrictive responses of femoral artery in the fetal sheep.	The purpose of this study was to determine if mild hypoxia alters the responsiveness to vasoactive agents in the renal and the femoral arteries in the fetal sheep. Ten pregnant sheep were operated under halothane anesthesia at 116 to 124 days' gestation. A maternal tracheal catheter was placed for infusing compressed air (control group, n=5) or nitrogen (hypoxia group, n=5) starting on post operative day 6 and maintained for 5 days. Femoral and renal arteries were harvested from the fetus to study the constriction response to phenylephrine (PE 10(-9) to 10(-5)mol/L). To determine the involvement of nitric oxide as a modulator of vessel constriction, N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) was used at a concentration of 10 -4 mol/L in parallel chambers. In the hypoxia group, maternal PaO2 significantly decreased from a base-line of 110.4+/-1.4 to 80.5+/-1.6 (mmHg, p<0.01), fetal PaO2 significantly decreased from a baseline of 20.9+/-0.3 to 15.5+/-0.1 (mmHg, p<0.01). Hypoxia was associated with a significant increase in PE maximal response in the absence (184.5+/-6.6 vs. 146.2+/-4.3) and presence (166.9+/-6.3 vs. 145.0+/-4.5) of L-NAME, and a decrease in EC50 in the absence (6.0+/-1.1 vs. 27.0+/-4.1) of L-NAME of femoral arteries. However, there were no significant differences in PE maximal response and EC50 in the absence and presence of L-NAME of renal arteries. We concluded that mild chronic hypoxia seems to increase the fetal femoral artery response to PE, but not in the fetal renal artery. This observation is consistent with a redistribution of cardiac output away from the carcass.
Hand-made cloning approach: potentials and limitations.	Two major drawbacks hamper the advancement of somatic cell nuclear transfer in domestic animals. The first is a biological problem that has been studied extensively by many scientists and from many viewpoints, including the cell, molecular and developmental biology, morphology, biochemistry and tissue culture. The second is a technical problem that may be responsible for 50% or more of quantitative and/or qualitative failures of routine cloning experiments and is partially the result of the demanding and complicated procedure. However, even the relatively rare documented efforts focusing on technique are usually restricted to details and accept the principles of the micromanipulator-based approach, with its inherent limitations. Over the past decade, a small alternative group of procedures, called hand-made cloning (HMC), has emerged that has the common feature of removal of the zona pellucida prior to enucleation and fusion, resulting in a limited (or no) requirement for micromanipulators. The benefits of HMC are low equipment costs, a simple and rapid procedure and an in vitro efficiency comparable with or higher than that of traditional nuclear transfer. Embryos created by the zona-free techniques can be cryopreserved and, although data are still sparse, are capable of establishing pregnancies and resulting in the birth of calves. Hand-made cloning may also open the way to partial or full automation of somatic cell nuclear transfer. Consequently, the zona- and micromanipulator-free approach may become a useful alternative to traditional cloning, either in special situations or generally for the standardisation and widespread application of somatic cell nuclear transfer.
Effect of hypobaric hypoxia on lamb intrauterine growth: comparison between high- and low-altitude native ewes.	The present studies assessed the effect of hypobaric hypoxia on fetal lamb growth in high-altitude (HA) and low-altitude (LA) native ewes. Growth patterns of fetal biparietal diameter (BPD), abdominal diameter (AD) and thorax height (TH) were described by consecutive ultrasound measurements throughout the entire pregnancy. Three groups of animals were used: (1) pregnant LA ewes kept at LA (control; 'LL' group); (2) pregnant LA ewes moved to HA immediately after confirmation of pregnancy ('LH' group); and (3) pregnant HA ewes kept at HA throughout the entire pregnancy ('HH' group). The slope of the BPD curve was higher in LL fetuses followed by that in LH fetuses. During the last month of pregnancy, TH was higher in LH and HH fetuses, whereas AD was higher in LL than in LH fetuses. The length of gestation was longer in HH ewes (153.2 +/- 4.3 days) than in LH and LL ewes (146.0 +/- 5.5 and 145.0 +/- 3.0 days, respectively). Bodyweight at birth was higher for LL newborns (4.2 +/- 0.3 kg) than for LH and HH newborns (3.0 +/- 0.5 and 3.2 +/- 0.8 kg, respectively), whereas placental weight was higher in the HH group (396 +/- 80 g) than in the LH (303 +/- 64 g) and LL (280 +/- 40 g) groups. In conclusion, an HA environment modifies fetal growth and pregnancy outcome with the magnitude of effects depending on the time of residence at HA.
Effect of inclusion of serum and granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor on secretion of interferon-tau during the in vitro culture of ovine embryos.	In each of three experiments, in vitro-matured and -fertilised zygotes were cultured to Day 7 post insemination in synthetic oviductal fluid (SOF). In Experiment 1, zygotes were cultured in groups in either SOF plus albumin (SOFA) or serum (SOFS) and then blastocysts were cultured individually for a further 24 h without a change of media. In Experiment 2, zygotes were cultured in groups using a 2 x 2 factorial design in SOFA or SOFS, with or without recombinant ovine granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF; 5 ng mL(-1)). Blastocysts were then cultured individually using a split-plot design in SOFA or SOFS with or without GM-CSF. In Experiment 3, zygotes were cultured in SOFA in which GM-CSF was absent (A) or present (P) during Days 1-3, Days 3-5 or Days 5-7 of IVC in six combinations as follows: AAA, AAP, APP, PPP, PPA and PAA. Serum or GM-CSF increased secretion of interferon (IFN)-tau in Experiments 1 and 2 both between Days 5 and 7 of group culture and during individual culture. Secretion of IFN-tau during individual culture was determined by the medium in which embryos were group cultured and the effects of GM-CSF and serum were not additive. In Experiment 3, the presence of GM-CSF between Days 1 and 3 of culture was responsible for stimulation of secretion of IFN-tau between Days 5 and 7; IFN-tau secretion was detected as early as Day 3 post insemination.
Ontogeny and the effects of corticosteroid pretreatment on aquaporin water channels in the ovine cerebral cortex.	The aim of the present study was to determine the ontogeny and effects of corticosteroid pretreatment on aquaporin 4 (AQP4) channel mRNA and protein expression in the cerebral cortex of sheep during development. A portion of the cerebral cortex was snap-frozen from fetuses of dexamethasone- and placebo-treated ewes at 60%, 80% and 90% of gestation, dexamethasone- and placebo-treated newborn lambs and adult sheep. Cerebral cortical samples were obtained 18 h after the last of four 6 mg dexamethasone or placebo injections were given over 48 h to the ewes and adult sheep. Lambs were treated with 0.01 mg kg(-1) dexamethasone or placebo in the same schedule as the ewes and adult sheep. Amplification of an ovine AQP4 cDNA fragment was accomplished by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction using primers based on a homologous bovine sequence. The resulting cDNA was used to determine AQP4 channel mRNA expression by Northern hybridisation using phosphorimaging. The relative abundance of AQP4 mRNA was normalised to the ovine ribosomal gene L32. A portion of the frontal cortex was also analysed for AQP4 protein expression by Western immunoblot. Densitometry was performed and the results expressed as a ratio to an adult brain pool. Aquaporin 4 channel mRNA and protein were detectable as early as at 60% gestation. There were no changes in AQP4 mRNA expression among the fetal, newborn and adult groups or after dexamethasone pretreatment in any age group. The expression of the AQP4 protein was higher (P < 0.05) in fetuses at 80% and 90% of gestation (2.9- and 3.3-fold, respectively), in lambs (3.2-fold) and in adult sheep (3.8-fold) compared with fetuses at 60% of gestation, as well as in adult sheep (1.3-fold) compared with fetuses at 80% of gestation. Dexamethasone pretreatment resulted in decreases (P < 0.05) in AQP4 protein expression in the lambs and adult sheep, but not in the fetal groups. We conclude that: (1) AQP4 mRNA and protein were expressed early in fetal and throughout ovine development; (2) protein, but not mRNA, expression increased between 60% and 80% of gestation and did not differ from adult levels by 90% of gestation; and (3) dexamethasone pretreatment resulted in decreases in AQP4 protein expression in lambs and adult sheep, but not in fetuses. The maturational increases in AQP4 protein expression and dexamethasone-related decreases in expression were post-transcriptional, because changes in AQP4 mRNA expression were not observed.
Myogenesis in sheep is altered by maternal feed intake during the peri-conception period.	The effect of varying short-term maternal feed intake during the peri-conception period on the development of ovine fetal muscle at mid-gestation was investigated. Superovulated donor Merino ewes (n = 24) were fed a roughage/grain pelleted diet (10.1 MJME/kg dry matter) at either 1.5x maintenance (H; high) or 0.5x maintenance (L; low) from 18 days before until 6 days after ovulation. Embryos were transferred to recipient ewes (n = 60) on day 6. Singleton fetuses were collected on day 75 of gestation and placental weights, fetal body dimensions and fetal organ and muscle weights recorded. The number, type and size of muscle fibres and the dry matter, RNA, DNA and protein content in the semitendinosus muscle were determined. Maternal feed intake did not influence body dimensions, organ development or muscle weights in the fetus. However, L feed intake decreased total muscle fibre number in the fetus by approximately 20% (P = 0.06) compared to H feed intake. This resulted from a reduced secondary to primary fibre ratio (P < 0.05) and indicated that secondary fibre formation occurred at a reduced rate in L fetuses. In addition, protein:DNA ratio tended to be lower in muscles of L fetuses (P < 0.1). It is concluded that restricting feed intake over the peri-conception period reduces or delays myogenesis in fetal sheep. The potential mechanisms by which nutritional availability during this period may influence subsequent myogenic development are discussed.
Role of prostaglandins in the metabolic responses of the fetus to hypoxia.	The effect of inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis on the fetal metabolic response to hypoxemia was examined by infusing indomethacin during periods of reduced maternal uterine blood flow.
Fetal fornix transection and gestation length in sheep.	Experiments in several species indicate that the hippocampus influences hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis function. In fetal sheep, simultaneous ACTH and cortisol rises over the last 30 days of gestation peak at term and are necessary for birth. We hypothesized that if the fetal hippocampal formation is functional in late gestation, loss of hippocampal input to the HPA axis following fetal fornix transection would change gestation length in comparison to controls. At 118-121 days of gestation (dG), stereotaxic technique was used in fetal sheep to sham transect (SHAM; n = 8) or transect (FXTX; n = 6) the dorsal fornix at the level of the hippocampal commissure. No differences were found between SHAM and FXTX fetuses in daily hormone profiles over the last week of gestation or in gestation length (148.0 +/- 1.2 vs. 149.0 +/- 0.4 dG, respectively). We conclude that the fetal hippocampus is immature in late gestation and we speculate that an immature hippocampus is necessary for the loss of negative feedback control that gives rise to the long term, simultaneous increases in ACTH and cortisol that are indispensable for labor and delivery at term in sheep.
Characterization of renal alpha-adrenoceptor subtypes in sheep during development.	Intrarenal arterial infusion of alpha 1-adrenergic agonists decreases renal blood flow, glomerular filtration rate, and water and sodium excretion to a greater extent in fetus and newborn than in adult sheep. In vitro renal vascular effects of alpha 1- and alpha 2-adrenergic agonists are also greater in fetus than newborn or adult. The present studies were designed to examine the ontogeny of renal alpha-adrenoceptor subtypes in sheep for whom the renal effects of alpha-adrenergic agonists have been described at similar postconceptional ages. With the use of radioligand-binding techniques, specific binding of [3H]prazosin (alpha 1-adrenergic antagonist), [3H]idazoxan, and [3H]rauwolscine (alpha 2-adrenergic antagonists) was studied in fetus, lamb, and adult sheep kidneys. The specific binding of the three radioligands was greatest in fetal and least in adult kidneys. Analysis of Scatchard plots revealed a greater renal alpha 1-adrenoceptor density in fetuses than in lamb or adults. Renal alpha 2-adrenoceptor density was also greater in fetuses than in lambs. These studies suggest that the increased renal alpha 1- and alpha 2-adrenergic effects in fetal sheep are related to increased alpha-adrenoceptor density. Competition experiments and rank adrenergic antagonist potency suggested the presence of only the alpha 1b-adrenoceptor in fetal and adult sheep kidneys. The alpha 2-adrenoceptor that was found only in the fetal sheep had a low affinity to rauwolscine, which is unlike that described in most species for alpha 2-adrenoceptors.
Lambing rate using vitrified blastocysts is improved by culture with BSA and hyaluronan.	Fatty acid-free bovine serum albumin (BSA(FAF)) can be added to supplement medium used in the culture of sheep embryos. BSA(FAF) was able to support blastocyst and subsequent embryo development at rates equivalent to that of fetal calf serum (FCS)-supplemented medium when fresh embryos were transferred. Furthermore, culture with BSA(FAF) significantly increased development of vitrified blastocysts transferred into synchronized sheep. The addition of the glycosaminoglycan, hyaluronan (HA) to the culture medium in the third and fifth day also increased cryo-tolerance of blastocysts and in turn lambing rate was improved.
Comparative aspects of somatic cell nuclear transfer with conventional and zona-free method in cattle, horse, pig and sheep.	Nuclear transfer (NT) is a complex procedure that requires considerable technical skills. Over the years attempts have been made to simplify the micromanipulations involved and to make the procedure more user-friendly. A significant step forwards has been the development of the zona-free NT methods. We have used zona-free NT with mechanical aspiration of the metaphase plate as a mean of enucleation, in a comparative approach with the conventional nuclear transfer zona-enclosed method in cattle, horse, sheep and pig. The absence of the zona considerably facilitates the enucleation step and significantly increases cell fusion success. On the other hand, the culture of zona-free NT embryos requires the embryos to be cultured individually or anyway separated from each other to avoid aggregation and also requires to prolong the in vitro culture up to the blastocyst stage before transfer. Blastocyst rate is equal or higher with zona-free method as compared to zona-enclosed method while survival after cryopreservation and development to term is comparable. In conclusion, our findings, together with published data, demonstrate that the zona-free system described in this paper can significantly increase the output of NT blastocysts over the conventional zona-enclosed system.
Vulnerability of dopaminergic amacrine cells and optic nerve myelination to prenatal endotoxin exposure.	Intrauterine infection has been linked to preterm delivery and neurologic injury. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of fetal inflammation induced by exposure to endotoxin on the structure and neurochemistry of the retina and optic nerve.
Determination of the genital tubercle migration period in Morada Nova sheep foetuses by ultrasonography.	The aim of this study was to determine the period of genital tubercle (GT) migration using ultrasonography in Morada Nova sheep foetuses (n = 117) from natural mating (NM) and frozen embryo transfer (ET) to determine the window when foetal sexing can be determined. The examinations were performed using transrectal ultrasonography with a dual-frequency linear transducer (6.0 and 8.0 MHz) from day 30-54 of pregnancy at 48-h intervals. The period of GT migration of foetuses produced by NM varied from 36 to 46 days of pregnancy, resulting in an average of 39.5 +/- 2.9 days. For foetuses derived from ET, GT migration varied from 42 to 52 days of pregnancy with an average of 48.5 +/- 3.3 days, being possible the GT of foetuses from ET start to migrate 96 h later even if they are of the same gender. Migration of the GT occurred earlier (p < 0.05) in foetuses produced by NM and sexing accuracy for triplet pregnancies (77.8%) was significantly inferior (p < 0.05) to single (100%) and twin (92.9%) pregnancies for foetuses derived by NM. The results allow one to conclude that foetal sexing can be done from the 50th day onwards in foetuses produced by NM and from the 55th day onwards in foetuses derived from ET, and that multiple pregnancies compromise the sexing accuracy by ultrasonography.
Stem cell model of hematopoiesis.	Hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) are characterized by their capacity of self-renewal, multi-lineage differentiation, and the ability to rescue lethally irradiated hosts. Both murine and human studies have attempted to characterize and purify HSC based on surface phenotypes, metabolic markers, in-vitro clonogenic and in-vivo competitive repopulation assays. The cell-fate of HSC is under intrinsic regulation by various transcription factors, including Hox and SCL genes, cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors and telomerase, and extrinsic regulation by various signaling pathways involved in embryonic development, including the Notch, Wnt and bone morphogenetic proteins (BMP) pathways. Recent advances in genome research and gene profiling technologies have begun to unravel the regulatory mechanism of HSC by novel genes with hitherto unknown functions in hematopoiesis. The stem cell model of hematopoiesis has also shed light on the concepts of leukemic stem cells (LSC), which involves the presence of a rare population of cells that share the essential HSC attributes of self-renewing, replication and differentiation into progenies of leukemic blasts.
Fetal renal response to atrial natriuretic factor decreases with maturation.	The presence of atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) in fetal tissues and plasma early in gestation suggests that ANF may have a physiological role in cardiocirculatory homeostasis in utero. However, reported responsiveness of the fetal kidney to ANF varies markedly. To characterize the ontogeny of fetal renal responsiveness to ANF, chronically catheterized ovine fetuses at 114 +/- 1 days (n = 6) and 131 +/- 1 days (n = 6) received successive (30 min each) intravenous infusions of ANF at rates of 5, 25, and 100 ng.min-1.kg-1. Mean (+/- SE) fetal plasma ANF levels increased from 328 +/- 54 to 1,866 +/- 482 and 521 +/- 135 to 1,579 +/- 295 pg/ml in the younger and more mature fetuses, respectively. Mean urine volume (0.17 +/- 0.03 to 0.37 +/- 0.09 ml.min-1.kg-1) and GFR (0.9 +/- 0.2 to 1.8 +/- 0.4 ml.min-1.kg-1) increased in the early gestation fetuses but did not change in the older fetuses. Mean urine sodium excretion and osmolar clearance increased by 352 and 155% in the early gestation fetal lambs and 118 and 50% in the older animals. The fetal plasma ANF clearance rates (PCANF) were lower in the early vs. the late gestation fetuses (68 +/- 15 vs. 116 +/- 28 ml.min-1.kg-1, respectively). These results demonstrate a decrease in fetal renal responsiveness to ANF with advancing fetal age. Multiple factors appear to contribute, including changes in PCANF and maturational changes in glomerular filtration rate, renal tubular function and ANF receptor metabolism.
Cortisol inhibits ACTH secretion in late-gestation fetal sheep.	In sheep, parturition is initiated by an increase in fetal adrenal secretion of cortisol. In term fetuses, adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) secretion is increased despite increasing plasma concentrations of cortisol. The present study was performed to investigate whether fetal ACTH secretion is under negative-feedback control by cortisol. Ten chronically catheterized fetal sheep (140 days gestation) were used in this study. Five were infused with hydrocortisone sodium succinate (10 micrograms/min) and five with 0.9% physiological saline for 5 h. Fetal and maternal blood samples were drawn at 1-h intervals. Infusion of hydrocortisone sodium succinate significantly increased fetal plasma cortisol concentration from 38.2 +/- 8.4 ng/ml to mean levels between 74.6 +/- 11.6 and 88.5 +/- 4.7 ng/ml. Fetal plasma ACTH concentration was significantly decreased from 129 +/- 36 to 31 +/- 5 pg/ml after 5 h of infusion. Infusion of saline did not alter fetal plasma cortisol or ACTH concentration. Neither of the infusions significantly altered maternal plasma concentrations of ACTH or cortisol, or fetal or maternal blood gases, or plasma concentrations of sodium or potassium. With one exception, all fetuses were born alive at 145 +/- 1 and 144 +/- 1 days gestation in the saline- and hydrocortisone sodium succinate-infused groups, respectively. The results of this study demonstrate that at 140 days gestation fetal ACTH secretion is under negative-feedback control by cortisol.
Hormone ontogeny in the ovine fetus. XXVI. A sex difference in the effect of castration on the hypothalamic-pituitary gonadotropin unit in the ovine fetus.	The detection of pulsatile ovine LH (oLH) secretion in the sheep fetus by 81 days gestation (term 147 days), the suppression of fetal gonadotropin secretion by chronic administration of an LH-releasing factor agonist or antagonist, and the capacity of N-methyl; D-aspartate (a neuroexcitatory amino acid analog) to evoke a fetal oLH pulse strongly support a functional LH-releasing factor pulse-generator in the ovine fetus. In light of the sex difference in fetal gonadal function and gonadotropin secretion before day 114, we postulated that fetal castration would have a discordant effect on the pattern of gonadotropin secretion in males and females. Fetal sheep were either castrated (male = 11; female = 9) or sham operated (male = 9; female = 6) at 110-115 days gestation. Chronic indwelling arterial and venous catheters were implanted, and animals were studied for up to 30 days. During each study period fetal arterial blood samples were drawn every 15 min for 5 h and the plasma assayed for oFSH and oLH by specific RIAs. Multiple studies were performed on each fetus. In all fetuses (both intact and castrated) a decrease in oLH pulse frequency occurred after day 130. In female fetuses before day 130, castration had no effect on mean oLH pulse frequency (sham, 0.72 +/- 0.19 pulses/5 h; castrate, 0.50 +/- 0.13 pulses/5 h; P greater than 0.05). After day 130, pulsatile oLH secretion decreased in both intact and castrated female fetuses to undetectable levels during the sampling period. In contrast, castration significantly (P less than 0.001) increased mean oLH pulsatility in males before and after day 130 (less than 130 days, sham, 1.06 +/- 0.24 pulse/5 h; castrate, 2.70 +/- 0.22 pulse/5 h; greater than 130 days, sham, 0.18 +/- 0.12 pulses/5 h; castrate, 1.65 +/- 0.26 pulses/5 h). Mean oLH pulse amplitude was increased by castration only in the male fetuses (sham, 3.89 +/- 0.87 ng/ml; castrate, 6.02 +/- 0.39 ng/ml; P less than 0.05). oFSH pulses were infrequent in both sexes and not influenced by castration. The mean plasma concentration of oFSH was greater in intact female fetuses than in intact males (female, 5.65 +/- 1.15 ng/ml vs. male, 2.07 +/- 0.45 ng/ml; P less than 0.01). Castration increased the mean value for plasma oFSH in males (4.40 +/- 0.43 ng/ml; P less than 0.001) but had no effect in females (3.83 +/- 0.64 ng/ml; P greater than 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Fetal and postnatal renin secretion in female sheep exposed to prenatal betamethasone.	Prenatal glucocorticoids have long-term effects on the kidney and blood pressure that may be mediated by the renin-angiotensin system (RAS). We studied the effects of antenatal betamethasone administration on renin in fetal and adult female sheep. Pregnant sheep received 2 doses of betamethasone or vehicle, at 80 and 81 days of gestation (dGA). Fetuses were delivered within 24 hours following treatment, at 135 dGA, or allowed to continue to term. Plasma and kidney samples were collected from fetal and 1-year-old sheep. Plasma and renal renin and renin messenger RNA (mRNA) were measured. Significant decreases in plasma and renal renin and renin mRNA were apparent in female betamethasone fetuses at 80 dGA (P < .05). At 135 dGA, renal renin concentrations were significantly increased in betamethasone fetuses. At 1 year, renin levels were similar in the 2 groups. These findings suggest that prenatal betamethasone has an immediate effect on expression and secretion of renin. The downregulation of renin at 80 dGA may affect nephron development.
Effect of fetal adrenalectomy on messenger ribonucleic acid for proopiomelanocortin in the anterior pituitary and for corticotropin-releasing hormone in the paraventricular nucleus of the ovine fetus.	In the ovine fetus, adrenalectomy at 90-120 days gestational age (dGA) results in a gradual increase in basal concentrations of fetal plasma ACTH beginning at approximately 122 dGA. Bilateral adrenalectomy at 116-119 dGA also results in an increase in POMC mRNA in the fetal pituitary. It is not known whether both the paraventricular nuclei (PVN) of the hypothalamus and the anterior pituitary of the ovine fetus are responsive in late gestation to the removal of cortisol negative feedback. The purpose of this study was to determine the subsequent effect of fetal adrenalectomy at 118-121 dGA on the CRH mRNA content in fetal PVN and on POMC mRNA in the fetal anterior pituitary at 134 dGA. Mature Rambouellet-Columbia cross-bred ewes (n = 10), bred on a single occasion only and carrying fetuses of known gestational ages, were used. Both fetal adrenal glands were exposed via a retroperitoneal approach and removed [adrenalectomized (ADX); n = 5]. In control fetuses (CONT; n = 5) adrenal glands were exposed and isolated, but not removed. At 134 dGA, fetal plasma cortisol concentrations were significantly greater in CONT fetuses (7.2 +/- 2.5 ng/ml) than in ADX fetuses (mean +/- SD, 1.97 +/- 0.9 ng/ml; P less than 0.025). At 134 dGA the fetal PVN was removed by micropunching, and the anterior pituitary was separated from neurointermediate and posterior lobes after necropsy. Total RNA was prepared by the guanidium isothiocyanate-cesium chloride method and subjected to Northern analysis using specific cDNA probes to CRH and POMC. After autoradiography, quantification of mRNA was performed by scanning densitometry. Quantities of specific hybridization signal for POMC and CRH were normalized to the content of actin mRNA in each individual sample. RNA prepared from PVN exhibited a single specifically hybridizing band for CRH of approximately 1300 nucleotides. RNA prepared from anterior pituitary exhibited a single specifically hybridizing band for POMC at approximately 1300 nucleotides. Anterior pituitary POMC mRNA was significantly increased (P less than 0.025) in ADX fetuses (236 +/- 32% of CONT). CRH mRNA in PVN was greater in ADX fetuses than in CONT fetuses (P less than 0.05; mean +/- SEM, 179 +/- 21% of CONT). Adrenalectomy in fetal sheep significantly increased expression of CRH and POMC. We conclude that the increased levels of mRNA for CRH and POMC indicate that both the fetal PVN (CRH) and the anterior pituitary (POMC) are responsive to removal of the primary source of circulating glucocorticoid at this gestational age.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Pulmonary development in the fetal lamb: morphometric study of the alveolar phase.	The alveolar stage of intra-uterine lung development was analyzed morphometrically in 18 fetal lambs at 112, 124, 142, or 148 (term) days of gestation. The right lungs were fixed at uniform distending pressure and the tissue embedded in Epon for light microscopy. Over the whole period, right lung volume (VL) increased more rapidly than body weight to reach a mean value of 185 cm3 at term. The increase in VL was greatest between 112 and 124 days gestation. Throughout the period of study the distal lung consisted of alveolar-like air-spaces lined by walls with a single capillary system. Despite this mature morphology, further differentiation took place as established by two independent measurements. First, interalveolar wall thickness decreased from 4.12 +/- .03 microns at 112 days to 2.55 +/- .02 microns at term. Secondly, alveolar surface area increased at a greater rate than lung volume (as VL 1.06), suggesting a moderate increase in surface complexity, but not a subdivision of existing air-spaces. This latter finding was supported by numerical density values which remained fairly constant. We conclude that throughout this period active growth involves the addition of alveolar units of basically similar size. This is a similar process to the one noted previously in postpneumonectomy compensatory growth.
Developmental control of the Nlrp6 inflammasome and a substrate, IL-18, in mammalian intestine.	The inflammasome is a multiprotein complex whose formation is triggered when a NOD-like receptor binds a pathogen ligand, resulting in activated caspase-1, which converts certain interleukins (IL-1β, IL-18, and IL-33) to their active forms. There is currently no information on regulation of this system around the time of birth. We employed transcript profiling of fetal rat intestinal and lung RNA at embryonic days 16 (E16) and 20 (E20) with out-of-sample validation using quantitative RT-PCR. Transcript profiling and quantitative RT-PCR demonstrated that transcripts of core components of the NOD-like receptor Nlrp6 inflammasome (Nlrp6, Pycard, Caspase-1) and one of its substrates, IL-18, were increased at E20 compared with E16 in fetal intestine and not lung. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated increased Pycard in intestinal epithelium. Western blotting demonstrated that IL-18 was undetectable at E16, clearly detectable at E20 in its inactive form, and detectable postnatally in both its inactive and active form. Dramatic upregulation of IL-18 was also observed in the fetal sheep jejunum in late gestation (P = 0.006). Transcription factor binding analysis of the rat array data revealed an overrepresentation of nuclear transcription factor binding sites peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPAR-γ) and retinoid X receptor-α and chicken ovalbumin upstream promoter transcription factor 1 in the region 1,000 bp upstream of the transcription start site. Rosiglitazone, a PPAR-γ agonist, more than doubled levels of NLRP6 mRNA in human intestinal epithelial (Caco2) cells. These observations provide the first evidence, to our knowledge, linking activity of PPAR-γ to expression of a NOD-like receptor and adds to a growing body of evidence linking pattern recognition receptors of the innate immune system and intestinal colonization.
Production of transgenic sheep.	The production of transgenic sheep has proven difficult compared to the mouse and lower animals. The work load is far greater and the rates of success far less by most criteria. However, the benefits to human and animal health and agricultural productivity are potentially enormous (Ward and Nancarrow, Chapter 5) and support for the continuation of the work is assured. Unfortunately, the low rate of transgenesis for sheep, at about 1% of injected, transferred embryos, means that investigation of the regulation of expression of the transgenes, their phenotypic effects, and optimization of the fusion gene constructs, all of utmost importance to the agricultural industry, can seldom be addressed. We know now that the mouse may not be a good model for the sheep, an example being the ovine metallothioneinovine growth hormone fusion gene, GH9, for which expression and phenotypic effects were quite different for sheep and mice. In sheep, pronuclear microinjection of several hundred copies of the foreign gene into embryos is the only published method used to regularly produce transgenics and it will be the standard by which future methods for incorporation of the transgene are judged.
Maldevelopment of the cerebral cortex in the surgically induced model of myelomeningocele: implications for fetal neurosurgery.	The purpose of this study is to describe the malformations of cortical development detected in a model of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leakage and the influence of surgical closure technique on developmental outcome.
High hydrostatic pressure treatment improves the quality of in vitro-produced ovine blastocysts.	Exposure to sub-lethal hydrostatic pressure (HP) treatment is emerging as an approach to improve the general resistance of gametes and embryos to in vitro conditions. The present study was aimed to evaluate the effect of HP treatment on in vitro-produced ovine blastocysts. Experiment 1 was aimed to define optimal treatment parameters: two different HP treatments were applied to blastocysts and embryo survival was evaluated. In Experiment 2, HP parameters (40 MPa, 70 min, 38 °C) selected in Experiment 1 were used to treat blastocysts. Embryo quality was assessed and compared with untreated controls by counting total cell number, the inner cell mass (ICM) and trophectoderm (TE) cells and by evaluating nuclear picnosis. HP-treated blastocysts were processed for gene expression analysis (AQP3, ATP1A1, BAX, CDH1, HSP90β, NANOG, OCT4 and TP53) 1, 5h after the end of HP exposure. Results showed that the hatching rate of embryos treated at 40 MPa was significantly higher than that of the 60 MPa-treated group (P<0.01) and similar to untreated embryos. Blastocysts exposed at 40 MPa showed higher ICM (P<0.05) and TE (P<0.01) cell number and a lower percentage of picnotic nuclei (P<0.05) compared with the control group. Significantly lower abundance for BAX (P<0.01) and OCT4 (P<0.05) transcripts were observed in HP embryos than in the control group. In conclusion, treatment with HP improved the quality of in vitro-produced ovine blastocysts by increasing their cell number and reducing the proportion of nuclear picnosis.
Mid-gestation ovine cardiomyocytes are vulnerable to mitotic suppression by thyroid hormone.	Circulating fetal 3,3',5-tri-iodo-l-thyronine (T(3) ) is maintained at very low levels until a dramatic prepartum surge. 3,3',5-Tri-iodo-l-thyronine inhibits serum-stimulated proliferation in near-term ovine cardiomyocytes, but it is not known whether midgestation myocytes are also inhibited. Because early cessation of cardiomyocyte mitosis would result in an underendowed heart, we hypothesized that 0.67 gestation (100 of 145 days gestation) ovine cardiomyocytes would be insensitive to suppressive growth effects of T(3) . These younger cardiomyocytes were grown with T(3) in 10% serum-enriched media for 24 hours. Physiological (0.37, 0.75, and 1.5 nmol/L) concentrations of T(3) dramatically suppressed mitotic activity in cardiomyocytes (P < .001). 3,3',5-Tri-iodo-l-thyronine stimulated phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase and AKT (also known as Protein Kinase B [PKB]) signaling pathways. Nevertheless, the protein content of the cell cycle suppressor, p21, increased 2-fold (P < .05), and promoter, cyclin D1, decreased by 50%. Contrary to our hypothesis, elevated levels of T(3) powerfully inhibit proliferation of midgestation fetal cardiomyocytes. Thus, midgestation maternal hyperthyroidism might lead to an underendowed fetal myocardium.
Animal models for prenatal gene therapy: the sheep model.	Large animal experiments are vital in the field of prenatal gene therapy, to allow translation from small animals into man. Sheep provide many advantages for such experiments. They have been widely used in research into fetal physiology and pregnancy and the sheep fetus is a similar size to that in the human. Sheep are tolerant to in utero manipulations such as fetoscopy or even hysterotomy, and they are cheaper and easier to maintain than non-human primates. In this chapter, we describe the animal husbandry involved in generating time-mated sheep pregnancies, the large number of injection routes in the fetus that can be achieved using ultrasound or fetoscopic-guided injection, and laparotomy when these more minimally invasive routes of injection are not feasible.
Monitoring for potential adverse effects of prenatal gene therapy: use of large animal models with relevance to human application.	Safety is an absolute prerequisite for introducing any new therapy, and the need to monitor the consequences of administration of both vector and transgene to the fetus is particularly important. The unique features of fetal development that make it an attractive target for gene therapy, such as its immature immune system and rapidly dividing populations of stem cells, also mean that small perturbations in pregnancy can have significant short- and long-term consequences. Certain features of the viral vectors used, the product of the delivered gene, and sometimes the invasive techniques necessary to deliver the construct to the fetus in utero have the potential to do harm. An important goal of prenatal gene therapy research is to develop clinically relevant techniques that could be applied to cure or ameliorate human disease in utero on large animal models such as sheep or nonhuman primates. Equally important is the use of these models to monitor for potential adverse effects of such interventions. These large animal models provide good representation of individual patient-based investigations. However, analyses that require defined genetic backgrounds, high throughput, defined variability and statistical analyses, e.g. for initial studies on teratogenic and oncogenic effects, are best performed on larger groups of small animals, in particular mice. This chapter gives an overview of the potential adverse effects in relation to prenatal gene therapy and describes the techniques that can be used experimentally in a large animal model to monitor the potential adverse consequences of prenatal gene therapy, with relevance to clinical application. The sheep model is particularly useful to allow serial monitoring of fetal growth and well-being after delivery of prenatal gene therapy. It is also amenable to serially sampling using minimally invasive and clinically relevant techniques such as ultrasound-guided blood sampling. For more invasive long-term monitoring, we describe telemetric techniques to measure the haemodynamics of the mother or fetus, for example, that interferes minimally with normal animal behaviour. Implanted catheters can also be used for serial fetal blood sampling during gestation. Finally, we describe methods to monitor events around birth and long-term neonatal follow-up that are important when considering human translation of this therapy.
Effects of in utero endotoxemia on the ovine fetal brain: a model for schizophrenia?	Infections during pregnancy can adversely affect the development of the fetal brain. This may contribute to disease processes such as schizophrenia in later life. Changes in the (cyto-) architecture of the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), particularly in GABA-ergic interneurons, play a role in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. We hypothesized that exposure to infection during pregnancy could result in cyto-architectural changes in the fetal ACC, similar to the pathogenesis seen in schizophrenia. Fetal sheep of 110 days GA (term=150 days GA) received an intravenous injection of 100 ng or 500 ng lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or saline as control. After delivery at 113 days GA, the cyto-architecture of the cingulate cortex (CC) was examined by immunohistochemistry. High dose LPS exposure resulted in a decreased density of GFAP-, calbindin D-28K- and parvalbumin-immunoreactive cells in the CC. In addition, these cells and calretinin-immunoreactive cells showed a changed morphology with reduced cell processes. This study provides further evidence that intra-uterine endotoxemia can induce changes in the fetal brain which correspond with changes seen in schizophrenia.
Antenatal glucocorticoids reduce growth in appropriately grown and growth-restricted ovine fetuses in a sex-specific manner.	Antenatal glucocorticoids are administered to mature the fetal lungs before preterm birth. Glucocorticoids also have non-pulmonary effects, including reducing fetal body and brain growth. The present study examined whether glucocorticoid administration has a sex-specific effect on growth in appropriately grown (control) and intrauterine growth-restricted (IUGR) fetal sheep. IUGR was induced at 0.7 gestation in fetal sheep by single umbilical artery ligation. On Days 5 and 6 after surgery, IUGR or control fetuses were exposed to the synthetic glucocorticoid betamethasone (BM; 11.4mg) or saline via intramuscular maternal administration. On Day 7, a postmortem was conducted to determine fetal sex and weight. Compared with control fetuses, the birthweight of male and female IUGR fetuses was significantly reduced (by 18.5±4.4% (P=0.002) and 21.7±6.0% (P=0.001), respectively). Maternal administration of BM significantly reduced bodyweight in both control and IUGR fetuses (by 11.3±2.8% and 20.5±3.6% in control male and female fetuses, respectively; and by 22.9±3.1% and 38.3±3.4% in IUGR male and female fetuses, respectively; P<0.001 for all, versus control+saline) fetuses. In control and IUGR animals the degree of growth restriction was greater in females than males (P<0.05) following administration of BM. These data suggest that antenatal glucocorticoids reduce fetal growth in a sex-specific manner, with females more growth restricted than males.
Maturation of the mitochondrial redox response to profound asphyxia in fetal sheep.	Fetal susceptibility to hypoxic brain injury increases over the last third of gestation. This study examined the hypothesis that this is associated with impaired mitochondrial adaptation, as measured by more rapid oxidation of cytochrome oxidase (CytOx) during profound asphyxia.
Long-term cryopreservation had no adverse effect on viability of embryos and their offspring in sheep.	Cryopreservation has been widely utilized in livestock and human embryos, which allows for storage of worthy embryos for a long period of time, although it is still uncertain as how long embryos can be cryopreserved in liquid nitrogen. The aims of this study were to evaluate the effects of long-term cryopreservation on birth rate of transferred sheep embryos at morula or blastocyst stage, and to investigate growth performance and viability of their offspring. A total of 373 sheep embryos from the same batch, which had been cryopreserved by conventional procedure for 0.5 yr (n=259) or 7.5 yr (n=114), respectively, were transferred to 373 recipient ewes. In parallel, artificial inseminations, acting as controls, were conducted in the same month in both years (n=81 and n=110) that embryo transfers were performed. Results showed that there were no significant differences in birth rate between short-term cryopreservation group (cryopreserved for 0.5 yr in 2003) and long-term cryopreservation group (cryopreserved for 7.5 yr in 2010) either at the morula or blastocyst stage (p>0.05). No specific differences in birth weight were observed among short-term cryopreservation, artificial insemination 1 (performed in 2003), long-term cryopreservation and artificial insemination 2 (performed in 2010) group (p>0.05). The weaning weights were similar between the short-term cryopreservation and long-term cryopreservation group (p>0.05). The mortality rates of the offspring were similar in both groups as well (p>0.05). We concluded that the long-term cryopreservation did not appear to adversely affect birth rate of the embryos, growth performance and viability of their offspring. Our results indicated that the cryopreserved sheep embryos should be stable in liquid nitrogen for at least 7.5 years.
Cellular differentiation and proliferation in the ovine lung during gestation and early postnatal development.	This study investigates epithelial cell differentiation and proliferation in specific anatomical regions of the ovine lung during prenatal and postnatal development. Immunohistochemistry was used to identify ciliated epithelial cells, Clara cells, neuroepithelial bodies and type II pneumocytes in the lungs of preterm (67, 127 and 140 days of gestation), full-term (147 days) and postnatal (9, 16 and 91 days old) lambs. Differentiation of ciliated epithelial cells was seen at 67 days of gestation and at term for Clara cells. Neuroepithelial bodies were first detected at 127 days of gestation. From 16 to 91 days of age there was a significant (P <0.05) increase in beta-tubulin (present in ciliated epithelial cells) and Clara cell protein (present in Clara cells) in multiple regions of the lung. Detection of Ki67, a marker of proliferation, in preterm lambs showed a reduction in proliferation index in multiple anatomical regions of the lung between 70 days of gestation and term. Cell proliferation increased following parturition, and then decreased between 16 and 91 days of age, with the largest reduction occurring in the alveolar compartment. Knowledge of which cells are present at specific times of lung development provides valuable information on the anatomy of the ovine lung, improving its use as a model for ovine and human neonatal disease. In addition, the antibodies used here will be valuable for future studies requiring the identification and quantification of respiratory epithelial cell phenotypes in the sheep lung.
Effects of intra-amniotic lipopolysaccharide exposure on the fetal lamb lung as gestation advances.	Intra-amniotic lipopolysaccharide (LPS) exposure may affect neonatal outcome by altering fetal lung and immune system development. We hypothesized that intra-amniotic LPS exposure would cause persistent fetal pulmonary responses as the lungs develop in utero.
Effects of the histone methyltransferase inhibitor UNC0638 on histone H3K9 dimethylation of cultured ovine somatic cells and development of resulting early cloned embryos.	Aberrant hypermethylation of histone H3 lysine 9 (H3K9) may be involved in the developmental failure of cloned embryos. UNC0638 is a type of small molecule that can specifically inhibit the enzyme activity of histone methyltransferase EHMT2 and reduce the H3K9 dimethylation (H3K9me2) levels in cells. The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of UNC0638 in regulating H3K9me2 and development of cloned embryos. Results showed that UNC0638 could efficiently reduce H3K9me2 levels of cultured sheep foetal fibroblast cells in a concentration-dependent manner. Cloned embryos were subsequently produced from UNC0638-treated donor cells with down-regulated H3K9me2, but their in vitro development was not improved when compared with the control. Our study suggested that revision of the single histone H3K9me2 modification may be not sufficient for rescuing the development of cloned embryos. However, because of its low cellular toxicity, UNC0638 may still be a potential chemical that could be used in regulating epigenetic modification of cloned embryos. 
In utero exposure to environmentally relevant concentrations of PCB 153 and PCB 118 disrupts fetal testis development in sheep.	Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB) are environmental pollutants linked to adverse health effects including endocrine disruption and disturbance of reproductive development. This study aimed to determine whether exposure of pregnant sheep to three different mixtures of PCB 153 and PCB 118 affected fetal testis development. Ewes were treated by oral gavage from mating until euthanasia (d 134), producing three groups of fetuses with distinct adipose tissue PCB levels: high PCB 153/low PCB 118 (n = 13), high PCB 118/low PCB 153 (n = 14), and low PCB 153/low PCB 118 (n = 14). Fetal testes and blood samples were collected for investigation of testosterone, testis morphology, and testis proteome. The body weight of the offspring was lower in the high PCB compared to the low PCB group, but there were no significant differences in testis weight between groups when corrected for body weight. PCB exposure did not markedly affect circulating testosterone. There were no significant differences between groups in number of seminiferous tubules, Sertoli cell only tubules, and ratio between relative areas of seminiferous tubules and interstitium. Two-dimensional (2D) gel-based proteomics was used to screen for proteomic alterations in the high exposed groups relative to low PCB 153/low PCB 118 group. Twenty-six significantly altered spots were identified by liquid chromatography (LC)-mass spectroscopy (MS)/MS. Changes in protein regulation affected cellular processes as stress response, protein synthesis, and cytoskeleton regulation. The study demonstrates that in utero exposure to different environmental relevant PCB mixtures exerted subtle effects on developing fetal testis proteome but did not significantly disturb testis morphology and testosterone production. 
Differentiation of sexual behavior in cattle, sheep and swine.	Gonadal steroid hormones influence an animal's sexual behavior through two primary means. During development they affect differentiation of the brain (primarily in males), and after puberty, circulating concentrations of steroids influence expression of sexual behaviors. In mammals, sexual behaviors of females are regarded as inherent (independent of steroids secreted by the developing ovary). Males, on the other hand, must undergo active differentiation that is brought about by actions of testicular steroids on the brain during discrete sensitive periods of early development. Sexual differentiation in mammals is referred to as processes of defeminization and masculinization. Defeminization is loss of behavioral traits inherent to females and occurs prenatally in sheep but postnatally in swine. Comparative data are lacking for cattle, but preliminary evidence indicates prenatal defeminization of sexual behaviors. Masculinization is acquisition of behavioral traits characteristic of males. Adult females of all three species show mounting behavior after prolonged treatment with testosterone, and in cattle and swine, there is, as yet, no strong evidence that males undergo masculinization of sexual behaviors. In sheep, limited observations are suggestive of two sensitive periods for masculinization; one prenatally and one postnatally. The earlier concept that differentiation of sexual behaviors in mammals occurs prenatally in species with a long gestation and postnatally in species with a short gestation must now be modified in view of recent findings in swine, in which defeminization occurs postnatally. Further studies will likely identify additional species differences with respect to differentiation of sexual behaviors.
Interception of the development of self tolerance in fetal lambs.	Investigation of the nature of immunological self tolerance has usually relied upon experimental protocols in which the tolerant state is interrupted in mature animals with the production of autoimmune disease. While such research has improved the understanding of those processes operative in overt autoimmunity, it has not been informative in relation to events associated with the establishment of self tolerance. Any description of this state which is to be based on observation will necessitate the use of experimental systems that permit observation of animals during the development of self tolerance. The present experiment entailed intervention approximately one third of the way through the gestation period of fetal lambs. An earlier experiment had established that 54-day fetal lambs would accept allografts of adult skin. This indicated that the capacity to discriminate between self and non-self had not been acquired at that age. Fetuses at this stage of gestation were submitted to either partial or total removal of the thyroid gland. The excised tissue was then implanted in nude mice for periods of 5 to 9 weeks. It was subsequently replaced subcutaneously, either in the original donor or in another fetus at a comparable stage of gestation. At postmortem examination, several weeks later, self implants in lambs from which the thyroid gland had been completely removed displayed autoimmune thyroiditis of varying degrees of severity. However, self implants in partially thyroidectomized animals were uniformly free from autoimmune manifestations. This implied that these reactions had not been directed against contaminating murine tissues in the implants replaced in completely thyroidectomized lambs. All allogeneic implants were subject to vey heavy lymphocytic infiltration, usually with accompanying necrosis consistent with allograft rejection. This was taken as an indication that hypothyroid fetal lambs had become immunocompetent by the time of thyroid reimplantation. Spontaneous immunological reactivity against reimplanted self thyroid tissue by thyroidectomized lambs was interpreted as a failure to acquire the capacity for self recognition as a result of antigen deprivation.
Ontogeny of the circadian variation of plasma prolactin in sheep.	The ontogeny of circadian rhythms is unknown. The newborn sheep has a circadian rhythm of temperature; to study the ontogeny of other rhythms, we examined the 24-h variation of plasma prolactin concentration in fetal and newborn sheep. To this effect, we measured plasma prolactin concentration in chronically catheterized fetuses (n = 7) and in newborn lambs raised under short day nycthemeral (12 light:12 dark, n = 13) or constant light conditions (n = 5). Indwelling catheters were implanted into the jugular vein and carotid artery of late gestation fetuses (0.9 gestation) and newborns (5-29 days old). Experiments were performed 4 or more days after surgery. Lambs were kept in a canvas sling and were fed cow's milk either by mouth or through a nasogastric catheter at established time intervals. Haematocrit, pH, and blood gases were measured before and after the experiments in all cases and remained within normal values. Lights were on and room temperature was maintained constant during the whole experiment. Samples were obtained every 1-2 h for 24 h in fetuses and newborn lambs under nycthemeral conditions and every hour for 48 h in newborn lambs kept under constant light. Plasma prolactin was measured by radioimmunoassay. The presence of a 24 h rhythm was determined by Cosinor analysis. Fetuses, aged 129 +/- 6 days (SD) n = 7, showed a variation in plasma prolactin concentration with a period of 24 h that fits the equation: plasma prolactin (ng ml-1) = 97.0 + 15.4 cos 15 (t-23.0), P = 0.035.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Controls of corticotrophin-releasing factor output by hypothalamic tissue from fetal sheep in vitro.	Corticotrophin-releasing factor (CRF) is thought to be an important physiological regulator of the pituitary-adrenal axis in fetal sheep and, as such, plays a fundamental role in the initiation of parturition in this species. However, little is known of the controls of CRF secretion from the fetal hypothalamus. We looked for the presence of CRF in fetal hypothalami, and examined whether the hypothalamic CRF concentration or molecular species changed in relation to gestational age. We established an in-vitro perifusion system to examine the release of CRF from perifused hypothalami taken from fetuses at day 100 and day 140 of pregnancy, under basal conditions and in response to potassium depolarization and/or dexamethasone administration. Immunoreactive CRF was present in fetal hypothalami as early as day 100 (2.42 +/- 0.99 (S.E.M.) micrograms/g protein, n = 9) and in similar concentrations at day 140 (2.31 +/- 0.69 micrograms/g protein, n = 9). There was a significant (P less than 0.05) increase in hypothalamic CRF content to 14.79 +/- 4.09 micrograms/g protein (n = 16) between day 122 and day 135 of gestation. Using Sephadex G-75 chromatography, hypothalamic extracts at day 100, days 122-135 and day 140 eluted with a single peak of immunoreactivity which corresponded to synthetic ovine CRF(1-41). The basal release of CRF from perifused hypothalami at day 140 (76.6 +/- 10.4 pg/fraction, n = 8) was significantly (P less than 0.05) greater than at day 100 (50.1 +/- 10.2 pg/fraction, n = 11). Dexamethasone significantly inhibited basal CRF release at day 140 of gestation but not at day 100.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Cardiovascular status during ketamine anesthesia in the fetal lamb.	To determine the effects of maternal ketamine anesthesia on fetal hemodynamic and cardiac function, a study was carried out on 8 chronically catheterized fetal lambs. Ketamine was administered intravenously to the mother every 15 min during 1 h. The fetal PO2 and pH remained within physiological limits whereas the PCO2 decreased from 44.35 +/- 1.36 to 37.32 +/- 4.75 Torr (p less than 0.05). The following changes of the fetal heart systolic time intervals were observed: a progressive lengthening of the preejection period (PEP) (from 52 +/- 10 to 63 +/- 11 ms, p less than 0.01), a shortening of the ejection time (ET) and a significant increase of the PEP/ET ratio (from 0.32 +/- 0.04 to 0.47 +/- 0.01, p less than 0.01). The two components of PEP, electromechanical delay and the isovolumetric contraction time were both prolonged. A progressive rise of fetal systolic and diastolic pressures was also noted (p less than 0.01). Fetal heart rate increased (145 +/- 33 to 190 +/- 28 beats/min, p less than 0.01) and cardiac beat-to-beat variability decreased (from 0.028 to 0.009, p less than 0.01) during the ketamine anesthesia. This study demonstrates that maternal anesthesia with ketamine can alter indices of fetal myocardial function and other cardiac parameters used in fetal and neonatal monitoring, without affecting tissular oxygenation.
Detection of histocompatibility-Y antigen: identification of sex of pre-implantation ovine embryos.	Indirect immunofluorescence was used to detect the presence of a male-specific protein (H-Y antigen) on pre-implantation ovine embryos. Eight-cell to blastocyst stage embryos were surgically collected from superovulated ewes, classified as fluorescent (H-Y positive) or non-fluorescent (H-Y negative) and either transferred to recipient ewes or karyotyped to confirm embryonic sex. H-Y antigen was detected on eight-cell through blastocyst stage embryos. Overall, 88% (50/57) of the embryos (eight-cell to early blastocyst stage) classified as H-Y positive or H-Y negative were male and female, respectively. Survival after transfer of embryos subjected to the H-Y antigen assay was high (63%), which supports the use of this procedure in conjunction with embryo transfer in sheep to produce pregnancies in which sex of the fetus is known.
Immunocytochemical study of anti-Müllerian hormone in sheep ovarian follicles during fetal and post-natal development.	Anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) was detected in perinatal and postnatal sheep ovaries, using avidin-biotin immunohistochemistry with a monoclonal antibody specific for ruminant AMH. Immunoreactivity was limited to granulosa cells, and was influenced both by the degree of follicular development, and by the age of the animal. In the fetus, only the most advanced follicles exhibited a faint immunoreactivity at 120 days gestation, and no reaction was observed in younger animals. Immediately before and after birth, primordial follicles were still negative, but a faint reaction was elicited in young growing follicles, increasing with follicle size. Strong immunoreactivity was visible in antral follicles, especially in the innermost granulosa cell layers, close to the oocyte and lining the antral cavity.
Substrate utilization by the fetal sheep lung during the last trimester.	In vivo substrate utilization has not been described for the maturing fetal lung. We, therefore, studied pulmonary delivery and use of major fetal substrates in six chronically catheterized fetal lambs over 119-141 days gestation. Oxygen, glucose, lactate, and alpha-amino nitrogen concentrations were measured in the pulmonary artery and pulmonary vein whereas lung blood flow was determined using labeled microspheres. We found that lung oxygen availability and use increased near term. Oxygen delivery averaged 4960 +/- 480 (SEM) microliters/min and rose with fetal age (p less than 0.05); uptake averaged 708 +/- 111 microliters/min and increased 93% near term (p less than 0.05). In contrast, glucose availability and use fell with gestation. Pulmonary artery glucose decreased with time (p less than 0.001), with a mean drop of 5.05 +/- 1.71 mg/dl in individual animals (p less than 0.05). Average glucose uptake was 844 +/- 225 micrograms/min and fell near term (p less than 0.05). Lactate was produced by the lung at a mean rate of 534 +/- 176 micrograms/min; this did not change with gestation. Lung amino nitrogen availability increased with fetal age. Pulmonary artery amino nitrogen rose by 1.35 mg/dl, or 43% (p less than 0.001) and lung delivery of amino nitrogen increased (p less than 0.05). The mean pulmonary glucose/O2 ratio was 1.48 +/- 0.26 and decreased with gestation (p less than 0.05), being less than 1.0 near term. The glucose-lactate/O2 ratio was 0.67 +/- 0.26, implying that 30% of lung oxidative metabolism is still unaccounted for. The alterations in delivery of substrates to the lung which were identified may serve as signals for pulmonary maturation, inducing the changes in lung metabolism that were found near term.
Fetal lamb coagulation system during normal birth.	The contribution of the birth process to the unique coagulation system in the young was investigated using the fetal lamb model. Specific components of the coagulation system were measured prior to and immediately following delivery of the lamb. The results show that the birth process itself does not contribute to the physiologically low levels of coagulation factors present in the newborn.
Norepinephrine regulation of fetal heart rate: multiple mechanisms of action.	Norepinephrine was infused intravenously for 30 minutes into chronically catheterized sheep fetuses averaging 133 days' gestation. At infusion rates of 3.9, 12, and 39 micrograms/min, heart rate initially decreased as much as 40 bpm and then gradually increased to 50 bpm above the control value by the end of the infusion. Thereafter, heart rate increased further, and by the end of a 30-minute recovery period, heart rate was still 66 bpm above the control value. In fetuses pretreated with either a ganglionic blocker or a parasympathetic blocker, norepinephrine caused a large and sustained rise in heart rate by 124 bpm, which declined rapidly when the infusion was terminated. These results suggest that circulating norepinephrine affects fetal heart rate by several mechanisms: a baroreceptor-mediated suppression, a direct stimulation by norepinephrine, a gradual weakening of the vagal and an increase in cardiac sensitivity to sympathetic stimulation. In addition, there appears to be a long-term positive correlation between fetal heart rate and circulating norepinephrine levels.
Decreased urine production in the near-term fetal lamb after maternal ethanol infusion.	Intravenous infusion of 1 gm ethanol/kg maternal body weight over 1 hour to three conscious catheterized near-term pregnant ewes decreased fetal urine production for 3 hours (overall decrease of 54% from control). This effect in the near-term fetus is opposite to the ethanol-induced diuresis that occurs in adults.
Cardiorespiratory response to cyanide of arterial chemoreceptors in fetal lambs.	Cardiorespiratory response to the stimulation of the carotid and aortic receptors by sodium cyanide was examined in fetal lambs in utero at 0.8 (120 days) gestation. Injections of 50-400 micrograms cyanide into the inferior vena cava or the carotid artery of intact fetuses elicited bradycardia and respiratory responses that varied from a single gasp to rhythmic respiratory movements but no significant change in arterial blood pressure. Carotid sinus denervation eliminated the cardiorespiratory response to intracarotid injection of cyanide and sinoaortic denervation abolished the response to inferior vena caval injection. It is concluded that in fetal lamb in utero the aortic and carotid bodies are active, and hypoxic stimulation of these chemoreceptors results in cardiorespiratory response characterized by slowing of fetal heart rate, respiratory effort, and no consistent change in arterial blood pressure.
Maturation of spontaneous fetal diaphragmatic activity and fetal response to hypercapnia and hypoxemia.	The electromyogram (EMG) of the diaphragm, lateral rectus, and nuchal and hindlimb muscles were studied during spontaneous activity and during hypercapnia or hypoxemia in eight fetal sheep from 0.5 to 0.8 gestation (73-128 days). At the earliest gestational age, diaphragmatic EMG activity was mainly tonic and associated with tonic activity of somatic muscles. The stimulus for the diaphragmatic activity originated centrally. Brief periods of a rapid-eye-movement (REM) state characterized by phasic lateral rectus and diaphragmatic activity and absence of nuchal activity were recognized. Furthermore, from 0.5 to 0.7 gestation onward, activity of all muscles increased. Thereafter increased specificity of activity in relation to the apparent REM and non-rapid-eye-movement (NREM) state occurred. With maturation, phasic diaphragmatic activity increased at the expense of tonic activity. The most striking effect of maturation on apnea was a greater proportion of apnea lasting greater than 1 min, but the total duration of apnea as a percent of a total recording remained unchanged. The quantitative response to hypercapnia during maturation was independent of the pattern of spontaneous diaphragmatic activity. Hypercapnia at 0.5 gestation changed the pattern of diaphragmatic EMG activity from mainly tonic to phasic. Thus the central chemoreceptors and appropriate neuronal pathways are present and functional as early as 0.5 gestation. Hypercapnia at 0.5 gestation caused a shift in diaphragmatic EMG power to lower frequencies similar to that found during control conditions in the older fetus. This might suggest that during maturation there is increased recruitment of phrenic motoneurons. Hypoxemia abolished tonic somatic activity at 0.5 gestation and decreased phasic diaphragmatic activity at more advanced gestational ages. Therefore the central inhibitory mechanisms of hypoxemia are developed by 0.5 gestation.
Restoration of lung liquid volume following its acute alteration in fetal sheep.	1. The experiments were aimed at determining the means by which lung liquid volume is controlled in fetal sheep. Six unanaesthetized chronically catheterized fetuses between 121 and 144 days of gestation were used in experiments in which lung liquid volume was acutely reduced or increased. 2. The effects on lung liquid volume, secretion and flow in the trachea were continuously monitored until the original volume was restored. Tracheal pressure, breathing activity, electrocortical activity and laryngeal adductor muscle activity were also monitored. 3. Following a mean reduction in lung liquid volume of 54.1% (40.0 +/- 4.3 ml) there was a reduction in tracheal pressure of 1.91 +/- 0.26 mmHg. There was no change in the rate of lung liquid secretion and there was a near cessation in its rate of efflux from the trachea. Influx of liquid from the upper airway was rarely seen. 4. 5 h after its reduction, lung liquid volume had returned to control values. Tracheal pressure and the rate of liquid flow in the trachea returned to control values over 7-8 h. 5. In the hour following the reduction in lung liquid volume the incidence and amplitude of fetal inspiratory muscle electromyogram (e.m.g.) activity were reduced by 19% and 28% respectively. There was no change in laryngeal adductor muscle activity or in the duration of fetal sleep states. 6. When lung liquid volume was increased by 25.4 +/- 3.1 ml tracheal pressure increased by 2.01 +/- 0.17 mmHg. Although there was no change in the rate of liquid secretion there was a rapid efflux of liquid from the trachea principally during epochs of fetal breathing activity thus returning lung liquid volume to its control value. 7. Following the increase in lung liquid volume there were no changes in the incidence or amplitude of fetal inspiratory muscle activity, the activity of laryngeal adductor muscles or in the duration of sleep states. 8. It is concluded that following its alteration in fetal sheep lung liquid volume is restored by passive means. There was no evidence of volume-receptive neural reflexes being activated in defence of lung liquid volume.
An integrated model for intestinal development in the fetal sheep.	The interrelationships between 22 parameters relating to small intestinal morphology and enterocyte cell kinetics were investigated. It was found that all significant correlations could be related to changes in intestinal diameter. The area of accessory and mucosal coats in cross section was computed and a constancy of relative composition, independent of experimental perturbation, was noted. It appears likely that despite seemingly trophic responses in specific tissue components, an overall balance of these components is maintained in the developing intestine. The need to develop integrated models of gut structure and function to allow adequate interpretation of results is discussed.
Ontogenesis of thyroid hormone receptor in foetal lambs.	Affinity and concentration of T3 receptor sites have been measured in nuclear extracts from the brain, lung, and liver of foetal lamb tissues at 50, 82 and 100 days of gestational age. Control experiments indicated that the concentration of sites was similar when nuclear extracts or purified nuclei were used, and that maximal binding capacity was obtained after 2 h of incubation at 22 degrees C. The pattern of receptor binding affinity when different thyroid hormone analogs were used in competition assays with [125I]T3 was T3 greater than 3,5,3'-triiodothyroacetic acid (Triac) greater than T4 in the lung and brain. In the liver, Triac had the same affinity as T3. The sedimentation coefficient of the receptor was 3.6 S in lung. There were minor changes of receptor affinity in the brain, but not in the lung or liver, during development with the highest value at 82 days. Receptor concentration increased twice from 50 to 82 days. Since in the brain this is the period of neuroblast proliferation, the results suggest that thyroid hormone is required for proper foetal lamb development and, in particular, for neuroblast proliferation and/or differentiation.
Acidemia potentiates the plasma catecholamine response to hypoxemia in fetal sheep.	Though hypoxemia has been shown to stimulate adrenal medullary catecholamine (CA) release and raise plasma CA concentrations, the extent to which concomitant acidosis influences the magnitude of this response is unclear. Eleven chronically catheterized late gestation (0.8 term) fetal lambs in utero were investigated during a baseline control period and following the onset of umbilical cord constriction-induced hypoxemia (PO2 = 5-15 Torr). Plasma CA rose in response to hypoxemia in all animals but was potentiated by the development of acidemia. Baseline norepinephrine (NE = 487 +/- 113 pg/cm3 and increased to 1,386 +/- 127 pg/cm3 (p less than 0.001) in response to hypoxemia. Hypoxemia combined with acidemia promoted an even greater rise in NE to 6,726 +/- 1,289 pg/cm3 (p less than 0.05). Plasma epinephrine (E) = 99 +/- 36 pg/cm3 during baseline observations and increased to 512 +/- 81 pg/cm3 (p less than 0.001) in response to hypoxemia. However, an additional 9-fold increase (p less than 0.05) was noted when hypoxemia was combined with acidemia (E = 4,311 +/- 1,449 pg/cm3). Thus, acidosis significantly potentiates the magnitude of the plasma CA response to hypoxemia in the late gestation fetus.
Cell junctions and membrane specializations in the ventricular zone (germinal matrix) of the developing sheep brain: a CSF-brain barrier.	Cell junctions in the ventricular zone (germinal matrix) of the embryonic and foetal sheep brain were examined with thin-section and freeze-fracture electron microscopy. Neuroependymal cells in the early ventricular zone (days 19-40 of embryonic development, gestation period 147 days) exhibit a novel arrangement of cell junctions that connect adjacent neuroependymal cells at their lateral cell membranes next to the ventricular system. Small but typical gap junctions were also identified from the earliest stages examined. In serial thin sections and using a goniometer with a tilting device, the cell contacts showed a tight junction-like appearance of close and continuous fusion between neighbouring cell membranes. However, they were not arranged in a belt-like fashion close to the ventricular surface, but spiralled from the ventricular pole of the cells along the lateral cell membrane towards the deeper parts of the ventricular zone. Their freeze fracture appearance was different from that of single-stranded tight junctions in that the dimensions of their ridges and grooves were generally greater and the E-face grooves contained many particles. The junctions were especially prominent where more than two cells made contact. At mid-gestation they were less prominent than earlier and at 125 days gestation the neuroependymal layer was replaced by a mature-looking normal ependymal layer in which individual ependymal cells were connected by zonulae adherentes and large gap junctions; orthogonal arrays were also prominent. The close contact between gap junctions and single-stranded junctions found early in gestation suggests that there may be some developmental relation between these two membrane specializations. The transient single-strand junctions presumably form the morphological basis for a recently described CSF-brain barrier in the early foetal sheep brain. They may also have some mechanical function in anchoring neighbouring cells together in the region of the developing brain where cells are continuously dividing and migrating.
The distribution of plasma proteins during early embryonic development in the sheep.	The distribution of the five plasma proteins that are quantitatively most important during development in the sheep has been studied in embryos of 15 to 21 days gestation. The three primary embryonic layers and tissues that differentiate from them were tested for the presence of alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), fetuin, albumin, transferrin and alpha 1-antitrypsin using the indirect immunoperoxidase method. Fetuin was the most prominent of these proteins particularly in the developing central nervous system. Fetuin and transferrin appeared early in the differentiating mesoderm and, with albumin and AFP, were detected in tissues originating from all three layers during the course of development. alpha 1-Antitrypsin appeared to have a limited distribution. All five plasma proteins were detected before the establishment of a circulatory system. It is suggested that their appearance in embryonic tissue is related to its stage of development and that they play an important part in early differentiation.
Comparison of proteins in CSF of lateral and IVth ventricles during early development of fetal sheep.	This study examines the relationship between plasma proteins in blood and in CSF in the developing brain of sheep fetuses between 30 and 60 days gestation. Five proteins account for the very high concentration of protein in fetal CSF (over 1000 mg/100 mg/100 ml at 30 days): alpha-feto-protein, fetuin, albumin, alpha 1-antitrypsin and transferrin; the concentration of each protein is similar in lateral and IVth ventricular CSF at 30 days. By 40 days there is considerable decrease in protein concentration in lateral ventricular CSF. At this age in the IVth ventricle the overall total was unchanged, although there were changes in concentration of individual proteins. At 60 days the concentration of each protein in both compartments had fallen below that at 40 days; the marked concentration difference between lateral and IVth ventricular CSF was still present. Experiments using i.v. [125I]- or [3H] labeled plasma proteins in 30-40-day fetuses showed that very little protein penetrated into lateral ventricular CSF by 3-5 h after injection; in the same experiments [125I]albumin reached a CSF/plasma ratio of about 15% in the IVth ventricle (compared with 55% for the natural steady state). Autoradiographic studies carried out on material from the same animals did not give evidence for transfer of labeled protein across the choroid plexuses although any such penetration may have been below the threshold of the method. Other explanations for the high concentration of protein in CSF that were considered include penetration via cerebral vessels and synthesis of plasma proteins by choroid plexus epithelial cells or neurons within the brain.
In vitro effects of high molecular weight forms of ACTH on the fetal sheep adrenal.	The direct involvement of the pituitary-adrenal axis in birth has been well established, at least in sheep, and its removal prolongs pregnancy. As part of the process the fetal sheep adrenal grows rapidly during the 10-15 d prepartum and is associated with a large rise in the plasma corticosteroid concentration. This does not seem to result from an increased ACTH secretion. The fetal adrenal in vivo seems refractory to circulating ACTH and shows poor response to elevation of plasma concentration. Thus the signal for the adrenal hypertrophy and the initiation of parturition remains unclear. The responsiveness of the fetal adrenal to ACTH has been re-examined using isolated adrenal cells. The study shows that in the fetal sheep these are not inherently unresponsive to ACTH, but that high-molecular-weight forms of ACTH block the action of ACTH. These peptides may be responsible for controlling the activity of the adrenal in situ.
Simultaneous measurements of lactate turnover rate and umbilical lactate uptake in the fetal lamb.	Lactic acid represents a major exogenous nutrient for the developing fetal lamb in utero. Our study was undertaken (a) to quantitate the net consumption of lactate by the fetus, (b) to quantitate the net lactate production and metabolism by the placenta, and (c) to compare the net fetal lactate consumption with fetal lactate use, measured simultaneously with radioactive tracers. 14 pregnant sheep were prepared with catheters in the maternal femoral artery and uterine vein and in the fetal aorta and umbilical vein. By simultaneous application of the Fick principle to the uterine and umbilical circulations, placental glucose consumption and placental lactate production were rapid, averaging 39.8 +/- 5.1 and 11.8 +/- 0.7 mg.min-1. Net lactate umbilical uptake averaged 1.95 +/- 0.16 mg-1.kg.min-1. During infusion of L-[14C(U)]lactate, fetal lactate turnover was much more rapid, averaging 6.5 +/- 0.8 mg.kg-1.min-1, and lactate utilization within the anatomic fetus was 5.9 +/- 0.7 mg.kg-1.min-1. During infusion of tracer glucose, endogenous fetal lactate production from glucose and nonglucose substrates averaged 3.0 and 1.5 mg.kg-1.min-1, respectively. The present studies have quantitated under well oxygenated, steady-state conditions, the rapid placental metabolism and production of lactate, the net fetal consumption of lactate, and the rapid endogenous fetal lactate production from glucose and nonglucose substrates.
Sound stimulation available to the sheep foetus.	Work on the uterine sound environment has been carried out by implanting a hydrophone on the neck of the foetus in two pregnant ewes a few weeks before term. Stimulation with sounds of known amplitude and the use of calibrated microphones and a frequency analyser enabled us to assess (1) the amount of attenuation of sounds of different frequency when they had passed through the maternal tissues and amniotic fluid to become available to the foetus, (2) the absolute level of sound entering the amnion from within the mother and (3) the recognizability of external sound such as speech, when recorded from within the uterus. One puzzling feature of the results has been our inability to hear those sounds which are commonly believed to constitute a predominant stimulus for the foetus: those produced by the maternal cardiovascular system.
Growth and cytodifferentiation of the fetal lamb adrenal cortex prior to parturition.	Growth patterns and cytodifferentiation of the fetal lamb adrenal cortex, from 136 days of gestation to birth at normal term, have been examined. The gland almost doubles in weight over this period (0.45--0.80 g) and the inner cortical zone (zona fasciculata+zona reticularis) nearly quadruples in thickness (0.33--1.25 mm). The phase of rapid growth has begun by 136 days, and the growth patterns are essentially linear. The inner cortical zone consists of light and dark cells, the former increasing in number proportionately more than the dark cells. This change in the cell ratio is linked with increased fetal production of cortisol. As growth and differentiation proceed the light cells increasingly possess a more vesicular SER; mitochondria of the orthodox configuration, with predominantly vesicular cristae; a well developed Golgi complex with numerous small, bristle coated vesicles; and dark granules near the Golgi complex, in the peripheral cytoplasm, and external to the cells. The sixfold increase in the volume of the inner cortical zone and the ultrastructural evidence of cytodifferentiation appear adequate to account for the known increase in the fetal synthesis of cortisol during this stage of pregnancy.
The fetal sound environment of sheep.	Hydrophones implanted inside the intact amniotic sac recorded sounds available to fetal lambs. Unlike recordings made from outside the intact amnion in human subjects, sounds produced at levels similar to normal conversation from outside the ewe were picked up without masking by maternal cardiovascular sounds. Noises from inside the mother were intermittent and linked to her activity.
Ontogeny of leucocyte populations in the spleen of fetal lambs with emphasis on the early prominence of B cells.	The presence and distribution of B cells and other early leucocyte populations are described in the spleen of fetal lambs from 40 to 134 days of gestation (length of gestation 150 days). Computer-assisted morphometric analysis and flow cytometry were used to quantify the early predominance of B cells in mid-gestation. B cells appeared at about 48 days and increased in number to occupy over 20% of the spleen area at 77 days. All spleens were collected on their respective livers and at no stage did the livers contain more than a few IgM-positive (+) cells, which were usually close to blood vessels. Two-colour flow cytometry demonstrated that only 1-2% of IgM+ cells expressed CD5 at 81 days. Beyond 77 days, with the expanding presence of T cells, the percentage of area occupied by IgM+ cells declined to stabilize at about 7% during late gestation. The conventional organization of the splenic white pulp was observed from 90 days along with 5' nucleotidase-positive primary follicles. Double staining technique using immunohistochemical methods demonstrated that IgM+ cells were proliferating in the spleen from as early as 51 days and that clusters of proliferating IgM+ cells were prominent between 60 and 77 days. The results of the present study suggest that during the ontogeny of fetal lambs the spleen is a site of B-cell development or expansion before colonization of the ileal Peyer's patch and the subsequent generation of the preimmune antibody repertoire.
Expression and distribution of fetuin in the developing sheep fetus.	Tissue distribution and developmental expression of fetuin were studied in the sheep fetus from embryonic day (E) 30 to adult (gestational period is 150 days). The presence of fetuin was demonstrated immunocytochemically using anti-fetuin antibodies; in situ hybridisation using short anti-sense oligonucleotide probes labelled with digoxigenin was used to study the ability of the developing tissue to synthesise fetuin, and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was used to estimate the level of fetuin mRNA in selected tissues. Tissue distribution of fetuin was widespread in the younger fetuses (E30 to E40). The most prominent presence due to in situ synthesis was demonstrated in the liver, central nervous system (CNS) including anterior horn cells, dorsal root ganglia and in skeletal muscle cells. Other developing tissues and organs that showed evidence of fetuin synthesis and presence of the protein included mesenchyme, kidney, adrenal, developing bone, gut, lung and heart. In the immature liver (E30-40) there was a strong signal for fetuin mRNA in hepatocytes and also in numerous haemopoietic cells; the proportion of these latter cells that was positive for fetuin mRNA increased between E30 and E40. Only some hepatocytes and a proportion of the haemopoietic stem cells were immunoreactive for fetuin itself at E30-40; immunoreactive hepatocytes were more frequently observed in the more mature outer regions of the developing liver. Lung and gut contained scattered fetuin-positive epithelial cells, especially at E30; a weak fetuin mRNA signal could be detected above background in many of these cells up to E40, but not at E60-E115 or in the adult. Particularly at E30 to E40, mesenchymal tissue both within organs such as the gut and lung and around forming bone and skeletal muscle contained cells that were positive for fetuin mRNA. Mesenchyme at these ages was also very strongly stained for fetuin protein, much of which may reflect fetuin in tissue extracellular spaces and be derived from the high concentration in plasma. By E80 fetuin mRNA was mainly present in the liver and the CNS; staining of the muscle tissue was becoming less pronounced. However in developing bone tissue, staining of chondrocytes for fetuin mRNA was still prominent in older (E80) fetuses; there was also fetuin protein staining of chondrocytes at the growing surfaces of bones and in bone marrow at this age. In the adult, weak immunocytochemical staining for fetuin itself was present in hepatocytes, but the mRNA signal was barely above the threshold limit of detection.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The challenge of fetal gene therapy.	Three recent reports describe the first in vivo attempts at fetal gene therapy. The results underline the need for more intensive studies of the scientific and ethical implications of this new and perhaps more preventive approach to gene therapy.
Ontogeny of fever.	The newborn of the sheep and the guinea pig are refractory to bacterial pyrogen. The newborn lamb does not get fever and the newborn guinea pig only gets fever to large doses of intravenous bacterial endotoxin. It would appear that the lack of febrile response to endotoxin occurs beyond the stage of production of endogenous pyrogen and may represent either an immaturity of the brain mechanisms for heat production and heat conservation, which are driven by endogenous pyrogen, or, as evidence is presented, there may be a circulating endogenous antipyretic substance present in the circulation of the newborn lamb and there is evidence that such a substance is present in the circulation of the ewe close to term. Possible relevance of these findings to lack of fever in the infected human neonate is discussed.
Retention and multilineage expression of human hematopoietic stem cells in human-sheep chimeras.	We have taken advantage of the permissive environment of the preimmune fetus to achieve engraftment of hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) from fetal and postnatal human sources in sheep. The resulting chimeric lambs exhibited long-term multilineage (erythroid, myeloid, lymphoid) expression of donor cells that remained responsive to human-specific cytokines. The small size of the fetus allowed the assessment of the engraftment potential of relatively small numbers of highly characterized human HSC populations, while the large size of the chimeric sheep permitted the long-term evaluation of the HSC activity and response in vivo. The human/sheep xenograft may offer a useful large animal model for the assay and long-term study of the human HSC subsets.
Corticotropin releasing factor mRNA and peptide levels are differentially regulated in the developing ovine brain.	The regulation of CRF mRNA and protein in the developing ovine brain has been studied to assess the hypothesis that CRF is differentially regulated in the hypothalamus (Hypo), hippocampal-amygdala complex (H & A), frontal cerebral cortex (FCC) and brainstem (BS). We used a quantitative RNase protection assay and radioimmunoassay to determine mRNA and peptide concentrations, respectively, from the last third of gestation until term (i.e., from 95 to 142 days gestation (dg); term approximately 145 days). The major findings from this study are: (1) Hypothalamic CRF mRNA was increased by 2-fold in 140-142 dg fetuses compared to 128-138 and 95-123 dg fetuses; P = 0.016. (2) In the hypothalamus of 140-142 dg fetuses, there was a 2.5-fold increase in CRF mRNA derived from polyadenylation at poly(A) sites 2, 3 or 4; P = 0.005. (3) In 128-138 dg fetuses, CRF mRNA in the frontal cortex was 2-fold higher than in the other brain regions during this time period; P = 0.008. (4) CRF peptide concentrations in the Hypo were 2.5-fold higher in 140-142 dg fetuses compared to 95-106 and 128-138 dg fetuses; P = 0.007. (5) CRF peptide concentrations in the frontal cortex were 5.5-fold higher in 140-142 dg fetuses compared to fetuses at 95-106 dg; P = 0.004. (6) CRF peptide concentrations in the H & A were 5-fold higher in 140-142 dg fetuses compared to 95-106 dg fetuses; P = 0.029. The results from the present study demonstrate for the first time that CRF mRNA and peptide are differentially regulated in a region-specific manner during development.
Effects of administration of human chorionic gonadotropin or progesterone before maternal recognition of pregnancy on blastocyst development and pregnancy in sheep.	A series of four experiments with 258 ewes was conducted to determine whether blastocyst size could be altered before normal luteolysis and, if so, how this affected fertility. In Exp. 1 and 2, nonmated and mated ewes, respectively, were treated with hCG (100 IU), progesterone (12 mg), or vehicle on d 11.5 (d 0 = onset of estrus). In Exp. 3 and 4, field trials were conducted to compare the effects of either hCG or progesterone treatment on d 11.5 on subsequent pregnancy rates. In Exp. 1, hCG transiently increased (P < .01) concentrations of progesterone and estradiol in plasma, whereas progesterone treatment increased only plasma progesterone. Neither hCG nor progesterone affected the duration of the estrous cycle. In Exp. 2, d-13 blastocysts were longer (3.5 +/- 1.6 vs .8 +/- .5 cm; Mean +/- SE; P < .05), and concentrations of protein and interferon tau (IFN tau) in uterine flushings were greater (10.7 vs 1.2 micrograms; P < .05) in hCG than in vehicle-treated ewes. Progesterone treatment did not affect blastocyst development. In Exp. 3, pregnancy rates tended to be greater (P < .10) in ewes given hCG than in those given vehicle (44/47; 94% vs 40/48; 83%); however, administration of progesterone in Exp. 4 had no effect on pregnancy rates (P < .14; 41/45; 91% vs 37/46; 80%; control ewes). These results indicate that treatment with hCG on d 11.5 stimulated uterine secretions and conceptus growth sufficiently to influence pregnancy rates.
EDRF in pulmonary resistance vessels from fetal lamb: stimulation by oxygen and bradykinin.	Endothelium-derived relaxing factor-nitric oxide (EDRF-NO) has been studied in isolated, pulmonary resistance vessels from term fetal lambs at a fetal (21 +/- 0.2 mmHg) and neonatal (69 +/- 0.4 mmHg) PO2. Bradykinin dose dependently (0.1-100 nM) relaxed arteries and veins that had been precontracted with a thromboxane A2 analogue. Their response did not differ at low PO2, whereas the response of the arteries was greater at high PO2. Sodium nitroprusside was almost as potent as bradykinin on the arteries, but its action did not vary with PO2. Acetylcholine also relaxed the arteries at higher concentrations (0.1-100 microM). N omega-mono-methyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA) and N omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) (both at 100 microM) weakly contracted arteries at low PO2. The contraction to L-NAME, but not L-NMMA, increased with the PO2. In the arteries, L-NAME had no effect on bradykinin relaxation at low PO2, whereas it was an inhibitor at high PO2. Conversely, L-NMMA slightly inhibited bradykinin relaxation regardless of PO2. In the veins, L-NAME transiently increased basal tone and inhibited bradykinin relaxation at either PO2. Indomethacin (2.8 microM) had no effect on arteries at low PO2, whereas it was a constrictor at high PO2. No indomethacin constriction occurred in the veins. We conclude that fetal pulmonary resistance vessels possess an EDRF-NO relaxing mechanism that is stimulated by bradykinin. In the arteries, this mechanism is more effective at high PO2.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Blood volume response to drainage of left thoracic duct lymph in the ovine fetus.	Although it is known that left thoracic duct lymph flow rate in the ovine fetus is several times that in the adult relative to body weight, the role of the lymphatic system in maintaining fetal blood volume has not been explored. In the present study, the left thoracic lymph duct was drained without return to the fetal circulation in 10 chronically catheterized animals for 7 h. Four experiments in which the lymph was returned to the circulation served as control. During the 7-h drainage, the total volume drained was 174.4 +/- 19.6 ml. Thoracic duct lymph flow rate decreased gradually and averaged 22.2 +/- 3.4% (SE) below control at 6-7 h compared with a small increase in the control experiments (analysis of variance: P = 0.0013 comparing 2 groups). Fetal blood volume decreased (P < 0.0001) by 8.2 +/- 1.1% at 3 h because of a decrease in plasma volume with a further small decrease in blood volume to 9.7 +/- 0.9% below normal at 7 h. The decreases in blood volume at 1, 3, 5, and 7 h were 49.5, 40.2, 24.6, and 21.7%, respectively, of the volume of lymph that was drained. Fetal vascular pressures and heart rate did not change significantly. Although protein concentrations in plasma (-6.8 +/- 1.3%) and lymph (-7.5 +/- 2.1%) decreased, the lymph-to-plasma protein concentration ratio remained constant at 0.72 +/- 0.01.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Low-dose cortisol infusion increases plasma corticosteroid-binding globulin (CBG) and the amount of hepatic CBG mRNA in fetal sheep on day 100 of gestation.	Synthetic glucocorticoids stimulate the production of corticosteroid-binding globulin (CBG) by the liver of the sheep fetus near term (day 145). We have examined whether physiological changes in plasma cortisol alter plasma CBG concentrations, patterns of glycosylation and the amount of hepatic CBG mRNA at earlier times during pregnancy (day 100), prior to the activation of fetal hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal function. Cortisol was infused into chronically catheterized sheep fetuses in amounts that raised the plasma cortisol concentration by about 15 nmol/l. This treatment resulted in a significant increase in the plasma corticosteroid-binding capacity and in the amount of CBG mRNA in the fetal liver, but did not alter the proportion of CBG retained using Concanavalin A chromatography. We conclude that the CBG gene in the liver of fetal sheep responds to physiological changes in plasma concentration of cortisol and we speculate that the rise in plasma CBG concentration is important in diminishing the negative feedback effect of circulating cortisol on the fetal pituitary and hypothalamus.
Successful vitrification of day-6 sheep embryos.	The aim of the experiments described here was to investigate cryopreservation of day-6 sheep embryos by vitrification methods in which the preliminary procedures can be performed at room temperature using VS1 (5.5 mol ethylene glycol l-1 and 2.5 mol glycerol l-1), VS11 (6.0 mol ethylene glycol l-1 and 1.8 mol glycerol l-1) and VS14 (5.5 mol ethylene glycol l-1 and 1.0 mol sucrose l-1). None of the day-6 sheep embryos vitrified with VS1 survived. Day-6 sheep embryos with the exception of blastocysts were vitrified with VS11 with no loss of viability in vitro. The viability of transferred day-6 embryos vitrified with VS11 was however extremely poor. Osmotic damage was avoided by initially exposing the embryos to one of four dilutions (20%, 30%, 40% and 50%) of VS11 for 5 min at 25 degrees C and then vitrifying with the undiluted VS11. The highest survival (88.2%) in vitro was obtained when embryos were exposed to 30% VS11 before vitrification with the undiluted VS11. Survival of transferred embryos exposed to 30% VS11 and then vitrified with undiluted VS11 was 55% (16 of 29) for morulae and 62% (18 of 29) for blastocysts. The pregnancy rate for recipients that received two vitrified sheep embryos of these developmental stages per ewe was 79% (22 of 28). In a small study performed with VS14 the survival of day-6 sheep embryos vitrified with VS14 (in one-step) was 100% in vitro and 50% after transfer.
Prenatal development of the retinohypothalamic pathway and the suprachiasmatic nucleus in the sheep.	Circadian rhythms are present during fetal life in several mammalian species. To characterize the ontogeny of the neural mechanisms that account for circadian rhythmicity in a precocious species, we studied the prenatal development of the retinohypothalamic pathway in lambs (gestation period of 147 days), using horseradish peroxidase and wheat germ agglutinin as anterograde tracers. The suprachiasmatic nucleus was present as early as embryonic day 52 (E52). After E58, the suprachiasmatic nucleus reached its full number of neurons, estimated by the disector method in about 160,000 cells per nucleus at E62. The retinohypothalamic axons invaded the suprachiasmatic nucleus from E58, while neuroblasts were still migrating to the nucleus. At E62, there was a strong retinal projection that evolved until E121, when the retinal afferents established their definitive pattern of distribution in the ventral and central regions of the suprachiasmatic nucleus, and adjacent hypothalamic structures. The development of the retinohypothalamic pathway was delayed by about a week relative to the innervation of other subcortical visual centers. The present findings demonstrated an early prenatal development of the visual pathways in lambs, including the retinohypothalamic pathway, suggesting that the mechanisms for the visual entrainment of circadian rhythms in lambs may be functioning several weeks before birth.
Identification of CD34+ subsets after glycoprotease selection: engraftment of CD34+Thy-1+Lin- stem cells in fetal sheep.	Epitopes on the CD34 molecule detected by some CD34 antibodies can be cleaved by a unique glycoprotease from Pasteurella haemolytica, which cleaves only glycoproteins rich in O-linked glycans. A method to isolate CD34+ cells from adult bone marrow was developed subsequently, in which CD34+ cells were isolated in high purity and yield following immunomagnetic bead selection and detachment with the glycoprotease. Using a variety of other cell-surface markers shown here to be insensitive to glycoprotease, committed progenitors of T lymphoid, B lymphoid, monomyeloid, megakaryoblastic, or erythroid lineages could be identified. Significantly, candidate hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) that are contained within a CD34+Lin- (CD2-, CD14-, CD15-, CD16-, CD19-) (or CD34+CD38-) subset expressing the Thy-1 antigen (CDw90), c-kit receptor (CD117), and CDw109 but lacking expression of CD71 and HLA-DR antigens also were detected. Functionally distinct subsets of glycoprotease-selected CD34+ cells were identified and subfractionated using flow cytometry and fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS). These subsets included candidate HSCs expressing the CD34+Thy-1+Lin- phenotype, which were sorted from a CD34+ fraction of a mobilized peripheral blood (MPB) sample. In a fetal sheep model, when CD34+Thy-1+Lin- cells were injected intraperitoneally, they were capable of homing to the marrow, where they generated long-term multilineage hematopoiesis and maintained human CD34+ cells, indicating that candidate HSC subsets of CD34+ cells selected with this highly specific enzyme were capable of engraftment in vivo. The ability to identify and purify virtually any phenotypically defined subset of glycoprotease-selected CD34+ stem/progenitor cells should facilitate the study of hematopoiesis in vitro and in animal models in vivo as well as the development of novel genetic techniques for the correction of specific blood cell disorders in humans.
Median charge of gonadotrophin isoforms in the pituitary gland and in the circulation of sheep fetuses from mid- to late gestation.	The heterogeneity of LH and FSH in the sheep fetus was studied by determining the median charge of pituitary and circulating isoforms. Pituitary extracts from male and female fetuses at days 75, 95, 120 and 135 of gestation were subjected to agarose suspension electrophoresis. For all fetuses except the day 75 age group, the median mobility of the gonadotrophin isoforms in matching serum samples from the individual fetuses were also determined. LH and FSH in extracts, peripheral samples and column eluates were measured using sensitive and specific sandwich fluoroimmunoassays for ovine gonadotrophins. The median charge of pituitary LH became more basic (P < 0.001) with gestational age, whereas for pituitary FSH more acidic forms (P < 0.001) were present in the older groups. The female fetuses had more basic pituitary isoforms of LH than the males (P < 0.01) between days 95 and 135, and for FSH at day 75 (P < 0.05). In the matching serum samples, the median charge of the LH (P < 0.001) and FSH (P < 0.05) isoforms were more acidic than those in the pituitary gland. No significant effects of age or sex were detected in the median charge of the gonadotrophin isoforms in serum, but in a number of instances the median charge could not be determined due to low serum concentrations which affected the group sizes. These data show that in the sheep fetus LH and FSH are differentially regulated in qualitative as well as quantitative terms, and that the charge of fetal gonadotrophin isoforms changes according to the age and sex of the fetus.
The chondrocranium in sheep and goat. I. (author's transl)]	The morphogenesis of primordial cranium was studied in 12 merino-sheep fetuses (between 25th and 67th day of development) and in 10 goat fetuses (between 24th and 52nd day of development). On the base of histological sections a reconstructional model of the nasal capsule was made.from a 67-day old sheep fetus. In the work, the stages of chondrocranial development in both the two small ruminats were indicated, and the main differences in the construction of chondrocranium in sheep and goat, are like wise shown.
Influence of culture system and oxygen tension on the development of ovine zygotes matured and fertilized in vitro.	The development and quality of ovine zygotes matured and fertilized in vitro were compared after coculture with oviductal cells (CZB-199 system) and culture in synthetic oviduct fluid medium without cells (SOF system). The effect of two oxygen concentrations (5% and 20%) on the development of ovine zygotes in SOF medium was also studied. More ovine zygotes reached the blastocyst stage when culture in SOF medium was performed in 5% O2 rather than 20% O2. A greater number of blastocysts was obtained after culture in the SOF system than coculture in the CZB-199 system. Proportions of grade I (excellent), II (good), III (fair) and IV (poor) blastocysts did not differ significantly between the SOF and CZB-199 systems. Histological examination of hatched blastocysts revealed a superiority of the SOF system for the following: a greater number of total and trophoblastic cells in grade I and II blastocysts; more endodermic cells in grade I blastocysts, higher mitotic index in the inner cell mass of grade II blastocysts and in total and trophoblastic cells of grade I, II and III blastocysts; more grade III blastocysts with mitosis in the inner cell mass; and a lower pyknotic index in the inner cell mass of grade I, II and III blastocysts. Culture in the SOF system improved the rate and quality of blastocysts in comparison with the CZB-199 system. Furthermore, culture in SOF medium with 5% O2 provided more blastocysts than culture in the presence of 20% O2.
Localization of mRNA encoding c-kit during the initiation of folliculogenesis in ovine fetal ovaries.	The c-kit protein is a transmembrane tyrosine kinase receptor that binds the growth factor stem cell factor. Mutant alleles of the genes coding for both the receptor (c-kit) and its ligand (stem cell factor) affect gametogenesis, development of melanoblasts and some aspects of haematopoiesis. The aim of this study was to examine expression of the c-kit gene during folliculogenesis in fetal sheep ovaries using in situ hybridization. A 422 bp cDNA encoding the extracellular domain of the c-kit protein was amplified from sheep ovarian RNA using reverse-transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), cloned and sequenced. Riboprobes transcribed from the ovine cDNA encoding c-kit were used to detect the presence of mRNA encoding c-kit within the ovaries of fetal sheep on days 90, 100, 120 and 135 of gestation (term = 147 days). In day 90 and 100 fetal ovaries, mRNA encoding c-kit was not detected in association with oogonia during the period of meiosis (to prophase I) but was present in some of the isolated oocytes. In ovaries from day 90 to day 135, mRNA encoding c-kit was detected in the oocytes at every stage of follicular growth--primordial through to antral follicles. This pattern of localization is consistent with that demonstrated in mice.
Late-term fetal thymectomy does not prevent the development of gut-homing T cells after birth.	Tissue-specific circulation of T cells is a critical element in the integration of systemic immune responses. Current models of T-cell migration suggest that homing specificities of T cells for tissues such as gut and skin are generated outside the thymus as a result of activation of virgin T cells by antigen in lymph nodes. We have used the sheep fetus (which is immunologically virgin and contains no memory or effector T-cell subsets) to examine the migration of 51Cr-labelled T cells in vivo. We report that gut-homing T cells are not present in the fetus and that gut-homing T cells from postnatal lambs home normally to fetal gut. Fetal thymectomy performed immediately prior to birth failed to prevent the development of gut-homing T cells in postnatal life. Gut-homing specificities on T cells are thus acquired extrathymically.
Fetal lambs are depleted of IgM+ cells following a single injection of an anti-IgM antibody early in gestation.	B-cell depleted fetal sheep were created following a single injection of an anti-IgM monoclonal antibody early in gestation. Six sheep fetuses were given a single intraperitoneal injection of a monoclonal antibody directed against IgM at 63 days of gestation (gestation in sheep = 150 days). The fetuses were killed at 138-142 days of gestation and lymphoid tissues were collected for subsequent light microscopy and immunohistochemical examination. The ileal and jejunal Peyer's patch (PP) follicles in four of the six injected fetuses were markedly reduced in size. Cells in the rudimentary follicles of the ileal PP of these animals showed no reactivity for IgM and most were negative for CD45. The dome regions contained many T cells, which were predominantly CD8+ cells and included gamma delta T cells. The interfollicular areas of the PP of the markedly affected fetuses contained large populations of T cells. The spleen and lymph nodes were also markedly depleted of IgM+ cells and these tissues contained only a small, scattered population of weakly IgM+ cells. Follicular accumulations of IgM+ cells were absent. Large populations of T cells were present in the white pulp of the spleen and cortex of the lymph nodes. The liver did not contain IgM+ cells and the medulla of the thymus was depleted of IgM+ cells. The results of this study suggest that a surface IgM+ B-cell population is present in the sheep fetus at 63 days of gestation, which is essential for the colonization of the ileal PP and subsequent B-cell development.
Foetal endocrine maturation.	In domestic ruminants such as the sheep, birth is effected through sequential maturation of the foetal hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, leading to the increased output of cortisol. Factors regulating foetal pituitary adrenocorticotrophin (ACTH) secretion have been delineated, and these include corticotrophin releasing hormone (CRH), arginine vasopressin, prostaglandin (PG) E2 and endogenous opioids. The pre-partum increase in foetal plasma ACTH is associated with a rise in pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) mRNA in the foetal pars distalis, and with an altered pattern of POMC post-translational processing. Foetal adrenal activation results from an increase in ACTH receptors and enhanced coupling through the Gs protein to adenylate cyclase, and increased expression of key steroidogenic enzymes including P450c17. Cortisol modulates the mechanism by which ACTH activates foetal adrenal function, through specific glucocorticoid receptors (GR) in the foetal adrenal cortex. Although the numbers of GR change with gestation, the relative abundance of GR mRNA does not, pointing to post-translational regulatory mechanisms. Cortisol also stimulates an increase in the concentration of its own high affinity binding protein (corticosteroid binding globulin; CBG) in the foetal circulation, apparently by increasing CBG gene expression in the foetal liver, and by altering the extent of foetal CBG glycosylation in a manner that would be expected to decrease the metabolic clearance of this glycoprotein. Clear evidence for placental CRH and ACTH production is lacking in sheep, but PGE2, produced in increasing amounts by the placenta during late pregnancy, may augment the drive to HPA maturation. Aspects of the maturational pathway of cortisol biosynthesis have been described in other species, including the horse, and some comparison is made with the more detailed information currently available from species such as the sheep.
Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy of fetal lamb brain during hypoxia.	Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy of fetal lamb brain was performed simultaneously with repeated measurements of fetal arterial oxygen saturation during decrease of oxygen supply. Magnetic resonance spectra displayed the same metabolite peaks as detected in the human fetal brain. Cerebral lactate signals could be detected during fetal hypoxia.
Ovine vascular endothelial growth factor: nucleotide sequence and expression in fetal tissues.	To examine the role of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in mediating angiogenesis and vascular permeability during fetal development, we determined the gene expression of VEGF in ovine fetal tissues. Further, we cloned and sequenced the ovine VEGF cDNA encoding VEGF164 from sheep placenta. VEGF protein was localized in epithelial cells of the placenta and fetal kidney, and in hepatocytes of the fetal liver. By Northern analysis, a major VEGF mRNA species of 3.7 kb was identified in all tissues examined, with abundance highest in the lung and lowest in the liver. The most prominent molecular form expressed in ovine fetal tissues appeared to be VEGF164 with low levels of expression of VEGF120 and VEGF188. Cloning and sequence analysis of the most abundant form of ovine VEGF cDNA in the placenta confirmed the prediction of a 164-amino acid peptide, with a putative N-terminal signal sequence of 26 amino acids. Comparison of the VEGF cDNA sequence among different species revealed that VEGF is highly conserved suggesting an important role in development.
Relationship of fetal alanine uptake and placental alanine metabolism to maternal plasma alanine concentration.	Uterine and umbilical uptakes of alanine (Ala) were measured in 10 ewes before (control) and during intravenous infusion of Ala, which increased maternal arterial Ala concentration from 115 +/- 14 to 629 +/- 78 microM (P < 0.001). In 8 of these ewes, placental Ala fluxes were traced by constant intravenous infusion of L-[3,3,3-2H3]Ala in the mother and L-[1-13C]Ala in the fetus. Rates are reported as micromoles per minute per kilogram fetus. Ala infusion increased uterine uptake (2.5 +/- 0.6 to 15.6 +/- 3.1, P < 0.001), umbilical uptake (3.1 +/- 0.5 to 6.9 +/- 0.8, P < 0.001), and net uteroplacental utilization (-0.7 +/- 0.8 to 8.6 +/- 2.7, P < 0.01) of Ala. Control Ala flux to fetus from mother (Rf,m) was much less than the Ala flux to fetus from placenta (Rf,p) (0.17 +/- 0.04 vs. 5. 0 +/- 0.6). Two additional studies utilizing L-[U-13C]Ala as the maternal tracer confirmed the small relative contribution of Rf,m to Rf,p. During maternal Ala infusion, Rf,m increased significantly (P < 0.02) but remained a small fraction of Rf,p (0.71 +/- 0.2 vs. 7.3 +/- 1.3). We conclude that maternal Ala entering the placenta is metabolized and exchanged for placental Ala, so that most of the Ala delivered to the fetus is produced within the placenta. An increase in maternal Ala concentration increases placental Ala utilization and the fetal uptake of both maternal and placental Ala.
Effect of rhIGF-I infusion on whole fetal and fetal skeletal muscle protein metabolism in sheep.	Insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) has been shown to have significant anabolic effects in the regulation of fetal protein metabolism. To investigate the tissue-specific effects of IGF-I on fetal skeletal muscle metabolism, we infused recombinant human (rh) IGF-I directly into the hindlimb of nine chronically catheterized, late-gestation fetal sheep. Substrate balance and amino acid kinetics were measured across the hindlimb and were compared with the effects at the whole body level before and during a 3-h infusion of rhIGF-I into the external iliac artery at 150 microgram/h. Infusion of rhIGF-I resulted in increases in IGF-I concentrations by 2- to 5. 75-fold in the ipsilateral iliac vein and by nearly 3-fold in the abdominal aorta. In the study limb, IGF-I had no effect on protein synthesis (phenylalanine rate of disposal 0.88 +/- 0.13 before vs. 0. 73 +/- 0.19 micromol/min during IGF-I) or breakdown (phenylalanine rate of appearance 0.67 +/- 0.13 before vs. 0.60 +/- 0.17 micromol/min during IGF-I) and did not alter net phenylalanine balance. IGF-I also did not affect hindlimb oxygen or glucose uptake. In contrast, at the whole body level, the rate of appearance of leucine, indicative of fetal protein breakdown, decreased during IGF-I infusion (rate of appearance of leucine 41.1 +/- 3.3 to 37.6 +/- 2.7 micromol/min) as did fetal leucine oxidation (8.4 +/- 0.8 to 6.8 +/- 0.6 micromol/min). There was no change in the umbilical uptake of leucine, and although not statistically significant, fetal leucine accretion increased 2.4-fold. These results provide further evidence that IGF-I promotes fetal protein accretion; however, its site of action is in tissues other than skeletal muscle.
A maturational shift in pulmonary K+ channels, from Ca2+ sensitive to voltage dependent.	The mechanism responsible for the abrupt decrease in resistance of the pulmonary circulation at birth may include changes in the activity of O2-sensitive K+ channels. We characterized the electrophysiological properties of fetal and adult ovine pulmonary arterial (PA) smooth muscle cells (SMCs) using conventional and amphotericin B-perforated patch-clamp techniques. Whole cell K+ currents of fetal PASMCs in hypoxia were small and characteristic of spontaneously transient outward currents. The average resting membrane potential (RMP) was -36 +/- 3 mV and could be depolarized by charybdotoxin (100 nM) or tetraethylammonium chloride (5 mM; both blockers of Ca2+-dependent K+ channels) but not by 4-aminopyridine (4-AP; 1 mM; blocker of voltage-gated K+ channels) or glibenclamide (10 microM; blocker of ATP-dependent K+ channels). In hypoxia, chelation of intracellular Ca2+ by 5 mM 1, 2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid further reduced the amplitude of the whole cell K+ current and prevented spontaneously transient outward current activity. Under these conditions, the remaining current was partially inhibited by 1 mM 4-AP. K+ currents of fetal PASMCs maintained in normoxia were not significantly reduced by acute hypoxia. In normoxic adult PASMCs, whole cell K+ currents were large and RMP was -49 +/- 3 mV. These 4-AP-sensitive K+ currents were partially inhibited by exposure to acute hypoxia. We conclude that the K+ channel regulating RMP in the ovine pulmonary circulation changes after birth from a Ca2+-dependent K+ channel to a voltage-dependent K+ channel. The maturational-dependent differences in the mechanism of the response to acute hypoxia may be due to this difference in K+ channels.
Vasodilator response to exogenous adrenocorticotropic hormone in fetal adrenal cortex precedes increased steroidogenesis in sheep at 105-112 days gestation.	To examine whether the increase in adrenal cortical blood flow induced by adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) is linked to steroidogenesis, or if these effects can be separated.
