Molecular epidemiology of Shigella flexneri in a diarrhoea-endemic area of Lima, Peru.	A year-long community-based study of diarrhoeal diseases was conducted in Canto Grande, a periurban community in Lima, Peru. In 109 (34%) houses out of 323 that were visited, at least one individual was detected with shigellosis. The frequency of the 161 shigella isolates obtained was as follows: 117 S. flexneri (73%), 21 S. boydii (13%), 15 S. dysenteriae (9%), and 8 S. sonnei (5%). Using a non-radioactive ipaH gene probe as a molecular epidemiological tool, a total of 41 S. flexneri strains were shown to be distributed in 25 intra-family comparisons by pairs (icp). Further subdivision, based on a comparison of the serotype, plasmid profile, antibiotic resistances and ipaH hybridization patterns indicated that Group I, with 11 icp (44%), had strains that were identical. Group II with 8 icp (32%), had strains that were different and Group III with 6 icp (24%), had strains with the same serotype and identical ipaH profiles but with differences in other markers. This data indicates that a diversity of shigella clones circulated in this community resulting from both clonal spread and horizontal transfer of genetic elements. Furthermore, ipaH profiling of isolates can be used not only to differentiate between closely related shigella strains but also with other parameters, help to understand the dynamics of the generation of new clones of pathogenic bacteria.
Optimization of virulence functions through glucosylation of Shigella LPS.	Shigella, the leading cause of bacillary dysentery, uses a type III secretion system (TTSS) to inject proteins into human cells, leading to bacterial invasion and a vigorous inflammatory response. The bacterium is protected against the response by the O antigen of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) on its surface. We show that bacteriophage-encoded glucosylation of Shigella O antigen, the basis of different serotypes, shortens the LPS molecule by around half. This enhances TTSS function without compromising the protective properties of the LPS. Thus, LPS glucosylation promotes bacterial invasion and evasion of innate immunity, which may have contributed to the emergence of serotype diversity in Shigella.
Molecular epidemiology of Shigella flexneri in a long-stay psychiatric nursing center during 2001 to 2003.	With six separate wards accommodating more than 1,600 patients, V Nursing Center (VNC) is a long-stay psychiatric nursing center in eastern Taiwan. During 2001 to 2003, 39 shigellosis cases occurred in VNC. Different from the notion that most cases of shigellosis are caused by Shigella sonnei, all except one of these cases were caused by S. flexneri, with the remaining one caused by an S. sonnei isolate. O-antigen serotyping showed that the 38 S. flexneri strains were of either type 1a (n = 20) or 4a (n = 18), two less prevalent serotypes in Taiwan. NotI-based pulsed-field gel electrophoresis analyses performed with 8 type 1a non-VNC strains and 9 type 4a non-VNC strains isolated from 1996 to 2003 for comparison divided the 28 type 1a strains and the 27 type 4a strains into 7 and 10 subtypes, designated subtypes P1A to P1G and subtypes P4A to P4J, respectively. Subtypes P1A and P4A, which appeared in three consecutive years in VNC as well as outside of VNC, are the most prevalent subtypes. Analyses of the relatedness of the VNC strains on the basis of the banding patterns grouped the type 1a and 4a strains into four and five clusters, respectively. All except one of the type 1a strains had 95% similarity, indicating that they had a common parent, whereas the type 4a strains had similarities that ranged from 77 to 93%, suggesting that they were of diverse origins. In two of the outbreaks, less related subtypes of the type 4a strains were found in the same VNC wards in consecutive years, suggesting the possible existence of different subtypes in VNC all the time. Antibiotic susceptibility testing showed that all except one of the S. flexneri strains were sensitive to at least seven antibiotics; the remaining isolate was sensitive to three antibiotics. The data from the latter tests should be helpful for selection of proper treatments for S. flexneri infections in Taiwan.
Molecular and cellular bases of Shigella flexneri virulence]	Shigella flexneri, a Gram negative bacillus, causes bacillary dysentery, an ulcerative disease of the human colon, by invading intestinal epithelial cells. Entry into epithelial cells occurs via an induced phagocytic process which involves the actino-myosin complex. The host-cell receptor and the transmembrane signal which initiate reorganization of the cytoskeleton are under study. Binding to integrins has recently been demonstrated in related models such as the entry of Yersinia pseudotuberculosis and Bordetella pertussis into cells. Bacterial genes necessary to achieve entry are located on five contiguous loci covering 30 kb on a 220 kb virulence plasmid in S. flexneri. Locus 2 has been particularly studied. Six genes organized as an operon encode highly immunogenic proteins among which IpaB (62 kD) and IpaC (48 kD) are the invasins of this microorganism which subsequently grows very rapidly within infected cells due to its capacity to lyse the membrane bound phagocytic vacuole. Once free within the cytoplasm, bacteria interact again with the cell cytoskeleton. They first express Olm (organelle like movement), a phenotype reflecting intracellular movement along actin stress cables. They subsequently express Ics (intracellular spread), a phenotype by which intracellular bacteria induce nucleation and polymerization of actin followed by accumulation of this material at one end of the bacillus. This process causes rapid random movement leading to the formation of protusions which allow passage to adjacent cells. A combination of these two movements achieves bacterial colonization of the epithelium.
PFGE of Shigella flexneri 4c isolates from food-poisoning outbreaks and sporadic diarrhea patients]	To know the molecular characteristic of Shigella flexneri 4c isolates from patients in two food-poisoning outbreaks and one sporadic diarrhea case in Hangzhou, China.
HtpG protein of Shigella flexneri 2a strain 2457T evokes inflammatory response in mice]	To analyze the function of htpG of S. flexneri 2a 2457T, we constructed an htpG deletion mutant and a recovery mutant.
Development of a singleplex PCR assay targeting O-antigen modification genes for molecular serotyping of Shigella flexneri]	To develop a singleplex PCR assay targeting O-antigen modification genes for molecular serotyping of Shigella (S.) flexneri.
Serotype distribution and characteristics of antimicrobial resistance in Shigella isolated from Henan province, China, 2001-2008.	The serotype distribution and susceptibility to 14 antimicrobial agents of 526 isolates of Shigella spp. from four hospitals in Sun county, Henan province, China during 2001–2008, were analysed to identify associations of serotypes with resistance trends. S. flexneri was the most frequent species (92·4%), the remainder was S. sonnei. The prevalent serotype of S. flexneri was 2a (26·7%). Almost all (>99%) isolates were resistant to tetracycline, nalidixic acid and pipemidic acid; >80% were resistant to chloramphenicol, amoxicillin and co-trimoxazole but less than 5% were resistant to polymyxin B, furazolidone, cefotaxime and gentamicin. S. flexneri showed statistically significant higher resistance than S. sonnei to amoxicillin, ampicillin, chloramphenicol and ciprofloxacin but resistance to co-trimoxazole was more common in S. sonnei than in S. flexneri. These results emphasize that monitoring of emerging resistance in Shigella isolates is essential for timely and appropriate recommendations for antimicrobial therapy.
Identification and characterization of a novel Shigella flexneri serotype Yv in China.	Shigella flexneri is the major cause of bacterial shigellosis in developing countries. S. flexneri is divided into at least 19 serotypes, the majority of which are modifications of the same basic O-antigen by glucosylation and/or O-acetylation of its sugar residues by phage encoded serotype-converting genes. Recently, a plasmid encoded phosphoethanolamine (PEtN) modification of the O-antigen has been reported, which is responsible for the presence of the MASF IV-1 determinant and results in conversion of traditional serotypes X, 4a and Y to novel serotypes Xv, 4av and Yv, respectively. In this study, we characterized 19 serotype Yv strains isolated in China. A variant of the O-antigen phosphoethanolamine transferase gene opt (formerly called lpt-O) carried by a pSFxv_2-like plasmid was found in serotype Yv strains, which specifies the phosphorylation pattern on the O-antigen of this serotype. For the majority of the O-antigen units, the PEtN modification occurs on Rha(III), while for a minority, modifications occur on both Rha(II) and Rha(III). Serotype-specific gene detection and PFGE analysis suggested that these serotype Yv isolates were originated from serotypes Y, Xv and 2a by acquisition of an opt-carrying plasmid and/or inactivation of serotype-specific gene gtrII or gtrX. These data, combined with those of serotypes Xv and 4av reported earlier, demonstrate that the plasmid-encoded PEtN modification is an important serotype conversion mechanism in S. flexneri, in addition to glucosylation and O-acetylation. 
Genetic characteristics and trends in the spread of a new Shigella flexneri subserovar with the antigenic formula IV:7,8]	As the result of experiments with the conjugation of S. flexneri strains 4 belonging to an unusual subserovar (IV: 7,8) with Escherichia coli donor strains K12 Hfr C and Hfr H, as well as experiments with converting phages IV and 7,8, this new subserovar of S. flexneri 4, similarly to other S. flexneri subserovars, was proved to be the Y-variant of shigellae rendered lysogenic by the two above phages. The experiments also revealed that 97.9% of all S. flexneri strains 4 (IV: 7,8) under study possessed invasive properties and were capable of inducing specific keratoconjunctivitis in guinea pigs. Observations on the isolation of S. flexneri strains 4 belonging to the new serovar (IV: 7,8), carried out by the All-Union Shigelloses Center on its basal territories in 1980-1984, made it possible to establish the tendency towards a wider circulation of this infective agent in the USSR.
Oral administration of live Shigella vaccine candidates in rhesus monkeys show no evidence of competition for colonization and immunogenicity between different serotypes.	Live oral monovalent Shigella flexneri 2a vaccine candidates as well as bivalent formulations with Shigella sonnei were evaluated in a rhesus monkey model for colonization and immunogenicity. Freshly harvested suspensions of S. flexneri 2a vaccine candidates WRSf2G12 and WRSf2G15 as well as S. sonnei vaccine candidate WRSs3 were nasogastrically administered to groups of rhesus monkeys, Macaca mulatta, either in a monovalent form or when combined with each other. The animals were monitored daily for physical well-being, stools were subjected to quantitative colony immunoblot assays for bacterial excretion and blood and stools were evaluated for humoral and mucosal immune responses. No clinical symptoms were noted in any group of animals and the vaccine candidates were excreted robustly for 48-72h without significant changes in either the magnitude or duration of excretion when given as a monovalent or as bivalent mixtures. Similarly, immunological interferences were not apparent in the magnitude of humoral and mucosal immune responses observed toward Shigella-specific antigens when monkeys were fed monovalent or bivalent formulations. These results predict that a multivalent live oral vaccine of more than one serotype can have a favorable outcome for protection against shigellosis. 
Suggestion to supplement Shigella flexneri classification scheme with the subserovar Shigella flexneri 4c: phenotypic characteristics of strains.	A new serovar of Shigella flexneri has been isolated with increasing frequency in the USSR. It has the antigenic formula IV:7,8. We suggest that it be incorporated into the classification scheme as S. flexneri subserovar 4c. The 212 strains of this proposed subserovar examined to date display biochemical and serological properties typical of the species, are sensitive to the genus-specific bacteriophage, and cause keratoconjunctivitis in the Sereny test.
Characterization of Shigella flexneri-specific murine monoclonal antibodies by chemically defined glycoconjugates.	Chemically defined glycoconjugates are demonstrated to have considerable potential for selecting hybridoma antibodies directed toward O-antigenic determinants, especially when used in combination with a panel of well-characterized LPS molecules. Monoclonal antibodies specific for the Shigella flexneri O-antigens of serogroup 5b, variants X and Y, were generated after immunization of BALB/c mice with killed bacterial cells, and active hybrids were selected on the basis of ELISA performed with the purified serotype-specific LPS antigen. Subsequent screening with a variety of glycoconjugates, derived from synthetic oligosaccharides and larger structures obtained by phage Sf6/endo-rhamnosidase hydrolysis of purified LPS established a detailed profile of binding characteristics for Shigella flexneri variant Y-specific antibodies. Together with the results of precipitin analysis and heavy chain isotyping experiments, a limited number of antibodies were selected as candidates for detailed studies of the antibody combining site.
Change in phage-sensitivity of Shigella flexneri strains. I. Changes in virulence and phage-sensitivity.	In the course of repeated passaging of virulent Shigella flexneri cultures in liquid media, avirulent variants and variants of reduced virulence appeared. They were easily recognizable by their colonial morphology. The avirulent variants became sensitive to certain phages not lysing the original virulent strains. The change of phage-sensitivity among the variants with no or decreased virulence was significant: chi 2 = 64.25; P less than 0.001. The amplification of phage-sensitivity developed in 15% of the originally avirulent cultures. No association was found between the loss of virulence and a specific phage-sensitivity pattern. In the majority of the cases sensitivity to phage Ms2 developed during the passages, but it was observed in some of the original strains, too. With few exceptions, sensitivity to phage Ms2 was associated with the total or partial degradation of the specific antigen and the antigenic structure detectable by S. flexneri factor sera. These exceptions were cultures with maintained or decreased virulence.
Antigenic variability of Shigella flexneri serovars 1-5.	Data on the genetic basis of the classification of Shigella flexneri serological variants 1-5 are presented. Subserovars "a" are related to monolysogenic variants of the basic lipopolysaccharide (LPS) structure 0 antigen 3,4, "b" to bilysogenic ones. A scheme of their antigenic variability, with regard to loss of one or both prophages is presented. This scheme helps differentiate between antigenic variability and mixed or superinfections. Recent reports confirming our previously published suggestion to exclude serovar 6 (Shigella newcastle) from Shigella flexneri are analyzed. We propose that antigenic variability of S. flexneri 1-5 results from lysogenization of naturally occurring strains. The possibility of consecutive lysogenization of S. flexneri y (-:3,4) by bacteriophages 6 and 7 has been shown, as exemplified by the circulation of a previously unknown subserovar IV:7,8.
Outbreak of Shigella flexneri linked to salad prepared at a central commissary in Michigan.	In August 1992, the Michigan Department of Public Health was notified of a cluster of persons with Shigella flexneri infections, all of whom had eaten at different outlets of a single restaurant chain. The chain prepared many foods at a central kitchen. A matched case-control study to determine risk factors for illness among patrons of the restaurant chain was undertaken. An inspection of the commissary and a review of commissary inspection and employee records were conducted. Of the 46 patients identified, 44 had eaten tossed salad versus 33 of the 71 controls (matched odds ratio = 56.9; 95 percent confidence interval 5.0, 648.1). Improper salad preparation techniques were used, and the salad preparation area had not been inspected in several years. Some salad preparers had been ill shortly before the outbreak but continued to work. The greater use of central kitchens could lead to larger outbreaks of illness related to improper food handling. Raw vegetables are a potential vehicle for transmission of shigellosis. Coordination of all agencies responsible for inspecting commissaries should be assured. Assuring restriction of ill food handlers will require management to take an active role in identification of ill employees and in the development of incentives to report illness.
Evaluation of commercial antisera for Shigella serogrouping.	Shigella serogrouping antisera from six companies (Becton Dickinson, Denka, Difco, Murex, Roach, and Sanofi-Pasteur) intended for the slide agglutination test and those of the Wellcolex Colour Shigella latex agglutination test were evaluated to identify quality products for Shigella identification. Forty-six reference Shigella strains (one for each serotype and species), 50 clinical strains (21 S. flexneri, 21 S. sonnei, 4 S. dysenteriae, 4 S. boydii) representing the most prevalent species and serotypes encountered in Quebec, and 9 non-Shigella strains were tested according to the manufacturers' instructions. A 3+ reaction (> or = 75% agglutination) was considered positive for the slide agglutination tests. Sensitivity varied from 47% (Roach) to 94% (Difco). For the 105 strains tested, accuracy ranged from 53% (Roach) to 91% (Wellcolex). Specificity varied from 97 to 100% for group A antisera, from 96 to 100% for group B antisera, from 88 to 100% for group C antisera, and from 95 to 99% for group D antisera. The costs of reagents required to test one strain varied from $3.50 to $13.20 (in Canadian dollars). In conclusion, Roach reagents proved to be unsatisfactory for Shigella serogrouping. Among those from the remaining companies, the Denka, Difco, and Wellcolex reagents met a performance standard of 90% accuracy.
Immune responses in Vietnamese children after a single dose of the auxotrophic, live Shigella flexneri Y vaccine strain SFL124.	The live, auxotrophic Shigella flexneri vaccine strain SFL124 was given in a single dose of 10(7), 10(8) or 10(9) colony forming units (cfu), respectively, to each of three groups of 10 Vietnamese children aged 9-14 years. The vaccine was well tolerated by all the children without any severe side effects such as diarrhoea or fever being observed. Mild symptoms were reported by five children. Only five children were found by culture to excrete SFL124 but, by PCR, 28 of 30 children were found to excrete the vaccine strain for up to 5 days (mean 2.8 days) with insignificant differences among the groups. Local mucosal immune responses and antibody secreting cell (ASC) responses to S. flexneri lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and invasion plasmid-coded antigens (Ipa) were elicited in the children in a dose-dependent manner. Doses of 10(9) cfu induced most prominent responses, followed by those of 10(8) and 10(7) cfu. The sIgA responses were the highest whereas the ASC were modest. High titres of serum antibodies to Shigella LPS and Ipa were found in all the children before ingestion of the vaccine which elicited increases in serum antibody titres in only a few of them. The immune response patterns seen indicate a booster rather than a primary response and may be a consequence of the endemic nature of shigellosis in Vietnam.
