The aerobactin iron transport system genes in Shigella flexneri are present within a pathogenicity island.	Genes encoding the synthesis and transport of aerobactin, a hydroxamate siderophore associated with increased virulence of enteric bacteria, were mapped within a pathogenicity island in Shigella flexneri. The island, designated SHI-2 for Shigella pathogenicity island 2, was located downstream of selC, the site of insertion of pathogenicity islands in several other enteric pathogens. DNA sequence analysis revealed the presence of multiple insertion sequences upstream and downstream of the aerobactin genes and an integrase gene that was nearly identical to an int gene found in Escherichia coli O157:H7. SHI-2 sequences adjacent to selC were similar to sequences at the junction between selC and pathogenicity islands found in E. coli O157:H7 and in enteropathogenic E. coli, but the junctions between the island and downstream yic genes were variable. SHI-2 also encoded immunity to the normally plasmid-encoded colicins I and V, suggesting a common origin for the aerobactin genes in both S. flexneri and E. coli pColV. Polymerase chain reaction and Southern hybridization data indicate that SHI-2 is present in the same location in Shigella sonnei, but the aerobactin genes are not located within SHI-2 in Shigella boydii or enteroinvasive E. coli. Shigella dysenteriae type 1 strains do not produce aerobactin but do contain sequences downstream of selC that are homologous to SHI-2. The presence of the aerobactin genes on plasmids in E. coli pColV and Salmonella, on a pathogenicity island in S. flexneri and S. sonnei and in a different chromosomal location in S. boydii and some E. coli suggests that these virulence-enhancing genes are mobile, and they may constitute an island within an island in S. flexneri.
The selC-associated SHI-2 pathogenicity island of Shigella flexneri.	Pathogenicity islands are chromosomal gene clusters, often located adjacent to tRNA genes, that encode virulence factors present in pathogenic organisms but absent or sporadically found in related non-pathogenic species. The selC tRNA locus is the site of integration of different pathogenicity islands in uropathogenic Escherichia coli, enterohaemorrhagic E. coli and Salmonella enterica. We show here that the selC locus of Shigella flexneri, the aetiological agent of bacterial dysentery, also contains a pathogenicity island. This pathogenicity island, designated SHI-2 (Shigella island 2), occupies 23.8 kb downstream of selC and contains genes encoding the aerobactin iron acquisition siderophore system, colicin V immunity and several novel proteins. Remnants of multiple mobile genetic elements are present in SHI-2. SHI-2-hybridizing sequences were detected in all S. flexneri strains tested and parts of the island were also found in other Shigella species. SHI-2 may allow Shigella survival in stressful environments, such as those encountered during infection.
Inactivation of DsbA alters the behaviour of Shigella flexneri towards murine and human-derived macrophage-like cells.	The mutants of Shigella flexneri, Sh4 (dsbA::kan) and Sh42 (dsbA33G), behave differently towards murine and human-derived macrophage-like cells in vitro. Sh4 was trapped in the phagocytic vacuoles of the murine J774 cells as evidenced by its colony forming units plus and minus chloroquine exposure in a gentamicin protection assay, and by light and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Sh42, similar to the wild-type M90TS, was able to escape from the vacuoles and kill host cells presumably by inducing apoptosis. In U937 cells, unlike M90TS that was free in the cytosol, both Sh4 and Sh42 grew poorly. TEM revealed that Sh4 and Sh42 were trapped within the U937 phagocytic vacuoles. Furthermore, the two mutants induced different patterns of interleukin-1beta and tumour necrosis factor-alpha expression, which might explain why they possess different immunogenic properties in vivo.
Controlled expression in Klebsiella pneumoniae and Shigella flexneri using a bacteriophage P1-derived C1-regulated promoter system.	The utility of promoters regulated by the bacteriophage P1 temperature-sensitive C1 repressor was examined in Shigella flexneri and Klebsiella pneumoniae. Promoters carrying C1 operator sites driving LacZ expression had induction/repression ratios of up to 240-fold in S. flexneri and up to 50-fold in K. pneumoniae. The promoters exhibited remarkably low basal expression, demonstrated modulation by temperature, and showed rapid induction. This system will provide a new opportunity for controlled gene expression in enteric gram-negative bacteria.
Pathoadaptive mutations that enhance virulence: genetic organization of the cadA regions of Shigella spp.	Pathoadaptive mutations improve the fitness of pathogenic species by modification of traits that interfere with factors (virulence and ancestral) required for survival in host tissues. A demonstrated pathoadaptive mutation is the loss of lysine decarboxylase (LDC) expression in Shigella species that have evolved from LDC-expressing Escherichia coli. Previous studies demonstrated that the product of LDC activity, cadaverine, blocks the action of Shigella enterotoxins and that the gene encoding LDC, cadA, was abolished by large chromosomal deletions in each Shigella species. To better understand the nature and evolution of these pathoadaptive mutations, remnants of the cad region were sequenced from the four Shigella species. These analyses reveal novel gene arrangements in this region of the pathogens' chromosomes. Insertion sequences, a phage genome, and/or loci from different positions on the ancestral E. coli chromosome displaced the cadA locus to form distinct genetic linkages that are unique to each Shigella species. Hybridization studies, using an E. coli K-12 microarray, indicated that the genes displaced to form the novel linkages still remain in the Shigella genomes. None of these novel gene arrangements were observed in representatives of all E. coli phylogenies. Collectively, these observations indicate that inactivation of the cadA antivirulence gene occurred independently in each Shigella species. The convergent evolution of these pathoadaptive mutations demonstrates that, following evolution from commensal E. coli, strong pressures in host tissues selected Shigella clones with increased fitness and virulence through the loss of an ancestral trait (LDC). These observations strongly support the role of pathoadaptive mutation as an important pathway in the evolution of pathogenic organisms.
In vitro DNA-binding properties of VirB, the Shigella flexneri virulence regulatory protein.	The DNA-binding activity of the Shigella flexneri VirB transcription factor was studied in vitro. The protein was found to bind non-specifically to DNA, but showed preferential binding to VirB-dependent promoter sequences. DNA binding was contingent on the presence of an intact helix-turn-helix motif. While high molecular mass protein-DNA complexes were formed in both specific and non-specific interactions with DNA, mutant derivatives of VirB lacking a leucine zipper domain or a carboxyl-terminal-located oligomerisation domain formed discrete complexes, indicating that an ability to oligomerise on DNA was responsible for the formation of high molecular mass complexes by the wild-type protein.
The actin-based motility defect of a Shigella flexneri rmlD rough LPS mutant is not due to loss of IcsA polarity.	Shigella flexneri requires the outer membrane protein IcsA(VirG) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) for efficient actin-based motility (ABM) within mammalian cells which is essential for virulence. Wild type strains of S. flexneri 2a such as 2457T have smooth LPS whose O antigen (Oag) chains have two modal lengths and IcsA predominantly located at one pole on their cell surface. In contrast, rough LPS mutants lack Oag chains, have IcsA on lateral and polar regions of the cell surface, and are defective for ABM. In this study we directly compared the phenotype of a S. flexneri producing non-IcsP/SopA cleavable IcsA (IcsA*) with that of a rough LPS mutant. IcsA* was located on lateral and polar regions of smooth LPS bacteria, and was fully functional in ABM assays (HeLa cell monolayer plaque and F-actin comet tail formation) which contrasts with the R-LPS phenotype. This indicates that loss of polar IcsA localisation in R-LPS mutants is unrelated to their ABM defect, and suggests that Oag may directly contribute to IcsA-mediated ABM.
A DNA adenine methylase mutant of Shigella flexneri shows no significant attenuation of virulence.	Mutants of Salmonella defective in DNA adenine methylase (dam) have been reported to be attenuated for virulence and to provide protective immunity when used as vaccine strains. To determine whether these observations could be extended to Shigella, a dam mutant of Shigella flexneri 2a was characterized and examined for the role of dam in pathogenesis. The Shigella dam mutant showed some unique characteristics; however, it retained virulence in vivo as well as in vitro. The mutant invaded cultured L2 monolayer cells as efficiently as the wild-type parent, but its intracellular growth was suppressed up to 7 h post-invasion. Furthermore, the invading dam mutant formed smaller plaques in cell monolayers compared to the parent strain. However, the mutant produced keratoconjunctivitis in the Sereny test in guinea pigs only slightly more slowly than the wild-type. While the effect of the dam mutation on virulence was modest, the rate of spontaneous mutation in the dam mutant was 1000-fold greater compared with the wild-type. The virulence and high mutability displayed by the dam mutant of Sh. flexneri suggest that a general anti-bacterial pathogen vaccine strategy based on mutations in dam needs to be re-evaluated.
Mauve: multiple alignment of conserved genomic sequence with rearrangements.	As genomes evolve, they undergo large-scale evolutionary processes that present a challenge to sequence comparison not posed by short sequences. Recombination causes frequent genome rearrangements, horizontal transfer introduces new sequences into bacterial chromosomes, and deletions remove segments of the genome. Consequently, each genome is a mosaic of unique lineage-specific segments, regions shared with a subset of other genomes and segments conserved among all the genomes under consideration. Furthermore, the linear order of these segments may be shuffled among genomes. We present methods for identification and alignment of conserved genomic DNA in the presence of rearrangements and horizontal transfer. Our methods have been implemented in a software package called Mauve. Mauve has been applied to align nine enterobacterial genomes and to determine global rearrangement structure in three mammalian genomes. We have evaluated the quality of Mauve alignments and drawn comparison to other methods through extensive simulations of genome evolution.
Mucosal immunization with attenuated Shigella flexneri harboring an influenza hemagglutinin DNA vaccine protects mice against a lethal influenza challenge.	Mucosal surfaces are important for the induction of immunity against influenza virus. In a murine intranasal immunization model, we demonstrated that the attenuated Shigella flexneri Deltaasd strain 15D, carrying a DNA construct encoding the influenza virus hemagglutinin (HA), induces protective immunity against a lethal respiratory challenge with influenza A/WSN/33. Influenza virus-specific IFN-gamma T cells were detected among splenocytes, and anti-HA IgG was detected in serum post-immunization, albeit at low levels. Following influenza virus challenge, an accelerated anti-HA IgA antibody response was detected in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) washings from mice vaccinated with attenuated shigella containing the HA construct. These results suggest that S. flexneri Deltaasd strain 15D is a promising vector for mucosal DNA vaccine immunization against influenza virus and other mucosal pathogens.
Detection of approximately 10(3) copies of DNA by an electrochemical enzyme-amplified sandwich assay with ambient O(2) as the substrate.	The electrochemical sandwich-type, enzyme-amplified assay of Zhang, Kim, and Heller (Anal. Chem. 2003, 75, 3267-3269) was simplified by replacing the amplifying horseradish peroxidase with bilirubin oxidase (BOD). BOD catalyzes the reduction of ambient O(2) to water and obviates the need for adding H(2)O(2). Femtomolar (10(-)(15) M) concentrations of DNA were detected at a 10-microm-diameter tip of a carbon fiber electrode. Correspondingly, a few thousand copies of DNA were detected in approximately 5-microL samples. The sandwich is formed in an electron-conducting redox hydrogel, to the polymer of which a DNA capture sequence is bound. Capture of the analyte DNA and its hybridization with a BOD-labeled complementary DNA sequence, electrically connects the BOD label to the electron-conducting redox polymer, which is in electrical contact with the electrode. Placing the BOD in contact with the redox polymer thus converts the noncatalytic base layer into a catalyst for the electroreduction of O(2) to water at +0.12 V (vs Ag/AgCl) (Figure 1). In an exemplary assay, approximately 3000 copies of the iron transporting sequence of the sit gene of Shigella flexneri were detected without PCR amplification.
A probabilistic measure for alignment-free sequence comparison.	Alignment-free sequence comparison methods are still in the early stages of development compared to those of alignment-based sequence analysis. In this paper, we introduce a probabilistic measure of similarity between two biological sequences without alignment. The method is based on the concept of comparing the similarity/dissimilarity between two constructed Markov models.
Transcriptional adaptation of Shigella flexneri during infection of macrophages and epithelial cells: insights into the strategies of a cytosolic bacterial pathogen.	Shigella flexneri, the etiologic agent of bacillary dysentery, invades epithelial cells as well as macrophages and dendritic cells and escapes into the cytosol soon after invasion. Dissection of the global gene expression profile of the bacterium in its intracellular niche is essential to fully understand the biology of Shigella infection. We have determined the complete gene expression profiles for S. flexneri infecting human epithelial HeLa cells and human macrophage-like U937 cells. Approximately one quarter of the S. flexneri genes showed significant transcriptional adaptation during infection; 929 and 1,060 genes were up- or down-regulated within HeLa cells and U937 cells, respectively. The key S. flexneri virulence genes, ipa-mxi-spa and icsA, were drastically down-regulated during intracellular growth. This theme seems to be common in bacterial infection, because the Ipa-Mxi-Spa-like type III secretion systems were also down-regulated during mammalian cell infection by Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium and Escherichia coli O157. The bacteria experienced restricted levels of iron, magnesium, and phosphate in both host cell types, as shown by up-regulation of the sitABCD system, the mgtA gene, and genes of the phoBR regulon. Interestingly, ydeO and other acid-induced genes were up-regulated only in U937 cells and not in HeLa cells, suggesting that the cytosol of U937 cells is acidic. Comparison with the gene expression of intracellular Salmonella serovar Typhimurium, which resides within the Salmonella-containing vacuole, indicated that S. flexneri is exposed to oxidative stress in U937 cells. This work will facilitate functional studies of hundreds of novel intracellularly regulated genes that may be important for the survival and growth strategies of Shigella in the human host.
Construction and characterization of bivalent Shigella flexneri 2a vaccine strains SC608(pCFAI) and SC608(pCFAI/LTB) that express antigens from enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli.	An invasive strain of Shigella flexneri 2a (SC608) has been developed as a vector for the expression and delivery of heterologous antigens. SC608 is an aspartate semialdehyde dehydrogenase (asd) derivative of SC602 (icsA iuc), a well-characterized live attenuated vaccine strain which has undergone several clinical trials in human volunteers. When administered orally at a single 10(4) (CFU) dose, SC602 is both immunogenic and efficacious against shigellosis. Using asd-based plasmid vectors, we designed SC608 to express the enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) fimbrial subunit CfaB (CFA/I structural subunit) alone or in combination with the E. coli B subunit of heat-labile enterotoxin (LTB). The expression of each heterologous protein in SC608 was verified by immunoblot analysis. Each strain was comparable to the parent strain, SC602, in a HeLa cell invasion assay. After intranasal immunizations of guinea pigs, serum and mucosal immune responses were detected against both Shigella lipopolysaccharide and heterologous ETEC antigens by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and ELISPOT analysis. All immunized animals were subsequently protected against a challenge with wild-type S. flexneri 2a in a keratoconjunctivitis Sereny test. Serum antibodies generated against LTB and CfaB demonstrated antitoxin and agglutination activities, respectively. These results suggest that CfaB and LTB expressed in SC608 retain important conformational epitopes that are required for the generation of antibodies that have functional activities. These initial experiments demonstrate that a fully invasive Shigella vaccine strain can be engineered to deliver antigens from other diarrheal pathogens.
Role of the Pst system in plaque formation by the intracellular pathogen Shigella flexneri.	In response to the host cell environment, the intracellular pathogen Shigella flexneri induces the expression of numerous genes, including those in the pst operon which is predicted to encode a high-affinity phosphate acquisition system that is expressed under reduced phosphate conditions. An S. flexneri pst mutant forms smaller plaques in Henle cell monolayers than does the parental strain. This mutant exhibited normal production and localization of the S. flexneri IcsA protein. The pst mutant had the same growth rate as the parental strain in both phosphate-reduced and phosphate-replete media in vitro and during the first 3 h of growth in Henle cells in vivo. During growth in phosphate-replete media, the PhoB regulon was constitutively expressed in the pst mutant but not the parental strain. This suggested that the inability of the S. flexneri pst mutant to form wild-type plaques in Henle cell monolayers may be due to aberrant expression of the PhoB regulon. A mutation in phoB was constructed in the S. flexneri pst mutant, and the phoB mutation suppressed the small plaque phenotype of the pst mutant. Additionally, a specific mutation (R220Q) was constructed in the pstA gene of the pst operon that was predicted to eliminate Pst-mediated phosphate transport but allow normal PhoB-regulated gene expression, based on the phenotype of an Escherichia coli strain harboring the same mutation. Addition of this pstA(R220Q) mutation to a S. flexneri pst mutant, as part of the pst operon, restored normal plaque formation and regulation of phoA expression.
IpaD of Shigella flexneri is independently required for regulation of Ipa protein secretion and efficient insertion of IpaB and IpaC into host membranes.	Shigella flexneri causes human dysentery after invading the cells of the colonic epithelium. The best-studied effectors of Shigella entry into colonocytes are the invasion plasmid antigens IpaC and IpaB. These proteins are exported via a type III secretion system (TTSS) to form a pore in the host membrane that may allow the translocation of other effectors into the host cytoplasm. TTSS-mediated secretion of IpaD is also required for translocation pore formation, bacterial invasion, and virulence, but the mechanistic role of this protein is unclear. IpaD is also known to be involved in controlling Ipa protein secretion, but here it is shown that this activity can be separated from its requirement for cellular invasion. Amino acids 40 to 120 of IpaD are not essential for IpaD-dependent invasion; however, deletions in this region still lead to constitutive IpaB/IpaC secretion. Meanwhile, a central deletion causes only a partial loss of control of Ipa secretion but completely eliminates IpaD's invasion function, indicating that IpaD's role in invasion is not a direct outcome of its ability to control Ipa secretion. As shigellae expressing ipaD N-terminal deletion mutations have reduced contact-mediated hemolysis activity and are less efficient at introducing IpaB and IpaC into erythrocyte membranes, it is possible that IpaD is responsible for insertion of IpaB/IpaC pores into target cell membranes. While efficient insertion of IpaB/IpaC pores is needed for optimal invasion efficiency, it may be especially important for Ipa-dependent membrane disruption and thus for efficient vacuolar escape and intercellular spread.
IpaB of Shigella flexneri causes entry into epithelial cells and escape from the phagocytic vacuole.	By creating mutations within the Shigella flexneri ipaB gene, we have demonstrated that the invasion of epithelial cells is a three-step process encompassing adhesion on the cell surface, entry and lysis of the phagocytic vacuole allowing subsequent access to the cytoplasm. SC403, an insertion mutant which lacks expression of IpaB but still expresses downstream genes, has been particularly studied. It is non-invasive, does not elicit actin polymerization, but binds to HeLa cells indicating that an adhesion step occurs immediately prior to the entry process. The consequence of the inactivation of ipaB on the intracellular behaviour of S.flexneri was investigated using the macrophage cell line J774. SC403 was unable to lyse the phagocytic vacuole; moreover, this strain did not display the contact mediated haemolytic activity characteristics of Shigella. In addition to being a major component of the invasion complex, IpaB acts as a membrane-lysing toxin enabling escape to the cytoplasmic compartment.
A secreted anti-activator, OspD1, and its chaperone, Spa15, are involved in the control of transcription by the type III secretion apparatus activity in Shigella flexneri.	Bacteria of Shigella spp. are responsible for shigellosis in humans and use a type III secretion (TTS) system to enter epithelial cells and trigger apoptosis in macrophages. Transit of translocator and effector proteins through the TTS apparatus is activated upon contact of bacteria with host cells. Transcription of approximately 15 genes encoding effectors is regulated by the TTS apparatus activity and controlled by MxiE, an AraC family activator, and its coactivator IpgC, the chaperone of IpaB and IpaC translocators. Using a genetic screen, we identified ospD1 as a gene whose product negatively controls expression of genes regulated by secretion activity. OspD1 associates with the chaperone Spa15 and the activator MxiE and acts as an anti-activator until it is secreted. The mechanism regulating transcription in response to secretion activity involves an activator (MxiE), an anti-activator (OspD1), a co-anti-activator (Spa15), a coactivator (IpgC) and two anti-coactivators (IpaB and IpaC) whose alternative and mutually exclusive interactions are controlled by the duration of the TTS apparatus activity.
A directed screen for chlamydial proteins secreted by a type III mechanism identifies a translocated protein and numerous other new candidates.	Chlamydiae are strict intracellular parasites that induce their internalization upon contact with the host cell and grow inside an intracellular compartment called an inclusion. They possess a type III secretion (TTS) apparatus, which allows for the translocation of specific proteins in the host cell cytosol. In particular, chlamydial proteins of the Inc family are secreted to the inclusion membrane by a TTS mechanism; other TTS substrates are mostly unknown. Using a secretion assay based on the recognition of TTS signals in Shigella flexneri, we searched for TTS signals in the proteins of unknown function, conserved between three different chlamydial species, Chlamydia pneumoniae, C. trachomatis and C. caviae. We identified 24 new candidate proteins which did not belong to the Inc family. Four of these proteins were also secreted as full-length proteins by a TTS mechanism in S. flexneri, indicating that their translocation does not require other chlamydial proteins. One of these proteins was detected in the cytosol of infected cells using specific antibodies, directly demonstrating that it is translocated in the host cell during bacterial proliferation. More generally, this work represents the first directed search for TTS effectors not based on genetic information or sequence similarity. It reveals the abundance of proteins secreted in the host cell by chlamydiae.
Live oral auxotrophic Shigella flexneri SFL124 vaccine with a deleted aroD gene: characterization and monkey protection studies.	Shigella flexneri SFL124, with a deletion encompassing all, or nearly all, of the coding sequence of gene aroD was obtained after selection on a fusaric acid medium supplemented with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid for tetracycline-sensitive mutants of S. flexneri SFL114 which is an aroD::Tn10 transductant. Two of 20 tetracycline-sensitive mutants tested in colony hybridization with a 32P-labelled DNA probe of approximately 1400 base pairs (comprising all except the 75 N-terminal base pairs of the coding region of gene aroD) did not hybridize. The selected mutant SFL124 is Congo-red positive, invades and shows a limited multiplication in HeLa cells and does not cause keratoconjunctivitis in guinea-pigs. It is well tolerated by Macaca fascicularis monkeys, is excreted for up to 4 days, elicits a slight inflammatory reaction in the colonic mucosa, stimulates significant secretory IgA responses in the intestine and serum IgA and IgG responses against the S. flexneri cell envelope lipopolysaccharide. The immune response conferred a complete protection against challenge with 1 x 10(11) (equivalent to a 100 LD50 dose) live S. flexneri SFL1.
Safety and immunogenicity of the live oral auxotrophic Shigella flexneri SFL124 in volunteers.	The live, aromatic dependent Shigella flexneri Y vaccine strain SFL124, with a deleted aroD gene, was tested for safety and immunogenicity in 21 healthy adult volunteers. A single dose of 2 x 10(9) live bacteria was given orally to ten volunteers, whereas 11 received three doses every other day. The vaccine was excreted for 4.2 days and was well tolerated by 90.5% of the vaccinees. Only 2 of 21 (9.5%) after the first dose had a self-limiting diarrhoea lasting 1 day; of volunteers given one dose only 3 of 10 showed anti-lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and anti-invasion plasmid coded antigen (Ipa) responses in serum. A faecal antibody response to LPS and Ipa was seen in six and three persons, respectively. Volunteers given three doses reacted with serum anti-LPS (9/11) and anti-Ipa (5/11) antibody responses. In stool, anti-LPS and anti-Ipa responses were detected in nine and eight volunteers, respectively. A booster dose of 2 x 10(9) bacteria given to six volunteers in the three-dose group 9-10 months later elicited high stool sIgA responses, indicating a strong mucosal memory, and was accompanied by a short excretion period of SFL124 (1.8 versus 4.2 days, p less than 0.05). The vaccination also elicited antibody-secreting cell (ASC) responses against LPS in peripheral blood: the three doses of the vaccine resulted in a stronger response than did the single dose, while the booster dose elicited only a limited ASC response. Volunteers previously exposed to shigellae exhibited stronger anti-Ipa responses in serum and stool suggestive of an immunological memory to the Ipa. The results indicate that SFL124 is a safe live vaccine strain inducing specific immune responses against LPS and Ipa with a mucosal immune memory lasting for at least 9 months.
Structural mimicry for vinculin activation by IpaA, a virulence factor of Shigella flexneri.	Invasion of epithelial cells by Shigella flexneri is characterized by cytoskeletal rearrangements of the host cell membrane, promoting internalization of the bacterium. The bacterial effector IpaA is injected into the epithelial cell by a type III secretion apparatus and recruits vinculin to regulate actin polymerization at the site of entry. We analysed the complex formed between a carboxy-terminal fragment of IpaA (IpaA(560-633)) and the vinculin D1 domain (VD1), both in crystals and in solution. We present evidence that IpaA(560-633) has two alpha-helical vinculin-binding sites that simultaneously bind two VD1 molecules. The interaction of IpaA(560-633) with VD1 is highly similar to the interaction of the endogenous, eukaryotic proteins talin and alpha-actinin with VD1, showing that Shigella uses a structural mimicry strategy to activate vinculin.
IpaD localizes to the tip of the type III secretion system needle of Shigella flexneri.	Shigella flexneri, the causative agent of shigellosis, is a gram-negative bacterial pathogen that initiates infection by invading cells within the colonic epithelium. Contact with host cell surfaces induces a rapid burst of protein secretion via the Shigella type III secretion system (TTSS). The first proteins secreted are IpaD, IpaB, and IpaC, with IpaB and IpaC being inserted into the host cell membrane to form a pore for translocating late effectors into the target cell cytoplasm. The resulting pathogen-host cross talk results in localized actin polymerization, membrane ruffling, and, ultimately, pathogen entry. IpaD is essential for host cell invasion, but its role in this process is just now coming to light. IpaD is a multifunctional protein that controls the secretion and presentation of IpaB and IpaC at the pathogen-host interface. We show here that antibodies recognizing the surface-exposed N terminus of IpaD neutralize Shigella's ability to promote pore formation in erythrocyte membranes. We further show that MxiH and IpaD colocalize on the bacterial surface. When TTSS needles were sheared from the Shigella surface, IpaD was found at only the needle tips. Consistent with this, IpaD localized to the exposed tips of needles that were still attached to the bacterium. Molecular analyses then showed that the IpaD C terminus is required for this surface localization and function. Furthermore, mutations that prevent IpaD surface localization also eliminate all IpaD-related functions. Thus, this study demonstrates that IpaD localizes to the TTSA needle tip, where it functions to control the secretion and proper insertion of translocators into host cell membranes.
Role and regulation of the Shigella flexneri sit and MntH systems.	Shigella flexneri possesses at least two putative high-affinity manganese acquisition systems, SitABCD and MntH. Mutations in the genes encoding the components of both of these systems were constructed in S. flexneri. The sitA mntH mutant showed reduced growth, relative to the wild type, in Luria broth (L broth) containing the divalent metal chelator ethylene diamino-o-dihydroxyphenyl acetic acid, and the addition of either iron or manganese restored growth to the level of the wild-type strain. Although the sitA mntH mutant was not defective in surviving exposure to superoxide generators, it was defective in surviving exposure to hydrogen peroxide. The sitA mntH mutant formed wild-type plaques on Henle cell monolayers but had a reduced ability to survive in activated macrophage lines. Expression of the S. flexneri sit and mntH promoters was higher when Shigella was in Henle cells than when it was in L broth. Expression of both the sit and mntH promoters was repressed by either iron or manganese, and this repression was partially dependent upon Fur and MntR, respectively. The mntH promoter, but not the sit promoter, exhibited OxyR-dependent induction in the presence of hydrogen peroxide.
An O antigen can interfere with the function of the Yersinia pseudotuberculosis invasin protein.	Escherichia coli strains harbouring the Yersinia pseudotuberculosis inv gene are able to enter cultured mammalial cells. We show here that this property is not shared by all enteric bacteria, since Shigella flexneri 2a cured of its virulence-associated plasmid and harbouring the inv gene is unable to enter mammalian cells efficiently. Mapping studies showed that the region of the chromosome responsible for this phenotype includes rfaB, a locus involved in the production of O antigen. S. flexneri 2a strains that express O antigen were unable to enter mammalian cells, even though invasin was efficiently expressed and localized, showing that this structure interferes with invasin activity. The O antigen either masks invasin or sterically hinders the ability of the mammalian cell receptor to bind this protein.
H-NS antagonism in Shigella flexneri by VirB, a virulence gene transcription regulator that is closely related to plasmid partition factors.	The VirB protein of Shigella flexneri is a positive regulator of the major virulence operons of this enteroinvasive intracellular pathogen. VirB resembles no other transcription factor but is strongly homologous to plasmid partition proteins. We found that the binding of the VirB protein to the promoter region of the icsB virulence gene induced hypersensitivity to cleavage by DNase I over a region to which the H-NS repressor protein binds and completely abolished the protection of this sequence from DNase I by H-NS. In the absence of H-NS, the VirB protein had no additive effect on the ability of the icsB promoter to form an open transcription complex, indicating that VirB is not involved in the recruitment of RNA polymerase to the promoter or in open complex formation. Similarly, VirB did not stimulate promoter function in an in vitro transcription assay but acted as an antagonist of H-NS-mediated repression. A sequence located upstream of the icsB promoter and related to cis-acting elements involved in plasmid partitioning was required for promoter derepression by VirB. Alterations to one heptameric motif within this DNA sequence attenuated VirB binding and derepression of icsB transcription.
Shigella flexneri inhibits staurosporine-induced apoptosis in epithelial cells.	Shigella flexneri is a facultative intracellular organism that causes bacillary dysentery. The Shigella IpaB protein activates caspase 1 in macrophages, which eventually leads to apoptosis. In contrast, epithelial cells infected with Shigella undergo a stress response but do not die. Therefore, the objective of this study was to determine if Shigella has the ability to inhibit apoptosis in epithelial cells. A modified gentamicin protection assay was used to investigate if HeLa cells infected with S. flexneri are able to resist the induction of apoptosis following treatment with 4 microM of staurosporine. Nuclear staining and immunofluorescence revealed that infected cells remained healthy while uninfected cells appeared apoptotic. Only uninfected cells had detectable levels of activated caspase 3 upon immunofluorescence, and this was verified by Western blot analysis. Despite interfering with caspase 3 activation, Shigella-infected cells treated with staurosporine did have cytochrome c release and caspase 9 activation, indicating that Shigella protects epithelial cells from apoptosis by inhibiting caspase 3 activation. Analysis of S. flexneri mutants showed that invasion and a functional type III secretion system were required to block apoptosis. In addition, a mutant with a deletion in mxiE, which encodes a transcriptional activator for genes induced intracellularly, failed to inhibit apoptosis. Therefore, protection of epithelial cells from apoptosis by S. flexneri is regulated by one or more of the bacterial genes under the control of mxiE. We believe that S. flexneri, like other pathogens, inhibits apoptosis in epithelial cells but causes apoptosis in macrophages to ensure survival inside the host.
The type III secretion system needle tip complex mediates host cell sensing and translocon insertion.	Type III secretion systems (T3SSs) are essential virulence determinants of many Gram-negative bacterial pathogens. The Shigella T3SS consists of a cytoplasmic bulb, a transmembrane region and a hollow 'needle' protruding from the bacterial surface. Physical contact with host cells initiates secretion and leads to assembly of a pore, formed by IpaB and IpaC, in the host cell membrane, through which proteins that facilitate host cell invasion are translocated. As the needle is implicated in host cell sensing and secretion regulation, its tip should contain components that initiate host cell contact. Through biochemical and immunological studies of wild-type and mutant Shigella T3SS needles, we reveal tip complexes of differing compositions and functional states, which appear to represent the molecular events surrounding host cell sensing and pore formation. Our studies indicate that the interaction between IpaB and IpaD at needle tips is key to host cell sensing, orchestration of IpaC secretion and its subsequent assembly at needle tips. This allows insertion into the host cell membrane of a translocation pore that is continuous with the needle.
Molecular mimickry between HLA B27 and Yersinia, Salmonella, Shigella and Klebsiella within the same region of HLA alpha 1-helix.	Two new examples of amino acid homology between HLA B27 and microbes triggering HLA B27-associated diseases are described. An outer membrane protein YadA (Yersinia adhesin, previously called Yop1) of Yersinia enterocolitica and Y. pseudotuberculosis shares a linear tetrapeptide with HLA B27. A cationic outer membrane protein OmpH of Salmonella typhimurium shares homology with five amino acids of HLA B27 in a non-linear fashion. The four amino acids of YadA are also notably included in the hexapeptide identical between Klebsiella pneumoniae nitrogenase and HLA B27, and three of them occur in the pentapeptide shared by a Shigella flexneri protein and HLA B27. Antibodies against synthetic peptides including HLA B27 homologues sequences of YadA and OmpH were observed in one-third of the patients with HLA B27 associated diseases. Antibodies were directed against a flanking sequence next to the amino acid sequences shared by arthritis-triggering microbes and HLA B27. The area of identity in each example of this molecular mimicry (Yersinia, Salmonella, Shigella and Klebsiella) is located in the same place on the HLA B27 molecule: between amino acids 70 to 78 in the variable region of alpha 1-helix. This area of HLA B27 molecule includes sites predicted to be important for binding processed antigens.
Virulence plasmids of enteroinvasive Escherichia coli and Shigella flexneri integrate into a specific site on the host chromosome: integration greatly reduces expression of plasmid-carried virulence genes.	The ability of enteroinvasive Escherichia coli and Shigella flexneri to cause disease depends on the presence of a large virulence plasmid (pINV). In this report we show that pHN280, the pINV of the O135:K-:H- enteroivasive strain E. coli HN280, and pWR100, the pINV of S. flexneri serotype 5 strain M90T, are able to integrate into a specific site on the host chromosome. pINV-integrated HN280 and M90T strains required methionine (Met-) to grow in minimal medium, were noninvasive, did not produce contact-mediated hemolysin, and had lost the ability to bind Congo red (Crb-) at 37 degrees C. Immunoblots of whole bacterial extracts from pHN280-integrated HN280 derivatives revealed that integration severely reduced the expression of ipa and virG (icsA) plasmid genes. Met- HN280 and M90T derivative strains spontaneously generated Met+ revertants that either contained excised forms of pINV or had lost pINV. Restriction analysis of excised pINVs showed that they either were virtually identical to parental pINVs (precise excision) or had suffered some deletion (imprecise excision). Precisely excised pINVs expressed the full pattern of virulence, whereas imprecisely excised pINVs were always Crb- and noninvasive. The revertion to Met+ was shown to be recA dependent, indicating that homologous plasmid and chromosomal DNA sequences are involved in the integration-excision process. The maintainance of pINV through integration and downregulation of its virulence genes may represent an advantageous mechanism for enteroinvasive bacteria, particularly when they are outside host cells and/or have to face adverse environmental conditions.
Osmoregulated periplasmic glucans synthesis gene family of Shigella  flexneri.	Osmoregulated periplasmic glucans (OPGs) of food- and water-borne enteropathogen Shigella flexneri were characterized. OPGs were composed of 100% glucose with 2-linked glucose as the most abundant residue with terminal glucose, 2-linked and 2,6-linked glucose also present in high quantities. Most dominant backbone polymer chain length was seven glucose residues. Individual genes from the opg gene family comprising of a bicistronic operon opgGH, opgB, opgC and opgD were mutagenized to study their effect on OPGs synthesis, growth in hypo-osmotic media and ability to invade HeLa cells. Mutation in opgG and opgH abolished OPGs biosynthesis, and mutants experienced longer lag time to initiate growth in hypo-osmotic media. Longer lag times to initiate growth in hypo-osmotic media were also observed for opgC and opgD mutants but not for opgB mutant. All opg mutants were able to infect HeLa cells, and abolition of OPGs synthesis did not affect actin polymerization or plaque formation. Ability to synthesize OPGs was beneficial to bacteria in order to initiate growth under low osmolarity conditions, in vitro mammalian cell invasion assays, however, could not discriminate whether OPGs were required for basic aspect of Shigella virulence.
Construction of aromatic dependent Shigella flexneri 2a live vaccine candidate strains: deletion mutations in the aroA and the aroD genes.	Live Shigella flexneri 2a vaccine candidate strains with deletion mutations in the aro genes were constructed. Tn10-generated auxotrophic mutations were transduced from Escherichia coli to S. flexneri 2a with bacteriophage P1CmCts. The tetracycline-sensitive derivatives of Tn10 mutants obtained were selected on Bochner's medium and checked by DNA-DNA hybridization using aroA and aroD gene specific probes. The vaccine candidate strains were tested to assess the efficacy of protection in guinea-pig conjunctival epithelia (Sereny test). The strains did not cause keratoconjunctivitis and exhibited significant protection in the challenge experiments. A candidate vaccine strain (delta aroD) showed 100% protection against 10(7) c.f.u. of wild type strain in the immunized guinea-pigs.
Two novel virulence loci, mxiA and mxiB, in Shigella flexneri 2a facilitate excretion of invasion plasmid antigens.	A bank of over 4,200 lacZ protein fusions in Shigella flexneri 2a was screened for fusions to temperature-regulated promoters. One mutant, BS260, was completely noninvasive on HeLa cells and mapped to a region on the 220-kb virulence plasmid in which we had previously localized several avirulent temperature-regulated operon fusions (A.E. Hromockyj and A.T. Maurelli, Infect. Immun. 57:2963-2970, 1989). The phenotype of BS260 was similar to that of the previously identified mxi (membrane expression of invasion plasmid antigens) mutants, since it made wild-type intracellular levels of the invasion plasmid antigens (Ipa) but was deficient in the surface expression of IpaB and IpaC. Six kilobases of DNA upstream of the BS260 fusion end joint were cloned, but no temperature-regulated promoter was found, whereas the fusion end joint clone of the noninvasive mxi operon fusion mutant BS226 contained a temperature-regulated promoter. The locus defined by BS260 was designated mxiA, and that defined by BS226 was designated mxiB. Closer analysis of the mxiA and mxiB phenotypes by a cell-free enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay revealed that the mutants failed to excrete IpaB and IpaC into the culture medium, whereas wild-type cells actively released these antigens. Excretion of the ipa polypeptides from wild-type bacteria was confirmed by Western blot analysis of culture supernatants. Protease protection experiments revealed that wild-type S. flexneri 2a actually had much lower levels of surface-exposed IpaB and IpaC relative to those in the total antigen pool. In addition, examination of cellular fractions showed that, although there was no IpaB or IpaC in the outer membrane of BS260 and BS226, the antigens did accumulate in the cytoplasmic membrane. A 76-kDa temperature-regulated polypeptide in wild-type S. flexneri was identified as the putative mxiA gene product. These results strongly suggest that IpaB and IpaC represent truly excreted proteins of S. flexneri and that the mxiA and mxiB loci on the plasmid code for accessory proteins required to facilitate their export through the bacterial outer membrane. These data also suggest that mxiA is part of an operon that specifies additional mxi genes. The products of this operon may constitute a unique multicomponent protein secretion apparatus involved in the transport of Shigella virulence determinants.
An auxotrophic live oral Shigella flexneri vaccine: development and testing.	Through transduction, a wild-type strain of Shigella flexneri serotype Y (SFL1) was rendered auxotrophic and dependent on aromatic metabolites that are not available in mammalian tissues. Monkeys that were orally vaccinated with 10(11) bacteria of the transductant strain SFL114 remained healthy when challenged with 10(11) bacteria of wild-type strains of S. flexneri serotypes Y, 1b, and 2a. The safety and immunogenicity of SFL114 were next studied in volunteers who were given either 10(9) or 10(10) SFL114 bacteria orally. Mild intestinal discomfort that lasted for 1-2 days was reported by three (12%) of 25 volunteers given 10(9) live SFL114 bacteria and by 13 (54%) of 24 volunteers given 10(10) live SFL114 bacteria. A local intestinal secretory IgA response to the S. flexneri O-antigen was recorded. The in vitro and in vivo results suggest that the aroD transductant SFL114 possesses properties that are desirable in an oral live candidate vaccine.
The Shigella flexneri type three secretion system effector IpgD inhibits T cell migration by manipulating host phosphoinositide metabolism.	Shigella, the Gram-negative enteroinvasive bacterium that causes shigellosis, relies on its type III secretion system (TTSS) and injected effectors to modulate host cell functions. However, consequences of the interaction between Shigella and lymphocytes have not been investigated. We show that Shigella invades activated human CD4(+) T lymphocytes. Invasion requires a functional TTSS and results in inhibition of chemokine-induced T cell migration, an effect mediated by the TTSS effector IpgD, a phosphoinositide 4-phosphatase. Remarkably, IpgD injection into bystander T cells can occur in the absence of cell invasion. Upon IpgD-mediated hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP(2)), the pool of PIP(2) at the plasma membrane is reduced, leading to dephosphorylation of the ERM proteins and their inability to relocalize at one T cell pole upon chemokine stimulus, likely affecting the formation of the polarized edge required for cell migration. These results reveal a bacterial TTSS effector-mediated strategy to impair T cell function.
p62 and NDP52 proteins target intracytosolic Shigella and Listeria to different autophagy pathways.	Autophagy is an important mechanism of innate immune defense. We have recently shown that autophagy components are recruited with septins, a new and increasingly characterized cytoskeleton component, to intracytosolic Shigella that have started to polymerize actin. On the other hand, intracytosolic Listeria avoids autophagy recognition by expressing ActA, a bacterial effector required for actin polymerization. Here, we exploit Shigella and Listeria as intracytosolic tools to characterize different pathways of selective autophagy. We show that the ubiquitin-binding adaptor proteins p62 and NDP52 target Shigella to an autophagy pathway dependent upon septin and actin. In contrast, p62 or NDP52 targets the Listeria ActA mutant to an autophagy pathway independent of septin or actin. TNF-α, a host cytokine produced upon bacterial infection, stimulates p62-mediated autophagic activity and restricts the survival of Shigella and the Listeria ActA mutant. These data provide a new molecular framework to understand the emerging complexity of autophagy and its ability to achieve specific clearance of intracytosolic bacteria.
Shigella flexneri effectors OspE1 and OspE2 mediate induced adherence to the colonic epithelium following bile salts exposure.	Shigella flexneri is a Gram-negative pathogen that invades the colonic epithelium. While invasion has been thoroughly investigated, it is unknown how Shigella first attaches to the epithelium. Previous literature suggests that Shigella utilizes adhesins that are induced by environmental signals, including bile salts, encountered in the small intestine prior to invasion. We hypothesized that bile would induce adherence factors to facilitate attachment to colonic epithelial cells. To test our hypothesis, S. flexneri strain 2457T was subcultured in media containing bile salts, and the ability of the bacteria to adhere to the apical surface of polarized T84 epithelial cells was measured. We observed a significant increase in adherence, which was absent in a virulence plasmid-cured strain and a type-III secretion system mutant. Microarray expression analysis indicated that the ospE1/ospE2 genes were induced in the presence of bile, and bile-induced adherence was lost in a ΔospE1/ΔospE2 mutant. Further studies demonstrated that the OspE1/OspE2 proteins were localized to the bacterial outer membrane following exposure to bile salts. The data presented are the first demonstration that the OspE1/OspE2 proteins promote initial adherence to the intestinal epithelium. The adhesins required for Shigella attachment to the colonic epithelium may serve as ideal targets for vaccine development.
Identification of Shigella invasion genes by isolation of temperature-regulated inv::lacZ operon fusions.	Penetration and multiplication within cells of the human colonic epithelium are hallmarks of Shigella spp. pathogenicity. Shigella spp. virulence is regulated by growth temperature. Strains phenotypically virulent when grown at 37 degrees C are phenotypically avirulent when grown at 30 degrees C. The number of genes involved in Shigella spp. pathogenicity and how many virulence genes are temperature regulated are unknown. To facilitate the study of temperature-regulated virulence in Shigella spp., we employed lacZ operon fusion technology to identify temperature-regulated invasion (inv) genes. Four inv::lacZ fusion mutants were identified and found to be unable to invade HeLa cells. The fusions were located in a region of the 220-kilobase invasion plasmid defined as the minimal amount of DNA required for invasion, and they were controlled by virR, the temperature-dependent virulence gene regulator. Western blot (immunoblot) and Southern hybridization analyses indicated that one of the fusions was located in a known inv gene, ipaB, which encodes one of the major immunogenic peptides of Shigella spp. This ipaB::lacZ operon fusion mutant synthesized a truncated IpaB protein recognized by IpaB-specific monoclonal antibodies. Three of the fusions were within novel genes mapping to regions previously identified as essential for a positive virulence phenotype. Analysis of bacterial surface proteins suggested that the genes marked by these fusions may play a role in the correct surface expression of the ipaB and ipaC gene products.
Frequency of IS1-mediated molecular events in different members of the family Enterobacteriaceae.	The numbers of chromosomal copies of the insertion sequence IS1 in strains of Salmonella typhimurium (0 to 8 copies), Shigella sonnei (56 copies), and Shigella flexneri (41 copies) isolated in Mexico City, Mexico, were similar to those reported for these genera isolated in other countries. Of the 11 Shigella strains studied, all carried several small plasmids; however, in only one of these strains did a small plasmid contain IS1, IS1 recombination, cointegrate formation mediated by IS1 or by the IS1-flanked transposon Tn9, and transposition of Tn9 occurred at a higher frequency in S. typhimurium than in either Escherichia coli or S. sonnei strains. The frequencies of IS1 recombination in S. typhimurium strains containing either zero or eight copies of IS1 were similar.
Isolation and characterization of IS elements repeated in the bacterial chromosome.	Shigella sonnei contains repetitive sequences, including an insertion element IS1, which can be isolated as double-stranded DNA fragments by DNA denaturation and renaturation and by treatment with S1 nuclease. In this paper, we describe a method of cloning the IS1 fragments prepared by the S1 nuclease digestion technique into phage M13mp8 RFI DNA. Several clones contained IS1, usually with a few additional bases. We isolated and characterized five other repetitive sequences using this method. One sequence, 1264 base-pairs in length, had terminal inverted repeats and contained two open reading frames. This sequence, called IS600, showed about 44% sequence homology with IS3 and was repeated more than 20 times in the Sh. sonnei chromosome. Another sequence (named IS629, 1310 base-pairs in length), which was repeated six times, was found also to be related to IS3 and thus IS600. Two other sequences (named IS630 and IS640, 1159 and 1092 base-pairs in length, respectively), which were repeated approximately ten times, had characteristic terminal inverted repeats and contained a large open reading frame coding for a protein. The inverted repeat sequences of IS630 were similar to the sequence at one end of IS200, a Salmonella-specific IS element. The fifth sequence, repeated ten times in Sh. sonnei, had about 98% sequence homology with a portion of IS2. The method described here can be applied to the isolation of IS or iso-IS elements present in any other bacterial chromosome.
Isolation, characterization, and mapping of Tn5 insertions into the 140-megadalton invasion plasmid defective in the mouse Sereny test in Shigella flexneri 2a.	Using Shigella flexneri 2a YSH6000, we isolated 304 independent Tn5 insertion mutants in the 230-kilobase invasion plasmid, pMYSH6000. The site of each Tn5 insertion was assigned to 23 SalI fragments on the previously made SalI cleavage map of pMYSH6000. Among the 304 insertions, 150 were negative in expression of four phenotypes examined (mouse Sereny test [Ser], invasion into epithelial cells [Inv], Congo red binding [Pcr], and inhibition of bacterial growth [Igr] ): 12 were Ser- Inv+ Pcr+ Igr+, and 142 were positive in all four phenotypes. Tn5 insertions in the avirulent mutants were distributed in two separate SalI fragments, F and G, and in four contiguous SalI fragments, B, P, H, and D. Fragment G contains a novel class of determinant(s) which is required only for Ser+ but not for Inv+, Pcr+, and Igr+. Fragment F contains the previously characterized virF locus. B, P, H, and D each contained both virulent and avirulent Tn5 insertions. This indicates that more than two gene clusters exist within this region. Both are required for expression of all four virulence phenotypes.
Characterization of self-transmissible plasmids determining lactose fermentation and multiple antibiotic resistance in clinical strains of Klebsiella pneumoniae.	The lactose fermentation (Lac+) and antibiotic resistance (R+) phenotypes were conjugally transferred from Klebsiella pneumoniae strains (K166, K182, K186, K218, and K220) to Salmonella typhi, S. typhimurium, Shigella flexneri, and Vibrio cholerae. The genes for lactose fermentation and antibiotic resistance were located on the plasmids. Further analysis of plasmid DNA from these isolates indicated the presence of multiple plasmids (Mr ranged less than 2.7 to 70 X 10(6)). The Lac+R+ plasmids p166 and p182 were members of the FII incompatibility group. The fertility inhibition property of plasmids, p182, p218, and p220 was fi+ type. Furthermore, phage typing experiments showed that plasmids p166 and p218 (Lac+R+) conferred the ability to inhibit the multiplication of bacteriophages 12 and 13 in S. typhimurium. However, the plasmids p182, p186, and p220 (Lac+R+) could inhibit the visible lysis of all the 30 phages in S. typhimurium. This study describes the characterization of Lac+R+ plasmids and the medical significance of an intergeneric transfer of lactose fermentation to non-lactose-fermenting pathogens.
Molecular cloning of invasion plasmid antigen (ipa) genes from Shigella flexneri: analysis of ipa gene products and genetic mapping.	Tn5-tagged invasion plasmid DNA (pWR110) from Shigella flexneri serotype 5 (strain M90T) was cloned into the expression vector lambda gt11. Recombinant phage (lambda gt11Sfl) expressing pWR110-encoded polypeptide antigens were identified by using rabbit antisera directed against S. flexneri M90T invasion plasmid antigens. Antigens encoded by lambda gt11Sfl recombinant phage were characterized by reacting affinity-purified antibodies, eluted from nitrocellulose-bound plaques of lambda gt11Sfl recombinants, with virulent, wild-type S. flexneri M90T polypeptides in Western blot analyses. lambda gt11Sfl clones directing the synthesis of complete, truncated, and beta-galactosidase fusion versions of three previously identified outer membrane polypeptides (57-, 43-, and 39-kilodalton [kDa] antigens) were isolated. A fourth polypeptide, similar in size to the 57-kDa antigen (ca. 58 kDa) but unrelated as determined by DNA homology and serological measurements, was also identified. Southern blot analysis of S. flexneri M90T invasion plasmid DNA hybridized with lambda gt11Sfl insert DNA probes was used to construct a map of invasion plasmid antigen genes (ipa) corresponding to the 57-kDa (ipaB), 43-kDa (ipaC), and 39-kDa (ipaD) polypeptides. Genes ipaB, ipaC and ipaD mapped to contiguous 4.6-kilobase (kb) and 1.0-kb HindIII fragments contained within a larger (23-kb) BamHI fragment. The ipaH gene, which encodes the synthesis of the 58-kDa polypeptide, did not map in or near the ipaBCD gene cluster, suggesting a distinct location of ipaH on the invasion plasmid.
Introduction of Shigella flexneri 2a type and group antigen genes into oral typhoid vaccine strain Salmonella typhi Ty21a.	For protection against dysentery caused by Shigella flexneri 2a, an in vivo-constructed recombinant plasmid with genes specifying the S. flexneri type and group antigens located near the pro (min 6) and his (min 44) chromosomal markers, respectively, was made and transferred to the galE Salmonella typhi strain Ty21a. Strain Ty21a carrying this recombinant plasmid was shown by immunological and biochemical analyses to express the S. flexneri 2a type and group antigens. Mice immunized with this vaccine strain were found to be protected against challenge with virulent S. flexneri 2a, but not significantly against S. typhi challenge, presumably because synthesis of the Shigella antigens interfered with expression of the typhoid antigens. Elimination of the recombinant plasmid from Ty21a allowed this strain to again express typical S. typhi O antigens. Mouse protection against both S. typhi and S. flexneri 2a challenges was achieved with a whole-cell vaccine mixture composed of equal parts of Ty21a and the Ty21a-S. flexneri 2a hybrid strain.
Comparison of DNA probes and the Sereny test for identification of invasive Shigella and Escherichia coli strains.	Forty-two Shigella and 29 Escherichia coli strains were screened for invasiveness in the Sereny test and for hybridization with two recently described DNA probes for the invasiveness plasmid. Both probes produced identical results. All Sereny-positive strains hybridized with both DNA probes. Three Sereny-negative strains also hybridized with the probes, suggesting that there are strains containing the invasiveness plasmid that are not pathogenic in animal models.
Changes in phage-sensitivity of Shigella flexneri strains. II. The F-like character of Ms2-sensitive variants.	Variants sensitive to male specific phage Ms2 appeared among Ms2 non-sensitive Shigella flexneri cultures in the course of liquid medium passages. Sensitivity to Ms2 was lost on acridine orange treatment and was transferable into Ms2 non-sensitive variants. The Ms2 sensitive variants had fimbrial antigen. Electron microscopy showed that Ms2 phages were adsorbed on the F-like fimbriae of these variants. It was assumed that F-like plasmids determining F-like fimbrial antigen were carried by these variants.
Identification of a novel virulence gene, virA, on the large plasmid of Shigella, involved in invasion and intercellular spreading.	A novel virulence gene (virA) was identified upstream of the virG gene on the large plasmid of Shigella flexneri 2a YSH6000. Characterization of virA mutants infecting MK2 epithelial cell monolayers revealed that their invasive capacity was decreased to less than one fifth of the wild-type level. Nevertheless, the bacteria were capable of expressing and secreting IpaB, IpaC and IpaD proteins. The virA mutants were also impaired in their ability to spread intercellularly, since the bacteria gave rise to a small number of foci in a focus-plaque-forming test with MK2 cells. Although virG expression was slightly decreased in the virA mutants, introduction of a cloned virG gene into a virA mutant, N1945, failed to restore spreading ability. Although, introduction of a cloned virA gene into N1945 restored invasiveness and spreading ability, the reduced virG transcription level was not affected, indicating that the reduced virG expression in virA mutants does not play a major role in defective intercellular spreading. The nucleotide sequence of the virA region revealed that the virA gene was located 528 bp upstream of the virG gene, in the opposite orientation. The deduced amino acid sequence of the VirA protein indicated a 44.7 kDa protein with no homology to known proteins. The VirA protein was secreted into the culture supernatant, a process that required the Mxi and Spa loci. The expression of virA was under the control of the virB gene, the positive regulator of the ipa, mxi and spa operons. These results indicate that virA is a new member of the invasion regulon directed by virB and that the VirA function is involved in invasion and intercellular spreading.
Plasmid profiles of Shigella and Salmonella spp. isolated from diarrhoeic humans in Ibadan, Nigeria.	Clinical isolates of Shigella flexneri, S. dysentariae, S. boydii and Salmonella spp. were screened for the presence of plasmids. Most of the isolates harboured more than one plasmid ranging in molecular size from 1.3 to 36.1 x 10(6) daltons. Very large plasmids were not encountered.
Hyper-invasive mutants define a novel Pho-regulated invasion pathway in Escherichia coli.	We have isolated two transposon insertion mutations of the pst-phoU operon which result in the constitutive expression of the phoA gene product, alkaline phosphatase. The two mutations also render Escherichia coli invasive towards cultured HEp-2 cells and define a novel Pho-regulated invasion pathway. The presence of the large 'invasion' plasmid derived from an entero-invasive E. coli (EIEC) clinical isolate in these mutants leads to enhanced invasiveness toward cultured HEp-2 cells, a phenomenon referred to as the 'hyper-invasive' phenotype. Transduction of a pst-phoU insertion mutation into clinical isolates of EIEC and Shigella flexneri results in constitutive PhoA expression and coupled hyper-invasiveness in the former but not the latter. We speculate that the Pho-regulated invasion pathway described here, while silent in bacteria grown in standard laboratory rich media, may become functional in the host when invasive bacteria encounter nutrient starvation and/or other related stress conditions.
A morphological evaluation of the protective properties of noninvasive recombinant strains of Shigella]	In 2-3 weeks after the oral immunization of rabbits, made in one or two administrations, with attenuated two-marker S. dysenteriae 1 strain VS-12 and recombinant S. dysenteriae VS-12/S. sonnei NR-18 and S. flexneri y433/S. sonnei NR-18 pronounced immunological reaction developed in the mucous membrane of the small intestine: blast transformation follicles of Peyer's patches, an increase in the number of lymphoblasts and plasmocytes in the cupolae of follicles and in intestinal villi, and an increase in the number of lymphocytes and macrophages in the intestinal epithelium with their release into the lumen of the intestine after challenge with virulent shigellae. The protective potency of these recombinants after challenge with massive doses of virulent shigellae was found to be high, which was shown by quantitative evaluation of the decrease of adhesion, invasiveness and cytotoxicity, suppression of epithelial lesions and development of inflammation in the intestinal mucosa.
A morphological evaluation of the harmlessness of noninvasive recombinant Shigella strains]	The interaction of Shigella recombinant strains (with attenuating chromosomal mutations, with transposon-neutralized plasmid gene mutations, the hybrids of both strains), incapable of inducing keratoconjunctivitis in guinea pigs, with cells Hep-2 and enterocytes in the ligated loop of the small intestine of rabbits was studied. These strains retained, to varying extent, pronounced adhesiveness, but practically lost their invasiveness (though in Peyer's patches the translocation of bacteria by M-cells was observed) and cytotoxicity, as well as their capacity to multiply in epithelial cells and to cause destructive inflammation in the intestine. According to these criteria of evaluation, morphological investigations confirm the safety of the recombinant shigellae under study.
Nucleotide sequence of the rhamnose biosynthetic operon of Shigella flexneri 2a and role of lipopolysaccharide in virulence.	N1308, a chromosomal Tn5 mutant of Shigella flexneri 2a, was described previously as a lipopolysaccharide (LPS) mutant with a short O side chain. N1308 formed foci, but not plaques, in LLC-MK2 cell monolayers and was negative in the Serény test. In this study, the wild-type locus inactivated in N1308 was cloned and further defined by means of complementation analysis. A 4.3-kb BstEII-XhoI fragment of S. flexneri 2a YSH6200 DNA was sufficient to restore both normal LPS and virulence phenotype to the mutant. DNA sequencing of this region revealed four genes, rfbA, rfbB, rfbC, and rfbD, encoding the enzymes required for the biosynthesis of activated rhamnose. The four genes were expressed in Escherichia coli, and the expected protein products were visualized by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. N1308 was shown to have normal levels of surface IpaC and IpaD, while a Western blot (immunoblot) of whole-cell lysates or outer membrane fractions indicated an elevated level of appropriately localized VirG. An in vitro invasion assay revealed that N1308 had normal primary invasive capacity and was able to multiply and move normally within the initial infected cell. However, it exhibited a significant reduction in its ability to spread from cell to cell in the monolayer. A double immunofluorescence assay revealed differences between LLC-MK2 cells infected with the wild-type YSH6000 and those infected with N1308. The wild-type bacteria elicited the formation of the characteristic F-actin tails, whereas N1308 failed to do so. However, N1308 was capable of inducing deposition of F-actin, which accumulated in a peribacterial fashion with only slight, if any, unipolar accumulation of the cytoskeletal protein.
The lcrB (yscN/U) gene cluster of Yersinia pseudotuberculosis is involved in Yop secretion and shows high homology to the spa gene clusters of Shigella flexneri and Salmonella typhimurium.	Virulent bacteria of the genus Yersinia secrete a number of virulence determinants called Yops. These proteins lack typical signal sequences and are not posttranslationally processed. Two gene loci have been identified as being involved in the specific Yop secretion system (G. Cornelis, p. 231-265, In C. E. Hormache, C. W. Penn, and C. J. Smythe, ed., Molecular Biology of Bacterial Infection, 1992; S. C. Straley, G. V. Plano, E. Skrzypek, P. L. Haddix, and K. A. Fields, Mol. Microbiol. 8:1005-1010, 1993). Here, we have shown that the lcrB/virB locus (yscN to yscU) encodes gene products essential for Yop secretion. As in previously described secretion apparatus mutants, expression of the Yop proteins was decreased in the yscN/U mutants. An lcrH yscR double mutant expressed the Yops at an increased level but did not secrete Yops into the culture supernatant. The block in Yop expression of the ysc mutants was also circumvented by overexpression of the activator LcrF in trans. Although the Yops were expressed in elevated amounts, the Yops were still not exported. This analysis showed that the ysc mutants were unable to secrete Yops and that they were also affected in the negative Ca(2+)-regulated loop. The yscN/U genes showed remarkably high homology to the spa genes of Shigella flexneri and Salmonella typhimurium with respect to both individual genes and gene organization. These findings indicate that the genes originated from a common ancestor.
Characterization of the dTDP-rhamnose biosynthetic genes encoded in the rfb locus of Shigella flexneri.	The nucleotide sequence of the proximal half of the rfb region of Shigella flexneri has been determined, and the genes encoding enzymes involved in the biosynthesis of dTDP-rhamnose have been identified. These genes show strong homology to the rfb genes encoding dTDP-rhamnose biosynthesis in Salmonella enterica serovar typhimurium (strain LT2) and S. enterica serovar anatum (strain M32) (Jiang et al., 1991; Wang et al., 1992). An open reading frame upstream of rfbB was also identified which encoded a protein having strong similarity with GaIU, and has been designated galF. GalF has 92% amino acid sequence identity with an S. enterica LT2 gene, orf2X8, which is similarly situated upstream of rfbB (Jiang et al., 1991). The T7 expression system was utilized to identify proteins corresponding to those predicted from DNA sequence analysis. The similarity of the predicted proteins with proteins that are functionally identical or related, and with others of unknown function from the Yersinia enterocolitica O3 rfb region, and in the Escherichia coli K-12 rff region are also described. We have re-addressed the assignment of each gene of the dTDP-rhamnose pathway with the known enzymes of the pathway, in particular rfbC and rfbD. A reporter plasmid to detect genes encoding enzymes of the dTDP-rhamnose pathway is described. An analysis of the intergenic region between galF and rfbB has been made, and comparison with the same region from S. enterica LT2 discussed.
Bacillus subtilis flagellar proteins FliP, FliQ, FliR and FlhB are related to Shigella flexneri virulence factors.	The amino acid sequences of the Bacillus subtilis flagellar proteins, FliP, FliQ, FliR and FlhB, as deduced from their respective nucleotide sequences, were found to share significant homology to the Shigella flexneri Spa24, Spa9, Spa29 and Spa40 virulence proteins, respectively. These proteins are required for the presentation of surface plasmid antigens. These results further support the growing hypothesis that a superfamily of proteins exists for the biosynthesis of supramolecular structures that lie in an external to the cell membrane.
Population dynamics in the co-culture of Shigella flexneri 1b original strain and its antigenic 3b mutant carrying a prophage.	The antigenic mutant Shigella flexneri 3b showed selective prevalence when subcultured with the original strain 1b. Mathematical analysis of such co-cultures showed that the dynamics of bacterial growth may be described by equations of the Lotka-Volterra type. The analysis of serial cultivations suggests that parameters of the equations may be realizations of random variables characterizing strains and media. The mutant carries a prophage lethal for the original strain. Distinctive features of the growth of these strains alone and in co-culture may be successfully explained by the differences in growth parameters, without phage inference. The concurrence model connected only with the existence of the phage is not sufficient. A complete description of the dynamics of the co-culture is obtained by the connection of the assumptions of two models: strains in competition and growth of strains with phage, given the random character of the parameters.
Detection and characterization of the flagellar master operon in the four Shigella subgroups.	Strains in the genus Shigella are nonmotile, but they retain some cryptic flagellar operons whether functional or defective (A.Tominaga, M. A.-H. Mahmoud, T. Mukaihara, and M. Enomoto, Mol. Microbiol. 12:277-285, 1994). To disclose the cause of motility loss in shigellae, the presence or defectiveness of the flhD and flhC genes, composing the master operon whose mutation causes inactivation of the entire flagellar regulon, was examined in the four Shigella subgroups. The flhD operon cloned from Shigella boydii and Shigella sonnei can activate, though insufficiently, the regulon in the Escherichia coli flhD or flhC mutant background. The clone from Shigella dysenteriae has a functional flhD gene and nonfunctional flhC gene, and its inactivation has been caused by the IS1 element inserted in its 5' end. The operon of Shigella flexneri is nonfunctional and has suffered an IS1-insertion mutation at the 5' end of the flhD gene. Comparison of restriction maps indicates that only the central 1.8-kb region, including part of the flhC gene and its adjacent mot operon, is conserved among the four Shigella subgroups as well as in E. coli, but in Salmonella typhimurium the whole map is quite different from the others. Motility loss in shigellae is not attributable to genetic damage in the master operon of a common ancestor, but it occurs separately in respective ancestors of the four subgroups, and in both S. dysenteriae and S.flexneri IS1 insertion in the master operon might be the primary cause of motility loss.
Antibody response of monkeys to invasion plasmid antigen D after infection with Shigella spp.	The antigen preparation most often used for determining the levels of antibodies to virulence-associated proteins of Shigella spp. consists of a mixture of proteins (including IpaB, IpaC, IpaD, and VirG*) extracted from virulent shigellae with water (water extract). To overcome the lack of specificity for individual antigens in the water-extract enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), the ipaD gene from S. flexneri has been cloned, expressed to a high level, and purified for use in a new ELISA for the determination of the levels of antibody against IpaD in monkeys and humans challenged with shigellae. The IpaD ELISA for serum immunoglobulins G and A correlated well with the water-extract ELISA in that monkeys infected with S. flexneri or S. sonnei responded with high serum antibody titers in both assays. The IpaD assay required less antigen per well, had much lower background levels, and did not require correction with antigens from an avirulent organism. In conjunction with the water-extract ELISA, it was possible to identify infected animals that did not respond to IpaD but did produce antibodies that reacted in the water-extract ELISA. This indicates that even though IpaB, IpaC, and IpaD are essential for the invasiveness phenotype, the infected host does not always produce antibodies against all components of the invasiveness apparatus.
Expression of the virulence plasmid-carried apyrase gene (apy) of enteroinvasive Escherichia coli and Shigella flexneri is under the control of H-NS and the VirF and VirB regulatory cascade.	The transcription of the virulence plasmid (pINV)-carried invasion genes of Shigella flexneri and enteroinvasive Escherichia coli (EIEC) is induced at 37 degreesC and repressed at 30 degreesC. In this work, we report that the O135: K-:H- EIEC strain HN280 and S. flexneri SFZM53, M90T, and 454, of serotypes 4, 5, and 2a, respectively, produce apyrase (ATP-diphosphohydrolase), the product of the apy gene. In addition, the S. flexneri strains, but not the EIEC strain, produce a nonspecific phosphatase encoded by the phoN-Sf gene. Both apy and phoN-Sf are pINV-carried loci whose contribution to the pathogenicity of enteroinvasive microorganisms has been hypothesized but not yet established. We found that, like that of virulence genes, the expression of both the apy and the phoN-Sf genes was temperature regulated. Strain HN280/32 (a pINV-integrated avirulent derivative of HN280 which has a severe reduction of virB transcription) expressed the apy gene in a temperature-regulated fashion but to a much lower extent than wild-type HN280, while the introduction of the Deltahns deletion in HN280 and in HN280/32 induced the wild-type temperature-independent expression of apyrase. These results indicated that a reduction of virB transcription, which is known to occur in the pINV-integrated strain HN280/32, accounts for reduced apyrase expression and that the histone-like protein H-NS is involved in this regulatory network. Independent spontaneously generated mutants of HN280 and of SFZM53 which had lost the capacity to bind Congo red dye (Crb-) were isolated, and the molecular alterations of pINV were evaluated by PCR analysis. Alterations of pINV characterized by the absence of virF or virB and by the presence of the intact apy locus or intact apy and phoN-Sf loci were detected among Crb- mutants of HN280 and SFZM53, respectively. While all Crb- apy+ mutants of HN280 failed to produce apyrase, Crb- apy+ phoN-Sf+ mutants of SFZM53 lacked apyrase activity but produced a nonspecific phosphatase, like parental SFZM53. Moreover, the introduction of recombinant plasmids carrying cloned virF (pMYSH6504) or virB (pBN1) into Crb- mutants of HN280 and SFZM53 lacking virF or virB, respectively, fully restored temperature-dependent apyrase expression to levels resembling those of the parental strains. Taken together, our results demonstrate that, as has already been shown for invasion genes, apy is another locus whose expression is controlled by temperature, H-NS, and the VirF and VirB regulatory cascade. In contrast, the temperature-regulated expression of the nonspecific phosphatase does not appear to be under the control of the same regulatory network. These findings led us to speculate that apyrase may play a role in the pathogenicity of enteroinvasive bacteria.
H-NS regulates DNA repair in Shigella.	We report a new role for H-NS in Shigella spp.: suppression of repair of DNA damage after UV irradiation. H-NS-mediated suppression of virulence gene expression is thermoregulated in Shigella, being functional at 30 degrees C and nonfunctional at 37 to 40 degrees C. We find that H-NS-mediated suppression of DNA repair after UV irradiation is also thermoregulated. Thus, Shigella flexneri M90T, incubated at 37 or 40 degrees C postirradiation, shows up to 30-fold higher survival than when incubated at 30 degrees C postirradiation. The hns mutants BS189 and BS208, both of which lack functional H-NS, show a high rate of survival (no repression) whether incubated at 30 or 40 degrees C postirradiation. Suppression of DNA repair by H-NS is not mediated through genes on the invasion plasmid of S. flexneri M90T, since BS176, cured of plasmid, behaves identically to the parental M90T. Thus, in Shigella the nonfunctionality of H-NS permits enhanced DNA repair at temperatures encountered in the human host. However, pathogenic Escherichia coli strains (enteroinvasive and enterohemorrhagic E. coli) show low survival whether incubated at 30 or 40 degrees C postirradiation. E. coli K-12 shows markedly different behavior; high survival postirradiation at both 30 and 40 degrees C. These K-12 strains were originally selected from E. coli organisms subjected to both UV and X irradiation. Therefore, our data suggest that repair processes, extensively described for laboratory strains of E. coli, require experimental verification in pathogenic strains which were not adapted to irradiation.
Thermoregulation of Shigella and Escherichia coli EIEC pathogenicity. A temperature-dependent structural transition of DNA modulates accessibility of virF promoter to transcriptional repressor H-NS.	The expression of plasmid-borne virF of Shigella encoding a transcriptional regulator of the AraC family, is required to initiate a cascade of events resulting in activation of several operons encoding invasion functions. H-NS, one of the main nucleoid-associated proteins, controls the temperature-dependent expression of the virulence genes by repressing the in vivo transcription of virF only below a critical temperature (approximately 32 degrees C). This temperature-dependent transcriptional regulation has been reproduced in vitro and the targets of H-NS on the virF promoter were identified as two sites centred around -250 and -1 separated by an intrinsic DNA curvature. H-NS bound cooperatively to these two sites below 32 degrees C, but not at 37 degrees C. DNA supercoiling within the virF promoter region did not influence H-NS binding but was necessary for the H-NS-mediated transcriptional repression. Electrophoretic analysis between 4 and 60 degrees C showed that the virF promoter fragment, comprising the two H-NS sites, undergoes a specific and temperature-dependent conformational transition at approximately 32 degrees C. Our results suggest that this modification of the DNA target may modulate a cooperative interaction between H-NS molecules bound at two distant sites in the virF promoter region and thus represents the physical basis for the H-NS-dependent thermoregulation of virulence gene expression.
