Long distance telementoring. A novel tool for laparoscopy aboard the USS Abraham Lincoln.	As general surgeons perform a growing number of laparoscopic operations in increasingly specialized environments, the ability to obtain expert advice during procedures becomes more important. Technological advances in video and computer communications are enabling surgeons to procure expertise quickly and efficiently. In this article, we present laparoscopic procedures completed through an intercontinental telementoring system and the first telementored laparoscopic procedures performed aboard a naval vessel.
Rectal injury caused by a personal watercraft accident: report of a case.	An original case of rectal injury after a personal watercraft accident is reported. Principles of rectal trauma management are discussed.
Marine vessel control using the tiller-motor system.	Operator performance on the tiller-motor system was investigated in a field survey and in a tracking simulator. Boat operators in Study 1 reported both control difficulties and discomfort, when using their tiller-motor system. Participants in Study 2 operated a tiller-motor simulator of a boat navigating a river over a 20 min period. Directional and speed control performance was found to be poor, particularly on the first trials and under emergency conditions. These results support the suggestion that the incompatible nature of the control/response relationship in tiller-motor systems can cause operator difficulties. The dimensions of the simulator were systematically varied and found to influence operator shoulder extension, and ratings of exertion and discomfort. Recommendations for tiller-motor system design and installation are offered.
Cardiological monitoring of sailors via offshore Internet connection.	Sailing is becoming increasingly popular as a form of holiday recreation. The purpose of the present study was to profile the heart rate characteristics of non-professional crew members on a Mediterranean sailboat trip. Additionally, the practicability of transferring electronic data via the Internet while sailing offshore was also studied.
Incidence of imposex in thais orbita from Port Phillip Bay (Victoria, Australia), following 10 years of regulation on use of TBT.	Imposex, the phenomenon in which induced male sex characteristics are superimposed on normal females, still occurs widely in the gastropod Thais orbita from Port Philip Bay, and its incidence is greatest in areas that have high boating and shipping activities. Compared to 1992, both the extent and severity of imposex has reduced. By inference, this means that pollution by tributyltin (TBT) in Port Phillip Bay has decreased and that the bans limiting its use to vessels greater than 25 m in length, in place since 1989, have been effective. However, TBT pollution is still an issue at locations that are adjacent to major ports, such as the Port of Melbourne, where TBT from large ships and ship maintenance activities continues to pollute fish habitats. It is anticipated that the incidence of imposex, and therefore TBT pollution, will continue to decrease in Port Phillip Bay as long as the bans currently in place continue to be observed. If the trends observed in the present study continue, then it is unlikely, with the notable exception of commercial ports, that TBT will pose a threat to the health of fish habitats in Port Phillip Bay.
The meltdown of biogeographical peculiarities of the Baltic Sea: the interaction of natural and man-made processes.	The biogeographical peculiarities of the Baltic Sea have developed since the last glacial period. The characteristic mixture of marine, brackish water, and freshwater species, and relicts from previous periods in the Baltic, is threatened by ongoing environmental changes. This review focuses on the recent impacts of nonindigenous species, eutrophication, and a temporary oxygen deficit in the deep basins, on the biogeographical integrity of the Baltic on different spatial and time scales. Today the biota of brackish waterbodies are exposed to each other because of the breakdown in geographical barriers due to shipping traffic, leading to an exchange of species and further homogenization of aquatic animal and plant life worldwide.
Analysis of logistical and organizational aspects of a cruise for patients with chronic respiratory insufficiency. The RESpIRA Expedition and the COPD Cruise]	Patients with chronic respiratory insufficiency who are receiving domiciliary oxygen therapy and mechanical ventilation report great difficulty in taking complex trips involving several destinations and prolonged stays away from home. Such patients share a common need for home equipment whose technology is relatively sophisticated, a condition that limits their freedom of movement. We are referring to systems for delivering oxygen therapy and mechanical respirators. Given that such patients have problems traveling by air, we hypothesized that a cruise would be an ideal alternative, given that travel would take place in the hotel itself. A cruise would facilitate the logistics of the journey, given that the equipment would have to be set up at only one setting. Working with these assumptions, we have thus far organized two cruises for chronic respiratory insufficiency patients: the "RESpIRA Expedition" and the "COPD Cruise". Our experience shows that the organizational problems to be coped with are patient recruitment, financing and choice of itinerary. With those aspects clear, organizers must then obtain the authorization of the cruise operator, including the approval of the medical and safety personnel on board. After obtaining permission for the cruise and as soon as the organizers know how many patients will travel, a list of oxygen therapy equipment (respirators and disposable supplies) must be compiled. Finally, equipment suppliers must be found. Afterwards, all that remains is to enjoy the trip. The participation of physicians responsible for domiciliary oxygen therapy and mechanical ventilation programs is essential for making patients feel safe and for assuring solutions for technical and medical problems that might arise.
Impacts of the Jessica oil spill on intertidal and shallow subtidal plants and animals.	Densities of fishes, invertebrates and plants at rocky intertidal and shallow subtidal sites were censused 1-2 days prior to the Jessica oil spill and compared with information obtained for the same sites one month after the spill, both for sites impacted by oil and unaffected reference sites. While the availability of pre-spill data made this analysis one of the most powerful to date for testing impacts of oil on shoreline environments, no clear changes attributable to oiling could be identified. Discharged oil appeared to cause very little impact in the intertidal and shallow subtidal zones, with such impacts lying within the range of natural spatial and temporal variation at sites investigated. Factors considered to minimize impact in Galápagos included paucity of fully sheltered shores in spill path, moderate wave action, warm temperature, high levels of sunlight, and mixing of bunker oil with diesel.
The effect of the Jessica grounding on subtidal invertebrate and plant communities at the Galápagos wreck site.	Impacts of the grounding of the oil tanker Jessica off San Cristóbal island, Galápagos, included both effects of oil on biota and also mechanical effects associated with a shallow furrow 50 m x 30 m gouged across the rocky seafloor and wreckage strewn over 7500 m(2). The wreckage represented a minor but potentially chronic source of pollution to the surrounding environment through delayed releases of oil, antifouling compounds and other toxic chemicals, and a possible source of exotic marine taxa. Investigation at the wreck site indicated that impacts on subtidal plant and macro-invertebrate communities were largely confined within 100 m of the wreck site itself. Observed population effects included significant increases in cover of opportunistic algae (filamentous green algae, filamentous red algae and Ulva sp.) and the hydroid Ectopleura media adjacent to the wreck, while densities of the green sea urchin Lytechinus semituberculatus significantly decreased from 0.3 m(-2) adjacent to the wreck to 11 m(-2) at 100 m distance.
The effect of the Jessica grounding on Galápagos reef fish communities adjacent to the wreck site.	The grounding of the oil tanker Jessica off San Cristóbal Island, Galápagos, resulted in generally elevated rather than depressed densities of fishes adjacent to the wreck site 15 weeks post spill. Species richness of fishes declined along transects out from the wreck; however, patterns were inconsistent for different depth strata, with the most clearly defined decline evident for the intermediate 5-7 m depth stratum. Fish species attracted to the immediate wreck site, most notably the surgeonfish Prionurus laticlavius, the damselfish Microspathodon dorsalis and the angelfish Holacanthus passer, were considered to be responding either to the heterogeneity provided by the wreck structure or elevated densities of macroalgae. The fish community at the wreck site lay outside the range of variation for other sites investigated in the region; however, contrary to predictions of grounding impacts, the fish assemblage immediately adjacent to the wreckage showed greater faunal similarity to reference sites than did fish assemblage at 60-90 m distance from the grounding.
Oil contamination of sedimentary shores of the Galápagos Islands following the wreck of the Jessica.	Sediment samples were collected from sandy beaches at a variety of sites in the southern Galápagos Archipelago to assess levels of hydrocarbon contamination following the wreck of the oil tanker Jessica. Hydrocarbon levels in sediments were generally very low by international standards ranging between 0.4 and 48.9 ppm, with contamination attributable to the Jessica only detected at three sites Santa Fe, Playa Estación (Puerto Ayora, Santa Cruz) and Long Beach (Isabela). There was evidence of residual hydrocarbon contamination from sources other than the wreck of the Jessica.
Impacts of the Jessica oil spill on sea lion (Zalophus wollebaeki) populations.	Following the Jessica oil spill, a total of 79 oiled Galápagos sea lions (Zalophus wollebaeki) were recorded around the islands of San Cristóbal, Santa Fé, Isabela and Floreana. Almost half of these animals required washing and other treatment. One sea lion death and a high incidence of conjunctivitis and burns were detected during the period of the oil spill. Sea lion populations exhibited a tendency for decline in the first months following the spill at all three colonies monitored close to the grounding site on San Cristóbal. By comparison, declines of similar magnitude occurred at only one of six sea lion colonies monitored on islands more distant from the spill. However, no significant decreases in population numbers were detected for any colony in the year following the spill. Galápagos sea lion populations were partially recovering from the much more catastrophic impact of the 1997/98 El Niño.
Effects of the Jessica oil spill on artisanal fisheries in the Galápagos.	In contrast to local perceptions, the impact on the local Galápagos artisanal fishery of the 16 January 2001 grounding of the Jessica and subsequent oil spill was relatively minor. No significant changes in fishing effort, total fishing catches or catch-per-unit effort were detected after the spill based on analyses of fisheries monitoring data. Nevertheless, large boats tended to move away from sites near the path of the spill following the grounding in 2001, with no fishing recorded from the oil-affected regions of Floreana and southern Isabela in February 2001. The total fishing effort of small boats operating from the Jessica-grounding island of San Cristóbal also declined immediately after the spill, probably in part because such boats were used in clean up operations. During 2001, prices paid to fishers remained stable at levels higher than in 2000, with the notable anomaly that prices fell precipitously to 30% of previous levels during a 1-2 week period in early February 2001. Fish exports remained at similar levels for the years 2000 and 2001; however, as in the previous year, little fish product was exported from Galápagos in the month following the spill, with most fish product dried and stored for up to two months prior to transport to the continent.
SeaWiFS satellite monitoring of oil spill impact on primary production in the Galápagos Marine Reserve.	Near daily satellite monitoring of ocean colour using sea viewing wide angle of field viewing sensor (SeaWiFS) allowed the oceanic and near coastal chlorophyll-a distributions to be followed across the Galápagos Marine Reserve (GMR) from space. In the aftermath of the Jessica spill early indications suggested that, compared to the three preceding years 1998-2000, local chlorophyll concentrations over January 2001 were elevated across the Galápagos Marine Reserve [Biological Impacts of the Jessica Oil Spill on the Galápagos Environment: Preliminary Report. Charles Darwin Foundation, Puerto Ayora, Galápagos, Ecuador, 2001]. At the time of the spill the central and eastern extent of the archipelago was experiencing a spatially extensive moderate bloom event (0.5-2.5 mgm(-3) chl-a) extending over the central islands, including the source of the spill and areas of known impact such as the islands of Santa Fé, eastern Santa Cruz and Floreana directly in the advection path.Further investigation shows that chlorophyll across the affected regions of western San Cristóbal, Santa Fé, southeast Santa Cruz, eastern Floreana and eastern Isabela declined in the week directly following the spill event, yet rose in the successive month to levels analogous to preceding years. Although there may have been a localised effect of the spill upon near coast phytoplankton primary production in the short term, the observed variance in the weeks following the spill was not significant in comparison to the normal high variation between years and within the El Niño/Southern Oscillation signal.
Characteristics of drowning by different age groups.	While it is known that the risk of unintentional drowning varies with age, the manner in which drowning episode characteristics vary by age has not been well described. Such information might be useful for prevention.
Hidden nuggets: nautical archeology and laboratory management.	Although the professions of nautical archaeology and clinical laboratory management seem to involve different bodies of knowledge, many of the principles and truisms of archaeology correlate to the art of laboratory management. On two occasions, I have been a member of a team excavating a 350-year-old shipwreck off the north shore of the Dominican Republic. I have illustrated those experiences to demonstrate that these seemingly disparate professions share frustrations that interfere with the pursuit of useful knowledge as well as successes that lead to new knowledge.
"Governare il diabete" ("to steer diabetes"): a new proposal for diabetic camps.	"Governare il diabete" (the Italian translation of "to steer diabetes") is a project which gives young diabetics the opportunity of sailing with non-diabetic companions in a protected and educational environment. The education technique, based on the parallelism between sailing and diabetes, encourage correct self-management of both diabetes related and unrelated problems. The impact of the experience on self-esteem, quality of life and metabolic control is currently under investigation.
Tissue metal concentrations and histopathology of rats gavaged with vitrified soil obtained from the former Charleston Naval Shipyard (SC, USA).	Male Sprague Dawley rats were administered a vitrified material obtained from the former Charleston Naval Shipyard (Charleston, SC, USA) by gavage once daily for 32 days. Group mean body weight of treated animals was within +/-5.4% of controls. No gross or histopathological changes were observed when animals were treated with 67, 174, or 370 mg/kg per day. Analysis of heavy metals revealed a statistically significant increase only in the concentration of arsenic in the livers of animals treated with 174 or 370 mg/kg per day versus controls. Although there was a statistically significant increase in liver arsenic levels, the concentrations were far below mean soil concentrations for western and eastern United States. If the standard assumption of 100% absorption is used, the concentrations observed in the present study are about 20 times less than the average background soil levels in these regions. Based on this, it is concluded that the vitrified material would not pose a public health risk for its intended use as an additive for asphalt and glass beams.
Velocity specificity of weight training for kayak sprint performance.	Athletes often use weight training to prepare for sprint events, but the effectiveness of different types of weight training for sprinting is unclear. We have therefore investigated the effect of slow and explosive weight training on kayak sprint performance.
Litter pollution on the Jordanian shores of the Gulf of Aqaba (Red Sea).	Litter was assessed on three beaches along the Jordanian coast of the Gulf of Aqaba, south of the town Aqaba, monthly during 1994 and 1995, in order to determine its nature, extent and possible sources. The overall mean was about 5 and 3 items/m(2) in 1994 and 1995, respectively. Approximately a total of 14,000 m(2) were examined and a total of 101,000 items were noted, 67,000 during 1994 and 34,000 in 1995. More than 50% of the litter was plastic and the remainder wood, glass, cardboard, Styrofoam, metal and other materials. Most litter appears to be from local land-based or near shore sources, although there are some regional influences as well. The main local sources are the passenger port, the cargo port and the beach goers. The findings are compared with other regions of the world. The amount of litter is related to distance of the beach from the main sources, and shape, physiography and orientation of the beach. Spatial and seasonal variations are examined and discussed, and actions and measures to combat the problem on local and regional levels are suggested.
Behaviors of 323Th, 238U, 228Ra and 226Ra on combustion of crude oil terminal sludge.	Crude oil terminal sludge contains technologically enhanced naturally occurring radionuclides such as (232)Th, (238)U, (228)Ra and (226)Ra, thus cannot be disposed of freely without proper control. The current method of disposal, such as land farming and storing in plastic drums is not recommended because it will have a long-term impact on the environment. Due to its organic nature, there is a move to treat this sludge by thermal methods such as incineration. This study has been carried out to determine the behaviors of (232)Th, (238)U, (228)Ra and (226)Ra present in the sludge during combustion at a certain temperature and time. The percentage of volatilization was found to vary between 2% and 70%, (238)U was the most volatile in comparison with (232)Th, (228)Ra and (226)Ra. (238)U is found to be significantly volatilized above 500 degrees C, and might reach maximum volatilization at above 700 degrees C. A mathematical model was developed to predict the percentage of volatilization of (232)Th, (238)U, (228)Ra and (226)Ra contained in the sludge. With this known percentage of volatilization, the concentration of (232)Th, (238)U, (228)Ra and (226)Ra present in the bottom and filter ashes can be calculated.
Contribution of agricultural and non-agricultural use of pesticides to the environmental impact on aquatic life in regional surface water systems.	By means of a modelling tool an analysis was made of the local variation in the use of pesticides in the province of Utrecht in The Netherlands, and the potential environmental impact of pesticide emissions on the aquatic ecosystems. The aim of this study was to identify and quantify the major sources of pesticide use and environmental impact, taking the regional variation of pesticide use into account. The analysis was targeted at different levels: detailed (individual active substances, individual agricultural crops, civil land-use types, hydrological catchment basins) and globally covering agricultural use, non-agricultural use (some civil sectors) and recreational shipping. The results can be used for the (re)design of environmental monitoring programmes of pesticides in surface waters and for the development of region based policies towards sustainable pesticide use. The analysis tool that was developed is considered to be applicable for other regions as well.
North Atlantic right whales (Eubalaena glacialis) ignore ships but respond to alerting stimuli.	North Atlantic right whales were extensively hunted during the whaling era and have not recovered. One of the primary factors inhibiting their recovery is anthropogenic mortality caused by ship strikes. To assess risk factors involved in ship strikes, we used a multi-sensor acoustic recording tag to measure the responses of whales to passing ships and experimentally tested their responses to controlled sound exposures, which included recordings of ship noise, the social sounds of conspecifics and a signal designed to alert the whales. The whales reacted strongly to the alert signal, they reacted mildly to the social sounds of conspecifics, but they showed no such responses to the sounds of approaching vessels as well as actual vessels. Whales responded to the alert by swimming strongly to the surface, a response likely to increase rather than decrease the risk of collision.
Determination of dermal exposures during mixing, spraying and wiping activities.	Dermal exposure measurements were collected as part of RISKOFDERM, a European dermal exposure study which aims to improve the understanding of the nature and range of dermal exposures to hazardous substances throughout the European Union. Exposure measurements were collected to enable a predictive model to be developed for regulatory risk assessment purposes. In this paper dermal exposure data are presented for three generic job tasks: spray painting, wiping surfaces and mixing/dilution of formulations. The particular workplace settings included a dockyard and three medical laboratories. In the dockyard the tasks involved spray application and mixing of anti-foulant paint. For laboratory workers the observed tasks were preparation of biocide solution and wiping of surfaces with the disinfectant. Each dermal exposure measurement was derived from the mass of trace analyte on cotton gloves and 11 fabric patches, which were cut from whole-body dosimeters, representing the main anatomical areas of the body. The percentage mass of trace analyte in the formulation was determined by analysis to enable the total mass of the product on the anatomical areas to be calculated. The sampling periods were recorded to enable calculation of the dermal exposure rate, which is expressed as micro g total formulation/cm(2)/h. The geometric mean dermal exposure rate for the hands during spray painting was 2760 micro g/cm(2)/h (n = 24). The exposure rate for the rest of the body was 175 micro g/cm(2)/h (n = 35). Mixing of the paint involved higher exposure rates for both the hands and body, with a geometric mean of 31 200 micro g/cm(2)/h (n = 9) for the hands and 327 micro g/cm(2)/h (n = 14) for the rest of the body. For small-scale routine disinfection of surfaces using small quantities of biocide the principal anatomical area affected was the hands, with a geometric mean dermal exposure rate of 1840 micro g/cm(2)/h (n = 6). During systematic disinfection of laboratory surfaces with larger quantities of the biocide solution, the geometric mean dermal exposure rate for the hands was increased to 139 000 micro g/cm(2)/h (n = 24). In this case there was increased exposure of the body: principally the arms, legs, chest and head. The measured dermal exposure rate during preparation of the biocides (mixing) was very low, with a geometric mean value for the hands of 13 micro g/cm(2)/h (n = 16). There was a high level of variability observed in the results within each task. It is suggested that dermal exposures are partly dependent on human behaviour and on the occurrence of accidental contact with contaminated surfaces. This makes interpretation of the results difficult for predictive risk assessment purposes.
Review of the role of alcohol in drowning associated with recreational aquatic activity.	To assess the role of alcohol in drowning associated with recreational aquatic activity by reviewing the English language literature published up to October 2003.
Long-term effects of psychological trauma on psychosocial functioning.	Most studies of the effects of trauma on mental health have generally not separately assessed psychosocial functioning, and in those that have key issues have received little attention, such as the relation between the time courses of the two kinds of outcome, and detailed assessment of social functioning in a range of domains. The present study made separate assessments with a view to testing four hypotheses. First, that the experience of trauma itself (independently of effects on mental health) has a negative effect on psychosocial functioning; second, that psychopathology following trauma is associated with poorer psychosocial functioning; third, that psychosocial functioning recovers when psychiatric conditions remit; fourth, that post-traumatic stress and depression have different associations with impairments of psycho-social functioning.
An analytical method for shipboard extraction of the odour compounds, 2-methylisoborneol and geosmin.	Extractions for the analysis of geosmin and 2-methylisoborneol (MIB) were carried out on board a research vessel by extracting water samples in the collection bottles with dichloromethane. The extracts are stable and can be stored for up to two months with no apparent loss of analytes. Workup and analysis could be done at the rate 15-20 samples per week. Approximately 150 samples from Lake Ontario were analyzed in 2000 and 120 samples in 2001. Concentrations as low as 1 ng/L could be detected, but reliable determination was only attained above 5 ng/L (> 80% qualifier ion match within +/- 50%). Reproducibility between duplicates was generally better than 10%, and recovery of surrogate standards from reagent water averaged ca. 80% and from lake water ca. 60%. In early September, 2000, geosmin concentrations in Lake Ontario ranged from 1-13 ng/L and MIB from 1-31 ng/L. In 2001, the ranges were 1-47 and 1-56 ng/L for geosmin and MIB, respectively. Lowest concentrations occurred in the western and central regions and highest concentrations in the eastern region and St Lawrence River.
Differences in mortality by radiation monitoring status in an expanded cohort of Portsmouth Naval Shipyard workers.	Studies of leukemia and lung cancer mortality at the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard (PNS) have yielded conflicting results. In an expanded cohort of PNS workers employed between 1952 and 1992 and followed through 1996, the all-cause standardized mortality ratio (SMR) was 0.95 (95% confidence interval, 0.93-0.96). Employment duration SMRs were elevated with confidence intervals excluding 1.00 for lung cancer, esophageal cancer, and all cancers combined. Leukemia mortality was as expected overall, but standardized rate ratio analyses showed a significant positive linear trend with increasing external radiation dose. The role of solvent exposures could not be evaluated. Findings differed by radiation monitoring subcohort, with excess asbestosis deaths limited to radiation workers and several smoking-related causes of death higher among nonmonitored workers. At PNS, asbestos exposure and possibly smoking could be nonrandomly distributed with respect to radiation exposure, suggesting potential for confounding in internal analyses of an occupational cohort.
Reuse of wastewater sludge with marine clay as a new resource of construction aggregates.	The disposal of sludge from wastewater treatment presents highly complex problems to any municipality. Most of the sludge disposal methods have varying degrees of environmental impact. Hence, it is necessary to explore potential areas of reuse in order to alleviate sludge disposal problems and to conserve natural resources. Industrial sludge and marine clay are two forms of high-volume wastes. Using these wastes as a resource of raw materials to produce construction aggregates would enable large-scale sludge reuse. The aggregates were produced at various sludge-clay combinations containing 0, 20, 50, 80 and 100% clay contents, respectively. The pelletized aggregates displayed lower particle densities ranged between 1.48 and 2.25 g/cm3, compared to the density of granite at 2.56 g/cm3. Good 28-day concrete compressive strength of 38.5 N/mm2 achieved by the 100% sludge aggregate was comparable to the value of 38.0 N/mm2 achieved of the granite control specimens. The leachate contamination levels from the aggregates after 150 days were found acceptable when used in concrete, indicating insignificant environmental contamination. The heat flow study showed increases in heat flow at the temperatures of 480 degrees C and between 660 degrees C and 900 degrees C, indicating a need for the extension of heating time around these temperatures.
Adiponectin is altered after maximal exercise in highly trained male rowers.	The purpose of present study was to investigate plasma adiponectin response to acute exercise in highly trained male rowers. Ten rowers performed a maximal 6,000-m rowing ergometer test [mean performance time approximately 20 min; 1,200.8 (29.9) s], and venous blood samples were obtained before, immediately after and after 30 min of recovery. In addition to adiponectin concentration, leptin, insulin, growth hormone and glucose values were measured. Adiponectin was not changed immediately after the exercise when uncorrected for plasma volume changes (-8.1%; P>0.05). However, adiponectin was decreased immediately after the exercise when adjusted for plasma volume changes (-11.3%; P<0.05). Adiponectin was significantly increased above the resting value after the first 30 min of recovery (uncorrected for plasma volume, +19.3%; corrected for plasma volume, +20.0%). No changes occurred in plasma leptin and insulin concentrations with exercise (uncorrected for plasma volume changes). While growth hormone and glucose values were significantly increased and decreased to the pre-exercise level immediately after the exercise and after the first 30 min of recovery, respectively (uncorrected for plasma volume changes), no differences in the responses to exercise were observed in these measured blood parameters when adjusting for plasma volume changes. There were no relationships between plasma adiponectin and other measured blood parameters before and after the exercise, nor were changes in adiponectin related to changes in other measured blood biochemical values after the exercise. These results suggest that plasma adiponectin is altered as a result of maximal acute exercise in highly trained athletes.
Use of the CABS methodology to assess biomechanical stress in commercial crab fishermen.	Commercial fishing is a job characterized by long hours in an unpredictable, dynamic natural environment and variable demands placed on the musculoskeletal system, requiring strength, coordination, and endurance. The focus of this project was in the quantification of the biomechanical stresses placed on the lumbar spine during the work activities of commercial crab fishermen. The continuous assessment of back stress (CABS) methodology was used to develop distributions describing the amount of time that each of the crew members on a two- or three-man crabbing crew spend at various levels of low back stress. The results of this analysis, expressed in terms of time-weighted histograms, show significant inter and intra-crewmember variability in the stress measures during regular daily work activities. For the three man crew, the captain has relatively low stress levels throughout the work day, while the mate performs high force (up to 30 kg), dynamic exertions while pulling the crab pots from the water up into the boat and high loads (20-40 kg) during the loading and unloading of the boat in the morning and evening, respectively. The third man of the crew experiences static awkward postures (forward flexed postures held for up to 5 min at a time) as he sorts and packs the crabs. For the two-man crew, the results show a more even distribution of the high stress activities between the crewmembers. The application of the results of this analysis for prioritization of work tasks for ergonomic intervention is discussed.
Seasickness in totally-enclosed motor-propelled survival craft: remedial measures.	Totally-enclosed motor-propelled survival craft (TEMPSC) are used to evacuate the crews of mobile offshore drilling units in emergencies. The small size and flat bottom of the TEMPSC predispose most occupants to seasickness, even in relatively calm waters. This paper discusses efforts required to improve the well-being of occupants in terms of reducing seasickness, dehydration, hypothermia, anxiety, and the other factors that contribute to loss of comfort and the will to survive. Specific recommendations include the provision of climatic control to regulate temperature, remove odors and provide fresh air; potable water, electrolytes, and survival rations; and an ample supply of motion sickness bags. Overcrowding should be avoided. Anti-motion-sickness drug therapy to control vomiting should be administered in two ways: initial injection of intramuscular scopolamine for fast action followed by a transdermal ear patch for long-term protection. Leadership and seasickness management should be requisite survival training for all oil rig workers.
Development and organization for casualty management on a 1,000-bed hospital ship in the Persian Gulf.	A 1,000-bed hospital ship designed for trauma patients was deployed to the Middle East with the objectives of preparing for large numbers of casualties resulting from Operation Desert Storm from conventional, chemical, and biological weapons. Plans for receipt and decontamination of casualties, triage, and optimal utilization of the 1,000-bed facility were developed. Mass casualty drills were conducted, involving all aspects of patient care from the flight deck to the wards. Trauma and critical care registries were developed to collect casualty data that could then be analyzed for specific military purposes and compared with current civilian registries. Attempts were made to identify the advances in shock resuscitation, systems management, and operative treatment from the civilian community that could be applied to care of combat casualties. Difficulties with accomplishing these objectives included limited trauma experience and supplies and poorly defined medical regulating and evacuation policies. The development of these programs, as well as the unique difficulties encountered, are discussed.
Radiation exposure from work-related medical X-rays at the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard.	Previous analyses suggest that worker radiation dose may be significantly increased by routine occupational X-ray examinations. Medical exposures are investigated for 570 civilian workers employed at the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard (PNS) at Kittery, Maine. The research objective was to determine the radiation exposure contribution of work-related chest X-rays (WRX) relative to conventional workplace radiation sources.
Hospitalisations among seafarers on merchant ships.	To study morbidity among active seafarers in the merchant navy in order to clarify possible work related morbidity and the morbidity related to work and lifestyle where possible preventive measures may be initiated.
The risk of lung cancer and mesothelioma after cessation of asbestos exposure: a prospective cohort study of shipyard workers.	A prospective cohort study of 3,893 shipyard workers, mainly exposed to chrysotile, indicated no increased risk of lung cancer 7-15 yrs after exposure to asbestos had ceased. The shipyard workers, however, had an increased risk of pleural mesotheliomas with 11 observed cases versus 1.5 expected. An explanation for these observations may be that asbestos may have different carcinogenic mechanisms in causing lung cancer and mesothelioma. A non-increased risk of lung cancer some years after exposure to asbestos has stopped is in accordance with asbestos acting as a promotor. The high risk of mesothelioma, on the other hand, may indicate that asbestos acts as a complete carcinogen in developing this disease.
Detection of multiple enteric virus strains within a foodborne outbreak of gastroenteritis: an indication of the source of contamination.	An outbreak of acute gastroenteritis of suspected viral aetiology occurred in April 2003 in the British Royal Fleet Auxiliary ship (RFA) Argus deployed in the Northern Arabian Gulf. There were 37 cases amongst a crew of 400 personnel. Of 13 samples examined from cases amongst the crew, six enteric viruses were detected by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Five different viruses were identified including, three norovirus genotypes, a sapovirus and a rotavirus. No multiple infections were detected. A common food source was implicated in the outbreak and epidemiological analysis showed a statistically significant association with salad as the source of the outbreak, with a relative risk of 3.41 (95% confidence interval of 1.7-6.81) of eating salad on a particular date prior to the onset of symptoms. Faecal contamination of the salad at source was the most probable explanation for the diversity of viruses detected and characterized.
Urinary and blood manganese in occupationally nonexposed populations and in manual metal arc welders of mild steel.	To obtain reference values for blood and serum manganese levels, blood specimens were collected from 29 men and 36 women. Mn in blood showed a normal distribution; its upper 97.5% limit in blood was 0.38 mumol/l. Mn in serum showed a skewed distribution, which did not differ from the normal one after logarithmic transformation. The respective reference limit was 19 nmol/l. In both specimens, the levels of Mn were significantly lower in men than in women. To obtain reference values for Mn in urine, midday urine specimens were collected from 58 men and 96 women. Mn in urine also showed a skewed distribution, and the upper 97.5% limit was 38 nmol/l. The levels of Mn in blood and urine were statistically significantly higher in manual metal arc (MMA) welders of mild steel (MS) than in the reference populations. Five MMA/MS welders were subjected to a further study in which the ambient intramask Mn levels and urinary Mn excretion were monitored throughout a full working week. For two welders the correlation of Mn in urine specimens voided in the afternoon was good with the before noon Mn concentrations in the hygienic measurements; for the rest the correlation was minimal. Mn in diurnal urine specimens collected in six portions showed fluctuation if specific gravity or creatinine in urine was used to standardize for the urinary flow, but it was less evident for urinary Mn excretion rate. Our results seem to indicate that the measurement of Mn in urine or blood may be used for monitoring Mn exposure in MMA/MS welders only at the group level.
Questionnaire survey of masters, mates, and pilots of a State Ferries System on health, social, and performance indices relevant to shift work.	A questionnaire survey of health, social, and performance indices related to shiftwork among masters, mates, and pilots of a State Ferries System was performed in response to a joint request from labor and management. The questionnaire results for the group as a whole resembled those reported for other groups of shiftworkers. Significantly more sick days, dissatisfaction with work schedules, poor sleep patterns, physician consultations for insomnia, and reports of errors of judgement and near misses attributed to fatigue were reported on the ferry run with one of the most erratic schedules compared to all other runs, suggesting the need for further study.
Classification and coding of commercial fishing injuries by work processes: an experience in the Danish fresh market fishing industry.	Work-related injuries in commercial fishing are of concern internationally. To better identify the causes of injury, this study coded occupational injuries by working processes in commercial fishing for fresh market fish.
Biogeochemical effects of disturbance in shallow water sediment by macroalgae harvesting boats.	In the shallow water of Orbetello lagoon, macroalgae harvesting boats produce sediment disturbance. To evaluate the effect of this, during 2001-2002, a trial study was carried out in the lagoon in order to: verify seasonal and diurnal trends in nutrients and estimate the quantity of resuspended organic sediment. An unbalanced and balanced ANOVA (one and two way) analysis was applied. The disturbance did not produce strong and lasting eutrophication effects. In the seasonal survey, dissolved inorganic nitrogen (DIN) and soluble reactive phosphorus (SRP) showed significant decreases in disturbed areas at the end of the trial, while the control area showed a constant, significant increase. Dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) and phosphorus (DOP) significantly increased everywhere. In disturbed areas, sediment redox (Eh((NHE))) increased and porosity values decreased, contrary to the control area. Total organic carbon (TOC) remained unchanged in disturbed areas, but increased in the control area, where the C:P ration increased. The fall-out of sedimentary material resuspended by boat action for as far as 50 m from the boat route, was 189 g(dw)m(-2) made up mainly of organic matter. This disturbance could be the cause of change in vegetation in the lagoon.
Domestic and international arrivals of NOBOB (no ballast on board) vessels to lower Chesapeake Bay.	In examining ship-mediated biological invasions, most research and treatment development has focused on ballast water. Another vector that has gained attention recently is vessels arriving in a "no ballast on board" (NOBOB) condition. Such ships retain relatively small, unpumpable volumes of water and sediment in their ballast tanks. Nonetheless, these unpumpable portions can represent great ecological risk. This scenario is relevant in the Great Lakes, which have experienced a dramatic series of introductions, despite most vessels arriving there as NOBOBs since 1994. We examined shipping patterns of NOBOBs arriving to lower Chesapeake Bay to begin evaluating their risk of biopollution. Only 14% of ships arrive as NOBOBs, and of those, 17% depart to another port in the upper bay. Most NOBOBs arrive from or leave for other US ports; proximate trans-Atlantic crossings are few. Given the nature of their operations, we conclude NOBOBs may represent a risk for aquatic nuisance species invasions to Chesapeake Bay.
Risk of lung cancer and leukemia from exposure to ionizing radiation and potential confounders among workers at the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard.	Significantly elevated lung cancer deaths and statistically significantly positive linear trends between leukemia mortality and radiation exposure were reported in a previous analysis of Portsmouth Naval Shipyard workers. The purpose of this study was to conduct a modeling-based analysis that incorporates previously unanalyzed confounders in exploring the exposure-response relationship between cumulative external ionizing radiation exposure and mortality from these cancers among radiation-monitored workers in this cohort. The main analyses were carried out with Poisson regression fitted with maximum likelihood in linear excess relative risk models. Sensitivity analyses varying model components and using other regression models were conducted. The positive association between lung cancer risk and ionizing radiation observed previously was no longer present after adjusting for socioeconomic status (smoking surrogate) and welding fume and asbestos exposures. Excesses of leukemia were found to be positively, though not significantly, associated with external ionizing radiation, with or without including potential confounders. The estimated excess relative risk was 10.88% (95% CI -0.90%, 38.77%) per 10 mSv of radiation exposure, which was within the ranges of risk estimates in previous epidemiological studies (-4.1 to 19.0%). These results are limited by many factors and are subject to uncertainties of the exposure and confounder estimates.
Mussels document loss of bioavailable polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and the return to baseline conditions for oiled shorelines in Prince William Sound, Alaska.	Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) were measured in mussels (Mytilus trossulus) collected between 1990 and 2002 from 11 sites on the shores of Prince William Sound (PWS), Alaska, that were heavily oiled by the 1989 Exxon Valdez oil spill (EVOS). This study, utilizing the methods of the NOAA Status and Trends Mussel Watch Program, found that concentrations of PAH released from spill remnants have decreased dramatically with time and by 2002 were at or near the range of total PAH (TPAH) of 3-355 ng/g dry weight obtained for mussels from unoiled reference sites in PWS. Time-series TPAH data indicate a mean TPAH half-life in mussel tissues of 2.4 years with a range from 1.4 to 5.3, yielding an annual mean loss of bioaccumulated TPAH of 25%. The petroleum-derived TPAH fraction in mussel tissues has decreased with time, reflecting the decreasing release of EVOS residues in shoreline sediments. These results show that PAH from EVOS residues that remain buried in shoreline sediments after the early 1990s are in a form and at locations that have a low accessibility to mussels living in the intertidal zone.
Quantitative analyses of pollution-indicator and pathogenic bacteria in Mumbai waters from ballast water exchange perspective.	As large numbers of ships either take in ballast from or discharge their ballast into the Mumbai Harbor region, it is pertinent to quantify microorganisms of health concerns and suggest on the suitability of water for ballasting purposes. To meet with this main aim, a selected set of general and pathogenic bacterial groups and their seasonal variations were studied from the Mumbai Harbor area. Sampling was carried out during postmonsoon (November 2001), pre-monsoon (April 2002) and monsoon (October 2002) periods. We quantified total coliforms and eight other groups of known human pathogenic bacteria from water, sediment, marine plant and animal samples collected in and around Mumbai Harbor. When compared with similar studies from other parts/harbors of the world, the Mumbai Harbor area has over 100-times higher levels of coliforms. The serotypes of Escherichia coli O157 and Shigella-Alkaligens Dispar group were abundant throughout the year. Even Vibrio cholerae, V. parahaemolyticus, Salmonella spp., campylobacters and aeromonads were present in large numbers. This comprehensive study, conducted with a view to quantify these bacterial groups and to evaluate the suitability of these waters for ballasting purposes, clearly suggests that both ballasting and deballasting be avoided in this region and alternative procedures should be developed for treating/handling ballast water.
Assessment of adaptation to on-board conditions on "The Ship for World Youth"]	The adaptation process of youth from 13 countries on board "The 3rd Ship for World Youth" cruise which was held from January 18 to March 20 in 1991 was analyzed. The age of almost all of the participants was in the 20's (average age was 24.9 yrs), and there were 103 participants (47 males, 56 females) from Japan, 171 participants (86 males, 85 females) from North, Middle and South America, and Oceanian countries for total of 274 participants (133 males, 141 females). The living environment on board differed significantly from daily living conditions of the participants, particularly due to the need to communicate in a foreign language, and to live in harmony with different cultures in a confinement situation, such that they were inevitably susceptible to various stressors. Among the participants there were some who needed psychiatric care and treatment. In order to assess quantitatively psychosomatic reactions to those stressors, a 28-item scaled GHQ (= General Health Questionnaire) assessment was performed four times on board with the following findings: 1. Highest scores were seen shortly after embarkment and decreased as the participants got accustomed to the living conditions on board. 2. The scores of the Japanese participants were higher than those of foreign participants, possibly indicating awkward adaptational skill on the part of Japanese participants especially during the first stage. 3. Japanese females scored slightly higher than Japanese males throughout the course of the program. 4. No clear difference in scores between Japanese participants aged under 25 y and over 26 y was observed. 5. A large proportion (77.3%) of Japanese participants had Y-G personality test results classifying them in the 'stable positive' group (D group). These participants had significantly lower scaled GHQ scores than those in the non-D group, indicating a high adaptational ability of D group participants.
Analyses of battle casualties by weapon type aboard U.S. Navy warships.	The number of casualties was determined for 513 incidents involving U.S. Navy warships sunk or damaged during World War II. Ship type and weapon were significant factors in determining the numbers of wounded and killed. Multiple weapon attacks and kamikazes yielded more wounded in action than other weapon types. Multiple weapons and torpedos resulted in a higher incidence of killed in action than other weapons. Penetrating wounds and burns were the most prominent injury types. Kamikaze attacks yielded significantly more burns than incidents involving bombs, gunfire, torpedos, mines, and multiple weapons. Mine explosions were responsible for more strains, sprains, and dislocations than the other weapon types.
A method for shipboard treatment of multiple heat casualties.	A method is presented for the treatment aboard ship of multiple patients afflicted with life-threatening heat illness, using an inflatable life raft cooling system. The potential benefits of this method include: (1) the utilization of readily available materials aboard U.S. Naval vessels; (2) the provision for rapid patient cooling by evaporation while maintaining patient safety and comfort; (3) the ability to treat many patients simultaneously with minimal attendant personnel; and (4) the maintenance of patient access allowing for monitoring and the administration of additional supportive measures.
Characterization and source of oil contamination on the beaches and seabird corpses, Sable Island, Nova Scotia, 1996-2005.	During April 1996-May 2005, 2343 oiled seabird corpses were recorded in beach surveys conducted on Sable Island, Nova Scotia. One hundred eighty-three samples of oil were collected from the beaches and from the feathers of bird corpses. Gas chromatographic (GC/FID) analysis was used to identify generic oil type and likely marine source. During this period, at least 74 marine oil discharge events were probably responsible for beached pelagic tar and contamination of seabird corpses found on Sable Island, of which 77.0% were crude oils, 14.9% were fuel oils, and 8.1% were bilge oil mixtures. While fuel and bilge oils may be discharged by all vessel and platform types, crude oil discharges are associated with tanker operations. This study demonstrates that oiling of the sea from tankers remains a serious wildlife issue in the Northwest Atlantic.
Organotin contamination in the Atlantic Ocean off the Iberian Peninsula in relation to shipping.	Imposex in female snails, a bioindicator of TBT contamination, and the presence of organotins in snails' tissue and sediments were studied at nine sites off the western Iberian Peninsula. The study was part of a European project (acronym HIC-TBT) co-financed by the EU-LIFE programme, intending to investigate and communicate the impact of organotins from ships in marine ecosystems. Snails and sediments were sampled during two cruises in May/June 1999 and in January 2000 in areas of high, intermediate and low-shipping density. Imposex was found in female snails from several sampling sites, some of which had an imposex incidence of 100%. Differences in sensitivity were found between species; hence comparison of imposex levels between locations where different species were collected was not straightforward. Total organotin concentrations in sediments (sum of butyl and phenyltin compounds) ranged from 21 to 185 ng Sn g(-1) with higher values for most sites sampled in the vicinity of shipping lanes. Organotin concentration in snails' tissue ranged from <5 to 196 ng Sn g(-1), which are similar to those found in snails from other offshore areas contaminated by TBT. Overall, these results give further support to the recent ban on the use of organotin based antifouling paints to all ship size.
An accidental death due to Freon 22 (monochlorodifluoromethane) inhalation in a fishing vessel.	A case of accidental Freon 22 (monochlorodifluoromethane) poisoning in a fishing vessel is reported. Forensic autopsy revealed severe pulmonary edema and congestion (left lung; 576 g, right lung; 740 g). GC-MS analysis clearly showed that the deceased inhaled Freon 22 gas prior to his death. Freon 22 concentration was 169+/-7.0 microg/ml in the heart blood. The distribution pattern of Freon 22 in tissue samples was similar to that in previously reported cases. The brain had the highest concentration of Freon 22 followed by the spleen, liver, kidney and lung, respectively. Histopathologically, Oil red O staining of the liver showed many small, positive red areas in the cytosol, which have been reported in other cases of Freon 22 poisoning. However, Schmorl staining revealed that most areas of Oil red O positivity were lipofuscin granules. Lipofuscin in the liver, which closely relates to aging and other cell stresses, could have a relevance to Freon 22 exposure, but further experimental studies are needed to confirm it.
Shoulder muscle recruitment patterns during a kayak stroke performed on a paddling ergometer.	Precise muscle co-ordination is required to maintain normal shoulder function and alterations in synchrony between shoulder muscles can result in loss of full range of movement and pain. Although shoulder pain in kayakers is high with 53% of elite international paddlers reporting shoulder injuries, little information is available regarding the pattern of shoulder muscle recruitment during paddling. The aim of this study was to investigate the normal recruitment pattern of shoulder muscles during the kayak stroke. Nine recreational paddlers without shoulder pain were examined. EMG data from eight shoulder muscles of the dominant arm were collected simultaneously with video data during simulated paddling on an ergometer. EMG data was normalized to time and peak amplitude. Intersubject consistency was evaluated using Pearson correlation analysis. The results of this study indicated a fair to high correlation in at least one phase of the kayak stroke in five of the muscles examined: upper trapezius, supraspinatus, latissimus dorsi, serratus anterior and rhomboid major. This normative data will enable comparisons with the shoulder muscle recruitment patterns in kayakers with shoulder pain in order to determine the role of altered motor control in the painful kayaking shoulder.
Ecological significance of residual exposures and effects from the Exxon Valdez oil spill.	An ecological significance framework is used to assess the ecological condition of Prince William Sound (PWS), Alaska, USA, in order to address the current management question: 17 y following the Exxon Valdez oil spill (EVOS), are there any remaining and continuing ecologically significant exposures or effects on the PWS ecosystem caused by EVOS? We examined the extensive scientific literature funded by the Exxon Valdez Trustees or by ExxonMobil to assess exposures and effects from EVOS. Criteria to assess ecological significance include whether a change in a valued ecosystem component (VEC) is sufficient to affect the structure, function, and/or health of the system and whether such a change exceeds natural variability. The EVOS occurred on 24 March 1989, releasing over 250,000 barrels of crude oil into PWS. Because PWS is highly dynamic, the residual oil was largely eliminated in the first few years, and now only widely dispersed, highly weathered, or isolated small pockets of residual contamination remain. Many other sources of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) exist in PWS from past or present human activities or natural oil seeps. Multiple-lines-of-evidence analyses indicate that residual PAHs from EVOS no longer represent an ecologically significant exposure risk to PWS. To assess the ecological significance of any residual effects from EVOS, we examined the literature on more than 20 VECs, including primary producers, filter feeders, fish and bird primary consumers, fish and bird top predators, a bird scavenger, mammalian primary consumers and top predators, biotic communities, ecosystem-level properties of trophodynamics and biogeochemical processes, and landscape-level properties of habitat mosaic and wilderness quality. None of these has any ecologically significant effects that are detectable at present, with the exception of 1 pod of orcas and possibly 1 subpopulation of sea otters; however, in both those cases, PWS-wide populations appear to have fully recovered. Many other stressors continue to affect PWS adversely, including climate and oceanographic variability, increased tourism and shipping, invasive species, the 1964 earthquake, and overexploitation of marine resources, with associated cascading effects on populations of PWS fish and predators. We conclude that the PWS ecosystem has now effectively recovered from EVOS.
Low-level otoacoustic emissions may predict susceptibility to noise-induced hearing loss.	In a longitudinal study with 338 volunteers, audiometric thresholds and otoacoustic emissions were measured before and after 6 months of noise exposure on an aircraft carrier. While the average amplitudes of the otoacoustic emissions decreased significantly, the average audiometric thresholds did not change. Furthermore, there were no significant correlations between changes in audiometric thresholds and changes in otoacoustic emissions. Changes in transient-evoked otoacoustic emissions and distortion-product otoacoustic emissions were moderately correlated. Eighteen ears acquired permanent audiometric threshold shifts. Only one-third of those ears showed significant otoacoustic emission shifts that mirrored their permanent threshold shifts. A Bayesian analysis indicated that permanent threshold shift status following a deployment was predicted by baseline low-level or absent otoacoustic emissions. The best predictor was transient-evoked otoacoustic emission amplitude in the 4-kHz half-octave frequency band, with risk increasing more than sixfold from approximately 3% to 20% as the emission amplitude decreased. It is possible that the otoacoustic emissions indicated noise-induced changes in the inner ear, undetected by audiometric tests. Otoacoustic emissions may therefore be a diagnostic predictor for noise-induced-hearing-loss risk.
Human error in recreational boating.	Each year over 600 people die and more than 4000 are reported injured in recreational boating accidents. As with most other accidents, human error is the major contributor. U.S. Coast Guard reports of 3358 accidents were analyzed to identify errors in each of the boat types by which statistics are compiled: auxiliary (motor) sailboats, cabin motorboats, canoes and kayaks, house boats, personal watercraft, open motorboats, pontoon boats, row boats, sail-only boats. The individual errors were grouped into categories on the basis of similarities in the behavior involved. Those presented here are the categories accounting for at least 5% of all errors when summed across boat types. The most revealing and significant finding is the extent to which the errors vary across types. Since boating is carried out with one or two types of boats for long periods of time, effective accident prevention measures, including safety instruction, need to be geared to individual boat types.
Echolocation signals of wild harbour porpoises, Phocoena phocoena.	Field recordings of harbour porpoises (Phocoena phocoena) were made in the inner Danish waters with a vertical array of three or four hydrophones. The back-calculated source level ranged from 178 to 205 dB re 1 muPa pp @ 1 m with a mean source level of 191 dB re 1 muPa pp @ 1 m. The maximum source level was more than 30 dB above what has been measured from captive animals, while the spectral and temporal properties were comparable. Calculations based on the sonar equation indicate that harbour porpoises, using these high click intensities, should be capable of detecting fish and nets and should be detectable by porpoise detectors over significantly larger distances than had previously been assumed. Harbour porpoises in this study preferred a relatively constant inter-click interval of about 60 ms, but intervals up to 200 ms and down to 30 ms were also recorded.
Latent tuberculosis infection among sailors and civilians aboard U.S.S. Ronald Reagan--United States, January-July 2006.	Crews aboard ships live and work in crowded, enclosed spaces. Historically, large tuberculosis (TB) outbreaks and extensive transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis have occurred on U.S. Navy ships. On July 13, 2006, smear- and culture-positive, cavitary, pulmonary TB was diagnosed in a sailor aboard the aircraft carrier U.S.S. Ronald Reagan; the patient, aged 32 years, had a negative human immunodeficiency virus test. The M. tuberculosis strain cultured was susceptible to all first-line TB medications. The sailor was born in the Philippines, had latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) diagnosed in 1995 shortly after enlisting in the U.S. Navy, and completed the 6-month daily isoniazid course that was standard treatment at that time (current treatment standard is 9 months). This report describes the contact investigation conducted by the U.S. Navy and CDC and demonstrates the importance of timely diagnosis of TB, identification and treatment of new LTBI, and cooperation among local, state, and federal agencies during large contact investigations.
International collaboration on marine bioinvasions--the ICES response.	The International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES) noted the risks associated with uncontrolled species introductions and transfers more than 40 years ago and launched two working groups to address the issue, i.e. the ICES Working Group on Introductions and Transfers of Marine Organisms (WGITMO) to deal with the movement of non-indigenous species for e.g. aquaculture purposes and the ICES/IOC/IMO Working Group on Ballast and Other Ship Vectors which focuses on species movements with ships. Both groups are actively working until today and the key achievements of the groups are outlined.
Potential microbial bioinvasions via ships' ballast water, sediment, and biofilm.	A prominent vector of aquatic invasive species to coastal regions is the discharge of water, sediments, and biofilm from ships' ballast-water tanks. During eight years of studying ships arriving to the lower Chesapeake Bay, we developed an understanding of the mechanisms by which invasive microorganisms might arrive to the region via ships. Within a given ship, habitats included ballast water, unpumpable water and sediment (collectively known as residuals), and biofilms formed on internal surfaces of ballast-water tanks. We sampled 69 vessels arriving from foreign and domestic ports, largely from Western Europe, the Mediterranean region, and the US East and Gulf coasts. All habitats contained bacteria and viruses. By extrapolating the measured concentration of a microbial metric to the estimated volume of ballast water, biofilm, or residual sediment and water within an average vessel, we calculated the potential total number of microorganisms contained by each habitat, thus creating a hierarchy of risk of delivery. The estimated concentration of microorganisms was greatest in ballast water>>sediment and water residuals>>biofilms. From these results, it is clear microorganisms may be transported within ships in a variety of ways. Using temperature tolerance as a measure of survivability and the temperature difference between ballast-water samples and the water into which the ballast water was discharged, we estimated 56% of microorganisms could survive in the lower Bay. Extrapolated delivery and survival of microorganisms to the Port of Hampton Roads in lower Chesapeake Bay shows on the order of 10(20) microorganisms (6.8 x 10(19) viruses and 3.9 x 10(18) bacteria cells) are discharged annually to the region.
Analytical study of the safety records of a leading seaport in the GCC.	The pertinent records of the year 1411 H (1990/1991) for a leading seaport of a member state of GCC were examined for appraising safety performance there. The recorded accidents during this year included: 270 accidents without injuries, 58 first-aid accidents and 138 work injuries (leading to absence off work) and 4 fatalities. The injury frequency rate there (3.41) is comparable with similar agencies, while the severity rate (725.2) is considerably higher. Collision of transport, lifting and material handling equipment represents the major type of work accident (58.9%), while the highest injury rates occurred in maintenance and operation of marine equipment, followed by loading and unloading, then housekeeping. Meanwhile, the rate of accidents showed considerable increase a--during summer months, b--during the peak months of the Gulf war followed by "re-export" of war equipment, c--in the middle days of the week, d--during the 4th and 8th hours of shift, with a sharp decrease during and after lunch hours, and e--among workers performing highly technical jobs; however decreased by gaining experience with the long duration of employment. Most of the accidents could be prevented by proper training of workers and appropriate supervision, since their cause was unsafe acts due to lack of attention and/or of supervision.
Survival of immersions during recreational boating events in Alaska, 1999-2004.	This retrospective study analyzed records of boating or other watercraft-related events in Alaska from 1999-2004, where at least one drowning occurred, to identify factors associated with survivors of these same events.
Patterned burst-pulse vocalizations of the northern right whale dolphin, Lissodelphis borealis.	Vocalizations from the northern right whale dolphin, Lissodelphis borealis, were recorded during a combined visual and acoustic shipboard survey of cetacean populations off the west coast of the United States. Seven of twenty single-species schools of L. borealis produced click and pulsed vocalizations. No whistles were detected during any of the encounters. Clicks associated with burst-pulse vocalizations were lower in frequency and shorter in duration than clicks associated with echolocation. All burst-pulse sounds were produced in a series containing 6-18 individual burst-pulses. These burst-pulse series were stereotyped and repeated. A total of eight unique burst-pulse series were detected. Variation in the temporal characteristics of like units compared across repeated series was less than variation among all burst-pulses. These stereotyped burst-pulse series may play a similar communicative role as do stereotyped whistles found in other delphinid species.
Maritime medical service as a means to preserve health in water transport workers]	The authors justify new views of maritime medical service as a science of work ecology for individuals engaged into high risk occupations. The article describes unfavorable factors experienced by seamen during long voyages, presents analysis of maritime medicine state in Russia and outlines prospects for development of such medical branch.
Effect of stroke rate on the distribution of net mechanical power in rowing.	The aim of this study was to assess the effect of manipulating stroke rate on the distribution of mechanical power in rowing. Two causes of inefficient mechanical energy expenditure were identified in rowing. The ratio between power not lost at the blades and generated mechanical power (P(rower)) and the ratio between power not lost to velocity fluctuations and P(rower) were used to quantify efficiency (e(propelling) and e(velocity) respectively). Subsequently, the fraction of P(rower) that contributes to the average velocity (chi(boat)) was calculated (e(net)). For nine participants, stroke rate was manipulated between 20 and 36 strokes per minute to examine the effect on the power flow. The data were analysed using a repeated-measures analysis of variance. Results indicated that at higher stroke rates, P(rower), chi(boat), e(propelling), and e(net) increase, whereas e(velocity) decreases (P < 0.0001). The decrease in e(velocity) can be explained by a larger impulse exchange between rower and boat. The increase in e(propelling) can be explained because the work at the blades decreases, which in turn can be explained by a change in blade kinematics. The increase in e(net) results because the increase in e(propelling) is higher than the decrease in e(velocity). Our results show that the power equation is an adequate conceptual model with which to analyse rowing performance.
Screening of natural product biocides for control of non-indigenous species.	Several benzo-, naphtho- and anthraquinones were tested for their efficacy as biocides in controlling aquatic nuisance species in ships' ballast water. A requirement of this application was broad spectrum aquatic toxicity, coupled with a relatively rapid rate of degradation, in order to comply with coastal discharge requirements. Compounds were screened using a suite of toxicity bioassays designed to establish their relative toxicity to an array of planktonic organisms including larval bivalves Dreissena and Crassostrea, various developmental stages of the estuarine copepod Eurytemora affinis, brine shrimp larvae (Artemia salina), the freshwater invasive water flea Bythotrephes, larval sheepshead minnows CCyprinodon variegates) and two unicellular algal genera Isochrysis and Neochloris.. The majority of the data were recorded as the lowest concentration of the test compound resulting in complete mortality or inactivation of test organisms (LC ,m). The naphthoquinones juglone, plumbagin, menadione and naphthazarin showed the highest toxicity to the broadest range of organisms, often at levels much less than 1 mg l(-1), and most of the attention was focused on this group. While plumbagin and juglone appeared overall to be the most toxic compounds, it was concluded that menadione was probably the most cost-effective candidate compound for shipboard use for controlling invasive species in ballast water, particularly in view of the large volumes of water that would require treatment.
Anesthesia services during operation unified assistance, aboard the USNS Mercy, after the tsunami in Southeast Asia.	The tsunami that struck Southeast Asia on December 26, 2004, resulted in the deaths of >300,000 individuals. The U.S. response included the formation of the first combined civilian/ military peacetime humanitarian effort, directed by the National Command Authority as Operation Unified Assistance. This effort included military personnel from the U.S. Navy and civilians assembled by Project HOPE. Anesthesiologists and certified nurse anesthetists provided care in >150 cases. We discuss the initial response, medical and cultural planning, logistical support, procedures, and lessons learned in this unique opportunity.
Effects of proposed physical ballast tank treatments on aquatic invertebrate resting eggs.	Adaptations in aquatic invertebrate resting eggs that confer protection from natural catastrophic events also could confer protection from treatments applied to ballast water for biological invasion vector management. To evaluate the potential efficacy of physical ballast water treatment methods, the present study examined the acute toxicity of heat (flash and holding methods), ultraviolet (UV) radiation (254 nm), and deoxygenation (acute and chronic) on resting eggs of the freshwater cladoceran Daphnia mendotae and the marine brine shrimp Artemia sp. Both D. mendotae and Artemia sp. were similarly sensitive to flash exposures of heat (100% mortality at 70 degrees C), but D. mendotae were much more sensitive to prolonged exposures. Exposure to 4,000 mJ/cm2 of UV radiation resulted in mortality rates of 59% in Artemia sp. and 91% in D. mendotae. Deoxygenation to an oxygen concentration of 1 mg/L was maximally toxic to both species. Deoxygenation suppressed hatching of D. mendotae resting eggs at oxygen concentrations of less than 5.5 mg/L and of Artemia sp. resting eggs at concentrations of less than 1 mg/L. Results suggest that UV radiation and deoxygenation are not viable treatment methods with respect to invertebrate resting eggs because of the impracticality of producing sufficient UV doses and the suppression of hatching at low oxygen concentrations. Results also suggest that the treatment temperatures required to kill resting eggs are much higher than those reported to be effective against other invertebrate life stages and species. The results, however, do not preclude the effectiveness of these treatments against other organisms or life stages. Nevertheless, if ballast tank treatment systems employing the tested methods are intended to include mitigation of viable resting eggs, then physical removal of large resting eggs and ephippia via filtration would be a necessary initial step.
Combined Support Force 536: Operation Unified Assistance.	The coordinated and combined use of military and civilian resources in response to large-scale natural disasters have not been frequent or well documented. Historically, the overall efficacy and successes of such endeavors are mixed. The benefits of early decisive military leadership, time-phased implementation of resources, a stratified assistance program, and a working relationship is illustrated during the tragic Asian tsunami disaster of 2004 to 2005. The tasking of III Marine Expeditionary Force and my experience as Joint Task Force Surgeon suggest deliberate civil-military planning is beneficial and can significantly reduce human suffering.
The Project HOPE and USNS Mercy tsunami "experiment".	A multifaceted, military-nongovernmental organization, public-private partnership was put together in 30 days to provide intermediate-stage medical support in response to the December 2004 tsunami. More than 200 civilian volunteer physicians, nurses, and medical professionals were recruited, oriented, and logistically supported by Project HOPE, an international nongovernmental organization, to serve aboard the hospital ship USNS Mercy off the coast of Banda Aceh, Indonesia, and subsequently in response to the related Nias Island earthquake. This "novel idea" resulted in tertiary care that was otherwise unavailable, expansion of the primary, dental, and optometric care available at the time, and Project HOPE programs on the ground that continue now, well after completion of the Navy mission. Furthermore, many of the members of this volunteer team would not have had the chance to participate as volunteers and would not have had exposure to the U.S. military, for which they have become staunch supporters. The "novel idea" of such a public-private partnership has met with a success that warrants doctrinal review for incorporation, programming, and planning to facilitate such engagement in the future.
Project HOPE volunteers and the Navy Hospital Ship Mercy.	This article describes, from the perspective of Project HOPE volunteers, the precedent-setting, military-civilian partnership in staffing the USNS Mercy as part of the rapid response of the United States to the overwhelming devastation and loss of life resulting from the tsunami off the coast of Indonesia. The article discusses the designation of Project HOPE as the non-governmental organization to be the single source of volunteers for the USNS Mercy mission (providing approximately 100 volunteers for each of two 30-day rotations), some issues facing Project HOPE and the contingent of volunteers in recruiting, orienting, training, and preparing for the mission, steps taken to make this a successful mission despite the ambiguity and uncertainties involved in arriving in the relief area 1 month after the disaster, and some recommendations for similar future missions. The Project HOPE volunteers quickly integrated with the cadre of Navy health professionals to deliver a broad range of high-quality care, including tertiary care, attesting to the professionalism and standards common to military and civilian medicine. The combined success of all organizations involved truly heralds a new era of medical diplomacy and goodwill in which the United States can take great pride.
Massachusetts General Hospital participation in Operation Unified Assistance for tsunami relief in Banda Aceh, Indonesia.	When Project HOPE invited Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH) to participate in a tsunami relief mission aboard the USNS Mercy hospital ship in January 2005, MGH responded swiftly and enthusiastically. Overcoming differences in medical styles and standards, as well as a variety of cultural and institutional differences, MGH volunteers collaborated successfully with Navy personnel and volunteers from other hospitals to deliver excellent care to a large number of tsunami victims. Lessons were learned regarding the need for better initial team orientation, more-open communication, and more-transparent decision-making; still, a rapid response of tertiary medicine, joining public and private resources, proved to be a powerful effective model.
The virtual network supporting the front lines: addressing emerging behavioral health problems following the tsunami of 2004.	The devastation wreaked by the 2004 tsunami in the Indian Ocean required extensive multinational and nongovernmental relief efforts to address the massive loss of infrastructure, people, and society. This article addresses approaches to behavioral incident management from a process perspective, through the lens of one official stateside channel of emergency operations. The process highlights the formation and connectivity of multidisciplinary teams that virtually supported the efforts of a seven-person, on-scene, behavioral health team aboard the USNS Mercy as part of Operation Unified Assistance in the Indian Ocean. Frontline health diplomacy and behavioral health relief efforts were greatly augmented by the virtual network of support from leading experts around the globe. Future disaster response and recovery efforts ought to build on the success of such virtual support networks, by planning for appropriate technology, expertise, and mutual aid partnerships.
Health diplomacy through collaboration and a story of hope in tsunami-ravaged Banda Aceh, Indonesia: A U.S. Public Health Service nurse officer perspective.	As a registered nurse, I have witnessed the powerful influence of bedside care for > 10 years. Yet my experience aboard the USNS Mercy--the first interagency deployment designed to provide humanitarian assistance to tsunami-stricken Indonesia--revealed a direct link between individual bedside care and health diplomacy. Despite desperate medical and humanitarian needs in the province of Banda Aceh, the Mercy was met with suspicion and resistance by the Indonesian government. In the first few days, it seemed uncertain that the Mercy would be asked to assist in any humanitarian capacity. The Mercy crew and staff agreed only to assist at the request of the Indonesian government. Ultimately it was the emergent medical needs of a 10-year-old survior, evacuated to the ship by Australian and German organizations, which established the seeds of health diplomacy between the United States and Indonesia. This article explores the ways in which health diplomacy can be fostered by individual medical and nursing care, through the story of one young survivor of the East Asian tsunami. My experience of compassionate and culturally centered care aboard the USNS Mercy touched the hearts and minds of care providers and, ultimately, won the trust of local government officials and the people of Banda Aceh.
The USNS Mercy and the changing landscape of humanitarian and disaster response.	Operation Unified Assistance was the United States' historic response to the tsunami that struck Southeast Asia on December 26, 2004. The USNS Mercy participated in Operation Unified Assistance from January to March 2005. Stationed off the coast of Sumatra, Indonesia, the Mercy's crew consisted of uniformed members of the U.S. Navy and U.S. Public Health Service and civilian members of Project HOPE. The Mercy's participation in Operation Unified Assistance provided a platform and context to study disaster-related psychological processes. Observations of crew members aboard the Mercy suggested similar psychological processes for disaster victims and responders. Responder risk and protective factors; disaster responders as potential psychological casualties; responder selection, preparation, and intervention strategies; and the hospital ship as a research platform are discussed. Such issues are generally relevant to the interaction between civilian volunteers and professional disaster responders.
Operation Unified Assistance population-based programs of the U.S. Public Health Service and international team.	The United States Public Health Service and several international relief agencies collaborated to create a series of programs for educational, governmental, and other behavioral health personnel in Aceh Province, Indonesia, following the tsunami of December 2004. This article provides a detailed account of the methodologies and approaches used to create the collaborations, as well as how they continue to be used by the people of Aceh through to this writing. Now known as the "Mercy Model," the approach represents a valuable set of programmatic approaches for rapidly developing and delivering large-scale behavioral health interventions in highly chaotic relief environments. It also details the potential benefits of using small teams on the ground, backed by much larger virtual teams to develop programming in real time across nations and continents, and do so in very short time frames.
Lessons learned from Indonesia: an outline.	The U.S. response to the December 26, 2004 tsunami in Indonesia heralded modifications of our responses to previous natural disasters, modifications that were highly successful and should be refined and repeated. These included seamless hand-off of responsibility from a line response unit to medical; the use of civilian medical practitioners working closely with military and public health service personnel aboard a Navy vessel; close prior communication and planning with the local medical, governmental, and U.N. establishment ashore before the arrival of the military medical unit; and with both line and medical units working closely in support of established ashore U.N. agencies instead of performing independent actions. The success of this total approach was unquestioned, and the lessons learned should be utilized fully in planning future disaster responses, both foreign and domestic.
"Just-in-time" mental health training and surveillance for the Project HOPE mission.	Immediately before the first sailing of the USS Mercy/Project HOPE relief mission to Southeast Asia, the mission leadership initiated presailing orientation and training and a program of survey-based health surveillance for mission participants. The training and surveillance efforts included a focus on mental health aspects of the mission.
Injury and illness aboard an Antarctic cruise ship.	The objective of this study was to determine the incidence and patterns of injury and illness among passengers aboard a cruise ship in Antarctica.
Radio aid to ships at sea.	To review the first 30 months' experience in providing medical advice by radio to the masters of vessels in the Indian and Southern Oceans. The Department of Emergency Medicine at Fremantle Hospital has provided this service since October 1987.
Combinatorial materials research applied to the development of new surface coatings III. Utilisation of a high-throughput multiwell plate screening method to rapidly assess bacterial biofilm retention on antifouling surfaces.	The authors recently reported on the development of a novel multiwell plate screening method for the high-throughput assessment of bacterial biofilm retention on surfaces. Two series of biocide containing coatings were prepared to assess the ability of the developed assay to adequately discern differences in antifouling performance: i) a commercially available poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) and silicone elastomer (DC) physically blended with an organic antifouling biocide Sea-Nine 211 (SN211) (4,5-dichloro-2-n-octyl-3(2H)-isothiazolone), and ii) a silanol-terminated polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS-OH) reacted with an alkoxy silane-modified polyethylenimine containing bound ammonium salt groups (PEI-AmCl). Three marine bacteria were utilised to evaluate the SN211 blended coatings (Pseudoalteromonas atlantica ATCC 19262, Cobetia marina ATCC 25374, Halomonas pacifica ATCC 27122) and the marine bacterium Cytophaga lytica was utilised to evaluate the PEI-AmCl/PDMS-OH coatings. The SN211 blended coatings showed a general trend of decreasing biofilm retention as the concentration of SN211 increased in both PMMA and DC. HPLC analysis revealed that reduction in biofilm retention was positively correlated with the amount of SN211 released into the growth medium over the length of the bacterial incubation. When compared to PMMA, DC consistently showed an equal or greater percent reduction in biofilm retention as the level of SN211 loading increased, although at lower loading concentrations. Evaluations of the PEI-AmCl/PDMS-OH coatings with C. lytica showed that all PEI-AmCl loading concentrations significantly reduced biofilm retention (p<0.0001) by a surface contact phenomenon. The high-throughput bacterial biofilm growth and retention assay has been shown to be useful as an effective primary screening tool for the rapid assessment of antifouling materials.
Combinatorial materials research applied to the development of new surface coatings IV. A high-throughput bacterial biofilm retention and retraction assay for screening fouling-release performance of coatings.	A high-throughput bacterial biofilm retention screening method has been augmented to facilitate the rapid analysis and down-selection of fouling-release coatings for identification of promising candidates. Coatings were cast in modified 24-well tissue culture plates and inoculated with the marine bacterium Cytophaga lytica for attachment and biofilm growth. Biofilms retained after rinsing with deionised water were dried at ambient laboratory conditions. During the drying process, retained biofilms retracted through a surface de-wetting phenomenon on the hydrophobic silicone surfaces. The retracted biofilms were stained with crystal violet, imaged, and analysed for percentage coverage. Two sets of experimental fouling-release coatings were analysed with the high-throughput biofilm retention and retraction assay (HTBRRA). The first set consisted of a series of model polysiloxane coatings that were systematically varied with respect to ratios of low and high MW silanol-terminated PDMS, level of cross-linker, and amount of silicone oil. The second set consisted of cross-linked PDMS-polyurethane coatings varied with respect to the MW of the PDMS and end group functionality. For the model polysiloxane coatings, HTBRRA results were compared to data obtained from field immersion testing at the Indian River Lagoon at the Florida Institute of Technology. The percentage coverage calculations of retracted biofilms correlated well to barnacle adhesion strength in the field (R(2)=0.82) and accurately identified the best and poorest performing coating compositions. For the cross-linked PDMS-polyurethane coatings, the HTBRRA results were compared to combinatorial pseudobarnacle pull-off adhesion data and good agreement in performance was observed. Details of the developed assay and its implications in the rapid discovery of new fouling-release coatings are discussed.
Engineered antifouling microtopographies - effect of feature size, geometry, and roughness on settlement of zoospores of the green alga Ulva.	The effect of feature size, geometry, and roughness on the settlement of zoospores of the ship fouling alga Ulva was evaluated using engineered microtopographies in polydimethylsiloxane elastomer. The topographies studied were designed at a feature spacing of 2 microm and all significantly reduced spore settlement compared to a smooth surface. An indirect correlation between spore settlement and a newly described engineered roughness index (ERI) was identified. ERI is a dimensionless ratio based on Wenzel's roughness factor, depressed surface fraction, and the degree of freedom of spore movement. Uniform surfaces of either 2 mum diameter circular pillars (ERI=5.0) or 2 microm wide ridges (ERI=6.1) reduced settlement by 36% and 31%, respectively. A novel multi-feature topography consisting of 2 mum diameter circular pillars and 10 microm equilateral triangles (ERI=8.7) reduced spore settlement by 58%. The largest reduction in spore settlement, 77%, was obtained with the Sharklet AF topography (ERI=9.5).
A fluid dynamic investigation of the Big Blade and Macon oar blade designs in rowing propulsion.	The purpose of this investigation was to examine the fluid dynamic characteristics of the two most commonly used oar blades: the Big Blade and the Macon. Scaled models of each blade, as well as a flat Big Blade, were tested in a water flume using a quasi-static method similar to that used in swimming and kayaking research. Measurement of the normal and tangential blade forces enabled lift and drag forces generated by the oar blades to be calculated over the full range of sweep angles observed during a rowing stroke. Lift and drag force coefficients were then calculated and compared between blades. The results showed that the Big Blade and Macon oar blades exhibited very similar characteristics. Hydraulic blade efficiency was not therefore found to be the reason for claims that the Big Blade could elicit a 2% improvement in performance over the Macon. The Big Blade was also shown to have similar characteristics to the flat plate when the angle of attack was below 90 degrees , despite significant increases in the lift coefficient when the angle of attack increased above 90 degrees . This result suggests that the Big Blade design may not be completely optimized over the whole stroke.
Comparisons of physical characteristics and performances among female collegiate rowers.	The physical characteristics and performances of female collegiate rowers were examined from two perspectives: level (novice, varsity) and years of participation (0, 1, 2, 3) in collegiate rowing. The participants were 90 female collegiate rowers from three US Division I university teams, of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA). Height, body mass, sitting height, arm span, skinfolds, limb circumferences, and skeletal breadths were measured. Leg length was estimated and Heath-Carter anthropometric somatotypes were calculated. Performance measures included lower-back flexibility, vertical jump, and 2-km time on a rowing ergometer. Descriptive statistics were calculated for the total sample and by level and years of experience. Multivariate analysis of variance and a Bonferroni-adjusted alpha level (P < 0.05) were used to test differences. Varsity rowers had significantly more rowing experience ( approximately 0.5 years) before college, higher vertical jumps ( approximately 3 cm), faster 2-km times ( approximately 25 s), and lower endomorphic characteristics than novice rowers. Anthropometric and performance differences among rowers by years of experience were negligible with the exception of slower 2-km times ( approximately 32 s) in rowers with no collegiate experience than rowers with collegiate experience. In conclusion, collegiate rowers differ to some extent in physical and performance characteristics by level and experience.
Trauma-related infections in battlefield casualties from Iraq.	To describe risks for, and microbiology and antimicrobial resistance patterns of, war trauma associated infections from Operation Iraqi Freedom.
Susceptibility to seasickness.	This paper explains part of the observed variability in passenger illness ratings aboard ships by gender, age and sickness history. Within the framework of a European project, 2840 questionnaires, gathered on several ships operating all over Europe, were analysed. Gender, age and sickness history all had a highly significant effect on seasickness. Furthermore, these effects could be characterized by two fixed parameters describing a general age effect, a third parameter dependent on sickness history and a fourth parameter dependent on gender. Female illness ratings peaked at an age of 11 years, 1.5 times as high as male ratings, which peaked at an age of 21 years. At higher ages, illness ratings decrease to only 20% of their maximum, reducing gender differences to zero. Passengers with a previous history of seasickness rated their illness about two times higher than those who had not felt sick before.
The Prestige oil spill and its economic impact on the Galician fishing sector.	The sinking of the Prestige oil tanker on 18 November 2002 off the coast of Galicia, Spain, had important economic, environmental and social ramifications. The aim of this paper is to carry out an initial analysis of the costs related to a halt in fishing activities in Galicia between November 2002 and December 2003. This involves three different steps: an assessment of the cost of the preventative and palliative measures introduced by Spanish public administrations (compensation for affected fishermen and shellfish fisherman); an indirect evaluation of the implications of the disaster (via a study of data on production); and a direct appraisal of the economic impact of the event (reduction in income), using questionnaires completed by a representative sample of fishermen and shellfish fisherman. The results obtained from these three methods of estimating losses are compatible. By December 2003, losses to the Galician fishing sector stood at an estimated EUR 76 million.
Posture control and the risk of industrial accident: a stabilographic investigation in a naval shipyard.	In a previous case-control study on the effect of impaired perceptual acuity on the risk of industrial injuries at a naval shipyard, three factors which might influence the perception and processing of sensory impressions--alcohol consumption, hearing loss exceeding 20 decibels (dB) and exposure to noise exceeding 82 dB(A)--were found to contribute to the risk of injury. According to recent reports, these factors can all lead to impaired posture control. Because in general about 40% of all accidents are associated with falling, tripping, slipping and the like, a supplementary study has been carried out to unravel possible confounding effects of posture control on these three risk factors. Cases (who had suffered two or more accidents during the preceding 4 years) and controls (who had been accident-free in the same period) were compared as regards posture control measured during silence or noise. No significant difference in posture control was found between cases and controls, either in silence or during exposure to heavy noise.
Comparison of the oxygen uptake kinetics of club and olympic champion rowers.	To test the hypothesis that elite rowers would possess a faster, more economic oxygen uptake response than club standard rowers.
Silent research vessels are not quiet.	Behavior of herring (Clupea harengus) is stimulated by two ocean-going research vessels; respectively designed with and without regard to radiated-noise-standards. Both vessels generate a reaction pattern, but, contrary to expectations, the reaction initiated by the silent vessel is stronger and more prolonged than the one initiated by the conventional vessel. The recommendations from the scientific community on noise-reduced designs were motivated by the expectation of minimizing bias on survey results caused by vessel-induced fish behavior. In conclusion, the candidate stimuli for vessel avoidance remain obscure. Noise reduction might be necessary but is insufficient to obtain stealth vessel assets during surveys.
Statistical analysis of hearing loss among navy personnel.	Hearing loss is one of the most common disabilities among sailors. Service members are posted to a variety of stations. Many of these posts have high noise levels, and particular ratings have high exposure. If assignments of higher risk can be identified, then focused prevention programs can be implemented. The focus of this study was to determine how hearing loss relates to service time spent aboard ships. To investigate which duty stations and ratings are at high risk for hearing loss, this study looked at medical hearing test records for nearly 268,000 enlisted sailors over the period of 1979 to 2004. Using both logistic and logarithmic binomial analyses, the study found that enlisted sailors who spent one-half of a 30-year Navy career assigned to a surface warship had a 13-percentage point higher probability of leaving the service with a reduction in the ability to hear, compared with someone who spent his or her whole career in a shore billet. If the same sailor spent two-thirds of his or her 30-year Navy career assigned to a surface warship, then the probability of hearing loss at the end of his or her career would increase by another 5 percentage points.
Assessment of vibration produced by the grinders used in the shipbuilding industry of Korea.	The objective of this study is to estimate the prevalence of finger blanching among the workers in a shipyard of Korea using the dose-response relationship suggested by ISO 5349. The characteristics of vibration exposure produced by six types of grinders were investigated. Vibration measurement was made under the real work conditions. Exposure time was estimated by questionnaire and direct observation. In addition, cold provocation tests were performed, and the results from the tests were compared with the estimated prevalence. As a result, 4 hour-energy-equivalent frequency-weighted accelerations of the finishing grinding (FG) and the prepainting grinding (PG) jobs were 6.23 m/s(2) and 13.39 m/s(2), respectively. The mean exposure time for holding the grinders was 4.64 h per day. Using the ISO 5349 method, it was predicted that after exposure to vibration for 10.79 yr, about a half of the FG workers could develop finger blanching. For the PG workers, the corresponding predicted latency was 5.02 yr. A discrepancy was found between the results from the ISO relationship and those from the cold provocation tests. A linear regression model was suggested employing vibration acceleration and vibration exposure time as explanatory variables for vascular dysfunction.
Evaluating an invasive species policy: ballast water exchange in the Great Lakes.	Improvements in environmental policy require an accurate diagnosis of the shortcomings of existing policy. We develop a model for assessing the efficacy of policy instruments aimed at reducing the introduction of nonindigenous species. The model identifies and accounts for several features of the nonindigenous species introduction-detection process that complicate interpretations of monitoring data. Specifically, the model includes explicit attention to the pathway of introduction, a probabilistic description of species detection, and the possibility of attenuation of species introductions over time. We apply this theoretical model to the case of mid-ocean ballast water exchange, which was implemented by the United States in 1990 for the North American Great Lakes. Contrary to other authors who take the recent increase in discoveries of nonindigeneous species (NIS) in the Great Lakes as evidence that ballast water exchange is ineffective, we find that the observed detection record could just as plausibly be explained by a lag of a few years between introduction and detection, even if ballast water exchange was 100% effective. Model results suggest that, under current monitoring regimes, several more years of data would be required to make a conclusive evaluation of ballast water exchange. Better estimation of the lag time between introduction and detection, and a shortening of that lag time with better monitoring, would allow more precise and timely evaluation of the efficacy of ballast water exchange and other policy instruments.
Predicting invasion risk using measures of introduction effort and environmental niche models.	The Chinese mitten crab (Eriocheir sinensis) is native to east Asia, is established throughout Europe, and is introduced but geographically restricted in North America. We developed and compared two separate environmental niche models using genetic algorithm for rule set prediction (GARP) and mitten crab occurrences in Asia and Europe to predict the species' potential distribution in North America. Since mitten crabs must reproduce in water with >15% per hundred salinity, we limited the potential North American range to freshwater habitats within the highest documented dispersal distance (1260 km) and a more restricted dispersal limit (354 km) from the sea. Applying the higher dispersal distance, both models predicted the lower Great Lakes, most of the eastern seaboard, the Gulf of Mexico and southern extent of the Mississippi River watershed, and the Pacific northwest as suitable environment for mitten crabs, but environmental match for southern states (below 35 degrees N) was much lower for the European model. Use of the lower range with both models reduced the expected range, especially in the Great Lakes, Mississippi drainage, and inland areas of the Pacific Northwest. To estimate the risk of introduction of mitten crabs, the amount of reported ballast water discharge into major United States ports from regions in Asia and Europe with established mitten crab populations was used as an index of introduction effort. Relative risk of invasion was estimated based on a combination of environmental match and volume of unexchanged ballast water received (July 1999-December 2003) for major ports. The ports of Norfolk and Baltimore were most vulnerable to invasion and establishment, making Chesapeake Bay the most likely location to be invaded by mitten crabs in the United States. The next highest risk was predicted for Portland, Oregon. Interestingly, the port of Los Angeles/Long Beach, which has a large shipping volume, had a low risk of invasion. Ports such as Jacksonville, Florida, had a medium risk owing to small shipping volume but high environmental match. This study illustrates that the combination of environmental niche- and vector-based models can provide managers with more precise estimates of invasion risk than can either of these approaches alone.
A biorobotic pectoral fin for autonomous undersea vehicles.	A biorobotic fin for autonomous undersea vehicles (AUVs) was developed based on studies of the anatomy, kinematics, and hydrodynamics of the bluegill sunfish pectoral fin. The biorobotic fin was able to produce many of the complex fin motions used by the sunfish during steady swimming and was used to investigate mechanisms of thrust production and control. This biorobotic fin is an excellent experimental tool and is an important first step towards developing propulsive devices that give AUVs maneuvering characteristics that match and exceed those of highly maneuverable fish.
Characterizing the relative contributions of large vessels to total ocean noise fields: a case study using the Gerry E. Studds Stellwagen Bank National Marine Sanctuary.	In 2006, we used the U.S. Coast Guard's Automatic Identification System (AIS) to describe patterns of large commercial ship traffic within a U.S. National Marine Sanctuary located off the coast of Massachusetts. We found that 541 large commercial vessels transited the greater sanctuary 3413 times during the year. Cargo ships, tankers, and tug/tows constituted 78% of the vessels and 82% of the total transits. Cargo ships, tankers, and cruise ships predominantly used the designated Boston Traffic Separation Scheme, while tug/tow traffic was concentrated in the western and northern portions of the sanctuary. We combined AIS data with low-frequency acoustic data from an array of nine autonomous recording units analyzed for 2 months in 2006. Analysis of received sound levels (10-1000 Hz, root-mean-square pressure re 1 microPa +/- SE) averaged 119.5 +/- 0.3 dB at high-traffic locations. High-traffic locations experienced double the acoustic power of less trafficked locations for the majority of the time period analyzed. Average source level estimates (71-141 Hz, root-mean-square pressure re 1 microPa +/- SE) for individual vessels ranged from 158 +/- 2 dB (research vessel) to 186 +/- 2 dB (oil tanker). Tankers were estimated to contribute 2 times more acoustic power to the region than cargo ships, and more than 100 times more than research vessels. Our results indicate that noise produced by large commercial vessels was at levels and within frequencies that warrant concern among managers regarding the ability of endangered whales to maintain acoustic contact within greater sanctuary waters.
High-intensity kayak performance after adaptation to intermittent hypoxia.	Live-high train-low altitude training produces worthwhile gains in performance for endurance athletes, but the benefits of adaptation to various forms of artificial altitude are less clear.
Identification of victims after a fire on the ferry "Scandinavian Star"]	Cooperation between Scandinavian Victim Identification Commissions was tested thoroughly after the ship disaster at Easter 1990. The fire claimed 158 victims all killed by poisonous smoke from a fast spreading fire, which went on for 36 hours. Many of the bodies were found incinerated in burnt-out cabins. More than 100 specialists were at work for 17 days before all missing persons were identified. The whole operation was led by the Norwegian authorities in Oslo. They decided that a search for human remains should be attempted in the destroyed part of the ship by help of police technicians, forensic pathologists and forensic dentists. The placing of forensic and dental expertise at the site of the disaster made it possible to identify all victims of the fire. Eighteen forensic trained dentists supported the work: thirteen from Norway, four from Denmark and one from Iceland. Two of the Danish dentists were placed at police headquarters in Copenhagen preparing the antemortem data from the Danish passengers on the ship.
Pontomedullary tear in a speedboat accident. Report of a case with MRI diagnosis.	A case of atlanto-occipital dislocation with incomplete pondomedullary brainstem tear is reported; it resulted from a high-speed motorboat accident. The 43 year old man exhibited a locked-in syndrome; the diagnosis was made with MRI and verified by autopsy. With modern methods of life support, prolonged survival after such injuries is unfortunately sometimes possible.
Dental identification in ferry disaster outside Zeebrugge]	The Herald of Free Enterprise disaster on the 6th of March 1987 just outside Zeebrugge harbour was without any doubt a disaster of major proportions. The identification of the victims had to be done in three phases each of them with its own specific work and problems. As the process of identification of bodies is an exacting science, and forensic odontology is known to be among the most reliable scientific methods in mass disasters, it is easily understood that forensic odontology took an active part in all three phases of the identification process.
Phytoplankton viability in ballast water from international commercial ships berthed at ports in Korea.	We investigated the viability of phytoplankton from ballast water of international commercial ships berthed at the ports of Ulsan and Onsan, Korea. The incubation conditions used were temperatures of 13 degrees C to represent ambient water and 20 degrees C to represent the thermal optimum, as well as nutrients in ballast water, shipside water, and F/2 medium. Phytoplankton in new (approximately 7 days) and old (20 and 2 days) ballast water survived when incubated under the nutrients typical of shipside water and F/2 medium at 13 degrees C and 20 degrees C. Colonization process was mostly dominated by Skeletonema costatum, Cylindrotheca closterium and pennate diatoms (<10 microm in diameter). S. costatum and C. closterium were persistent during incubation time, whereas pennate diatoms dominated in the three types of media from doubling to last phase of growth. This study showed that bloom-forming and pennate diatoms appear to be the species most likely to become successfully established in the two ports.
Dose response of caffeine on 2000-m rowing performance.	To determine whether a dose-response relationship exists between caffeine and 2000-m rowing performance.
Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis shows that bacterial communities change with mid-ocean ballast water exchange.	Ships carry ballast water for better stability and to control trim. However, the discharge of ballast water near ports is known to transport invasive species from one coastal area to another. The exchange of ballast water on the high seas is supposed to reduce such invasions of exotic species. In this study, we used denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) to analyze the composition of the bacterial community in ballast water before and after such a mid-ocean exchange, and we also measured total bacterial counts. Our findings confirmed that the ballast water was replaced by the mid-ocean exchange, as indicated by the marked change in the composition of the bacterial community. There was also a significant decrease in bacterial abundance after the mid-ocean exchange. Finally, our findings support the incubation hypothesis, because the composition of the bacterial communities changed over time within the same ballast water.
Present-day and future global bottom-up ship emission inventories including polar routes.	We present a global bottom-up ship emission algorithm that calculates fuel consumption, emissions, and vessel traffic densities for present-day (2006) and two future scenarios (2050) considering the opening of Arctic polar routes due to projected sea ice decline. Ship movements and actual ship engine power per individual ship from Lloyd's Marine Intelligence Unit (LMIU) ship statistics for six months in 2006 and further mean engine data from literature serve as input. The developed SeaKLIM algorithm automatically finds the most probable shipping route for each combination of start and destination port of a certain ship movement by calculating the shortest path on a predefined model grid while considering land masses, sea ice, shipping canal sizes, and climatological mean wave heights. The resulting present-day ship activity agrees well with observations. The global fuel consumption of 221 Mt in 2006 lies in the range of previously published inventories when undercounting of ship numbers in the LMIU movement database (40,055 vessels) is considered. Extrapolated to 2007 and ship numbers per ship type of the recent International Maritime Organization (IMO) estimate (100,214 vessels), a fuel consumption of 349 Mt is calculated which is in good agreement with the IMO total of 333 Mt. The future scenarios show Arctic polar routes with regional fuel consumption on the Northeast and Northwest Passage increasing by factors of up to 9 and 13 until 2050, respectively.
Outbreak of 2009 pandemic influenza A (H1N1) on a Peruvian Navy ship - June-July 2009.	On June 25, 2009, a naval cadet reported to the infirmary of a 355-crewman Peruvian Navy ship with a febrile acute respiratory infection (FARI) 5 days after the ship docked in San Francisco, California. Pandemic 2009 influenza A (H1N1) virus was suspected as the cause because it was circulating in the city at that time. A test for pandemic H1N1 by real-time reverse transcription--polymerase chain reaction (rRT-PCR) was positive. During the subsequent 3 weeks, as the ship continued its cruise, 77 additional crew members developed confirmed pandemic H1N1 influenza. The U.S. Naval Medical Research Center Detachment (NMRCD), in collaboration with the Peruvian Navy, conducted an investigation to describe the outbreak and determine the attack rate for pandemic H1N1 influenza on the ship. This report summarizes the results of that investigation, which indicated that, of the 85 patients with FARI, 78 (92%) tested positive for pandemic H1N1 by rRT-PCR. The attack rate for confirmed pandemic H1N1 influenza was 22.0%. The most frequent symptoms, other than fever, were cough, headache, nasal congestion, and malaise. No complications or deaths occurred. Patients were treated according to World Health Organization (WHO) influenza treatment guidelines; six patients received antiviral medication because of preexisting comorbidities. A shipboard respiratory surveillance program, which had been implemented aboard the ship before its departure from Peru, permitted the early detection of the outbreak. Subsequent implementation of control measures might have slowed the outbreak. Laboratory disease surveillance and adequate outbreak control procedures might reduce transmission of pandemic H1N1 influenza aboard ships.
Rehabilitative success of a social therapy sailing project]	This article wants to present figures about subsequent development of adolescents age fourteen to eighteen with behavioural disorders, who underwent a social therapeutic and educational treatment during a sailing tour, backed by German Federal Youth Welfare Act. 114 adolescents were investigated. The figures describe where they came from, their characteristics before and after the project and the drop outs. Finally a follow up study of 61 of the adolescents in the program can be presented. As a result it could be shown, that the adolescents were very unsufficiently described, that they were treated without success in other institutions before, and that they grew up under bad conditions. A fifth of them left the eight months program after three months. Within an average investigation time of three Years and two months more than half of the adolescents showed an improvement in at least one of the following criteria: further education, better social adaption, decrease of delinquency and further need of care in a psychiatric or educational institution.
Cancer among captains and mates on Norwegian tankers]	1,687 registered captains and mates from a Norwegian census in 1970 were monitored up to 1987. By matching the data from the census with data from the Norwegian Cancer Registry we discovered 104 cases of cancer. A control group of 376 was chosen among those without cancer. A nested case-control study design was used. The material was analysed using multivariate logistic regression. Increased risk of developing cancer was found in the group of seamen who had been working on tankers, especially among seamen who had been working as mate on these tankers. Exposure to chemicals is the major factor distinguishing tankers from other ships. Mates are exposed to chemicals while captains are not. The study indicates the presence of carcinogenic agents on these tankers.
Source apportionment of PM(10) and PM(2.5) at multiple sites in the strait of Gibraltar by PMF: impact of shipping emissions.	The impact of shipping emissions on urban agglomerations close to major ports and vessel routes is probably one of the lesser understood aspects of anthropogenic air pollution. Little research has been done providing a satisfactory comprehension of the relationship between primary pollutant emissions, secondary aerosols formation and resulting air quality.
Preliminary examination of oxidative stress in juvenile spring Chinook salmon Oncorhynchus tshawytscha of wild origin sampled from transport barges.	Migrating juvenile wild Chinook salmon Oncorhynchus tshawytscha, collected and loaded onto transport barges at Lower Granite Dam on the Snake River, were sampled from barges at John Day Dam, 348 km downstream, at 5 day intervals beginning in late April and ending in late May. An increase in lipid peroxidation and decrease in vitamin E in liver were observed from early to late in the barge transportation season. These changes seemed unrelated to changes in plasma cortisol or corresponding glucose levels, which declined from early to late in the season, or the concentration of n-3 highly unsaturated fatty acid (HUFA) concentrations in tissue but may be related to water temperature, which increased during the transport season, or other changes associated with the parr-smolt transformation.
Risk acceptance criterion for tanker oil spill risk reduction measures.	This paper is aimed at investigating whether there is ample support for the view that the acceptance criterion for evaluating measures for prevention of oil spills from tankers should be based on cost-effectiveness considerations. One such criterion can be reflected by the Cost of Averting a Tonne of oil Spilt (CATS) whereas its target value is updated by elaborating the inherent uncertainties of oil spill costs and establishing a value for the criterion's assurance factor. To this end, a value of $80,000/t is proposed as a sensible CATS criterion and the proposed value for the assurance factor F=1.5 is supported by the retrieved Protection and Indemnity (P&I) Clubs' Annual Reports. It is envisaged that this criterion would allow the conversion of direct and indirect costs into a non-market value for the optimal allocation of resources between the various parties investing in shipping. A review of previous cost estimation models on oil spills is presented and a probability distribution (log-normal) is fitted on the available oil spill cost data, where it should be made abundantly clear that the mean value of the distribution is used for deriving the updated CATS criterion value. However, the difference between the initial and the updated CATS criterion in the percentiles of the distribution is small. It is found through the current analysis that results are partly lower than the predicted values from the published estimation models. The costs are also found to depend on the type of accident, which is in agreement with the results of previous studies. Other proposals on acceptance criteria are reviewed and it is asserted that the CATS criterion can be considered as the best candidate. Evidence is provided that the CATS approach is practical and meaningful by including examples of successful applications in actual risk assessments. Finally, it is suggested that the criterion may be refined subject to more readily available cost data and experience gained from future decisions.
Energetics of best performances in elite kayakers and canoeists.	The objectives of this study were 1) to validate a new test to determine maximal oxygen uptake (V˙O2max) in kayakers, 2) to calculate the energy cost (Ck) of high-level kayakers and canoeists at submaximal and race speeds, and 3) to correlate individual best performances achieved in practice with those theoretically calculated. These were obtained from the individual relationships Ėr=f(t) and Ėmax=f(t), where Ėr is the metabolic power required to cover the distance in question and Ėmax is the maximal metabolic power. The time yielding Ėr=Ėmax was assumed to yield the best performance time.
An inconvenient sea truth: spread, steepness, and skewness of surface slopes.	Bréon and Henriot (BH) have collected eight million globally distributed satellite images of sunglitter, which yield a few simple, robust rules about the statistics of surface slopes: 1) constant angular spread, 2) linear steepness, and 3) sigmoid (near stepwise) skewness (all with respect to wind speed). Yet the information is sparse because it says nothing about time and space scales. The BH rules are an inconvenient sea truth, too fundamental to be ignored, too incomplete to be understood. With regard to BH rule 1 (BH:1), I suggest that the constant spread is associated with a wake-like geometry of the short gravities. Steepness linearity (BH:2) remains an enigma. Skewness (BH:3) appears to be correlated with a rather sudden onset of breaking for winds above 4 m s(-1). I do not think that skewness comes from parasitic capillaries. These are tentative conclusions; I look forward to intensive sea-going experiments over the next few years demolishing the proposed interpretations.
Retrospective investigation of an influenza A/H1N1pdm outbreak in an Italian military ship cruising in the Mediterranean Sea, May-September 2009.	Clinical surveillance may have underestimated the real extent of the spread of the new strain of influenza A/H1N1, which surfaced in April 2009 originating the first influenza pandemic of the 21(st) century. Here we report a serological investigation on an influenza A/H1N1pdm outbreak in an Italian military ship while cruising in the Mediterranean Sea (May 24-September 6, 2009).
Age and BMI interact to determine work ability in seafarers.	Seafaring is known to be a demanding occupation but the implications of ageing in seafarers are poorly understood.
Effects of UV/Ag-TiO2/O3 advanced oxidation on unicellular green alga Dunaliella salina: implications for removal of invasive species from ballast water.	The UV/Ag-TiO2/O3 process was investigated for ballast water treatment using Dunaliella salina as an indicator. Inactivation curves were obtained, and the toxicity of effluent was determined. Compared with individual unit processes using ozone or UV/Ag-TiO2, the inactivation efficiency of D. salina by the combined UV/Ag-TiO2/O3 process was enhanced. The presence of ozone caused an immediate decrease in chlorophyll a (chl-a) concentration. Inactivation efficiency and ch1-a removal efficiency were positively correlated with ozone dose and ultraviolet intensity. The initial total residual oxidant (TRO) concentration of effluent increased with increasing ozone dose, and persistence of TRO resulted in an extended period of toxicity. The results suggest that UV/Ag-TiO2/O3 has potential for ballast water treatment.
Differentiating occupational asthmatics from non-occupational asthmatics and irritant-exposed workers.	Serial peak expiratory flow (PEF) records have been recommended as a first-line investigation in workers suspected as having occupational asthma (OA).
Understanding uncertainty in seagrass injury recovery: an information-theoretic approach.	Vessel groundings cause severe, persistent gaps in seagrass beds. Varying degrees of natural recovery have been observed for grounding injuries, limiting recovery prediction capabilities, and therefore, management's ability to focus restoration efforts where natural recovery is unlikely. To improve our capacity for predicting seagrass injury recovery, we used an information-theoretic approach to evaluate the relative contribution of specific injury attributes to the natural recovery of 30 seagrass groundings in Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary, Florida, USA. Injury recovery was defined by three response variables examined independently: (1) initiation of seagrass colonization, (2) areal contraction, and (3) sediment in-filling. We used a global model and all possible subsets for four predictor variables: (1) injury age, (2) original injury volume, (3) original injury perimeter-to-area ratio, and (4) wave energy. Successional processes were underway for many injuries with fast-growing, opportunistic seagrass species contributing most to colonization. The majority of groundings that exhibited natural seagrass colonization also exhibited areal contraction and sediment in-filling. Injuries demonstrating colonization, contraction, and in-filling were on average older and smaller, and they had larger initial perimeter-to-area ratios. Wave energy was highest for colonizing injuries. The information-theoretic approach was unable to select a single "best" model for any response variable. For colonization and contraction, injury age had the highest relative importance as a predictor variable; wave energy appeared to be associated with second-order effects, such as sediment in-filling, which in turn, facilitated seagrass colonization. For sediment in-filling, volume and perimeter-to-area ratio had similar relative importance as predictor variables with age playing a lesser role than seen for colonization and contraction. Our findings confirm that these injuries naturally initiate seagrass colonization with the potential to recover to pre-injury conditions, but likely on a decadal scale given the slow growth of the climax species (Thalassia testudinum), which is often the most severely injured. Our analysis supports current perceptions that sediment in-filling is critical to the recovery process and indicates that in order to stabilize injuries and facilitate seagrass recovery, managers should consider immediate restorative filling procedures for injuries having an original volume >14-16 m3.
Overturning conclusions of Lévy flight movement patterns by fishing boats and foraging animals.	A surprisingly diverse variety of foragers have previously been concluded to exhibit movement patterns known as Lévy flights, a special type of random walk. These foragers range in size from microzooplankton in experiments to fishermen in the Pacific Ocean and the North Sea. The Lévy flight conclusion implies that all the foragers have similar scale-free movement patterns that can be described by a single dimensionless parameter, the exponent micro of a power-law (Pareto) distribution. However, the previous conclusions have been made using methods that have since been shown to be problematic: inaccurate techniques were used to estimate micro, and the power-law distribution was usually assumed to hold without testing any alternative hypotheses. Therefore, I address the open question of whether the previous data still support the Lévy flight hypothesis, and thus determine whether Lévy flights really are so ubiquitous in ecology. I present a comprehensive reanalysis of 17 data sets from seven previous studies for which Lévy flight behavior had been concluded, covering marine, terrestrial, and experimental systems from four continents. I use the modern likelihood and Akaike weights approach to test whether simple alternative models are more supported by the data than Lévy flights. The previously estimated values of the power-law exponent micro do not match those calculated here using the accurate likelihood approach, and almost all of them lie outside of the likelihood-based 95% confidence intervals. Furthermore, the original power-law Lévy flight model is overwhelmingly rejected for 16 out of the 17 data sets when tested against three other simple models. For one data set, the data are consistent with coming from a bounded power-law distribution (a truncated Lévy flight). For three other data sets, an exponential distribution corresponding to a simple Poisson process is suitable. Thus, Lévy flight movement patterns are not the common phenomena that was once thought, and are not suitable for use as ecosystem indicators for fisheries management, as has been proposed.
Traumatic fifth finger amputation due to pontoon boat railing design.	Boating is a common recreational activity that may subject its participants to specific patterns of injury.
A sensor system for detection of hull surface defects.	This paper presents a sensor system for detecting defects in ship hull surfaces. The sensor was developed to enable a robotic system to perform grit blasting operations on ship hulls. To achieve this, the proposed sensor system captures images with the help of a camera and processes them in real time using a new defect detection method based on thresholding techniques. What makes this method different is its efficiency in the automatic detection of defects from images recorded in variable lighting conditions. The sensor system was tested under real conditions at a Spanish shipyard, with excellent results.
Specificity of postural sway to the demands of a precision task at sea.	Mariners actively adjust their body orientation in response to ship motion. On a ship at sea, we evaluated relations between standing postural activity and the performance of a precision aiming task. Standing participants (experienced mariners) maintained the beam from a handheld laser on a target. Targets were large or small, thereby varying the difficulty of the aiming task. Targets were located in front of the participant or to the participant's right (requiring participants to look over the right shoulder), thereby varying the functional consequences (for the aiming task) of postural activity in different body axes. The torso was oriented toward the bow or toward the ship's side (athwartship), thereby varying the effects on postural activity of differential motion of the ship in its different axes. The weather was rough, producing high magnitudes of ship motion, which sometimes caused participants to step or stagger. Our manipulations influenced the magnitude and dynamics of head and torso movements, as well as the organization of movement in different axes. The results provide the first empirical confirmation that postural activity can be influenced by orientation of the torso relative to a ship. Despite powerful effects of ship motion, postural activity was influenced by variations in target location and in the difficulty of the aiming task, replicating subtle effects that have been observed on land. We discuss implications for hull design and the placement of workstations on ships.
Relationship between propagule pressure and colonization pressure in invasion ecology: a test with ships' ballast.	Increasing empirical evidence indicates the number of released individuals (i.e. propagule pressure) and number of released species (i.e. colonization pressure) are key determinants of the number of species that successfully invade new habitats. In view of these relationships, and the possibility that ships transport whole communities of organisms, we collected 333 ballast water and sediment samples to investigate the relationship between propagule and colonization pressure for a variety of diverse taxonomic groups (diatoms, dinoflagellates and invertebrates). We also reviewed the scientific literature to compare the number of species transported by ships to those reported in nature. Here, we show that even though ships transport nearly entire local communities, a strong relationship between propagule and colonization pressure exists only for dinoflagellates. Our study provides evidence that colonization pressure of invertebrates and diatoms may fluctuate widely irrespective of propagule pressure. We suggest that the lack of correspondence is explained by reduced uptake of invertebrates into the transport vector and the sensitivity of invertebrates and diatoms to selective pressures during transportation. Selection during transportation is initially evident through decreases in propagule pressure, followed by decreased colonization pressure in the most sensitive taxa.
Water Safety Plan on cruise ships: a promising tool to prevent waterborne diseases.	Legionella spp. and other waterborne pathogens have been isolated from various water systems on land based premises as well as on ships and cases of Legionnaires' disease have been associated with both sites. Peculiarities of cruise ships water systems make the risk management a challenging process. The World Health Organization suggests a Water Safety Plan (WSP) as the best approach to mitigate risks and hazards such as Legionella spp. and others.
The behavioural response of Australian fur seals to motor boat noise.	Australian fur seals breed on thirteen islands located in the Bass Strait, Australia. Land access to these islands is restricted, minimising human presence but boat access is still permissible with limitations on approach distances. Thirty-two controlled noise exposure experiments were conducted on breeding Australian fur seals to determine their behavioural response to controlled in-air motor boat noise on Kanowna Island (39°10'S, 146°18'E). Our results show there were significant differences in the seals' behaviour at low (64-70 dB) versus high (75-85 dB) sound levels, with seals orientating themselves towards or physically moving away from the louder boat noise at three different sound levels. Furthermore, seals responded more aggressively with one another and were more alert when they heard louder boat noise. Australian fur seals demonstrated plasticity in their vocal responses to boat noise with calls being significantly different between the various sound intensities and barks tending to get faster as the boat noise got louder. These results suggest that Australian fur seals on Kanowna Island show behavioural disturbance to high level boat noise. Consequently, it is recommended that an appropriate level of received boat sound emissions at breeding fur seal colonies be below 74 dB and that these findings be taken into account when evaluating appropriate approach distances and speed limits for boats.
The use of volunteer interpreters during the 201 0 Haiti earthquake: lessons learned from the USNS COMFORT Operation Unified Response Haiti.	On January 12, 2010, a 7.0 magnitude Richter earthquake devastated Haiti, leading to the world's largest humanitarian effort in 60 years. The catastrophe led to massive destruction of homes and buildings, the loss of more than 200,000 lives, and overwhelmed the host nation response and its public health infrastructure. Among the many responders, the United States Government acted immediately by sending assistance to Haiti including a naval hospital ship as a tertiary care medical center, the USNS COMFORT. To adequately respond to the acute needs of patients, healthcare professionals on the USNS COMFORT relied on Haitian Creole-speaking volunteers who were recruited by the American Red Cross (ARC). These volunteers complemented full-time Creole-speaking military staff on board. The ARC provided 78 volunteers who were each able to serve up to 4 weeks on board. Volunteers' demographics, such as age and gender, as well as linguistic skills, work background, and prior humanitarian assistance experience varied. Volunteer efforts were critical in assisting with informed consent for surgery, family reunification processes, explanation of diagnosis and treatment, comfort to patients and families in various stages of grieving and death, and helping healthcare professionals to understand the cultural context and sensitivities unique to Haiti. This article explores key lessons learned in the use of volunteer interpreters in earthquake disaster relief in Haiti and highlights the approaches that optimize volunteer services in such a setting, and which may be applicable in similar future events.
Distinguishing the impacts of inadequate prey and vessel traffic on an endangered killer whale (Orcinus orca) population.	Managing endangered species often involves evaluating the relative impacts of multiple anthropogenic and ecological pressures. This challenge is particularly formidable for cetaceans, which spend the majority of their time underwater. Noninvasive physiological approaches can be especially informative in this regard. We used a combination of fecal thyroid (T3) and glucocorticoid (GC) hormone measures to assess two threats influencing the endangered southern resident killer whales (SRKW; Orcinus orca) that frequent the inland waters of British Columbia, Canada and Washington, U.S.A. Glucocorticoids increase in response to nutritional and psychological stress, whereas thyroid hormone declines in response to nutritional stress but is unaffected by psychological stress. The inadequate prey hypothesis argues that the killer whales have become prey limited due to reductions of their dominant prey, Chinook salmon (Oncorhynchus tshawytscha). The vessel impact hypothesis argues that high numbers of vessels in close proximity to the whales cause disturbance via psychological stress and/or impaired foraging ability. The GC and T3 measures supported the inadequate prey hypothesis. In particular, GC concentrations were negatively correlated with short-term changes in prey availability. Whereas, T3 concentrations varied by date and year in a manner that corresponded with more long-term prey availability. Physiological correlations with prey overshadowed any impacts of vessels since GCs were lowest during the peak in vessel abundance, which also coincided with the peak in salmon availability. Our results suggest that identification and recovery of strategic salmon populations in the SRKW diet are important to effectively promote SRKW recovery.
Fluorescence microscopy techniques for quantitative evaluation of organic biocide distribution in antifouling paint coatings: application to model antifouling coatings.	A test matrix of antifouling (AF) coatings including pMMA, an erodible binder and a novel trityl copolymer incorporating Cu₂O and a furan derivative (FD) natural product, were subjected to pontoon immersion and accelerated rotor tests. Fluorescence and optical microscopy techniques were applied to these coatings for quantification of organic biocide and pigment distribution. Total leaching of the biocide from the novel copolymer binder was observed within 6 months of rotor immersion, compared to 35% from the pMMA coating. In pontoon immersions, 61% of the additive was lost from the pMMA coating, and 53% from the erodible binder. Profiles of FD content in the binders revealed an accelerated loss of additive from the surface of the CDP resulting from rosin degradation, compared to even depletion from pMMA. In all samples, release of the biocide was inhibited beyond the Cu₂O front, corresponding to the leached layer in samples where Cu₂O release occurred.
Modeling longitudinal changes in maximal-intensity exercise performance in young male rowing athletes.	The purpose of the current study was to examine the effect of age and body size upon maximal-intensity exercise performance in young rowing athletes. Male participants (n = 171) aged 12-18 years were assessed using an "all-out" 30-s rowing ergometer test, and reassessed after 12 months. The highest rate of performance development, which amounts to [mean(SD)] +34%(23%) and +32%(23%) for mean and maximal power output, respectively, is observed between the ages of 12 and 13, while this rate of development gradually declines as the athletes mature through adolescence. Performance increases with body size, and mass, stature and chronological age all proved to be significant (all p < .05) explanatory variables of mean power output, with respective exponents [mean(SE)] of 0.56(0.08), 1.84(0.30) and 0.07(0.01), and of maximal power output, with respective exponents of 0.54(0.09), 1.76(0.32) and 0.06(0.01). These findings may help coaches better understand the progression of rowing performance during adolescence.
Microscopic characterization of individual particles from multicomponent ship exhaust.	Particles sampled from the main and auxiliary ship diesel engine exhausts during a measurement campaign aboard a cargo ship are studied by SEM and energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX) microanalysis. Cluster analysis (CA) is applied to characterize the particles by separating them into distinct groups of similar morphology and chemical composition, representative of the particle types in the exhaust from the main and auxiliary engines. Raman microspectroscopy, Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy, inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry and ion chromatography provide the criteria for the clustering of a large data set of individual particles. To identify chemical and morphological features of heavy and distillate fuel oil-derived PM emissions, micromarkers discriminating between the different types of emitted particles are proposed. These micromarkers could enable the classification of multicomponent aerosols according to a source type. This characterization of complex multicomponent aerosols emitted by ship diesel engines improves the quantification of the contribution of shipping to ambient air particulates, and can help to identify a source type in apportionment studies.
Compositional properties characterizing commonly transported oils and controlling their fate in the marine environment.	Oil spills relating to shipping incidents remain of substantial concern with respect to marine pollution. Whilst most frequently a reactive approach is adopted in post-incident monitoring (for the specific product involved), this paper reports important physical and compositional characteristics of commonly transported oils and oil products to afford pro-active assessments. These properties include specific gravity, viscosity, elemental composition and, of particular relevance, the relative class compositions between aliphatics, aromatics, resins and asphaltenes. The latter were determined experimentally using thin layer chromatography with flame ionization detection. Diagnostic ratios of specific compounds are reported, statistically analysed, and their significance in identification of different oil types and the weathering processes is discussed. The influence of the properties on fates under different environmental conditions (selected to represent contrasting European regional seas) are examined using the NOAA Automated Data Inquiry for Oil Spills (ADIOS2) model. Relative contributions of the different environmental conditions and properties to the fate of the oil at sea are discussed.
Design of LED fish lighting attractors using horizontal/vertical LIDC mapping method.	This study employs a sub-module concept to develop high-brightness light-emitting diode (HB-LED) fishing light arrays to replace traditional fishing light attractors. The horizontal/vertical (H/V) plane light intensity distribution curve (LIDC) of a LED light source are mapped to assist in the design of a non-axisymmetric lens with a fish-attracting light pattern that illuminates sufficiently large areas and alternates between bright and dark. These LED fishing light attractors are capable of attracting schools of fish toward the perimeter of the luminous zone surrounding fishing boats. Three CT2 boats (10 to 20 ton capacity) were recruited to conduct a field test for 1 y on the sea off the southwestern coast of Taiwan. Field tests show that HB-LED fishing light array installed 5 m above the boat deck illuminated a sea surface of 5 × 12 m and achieved an illuminance of 2000 lx. The test results show that the HB-LED fishing light arrays increased the mean catch of the three boats by 5% to 27%. In addition, the experimental boats consumed 15% to 17% less fuel than their counterparts.
Physical readiness and obesity among male U.S. Navy personnel with limited exercise availability while at sea.	To evaluate differences in physical readiness and obesity in worksites with inherent limitations in exercise availability, utilizing data from U.S. Navy personnel assigned to submarines.
A case of unidentified, severe rash while deployed on Navy ship.	Rashes are common complaints on ships. With limited diagnostic tests and no specialists readily available, treating serious skin conditions is difficult. The patient in this case report had a gradually worsening, severe rash, with multiple possible etiologies, in which incorrect treatment could have resulted in significant morbidity. Moreover, medical evacuations are costly and detrimental to accomplishing Navy mission objectives. This report highlights the medical workup of an unidentified, severe rash with only limited diagnostic tools and a varied medical history.
Energy supplies and future engines for land, sea, and air.	The 2012 Critical Review Discussion complements Wilson, (2012), provides pointers to more detailed treatments of different topics and adds additional dimensions to the area of "energy". These include broader aspects of technologies driven by fuel resources and environmental issues, the concept of energy technology innovation, evolution in transportation resources, and complexities of energy policies addressing carbon taxes or carbon trading. National and global energy data bases are identified and evaluated and conversion factors are given to allow their comparability.
Absolute probability estimates of lethal vessel strikes to North Atlantic right whales in Roseway Basin, Scotian Shelf.	Vessel strikes are the primary source of known mortality for the endangered North Atlantic right whale (Eubalaena glacialis). Multi-institutional efforts to reduce mortality associated with vessel strikes include vessel-routing amendments such as the International Maritime Organization voluntary "area to be avoided" (ATBA) in the Roseway Basin right whale feeding habitat on the southwestern Scotian Shelf. Though relative probabilities of lethal vessel strikes have been estimated and published, absolute probabilities remain unknown. We used a modeling approach to determine the regional effect of the ATBA, by estimating reductions in the expected number of lethal vessel strikes. This analysis differs from others in that it explicitly includes a spatiotemporal analysis of real-time transits of vessels through a population of simulated, swimming right whales. Combining automatic identification system (AIS) vessel navigation data and an observationally based whale movement model allowed us to determine the spatial and temporal intersection of vessels and whales, from which various probability estimates of lethal vessel strikes are derived. We estimate one lethal vessel strike every 0.775-2.07 years prior to ATBA implementation, consistent with and more constrained than previous estimates of every 2-16 years. Following implementation, a lethal vessel strike is expected every 41 years. When whale abundance is held constant across years, we estimate that voluntary vessel compliance with the ATBA results in an 82% reduction in the per capita rate of lethal strikes; very similar to a previously published estimate of 82% reduction in the relative risk of a lethal vessel strike. The models we developed can inform decision-making and policy design, based on their ability to provide absolute, population-corrected, time-varying estimates of lethal vessel strikes, and they are easily transported to other regions and situations.
Missing people, migrants, identification and human rights.	The increasing volume and complexities of migratory flow has led to a range of problems such as human rights issues, public health, disease and border control, and also the regulatory processes. As result of war or internal conflicts missing person cases and management have to be regarded as a worldwide issue. On the other hand, even in peace, the issue of a missing person is still relevant. In 2007 the Italian Ministry of Interior nominated an extraordinary commissar in order to analyse and assess the total number of unidentified recovered bodies and verify the extent of the phenomena of missing persons, reported as 24,912 people in Italy (updated 31 December 2011). Of these 15,632 persons are of foreigner nationalities and are still missing. The census of the unidentified bodies revealed a total of 832 cases recovered in Italy since the year 1974. These bodies/human remains received a regular autopsy and were buried as 'corpse without name". In Italy judicial autopsy is performed to establish cause of death and identity, but odontology and dental radiology is rarely employed in identification cases. Nevertheless, odontologists can substantiate the identification through the 'biological profile' providing further information that can narrow the search to a smaller number of missing individuals even when no ante mortem dental data are available. The forensic dental community should put greater emphasis on the role of the forensic odontology as a tool for humanitarian action of unidentified individuals and best practise in human identification.
Trace elements in the sediments of a large Mediterranean marina (Port Camargue, France): levels and contamination history.	The study of trace elements (Cu, Zn, Pb, As, Hg) and butyltin concentrations in the sediments of Port Camargue enabled assessment of the levels and history of the contamination of the largest European marina linked with the use of antifouling paints. Surface sediments near the boat maintenance area were heavily contaminated with up to 1497 μg g(-1) of Cu, 475 μg g(-1) of Zn, 0.82 μg g(-1) of Hg, 94 μg g(-1) of Pb and over 10,000 ngSn g(-1) of tributyltin (TBT). High concentrations of Hg and TBT indicate ongoing sources of these elements despite the ban on their use as biocides in paints. Sediment cores provided records of contamination since 1969. The peak concentrations of As, Hg, Pb and TBT in the sediment profile reflect their presence on boat hulls when the marina was built at the end of the 1960s. Degradation of TBT in the sediments near the boat maintenance area is slow compared to other less contaminated area of the marina.
Setting limits for acceptable change in sediment particle size composition: testing a new approach to managing marine aggregate dredging.	A baseline dataset from 2005 was used to identify the spatial distribution of macrofaunal assemblages across the eastern English Channel. The range of sediment composition found in association with each assemblage was used to define limits for acceptable change at ten licensed marine aggregate extraction areas. Sediment data acquired in 2010, 4 years after the onset of dredging, were used to assess whether conditions remained within the acceptable limits. Despite the observed changes in sediment composition, the composition of sediments in and around nine extraction areas remained within pre-defined acceptable limits. At the tenth site, some of the observed changes within the licence area were judged to have gone beyond the acceptable limits. Implications of the changes are discussed, and appropriate management measures identified. The approach taken in this study offers a simple, objective and cost-effective method for assessing the significance of change, and could simplify the existing monitoring regime.
A screening procedure for selecting the most suitable dredged material placement site at the sea. The case of the South Euboean Gulf, Greece.	The selection of the best site for the placement of dredged sedimentary material (∼7,000 m(3)) from the Aliveri coastal area in the adjacent South Euboean Gulf (Greece) was accomplished through a screening procedure. The initial stage comprised the determination of physical, chemical, and biological characteristics of the dredged sediment before the commencement of any dredging operation. Grain size measurements, geochemical analyses together with the use of pollution/toxicity indices and empirical sediment quality guidelines, and the conduct of an acute toxicity test showed that the dredged material consisted of "unpolluted to slightly polluted" silty sands and sandy silts. However, the local authorities planned to place this sediment in the neighboring open sea area, i.e., the South Euboean Gulf, due to the absence of any beneficial use or alternative dumping option (i.e., dumping on public lands). Therefore, the next stage of the screening procedure, based on criteria such as the national legislation, seabed and seawater column characteristics, influence of the water mass circulation pattern on the post-placement migration of dredged sediment, impact on living resources and human activities (i.e., aquaculture and fishing), effect on significant marine sites (i.e., sites of scientific, ecological, and historical importance, navigation routes, military zones), and seafloor engineering uses, led to the evaluation of the suitability of the South Euboean Gulf as a potential dumping area. Then, the identification of the appropriate dredged material placement sites in the South Euboean Gulf was based on a cluster analysis, which tested the physicochemical resemblance of the dredged material and the surface sediments of 19 potential placement locations in the gulf. After the statistical process, only four sites situated near the north shoreline of the South Euboean Gulf were qualified as the best dredged material placement locations.
Disinfection by-products and ecotoxicity of ballast water after oxidative treatment--results and experiences from seven years of full-scale testing of ballast water management systems.	Since 2005, five different ballast water management systems (BWMSs) based on chlorination treatment have been tested by Norwegian Institute for Water Research (NIVA) according to guidelines from the International Maritime Organization (IMO). 25% and >50% of all the tested discharge samples exhibited acute and chronic toxic effects on algae, respectively. In most cases this toxicity was plausibly caused by a high free residual oxidant (FRO) level (>0.08 mg Cl/l). Of the 22 disinfection by-products (DBPs) that were identified in treated water at discharge, four compounds were at times found at concentrations that may pose a risk to the local aquatic environment. However, there seemed to be no clear indication that the measured DBP concentrations contributed to the observed algal toxicity. The addition of methylcellulose instead of lignin in the test water to comply with IMO requirements seemed to limit the formation of DBP.
Microbial dynamics in acetate-enriched ballast water at different temperatures.	The spread of invasive species through ships' ballast water is considered as a major ecological threat to the world's oceans. For that reason, the International Maritime Organization (IMO) has set performance standards for ballast water discharge. Ballast water treatment systems have been developed that employ either UV-radiation or 'active substances' to reduce the concentration of living cells to below the IMOs standards. One such active substance is a chemical mixture known as Peraclean(®) Ocean. The residual of Peraclean(®) Ocean is acetate that might be present at high concentrations in discharged ballast water. In cold coastal waters the breakdown of acetate might be slow, causing a buildup of acetate concentrations in the water if regularly discharged by ships. To study the potential environmental impact, microbial dynamics and acetate degradation were measured in discharge water from a Peraclean(®) Ocean treatment system in illuminated microcosms. In addition, microbial dynamics and acetate degradation were studied at -1, 4, 10, 15 and 25°C in dark microcosms that simulated enclosed ballast water tanks. Acetate breakdown indeed occurred faster at higher temperatures. At 25°C the highest bacteria growth, fastest nutrient and oxygen consumption and highest DOC reduction occurred. On the other hand, at -1°C bacterial growth was strongly delayed, only starting to increase after 12 days. Furthermore, at 25°C the acetate pool was not depleted, probably due to nutrient and oxygen limitation. This means that not all acetate will be broken down in ballast water tanks, even during long voyages in warm waters. In addition, at low temperatures acetate breakdown in ballast water tanks and in discharged water will be extremely slow. Therefore, regular discharge of acetate enriched ballast water in harbors and bays may cause eutrophication and changes in the microbial community, especially in colder regions. 
Tales from the sea: critical care nurses serving aboard the USNS Comfort and USNS Mercy.	During the springs and summers of 2009 to 2012, military and nongovernment organization nurses served side by side on hospital ships USNS Comfort and USNS Mercy to offer free humanitarian clinical services to developing nations in Central and South America and Southeast Asia. Translators were engaged to facilitate communication on shore and off. Host nation patients came on board for prearranged surgery and then were returned to land within a few days for follow-up care with local clinicians. Nurses had opportunities to go onshore to assist in clinics, teach as subject matter experts, or participate in construction/remodeling projects. Weather and other environmental conditions influenced the availability and services of the ships, which could also be deployed to provide support for global disaster relief. Professional and personal preparedness and flexibility were essential for operational effectiveness. The authors, both critical care nurses, learned many lessons in teamwork, education, and life at sea. Readers are encouraged to consider the challenges, hard work, and vast rewards of hospital ship service. 
Sparse array design using statistical restricted isometry property.	The numerical application of the statistical reduced isometry property (StRIP) and statistical null space property (SNSP) is presented and demonstrated for the design of underwater acoustic line arrays. This recent approach predicts the theoretical utility of specific subsampled arrays for compressive sensing. Three subsamplings are presented: Random, Golomb, and Wichmann. The Golomb array has no repeated spacings. The Wichmann array includes every possible interval of spacings. The SNSP is shown insensitive to the cases presented. The StRIP of the Golomb array predicts superior invertibility and is shown to perform well using at-sea data. 
Passive estimation of the waveguide invariant per pair of modes.	In many oceanic waveguides, acoustic propagation is characterized by a parameter called waveguide invariant. This property is used in many passive and active sonar applications where knowledge of the waveguide invariant value is required. The waveguide invariant is classically considered as scalar but several studies show that it is better modeled by a distribution because of its dependence on frequency and mode pairs. This paper presents a new method for estimating the waveguide invariant distribution. Using the noise radiated by a distant ship and a single hydrophone, the proposed methodology allows estimating the waveguide invariant for each pair of modes in shallow water. Performance is evaluated on simulated data. 
Legionella pneumophila in Norwegian naval vessels.	Little is known about the occurrence of Legionella pneumophila in water supply systems on board ships. Our aim was to study the occurrence of L. pneumophila in the water supply system on board Norwegian naval vessels as the basis for framing preventive strategies against Legionella infection.
Watercraft and watersport injuries in children: trauma mechanisms and proposed prevention strategies.	Watercraft-associated trauma (WAT) in children has received little attention so far, despite the potentially severe and debilitating resulting injuries. The aim of this study was to evaluate all cases of major watercraft-associated trauma admitted to the Children's of Alabama during the past 10 years, identify patterns in mechanism and injury, and propose future prevention strategies.
Extreme irgarol tolerance in an Ulva lactuca L. population on the Swedish west coast.	The herbicide irgarol 1051 is commonly used on ship hulls to prevent growth of algae, but as a component of self-eroding paints it can also spread in the surrounding waters and affect non-target organisms. The effect of irgarol on settlement and growth of zoospores from the marine macro algae Ulva lactuca from the Gullmar fjord on the Swedish west coast was investigated in the present study. The zoospores were allowed to settle and grow in the presence of irgarol, but neither settlement - nor growth inhibition was observed at concentrations of up to 2000 nmol l(-1). This is between 10 and 100 times higher than effect concentrations reported earlier for algae. Irgarol also induced the greening effect (4-fold increase in chlorophyll a content) in the settled zoospore/germling population, typical for photosystem II inhibitors like irgarol. This study support previous findings that irgarol constitutes a selection pressure in the marine environment.
Development and implementation of a novel measure for quantifying training loads in rowing: the T2minute method.	The systematic management of training requires accurate training load measurement. However, quantifying the training of elite Australian rowers is challenging because of (a) the multicenter, multistate structure of the national program; (b) the variety of training undertaken; and (c) the limitations of existing methods for quantifying the loads accumulated from varied training formats. Therefore, the purpose of this project was to develop a new measure for quantifying training loads in rowing (the T2minute method). Sport scientists and senior coaches at the National Rowing Center of Excellence collaborated to develop the measure, which incorporates training duration, intensity, and mode to quantify a single index of training load. To account for training at different intensities, the method uses standardized intensity zones (T zones) established at the Australian Institute of Sport. Each zone was assigned a weighting factor according to the curvilinear relationship between power output and blood lactate response. Each training mode was assigned a weighting factor based on whether coaches perceived it to be "harder" or "easier" than on-water rowing. A common measurement unit, the T2minute, was defined to normalize sessions in different modes to a single index of load; one T2minute is equivalent to 1 minute of on-water single scull rowing at T2 intensity (approximately 60-72% VO2max). The T2minute method was successfully implemented to support national training strategies in Australian high performance rowing. By incorporating duration, intensity, and mode, the T2minute method extends the concepts that underpin current load measures, providing 1 consistent system to quantify loads from varied training formats.
The road less taken: modularization and waterways as a domestic disaster response mechanism.	Preparedness scenarios project the need for significant healthcare surge capacity. Current planning draws heavily from the military model, leveraging deployable infrastructure to augment or replace extant capabilities. This approach would likely prove inadequate in a catastrophic disaster, as the military model relies on forewarning and an extended deployment cycle. Local equipping for surge capacity is prohibitively costly while movement of equipment can be subject to a single point of failure. Translational application of maritime logistical techniques and an ancient mode of transportation can provide a robust and customizable approach to disaster relief for greater than 90 percent of the American population.
Decadal trends in Indian Ocean ambient sound.	The increase of ocean noise documented in the North Pacific has sparked concern on whether the observed increases are a global or regional phenomenon. This work provides evidence of low frequency sound increases in the Indian Ocean. A decade (2002-2012) of recordings made off the island of Diego Garcia, UK in the Indian Ocean was parsed into time series according to frequency band and sound level. Quarterly sound level comparisons between the first and last years were also performed. The combination of time series and temporal comparison analyses over multiple measurement parameters produced results beyond those obtainable from a single parameter analysis. The ocean sound floor has increased over the past decade in the Indian Ocean. Increases were most prominent in recordings made south of Diego Garcia in the 85-105 Hz band. The highest sound level trends differed between the two sides of the island; the highest sound levels decreased in the north and increased in the south. Rate, direction, and magnitude of changes among the multiple parameters supported interpretation of source functions driving the trends. The observed sound floor increases are consistent with concurrent increases in shipping, wind speed, wave height, and blue whale abundance in the Indian Ocean. 
Calibrating passive acoustic monitoring: correcting humpback whale call detections for site-specific and time-dependent environmental characteristics.	This paper demonstrates the importance of accounting for environmental effects on passive underwater acoustic monitoring results. The situation considered is the reduction in shipping off the California coast between 2008-2010 due to the recession and environmental legislation. The resulting variations in ocean noise change the probability of detecting marine mammal vocalizations. An acoustic model was used to calculate the time-varying probability of detecting humpback whale vocalizations under best-guess environmental conditions and varying noise. The uncorrected call counts suggest a diel pattern and an increase in calling over a two-year period; the corrected call counts show minimal evidence of these features. 
Profile of trace metals accumulation in core sediment from Seine river estuary (docks basin).	The Seine is one of the most polluted rivers in Europe with respect to potentially harmful elements. It receives effluents from the upstream Paris urban and industrial area, and also local inputs from the heavily industrialized Rouen and Le Havre regions. The present study deals with this environmental topic and the concentrations of Cd, Ni, Pb, Hg, Zn and Cu were determined in sediment cores collected in the docks basin of Rouen harbour in 2008. The intensity of metal pollution during recent decades was evaluated using an enrichment factor (EF) and a geoaccumulation index (Igeo). The results of vertical distribution showed that the metal pollution in the past is much higher than in the surface sediment. Mercury was found to be the heaviest pollutant (with Igeo and EF exceeding 4 and 20, respectively), and Cd and Pb were the second most important pollutants. A slight contamination in Ni was observed with very low Igeo values. To estimate the sediment toxicity, simultaneously extracted metals/acid volatile sulfides ratio (SEM/AVS) was calculated. Low values of the toxicity index SEM/AVS were observed in the core sediments indicating the inexistence of metal potential toxicity. Also the concentrations of these trace metals were lower than the probable effect concentration values reported as consensus-based sediment quality guidelines for fresh water ecosystems.
Environmental risk assessment on capsaicin used as active substance for antifouling system on ships.	Biodegradation experiments were carried out with capsaicin to evaluate its degradability. The results show that capsaicin was readily biodegradable under aerobic conditions. The values of Kow and the calculated bioconcentration factor indicate that capsaicin have a low potential for bioconcentration. The fish acute toxicity tests conducted with Brachydanio rerio show LC50 for capsaicin was 5.98 mg L(-1). The tests of alga growth inhibition conducted with Selenastrum capricornutum suggest EC50 for capsaicin was 114 mg L(-1). The calculated PNEC (Predicted No Effect Concentration) was 4.9×10(-4) mg L(-1). The average PEC (Predicted Environmental Concentration) for OECD-EU commercial harbor and marina were 3.99×10(-6) and 2.49×10(-5) mg L(-1), respectively. These indicate that the PEC was much less than the PNEC for capsaicin. The low Kp value of capsaicin suggests the data about the risk of capsaicin to sediment organisms can be waived. According to the results from the analysis of the degradation, bioaccumulation, toxicity and accumulation in sediment, it can be concluded that capsaicin used as active substance for antifouling system on ships poses relatively low risk to marine environment.
Preliminary ecotoxicity assessment of new generation alternative fuels in seawater.	The United States Navy (USN) is currently demonstrating the viability of environmentally sustainable alternative fuels to power its fleet comprised of aircraft and ships. As with any fuel used in a maritime setting, there is potential for introduction into the environment through transport, storage, and spills. However, while alternative fuels are often presumed to be eco-friendly relative to conventional petroleum-based fuels, their environmental fate and effects on marine environments are essentially unknown. Here, standard laboratory-based toxicity experiments were conducted for two alternative fuels, jet fuel derived from Camelina sativa (wild flax) seeds (HRJ5) and diesel fuel derived from algae (HRD76), and two conventional counterparts, jet fuel (JP5) and ship diesel (F76). Initial toxicity tests performed on water-accommodated fractions (WAF) from neat fuels partitioned into seawater, using four standard marine species in acute and chronic/sublethal tests, indicate that the alternative fuels are significantly less toxic to marine organisms. 
Induction of meiotic gynogenesis in ship sturgeon Acipenser nudiventris using UV-irradiated heterologous sperm.	Diploid gynogenesis was induced in ship sturgeon Acipenser nudiventris using UV-irradiated sperm from Siberian sturgeon Acipenser baerii. The optimal condition for the retention of the second polar body in ship sturgeon was determined to be 10 min after activation/fertilization in experiments. The temperature of cold shock and its duration were 2.5 °C and 30 min, respectively. A total of 30 gynogens of known parentage from experimental treatments were screened using microsatellite DNA analysis, and uniparental transmission in meiogens was confirmed. The results show that heterologous Siberian sturgeon sperm is applicable as UV-irradiated sperm for the induction of gynogenesis in ship sturgeon. This technique may recover the critically endangered sturgeon species that are becoming extinct. 
Detection of occupational hazards in a large shipbuilding factory]	To provide evidence for the prevention and treatment of occupational diseases by the analysis of existing major occupational hazards and health conditions of workers in a large shipbuilding factory.
Measles outbreak on a cruise ship in the western Mediterranean, February 2014, preliminary report.	A measles outbreak occurred in February 2014 on a ship cruising the western Mediterranean Sea. Overall 27 cases were reported: 21 crew members, four passengers.For two cases the status crew or passenger was unknown. Genotype B3 was identified. Because of different nationalities of cases and persons on board,the event qualified as a cross-border health threat. The Italian Ministry of Health coordinated rapid response.Alerts were posted through the Early Warning and Response System.
Implementation and execution of civilian remote damage control resuscitation programs.	Remote damage control resuscitation is a recently defined term used to describe techniques and strategies to provide hemostatic resuscitation to injured patients in the prehospital setting. In the civilian setting, unlike the typical military setting, patients who require treatment for hemorrhage come in all ages with all types of comorbidities and have bleeding that may be non-trauma related. Thus, in the austere setting, addressing the needs of the patient is no less challenging than in the military environment, albeit the caregivers are typically not putting their lives at risk to provide such care. Two organizations have pioneered remote damage control resuscitation in the civilian environment: Mayo Clinic and Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. The limitations in rural Minnesota and shipboard are daunting. Patients who have hemorrhage requiring transfusion are often hundreds of miles from hospitals able to provide damage control resuscitation. This article details the development and implementation of novel programs specifically designed to address the varied needs of patients in such circumstances. The Mayo Clinic program essentially takes a standard-of-care treatment algorithm, by which the patient would be treated in the emergency department or trauma bay, and projects that forward into the rural environment with specially trained prehospital personnel and special resources. Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd has adapted a traditional military field practice of transfusing warm fresh whole blood, adding significant safety measures not yet reported on the battlefield (see within this Supplement the article entitled "Emergency Whole Blood Use in the Field: A Simplified Protocol for Collection and Transfusion"). The details of development, implementation, and preliminary results of these two civilian programs are described herein. 
Shipboard analytical flow cytometry of oceanic ultraphytoplankton.	Shipboard analysis of marine ultraphytoplankton by flow cytometry is a powerful method to classify these cells according to in vivo fluorescence characteristics and size. At present, this ataxonomic-allometric approach allows recognition of phycoerythrin-containing cyanobacteria, cryptomonads, very small red-fluorescing cells (presumably prochlorophytes), and eukaryotic algae of various sizes in many open ocean samples. The speed at which flow cytometric analysis can be performed on freshly collected samples permits a high degree of sampling resolution in both space and time. A flow cytometric view is presented of the vertical distribution of ultraphytoplankton at various sites in the north Atlantic and of experiments wherein phytoplankton were incubated in an artificial light gradient and under simulated in situ conditions.
Outbreaks of diarrhoeal illness on passenger cruise ships, 1975-85.	We reviewed data from the Vessel Sanitation Program (VSP), established by the US Public Health Service in 1975, to describe the epidemiology of shipboard diarrhoeal outbreaks, determine the risk of outbreak-related illness among cruise ship passengers, and evaluate changes in rates and patterns of shipboard diarrhoeal illness since the VSP was implemented. When the programme began, none of the cruise ships passed periodic VSP sanitation inspections; since 1978, more than 50% of ships have met the standard each year. On cruises lasting 3-15 days and having at least 100 passengers, diarrhoeal disease outbreaks investigated by the Centers for Disease Control decreased from 8.1 to 3.0 per 10 million passenger days between 1975-79 and 1980-85. The proportion of outbreaks due to bacterial pathogens (36%) did not change. Seafood cocktail was implicated in 8 of 13 documented food-borne outbreaks. The risk of diarrhoeal disease outbreaks on cruise ships appears to have decreased since implementation of the VSP but has not been eliminated.
Lead intoxication in shipscrapping employees in Taiwan]	The shipscrapping industry in Taiwan is located at Kaohsiung harbor. The scrapping yard at Kaohsiung can be divided into the "Da-Jen" area and the "Da-Lin" area, including 23 and 13 docks respectively. About 5000-8000 dock workers are employed in the yard. Because shipscrapping has been considered to be a "temporary" industry by the secondary metal dealers, so the dealers did not well equip and offer the appropriate safety and health programs for the industry. Of those who work on the docks the metal burners are those most continuously exposed to substantial amounts of inorganic lead and other unidentified metals along with health stresses such as noise, asbestos, explosions and accidents. In this study, 140 oxyacetylene torch metal burners (83 working on scrapping ships and 57 working at the yard) and 21 dock workers without direct lead exposure as the control group were included. The mean values of blood lead and urine lead were 63.22 +/- 22.04 micrograms/d1 and 122.15 +/- 44.10 micrograms/1 for metal burners on the ship, and 65.25 +/- 37.11 micrograms/d1 and 101.54 +/- 37.11 micrograms/1 for the metal burners at the yard, values for the control group were 37.24 +/- 20.63 micrograms/d1 and 67.62 +/- 38.39 micrograms/1 respectively. The subjective symptoms mainly were fatigue, numbness over extremities, headache and dizzness. There were 49 metal burners, 35% of the total burners examined in this study, whose blood lead exceeded 80 micrograms/d1 with more than 2 suspicious intoxication symptoms. The precautions in terms of environmental mornitoring, medical surveillance and engineering control should be taken.
Work at sea: a study of sleep, and of circadian rhythms in physiological and psychological functions, in watchkeepers on merchant vessels. I. Watchkeeping on board ships: a methodological approach.	The safety of a ship depends substantially on its bridge watchkeepers, whose alertness and efficiency must be maintained at all hours of the day and night. Fatigue, circadian rhythms, and sleep disruption occasioned by the unusual working hours of these personnel may all affect their performance. A methodology for assessing the magnitude of this problem is proposed. The application of this methodology in a large-scale shipboard study of merchant mariners on extended voyages is then described, and details given of the techniques used to measure sleep and activity, and temporal variations in a range of physiological und psychological parameters. A summary of the data collected in the study is provided as a reference point for the reports on the different aspects of the results that follow in subsequent articles.
Immune response in shipyard workers with x ray abnormalities consistent with asbestos exposure.	The association of cellular and humoral immune responses with asbestos exposure was studied in two groups of 150 workers each from a shipyard population and compared with a population of Red Cross blood donors. One of the shipyard groups had both chest x ray evidence of asbestos exposure and work assignments that necessitated direct handling of asbestos. The other shipyard group had normal chest x ray films and no job assignments involving the direct handling of asbestos. Cellular immune responses studied were mitogen activation and measures of T helper and T suppressor cells. Humoral immune measures were IgG, IgA, and IgM. In shipyard workers with asbestos related x ray abnormalities there was a significant increase in pokeweed mitogen stimulation. In both shipyard groups compared with Red Cross blood donors were found (1) significantly higher IgG and IgA levels and (2) greater numbers of T helper and T suppressor cells; because of the disproportionately large number of T suppressor cells, Th/Ts ratios were lower than in the Red Cross controls. Observations of differences in humoral and cellular immune response may point the way to the early diagnosis of the clinical manifestation of asbestos related disease.
Work at sea: a study of sleep, and of circadian rhythms in physiological and psychological functions, in watchkeepers on merchant vessels. II. Sleep duration, and subjective ratings of sleep quality.	Sleep length and sleep quality scores were collected on board ships over periods of up to two weeks from 38 watchkeepers working a '4-on/8-off routine' and 29 dayworkers. All watchkeepers exhibited fragmented sleeping patterns, which indicated a lack of adaptation of the sleep/wakefulness cycle to the hours of work. There were only slight differences in total sleep length between watchkeepers and dayworkers, however, both groups did not obtain an adequate amount of sleep. Within the watchkeeping crews the 3rd Officers had by far the shortest sleep length. Concerning sleep quality, daytime sleep was generally given the lowest ratings, whereas sleep starting before midnight was on average evaluated as the best, both by watchkeepers and dayworkers. Watchkeeping personnel do not normally have any "days off" during a voyage so that missed sleep might even amount to a sleep deficit. A solution for this problem could perhaps be a new, stabilized system that allows a single uninterrupted sleep, which is required for full recuperation, to be taken each day.
Study of noise exposure and high blood pressure in shipyard workers.	A cross-sectional and case-reference study of occupational noise exposure and blood pressure was conducted in a shipyard company. There were 158 male workers from the higher noise environment (greater than 85 dBA) and 158 matched workers from a lower noise environment (less than 80 dBA). The workers in the higher noise environment had higher systolic and diastolic blood pressure (p less than .05) after adjusting for confounding factors. Comparison of regression revealed that there is no different increase in blood pressure with age in different environmental noise exposure. Based on 63 matched hypertensive-normotensive pairs from 2,730 shipyard workers, the relative risk of hypertension among workers exposed to an over-85-dBA acoustic environment, compared to those under 80 dBA, was 2.38. It is suggested that there may be a population of noise-exposed workers at increased risk of high blood pressure.
Historical perspective on asbestos: policies and protective measures in World War II shipbuilding.	Current public health consequences of poorly controlled utilization of asbestos in the past can be traced back, in part, to decisions made 45 or more years ago. This paper focuses on the extensive use of asbestos as a fireproofing and insulating material in shipbuilding in the 1940s, when World War II industrial expansion brought about a hitherto unprecedented rise in the amount of asbestos utilized. Twenty years after World War II, asbestos diseases began to manifest themselves, affecting thousands of shipyard workers as well as other workers who had been exposed in the 1940s and during the postwar period. By scrutinizing past actions, the paper argues that social forces, as well as science and technology, affect the setting of priorities and the determination of policy regarding needed but hazardous materials.
Outbreak of respiratory illness on board a ship cruising to ports in southern Europe and northern Africa.	A large outbreak of influenza-like and diarrhoeal illness took place over a period of 21 days in April 1984 on board a ship cruising to ports in southern Europe and northern Africa. A cohort study of the 418 passengers was made by postal questionnaire and personal interview. Of the 391 passengers who were interviewed or who returned a questionnaire, 335 (86%) were affected. Of the ill passengers, 295 (88%) had an influenza-like illness. These included 20 with signs of lower respiratory tract infection. In 24 passengers, a viral infection was diagnosed. Influenza B virus infection was identified in 14 cases; other diagnoses were influenza A, para-influenza, respiratory syncytial virus and Epstein-Barr virus infections. In two of the 81 patients tested for Legionella antibodies, a titre of 128 was found; in 16 and 44 patients, titres of 64 and 32 respectively. The outbreak was thus evidently caused by multiple pathogens mainly affecting the respiratory tract. Although most of the passengers acquired their infections on board the ship, a common source was not discovered. A steep rise in the epidemic curve the day after the air-conditioning was switched on, however, is worth noting. If and when similar instances of the 'Sick Boat Syndrome' recur, a search for environmental sources of infection is to be recommended.
Problems of occupational rehabilitation in the shipbuilding industry. II. Rehabilitation in a group of ship welders]	The causes of rehabilitation of welders employed in the Maritime Shipyard in Szczecin have been analysed for the period 1979-1984. The main causes were found to be diseases of the musculo-osseous system (18.9%) and respiratory tract (14.8%). Temporary rehabilitation covered 67.3% of welders (2/3 for respiratory tract diseases), whereas permanent rehabilitation--23.5% (2/3 for musculo-osseous diseases).
Staphylococcal food poisoning on a cruise ship.	Two waves of vomiting and/or diarrhoea affected approximately 215 of the 715 passengers on a Caribbean cruise ship. The outbreak was independently associated with eating cream-filled pastries at two separate meals. Staphylococcus aureus phage type 85/+ was isolated from cases and pastry cooks, but not from controls. This is the first well-documented outbreak of staphylococcal food poisoning on a cruise ship.
Malignant mesothelioma of the pleura in Barrow-in-Furness.	Ffty cases of malignant pleural mesothelioma (47 men and 3 women) have been diagnosed during the period 1966-76 in Barrow-in-Furness, all of them histologically proved and accepted by the Pneumoconiosis Panel. At the time of writing only three survive. There was a history of industrial exposure to asbestos in all 47 men, who had worked in various trades in the shipyard, as had one of the women. One of the women was married to a shipyard plumber, who may have brought home asbestos dust on his clothes. Only one patient, a housewife, aged 28 at diagnosis, had no known asbestos contact. The asbestos content of the lungs has been measured in the last 20 cases, in 18 of whom it was found to be substantially greater than the accepted levels for the general population. In a small number studied by electron microscopy, the predominant fibre was crocidolite. A positive histological diagnosis was achieved in 39 subjects during life in the expectation of securing industrial compensation, but, in spite of this, less than half of the dependants are currently receiving payments. Metastases, though never clinically apparent, were frequent at necropsy.
Radiological evidence of asbestos disease among ship repair workers.	Asbestos materials are now infrequently used in new ship construction. However, significant amounts were used in vessels constructed before 1975. As a consequence, for the next 30 or more years, the potential for asbestos exposure in the repair of such vessels will remain. We studied 286 workers who were 30 or more years from onset of employment in ship repair work. Eighty-six percent had radiological evidence of asbestosis, and five instances of previously undiagnosed lung cancer were found. This suggests that unless industrial hygiene precautions are taken in the future repair of vessels that have been built with asbestos, we will add additional decades to the legacy we already face as the result of uncontrolled shipyard exposures of the past.
Nickel concentrations in plasma and urine of shipyard workers.	Nickel concentrations were analyzed by electrothermal atomic absorption spectrophotometry in plasma from workers at a repair shipyard and a construction shipyard. Four groups of workers were studied: (a) 62 welders, (b) 31 painters, (c) 27 riggers/carpenters, and (d) 21 shipfitters/pipefitters. Controls were 15 hospital workers and 28 retirees at the repair shipyard. In the combined groups of all tested workers at the repair shipyard, increased plasma Ni concentrations (greater than 5.2 micrograms/liter) occurred in 32 of 82 subjects (39%): (p less than .05 vs increased plasma Ni concentrations in 13 of 59 workers at the construction shipyard [22%], and p less than .001 vs increased plasma Ni concentrations in 1 of 43 controls [2%]). At both shipyards, plasma Ni concentrations were higher in the groups of painters and shipfitters/pipefitters than in the groups of welders and riggers/carpenters. In random urine specimens from workers at the construction shipyard. Ni concentrations exceeded 5.2 micrograms/liter in 9 of 24 welders [38%], (p less than .01 vs increased urine Ni concentrations in 1 of 15 controls [hospital workers]). The ratios of plasma/urine nickel concentrations were higher in painters (p less than .05) and lower in welders (p less than .05) than in other workers at the construction shipyard. Increased concentrations of nickel in body fluids of shipyard workers are attributed to exposures to nickel compounds and alloys in the working environment.
Lung cancer prevalence among shipyard workers.	The prevalence of lung cancer has been ascertained during a survey of 286 shipyard workers all 20 to 45 years from onset of asbestos exposure in shipyard work. Two men had had previous thoracic surgery for lung cancer. In addition, bronchogenic carcinoma was found in five men. One was among the 35 men less than 30 years in the yard; three were in the 191 who had begun work 30 to 39 years before, and one was in the group of 60 men who were 40+ years from onset. The potential usefulness of large-scale surveillance programs for the early detection of lung cancer among current and former shipyard workers is discussed.
The hospital that's docked at Pier 15.	The Floating Hospital, a ship berthed in New York City's South Street Seaport Museum, provides health education and other services to the city's medically underserved residents.
Carbon monoxide poisoning among recreational boaters.	To describe the case characteristics of a series of patients poisoned with carbon monoxide (CO) while boating for recreation.
Reasons why the dockers lost their fitness for work--a retrospective survey.	Evaluation of the reasons for loss of capability for performing heavy and very heavy loading operations was based on retrospective population examinations carried out in two loading sites in ports. Enrolled in the study were 701 people, their working period in port over 5 years (mean 18.9 +/- 6.1 years). The age of the examined averaged 42.4 +/- 11.3 years. In course of 6 years 32.4% of this group changed their work due to structural changes in port, 67.6% due to loss of health qualifications. In the evaluation of health reasons predominant were diseases of the peripheral nervous system, of musculoskeletal system and of connective tissue (22.4%). Second as to the incidence were chronic diseases of the respiratory system and upper respiratory tracts (17.8%), in that 6% of allergies and 1.3% tuberculosis. Next were diseases of the circulatory system (13.3%), out of 3.8% were hypertension and 4.7% heart ischaemic disease. Last position was occupied by diseases of the stomach and duodenum (7.1%) and posttraumatic states of the muscular and osseous system (4.3%). Changing of the working post for health reasons up to 30th year of age occurred in 6.8%, up to 40th year in 10.1% and to 50th year of life in 62.2% people examined. Change of the working post due to professional or educational promotion occurred chiefly below the age of 40.
Malaria as an occupational disease.	In Poland, cases of imported malaria are noted at present. In Polish citizens who work abroad, malaria is considered as an occupational disease. 95 cases of malaria in Polish citizens treated at the Clinic of the Institute of Maritime and Tropical Medicine in 1984-1993 were subjected to retrospective analysis, considering their occupational, epidemiological and clinical aspects as well as permanent sequelae of the disease. The most numerous groups among the patients examined were seafarers, fishermen, priests and missionaries. They were infected mostly in West Africa, during the first year of work. The majority of patients neglected chemoprophylaxis of malaria. In about 1/3 of patients, the resulting incapacity for work exceeded 1 month and more. In 7% of patients, 6 months after the treatment, permanent sequelae of the disease were observed: damage to the central nervous system, liver, kidneys and heart. The social and material costs of this invasive occupational disease were high. Malaria is an important health problem in Poles who work in endemic areas. Malaria prevention should be intensified.
Distant health effects of using asbestos in shipyards and in co-operating plants.	A survey was conducted during a 15-years period (1981-1994) among a group of workers employed in shipyards and in cooperating plants, who were exposed to asbestos. In a group of 681 people surveyed a growing incidence of asbestosis of the lung was revealed: from 3.9% in 1981 to 17.9% in 1994. Since 1990, 19 persons have been found to have malignant neoplasms, in that number in 9 cases the location of neoplasm was evidently associated with the effects of the asbestos dust (3 mesotheliomas of the pleura and 6 bronchial cancers of the lungs). The smoking habit was probably a contributing factor in the occurrence of these diseases.
Chemical exposure of deck crew on product tankers loading the cargo with the hatches open.	Exposure of the deck crew to volatile hydrocarbon compounds and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon PAH compounds was observed and monitored on two Norwegian product tankers. The tankers were loading their cargo with the hatches open during the monitoring period. One of the tankers loaded gas oil. This type of cargo is not volatile, and very low concentrations of the monitored chemical PAH compounds were found on this tanker. The second tanker loaded gasoline. On this tanker high concentrations of hydrocarbon compounds were found; benzene was as high as 55 ppm, toluene was as high as 34 ppm, hydrocarbon compounds in the C5-C7 range were as high as 570 ppm, n-hexane was as high as 25 ppm. The levels of PAH-compounds were low. None of the seamen working on the deck did use respiratory protective equipment during the work. The exposure of the deck crew to volatile hydrocarbon compounds ought to be reduced on product tankers. Better routines concerning the use of respiratory protective equipment is an immediate action which ought to take place. Loading volatile cargo like gasoline with the hatches open should be avoided.
The Marchioness disaster: preliminary report on psychological effects.	The psychological after-effects on 27 survivors of the Marchioness riverboat disaster of 20 August 1989 are described. On measures of intrusive memories and psychological difficulties these subjects are significantly higher than population norms, and somewhat higher than psychiatric in-patient populations. Personality measures taken after the disaster show that neuroticism scores are very much higher than population norms, but personality measures were not correlated with distress.
High-resolution computed tomography in the early detection of asbestosis.	A group of 21 former asbestos sprayers was studied with high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT), and the findings were compared with radiographic, exposure and lung function variables. HRCT was superior to plain radiography in detecting parenchymal and pleural changes. It showed changes indicative of lung fibrosis, especially septal lines and parenchymal bands, in 9 of the 12 subjects (75%) with a plain radiographic category of 0/0 in the International Labour Office (ILO) 1980 classification of radiographs of pneumoconioses. The HRCT findings were classified according to a method developed by the authors, and an HRCT parenchymal score was calculated. The HRCT revealed pleural plaques in 19 of the 21 (90%) asbestos sprayers, whereas plain radiography detected pleural plaques in only 5 (24%) sprayers. Changes in the visceral pleura were detected twice as often with HRCT as with plain radiography. In the group without radiographic evidence of lung fibrosis (ILO < 1/0) and without evidence of emphysema in either the radiographs or the HRCT examination, there was a correlation between the HRCT parenchymal score and diffusion capacity (r = -0.64, P = 0.03) and total lung capacity (r = -0.61, P = 0.04). This finding indicates that parenchymal changes seen only with HRCT are of clinical importance. The study strongly suggests that for asbestos-exposed workers with an ILO classification of < 1/0 and functional impairment, an HRCT examination should always be considered.
Incidence of cancer among welders of mild steel and other shipyard workers.	The incidence of cancer among 4571 shipyard workers with first employment between 1940 and 1979, including 623 welders of mild steel, was investigated in a historical cohort study. The loss to follow up was 1.1%. The total number of deaths was 1078 (974.5 expected) and there were 408 cases of cancer v 361.3 expected. Sixty five cases of lung cancer were found v 46.3 expected based on the national rates for males. Four pleural mesotheliomas had occurred (1.2 expected), none among the welders. An excess of lung cancers was found among the welders (nine cases v 3.6 expected). There were six cases of lung cancer v 1.6 expected in a high exposure group of 255 welders. A survey of the smoking habits as of 1984 indicated 10%-20% more daily smokers among the shipyard production workers than among Norwegian males. Exposure to smoking and asbestos were confounding variables in this study.
The significance of asbestos exposure in the diagnosis of mesothelioma: a 28-year experience from a major urban hospital.	A continued increase in the incidence of diffuse mesothelioma has been attributed to greater industrial use of asbestos but is also due in part to wider acceptance of this tumor by pathologists. In this retrospective study, the epidemiology, clinical presentation, and pathology of asbestos and non-asbestos-related mesothelioma from a major urban hospital were reviewed. Of the 36 cases of mesothelioma on file, 19 were not associated with exposure to asbestos. Although a retrospective study raises the possibility of inadequate occupational histories, the lack of history of asbestos exposure correlated with postmortem histology by light microscopy. When postmortem material was reviewed, evidence of asbestos exposure was present in all cases of mesothelioma with history of exposure to asbestos, and in no cases in which the patient denied history of asbestos exposure. Using strict histologic and histochemical criteria, the diagnosis of mesothelioma was confirmed in 8 of 9 patients with asbestos-related mesothelioma but in only 4 of 13 cases of non-asbestos-related mesothelioma. The diagnosis of diffuse methelioma is often difficult to make even wtih complete autopsy examinations. It should be entertained only with adherence to strict clinical and pathologic criteria, especially in women with no history to exposure to asbestos dust.
Surveillance of deaths on board Danish merchant ships, 1986-93: implications for prevention.	To describe and analyse the types and circumstances of all natural and non-natural deaths among seamen on board Danish merchant ships.
A cluster of Legionnaires' disease in a community hospital--a clue to a larger epidemic.	Four patients with atypical pneumonias admitted within a 1-week period to a community hospital were suspected and confirmed to have Legionnaires' disease. The patients had a common travel history. This cluster of cases uncovered a larger epidemic associated with cruise travel.
Predominant role of peripheral chemoreceptors in the termination of apnea in maturing newborn lambs.	Apneas are very common and normal in newborns but may become life threatening if they are not terminated appropriately. The aim of this study in newborn lambs was to investigate the influence on apnea termination of postnatal maturation, peripheral chemoreceptor function, and hypoxia. Apneas were induced by passive hyperventilation at varying inspired O2 fraction levels. The apnea termination threshold PCO2 (PATTCO2) was defined as the arterial PCO2 value at the first breath after the apnea. Three groups of awake intubated lambs were studied: 1) intact lambs tested at both 1 and 15 days of life, 2) intact 1-day-old lambs with central tissue hypoxia induced by CO inhalation, and 3) 1-day-old lambs with carotid body denervation (CBD). In individual lambs and regardless of age and carotid body function, there was a PO2-PCO2 response curve that was a determinant for the termination of an apnea. PATTCO2 invariably increased when arterial PO2 increased, regardless of age. During hypoxia and normoxia, PATTCO2 was significantly lower in 15-day-old lambs compared with 1-day-old lambs. No difference was seen during hyperoxia. PATTCO2 values were shifted to higher levels after carotid body removal. Finally, hypoxia induced by either a low inspired O2 fraction or CO inhalation consistently failed to induce a depressive effect on the PATTCO2 even in CBD lambs. In conclusion, in awake newborn lambs, the PCO2 level for apnea termination changed with postnatal age, and carotid body function was essential in lowering PATTCO2, thus protecting the lambs against prolonged apnea. Furthermore, hypoxia consistently failed to depress the reinitiation of breathing after apnea, even in CBD lambs.
Anchors aweigh.	It is appropriate that a ship named after Britain's best-known sailor should give people with disabilities the chance to sail the open seas. Nurse Jane de Burgh helped out on a voyage of self-discovery.
Experience with a vocabulary test for workers previously and still exposed to styrene.	This study examined the possible influence of styrene exposure on the results of vocabulary tests because verbal ability is assumed to be relatively resistant to the toxic effects of organic solvents and short vocabulary tests are used as "hold tests" in many neurobehavioral epidemiologic studies,
Offshore energy boom providing opportunities outside Medicare's umbrella.	Physicians upset by limits imposed by the medicare system are getting a chance to spread their entrepreneurial wings on the East Coast. A boom in offshore exploration, led by Newfoundland's massive Hibernia project, has led to numerous business opportunities for physicians.
A fatal case of benzene poisoning.	Chronic effects following repeated exposure to low doses of benzene have been well assessed, whereas few data are available about acute exposure to benzene. We report a case of fatal acute intoxication which occurred aboard a chemical cargo ship. Autopsy findings included blood clots inside the heart and main vessels, multi-organ congestion, pulmonary edema and the presence of many vibices in the hypostatic areas. Toxicological analysis of blood and urine showed a benzene concentration of 31.67 and 2.26 micrograms/mL, respectively; high concentrations of benzene (microgram/g) were also found in the lungs (22.23), liver (378.60), brain (178.66), heart (182.57) and kidneys (75.15). The above data provide evidence for benzene distribution in various organs.
