Crystalloid and colloid resuscitation of uncontrolled hemorrhagic shock following massive splenic injury.	Using a standardized massive splenic injury (MSI) model of uncontrolled hemorrhagic shock we studied the effect of vigorous crystalloid or colloid fluid resuscitation on the hemodynamic response, and survival in rats. The value of massive fluid infusion in uncontrolled hemorrhagic shock following intra-abdominal solid organ injury is still controversial. The effect of crystalloid and colloid infusion was studied following massive splenic injury. The animals were randomized into six groups: group 1 (n = 8) sham-operated, group 2 (n = 12) MSI untreated, group 3 (n = 10) MSI treated with 41.5 mL/kg Ringer's lactate (large-volume Ringer's lactate, LVRL), group 4 (n = 14) MSI treated with 5 mL/kg 7.5% NaCl (hypertonic saline, HTS), group 5 (n = 10) MSI treated with 7.5 mL/kg hydroxyethyl starch (HES-7.5), and group 6 (n = 11) MSI treated with 15 mL/kg hydroxyethyl starch (HES-15). Following MSI mean arterial pressure (MAP) in untreated group 2 decreased from 109.1 +/- 4.5 to 49.8 +/- 9.6 mmHg (P < 0.001) in 60 min. Mean survival time was 132.1 +/- 18.7 min, and total blood loss was 30.2 +/- 4.1% of blood volume. LVRL infusion resulted in an early rise in MAP from 59.7 +/- 7.3 to 90.0 +/- 11.3 mmHg (P < 0.01), which then rapidly dropped to 11.7 +/- 4.5 mmHg (P < 0.001) after 60 min. The mean survival time was 82.5 +/- 18.2 min (P < 0.01), and total blood loss was 53.7 +/- 2.9% (P < 0.01). Total blood loss following HTS infusion was 32.2 +/- 4.0% and survival time was 127.9 +/- 19.7 min. HES-7.5 infusion only moderately increased bleeding to 44.2 +/- 3.9% (P < 0.05), but mortality remained unchanged. HES-15 infusion resulted in an increase in blood loss to 47.8 +/- 7.1% (0.01), survival time dropped to 100.7 +/- 12.3 min (P < 0.05). Vigorous large volume infusion of Ringer's lactate or HES following MSI resulted in a significant increase in intra-abdominal bleeding and shortened survival time compared to untreated, small volume HTS, or HES-7.5-treated animals. The hemodynamic response to crystalloid or colloid infusion in blunt abdominal trauma is primarily dependent on the severity of injury and the rate of fluid resuscitation.
Successful treatment of life-threatening postpartum hemorrhage with recombinant activated factor VII.	Postpartum hemorrhage is one of the most common causes of maternal mortality and morbidity worldwide. The aims of treatment are to maintain the circulation and to stop the bleeding. The latter is achieved by either medical or surgical management. In intractable bleeding, emergency hysterectomy is usually required.
Postpartum hemorrhagic shock resulting in thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura-hemolytic uremic syndrome.	Thrombotic microangiopathies may be initiated by a number of antecedent events. When presented with postpartum hemorrhage and unexplained thrombocytopenia, it is prudent to consider microangiopathic hemolytic anemia in the differential diagnosis. A 25-year-old woman, gravida 2, para 1, had an uncomplicated repeat Cesarean delivery at 38 weeks' gestation. She subsequently had an exploratory laparotomy for hemoperitoneum resulting from a left uterine artery laceration. On postoperative day 3, she developed thrombotic chrombocytopenic purpura-hemolytic uremic syndrome and was treated with plasma exchange therapy and dialysis. It is critical that clinicians consider this potentially fatal disease in the differential diagnosis when hemorrhagic shock is associated with unexplained thrombocytopenia, so that appropriate and early treatment may lead to a favorable outcome.
Digestive hemorrhage from a duodenal neuroendocrine tumor. Diagnostic-therapeutic features and emergency surgical strategy]	The Authors report a rare case of duodenal neoplasia in a 17 year old boy. The patient was admitted in an emergency setting for hemorrhagic shock and duodenal perforation. Laparotomy was performed and a huge perforated neoplasia of the duodenum was found. Conservative approach was preferred, since the intraoperative histology was unuseful in choosing the better procedure: thus just a tumorectomy and closure of the duodenum were performed. Pathology examination demonstrated a neuroendocrine primitive duodenal tumors not well differentiated and with high grade of malignancy. The Authors discuss the role of the elements, clinical features and pathology, as well as emergency and postoperative management.
In-flight transfusion of packed red blood cells on a combat search and rescue mission: a case report from operation enduring freedom.	Injuries on the battlefield can occur far from the nearest medical treatment facility. This is especially likely for downed pilots and special operations personnel. Some of these injuries lead to significant blood loss requiring transfusion. We present two cases of injured coalition force members during Operation Enduring Freedom that illustrate the potential need for a transfusion capability at the site of injury to prevent death. Consideration should be given to augmenting transfusion capabilities in military environments with predictably long evacuation times.
Splenic rupture in pregnancy--traumatic or spontaneous event?	Splenic rupture in pregnancy or postpartum is a rare and frequently misdiagnosed occurrence. Failure to recognise it is common, and can be fatal for both mother and child. With all our highly developed diagnostic methods and equipment, aetiology of splenic ruptures in pregnancy remains a dilemma in many cases.
Recurrent hemorrhagic shock from solitary jejunal diverticulum.	We report the case of recurrent hemorrhagic shock manifested by massive melena and hematemesis in a 67-year-old patient, previously operated in another hospital for an abdominal aortic aneurysm two weeks before. During hospitalization the red blood cell scintigraphy was positive for bleeding in the jejunum. Intraoperative endoscopy was performed to identify a solitary diverticulum at the proximal jejunum. Approximately 70 cm of the involved segment was resected by an end-to-end anastomosis. Postoperative one-year evolution has been favorable, without any evidence of rebleeding. A review of the literature concerning this disease indicates the rarity of a massive bleeding from solitary jejunal diverticulum and the need to consider this condition in patients with gastrointestinal hemorrhage.
Transcatheter arterial embolization of concurrent spontaneous hematomas of the rectus sheath and psoas muscle in patients undergoing anticoagulation.	We report a case of concurrent rectus sheath and psoas hematomas in a patient undergoing anticoagulant therapy, treated by transcatheter arterial embolization (TAE) of inferior epigastric and lumbar arteries. Computed tomography (CT) demonstrated signs of active bleeding in two hematomas of the anterior and posterior abdominal walls. Transfemoral arteriogram confirmed the extravasation of contrast from the right inferior epigastric artery (RIEA). Indirect signs of bleeding were also found in a right lumbar artery (RLA). We successfully performed TAE of the feeding arteries. There have been few reports in the literature of such spontaneous hemorrhages in patients undergoing anticoagulation, successfully treated by TAE.
The rate of induction of hypothermic arrest determines the outcome in a Swine model of lethal hemorrhage.	Lethal injuries can be surgically repaired under asanguineous hypothermic condition (suspended animation) with excellent outcome. However, the optimal rate for the induction of hypothermic metabolic arrest following uncontrolled lethal hemorrhage (ULH) is unknown.
A successful emergency surgical treatment of DeBakey type I dissecting aneurysm complicated with cardiac tamponade and bleeding shock]	A successful emergency replacement of the ruptured ascending thoracic aorta by means of ringed Dacron tube graft for 69-year-old male was presented, who had been admitted to our hospital with deep cyanosis and shock. He had experienced severe chest pain one hour prior to admission followed by mental confusion and was brought by ambulant service. Emergency chest enhanced computed tomography showed a clear ruptured dissecting aneurysm (DeBakey Type I) with complicated with pericardial tamponade. Soon after this admission he developed bradycardia with hypotension and quickly went into shock. After induction of anesthesia, cardiac arrest developed. External cardiac massage was started at the same time. Partial cardiopulmonary bypass using femoral vein to artery bypass with the membrane oxygenator was instituted and the body was cooled until moderate hypothermia (25 degrees C). The pericardium was opened and blood clot was removed. The ascending aorta ruptured which was replaced with ringed Dacron tube graft (24 mm in diameter). Patient tolerated procedure well and made good postoperative recovery with temporally mild mental confusion. He discharged 2 months after the surgery without any neurological or mental complication. He has been followed up for six months in excellent condition.
Fluid resuscitation in traumatic hemorrhagic shock.	Fluid resuscitation from traumatic hemorrhagic shock is a critical component of therapy for the critically injured patient. Therapy is aimed at restoring hemodynamic stability and oxygen delivery to tissues. The route and rate of fluid infusion, the temperature of the fluid infused, the type of asanguineous fluids chosen, and the timing of red cell transfusion may all impact substantially on the patient outcome. Complications of fluid therapy, especially edema, may be related to the choice of fluid infused. Identification of hypovolemia and methods to monitor tissue are important aspects of patient care.
Haemorrhagic shock after severe blunt shoulder trauma]	The management of severe injured patients requires life-threatening lesions research, especially potential haemorrhagic lesions. The haemorrhagic shock is a rare but serious complication of shoulder girdle traumas. We report in this study the clinical and paraclinical signs that lead us to take care from such evolution.
Successful treatment of severe post-partum bleeding after caesarean section using recombinant activated factor VII]	To present a case report of severe post-partum bleeding after caesarean section and successful using recombinant factor VIIa.
Hemorrhagic shock caused by rupture of the iliac vein. A very rare complication of hip arthroplasty]	We report the case of a 51 years old woman who underwent replacement of a total prosthesis of the right hip under general anesthesia and during left lateral decubitus. During the surgical procedure we observed signs of hemorrhagic shock and a concealed bleeding was suspected. After a diagnostic peritoneal puncture we performed a midlaparotomy which revealed a large retroperitoneal hematoma produced by rupture of the right internal iliac vein. Reanimation of the patient included a massive transfusion of 28 units of blood. We analyze the mechanisms of this rare complication which occurs during total arthroplasty of the hip. We recommended routine monitoring of the central venous pressure in this type of surgery since it is associated with large blood losses.
Hemorrhagic shock in obstetrics.	Acute postpartum hemorrhage is the leading worldwide cause of maternal mortality, such deaths being usually related to the development of hemorrhagic shock and its consequences, especially the multiple organ dysfunction syndrome. Obstetricians should be aware of the clinical manifestations and principles of management of hemorrhagic shock. Initial assessment of the bleeding patient requires monitoring blood pressure, pulse, capillary refill, mental status and urinary output. This allows estimation of the amount and the rate of blood loss and helps direct treatment. Hemorrhagic shock is a condition in which inadequate perfusion of organs results in insufficient availability of oxygen to satisfy the metabolic needs of the tissues. A catabolic state develops. The consequences of these changes are inflammation, endothelial dysfunction, and disruption of normal metabolic processes in vital organs. Once these events become established, the process of shock is often irreversible, even if volume and red cell deficits are corrected. The principal goals of management are controlling the source of the blood loss; restoring adequate oxygen carrying capacity; and maintaining adequate tissue perfusion. Patients with severe postpartum hemorrhage are at risk of developing hypothermia, an insidious complication that contributes substantially to morbidity and mortality. It must be prevented or treated promptly. Successful treatment of exsanguinating postpartum hemorrhage depends on efficient collaboration among all members of the patient care team, and a management plan based on an understanding of the pathophysiology of shock and tailored to the individual patient's situation.
Continuous infusion of small-volume fluid resuscitation in the treatment of combined uncontrolled hemorrhagic shock and head injury.	To determine the effect of continuous limited fluid resuscitation on the hemodynamic response and survival in rats in a model of uncontrolled hemorrhage shock due to massive splenic injury (MSI) and head injury (HI).
A woman with shock as first sign of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome]	A 49-year-old woman presented at the emergency ward in shock with upper gastrointestinal bleeding. Extensive ulceration confirmed by gastroduodenoscopy was suggestive of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Further evaluation by fasting gastrin assessment, CT, endosonography with cytological biopsy and somatostatin-receptor scintigraphy confirmed the diagnosis ofgastrinoma. Three enlarged lymph nodes near the pancreatic head were surgically removed; each was found to contain neuroendocrine tumour cells. The patient recovered rapidly after surgery and the gastrin level normalised. Zollinger-Ellison syndrome is uncommon but should be considered as a possible cause of upper gastrointestinal bleeding. Shock is very rarely the first sign ofZollinger-Ellison syndrome. In this case, the use of a proton-pump inhibitor may have masked the disease for years.
Splenic rupture: an unusual complication of colonoscopy.	Splenic injury is a known, albeit rare, complication of diagnostic and therapeutic colonoscopy. Within a 6-month period, we observed two colonoscopic splenic injuries. We report these two cases of splenic injury who presented differently after colonoscopy: one presented as frank hemorrhagic shock, and the other as a subacute splenic hemorrhage with symptomatic anemia. The first patient presented with hemorrhagic shock several hours after a diagnostic colonoscopy and required an emergency splenectomy. The second patient presented with symptomatic anemia several days after a diagnostic colonoscopy and was treated by angiographic embolization. Clinical presentation and discussion of the mechanisms of injury, available treatment options, and strategies for preventing colonoscopic splenic injuries are presented. Awareness of this complication is paramount in early recognition and management of this potentially life-threatening injury.
Fatal fulminant pancreatitis after laparoscopic gastric bypass surgery.	Current widespread application of laparoscopic techniques in Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGBP) is making surgical safety an increasingly important issue. We report one case that resulted in death due to postoperative fulminant acute pancreatitis after laparoscopic RYGBP was performed when this procedure was still relatively new in China. The patient was a chronically obese 19-year-old male. Weight loss medications had been ineffective, and preoperative body mass index was 40.7. Preoperative examination revealed moderate steatohepatitis. Laparoscopic RYGBP (LRYGBP) was performed. Early manifestations of clinical shock appeared 13 h after the laparoscopic surgery. A second laparoscopic examination showed small-vessel hemorrhage at the posterior wall of the jejunojejunal anastomosis, with blood clot formation resulting in Roux limb and afferent loop obstruction. Fulminant acute pancreatitis developed in the patient 18 h after the second surgery. The patient died 15 days later from systemic multiorgan insufficiency. LRYGBP (postcolon) is a technically demanding procedure for surgeons who are not experienced in this operation. In addition, surgical tolerance is reduced in morbidly obese patients. Therefore, special care should be taken during surgery, and hemostasis must be achieved at all bleeding sites. Increased perioperative surveillance allows for early detection and management of severe complications.
Pelvic actinomycosis: a misleading picture]	Pelvic actinomycosis is a rare chronic suppurative granulomatous disease associated with an intrauterine contraceptive device. Next pelvic organs can be affected but also more distant organs, to lead to different clinical situations. The diagnosis is therefore often difficult. We report here the case of a woman who presents a particular extensive pelvic actinomycosis diagnosed after surgical treatment with important morbidity. This case shows the interest of evoking the diagnosis in an evocative clinical context, doing the necessary exams to confirm the hypothesis, favouring medical treatment and reserving surgical treatment for particular situations.
The antishock pelvic clamp.	Unstable posterior pelvic ring disruptions are frequently accompanied by severe venous bleeding and hypotension. Mechanical stabilization has been shown to help reduce such blood loss. A new external fixator called an antishock clamp provides direct reduction and compression of such fracture-diastases about the sacroiliac joint. It is used acutely to rapidly stabilize the posterior pelvic ring in hypotensive patients. The simplicity of design allows the device to be applied in less than ten minutes in the emergency room. Most importantly, it does not interfere with the ability to carry out subsequent laparotomy or other required procedures. Although more clinical experience is needed, the clamp has provided hemodynamic stabilization accompanying fracture reduction. The device is not expected to be of benefit in the cases with significant bleeding of arterial origin.
Hemostatic resuscitation for acute traumatic coagulopathy.	Trauma resuscitation paradigms have changed considerably over the last twenty years. Originally, the goal was to normalize a blood pressure as quickly as possible. Large volume crystalloid resuscitation was used to accomplish this. Standard therapy was that any patient with suspected bleeding received a two liter crystalloid bolus as initial therapy. It was often repeated and blood transfusion therapy was used relatively late. Fresh frozen plasma and platelets were also used relatively late, often after patients had received ten units of red cells. Dilutional anemia was relatively common. Patients with large volume blood loss often died from what was termed, "the bloody vicious cycle," of hypothermia, acidosis and coagulopathy.
Unanswered questions in the use of blood component therapy in trauma.	Recent advances in our approach to blood component therapy in traumatic hemorrhage have resulted in a reassessment of many of the tenants of management which were considered standards of therapy for many years. Indeed, despite the use of damage control techniques, the mortality from trauma induced coagulopathy has not changed significantly over the past 30 years. More specifically, a resurgence of interest in postinjury hemostasis has generated controversies in three primary areas: 1) The pathogenesis of trauma induced coagulopathy 2) The optimal ratio of blood components administered via a pre-emptive schedule for patients at risk for this condition, ("damage control resuscitation"), and 3) The appropriate use of monitoring mechanisms of coagulation function during the phase of active management of trauma induced coaguopathy, which we have previously termed "goal directed therapy". Accordingly, recent experience from both military and civilian centers have begun to address these controversies, with certain management trends emerging which appear to significantly impact the way we approach these patients.
Life-saving treatment by fluid resuscitation and a thoracotomy in a case of deep pulmonary laceration.	A 41-year-old man survived deep pulmonary and hepatic lacerations by treatment with fluid resuscitation, blood transfusion, thoracotomy, and transcatheter hepatic artery embolization. The patient was transferred to our hospital 46 minutes after his motorbike struck a station wagon from behind. Hemorrhagic shock with systolic blood pressure of 68 mmHg was observed. He showed nonresponse to 20-minute intravenous infusion of 1,500 mL of lactated Ringer's solution. The initial plain chest radiograph showed mediastinal deviation to the left, radio-opacity of the right lower lobe, and decreased radiolucency of the right thorax. Rapid drainage of 800 mL of blood through a right chest tube led to a diagnosis of a deep pulmonary laceration of the right lower lobe. Abdominal computed tomography revealed another deep laceration affecting 40% of the liver. A right lower lobectomy of the lung was performed at 169 minutes after arrival. After the thoracotomy,transcatheter arterial embolization of the right hepatic artery was performed. The patient was discharged on hospital day 57.
The acute management of trauma hemorrhage: a systematic review of randomized controlled trials.	Worldwide, trauma is a leading cause of death and disability. Haemorrhage is responsible for up to 40% of trauma deaths. Recent strategies to improve mortality rates have focused on optimal methods of early hemorrhage control and correction of coagulopathy. We undertook a systematic review of randomized controlled trials (RCT) which evaluated trauma patients with hemorrhagic shock within the first 24 hours of injury and appraised how the interventions affected three outcomes: bleeding and/or transfusion requirements; correction of trauma induced coagulopathy and mortality.
Secondary aorto-enteric fistula--still a devastating complication of major vascular surgery.	Despite advances in vascular surgery and intensive care, secondary aorto-enteric fistulas (AEF) remain a serious threat of major vascular interventions. This report summarizes our experience in the treatment of this condition.
Retroperitoneal hemorrhage after percutaneous coronary intervention in the current practice era: clinical outcomes and prognostic value of abdominal/pelvic computed tomography.	Retroperitoneal hemorrhage (RPH) is a serious but infrequent complication of percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). This study aimed to describe the clinical outcomes of patients who developed RPH following PCI in the current practice era, with particular focus on treatment strategies and the related prognostic value of abdominal/pelvic computed tomography (CT).
Acute hypopituitarism in a pregnant patient after cardiac gunshot injury.	Sheehan's syndrome is a well described entity that refers to hypopituitarism with pituitary infarction secondary to postpartum shock or hemorrhage. Antepartum pituitary infarction is a very rare condition that has been reported only in patients with longstanding type 1 diabetes mellitus or uncontrolled gestational diabetes. A case of severe, acute hypopituitarism in the setting of hemorrhagic shock from a gunshot wound is presented. Our case report highlights the importance of including hypopituitarism in the differential diagnosis of a critically ill parturient.
What's new in resuscitation strategies for the patient with multiple trauma?	The last decade has seen a sea change in the management of major haemorrhage following traumatic injury. Damage control resuscitation (DCR), a strategy combining the techniques of permissive hypotension, haemostatic resuscitation and damage control surgery has been widely adopted as the preferred method of resuscitation in patients with haemorrhagic shock. The over-riding goals of DCR are to mitigate metabolic acidosis, hypothermia and coagulopathy and stabilise the patient as early as possible in a critical care setting. This narrative review examines the background to these changes in resuscitation practice, discusses the central importance of traumatic coagulopathy in driving these changes particularly in relation to the use of high FFP:RBC ratio and explores methods of predicting, diagnosing and treating the coagulopathy with massive transfusion protocols as well as newer coagulation factor concentrates. We discuss other areas of trauma haemorrhage management including the role of hypertonic saline and interventional radiology. Throughout this review we specifically examine whether the available evidence supports these newer practices.
Traumatic brain injury and hemorrhagic shock:  evaluation of different resuscitation strategies in a large animal model of combined insults.	Traumatic brain injury (TBI) and hemorrhagic shock (HS) are the leading causes of trauma-related mortality and morbidity. Combination of TBI and HS (TBI + HS) is highly lethal, and the optimal resuscitation strategy for this combined insult remains unclear. A critical limitation is the lack of suitable large animal models to test different treatment strategies. We have developed a clinically relevant large animal model of TBI + HS, which was used to evaluate the impact of different treatments on brain lesion size and associated edema. Yorkshire swine (42-50 kg) were instrumented to measure hemodynamic parameters and intracranial pressure. A computer-controlled cortical impact device was used to create a TBI through a 20-mm craniotomy: 15-mm cylindrical tip impactor at 4 m/s velocity, 100-ms dwell time, and 12-mm penetration depth. Volume-controlled hemorrhage was started (40% blood volume) concurrent with the TBI. After 2 h of shock, animals were randomized to one of three resuscitation groups (n = 5/group): (a) normal saline (NS); (b) 6% hetastarch, Hextend (Hex); and (c) fresh frozen plasma (FFP). Volumes of Hex and FFP matched the shed blood, whereas NS was three times the volume. After 6 h of postresuscitation monitoring, brains were sectioned into 5-mm slices and stained with TTC (2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride) to quantify the lesion size and brain swelling. Combination of 40% blood loss with cortical impact and a period of shock (2 h) resulted in a highly reproducible brain injury. Total fluid requirements were lower in the Hex and FFP groups. Lesion size and brain swelling in the FFP group (2,160 ± 202.63 mm and 22% ± 1.0%, respectively) were significantly smaller than those in the NS group (3,285 ± 130.8 mm3 and 37% ± 1.6%, respectively) (P < 0.05). Hex treatment decreased the swelling (29% ± 1.6%) without reducing the lesion size. Early administration of FFP reduces the size of brain lesion and associated swelling in a large animal model of TBI + HS. In contrast, artificial colloid (Hex) decreases swelling without reducing the actual size of the brain lesion.
Pathology of cause of death from penetrating weapons in the Niger Delta region of Nigeria: an autopsy study of 254 cases.	To study the pattern of death caused by penetrating weapons. This is a prospective autopsy study of 254 cases over 8 years (1995 - 2002)
Evaluation of military trauma system practices related to damage-control resuscitation.	The Joint Theater Trauma System (JTTS) was developed with the vision that every soldier, marine, sailor, and airman injured on the battlefield would have the optimal chance for survival and maximum potential for functional recovery. In this analysis, we hypothesized that information diffusion through the JTTS, via the dissemination of clinical practice guidelines and process improvements, would be associated with the acceptance of evidence-based practices and decreases in trauma practice variability.
Retroperitoneal pelvic packing for haemodynamically unstable pelvic fractures in children and adolescents: a level-one trauma-centre experience.	This study aims to review the outcomes of haemodynamically unstable paediatric patients with pelvic fractures undergoing protocol intervention of retroperitoneal pelvic packing (RPP) with external fixation and angiography.
The outcomes of 1120 severe multiple trauma patients with hemorrhagic shock in an emergency department: a retrospective study.	Uncontrolled hemorrhagic shock is a significant factor in death of severe multiple trauma patients. The acute management of injured bleeding in emergency department (ED) may improve patient outcomes. The medical records of severe multiple trauma patients with hemorrhagic shock in our ED were reviewed to summarize an evidence-based approach to the management of critically injured bleeding trauma patients.
Acute traumatic coagulopathy in the setting of isolated traumatic brain injury: a systematic review and meta-analysis.	Acute traumatic coagulopathy (ATC) has been reported in the setting of isolated traumatic brain injury (iTBI) and associated with high mortality and poor outcomes. The aim of this systematic review was to examine the incidence and outcome of patients with ATC in the setting of iTBI.
Colloid with high fresh frozen plasma/red blood cell resuscitation does not reduce postoperative fluid needs.	Recent data suggest that intraoperative (Phase I) colloid (human serum albumin [HSA]) and a high fresh frozen plasma (FFP)/red blood cell (RBC) resuscitation will reduce postoperative (Phase II) fluid uptake. This study compares a noncolloid (balanced electrolyte solution [BES]) plus low (≤ 0.35) FFP/RBC resuscitation (Group A) with an HSA plus high (>0.35) FFP/RBC resuscitation.
Case of small bowel angioectasia in which the resection site was angiographically detected using intraoperative dye infusion]	A 37-year-old Japanese man undergoing treatment for dilated cardiomyopathy was presented with weakness and melena. He had conjunctival pallor and difficulty in standing;his blood pressure was 81/62 mmHg. Abdominal computed tomography revealed contrast dye leakage into the small intestine. He was diagnosed with hemorrhagic shock secondary to intestinal bleeding;we administered large volumes of intravenous fluid along with performing a blood transfusion. We then performed angiography to determine the site of bleeding angioectasia and placed a catheter into the affected artery. We identified the resection site using an intraoperative dye infusion via the catheter, and successfully performed small bowel resection. He was subsequently discharged without complications. 
Possible role of oxygen-derived, free radicals in cardiocirculatory shock.	The release of oxygen free radicals from ischemic myocardial tissue has been implicated as a causative factor of cell membrane damage and cardiac dysfunction in hemorrhagic shock. This study was done to determine whether or not hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and superoxide ion (O2) are responsible for cardiac injury from hemorrhagic shock as indicated by reduced coronary perfusion and impaired contractile function. This hypothesis was tested by infusing selective O2 and H2O2 scavengers into anesthetized dogs in a state of shock, either during shock (group 3) or with fluid resuscitation (group 2) and comparing the cardiovascular response to that seen with shock and fluid resuscitation alone (group 1). We found no significant difference in shock induced derangements in myocardial oxygen metabolism or the degree of myocardial depression and regional ischemia in dogs in a state of shock given superoxide dismutase plus catalase, compared with shock alone. The results of our data suggested that, if O2 and H2O2 play a causative role in shock induced cardiac dysfunction or during reperfusion after shock, free radical scavengers must be administered early in the ischemic period. Furthermore, free radical scavengers administered with reperfusion do not enchance cardiac function nor myocardial perfusion.
Initial management and evaluation of the multisystem injured patient, Part 1.	Trauma is the fourth leading cause of death for all Americans, with a mortality rate of 61 deaths per 100,000 people. Although the definitive place for the management of major abdominal or thoracic hemorrhage, as well as neurological or orthopedic problems, is the operating room in a tertiary care hospital, trauma is a time-related disease, and the more quickly hemorrhage is controlled and appropriate management initiated, the better the outcome.The author outlines a systematic approach to prehospital management of the trauma patient that includes a primary survey and a secondary survey. The primary survey (Part 1) focuses on life-threatening conditions that affect the airway and methods to clear the airway immediately. Once the airway is cleared, any anatomical or physiologic compromise that limits ventilation is identified and corrected, hemorrhage is controlled, and the cervical spine, if injury is suspected, is protected. The secondary survey (Part 2) is a comprehensive examination.
Complete duplication of the small intestine in childhood]	The article reports on two cases of complete duplication of the small intestine in an infant of 7 months of age (female) and a boy aged 3 1/2 years. The almost complete lining of the duplicated small intestine with gastric mucosa resulted in massive haemorrhages. These haemorrhages, in conjunction with ileus, were the indications for an operation. Mucosectomy was performed in the region of the duplication. Such removal of the mucosa is recommended in complete duplication of the small intestine and in partial tubular forms.
Significance of DNA endonucleases in the pathogenesis of ischemic lesion of the brain during massive hemorrhage]	Experiments on dogs exposed to hemorrhagic shock demonstrated a direct relationship between the duration of arterial hypertension and activities of Ca(2+)-Mg(2+)-dependent DNA-endonucleases in the cellular nuclei of the cerebral cortex. Appreciable differences in the kinetics of accumulation of acid-soluble products of DNA chromatin in the cellular nuclei of the cerebral cortex were detected: chromatin DNA degradation was the most rapid in the nervous tissue of dogs exposed to 6 h hemorrhagic shock. Verapamil, a Ca blocker, injected to animals 30 min before massive hemorrhage in a dose of 0.1 mg/kg, reliably reduced the activities of Ca(2+)--Mg(2+)-dependent endonucleases of the cellular nuclei of the cerebral cortex by the 4th h of hemorrhagic shock. The detected physicochemical changes in the chromatin DNA of the cerebral cortex cellular nuclei and a progressive increase of activities of Ca(2+)--Mg(2+)-dependent endonucleases during a prolonged hemorrhagic shock are by their nature close to the phenomenon of genomic programmed cellular death.
Acute hemorrhage from a pyelocaliceal diverticulum of a native kidney in a renal transplant patient.	A 28-year-old renal transplant patient developed a shock due to an acute bleeding from his right native kidney. An urgent nephrectomy was performed. Macroscopic and histological examination revealed a pyelocaliceal diverticulum as the cause of the hemorrhage. This rare event must be taken into account in every case of an unexplained acute renal bleeding.
Spontaneous rupture of the liver in severe preeclampsia. Case report.	Uncontrolled haemorrhage is the most common cause of death after spontaneous rupture of the liver in pregnancy. This severe complication of pregnancy-induced hypertension is associated with a high rate of both maternal and fetal mortality, and aggressive therapy should be instituted including treatment of haemorrhagic shock, control of hepatic bleeding, and delivery.
Analysis of therapeutic methods used in puerperium complicated by hemorrhagic shock]	Methods of intensive treatment of puerperium with severe haemorrhagic shock of a dramatic course are analysed in the paper. In 20% of patients shock occurred due to non-obstetric reasons. It is stated, that haemorrhagic shock predisposes to various complications, which in turn require multidirectional treatment. It is stressed, that monitored therapy by means of adequately selected fluids should be supplemented by immediate and appropriate oxygen therapy.
The shock patients with the cardiac tamponade resulting from acute type A aortic dissection]	Twelve patients with acute type A aortic dissection were admitted at Ohta-Nishinouti Hospital from Jan. 1991 to Mar. 1994. Three of these 12 cases were in shock with cardiac tamponade on arrival at the hospital. Immediate resuscitative management was necessary for these patients, but pericardiocentasis was fruitless in the first case and emergent thoracotomy had led to the aortic rupture. While the second case was the thrombosed type aortic dissection and successfully performed pericardiocentasis, CT findings showed recanalization of the pseudolumen after a day, then we performed the urgent operation. By means of these experiences, the third case was operated quickly in spite of the thrombosed type aortic dissection, and had good result. We concluded that immediate surgical intervention should be taken to the shock patients with cardiac tamponade resulted from acute type A aortic dissection.
Redefining cardiovascular performance during resuscitation: ventricular stroke work, power, and the pressure-volume diagram.	(1) To compare left ventricular stroke work index (SW) and left ventricular power output (LVP), hemodynamic variables that encompass blood pressure as well as blood flow, with the purely flow-derived hemodynamic and oxygen transport variables as markers of perfusion and outcome in critically injured patients during resuscitation. (2) To use the ventricular pressure-volume diagram to define characteristic hemodynamic patterns in the determinants of SW and LVP that are associated with survival.
Hemorrhagic shock during laparoscopic cholecystectomy detected by transesophageal echocardiography]	A 47-year-old man was scheduled for laparoscopic cholecystectomy under general anesthesia supplemented with epidural anesthesia. A direct arterial line and a transesophageal echocardiogram probe were inserted before surgery. Anesthesia was maintained with nitrous oxide and isoflurane but without epidural anesthesia. Severe hypotension occurred about 30 minutes after introducing pneumoperitoneum but surgeons denied massive bleeding in the operative field. Although this made us difficult to diagnose the incident as massive bleeding or pulmonary air embolism (PAE), a collapsed heart was detected by transesophageal echocardiography (TEE). Its end-diastolic diameter of the left ventricle was reduced to 20 mm and left ventricular end-systolic cavity obliteration was demonstrated. We could easily diagnose the decrease of blood volume due to PAE using TEE.
Coeliac disease presenting with intraperitoneal haemorrhage.	A 42-year-old man, who was previously fit and well, presented in haemorrhagic shock due to a spontaneous left mesocolonic haematoma and intraperitoneal bleed. His INR was noted to be raised on admission. Later investigations showed him to have villous atrophy on biopsy of the second part of his duodenum and a positive anti-reticulin antibody. His duodenal biopsy and INR normalized on a gluten-free diet. Coeliac disease may present with a single vitamin deficiency with potentially catastrophic results.
