Hemodynamics of chronic nonpulsatile flow: implications for LVAD development.	Both experimental and clinical evidence suggest that pulse pressure is not required from a blood pump. End-organ function is well maintained with nonpulsatile systems, though pulse pressure may accelerate recovery from cardiogenic shock. Form follows function, so the effects of reduced pulse pressure on the arterial wall are not surprising. The ability to alter aortic wall morphology by reducing pulse pressure may have important implications for the future treatment of arterial pathology. Both centrifugal and axial-flow pumps can be miniaturized and are silent. Their reliability and user-friendly status may soon allow implantation at an earlier stage of cardiac deterioration. Doubts about the feasibility of long-term pulseless circulation are disappearing.
Mechanical bridge to cardiac transplant: where do we stand in 1990?	Various mechanical devices have been used to support the circulation in patients requiring cardiac transplantation who are in cardiogenic shock. The devices produce either a pulsatile or nonpulsatile blood-flow pattern. Of the former, the intra-aortic balloon pump is the most frequently used. However, it augments but does not replace the function of the left ventricle. At the Ottawa Heart Institute, orthotopic replacement of both ventricles with a total artificial heart has proven a reliable and effective bridge to transplantation in selected patients. Heterotopic ventricles, known as ventricular assist devices, may also be used to replace the function of one or both ventricles and are increasingly being used to maintain the circulation. The future of nonpulsatile devices for mechanical support remains unclear because the long-term effects of this unphysiologic flow pattern are unknown. As refinements in circulatory support devices continue and as patient selection and timing of device insertion become more clearly defined, the results in these patients will likely approach those of elective cardiac transplantation.
Distal coronary hemoperfusion during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty.	Distal coronary hemoperfusion during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA)-with an autoperfusion balloon or active system-facilitates prolonged balloon inflation. Prolonged inflations may tack up intimal dissections and improve the primary angioplasty result in complex lesions. Additionally, distal perfusion may reduce the likelihood of cardiogenic shock during high-risk PTCA. Autoperfusion balloons are most frequently used to treat acute or threatened closure. There currently is no prospective clinical study showing that stent implantation for this complication is more successful and more cost-effective. The blood flow rates through autoperfusion balloons may not abolish myocardial ischemia, and higher flow rates can often be achieved with pumps. Therefore, during high-risk PTCA, pumps may be preferred to prevent hemodynamic collapse. Clinical application of perfusion pumps is hampered by the risk for mechanical hemolysis during prolonged perfusion and the high velocity of the bloodstream that exits the PTCA catheter, causing distal vessel wall trauma.
