Therapeutic efficiency of nitric oxide synthase inhibitor on traumatic shock in rats]	To evaluate the effects of aminoguanidine (AG) used as a selective inhibitor of the inducible form of nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) used as a non-selective inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) on traumatic shock.
Protective effect of thyrotropin-releasing hormone against lipid peroxidation injury during traumatic shock in rats]	In this paper are reported the results of a study on the protective effect of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH, 0.5mg/100g) against lipid peroxidation injury during traumatic shock in rats. Cardiac and lung tissue malondialdehyde (MDA) contents in TRH group were lower than those in normal saline (NS) group (P less than 0.05) 1 hr after shock. Cardiac, liver, kidney and lung tissue MDA contents 3 hrs after shock and liver and kidney tissue MDA contents 5 hrs after shock in TRH group were lower than those in NS group (P less than 0.05). TRH could increase the endogenous superoxide dismutase (SOD) activities in vital organ tissues. 5 hrs after shock, liver, kidney and lung tissue SOD activities in TRH group were still higher than those in NS group (P less than 0.05). In addition, TRH could depress the elevation of plasma MDA content, raise blood pressure and 24-hr survival rate of the animals in shock. It was found that TRH has not the effect of directly scavenging oxygen-derived free radicals in vitro. The results demonstrated that the beneficial effects of TRH during traumatic shock may be related to its protection against lipid peroxidation injury in vital organ tissues.
Myocardial depression in the burn patient]	Myocardial depression and heart failure are frequent complications in critically ill burn patients. The physiopathology is complex and involves the activation of inflammatory pathways, ischemia-reperfusion, oxidative stress and endothelial lesion. Diagnosis should be made early by means of hemodynamic monitoring. Treatment is accomplished by inotropics that act on different pathways of the contractile function and immune response associated with antioxidants and allopurinol.
Depressed gut absorptive capacity early after trauma-hemorrhagic shock. Restoration with diltiazem treatment.	Although bacterial translocation occurs after trauma-hemorrhage, it is unknown whether gut absorptive capacity (GAC) is altered under those conditions. The aim of this study, therefore, was to determine this and also whether diltiazem (DZ) has any effect on GAC after hemorrhage. Rats (n = 12; 270 to 300 g) were lightly anesthetized with ether and a 6-cm midline laparotomy performed (i.e., trauma induced). A nasogastric tube was inserted, cannulation of a carotid and femoral artery and a jugular and the portal veins performed, and the animals allowed to recover from anesthesia. They were then bled to a mean blood pressure of 40 mm Hg within 10 minutes and maintained at this pressure by further bleeding or return of fluid (lactated Ringer's solution [LRS] ) until 40% of the shed blood volume (SBV) had been returned in the form of LRS (end of hemorrhage, EH; time from onset of hemorrhage to EH = 93.4 +/- 4.4 minutes). The rats then were resuscitated with LRS, 3 times the SBV over 45 minutes, followed by 2x over 60 minutes. One group received 400 micrograms/kg DZ, and another group received saline, with the 2x LRS. Sham animals were not hemorrhaged. Gut absorptive capacity was determined by the 1-hour D-xylose absorption test at 2 and 4 hours after EH. Results demonstrate that GAC is significantly depressed after hemorrhage and resuscitation. Administration of diltiazem restored GAC to normal levels. Thus DZ is a useful adjuvant to treatment after trauma-hemorrhagic shock, because it restores GAC to normal and allows for early enteral nutrition.
Effect of naloxone in traumatic shock]	Experiments on rabbits were made to examine the effect of naloxone, a specific antagonist of opiates and endogenous opioid peptides, on traumatic shock. Naloxone (0.1-1.0 mg/kg) injected intravenously 2-15 minutes after trauma produced no effect on the arterial pressure and the heart rate. As compared with control animals, the lifespan of animals with trauma decreased. It is suggested that endogenous opioid peptides may play a protective and adaptive role in the torpid phase of traumatic shock.
Influence of methylprednisolone on reticuloendothelial phagocytic and opsonic function during traumatic and septic shock.	Previous studies have indicated that resistance to shock is closely related to the phagocytic activity of the reticuloendothelial system (RES). The present study examined the possibility that steroid treatment during shock might alter RES activity. RES phagocytic function was assessed by blood clearance and organ localization of gelatinized lipid colloid; opsonin activity by in vitro bioassay; serum concentration of the opsonic alpha 2-SB-glycoprotein (cold-insoluble globulin or fibronectin) by electroimmunoassay; and hepatic sinusoidal blood flow by the fractional clearance technique. Traumatic shock was induced in anesthetized male rats in a Noble-Collip drum while septic shock developed following cecal ligation and puncture. Both shock groups demonstrated depressed RE clearance function in association with diminished hepatic colloid localization and hepatic blood flow and augmented extrahepatic colloid uptake. The injection of methylprednisolone produced no further alterations in these parameters. Steroid injection resulted in enhancement of circulating opsonic activity in all groups compared to vehicle injection. The increased activity was not accompanied by increased levels of immunoreactive opsonic protein, nor could biological activity be enhanced by addition of steroid to plasma in vitro. It is suggested that the steroid acted either to preserve or to enhance the activity of the circulating protein. The relation of this finding to the suggested beneficial effects of steroids in shock remains unresolved.
Dextran 70 administration after trauma-hemorrhagic shock does not impair cellular immune functions.	Although the effects of the colloid dextran 70 on induction of anaphylactoid reactions or reticuloendothelial phagocytosis have been examined previously, its effects on specific cell-mediated immunity after trauma-hemorrhage shock remain unknown.
The pharmacokinetics of ceftazidime in the burned patients]	Pharmacokinetic studies were carried out following systemic administration of ceftazidime in ten burn patients (TBSA 30%-60% and with full-thickness burn) and six healthy volunteers. Dynamic ceftazidime concentrations in blood, urine and blister fluid were analysed by HPLC. The results showed that the burned patients, especially during their shock phase, some pharmacokinetics parameters differed from that of normal volunteers, in that the volume of distribution (0.45 +/- 0.06 L/kg vs. 0.23 +/- 0.05 L/kg) and non-renal clearance of drug (30.54 +/- 21.97ml.min-1 vs. 11.08 +/- 4.91 ml.min-1) increased, but the elimination of half-life was prolonged. The result indicated that it was not necessary to increase the dosage of ceftazidime in extensive burns in the early period. Burn blister fluid concentrations were higher than MIC. Ranging from 1.004-21.62 micrograms/ml, indicating that systemic ceftazidime could penetrate second-degree burn tissue in the early postburn stage.
Beneficial actions of CP-0127, a novel bradykinin receptor antagonist, in murine traumatic shock.	We studied the effects of CP-0127, a novel bradykinin receptor antagonist, in a rat model of traumatic shock. Pentobarbital-anesthetized rats subjected to Noble-Collip drum trauma developed a shock state characterized by marked hypotension, significant increases in plasma-free amino-nitrogen (8.6 +/- 0.97 vs. 2.3 +/- 0.15 U/ml in control rats) and intestinal myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity (2.7 +/- 0.33 vs. 0.08 +/- 0.03 U/100 mg control rats, intestinal tissue), and a survival time of only 110 +/- 9 min. Moreover, superior mesenteric artery (SMA) rings isolated from rats subjected to traumatic shock relaxed to the endothelium-dependent vasodilator acetylcholine (ACh) significantly less than rings isolated from control rats (21 +/- 4 vs. 92 +/- 4%, P < 0.001). Administration of CP-0127 at a dose of 10 mg/kg subcutaneously completely blocked the hypotensive response to 2.5 micrograms/kg bradykinin injected intravenously in sham traumatic shock rats. CP-0127 given immediately posttrauma prolonged survival time to 219 +/- 27 min (P < 0.01) and attenuated the increases in plasma-free amino-nitrogen (3.7 +/- 0.41 U/ml, P < 0.01) and tissue MPO activities (1.2 +/- 0.71 U/100 mg intestinal tissue, P < 0.05). Furthermore, SMA endothelial function was significantly preserved (relaxation to ACh: 57 +/- 6%, P < 0.01) in CP-0127-treated traumatic shock rats. These results indicate that bradykinin plays an important role in tissue injury associated with traumatic shock and that CP-0127 affords significant protection, which may be achieved through inhibition of neutrophil-endothelial interaction and protection of vascular endothelial function.
Antitoxic features of magnesium oxide under combined radiation and thermal injury]	Male Wistar rats were exposed to 7.5 Gy total body gamma radiation followed to the additional full-thickness thermal bum. It was shown, that single administration of magnesium oxide in 1 hour after combined injury significantly corrected the early signs of endogenous intoxication. The level of bacterial endotoxemia decreased as well as serum concentration of toxic oligopeptides; general blood serum toxicity has been reduced too. Four-fold magnesium oxide's using as an enterosorbent in combination with antibiotics (doxycyclini, gentamicini or ciprofloxacin) has ensured 73-100% rats survival. All untreated animals dead within 30 days after combined injury.
