﻿﻿Stomal mucocutaneous dehiscence as a complication of a dynamic wound closure system following laparostomy: a case report.	﻿Dynamic retention suture techniques that allow gradual reapproximation of abdominal midline muscles and fascia as well as sufficient freedom of movement for breathing and patient care commonly are used to prevent lateral retraction of the abdominal fascia in patients whose abdominal wound closure must be delayed. A 58-year-old otherwise healthy man was admitted with severe abdominal sepsis and following surgery, which included the creation of a stoma, a dynamic wound closure system was applied. Mucocutaneous stomal dehiscence was observed a few days after starting the treatment. The complication was believed to have occurred as a result of traction on the proximal end of the stoma (the bowel inside the abdomen) due to tension on the sutures of the small part of the bowel outside the abdomen. Definite, primary closure of the abdominal fascia was achieved after 16 days, at which point the stoma was reinserted with good results. Since using a modified procedure that involves cutting a groove in the protective drape and carefully placing two flaps around the stoma, this complication has not been observed with similar patients in the authors' facility. This complication is not unique to this wound closure system; it also has been reported with other treatment modalities such as negative pressure wound therapy. The relatively small number of patients requiring delayed closure of the abdomen, coupled with the uniqueness of each case due to a wide variety of indications and comorbidities, hampers the development of evidence-based guidelines of care for these patients. A worldwide data exchange that includes patient experiences and descriptions of successful and failed attempts to address problems and complications in these patients is necessary. In the meantime, experiences with these types of wounds need to be shared in the literature.
The anesthetic management of a patient with streptococcal toxic shock-like syndrome--a case report.	Streptococcal toxic shock-like syndrome (TSLS), a severe multisystem disorder with rapid progression and fulminant course, is caused by group A beta-hemolytic streptococcal (GAS) infection. The mortality rate is around 30%. It has been reported in the United States and Europe since the 1980s. The recent recognition of this syndrome is thought to stem from the appearance of more virulent strains of streptococci with a greater tendency to produce potent exotoxins than prior ones. Early diagnosis, treatment with penicillin, radical operative debridement and adjuvant therapy with immunoglobulin and plasma exchange may bear a favourable outcome. A case of TSLS who received surgical management in operating room is presented in this paper.
Long-term results of operation for paravalvular abscess.	Operation for infective endocarditis with paravalvular abscess is reportedly associated with high mortality and morbidity rates. In an attempt to improve surgical outcome, an approach of radical resection of the abscess and inflamed tissues and reconstruction of the heart with either fresh or glutaraldehyde-fixed bovine pericardium was adopted by two surgeons at our institution.
