Pentoxifylline inhibits superantigen-induced toxic shock and cytokine release.	Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) is a critical cytokine that mediates the toxic effects of bacterial superantigens like staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB) and toxic shock syndrome toxin 1 (TSST-1). Pentoxifylline, an anti-inflammatory agent that inhibits endotoxemia and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced release of TNF-alpha, was tested for its ability to inhibit SEB- and TSST-1-induced activation of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) in vitro and toxin-mediated shock in mice. Stimulation of PBMCs by SEB or TSST-1 was effectively blocked by pentoxifylline (10 mM), as evidenced by the inhibition of TNF-alpha, interleukin 1beta (IL-1beta), gamma interferon (IFN-gamma), and T-cell proliferation. The levels of TNF-alpha, IL-1alpha, and IFN-gamma in serum after an SEB or TSST-1 injection were significantly lower in mice given pentoxifylline (5.5 mg/animal) versus control mice. Additionally, pentoxifylline diminished the lethal effects and temperature fluctuations elicited by SEB and TSST-1. Thus, in addition to treating endotoxemias, the cumulative in vitro and in vivo data suggest that pentoxifylline may also be useful in abrogating the ill effects of staphylococcal enterotoxins and TSST-1.
Superantigens in human disease.	Superantigens have been implicated in a wide variety of human diseases. Yet, solid evidence for their role in pathogenesis is available only for Toxic Shock Syndrome and a few other conditions. This evidence is critically reviewed herein.
Staphylococcus aureus isogenic mutant, deficient in toxic shock syndrome toxin-1 but not staphylococcal enterotoxin A production, exhibits attenuated virulence in a tampon-associated vaginal infection model of toxic shock syndrome.	Since menstrual toxic shock syndrome (MTSS) is associated with a predominant clone of Staphylococcus aureus which produces both toxic shock syndrome toxin-1 (TSST-1) and staphylococcal enterotoxin A (SEA), we sought to clarify the role of TSST-1 in a tampon-associated vaginal infection model in New Zealand White (NZW) rabbits, using isogenic tst+/sea+ S. aureus mutants in which tst was inactivated by allelic replacement. Rabbits infected with the tst-/sea+ strain became ill within 3 days, with fever, weight loss, conjunctival hyperemia, and lethargy. Mortality was significantly higher with the tst+/sea+ strain compared to its tst-/sea+ isogenic derivative (4/13 vs. 0/14; p < 0.05, Fisher's exact test, 2-tailed). Mean fever index was higher (p < 0.005; t test, 2-tailed) and weight loss more sustained among survivors in the tst+/sea+ group. Furthermore, culture filtrates from the tst+/sea+ strain induced a significantly greater response in mitogenesis and TNF alpha secretion from rabbit splenocytes in vitro compared to the tst-/sea+ isogenic derivative. Thus, regardless of the role of SEA, TSST-1 significantly contributed to both morbidity and mortality in this tampon-associated vaginal infection model in NZW rabbits. This is the first demonstration of the potential role of TSST-1 and SEA in the pathogenesis of MTSS with a MTSS-associated clinical S. aureus strain in a relevant animal model.
Enhanced tumor necrosis factor-alpha-specific and decreased interleukin-10-specific immune responses to LPS during the third trimester of pregnancy in mice.	It is increasingly apparent that there is a bidirectional interaction between the maternal immune system and the reproductive system during pregnancy. Pregnancy is associated with a suppression of maternal specific immune responses, which process underlies the protection of fetal tissues expressing paternally inherited alloantigens. However, recent evidence indicates that the suppression of specific, lymphocyte-mediated immune responses during pregnancy is accompanied by activation of the non-specific arm of the maternal immune response. In the present study, we have investigated the effect of pregnancy on the non-specific immune response induced by bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS, endotoxin) in mice. Pregnancy enhanced the LPS-induced production of proinflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin (IL)-6, and interferon-gamma. On the other hand, LPS-induced levels of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 were suppressed in pregnant mice. These alterations in cytokine production correlated with an increased susceptibility for endotoxemic mortality in the pregnant mice. Although adrenergic receptors are important regulators of cytokine production in non-pregnant mice, the alpha(2)- and the beta-adrenoceptor-mediated modulation of cytokine production ceases to operate during pregnancy associated with severe endotoxemia. These data may explain how excessive activation of the non-specific immune responses during pregnancy can contribute to the increased severity of some maternal diseases, including septic shock, and can be an important pathophysiological factor in disseminated intravascular coagulation or preeclampsia.
Microdialysis-evaluated myocardial cyclooxygenase-mediated inflammation and early circulatory depression in porcine endotoxemia.	To evaluate the early myocardial biochemical inflammatory response with the microdialysis technique during porcine endotoxemia and to simultaneously monitor systemic hemodynamics.
Circulating endotoxin and antiendotoxin antibodies during severe sepsis and septic shock.	The presence of circulating endotoxin is common during sepsis but its prognostic value is poor. We hypothesized that this lack of correlation with outcome could be related in part to the presence of circulating antiendotoxin antibodies. In a 14-bed medical intensive care unit, in an 821-bed tertiary teaching hospital, we prospectively assessed endotoxin and antiendotoxin antibodies in patients with severe sepsis or septic shock. Blood samples for the determination of circulating endotoxin and antiendotoxin antibodies were drawn when severe sepsis or septic shock were diagnosed (day 0) and then on day 1, day 2, and day 4. Daily measurements of antiendotoxin antibodies did not discriminate survivors from nonsurvivors. No antibody depletion was observed. However, during follow-up, the antiendotoxin immunoglobulin (Ig)M antibody level increased among survivors but decreased among nonsurvivors (51.2 vs -44.8 MU/mL, P=007). Circulating endotoxin was detectable among 9 of 17 patients on inclusion but neither the basal value nor sequential measurements correlated with outcome. These results suggest that during severe sepsis and septic shock, circulating endotoxin is a poor prognostic marker whereas the detection of an increase in IgM antiendotoxin antibody levels could identify survivors. This increase in IgM antibody levels could be attributed to a reactivation of the immune system.
Amelioration of endotoxin-induced sepsis in rats by membrane anchored lipid conjugates.	In the pathogenesis of septic shock, caused by either bacterial toxins or trauma, increased production of multiple proinflammatory mediators, such as phospholipase A(2) (PLA(2)), cytokines, and chemokines, is known to be of major importance. The present study was undertaken to investigate the influence of a newly designed extracellular PLA(2) inhibitor (ExPLI) on synthesis of proinflammatory mediators and mortality rate in a rat sepsis model.
Marked elevation of human circulating CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells in sepsis-induced immunoparalysis.	Immunoparalysis has recently emerged as a possible cause explaining the failure of clinical trials in septic shock. Because human peripheral blood CD4+CD25+ T cells have been characterized as suppressor T cells, we hypothesized they might be increased in sepsis-induced immunoparalysis.
Endotoxin-neutralizing capacity of soluble CD14.	Luminol-enhanced chemiluminescence was used to determine the effect of soluble CD14 (sCD14) on the endotoxin-inducible generation of reactive oxygen species in human monocytes. It was necessary to mediate lipopolysaccharide (LPS) monocyte-activating capability by serum factors (LPS-binding proteins). sCD14 reduced LPS-inducible monocyte activation in a dose-dependent manner, even in the case of CD14- monocytes, obtained from a patient with paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria. These monocytes could be activated by opsonized LPS via other receptors. Using anti-mouse Ig-coated microbeads, it was demonstrated in FACS analysis that sCD14 mediates the binding of a mouse monoclonal anti-CD14 antibody (RoMo 1) to a complex of LPS/FITC (fluoroisothiocyanate) and a LPS-binding protein. The release of sCD14 from cultured monocytes was measured using LPS, TNF alpha (tumour necrosis factor), IL1, 4 and 6 (interleukin-1, -4 and -6) and IFN gamma (interferon-gamma) as stimulators. Addition of LPS and TNF alpha led to a dose-dependent increase in sCD14-levels in the culture supernatant, whereas IL1, IL6 and IFN gamma had no significant effect. IL4 dose-dependently depressed spontaneous sCD14 release. It is possible that elevated sCD14-serum levels in polytraumatized patients indicate a natural protective mechanism against excessive monocyte mediator production. Therefore, sCD14 may be a new therapeutic concept in endotoxic shock prevention.
Overexpressed nuclear factor kappaB correlates with enhanced expression of interleukin-1beta and inducible nitric oxide synthase in aged murine lungs to endotoxic stress.	Transcriptional regulation is a major determinant of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) protein synthesis. Nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) plays a central role in the regulation of IL-1beta and subsequent IL-1beta-dependent inflammatory processes. Previously, we observed in a murine endotoxic stress model a progressive increase with age in the amount of IL-1beta mRNA. We test the aging pulmonary response of NF-kappaB and NF-kappaB-dependent genes, IL-1beta, and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in the same model.
Modulation of human leukocyte antigen-DR on monocytes and CD16 on granulocytes in patients with septic shock using hemoperfusion with polymyxin B-immobilized fiber.	Hemoperfusion with PMX-F (polymyxin B covalently immobilized on fibers) has been reported to be safe and effective for patients with septic shock. However, the molecular mechanism of this usefulness is not yet clear. The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether the expression of CD14, human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-DR on monocytes, and the expression of CD16, CD11b/CD18 on neutrophils, are altered in septic patients according to the severity, and whether PMX-F treatment affects the clinical parameters and the expression of leukocyte surface antigen expression.
Changes in the novel orphan, C5a receptor (C5L2), during experimental sepsis and sepsis in humans.	Sepsis is associated with extensive complement activation, compromising innate immune defenses, especially in neutrophils (PMN). Recently, a second C5a receptor (C5L2) was detected on PMN without evidence of intracellular signaling. The current study was designed to determine changes in C5L2 in blood PMN during sepsis. In vitro exposure of PMN to C5a, but not to fMLP, led to reduced content of C5L2. Following cecal ligation and puncture-induced sepsis in rats, PMN demonstrated a time-dependent decrease in C5L2. In vivo blockade of C5a during experimental sepsis resulted in preservation of C5L2. Similarly, PMN from patients with progressive sepsis showed significantly reduced C5L2 expression (n = 26), which was virtually abolished in patients who developed multiorgan failure (n = 10). In contrast, sepsis survivors exhibited retention of C5L2 (n = 12/13). The data suggest that C5L2 on PMN diminishes during sepsis due to systemic generation of C5a, which is associated with a poor prognosis.
Haptoglobin dampens endotoxin-induced inflammatory effects both in vitro and in vivo.	We report that haptoglobin, an acute-phase protein produced by liver cells in response to interleukin-6 (IL-6), can modulate the inflammatory response induced by endotoxins. We provide evidence that haptoglobin has the ability to selectively antagonize lipopolysaccharide (LPS) effects in vitro by suppressing monocyte production of tumour necrosis factor-alpha, IL-10 and IL-12, while it fails to inhibit the production of IL-6, IL-8 and IL-1 receptor antagonist. In two animal models of LPS-induced bronchopulmonary hyperreactivity and endotoxic shock, haptoglobin knockout mice were more sensitive to LPS effects compared to their wild-type counterparts. The present data suggest that haptoglobin regulates monocyte activation following LPS stimulation. The increase in haptoglobin levels during an acute-phase reaction may generate a feedback effect which dampens the severity of cytokine release and protects against endotoxin-induced effects.
The role of the complement system in trauma and infection.	The complement system is an important immediate host defense mechanism after trauma, extensive burn injury and after invasion by microbial pathogens. Massive complement activation, however, seems to be detrimental and may contribute further to the disease process and eventually to multiple organ failure or the septic state. In clinical situations in which complement is damaging, the logical therapy should be, if at all possible, the removal of the activated complement components from the circulation. However, much of the protein is attached to the membrane and effective locally, so prevention of the enzymatic cascade may be more appropriate. There has been little progress in manipulating the complement system to effectively alter such disease processes caused by the clinical situations and there is an important need for further research in the field.
Effects of an immune-enhancing diet in endotoxemic rats.	This work compared the nutritional efficiency of a recently available enteral formula enriched with arginine, omega-3 fatty acids, and antioxidants and supplied nitrogen as peptides (Crucial, Nestle Clinical Nutrition) with that of a standard polymeric formula (Sondalis HP, Nestle Clinical Nutrition) in endotoxemic rats.
Persistent elevation of high mobility group box-1 protein (HMGB1) in patients with severe sepsis and septic shock.	To study the systemic release and kinetics of high mobility group box-1 protein (HMGB1) in relation to clinical features in a population of patients with severe sepsis or septic shock and to compare these with the kinetics of the cytokines interleukin-6, interleukin-8, interleukin-10, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha.
Uptake, distribution and fate of bacterial lipopolysaccharides in monocytes and macrophages: an ultrastructural and functional correlation.	Bacterial lipopolysaccharides (LPS), which are important components of the cell wall of gram-negative bacteria, induce a number of host responses both beneficial and harmful. The present review elucidates the uptake, distribution and functions of LPS in mononuclear phagocytes in an attempt to gain an insight into the mechanisms which control the pathogenesis of LPS mediated septic shock. The unique feature of LPS bilayer structure, the tagged LPS and antibodies to LPS provide means for studying binding, uptake, fate and subcellular distribution of LPS in tissues and cells. LPS bind to monocytes and macrophages by specific interaction via receptors such as scavenger receptors, CD14 and CD18 and by non-specific interactions, and enter the cells via receptor-mediated endocytosis, absorptive pinocytosis, phagocytosis, and diffusion. The ingested LPS are localized in pinocytic vesicles, phagocytic vacuoles, cytoplasm, mitochondria, rough endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi apparatus, and nucleus. The interactions of LPS with monocytes and macrophages trigger a broad spectrum of cellular responses, including production of important bioactive factors or mediators, such as IL-1, TNF, interferons, prostaglandins, and macrophage-derived growth factor, which are implicated in the pathogenesis of septic shock and wound healing. However, there is no conclusive evidence indicating that production of the mediators can only be induced through specific interactions.
Increased cholesterol deposition, expression of scavenger receptors, and response to chemotactic factors in Abca1-deficient macrophages.	Studies in bone marrow transplanted from ATP-binding cassette transporter A1 (ABCA1)-deficient mice into normal mice provides direct evidence that the absence of leukocyte ABCA1 exerts a marked proatherogenic effect independent of changes in plasma lipids, suggesting that ABCA1 plays a key role in the regulation of cholesterol homeostasis and function of macrophages. Therefore, we examined whether the absence of ABCA1 affects the morphology, properties, and functional activities of macrophages that could be related to the development of atherosclerosis.
Comparative effects of early randomized immune or non-immune-enhancing enteral nutrition on cytokine production in children with septic shock.	To compare the effect of early enteral feeding using immune-enhancing (IE) vs. non-immune-enhancing (NIE) formulas on cytokines in children with septic shock.
ROS-dependent activation of the TRAF6-ASK1-p38 pathway is selectively required for TLR4-mediated innate immunity.	Apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1 (ASK1) is an evolutionarily conserved mitogen-activated protein 3-kinase that activates both Jnk and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinases. Here we used ASK1-deficient mice to show that ASK1 was selectively required for lipopolysaccharide-induced activation of p38 but not of Jnk or the transcription factor NF-kappaB. ASK1 was required for the induction of proinflammatory cytokines dependent on Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) but not TLR2 or other TLRs. Consistent with this, ASK1-deficient mice were resistant to lipopolysaccharide-induced septic shock. Lipopolysaccharide induced the production of intracellular reactive oxygen species, which was required for the formation of a complex of the adaptor molecule TRAF6 and ASK1 and subsequent activation of the ASK1-p38 pathway. Our data demonstrate that the reactive oxygen species-dependent TRAF6-ASK1-p38 axis is crucial for TLR4-mediated mammalian innate immunity.
Endogenous interleukin-6 plays a crucial protective role in streptococcal toxic shock syndrome via suppression of tumor necrosis factor alpha production.	During a Streptococcus pyogenes infection in interleukin-6 (IL-6)-deficient mice, there is elevation of serum tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) levels, muscular necrosis, and death compared with infection of C57BL/6 mice. Anti-TNF-alpha monoclonal antibody treatment decreased mortality and muscular necrosis in the infected IL-6-deficient mice. These results suggest that IL-6 plays a crucial protective role via suppression of TNF-alpha production in S. pyogenes infection.
Clinical aspects, pathophysiology, therapy and expert evaluation of splenectomy]	Splenectomy increases on principle and for life the risk to die of a foudroyant postsplenectomy infection, the so called OPSI-syndrome. The main factors determining the frequency of the OPSI-syndrome are the age at time of operation and the indication for splenectomy. Postsplenectomy infection is mostly caused by pneumococci. In general the important pathophysiological factors are a lack of filtration capacity, a decreased opsonisation activity and a deficiency of early immunoglobulin production. The increased risk of children is probably caused by a physiologically reduced immune response and a cumulation of primary infections. In the foudroyant course of postsplenectomy infection therapy is mostly taken not in time, and mortality ranges between 50 and 80%. For this reason it is necessary to stress prophylaxis as: antibiotics, vaccination, autotransplantation and preserving surgery. The effectivity and application of these prophylactic measurements are clearly limited. Therefore it is very important to inform all patients and their parents about the low, but lifelong risk of infection following splenectomy in order to begin the antibiotic therapy as soon as possible even in cases of banal infections. In expert opinion about the loss of spleen the real situation of the splenectomized individual has to be regarded in making very precise analysis of the course of disease. This has to be done in considering the branch of insurance ordering the opinion (legal accident insurance, legal pensions insurance, social compensation law, private accident or life insurance). If infections or other illness often appear after splenectomy, these have to recognized as resulting impairment, provided that other causes have been excluded. In uncomplicated course it is not justified to suppose disability only by immanent risk.
Intestinal anastomosis surgery with no septic shock primes for a dysregulatory response to a second stimulus.	Major surgery is believed to contribute to immune dysregulation and high susceptibility to microbes. Recently, the inflammatory "two-hit" model has been accepted to elucidate development of multiple organ failure in surgical patients. Our purpose was to examine whether intestinal surgery, which causes a minor insult with no septic shock, may modify the immune response to exogenous LPS as a second stimulus.
Protection against endotoxic shock by a tumor necrosis factor receptor immunoadhesin.	Tumor necrosis factors (TNF) alpha and beta are structurally related cytokines that mediate a wide range of immunological, inflammatory, and cytotoxic effects. During bacterial infection of the bloodstream (sepsis), TNF-alpha induction by bacterial endotoxin is thought to be a major factor contributing to the cardiovascular collapse and critical organ failure that can develop. Despite antibiotic therapy, these consequences of sepsis continue to have a high mortality rate in humans. Here we describe a potent TNF antagonist, a TNF receptor (TNFR) immunoadhesin, constructed by gene fusion of the extracellular portion of human type 1 TNFR with the constant domains of human IgG heavy chain (TNFR-IgG). When expressed in transfected human cells, TNFR-IgG is secreted as a disulfide-bonded homodimer. Purified TNFR-IgG binds to both TNF-alpha and TNF-beta and exhibits 6- to 8-fold higher affinity for TNF-alpha than cell surface or soluble TNF receptors. In vitro, TNFR-IgG blocks completely the cytolytic effect of TNF-alpha or TNF-beta on actinomycin D-treated cells and is markedly more efficient than soluble TNFR (24-fold) or monoclonal anti-TNF-alpha antibodies (4-fold) in inhibiting TNF-alpha. In vitro, TNFR-IgG prevents endotoxin-induced lethality in mice when given 0.5 hr prior to endotoxin and provides significant protection when given up to 1 hr after endotoxin challenge. These results confirm the importance of TNF-alpha in the pathogenesis of septic shock and suggest a clinical potential for TNFR-IgG as a preventive and therapeutic treatment in sepsis.
Persisting low monocyte human leukocyte antigen-DR expression predicts mortality in septic shock.	The immediate overwhelming release of inflammatory mediators in septic shock is rapidly followed by strong anti-inflammatory responses inducing a state of immunosuppression. The patients who survive the initial hyper-inflammatory step of septic shock but subsequently die may be those who do not recover from immunosuppression. We assessed whether a low monocyte human leukocyte antigen-DR (mHLA-DR) expression, proposed as a marker of immunosuppression, is an independent predictor of mortality in patients who survived the initial 48 h of septic shock.
Social interactions, stress, and immunity.	This review summarizes the endocrine and immune changes induced by an experimental model for social stress that is termed SDR. Further, the differences between this stressor and other chronic stress models in mice are compared and contrasted. Individual differences in the response to SDR are described and discussed in the context of the unique characteristics of this stressor and the importance of a variety of behavioral and environmental factors in modulating the response to social stress. The collection of data indicates that mice facing a social stressor may use different behavioral coping responses based on the environmental conditions and previous experiences. These different adaptational responses are reflected in their behavioral, endocrine, and immune changes in response to the stressor [7], [8]. In conclusion, although generally it is understood that chronic stressors suppress immune function and increase a host's susceptibility to disease, this may not be dogma. For example, under conditions in which individuals face the chance of being injured, which may be a chronic or reoccurring likelihood, it may be an adaptive advantage to maintain or even enhance an immune response. The development of GCR after SDR may be such a mechanism, allowing animals to heal injuries and clear invading bacteria in the presence of the anti-inflammatory stress hormones. Thus, individual differences in response to SDR are associated with specific behavioral strategies that can have substantive implications for host resistance to infectious disease.
Streptococcus pyogenes: Insight into the function of the streptococcal superantigens.	The group A streptococcus produces a number of highly potent exoproteins that act as superantigens. The cascade of pro-inflammatory events that follow invasive streptococcal infection is greatly enhanced by production of such toxins, leading to profound hypotension and multi-organ failure in some cases. Superantigens such as streptococcal mitogenic exotoxin Z (SMEZ) interact with host MHC class II and the T cell receptor, leading to activation events in both cells. In vitro, these interactions lead to expansion and cytokine production by specified T cell subsets. Studies using humanized HLA class II transgenic mice and isogenic streptococcal strains have characterised the in vivo responses to superantigens produced in the context of live infection. Notwithstanding the obvious deleterious role of superantigens in toxic shock, the evolutionary advantage conferred by these toxins remains a subject of speculation.
Staphylococcal enterotoxin B in vivo modulates both gamma interferon receptor expression and ligand-induced activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 in T cells.	Superantigens (SAg) are bacterial exotoxins that provoke extreme responses in the immune system; for example, the acute hyperactivation of SAg-reactive T cells that leads to toxic shock syndrome is followed within days by strong immunosuppression. The gamma interferon (IFN-gamma) response is deeply affected in both extremes. The implication of IFN-gamma in the pathophysiology of lethal shock induced in mice after a secondary challenge with the SAg staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB) prompted us to study the regulation of IFN-gamma secretion and the intracellular response. We demonstrate in this study that a rechallenge with SEB becomes lethal only when given inside a critical time window after SEB priming and is associated with an increase of IFN-gamma serum release 72 h after priming. However, at this time, a selective blockade of IFN-gamma/STAT1 signaling develops in spleen cells, correlating with a lack of expression of the IFN-gamma receptor beta subunit and STAT1 in the T-cell population. Selective blockade of the STAT1 signaling pathway--while simultaneously maintaining STAT3 signaling and expression--may be a protective mechanism that shortens IFN-gamma production during the Th1 effector response. This blockade may also have consequences on switching towards a suppressor phenotype with chronic exposure to the superantigen.
Endotoxin augments hemodynamic and metabolic effects of formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine (FMLP) in rabbits.	The chemotactic factor formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine (FMLP) when injected in rabbits causes dose-dependent transient hypotension, as well as neutropenia, thrombocytopenia and a decrease in systemic vascular resistance, as previously shown. Since both FMLP and endotoxin are elaborated at sites of infection by certain bacteria, whether they act in concert to produce shock was examined. Animals were pretreated with 380 microg/kg of E. coli endotoxin, 24 hours before the infusion of 10(-9) moles FMLP and were compared with animals pretreated only with saline and administered FMLP. Within 3 min after FMLP, endotoxin-pretreated animals developed a significant fall in MAP (p < 0.001) and neutrophils (p < 0.001) compared to controls. Statistically significant lactic acidemia, with reduced HCO(-)3 levels also developed in the endotoxin-pretreated group after FMLP injection. These results indicate that endotoxin apparently induces a prepared state, thus facilitating the hemodynamic and cellular effects of FMLP in this model.
Systemic cytokine response in moribund mice of streptococcal toxic shock syndrome model.	Streptococcus pyogenes causes severe invasive disease in humans, including streptococcal toxic shock syndrome (STSS). We previously reported a mouse model that is similar to human STSS. When mice were infected intramuscularly with 10(7) CFU of S. pyogenes, all of them survived acute phase of infection. After 20 or more days of infection, a number of them died suddenly accompanied by S. pyogenes bacteremia. We call this phenomenon "delayed death". We analyzed the serum cytokine levels of mice with delayed death, and compared them with those of mice who died in the acute phase of intravenous S. pyogenes infection. The serum levels of TNF-α and IFN-γ in mice of delayed death were more than 100 times higher than those in acute death mice. IL-10 and IL-12, which were not detected in acute death, were also significantly higher in mice of delayed death. IL-6 and MCP-1 (CCL-2) were elevated in both groups of mice. It was noteworthy that not only pro-inflammatory cytokines but also anti-inflammatory cytokines were elevated in delayed death. We also found that intravenous TNF-α injection accelerated delayed death, suggesting that an increase of serum TNF-α induced S. pyogenes bacteremia in our mouse model.
Programmed death-1 levels correlate with increased mortality, nosocomial infection and immune dysfunctions in septic shock patients.	Septic shock remains a major health care problem worldwide. Sepsis-induced immune alterations are thought to play a major role in patients' mortality and susceptibility to nosocomial infections. Programmed death-1 (PD-1) receptor system constitutes a newly described immunoregulatory pathway that negatively controls immune responses. It has recently been shown that PD-1 knock-out mice exhibited a lower mortality in response to experimental sepsis. The objective of the present study was to investigate PD-1-related molecule expressions in septic shock patients.
Role of CLIC4 in the host innate responses to bacterial lipopolysaccharide.	Chloride intracellular channel (CLIC) 4 has diverse functions in membrane trafficking, apoptosis, angiogenesis and cell differentiation. CLIC4 is abundantly expressed in macrophages, but its role in innate immune functions is unclear. Here, we show that primary murine macrophages express increased amounts of CLIC4 after exposure to bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Endogenous CLIC4 level was significantly elevated in the brain, heart, lung, kidney, liver and spleen after LPS injection of mice. Stable macrophage lines overexpressing CLIC4 produced more TNF, IL-6, IL-12 and CCL5 than mock transfectants when exposed to LPS. To explore the role of CLIC4 in vivo, we generated CLIC4-null mice. These mice were protected from LPS-induced death, and had reduced serum levels of inflammatory cytokines. Upon infection with Listeria monocytogenes, CLIC4-deficient mice were impaired in their ability to clear infection, and their macrophages responded to Listeria by producing less inflammatory cytokines and chemokines than the WT controls. When challenged with LPS in vitro, deletion of clic4 gene had little effect on MAPK and NF-κB activation, but led to a reduced accumulation of phosphorylated interferon response factor 3 (IRF3) within macrophages. Conversely, overexpression of CLIC4 enhanced LPS-mediated IRF3. Thus, these findings suggest that CLIC4 is an LPS-induced product that can serve as a positive regulator of LPS signaling.
The interaction between IL-18 and IL-18 receptor limits the magnitude of protective immunity and enhances pathogenic responses following infection with intracellular bacteria.	The binding of IL-18 to IL-18Rα induces both proinflammatory and protective functions during infection, depending on the context in which it occurs. IL-18 is highly expressed in the liver of wild-type (WT) C57BL/6 mice following lethal infection with highly virulent Ixodes ovatus ehrlichia (IOE), an obligate intracellular bacterium that causes acute fatal toxic shock-like syndrome. In this study, we found that IOE infection of IL-18Rα(-/-) mice resulted in significantly less host cell apoptosis, decreased hepatic leukocyte recruitment, enhanced bacterial clearance, and prolonged survival compared with infected WT mice, suggesting a pathogenic role for IL-18/IL-18Rα in Ehrlichia-induced toxic shock. Although lack of IL-18R decreased the magnitude of IFN-γ producing type-1 immune response, enhanced resistance of IL-18Rα(-/-) mice against Ehrlichia correlated with increased proinflammatory cytokines at sites of infection, decreased systemic IL-10 production, increased frequency of protective NKT cells producing TNF-α and IFN-γ, and decreased frequency of pathogenic TNF-α-producing CD8(+) T cells. Adoptive transfer of immune WT CD8(+) T cells increased bacterial burden in IL-18Rα(-/-) mice following IOE infection. Furthermore, rIL-18 treatment of WT mice infected with mildly virulent Ehrlichia muris impaired bacterial clearance and enhanced liver injury. Finally, lack of IL-18R signal reduced dendritic cell maturation and their TNF-α production, suggesting that IL-18 might promote the adaptive pathogenic immune responses against Ehrlichia by influencing T cell priming functions of dendritic cells. Together, these results suggested that the presence or absence of IL-18R signals governs the pathogenic versus protective immunity in a model of Ehrlichia-induced immunopathology.
Lipopolysaccharide- and superantigen-modulated superoxide production and monocyte hyporesponsiveness to activating stimuli in sepsis.	The effects of acute and prior exposure to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB) on superoxide release by monocytes were examined in control subjects and in patients with sepsis and septic shock during the acute stage and recovery. High doses of LPS, PMA (phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate), and SEB stimulated monocyte superoxide release in control subjects (P < 0.05). Pretreatment of normal monocytes with these doses of LPS, PMA, and SEB induced significant hyporesponsiveness to subsequent challenge (P < 0.01), and evidence of cross-tolerance was observed. Monocytes isolated from patients with sepsis and septic shock demonstrated high spontaneous superoxide release compared with those of control subjects (P < 0.05). Stimulation of patient monocytes with LPS or SEB resulted in less superoxide production than that spontaneously released by controls (P < 0.01). In patients recovering from their initial infection, spontaneous superoxide release was less than that released during acute stage. In addition, the superoxide release in response to the same stimuli was significantly increased when compared with release during the acute stage (P < 0.05). These data demonstrate that both LPS and SEB induce hyporesponsiveness to LPS- or SEB-stimulated superoxide release. A similar pattern of hyporesponsiveness was observed during sepsis that may represent a mechanism for modulating the inflammatory response during severe infections.
Immunotherapies in infectious diseases.	The development of an infection involves interplay between the host's immune system and the virulence of the infecting microorganism. The traditional treatment of an infection involves antimicrobial chemotherapy to kill the organism. The use of immunotherapies in infections includes treatment options that modulate the immune response and can lead to control of infections. These therapies are expected to become more important therapeutic options with the increase in infections due to multidrug-resistant organisms and the increasing number of immunocompromised patients.
Beneficial role of endogenous immunoglobulin subclasses and isotypes in septic shock.	There is increasing evidence on the relationship between endogenously produced immunoglobulins and the clinical outcome in septic shock (SS).
Tim-3 signaling pathway as a novel negative mediator in lipopolysaccharide-induced endotoxic shock.	Sepsis is a complex clinical condition caused by a dysregulated immune response to an infection. However, the mechanism by which our immune system controls this amplified inflammation is largely unknown. In this study, we investigated whether Tim-3 pathway could serve as a negative mediator in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced endotoxic shock. Our results showed that Tim-3 was expressed on CD4(+) T cells, CD8(+) T cells, and NK cells, and was significantly increased in the peritoneal cavity of septic mice. Tim-3 acted as a marker of immune exhaustion and Tim-3-positive T cells and NK cells had a lower interferon (IFN)-γ production. Furthermore, blockade of Tim-3 pathway significantly accelerated mortality in septic mice, while activation of this pathway prolonged survival time. In vitro administration of Tim-3 blocking antibody restored the release of IFN-γ from splenocytes and decreased splenocyte apoptosis, and increased levels of IFN-γ and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α were also detected in septic mice at 24h post in vivo administration of the antibody. In contrast, activation of Tim-3 pathway prevented cell proliferation. Thus, Tim-3 signaling pathway acts as a novel negative mediator in LPS-induced endotoxic shock and could be a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of sepsis. 
Activation of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-3 in macrophages restrains TLR4-NF-κB signaling and protects against endotoxin shock.	Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are critical in mediating innate immune responses against infections. However, uncontrolled TLR-triggered inflammation is associated with endotoxin shock. To better understand the homeostatic mechanisms induced by TLR4 signaling, we screened a group of key cytokines, chemokines, growth factors, and their receptors for bacteria- or LPS-induced expression. The surface vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-3 (VEGFR-3) and its ligand VEGF-C were upregulated in macrophages. VEGFR-3 ligation by VEGF-C significantly attenuated proinflammatory cytokine production. Notably, ablation of the ligand-binding domain or tyrosine kinase activity of VEGFR-3 rendered mice more sensitive to septic shock. VEGFR-3 restrained TLR4-NF-κB activation by regulating the PI3-kinase-Akt signaling pathway and SOCS1 expression. Aside from targeting lymphatic vessels, we suggest a key role of VEGFR-3 on macrophages to prevent infections that is complicated with lymphoedema. Thus, VEGFR-3-VEGF-C signaling represents a "self-control" mechanism during antibacterial innate immunity.
Soluble IFN receptor potentiates in vivo type I IFN signaling and exacerbates TLR4-mediated septic shock.	Circulating levels of a soluble type I IFNR are elevated in diseases, such as chronic inflammation, infections, and cancer, but whether it functions as an antagonist, agonist, or transporter is unknown. In this study, we elucidate the in vivo importance of the soluble type I IFNAR, soluble (s)IFNAR2a, which is generated by alternative splicing of the Ifnar2 gene. A transgenic mouse model was established to mimic the 10-15-fold elevated expression of sIFNAR2a observed in some human diseases. We generated transgenic mouse lines, designated SolOX, in which the transgene mRNA and protein-expression patterns mirrored the expression patterns of the endogenous gene. SolOX were demonstrated to be more susceptible to LPS-mediated septic shock, a disease model in which type I IFN plays a crucial role. This effect was independent of "classical" proinflammatory cytokines, such as TNF-α and IL-6, whose levels were unchanged. Because the increased levels of sIFNAR2a did not affect the kinetics of the increased interferonemia, this soluble receptor does not potentiate its ligand signaling by improving IFN pharmacokinetics. Mechanistically, increased levels of sIFNAR2a are likely to facilitate IFN signaling, as demonstrated in spleen cells overexpressing sIFNAR2a, which displayed quicker, higher, and more sustained activation of STAT1 and STAT3. Thus, the soluble IFNR is an important agonist of endogenous IFN actions in pathophysiological processes and also is likely to modulate the therapeutic efficacy of clinically administered IFNs. 
IgG antibodies to toxic shock syndrome toxin-1 (TSST-1) in human sera]	IgG antibodies against toxic shock syndrome toxin-1 (TSST-1) in 2002 human sera were determined using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The results indicate a very early common exposure to TSST-1 in German males and females. The antibody titers are increasing up to the age of 20. They continue to increase further from the mid-thirties, reaching a peak level in the mid-fifties. Toxic shock syndrome is rarely described in Germany. It is possible, therefore, that most of the infections with TSST-1 producing S. aureus are of a subclinical nature. An atypical, less dramatic course than the commonly known toxic shock syndrome is also discussed.
IgG antibodies against toxic shock syndrome toxin 1 in human immunoglobulins]	IgG antibodies against toxic shock syndrome toxin-1 in human immunoglobulins were determined using the ELISA technique. Of the drugs for intramuscular application, hemogamma and beriglobin contained the highest amount of antibodies. The highest concentration of antibodies in drugs for intravenous application was found in Pseudomonas polyglobin and in Venimmun.
Toxic shock syndrome in menstruating women.	Eight adult women became severely ill with an acute, toxic erythroderma during menses. The syndrome was characterized by fever, generalized erythema, profound shock, multiple organ dysfunction, and desquamation occurring several days after the rash had faded. Gastrointestinal and cardiovascular abnormalities were present in all patients; three patients required ventilatory support; dialysis was performed on two; and one patient died. Mild relapse occurred in two patients during subsequent menses; the other patients have recovered without sequelae during follow-up of 6 to 42 months. Cervical colonization or local infection with Staphylococcus aureus is associated with this syndrome.
Multiple organ failure: clinical and experimental.	The clinical scenario of multiple organ failure (MOF) is reviewed and its frequent correlation with sepsis emphasized. It is hypothesized that MOF is produced by the formation of immune complexes (IC) in response to infection with deposition on organs such as the liver, lung, and kidney. Such immune complexes trap macrophages which can directly damage endothelium. Such a pathologic picture is in keeping with that of MOF. Granular deposits of IgG, IgM, C3, C5, and fibrinogen have been identified in the organs of four patients dying of MOF and sepsis. Similar deposits have been identified using fluorescent antibody stains in the organs of rabbits following cecal perforation. It is hypothesized that sepsis may produce organ failure at a distance from the site of infection via deposits of immune complexes.
Plasma fibronectin (opsonic glycoprotein): its synthesis by vascular endothelial cells and role in cardiopulmonary integrity after trauma as related to reticuloendothelial function.	Progressive multiple organ failure in association with septic complications in the surgical, trauma and burn patient is of major clinical importance. Reticuloendothelial system host defense mechanisms are abnormal following severe trauma and burn. Failure in systemic host defense is, in part, mediated by a deficiency in a circulating opsonic alpha 2 surface binding (SB) glycoprotein. This opsonic deficiency and reticuloendothelial host defense failure appears etiologic in the genesis of organ failure with sepsis. Opsonic alpha 2SB glycoprotein is identical to cold-insoluble globulin or plasma fibronectin. Plasma fibronectin is antigenically related to cell surface fibronectin which appears to be synthesized by both fibroblasts and vascular endothelial cells. Although these two proteins are antigenically related, they may or may not be identical with respect to biochemical properties and function. Cell surface fibronectin appears to be an adhesive glycoprotein mediating cell-cell interaction and cell adhesion to a substratum. Plasma fibronectin is a more soluble form which mediates reticuloendothelial or macrophage clearance of particulates such as fibrin microaggregates, collagenous debris, perhaps other bacterial or nonbacterial particulates. Since opsonic glycoprotein is identical to cold-insoluble globulin which can be readily concentrated in plasma cryoprecipitate, it has been shown that cryoprecipitate infusion can reverse opsonic deficiency in the injured patient with sepsis. Reversal of opsonic deficiency by cryoprecipitate infusion results in a marked improvement in cardiopulmonary function which includes a decline in the pulmonary shunt, a decrease in the physiologic dead space, an increase in limb blood flow, an increase in reactive hyperemia of the peripheral circulation and an increase in limb oxygen consumption. This cardiopulmonary response is paralleled by a decline in the septic state and normalization of other hematologic parameters. These studies suggest an important homeostatic role for fibronectins in organ and microvascular integrity, especially in the septic injured patient. Cell surface fibronectin which participates in cell adhesion may, in part, modulate microvascular integrity, vascular permeability and would repair. In contrast, the more soluble plasma fibronectin or opsonic alpha 2SB glycoprotein may mediate reticuloendothelial clearance of blood-borne particulates to prevent pulmonary and peripheral vascular microembolization and organ injury. Thus, reversal of opsonic deficiency may be an effective modality of therapy in the septic injured patient with organ failure.
An enterotoxin-like protein in Staphylococcus aureus strains from patients with toxic shock syndrome.	An enterotoxin-like protein, tentatively labeled enterotoxin F, was isolated from Staphylococcus aureus strains taken from patients with toxic shock syndrome. Antibodies specific for enterotoxin F were prepared in rabbits. Use of these antibodies showed that 130 (91.5%) of 142 S. aureus strains from patients with toxic shock syndrome produced enterotoxin F. Strains from toxic shock patients in eight other countries were identified as enterotoxin F producers. Only a small number of S. aureus strains from sources other than patients with toxic shock syndrome were found to produce enterotoxin F. Twenty-one of 111 controls had low antibody titers (less than 1:100) to enterotoxin F whereas 86 of 92 toxic shock patients had low acute phase antibody titers (less than 1:100) to enterotoxin F. Eight of 52 patients had serum conversion as shown by an increase in antibody titer to enterotoxin F in sera taken 21 to 60 days after onset of the illness. It may be possible to identify persons susceptible to toxic shock syndrome by measuring their antibody titer to enterotoxin F.
Circulating immune complexes in patients with gram negative septic shock.	In order to explain complement components abnormalities observed during septic shock, circulating immune complexes (C.I.C.) were searched for in sera from 34 patients with gram negative sepsis by two different methods: polyethylene glycol precipitation test based on physical properties of C.I.C. and C1q deviation test based on the property of radiolabelled C1q to react with C.I.C. Serum immunoglobulins (IgG, IgA, IgM) and complement components (C1q, C3, C4) levels were simultaneously determined. Seventeen patients with minimal haemodynamic abnormalities had normal or increased levels (except C4 at 62% of normal) and in eleven cases both tests for C.I.C. were simultaneously positive. Seventeen patients with severe septic shock had a decrease in IgG, IgM C1q, C3 and C4 and none had both tests for C.I.C. simultaneously positive (P less than 10(-4)). The disappearence of C.I.C. in patients with severe septic shock associated with evidence of complement activation suggests their involvement in the pathogenesis of septic shock in man.
Protein antigens from Staphylococcus aureus strains associated with toxic-shock syndrome.	Staphylococcus aureus isolates from patients with toxic-shock syndrome have two antigenic proteins that distinguish these strains from isolates obtained from patients who do not have this syndrome and who are colonized or infected with S. aureus. These proteins may either represent antigenic markers, the toxin (or toxins), or toxic subunits that cause the clinical manifestations of this disease.
A synthetic inhibitor of interleukin-1 beta converting enzyme prevents endotoxin-induced interleukin-1 beta production in vitro and in vivo.	A potent, reversible, tetrapeptide inhibitor of interleukin-1 beta converting enzyme (ICE), L-709,049, has been shown to suppress the in vitro production of mature IL-1 beta. We now report that this inhibitor also effectively suppresses the production of mature IL-1 beta in a murine model of endotoxic shock. Intraperitoneal administration of L-709,049 reduced the elevations of IL-1 beta in the plasma and peritoneal fluid of mice treated with LPS in a dose-related manner (ED50 = 2 +/- 0.9 mg/kg). LPS-induced elevations in IL-1 alpha and IL-6 in these mice were unaffected, indicating that the inhibitor specifically affected IL-1 beta production. Immunoblot analysis of plasma and peritoneal fluid indicated that L-709,049 suppressed the formation of mature IL-1 beta production in vivo. When mouse blood was incubated in vitro with LPS, IL-1 beta was released into the plasma. This assay was used to determine ex vivo the activity of an ICE inhibitor in the blood following its administration to mice. Blood obtained 15 minutes after ip administration of 10 mg/kg of L-709,049 to mice produced 80% less IL-1 beta than control blood, and IL-1 beta production returned to control levels in blood obtained 30 minutes after injection of this inhibitor. In addition, the capacity of the blood plasma obtained from these animals to prevent the cleavage of a synthetic substrate by ICE disappeared within 1 h of ip administration of 50 mg/kg of inhibitor.
Fulminant meningococcal septic shock in a boy with combined inherited properdin and protein C deficiency.	A 7-year-old patient with fulminant septic shock due to Neisseria meningitidis of the uncommon serogroup Y developed extensive gangrene of the limbs. Multiple amputations were necessary and a pulmonary embolism occurred within 2 days post-operatively. Complement and haemostatic system studies, done after recovery, showed a complete absence of properdin antigen and a low protein C antigen and activity level in plasma. Defective haemolytic activity in gel by the alternative pathway of complement activation could be restored with purified properdin, indicating a properdin deficiency type 1. Protein C antigen level as well as activity were in agreement with a protein C deficiency type I. The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) product of exon five of the protein C gene showed a substitution of 72Gly by Arg. Both deficiencies were traced among relatives of the patient. Serum of the father of the patient's mother was also properdin-deficient. Microsatellite haplotyping of the X-chromosome of the patient and his relatives showed that a distinct haplotype cosegregated with the properdin deficiency (Lodscore 2.25; four informative meioses). The protein C type I deficiency was present in the patient's mother and her mother and cosegregated with the mutation found. So far as is known, this is the first patient described with combined inherited properdin deficiency and protein C deficiency.
Increased susceptibility of fas mutant MRL-lpr/lpr mice to staphylococcal enterotoxin B-induced septic shock.	MRL-lpr/lpr mice are defective in the fas Ag/APO-1 apoptosis gene (CD95). Using the hepatotoxin D-galactosamine (D-GalNH2), we demonstrate that MRL-lpr/lpr mice have an increased susceptibility to staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB)-induced lethal shock, which causes them to exhibit the septic shock-like behaviors of fur ruffling and listlessness, and death occurs within 8 to 18 h. SEB susceptibility is greater in V beta 8.2 TCR transgenic MRL-lpr/lpr mice than in nontransgenic mice. In studies designed to elucidate the molecular pathways of SEB-induced septic shock, we found that C57Bl/6.Ab0/Ab0, MHC class II-deficient "C2D" mice, but not C57Bl/6-(+/+) mice, are nonresponsive to challenge with SEB. C2D mice, backcrossed with the fas mutation resulting in double-knockout C2D;lpr/lpr mice, are more susceptible to challenge with SEB/D-GalNH2. The LD50s for C57Bl/6.C3H-gld/gld "fas ligand-mutant mice" challenged with SEB/D-GalNH2 were comparable to C57Bl/6.MRL-lpr/lpr and MRL-lpr/lpr mice, suggesting that reciprocal mutations in either fas or fas ligand increases susceptibility to bacterial superantigens (SAGs). SEB-induced lethal shock can be reversed by treatment with Abs to V beta 8 TCR, MHC class II Ia+, IL-2, and TNF-alpha, by the immunosuppressant cyclosporin A, or by treatment with carbocyclic nucleoside analogues. These data indicate that SAG-induced septic shock is dependent on interactions with the TCR and MHC class II Ags, and they also suggest a critical role for a functional fas and/or fas ligand in resistance to SAG-induced septic shock.
Identification of MIF as a new pituitary hormone and macrophage cytokine and its role in endotoxic shock.	The protein mediator described originally as macrophage migration inhibitory factor has been "rediscovered" to be both a novel pituitary hormone and a pro-inflammatory, macrophage-derived cytokine. MIF plays a pivotal role in the host response to endotoxic shock and appears to serve as a pituitary "stress" hormone that regulates systemic inflammatory responses.
Interferon gamma receptor deficient mice are resistant to endotoxic shock.	Antibody neutralization studies have established interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) as a critical mediator of endotoxic shock. The advent of IFN-gamma receptor negative (IFN gamma R-/-) mutant mice has enabled a more direct assessment of the role of IFN-gamma in endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide [LPS]-induced shock. We report that IFN gamma R-/- mice have an increased resistance to LPS-induced toxicity, this resistance manifesting well before the synthesis and release of LPS-induced IFN-gamma. LPS-induced lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia, and weight loss seen in wild-type mice were attenuated in IFN gamma R-/- mice. IFN gamma R-/- mice tolerated 100-1,000 times more LPS than the minimum lethal dose for wild-type mice in a D-galactosamine (D-GalN)/LPS model. Serum tumor necrosis factor (TNF) levels were 10-fold reduced in mutant mice given LPS or LPS/D-GalN. Bone marrow and splenic macrophages from IFN gamma R-/- mice had a four- to sixfold decreased LPS-binding capacity which correlated with similar reduction in CD14. Serum from mutant mice reduced macrophage LPS binding by a further 50%, although LPS binding protein was only 10% reduced. The expression of TNF receptor I (p55) and II (p75) was identical between wild-type and mutant mice. Thus, depressed TNF synthesis, diminished expression of CD14, and low plasma LPS-binding capacity, in addition to blocked IFN-gamma signaling in the mutant mice, likely to combine to manifest in the resistant phenotype of IFN gamma R-/- mice to endotoxin.
Causes of organ failure in infection]	Causes of septic multiple organ failure are endotoxin induced mechanisms, exotoxin induced mechanisms and sepsis associated immunosuppression. Pharmacological intervention is limited. Therapy is restricted to aggressive surgical treatment in terms of eradication of the source of infection combined with supportive intensive care medicine. The prevention of systemic infections is mandatory. Approaches to new therapeutical concepts are outlined.
Perioperative TNF alpha and IL-6 concentrations correlate with septic state, organ function, and APACHE II scores in intra-abdominal infection.	To find out if concentrations of tumour necrosis factor a (TNF alpha) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) play a part in the pathophysiology of intra-abdominal infection, and try to identify patients who would benefit from immunotherapy against TNF alpha.
Anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) and infection.	As ANCA are occasionally noted in patients with infectious disorders independently of any vasculitis process, we examined serum from patients with acute infection (n = 22) and septic shock (n = 57). Only two patients with acute infection were ANCA positive as determined by indirect immunofluorescence and western blot analysis. The clinical recovery of both patients was associated with negative immunofluorescence and western blot tests.
The systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS): immunology and potential immunotherapy.	Despite widespread advances in intensive care practices, and more potent and effective antimicrobials, septic shock continues to have a mortality rate of greater than 40%. Although antimicrobials can treat the etiologic organism, they do not alter the host response. It is becoming clear that invading organisms and other insults induce the release of cytokines and secondary mediators by the host. These mediators produce alterations in cellular, metabolic and physiologic functions producing the clinical picture of septic shock. Recent advances in cellular and molecular biology have permitted the identification of some of the mediators involved in this inflammatory cascade. Potential therapies are being developed which block or interrupt their activity. Treatment populations must be meticulously defined if we are to extract useful information concerning the efficacy of these new treatment modalities. In the following, proposed definitions for clinical patterns seen in patients with sepsis, and their inherent problems when applied to pediatrics are discussed. The pathophysiology of sepsis is discussed, and specific therapies designed to interrupt the inflammatory cascade are examined.
Correlation between Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE) III score and immunological parameters in critically ill patients with sepsis.	A relationship between physiological parameters of severe sepsis and immunological function has not been established. In ten severely ill patients with sepsis physiological risk was assessed by the Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE) III score, while one component of immunological function was evaluated using peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) cytokine production after stimulation with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in vitro. Five of the ten patients died. Mean (s.e.m.) APACHE III scores at admission were not significantly different between survivors and non-survivors (82(13) versus 95(13)) but after 72 h they were lower in survivors (51(13) versus 111(15), P < 0.05). Downregulation of cytokine production by PBMC on LPS stimulation was a transient event in survivors. Survivors had a three-fold increase in tumour necrosis factor alpha bioactivity within 72 h, but there was no increase in non-survivors. A similar pattern was demonstrated for interleukin (IL) 1 beta (P < 0.05 between survivors and non-survivors) and IL-6 (P = 0.06) immunoactivity. Physiological as well as immunological parameters in critically ill patients with sepsis independently predicted hospital survival (r2 = 0.2). These data demonstrate a relationship between the pattern of cytokine production in vitro and survival.
Mice deficient in IL-1beta manifest impaired contact hypersensitivity to trinitrochlorobenzone.	Mice rendered deficient in IL-1 beta by gene targeting in embryonic stem cells develop and grow normally in a protected laboratory environment. Endotoxin-stimulated peritoneal macrophages from IL-1beta-deficient mice showed normal synthesis and cellular release of IL-1alpha after treatment with 5 mM ATP demonstrating that IL-1beta is not necessary for expression and release of the IL-1alpha isoform. Mice deficient in IL-1beta showed unaltered sensitivity to endotoxic shock, with or without pretreatment with D-galactosamine. In contrast, IL-1beta-deficient mice showed defective contact hypersensitivity responses to topically applied trinitrochlorobenzene (TNCB). This defect could be overcome either by application of very high doses of sensitizing antigen, or by local intradermal injection of recombinant IL-1beta immediately before antigen application. These data demonstrate an essential role for IL-1beta in contact hypersensitivity and suggest that IL-1beta acts early during the sensitization phase of response. They suggest an important role for IL-1beta in initiation of the host of response at the epidermal barrier.
Monocyte function before and after surgical trauma.	The monocyte/macrophage plays a key role in the network of immune reactions. Dependent on activation, it is able to produce various cytokines which act on other cells of the immune system in the sense of upregulation or downregulation. In addition, it presents antigens by the HLA-DR molecule as an initial trigger of an antigen-specific T-cell response. Monocyte function is affected by surgical disease and further affected by surgical trauma. We found the monocyte to be activated in a subgroup of patients before the operation, related to an increased rate of postoperative septic complications. After the operation, plasma concentrations of IL-6 and IL-10 were increased indicating the activation of an immune response. After surgery HLA-DR expression decreased as well as LPS-stimulated TNFalpha and IL-6 production, the latter indicating a hyporesponsiveness of peripheral blood cells (presumably monocytes) to further stimulation. On the other hand, continuously high plasma concentrations of activation markers like neopterin and IL-6 in the postoperative course were associated with complications and poor outcome. In postoperative septic shock monocytes may be almost areactive towards natural stimuli like bacteria and endotoxin, since IL-6 and TNFalpha production decreased to very low amounts. Adequate pre- and postoperative monocyte function is related to an uneventful postoperative course after major surgical operations. Surgical trauma affects monocyte function rendering it less reactive, which is a potential risk factor for postoperative septic complications.
