Resuscitation with polyethylene glycol-modified human hemoglobin improves microcirculatory blood flow and tissue oxygenation after hemorrhagic shock in awake hamsters.	To determine whether resuscitation with polyethylene glycol-modified human hemoglobin (MalPEG-Hb), an oxygen-carrying blood replacement fluid with 4 g/dL Hb, viscosity of 2.5 cP, colloid osmotic pressure of 49 mm Hg, and p50 of 5.5 mm Hg, improves systemic and microvascular variables after hemorrhage compared with shed blood (SB) and 5% hydroxyethyl starch (HES).
Hypertonic saline improves tissue oxygenation and reduces systemic and pulmonary inflammatory response caused by hemorrhagic shock.	The treatment of hemorrhagic shock (HeS) with large volumes of fluid does not ensure an adequate peripheral perfusion or prevent inflammatory activation despite hemodynamic recovery. The purpose of this study was to compare the effect of hypertonic saline (HTS) and isotonic saline (IS) solutions on oxygenation, perfusion, tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-6 levels, accumulation of polymorphonuclear neutrophils, and pulmonary perivascular edema in the treatment of controlled HeS in rats.
Resuscitation affects microcirculatory polymorphonuclear leukocyte behavior after hemorrhagic shock: role of hypertonic saline and pentoxifylline.	We have previously shown that lung injury following fluid resuscitation either with hypertonic saline (HS) or lactated Ringer's (LR) plus pentoxifylline (PTX) attenuated acute lung injury when compared with LR resuscitation. The objective of the present study is to determine whether our previous observations are accompanied by changes in polymorphonu-clear leukocyte (PMN) behavior. To study this, PMN-endothelial cell interactions, microcirculatory blood flow, lung histology, lung PMN infiltration (MPO, Myeloperoxidase), and lung intra-cellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) expression were assessed in a controlled hemorrhagic shock model followed by LR, HS, and LR+PTX resuscitation in rodents. Rats (240-300 g) were bled to a mean arterial pressure (MAP) of 35 mm Hg for 1 hr and then randomized into three groups: HS (7.5% NaCl, 4 ml/kg); LR (3x shed blood); and LR+PTX (25 mg/kg). Additionally, total shed blood was reinfused. A sham group underwent no shock and no treatment. The internal spermatic fascia was exteriorized and the microcirculation was observed by closed-circuit TV coupled to a microscope, 2 and 6 hrs after treatment. The number of leukocytes sticking to the venular endothelium was determined 2 hrs after fluid resuscitation. Microcirculatory blood flow was measured by an optical Doppler velocimeter. Lung histology and lung MPO immunostaining were assessed at 6 hrs, and lung ICAM-1 expression was determined by immunostaining at 2 hrs following fluid resuscitation. Two hours after treatment, HS (1.4 +/- 0.4), LR+PTX (1.7 +/- 0.3), and sham (0.4 +/- 0.2) groups presented significant reductions in leukocyte adherence (cells/100 microm venule length), compared with the LR group (4.0 +/- 0.9, P < 0.05). No differences were observed 6 hrs after treatment on leukocyte adherence and microcirculatory blood flow. ICAM-1 expression was significantly higher in LR-treated animals compared with the HS, LR+PTX, and sham groups (P < 0.01). PMN infiltration and overall lung injury were significantly attenuated by HS and LR+PTX. These results support earlier studies that indicated the potential application of HS and PTX in shock therapy and the increase in PMN-endothelial cell interaction and lung injury after LR resuscitation.
Systemic neutrophil priming by lipid mediators in post-shock mesenteric lymph exists across species.	Post-hemorrhagic shock mesenteric lymph (PHSML) has been linked with neutrophil (PMN) priming, endothelial cell (EC) activation, and acute lung injury (ALI) in rodent models. We have previously identified the lipid fraction of PHSML as containing the causative agent(s). Due to the lesson learned from the rodent gut bacterial translocation experience, we sought to confirm this phenomenon using a large animal model; hypothesizing that lymph collected from the porcine gut following ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) would cause PMN priming.
Attenuation of shock-induced acute lung injury by sphingosine kinase inhibition.	Prolonged elevations of cytosolic calcium concentrations ([Ca2+]i) are required for optimal neutrophil (PMN) activation responses to G-Protein coupled chemoattractants. We recently showed that the coupling of endosomal Ca2+ store depletion to more prolonged entry of external Ca2+ depends on cellular conversion of sphingosine to sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) by sphingosine kinase (SK). We therefore hypothesized that inhibition of SK might inhibit PMN activation and thus ameliorate lung injury after trauma and hemorrhagic shock (T/HS).
Hemorrhagic shock induces endothelial cell apoptosis, which is mediated by factors contained in mesenteric lymph.	Trauma-hemorrhagic shock is one of the leading causes of acute respiratory distress syndrome. This syndrome is associated with disruption of the alveolar barrier consisting of both epithelial and endothelial cells, which leads to a major increase in epithelial and microvascular permeability in the lungs. Although alveolar epithelial cell apoptosis has been documented as a contributing factor to this increase in permeability, it is unclear whether endothelial cell apoptosis occurs following trauma-hemorrhagic shock and, if so, the source of factors leading to this process.
Study on changes of blood coagulation factors in rats with hemorrhagic shock]	The study was aimed to observe the changes of blood coagulation factors in the SD rats suffered from hemorrhagic shock, and to investigate the mechanism of coagulation cascade reaction in the course of shock. The model of hemorrhagic shock was established. 40 SD rats were randomized into eight groups: pre-shock, and 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 12 and 24 hours after shock, and the levels of plasma FVIII, vWF, TF, D-dimer, FIB, APTT and PT were detected respectively. The result showed that APTT and PT were gradually prolonged, which were significant within 4-6 hour after shock (P < 0.05). APTT and PT were 59.7 seconds and 30.2 seconds respectively. The level of plasma D-dimer markedly increased, and peaked at 8 hour after shock. The level of fibrinogen, TF, vWF and FVIIIa increased in the initial stage of shock. With the development of shock, fibrinogen markedly reduced from 2nd hour (P < 0.05) and dropped to the minimum at 7 hours after shock. Plasma TF, vWF, FVIII significantly decreased after 6 hours and 8 hours (P < 0.001). The ratios of the consumed coagulation factors: FVIII of (86.1 +/- 1.8)%, fibrinogen of (89.6 +/- 0.6)%, vWF (55 +/- 1.4)%, TF (62 +/- 2.5)%. Thus, coagulation factor I (fibrinogen) and FVIII were preferentially consumed. The extrinsic coagulation pathway was dominantly activated, whereas the intrinsic coagulation pathway played a less important role. Fibrinogen and D-dimer might be valuable for the prognosis of patients suffered from shock. It is concluded that hemorrhagic shock trigger the coagulation cascade reaction, and the coagulation factors are greatly consumed. Unbalance of coagulation system plays an important role in the progress of shock.
Effect of experimental hemorrhagic shock on hepatic drug elimination.	Exogenous substrates were used to measure hepatic function for the purposes of determining organ dysfunction and to evaluate the effect of experimental hemorrhagic shock with resuscitation on hepatic drug elimination.
Coagulation patterns following haemoglobin-based oxygen carrier resuscitation in severe uncontrolled haemorrhagic shock in swine.	Massive blood loss due to penetrating trauma and internal organ damage can cause severe haemorrhagic shock (HS), leading to a severely compromised haemostatic balance. This study evaluated the effect of bovine polymerized haemoglobin (Hb) (Hb-based oxygen carrier, HBOC) resuscitation on haemostasis in a swine model of uncontrolled HS. Following liver injury/HS, swine received HBOC (n= 8), Hextend (HEX) (n= 8) or no resuscitation (NON) (n= 8). Fluids were infused to increase mean arterial pressure above 60 mmHg and to reduce heart rate to baseline. At 4 h, the animals were eligible for blood transfusions. Prothrombin time (PT), activated partial thromboplastin time, fibrinogen, thromboelastography (TEG) and platelet function analyser closure time (PFA-CT) were compared by using mixed statistical model. At 4 h, blood loss (% estimated blood volume) was comparable for HBOC (65.5 +/- 18.5%) and HEX (80.8 +/- 14.4%) and less for NON (58.7 +/- 10.1%; P < 0.05). Resuscitation-induced dilutional coagulopathy was observed with HBOC and HEX, as indicated by reduced haematocrit, platelets and fibrinogen (P < 0.05). At 4 h, PT was higher in HEX than in HBOC groups (P < 0.01). In the early hospital phase, a trend to increased TEG reaction time and PFA-CT indicates that dilutional effects persist in HBOC and HEX groups. PFA-CT returned to baseline later with HBOC than with HEX (48 vs. 24 h) following blood transfusion. At 4 h, all surviving HEX animals (n= 3) required transfusion, in contrast to no HBOC (n= 7) or NON (n= 1) animals. In this severe uncontrolled HS model, successful resuscitation with HBOC produced haemodilutional coagulopathy less than or similar to that produced by resuscitation with HEX.
Delayed fluid resuscitation in hemorrhagic shock induces proinflammatory cytokine response.	This study is designed to determine the effects of delayed fluid resuscitation on the hemodynamic changes and cytokine responses in a rat model of hemorrhagic shock.
Resuscitation fluids for the treatment of hemorrhagic shock in dogs: effects on myocardial blood flow and oxygen transport.	The efficacy of using colloids vs. crystalloids in the treatment of hemorrhagic shock remains controversial. An important aspect in the treatment of hemorrhagic shock is the reestablishment of normal myocardial blood flow after fluid resuscitation. This study, therefore, was designed to investigate the effect of resuscitation with different plasma substitutes on myocardial blood flow and oxygen transport after acute hemorrhage in dogs. Forty-three dogs were anesthetized and bled into a heparinized Wiggers' reservoir to a mean arterial pressure of 35 mm Hg. The animals were maintained at this level of hypotension for 90 mins, whereupon the animals were infused with one of five randomly selected fluids: a) succinylated gelatin (Gelofusine); b) urea-linked gelatin (Haemaccel); c) 6% hetastarch (Hespan); d) lactated Ringer's solution; or e) shed blood. Myocardial blood flow was measured using the radiolabeled microsphere technique.
Hypertonic fluid resuscitation improves cerebral oxygen delivery and reduces intracranial pressure after hemorrhagic shock.	Prospective clinical studies have shown that hypotension from hemorrhage contributes to increased morbidity and mortality in patients with traumatic brain injury. It is implied that poorer outcome is the result of secondary brain injury from impaired cerebral oxygen delivery (cO2del). We studied the early and late effects of hypertonic sodium lactate (HSL: 500 mOsm/L) resuscitation on mean arterial pressure (MAP), cardiac output (CO), systemic oxygen delivery (sO2del), cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP), intracranial pressure (ICP), cO2del, cerebral blood flow (CBF), serum osmolality, and cortical water content (CWC) in a porcine model of hemorrhagic shock. Swine were randomized to receive a bolus (4 mL/kg) of either lactated Ringer's solution (LR: 274 mOsm/L) or HSL after shock, followed by either LR or HSL to return MAP to baseline levels. Shed blood was returned 1 hour after resuscitation, and all animals were studied for 24 hours. Control animals were instrumented only. The HSL resuscitation significantly increased cO2del and CBF for 24 hours postresuscitation when compared with LR. The ICP in the HSL-treated animals was significantly lower throughout the postresuscitation phase when compared with the LR-treated animals (p less than 0.05). The CWC was significantly lower in the HSL-treated animals (p less than 0.05). We attribute these effects to hypertonic dehydration of both the brain parenchyma and the cerebrovascular endothelium. These data suggest that by decreasing ICP and improving cO2del after shock, HSL could decrease secondary brain injury when brain injury and shock occur together.
Effects of different means of fluid resuscitation on the activity of nuclear factor-KappaB in peripheral blood mononuclear cells in rats with hemorrhagic shock]	To observe the effects of different means of fluid resuscitation on the activity of nuclear factor-KappaB (NF-KappaB) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) in rats with hemorrhagic shock.
Experimental therapeutic study for activated coagulation by hemorrhagic shock in rats]	The study was aimed to investigate the changes of blood coagulation factors during hemorrhagic shock in rats and the effects of various of resuscitation fluids on expression of blood coagulation factors in rats with hemorrhagic shock and to clarify its possible mechanism. 50 SD rats were randomly divided into 5 groups: control, sham operation, shock, resuscitation 1 (infusion with Ringer's lactate) and resuscitation 2 (infusion with 6% VOLUVEN), 10 rats per group. The rats in resuscitation 1 and resuscitation 2 groups were subjected to hemorrhagic shock, after hemorrhage shock for 1 hour resuscitation was performed with Ringer's lactate and 6% VOLUVEN. After resuscitation for 2 hours the changes of t-PA, PAI-1, TF were measured. At the same time, the rats in shock and the sham operation groups were blooded out so as to test. The results showed that the levels of plasma t-PA, t-PA/PAI, TF in the shock and resuscitation 1 groups were significantly higher than that in control and sham operation groups (P<0.01). The levels of plasma t-PA, t-PA/PAI in resuscitation 1 group were higher than that in shock group (P<0.01), the levels of plasma t-PA, t-PA/PAI and TF in the resuscitation 2 group were significantly lower than that in shock and resuscitation 1 groups (P<0.01). It is concluded that hemorrhagic shock may trigger the coagulation cascade reaction, results in hyperfunctioning of fiberinolysis and activation of platelets and coagulation system, and so the coagulation factor is greatly consumed. Unbalance of coagulation system plays an important role in the progress of shock. Efficacy of resuscitation with 6% VOLUVEN plus Ringer's lactate may be better than Ringer's lactate alone in regulating blood coagulation after hemorrhagic shock in rats.
Splanchnic oxygen consumption in septic and hemorrhagic shock.	Oxygen consumption (VO2) is dependent on oxygen delivery (DO2) in septic shock. Local hypoxia with later secondary organ failure may develop, however, despite an often hyperdynamic circulation. The splanchnic organs seem to be of vital importance in this context. In experiments performed in pigs we compared total body VO2 and DO2 with oxygen consumption and delivery in the gastrointestinal organs and the liver in two different shock states: (1) septic shock induced by peritonitis (n = 6) and (2) hemorrhagic shock (n = 6). Another group of six animals not in shock served as controls. Total, gastrointestinal, and liver DO2 decreased in a similar pattern in both septic and hemorrhagic shock. Gastrointestinal and liver VO2 increased in sepsis, whereas it was unchanged in hemorrhage. In the later phase of sepsis, liver VO2, but not gastrointestinal VO2, again decreased, because liver oxygen extraction was almost total and liver DO2 decreased further. The development of flow-dependent liver hypoxia was reflected in a decrease in liver lactate turnover (increased liver lactate release) during late sepsis. Early hypoxia in the splanchnic region is suggested as a plausible mechanism behind the development of secondary organ failure, especially in sepsis.
Cyclic AMP and metabolic substrates in hemorrhagic shock of the rat.	Hemorrhagic shock was induced in rats by bleeding to 35 mmHg for a period of 4 h. Plasma glucose increased rapidly following the onset of bleeding and reached twice the control value after 30 min. After 2 h hypotension the liver content of glycogen was depleted and subsequently the rats became hypoglycemic. The rise in plasma glucose was accompanied by a rise in plasma cyclic AMP, which was 10-fold after 1 h, but returned towards control values at the end of the hypotensive period. There were no corresponding changes in the cyclic AMP contents of liver, heart or adipose tissue. Blood lactate was increased 10-fold and the lactate/pyruvate ratio was more than doubled, suggesting an increased anaerobic metabolism. Plasma FFA levels fell significantly, while plasma glycerol was unchanged during the hypotensive period. In this hemorrhagic shock model there is an initial phase of glucose mobilization from the liver, which is accompanied by elevated plasma cyclic AMP. This phase is followed by a period of depressed levels of glucose as well as FFA and thus a lack of metabolizable substrates in plasma.
Identification of a novel potential biomarker in a model of hemorrhagic shock and valproic acid treatment.	The initial management of a poly-trauma patient requires evaluation for potential hemorrhage and ongoing monitoring to assess the efficacy of treatment and avoid complications related to massive blood loss. Certain serum protein levels may be altered in response to hemorrhagic shock, and may serve as useful biomarkers to guide diagnosis, prognosis, and therapeutics in traumatic hemorrhagic shock (HS). Treatment with valproic acid (VPA) has been shown to up-regulate various survival pathways and improve outcome. Here we determine whether these changes would result in altered serum biomarkers.
Blockade of prostaglandin production increases cachectin synthesis and prevents depression of macrophage functions after hemorrhagic shock.	Although hemorrhage severely depresses macrophage functions, it is not known whether the increased TNF-alpha or PGE2 production is responsible for it. To study this C3H/HeN mice were bled to mean blood pressure of 35 mmHg for 60 minutes, resuscitated, and treated with either ibuprofen (1.0 mg/kg body weight) or vehicle (saline). Hemorrhage increased plasma prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) levels by 151.7% +/- 40.0% (p less than 0.05) and significantly decreased peritoneal macrophage (pM phi) antigen presentation (AP) by 60.5% +/- 7.3%, Ia expression by 52.3% +/- 7.6%, and interleukin-1 (IL-1) synthesis by 60.5% +/- 12.3% compared to shams. However ibuprofen treatment reduced PGE2 plasma levels by 61.3% +/- 12.1% and significantly increased AP (+237.0% +/- 95.3%), Ia expression (+72.8% +/- 27.5%), IL-1 synthesis (+235.7% +/- 134.7%), and cachectin synthesis (+485.8% +/- 209.0%) compared to vehicle-treated animals. These results indicate that prostaglandins but not cachectin are involved in the suppression of pM phi functions following hemorrhage because blockade of prostaglandin synthesis improved depressed macrophage functions despite enhanced cachectin synthesis.
A comparison of hypertonic to isotonic fluid in the resuscitation of brain injury and hemorrhagic shock.	We studied the early and late effects of hypertonic resuscitation (HR) on the injured brain using a porcine model of hemorrhagic shock and focal cryogenic brain injury. After shock, swine were randomly assigned to receive a bolus (4 cc/kg) of either Ringers lactate (RL) or 7.5% hypertonic saline in 6% Dextran 70, followed by either RL or hypertonic sodium lactate to restore mean arterial pressure to baseline. All animals were studied for 24 hr after the start of resuscitation. Bolus HR improved cerebral blood flow (CBF) with a lower intracranial pressure (ICP) than RL. Continued hypertonic resuscitation prolonged the period of improved CBF and low ICP. At 24 hr CBF had deteriorated in the region of injury in all study groups and in the uninjured hemisphere in swine receiving RL. These data suggest that rapid resuscitation without increasing ICP for up to 6 hr as seen with hypertonic fluid could conceivably allow adequate time for surgical evacuation of mass lesions and effectively prevent secondary brain injury. This work underscores the importance of prolonged periods of study when evaluating brain resuscitation from traumatic shock.
Assessment of efficacy of hypertonic saline - hydroxyethylstarch in haemorrhagic shock]	Assessment of haemodynamic, respiratory and renal effects of hypertonic saline-hydroxyethyl starch (HyperHES) in critically ill-patients with hemorrhagic shock.
Effects of sodium o-iodobenzoate on acid-base parameters and survival in dogs with hemorrhagic shock.	Sodium o-iodobenzoate (OISB) produces an increase in P50 (PO2 at 50% of oxyhemoglobin saturation) and survival when infused at the time of initiation of prolonged hemorrhagic shock in dogs. Acid-base parameters improved during treatment, and plasma lactic acid concentrations showed smaller rises than in nontreated control animals. Erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) rose in prolonged hemorrhagic shock in the control group and conversely decreased in OISB-treated dogs. OISB did not require red cell integrity, since its effects were still more marked in hemolyzed blood. The therapeutic benefit of OISB, appears to be related to a direct effect of the agent on the hemoglobin molecule.
The effects of 6% hydroxyethyl starch-hypertonic saline in resuscitation of dogs with hemorrhagic shock.	Hemodynamic and global oxygen transport variables have failed to reflect splanchnic hypoperfusion, resulting in a failure to recognize inadequately treated hemorrhagic shock. Volemic expansion after fluid resuscitation is essential to improve global and regional oxygen in hemorrhagic shock. We hypothesized that, in contrast to conventional plasma expanders, the smaller volemic expansion from 7.5 NaCl/6% hydroxyethyl starch (HHES) solution administration in hemorrhagic shock may provide lesser systemic oxygen delivery and gastric perfusion. We used hemorrhaged dogs to compare intravascular volume expansion and the early systemic oxygenation and gastric perfusion effects of fixed fluid bolus administration, which are usually used in clinical situations with severe hemorrhage, of HHES, lactated Ringer (LR), and 6% hydroxyethyl starch (HES) solutions.
C-peptide ameliorates kidney injury following hemorrhagic shock.	Reperfusion injury following hemorrhagic shock is accompanied by the development of a systemic inflammatory state that may lead to organ failure. Insulin connecting peptide (C-peptide) has been shown to exert anti-inflammatory effects in sepsis and myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury and to ameliorate renal dysfunction in diabetic animals. Hence, we investigated the effect of C-peptide on kidney injury after hemorrhagic shock. We hypothesized that C-peptide would exert renoprotective effects by blunting inflammation. Hemorrhagic shock was induced in male rats (3-4 months old) by withdrawing blood from the femoral artery to a mean arterial pressure of 50 mmHg. Animals were kept in shock for 3 h, at which time they were rapidly resuscitated by returning their shed blood. At the time of resuscitation and every hour thereafter, one group of animals received C-peptide (280 nmol/kg), whereas another group received vehicle. Hemorrhagic shock resulted in significant rise in plasma levels of creatinine and elevated kidney neutrophil infiltration as evaluated by myeloperoxidase activity in vehicle-treated rats in comparison with sham rats, thus suggesting kidney injury. Treatment with C-peptide significantly attenuated the rise in creatinine and kidney myeloperoxidase activity when compared with vehicle group. At a molecular level, these effects of C-peptide were associated with reduced expression of the c-Fos subunit and reduced activation of the proinflammatory kinases, extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK 1/2), and c-Jun N-terminal kinase and subsequently reduced DNA binding of activator protein 1 in the kidney. Thus, our data suggest that C-peptide may exert renoprotective effects after hemorrhagic shock by modulating activator protein 1 signaling.
The use of dabigatran in elderly patients.	Recent approval by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of dabigatran etexilate, an oral direct thrombin inhibitor, for the prevention of stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation will likely extend its administration in elderly patients. The risk of major overdosage of dabigatran etexilate in this population is, however, much increased owing to frequent renal function impairment, low body weight, drug interactions that cannot be detected with a routine coagulation test, and no antagonist available. We report herein 2 clinical cases, including 1 fatal case, illustrating our concern regarding the risk of bleeding events in elderly patients.
Effects of C1 inhibitor on tissue damage in a porcine model of controlled hemorrhage.	Activation of the complement system has been associated with tissue injury after hemorrhage and resuscitation in animals. We investigated whether administration of recombinant human C1-esterase inhibitor (rhC1-INH), a regulator of complement and contact activation systems, reduces tissue damage and cytokine release and improves metabolic acidosis in a porcine model of hemorrhagic shock. Male Yorkshire swine were assigned to experimental groups and subjected to controlled, isobaric hemorrhage to a target mean arterial pressure of 35 mmHg. Hypotension was maintained for 20 min followed by a bolus intravenous injection of rhC1-INH or vehicle; animals were then observed for 3 h. Blood chemistry and physiologic parameters were recorded. Lung and small intestine tissue samples were subjected to histopathologic evaluation and immunohistochemistry to determine the extent of injury and deposition of complement proteins. Cytokine levels and quantitative assessment of renal and hepatic function were measured via enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and chemistry analyzer, respectively. Pharmacokinetics of rhC1-INH revealed dose proportionality for maximum concentration, half-life, and the time span in which the functional C1-INH level was greater than 1 IU/mL. Recombinant human C1-INH significantly reduced renal, intestinal, and lung tissue damage in a dose-dependent manner (100 and 250 IU/kg). In addition, rhC1-INH (250 IU/kg) markedly improved hemorrhage-induced metabolic acidosis and circulating tumor necrosis factor α. The tissue-protective effects of rhC1-INH appear to be related to its ability to reduce tissue complement activation and deposition. Recombinant human C1-INH decreased tissue complement activation and deposition in hemorrhaged animals, improved metabolic acidosis, reduced circulating tumor necrosis factor α, and attenuated tissue damage in this model. The observed beneficial effects of rhC1-INH treatment on tissue injury 20 min into severe hypotension present an attractive model of low-volume resuscitation, particularly in situations with a restrictive medical logistical footprint.
The effects of mesenteric lymph drainage on erythrocyte rheology in rats with hemorrhagic shock]	To observe the effects of mesenteric lymph drainage on erythrocyte rheology and blood viscosity in hemorrhagic shock rats.
Characterization of acute coagulopathy and sexual dimorphism after injury: females and coagulopathy just do not mix.	Acute traumatic coagulopathy (ATC) predicts poor outcome after injury. Females have been demonstrated to be hypercoagulable early in the posttrauma period. It remains unclear whether presence of ATC alters sex-based outcomes after injury. This study's objective was to characterize the sex dimorphism after severe injury in the presence and absence of ATC.
Evaluation of resuscitation fluids on endothelial glycocalyx, venular blood flow, and coagulation function after hemorrhagic shock in rats.	Endothelial glycocalyx (EG) plays an essential role in endothelium integrity and may be compromised by hemorrhagic shock. The effects of currently available resuscitation fluids such as Hextend (HEX) or lactated Ringer's solution (LR) on vascular function and coagulation are not well understood. The aim of the present study was to compare the effects of fresh frozen plasma (FFP) with HEX or LR in their ability to repair EG structure, promote volume expansion, increase blood flow, and prevent coagulopathy.
Small-volume infusion of 7.5% NaCl in 6% Dextran 70 for the treatment of severe hemorrhagic shock in swine.	In the initial treatment of the hypovolemic trauma patient, commonly used crystalloids have little clinical benefit in the small volumes generally infused during transport. We evaluated the efficacy of a small-volume infusion of 7.5% NaCl in 6% Dextran 70 as a treatment modality for an otherwise lethal hemorrhage in swine. Sixty chronically instrumented swine were randomized into one of four treatment groups: 0.9% NaCl (NS, n = 15), 7.5% NaCl (HS, n = 15), 6% Dextran 70 (DEX, n = 16), and 7.5% NaCl in 6% Dextran 70 (HSD, n = 14). Each animal was bled 46 mL/kg in 15 minutes. Five minutes after the completion of hemorrhage, the animals were infused with their respective treatment in a volume (11.5 mL/kg) equal to 25% of the shed blood. Of those animals receiving HSD, 100% survived until euthanized at 96 hours. In comparison, animals infused with NS, HS, and DEX had 96-hour survival values of 13%, 53%, and 69%, respectively. The survival rate of the HSD group was significantly better than that of the NS group (P less than .001) and the HS group (P less than .01). The infusion of HSD increased mean arterial pressure, PCO2, and plasma bicarbonate to a significantly greater extent than NS alone (P less than .05). These results demonstrate that a small-volume infusion of the hypertonic sodium chloride/dextran solution is superior to equal volumes of a standard crystalloid in resuscitating animals from hemorrhagic shock.
Traumatic brain injury causes platelet adenosine diphosphate and arachidonic acid receptor inhibition independent of hemorrhagic shock in humans and rats.	Coagulopathy in traumatic brain injury (CTBI) is a well-established phenomenon, but its mechanism is poorly understood. Various studies implicate protein C activation related to the global insult of hemorrhagic shock or brain tissue factor release with resultant platelet dysfunction and depletion of coagulation factors. We hypothesized that the platelet dysfunction of CTBI is a distinct phenomenon from the coagulopathy following hemorrhagic shock.
Influence of hyperglycemia on survival after hemorrhagic shock.	Terms such as "insulin resistance" and "glucose intolerance" applied to shock-induced hyperglycemia suggest that this state may prejudice survival. However, our data indicate that posthemorrhage hyperglycemia improves short-term survival. Rabbits, either fed until the experiment or fasted for 24 hours, were shocked by rapid removal of 25% of their blood volume (BV) measured by 131IHSA. During the next 60 minutes, blood pressure (BP) was recorded, and the following variables were measured every 10 minutes: plasma volume (PV); arterial and venous plasma osmolality (PO), glucose, lactate, Na, K and hematocrit. Other fasted animals studied similarly received short intravenous pulses of hypertonic xylose after bleeding. The PO of fed animals, who all survived for 60 minutes rose to an extent accounted for by rises in glucose and lactate. A significant PV fluid gain was maintained for 60 minutes. The fasted animals, 42% of whom died before 60 minutes, had a flat glucose curve with a correspondingly small rise in PO. The PV fluid balance, after an initial small gain, became negative. Although a lower blood pressure in fasted rabbits was probably due to lack of PV refill, death resulted from hyperkalemia. Poor tolerance of fasted animals to shock is not attributable only to less glucose for energy metabolism, because when they received xylose, homeostatic features of fed animals were restored. The data suggest that, immediately after hemorrhage, glucose acts as a nonpermeant solute drawing fluid into the circulation. This study also shows that control of the nutritional status of animals used for shock models is important.
Beneficial actions of antagonism of peptide leukotrienes in hemorrhagic shock.	The peptide leukotrienes are biologically active eicosanoids which have recently been implicated as possible mediators of anaphylactic, endotoxic, traumatic, and splanchnic artery occlusion shock. We studied the effects of a novel selective peptide leukotriene antagonist, L-649,923, in a rat model of hemorrhagic shock. Hemorrhaged rats treated with L-649,923 (1 mg/kg/h) maintained post-reinfusion mean arterial blood pressure (MABP) at significantly higher values than rats receiving either 0.9% NaCl or a lower dose (0.2 mg/kg/h) of L-649,923 (final MABP 97 +/- 4 vs 60 +/- 5, p less than 0.01; vs 60 +/- 4 mm Hg, p less than 0.01, respectively). Both doses of L-649,923 attenuated the increase in plasma cathepsin D activity (p less than 0.01). L-649,923, at 1 mg/kg/h, also attenuated the plasma accumulation of free amino-nitrogen compounds (p less than 0.05). Furthermore, the plasma activity of a myocardial depressant factor (MDF) was significantly lower in rats treated with L-649,923 (1 mg/kg/h) than in rats receiving the lower dose of the drug or the vehicle (36 +/- 5 U/ml vs. 61 +/- 4 U/ml, p less than 0.01; and 60 +/- 3 U/ml, p less than 0.01, respectively). Furthermore, L-649,923 does not inhibit platelet aggregation in platelet rich plasma. Our data suggest that peptide leukotrienes are important mediators of hemorrhagic shock and that blockade of leukotriene-induced vasoconstriction may underlie the beneficial effects of L-649,923 in hemorrhagic shock.
Effects of dichloroacetate administration during fatal hemorrhagic shock in immature swine.	During hemorrhagic shock, decreased perfusion and poor tissue oxygenation lead to increased lactate production. Previous animal studies have suggested that sodium dichloroacetate (DCA), an agent that decreases lactate production, can improve hemodynamics and survival when administered after severe hemorrhage. We used an unanesthetized porcine hemorrhagic shock model to assess the effect of DCA on survival time when administered during fatal hemorrhage. Immature female swine weighing 14 to 20 kg were splenectomized and instrumented with chronic indwelling aortic and right atrial catheters one week prior to hemorrhage. On the day of the experiment, the unanesthetized animals' aortic catheter was connected to a roller pump and blood was removed at a rate of 1.0 mL/kg/min until death occurred. Experimental animals (n = 8) received sodium dichloroacetate (25 mg/mL distilled water) 100 mg/kg IV bolus beginning 15 minutes after the start of hemorrhage followed by a 3 mg/kg/min constant IV infusion. Control animals (n = 8) received an equal volume of normal saline. Arterial pressure, heart rate, blood gases, serum lactate, and serum glucose were measured at baseline and every 15 minutes during hemorrhage. There were no significant differences in survival time (controls, 63 +/- 2.8 min; DCA-treated, 60 +/- 3.7 min), lactate levels, or blood pressures between the two groups. These results suggest that DCA does not decrease serum lactate or improve survival time when administered during ongoing severe hemorrhagic shock. Further study should be directed at the effects of DCA as an adjunctive treatment after hemorrhage has been controlled and tissue perfusion restored.
Relocation of nonalbumin proteins after albumin resuscitation.	Prior work showed that albumin (5% A) resuscitation lowered serum globulins and coagulation protein activity levels compared to balanced electrolyte solution (BES) resuscitation. In this experiment, the effect of 1.25% A in BES (A-BES) on serum and lymphatic levels of nonalbumin proteins was studied in 20 splenectomized dogs subjected to reservoir shock and then treated with (a) BES or A-BES, (b) shed blood, and (c) autogenous bank blood. Serum levels of albumin, globulin, and coagulation protein activity were measured preshock, postshock, and daily for 3 days; skin lymph levels were measured on Day 3. Compared to BES, A-BES resuscitation significantly decreased serum globulins and coagulation protein activity of fibrinogen, Factor VIII, and antithrombin III. In contrast, skin lymph globulins and coagulation protein activity levels increased significantly with A-BES compared to BES resuscitation. These data suggest that the serum protein changes seen with albumin-supplemented resuscitation result from extravascular relocation of nonalbumin proteins, possibly, due to an oncotic homeostatic factor.
Lack of efficacy of naloxone in a fixed-volume hemorrhage model.	Animal studies using a reservoir model of hemorrhagic shock have shown the narcotic antagonist naloxone to be of value in reversing the hemodynamic effects of severe hemorrhage. We conducted a study to evaluate the ability of naloxone to limit the deleterious effects of a fixed-volume hemorrhage. Fifteen mongrel dogs were bled 50% of their estimated blood volumes during one hour. This was followed by a one-hour stabilization period; reinfusion during a 30-minute period; and finally, an additional one-hour monitoring period. Eight dogs received 2 mg/kg IV naloxone 30 minutes prior to hemorrhage and 2 mg/kg/hr for the duration of the study. Seven control dogs received an equivalent volume of saline without naloxone. Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, central venous pressure, cardiac output, heart rate, blood pressure, arterial and mixed venous blood gases, and serum lactate were measured at 19 intervals throughout the study period. Mean arterial pressure, cardiac index, and systemic vascular resistance were calculated for each sampling period. With the exception of serum lactates, which were higher in the naloxone group, there were no significant differences between the groups in the mean values calculated for each sampling interval (P less than .05, two-tailed independent t test). Furthermore, the changes in hemodynamic parameters observed during the hemorrhage, stabilization, reinfusion, and monitoring periods were not significantly different. We conclude that in this fixed-volume hemorrhage model, naloxone does not prevent or reverse hemodynamic deterioration.
The lung in hemorrhagic shock. IV. The role of neutrophilic polymorphonuclear leukocytes.	The time sequence of changes in total and differential white blood cell counts in dogs subjected to hemorrhagic shock are described and are correlated with alterations in the ultrastructure of intravascular neutrophilic polymorphonuclear leukocytes in the lungs of the same dogs. Total circulating white blood cells fall to 20% of control values and neutrophils fall to 10% of control values in hemorrhagic shock; these values do not return to control levels after reinfusion of shed blood. Intravascular neutrophils in the lung are increased in number after hemorrhagic shock and exhibit alterations in ultrastructure which include loss of density in the cell sap, loss of density in granules and unusual apposition between the plasma membranes of netrophils and adjacent endothelial cells. The results are interpreted as suggesting that circulating neutrophils become "sticky" in hemorrhagic shock; that the lung exerts a sieving effect on these cells; that obstruction of alveolar capillaries by these cells may account for certain abnormalities in the alveolar microcirculation in shock; and that these results may explain the observation that the isolated lung is protected from the deleterious effects of hemorrhagic shock.
The effect of fluid infusions upon serum protein concentrations during hemorrhagic shock.	Of 24 dogs subjected to hemorrhagic shock, 12 resuscitated with intravenous infusions containing 2.5 per cent human serum albumin maintained significantly higher, p less than 0.05, serum albumin levels than did 12 others treated with Ringer's lactate solution, with or without 50 per cent dog plasma. These differences persisted for as long as six weeks after hemorrhage. Dogs resuscitated with Ringer's lactate solution and 50 per cent dog plasma had significantly higher serum globulin levels than did the dogs receiving 2.5 per cent albumin containing infusion during the first three days after hemorrhage. The simultaneous addition of 5 per cent glucose, potassium chloride and hydrocortisone sodium succinate to the infusion of dogs receiving 2.5 per cent albumin in Ringer's lactate solution did not provide significant alterations in the serum concentration of protein and protein fractions when compared with those of dogs receiving only 2.5 per cent albumin in Ringer's lactate solution. These findings corroborate the suggestion of a capillary leak of serum albumin into the interstitial space during hemorrhagic shock that persists for at least one week after hemorrhage. The administration of albumin containing solutions during the initial stages of hemorrhagic shock counteracts this albumin loss.
Human endothelial cell proliferation inhibiting activity in the sera of patients suffering from 'shock' or 'sepsis'.	The response of DNA-synthesis of human endothelial cells to sera derived from twenty-five patients suffering from 'sepsis' or 'shock' was measured by autoradiographic methods. In eight cases a constant decrease in proliferative response was found compared to that of sera from healthy donors. These proliferation values were shown to lie below the '60%-of-control-line'. The difference between the means of control and of corresponding 'low-response' values was significant (P less than 0.05). In three cases a diminished response was caused only by some of several serum samples taken at different times. These results correlated well with the clinical state and outcome of patients but not with any of the over sixty clinical, therapeutic, laboratory and post-mortem parameters of investigation. Evidence is presented for a proliferation inhibiting activity in sera of patients in clinically poor states, and some physico-chemical properties of this 'factor' are described. Lethal injury to the cells or an impairment of cellular migration could not be observed within the observation periods used in this study.
Action of angiotensin II on renal blood flow and function during hemorrhagic shock.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate during hemorrhagic hypotension and shock the effect of angiotensin II on renal blood flow, glomerular filtration rate, and sodium and potassium excretions, and to determine its role in the development of irreversible hemorrhagic shock. Anesthetized dogs were subjected to a hemorrhagic shock protocol. Angiotensin II was infused at 100 ng/kg/min i.v. from 50 mm Hg initial hemorrhage until the experiment was terminated. The survival time from 50 mm Hg initial hemorrhage to reinfusion was increased significantly from 2.7 +/- 0.5 h to 4.7 +/- 0.8 h by exogenous angiotensin II. However, once shock had developed, the survival time from reinfusion to 50 mm Hg normovolemic hemorrhagic shock was not affected by exogenous angiotensin II (4.4 +/- 1.4 to 3.6 +/- 0.7 h.) During hemorrhagic shock, exogenous angiotensin II significantly increased sodium excretion and total renal blood flow. Glomerular filtration rate, potassium excretion, and arterial sodium and potassium concentrations were not affected. These data indicate that angiotensin II prolonged the development of irreversible hemorrhagic shock and selectively increased sodium excretion and total renal blood flow.
Intra-extracellular ion changes in heart and skeletal muscle in experimental hemorrhagic shock]	An experimental shock model with rabbits and dogs was used (bleeding to an constant systemic pressure of 5.3-6.6 kPa) to investigate quality and time dependency of intra-extracellular gradients of Na+, K+ and Ca++ in skeletal and heart muscle. We found the ion gradient changes to be earlier and more pronounces in skeletal than in heart muscle, where strongest changes appear within the heart ears and significant smaller ones within ventricular and papillar muscles. Unexpectedly there was in heart and skeletal muscle the same two phasic ionic course, and a close correlation between ion gradient changes and shock duration in skeletal muscle. There is a good agreement between our results and the common clinical observations of ventricular arrhythmia caused by acute hypotonic circulatory situation and therefore the early restoration of the disturbed transcapillary exchange in the peripheral circulation is demanded.
Influence of fibrinogen levels in dogs on mortality from hemorrhagic and traumatic shock.	1) Fibrinogen levels appear related to the outcome of hemorrhagic shock in dogs. 2) Fibrinogen levels can vary with different animals based on location, disease, stress, nutrition, or other factors. 3) Any experiments in hemorrhagic shock (or anything else) should utilize simultaneous and paired controls of animals from the same source or they may be subject to major error.
A humoral factor in the plasma of dogs with hemorrhagic hypotension causing histopathologic changes when infused into normals.	The presence of circulating factors in the plasma of shocked dogs which would be capable of causing lung lesions when infused into normotensive dogs was demonstrated by light and electron microscopy. Light microscopy only identified significant differences in atelectasis, vascular congestion, and interstitial edema in the shock and shock-plasma recipient animals. On electron microscopy, interstitial edema and disruption of collagen bundles were consistently found in shocked dogs and in dogs that had received shocked plasma. There was a consistent increase in pulmonary interstitial sodium in both shock and shock-plasma recipient groups. It is concluded that a plasma factor present in the serum of shocked dogs may be transferred to other dogs and cause histopathologic changes seen in the lungs of shocked animals.
High level of arginine vasopressin and 7.5% NaCl/6% dextran-70 solution: cardiovascular and renal effects.	A marked diuresis has been observed following resuscitation of hypotensive hemorrhaged animals with small volume hypertonic saline/dextran (HSD), 7.5% NaCl/6% dextran-70. We tested the hypothesis that high arginine vasopressin (AVP) levels associated with severe hemorrhage may exacerbate the diuretic effect of HSD infusion in euvolemic sheep. Following AVP infusion, a significant bradycardia (55% of baseline) and decreased cardiac output (62% of baseline) was observed (p < or = .05). Urine output increased during AVP infusion (25.4 +/- 2.3 ml/20 min) compared to control group (10.5 +/- 1.0 ml/20 min) (p < or = .0001). With HSD volume expansion, urine flow in the AVP group was initially 1.7 times greater than the control group (104.8 +/- 10 ml/20 min vs. 60.2 +/- 15 ml/20 min) (p < or = .05). High serum levels of AVP (600 +/- 33 pg/ml) may contribute to the diuresis seen with HSD resuscitation and possibly contribute to the bradycardia observed with severe hemorrhage.
Effects of isotonic crystalloid resuscitation on fluid compartments in hemorrhaged rats.	Redistribution of fluid after isotonic crystalloid resuscitation from hemorrhage may result not only in interstitial edema but also in cellular edema. We measured the extent to which shock and resuscitation altered fluid compartments in different organs. Nephrectomized, anesthetized rats were randomly divided into a Control group (n = 10) and a Hemorrhage plus Resuscitation group (H/R, n = 10). Rats were subjected to 60 min hemorrhagic hypotension (50 mmHg) followed by a 60 min resuscitation period with .9% NaCl infused as needed to maintain mean arterial pressure at 80% of baseline. A 2 h 51Cr-EDTA distribution space was used to estimate extracellular fluid volume (ECFV) and a 5 min 125I-albumin distribution space was used to measure plasma volume (PV). After euthanasia, total tissue water was measured by wet/dry weight analysis and interstitial fluid volume (ISFV) and cell water were calculated for selected organs. Resuscitation volume was two times the shed blood volume, but resulted in a PV equal to that of the Controls. There were no significant differences in whole animal ECFV or ISFV, although the mean values in the H/R group were greater than that of the Control group. The mean values for total tissue water for each tissue in the H/R group were larger than the respective means of the Control tissues but was significantly greater for only the heart (3639 +/- 56 microL/g vs. 3493 +/- 24 microL/g, mean +/- S.E., p < .05). In all H/R tissues, mean values for ISFV were also larger; this difference was significant for only the liver and small intestines (744 +/- 62 vs. 518 +/- 29 microL/g and 1117 +/- 155 vs. 706 +/- 58 microL/g, respectively). Heart cell water was significantly larger in H/R than Controls (2900 +/- 60 microL/g vs. 2738 +/- 27 microL/g). These data suggest that resuscitation of hemorrhage using isotonic crystalloid normalizes overall PV and ECFV but also causes interstitial expansion in selected gut tissues and cellular edema in the heart.
The behavior of transfused platelets in dengue hemorrhagic fever.	The transfusion of platelet concentrate has been proved as a valuable clinical procedure in the management of bleeding in dengue hemorrhagic fever (DHF). This paper described the behavior of transfused platelets as platelet response and platelet increment in DHF patients with and without shock. Fifteen patients with DHF were studied, aged 2 to 12 years old. All had bleeding manifestation, ie GI, skin, nose or gum. Fresh human platelet concentrate was transfused to 5 non-shock cases and 10 shock cases with different dosages as the low dose (0.15-0.23 U/kg) and high dose (0.28-0.46 U/kg). The cessation of active bleeding was noted by clinical observation or hematocrit determination. The degree of elevation of the circulating platelets tended to vary inversely to the degree of shock and directly to the amounts of platelets infused. The survival of transfused platelets was very short in shock cases, about few hours to one day. This may be due to many factors: platelet plug to injured vessels, immune complex reaction, trapping of platelets to the poor circulation area, rapid utilization and destruction of platelets by injured vessels or virus and slow circulation promoting platelet adhesion.
Changes in the oxygen balance of the body in the acute period of hemorrhagic shock and after resuscitation under the effect of intravascular helium-neon laser irradiation of the blood]	The effect of intravascular laser irradiation of the blood (ILIB) on the oxygen budget of the body and blood acid-base balance in the acute period of hemorrhagic shock and after resuscitation was studied in experiments on dogs. Duration of hypotension was 2 h. Laser therapy was started from the 5th-8th min of hypotension and lasted for 45 min; it was performed with a He-Ne laser (ALOK-1, 1 mWt power at the tip of the light guide, wavelength 633 nm) introduced in the right jugular vein. Exposure to ILIB in the acute period of hemorrhagic shock was conducive to creation of favorable conditions for realization of the compensatory mechanisms aimed at improvement of circulation and gas exchange in the lungs, at provision of delivery of oxygen to tissues and its utilization, and, hence, promoted the survival of animals by triggering the regulatory mechanisms of redistribution of the regional bloodflow, improvement of tissue perfusion, and possibly, of oxyhemoglobin dissociation processes in red cells.
Biological significance of elevated TNF levels: in vivo administration of monoclonal antibody against tnf following haemorrhage shock increases the capacity of macrophages to release TNF while restoring immunoresponsiveness.	Haemorrhagic shock results in a severe depression of the cellular and humoral immunity, thus rendering the host increasingly susceptible to sepsis. To study the effect of elevated TNF release following haemorrhagic shock on depressed macrophage and splenocyte functions, C3H/HeN mice were pretreated intraperitoneally with either anti-murine TNF-Ab or saline. Twenty hrs later, mice were bled to and maintained at a mean BP of 35 mmHg for 60 min followed by adequate fluid resuscitation. Pretreatment with anti-TNF-Ab completely neutralized elevated TNF plasma levels following haemorrhage. This was associated with an increased (P < 0.05) capacity of pMø isolated 24 h after haemorrhagic shock to release TNF, while the ability to secrete IL-6 and PGE2 was reduced. Haemorrhagic shock-induced suppression of pMø antigen presentation capacity and MHC class II antigen expression, as well as depression of splenocyte proliferation and lymphokine production was also attenuated (P < 0.05) by anti-TNF-Ab pretreatment. These data indicate that elevated circulating TNF levels play a pivotal role in the depression of essential macrophage and splenocyte functions following haemorrhagic shock.
The study of platelet count and phagocytic activity in experimental hemorrhagic shock. I. Comparison of platelet count in blood of left and right heart ventricles]	The evaluation of the number of blood platelets in the left and right heart ventricle observed during haemorrhagic shock has been carried out. It has been stated that the number of blood platelets of the left ventricle outnumber that of the right heart ventricle. The difference is more intense with the prolongation of the time of the survival in the state of shock.
Study of platelet count and phagocytic activity in experimental hemorrhagic shock. II. Evaluation of phagocytic activity of platelets]	The platelets phagocytic activity has been measured in rats during experimental haemorrhagic shock determining the per cent of phagocytic platelets and phagocytic index. The authors have the decrease of phagocytic activity of platelets during haemorrhagic shock. Disturbances of phagocytic activity of platelets have been accompanied by changes of their shape and formation platelet aggregates.
Dynamics of blood coagulation disorders in traumatic-hemorrhagic shock]	Blood clotting tests in 55 polytraumatized patients showed that a lapse in the hemostatic potential may already occur at a very early stage of the traumatic-hemorrhagic shock. The extent of these changes which are complex in their pathogenesis, is closely related to the degree of injury. Coagulation-analysis control of the development shows clearly that shock treatment and maintenance of adequate circulation, starting at the earliest possible moment at the scene of the accident, are important for spontaneous recompensation of the hemostatic defect.
Haemorrhagic shock encephalopathy syndrome presenting with myoglobinuria.	An infant with haemorrhagic shock encephalopathy syndrome (HSES) who in addition presented with hyperpyrexia and myoglobinuria is reported. As rhabdomyolysis is a feature of heat stroke and malignant hyperthermia, the association of HSES with myoglobinuria supports the hypothesis that HSES may be a form of hypermetabolic state triggered by hyperthermia.
Liver endothelial cell dysfunction occurs early following hemorrhagic shock and persists despite crystalloid resuscitation.	Although hepatocellular function is depressed early following hemorrhage, it remains unknown whether liver endothelial cell function is also compromised under such conditions. The aim of this study, however, was to determine if liver endothelial cell function is depressed during hemorrhage and persists following crystalloid resuscitation. To study this, rats underwent a 5-cm laparotomy (i.e., trauma induced) and were bled to and maintained at a mean arterial pressure of 40 mm Hg until 40% of maximal bleedout volume was returned in the form of Ringer's lactate. The animals were then resuscitated with 4 times the volume of maximal bleedout volume with Ringer's lactate. Arterial blood was taken before and during hemorrhage and after resuscitation. Plasma hyaluronic acid (HA) levels were determined using a Pharmacia assay kit. To determine whether the elevated HA is due to a decrease in its removal, HA clearance was assessed at 0 and 24 hr after resuscitation by injecting 30 microgram/100 g body wt HA intravenously. The results indicate that plasma HA levels increased significantly at the time of maximal bleedout, which persisted even 24 hr after the completion of resuscitation. Hyaluronic acid clearance decreased significantly at 0 and 24 hr after resuscitation, suggesting that the decreased HA clearance plays a major role in producing the elevated plasma HA levels. Since circulating HA is cleared exclusively by liver endothelial cells, these results, taken together, indicate that liver endothelial cell dysfunction (i.e., the increased plasma HA levels and decreased HA clearance) occurs early during hemorrhage (i.e., approximately 44 min after the onset of the insult) and persists despite resuscitation. Thus, the depressed liver endothelial cell function may directly or indirectly contribute to hepatocellular dysfunction observed under such conditions.
Use of an in vivo oxygen electrode to determine the effect of hemorrhagic shock on liver oxygen tension.	Measurement of arterial and liver tissue oxygen tension (PO2) in animals subjected to hemorrhagic shock demonstrates a significant (p less than 0.001) decrease in tissue PO2 while PaO2 remains essentially unchanged. In fact, marked increase in PaO2 fail to increase tissue PO2 to control levels, demonstrating that the act of increasing FIO2 and/or PaO2 is inadequate treatment of decreased tissue oxygenation in marginal or low flow states. Measurement of tissue PO2 in a variety of clinical situations seems warranted to allow alterations of therapy to improve flow when indicated by inadequate tissue oxygenation. The application of this simple but extremely useful technic should result in improved survival rates in critically ill patients.
Acute metabolic and endocrine effects of induced hypothermia in hemorrhagic shock: an experimental study in the pig.	Hypothermia is considered harmful in trauma patients. In surgery, hypothermia is occasionally used to reduce metabolism and protect the brain. Recent studies in animals have also shown protective effects of hypothermia in hemorrhagic shock. The aim of this study was to evaluate the metabolic and endocrine effects of induced hypothermia in hemorrhagic shock.
Decreases in organ blood flows associated with increases in sublingual PCO2 during hemorrhagic shock.	Earlier studies demonstrated that not only the stomach but also the esophageal wall served as an appropriate site for estimating the severity of circulatory shock by using tonometric methods. We then conceived of the option of sublingual tonometry. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that the changes in sublingual PCO2 serve as indicators of decreases in blood flow to sublingual and visceral tissue. In Sprague-Dawley rats, sublingual PCO2 increased from 50 to 127 Torr and arterial blood lactate increased from 0.9 to 11.2 mmol/l during bleeding. Sublingual blood flow simultaneously decreased to approximately 32% of preshock values. After reinfusion of shed blood, organ blood flows and sublingual PCO2 were promptly restored to near-baseline values. There were corresponding decreases in blood flows in the tongue, stomach, jejunum, colon, and kidneys during hemorrhagic shock. Increases in sublingual PCO2 were highly correlated with decreases in sublingual blood flow (r = 0.80), tongue blood flow (r = 0.81), gastric blood flow (r = 0.74), jejunal blood flow (r = 0.65), colon blood flow (r = 0.80), and renal blood flow (r = 0.75). Unbled control animals demonstrated no significant changes. Therefore, we anticipate that sublingual tonometry will provide a useful, noninvasive alternative for monitoring visceral PCO2.
