Virtue ethics in a pluralistic world.	The practice of pediatric surgery is at the crossroads of 2 specialties, pediatrics and surgery. At that vantage point, many ethical dilemmas can be seen. It is important for the pediatric surgeon to understand the special place of ethics in the care of children and how that care is influenced by society. The purpose of this report is to introduce the perspective of virtue ethics as an avenue to problem solving in ethical dilemmas in pediatric surgery. Virtue ethics relies more on the physician-focused view of character and ideal behavior as opposed to more patient-based rules of action. This ethical theory must be placed on the background of our changing society with an increasing plurality of values. The medical community of pediatric surgery must remain involved in the dialogue concerning these dilemmas in the care of children.
Serum growth factors and growth indices pre- and post-pediatric intestinal transplantation.	Although intestinal transplantation (ITx) has succeeded in liberating children with intestinal failure from total parenteral nutrition (TPN), positive growth has yet to be achieved in the majority of patients. This investigation aims to evaluate levels of serum growth factors as they relate to growth parameters and nutritional outcomes.
Autologous-allotopic ileum mucosa transplantation for small bowel elongation. A morphological study.	Since a standard therapy for short bowel syndrome does not yet exist, every search for new surgical methods would be worthwhile. In previous studies we could show that autologous-allotopic ileum mucosa transplantation is feasible. After a modification of our technique a vascularized colon muscle coat lined completely with transplanted ileum mucosa could be engendered.
Isolated adult intestinal transplantation using portal venous drainage.	There is some evidence that portal venous drainage may offer immunologic and metabolic advantages in small bowel transplantation. Isolated small bowel transplantation was performed in 14 adult patients. In all cases, the donor pancreas was transplanted into another patient. During the donor procedure, the superior mesenteric artery and vein were separated below the division of the inferior pancreaticoduodenal artery and below the veins of the pancreatic head. An arterial interposition graft was used in all cases. One donor mesenteric artery was reconstructed in 6 patients; two arteries in 5 patients; and three arteries in 3 patients. Proximal arteries of the graft were ligated and the upper part of the jejunum resected. In 10 patients, a direct anastomosis was performed in an end-to side fashion between donor superior mesenteric vein (SMV) and recipient inferior mesenteric vein (IMV). In 2 patients, a branch of the superior mesenteric vein was used and 2 patients required a venous interposition graft to confluence using the donor iliac vein. Patency of the venous anastomosis was documented by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) angiography after 6 months. No vascular complications have been observed to date. Portal venous drainage is technically feasible in most cases. An anastomosis to the recipient IMV offers the advantage of being direct despite the short donor vein segment. Furthermore, donor and recipient vessels are well matched for size. Using microsurgical techniques, vascular complications may be avoided.
First case of isolated small bowel transplantation at the university of cologne: rejection-free course under quadruple immunosuppression and endoluminal monitoring with video-capsule.	Intestinal transplantation is the only curative form of treatment for fulminant short bowel syndrome. Results have been hampered by frequent rejection episodes as well as technical and infectious complications. We report the first case of complete small bowel transplantation performed at our institution. A 37-year-old male patient suffered from massive gut infarction due to a superior mesenteric artery embolus from a thrombus in the descending aorta resulting from hereditary protein S and C deficiency. The primary surgery resulted in a duodenocolostomy requiring total parenteral nutrition. The course was further complicated by multiple central line infections and pre-renal kidney failure induced by dehydration. After 17 months, we performed a cadaveric small bowel transplant using systemic venous drainage. The ileum was anastomosed end-to-end to the recipient ascending colon. The proximal jejunum was used to create a jejunostomy, with an end-to-side duodenojejunostomy. Immunosuppression consisted of a single-administration of antithymocyte globulin (ATG), tacrolimus, mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), and methylprednisolone given enterally from day 1. Biopsies of the upper jejunum showed no signs of rejection. The graft was monitored via capsule video endoscopy after 9 weeks and appeared normal. The patient was discharged on day 35, completely on an enteral diet and gaining weight with a good quality of life. Oral valganciclovir was given for the cytomegalovirus prophylaxis infection (donor-positive, recipient-negative constellation), with no clinical or serologic signs of infection. The early course after small bowel transplantation using a quadruple regimen was clinically successful. The use of video-capsules allows for noninvasive visual monitoring of bowel segments that cannot be reached endoscopically.
Management of venous access problems before and after intestinal transplantation: case reports.	Patients suffering irreversible loss of intestinal function require total parenteral nutrition (TPN). During long-term TPN, catheter infections are a common problem and intestinal transplantation (ITx) is indicated when patients experience loss of venous access. We report two patients with short bowel syndrome--one before and one after ITx. The patient listed for ITx had several catheter infections with septic temperatures. Staphylococcus aureus, detected in blood cultures, was treated with vancomycin. Packing of the central venous line (CVL) with vancomycin was not successful; the CVL was changed. Search for an infectious focus identified a septic femoral head destruction that was treated by incision and implantation of a hip endoprothesis. Thereafter, the patient was free from infection. The second patient underwent ITx on January 2, 2003, and is free from TPN. ITx was complicated by temporary acute renal failure and heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) syndrome. After compensation of kidney function, the patient required additional saline solution (1 to 2 L/d) to optimize renal perfusion. A CVL was placed in the external iliac vein (EIV) due to previous loss of venous access. At 2 months after ITx, the CVL was infected and the patient was septic. MR scan revealed only one jugular vein to provide vascular access. Therefore, the CVL was changed from the right to the left EIV. Postoperatively, the patient developed thrombosis of right iliac vein and a wound infection that is probably related to the nearby graft ileostomy. At present, the patient is in good condition with a functioning graft. In conclusion, recurrent CVL infections before ITx might reflect other infectious foci that require intensive diagnostic evaluation. After ITx, CVL infection may cause venous thrombosis. Therefore, a single upper venous access should be preserved for optimal care.
Expanded use of transplantation techniques: abdominal wall transplantation and intestinal autotransplantation.	Surgical principles and techniques derived from organ transplantation surgery can provide novel applications in general surgery. We present an update on our 5-year experience with intestinal autotransplantation and abdominal wall transplantation. Nine patients underwent intestinal or multivisceral transplantation with the addition of 10 abdominal wall grafts to cover the large open areas from previous surgeries. Seven patients underwent near-total abdominal evisceration, ex vivo resection of masses at the base of the mesentery, followed by intestinal autotransplantation; 44% of the abdominal wall graft recipients are alive, but none of the fatalities were related to the graft itself. In two cases the graft had to be removed due to venous thrombosis. Of patients with intestinal autotransplants, 71% are alive with two mortalities due to recurrent metastatic malignancy. In only one case, the intestinal autograft had to be removed because of venous thrombosis. All surviving patients but one are on a regular diet; two are on supplemental enteral feeds. These results show that anastomotic and resection techniques derived from the experience in solid organ transplant can be utilized in complex wound closure, as is the case of abdominal wall transplantation, or resection of large retroperitoneal tumors with intestinal autotransplantation.
Clinical results of intestinal and multivisceral transplantation at the Charité, Berlin. A case series]	Intestinal transplantation (ITx) is the only causal therapy of short bowel syndrome (SBS). Long-term survival after ITx has been improved significantly during the last years. The experience with ITx at the Charite, Campus Virchow Klinikum, are described and discussed.
Small bowel transplantation as a treatment option for intestinal failure in children and adults]	Small bowel transplantation for intestinal failure is no longer an experimental procedure, but an accepted treatment for patients where total parenteral nutrition (TPN) therapy for intestinal failure is unsuccessful. Early referral for screening for small bowel transplantation should be considered in patients with permanent intestinal failure who have occlusion of more than 2 major veins, frequent line-related septic episodes, impairment of liver function or an unacceptable quality of life. With the increased experience in post-transplant patient care and newer forms of induction (thymoglobulin, IL-2 receptor antagonists) and maintenance (tacrolimus) therapies, the 1-year graft survival has increased to 65% for isolated and to 59% for liver/small bowel transplantation and is further improving. Rejection, bacterial, fungal and viral (Cytomegalovirus, Epstein-Barr-virus) infections, post-transplant lymphoproliferative disease and graft versus host disease are the most common complications after intestinal transplantation. Although most of the long-term survivors are TPN-independent and have a good quality of life, the risk of the procedure and long-term adverse effects ofimmunosuppressive medication limits small bowel, or liver/small bowel transplantation only to patients with severe complications of TPN therapy.
Evaluation of UW solution for preservation of small intestinal transplants in the rat.	Simple cold preservation was evaluated in the rat model of small intestinal transplantation. Lewis rats received a syngeneic heterotopic graft of the jejunum either immediately (SI) or after preservation for 24 hr in Euro-Collins (SPE24), for 48 hr in EC (SPE48), for 24 hr in University Wisconsin solution (SPW24), or for 48 hr in UW (SPW48). The survival rates of SI, SPE24, SPE48, SPW24, and SPW48 were 100%, 78%, 0%, 100%, and 33%, respectively. Physiologic and pharmacologic properties of the grafts and native intestine were evaluated in vitro between 8 and 12 days after transplantation. Smooth muscle in all specimens contracted in response to cholinergic agonists, phenylephrine, and substance P, and was relaxed by isoproterenol. Excitatory innervation was present in 100%, 100%, 100%, and 67% of SI, SPE24, SPW24, and SPW48, respectively, while inhibitory innervation in each group was 50%, 29%, 60%, and 0%. Thus, smooth muscle function was preserved in all groups, but neural activity was impaired by some of the storage conditions. Preservation was best in SPW24, which had physiologic responses similar to those of SI. The rat jejunum can, therefore, be preserved in good condition for up to 24 hr before transplantation using simple cold storage in UW solution.
What is the evidence on the practice of mucous fistula refeeding in neonates with short bowel syndrome?	A systematic review of literature was performed on the practice of mucous fistula refeeding in neonates with short bowel syndrome. No randomised controlled studies were identified. Case series reports of 30 infants showed improved weight gain (from -2.36 +/- 1.24 to 21.06 +/- 3.02 g/d) and reduced need for total parenteral nutrition. Randomised controlled trials are required to establish the benefits of mucous fistula refeeding in this condition.
Improvement in the quality of life using both Bianchi's procedure and the closure of a jejunostomy in a case with short bowel syndrome.	In cases with short bowel syndrome (SBS), intestinal adaptation often requires a long time. In addition, the quality of life in SBS is not especially good due to some complications, including growth impairment, severe diarrhea, complications of parenteral nutrition (PN), and so on. We herein report an adolescent boy with SBS secondary to midgut volvulus. He suffered mainly from both severe high output syndrome, which caused a large amount of enteric fluid to flow out from the jejunostomy, and growth impairment, although PN continued after the occurrence of SBS. As a result, he thereafter could not continue his daily school life. Therefore, he was introduced to our department at 6 months after the operation. A closure of the jejunostomy combined with longitudinal intestinal lengthening using Bianchi's procedure was performed. Thereafter, the above-described symptoms disappeared. He was discharged and thereafter was again able to attend school with an improvement in his growth within 2 months after the second operation. Home PN was discontinued at 15 months after the second operation. Based on our experience, in cases of SBS without intestinal functional disorder, an early closure of the jejunostomy combined with Bianchi's procedure might therefore possibly lead to an early improvement in the complications related to SBS.
Endocrine cell and nerve regeneration in autologous in situ tissue-engineered small intestine.	The purpose of this study was to regenerate a larger size of small intestinal tissue than that of our previous study and to evaluate the regeneration of the endocrine cells (ECC) and nerve system of autologous tissue-engineered small intestine. The effect of implantation of large numbers of smooth muscle cells (SMC) for the regeneration of small intestine was also investigated.
Bombesin stimulates enterocyte turnover following massive small bowel resection in a rat.	Recent evidence suggests that bombesin (BBS) is involved in modulation of growth and differentiation of normal small intestine. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the effects of BBS on enterocyte turnover after massive small bowel resection in a rat. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into three experimental groups: Sham rats underwent bowel transection and re-anastomosis, short bowel syndrome (SBS) rats underwent a 75% small bowel resection, and SBS-BBS rats underwent bowel resection and were treated with BBS given subcutaneously at a dose of 20 mug/kg, once daily, from postoperative day 3 through 14. Parameters of intestinal adaptation (bowel and mucosal weights, mucosal DNA and protein, villus height and crypt depth), enterocyte proliferation and enterocyte apoptosis were determined in jejunum and ileum on day 15 following operation. RT-PCR technique was used to determine Bax and Bcl-2 gene expression in ileal mucosa. Statistical analysis was performed using the non-parametric Kruskal-Wallis ANOVA test, with P less than 0.05 considered statistically significant. Treatment with BBS resulted in a significant increase in ileal bowel and mucosal weight, ileal mucosal DNA and protein, jejunal and ileal villus height, jejunal crypt depth, and jejunal and ileal proliferation index compared to SBS-animals. SBS rats showed a significant increase in Bax and Bcl-2 expression in ileum that was accompanied by a significant increase in cell apoptosis compared to sham animals. SBS-BBS rats demonstrated a significant decrease in Bax and Bcl-2 expression in ileum and a decrease in apoptotic index compared to SBS-animals. In conclusion, in a rat model of SBS, BBS enhances enterocyte turnover and stimulates structural intestinal adaptation. Decreased Bax expression may be responsible for the inhibitory effect of BBS on enterocyte apoptosis.
Long-term outcomes of short bowel syndrome requiring long-term/home intravenous nutrition compared in children with gastroschisis and those with volvulus.	Short bowel syndrome (SBS) is a malabsorptive state that occurs following extensive small intestinal resection. The most severely affected children require intravenous feeding/parenteral nutrition (PN). Two common causes in infancy/early childhood are intestinal resection for volvulus and resection of necrotic small intestine in infants with gastroschisis. The aim of this study was to review the long-term outcomes of children with severe intestinal failure who remained dependent on PN for many months or years. We evaluated the outcomes among gastroschisis cases versus those following resection of mid-gut volvulus or congenital short gut.
Daclizumab and alemtuzumab as induction agents in adult intestinal and multivisceral transplantation: rejection and infection rates in 40 recipients during the early postoperative period.	Allograft rejection in intestinal transplantation occurs frequently, and bacterial, fungal, and viral infections related to strong immunosuppression regimens remain an important complication posttransplantation. Induction therapy has enabled improvement in graft and patient survival rates.
Comprehensive surgical intestinal rescue and transplantation program in adult patients: Bologna experience.	Surgical approaches to complicated benign intestinal failure are accepted worldwide, especially in the pediatric population. Intestinal transplant surgery is thought to rescue patients in whom complications of total parenteral nutrition (TPN) develop.
Outcome of exfoliative rejection after isolated intestinal transplantation in an adult: case report.	A 34-year-old-man with short-bowel syndrome received an isolated small bowel graft. On postoperative day (POD) 11, ileal biopsy specimen demonstrated mild to moderate rejection that did not respond to corticosteroid bolus therapy. On POD 14, endoscopy and histologic examination revealed exfoliative rejection that was not controlled after 14 days of therapy with thymoglobulin. On POD 95, the patient underwent surgery again because of intestinal obstruction. The graft was removed 6 months after transplantation because of continuous severe abdominal pain with weight loss. After enterectomy, the patient developed multiple-organ failure and died on POD day 8. This case underlines the severity of exfoliative rejection and suggests that early enterectomy be performed when the diagnosis is made, before deterioration of clinical status and development of infectious and nutritional complications.
Successful treatment with bortezomib of a refractory humoral rejection of the intestine after multivisceral transplantation.	Graft rejection is a serious complication after intestinal and multivisceral transplantation. Classic anti-rejection strategies often focus on addressing the cellular component, however mounting evidence suggests that antibody mediated rejection may also play an important role in patient and graft survival. Bortezomib, a proteasome inhibitor used in the treatment of multiple myeloma, has been found to be useful in treating antibody mediated rejection in kidney transplant recipients. The following case illustrates how bortezomib was used to successfully reverse refractory rejection in a patient following multivisceral transplantation. While the rejection was able to be controlled, this patient's course was complicated by an aggressive viral infection after bortezomib therapy. Bortezomib may be a useful agent in the treatment of rejection after intestinal and multivisceral transplantation; however more data is needed to assess its impact on infectious complications in this complex group of patients.
Bowel re-dilation following serial transverse enteroplasty (STEP).	The serial transverse enteroplasty (STEP) operation tapers and lengthens dilated small bowel. Some patients demonstrate bowel re-dilation following STEP. Factors associated with bowel re-dilation and its effect upon clinical outcome were evaluated.
Effects of polymeric formula vs elemental formula in neonatal piglets with short bowel syndrome.	Intestinal adaptation is important for recovery in short bowel syndrome (SBS). This process is dependent on the presence of enteral nutrition (EN) and trophic factors, such as glucagon-like peptide-2 (GLP-2). In clinical practice, elemental formula is often used to feed neonates with SBS, whereas animal studies suggest polymeric formula promotes better intestinal adaptation. In neonatal piglet models of SBS, with or without ileum, we compared the elemental with the polymeric formula, including the effect on endogenous GLP-2.
Nutrition management of infants with surgical short bowel syndrome and intestinal failure.	Appropriate nutrition recommendations are important for the successful management of the infant with an injured gastrointestinal tract postsurgery who is at risk for intestinal failure. Management strategies that can be used to augment successful adaptation and prevent liver disease are summarized in this review. These include appropriate postoperative fluid and electrolyte management, modification of parenteral nutrition to minimize intestinal failure-associated liver disease, early and aggressive enteral feeding advancement, the use of hormonal and trophic agents, prevention of central line-associated bloodstream infections using ethanol lock, appropriate treatment, and prevention of pathologic small bowel bacterial overgrowth. 
Comparison of LILT and STEP procedures in children with short bowel syndrome -- a systematic review of the literature.	To compare LILT and STEP, the two principal procedures to lengthen the native bowel in children with a short bowel syndrome (SBS), by discussing the indications and presenting the outcome from published data.
Surgical management of short bowel syndrome.	For patients with short bowel syndrome (SBS), surgery can play an important role in preventing, mitigating, and, in some cases, reversing intestinal failure (IF). During intestinal resection, bowel length should be conserved to the fullest extent possible to avoid dependence on parenteral nutrition (PN). Bowel salvage may be improved by initially preserving tissue of questionable viability and later reevaluating during "second-look" procedures. Once the patient is stabilized, ostomy reversal and recruitment of distal unused bowel should be prioritized whenever feasible. Following progression to IF, surgical management of SBS depends on the symptoms and anatomical characteristics of the individual patient. For carefully selected patients with rapid intestinal transit and dilated bowel, longitudinal intestinal lengthening and tailoring (LILT) and serial transverse enteroplasty (STEP) procedures may provide benefit. Outcomes following STEP and LILT are generally similar, and the choice between these procedures may rest on surgeon preference. For patients with rapid intestinal transit in the absence of bowel dilation, segmental reversal of the small bowel may reduce PN requirements. Intestinal transplantation is the standard of care for patients in whom intestinal rehabilitation attempts have failed and who are at risk of life-threatening complications of PN. Because patients awaiting isolated intestine transplant show increased survival compared with patients awaiting combined intestine-liver transplant, early referral of appropriate patients, before the development of advanced liver disease, is critical to enhancing patient outcomes. 
Short-gut syndrome: a new surgical technique and ultrastructural study of the liver and pancreas.	Massive (85%) resection of the small bowel was performed in 24 dogs to study a new surgical technique. In 12 dogs, two valves were created in the remaining small bowel at the same time, one proximal and the other distal to the anastomosis; the other 12 dogs constituted the control group. Biochemical tests, clinical evolution, and the weight curves show satisfactory results, with high survival, high lipid absorption, and low impairment of the overall condition. The valves can be created at the same time as the resection without any increase in the surgical risk. This new technique shows some possible advantages, and should be used in combination with total parenteral nutrition during the early stages and with basic diets thereafter. Ultrastructural alterations in the liver and pancreas have been studied in both groups.
Sequential intestinal lengthening procedures for refractory short bowel syndrome.	Better understanding of the long-term delivery of parenteral nutrition (PN) in neonates and children has increased the survival for patients who have neonatal short bowel syndrome. Most infants with short bowel syndrome experience progressive enteral adaptation and are weaned from PN. This report describes the authors' clinical experience with nine infants and children who had refractory short bowel syndrome; single or sequential procedures were performed to lengthen the small bowel. Gut lengthening procedures used included a small bowel nipple valve constructed distally, to provide temporary partial obstruction and thereby induce dilatation and lengthening of the proximal small intestine (six patients). Bianchi's technique was used in three patients primarily and in six others after the bowel had been dilated and lengthened by the nipple valve. Kimura's gut lengthening technique was used in one patient after the small bowel had spontaneously become dilated subsequent to a Bianchi procedure. In all, 16 lengthening procedures were performed on the nine patients. Preoperatively, the nine patients tolerated less than 10% of their caloric intake enterally, with no evidence of improvement for a minimum of 6 months. Small bowel segments ranged from 6 to 92 cm originally and were increased an average of 2 1/2 times the original length. Two patients have been totally weaned from PN. For the patients whose lengthening procedure was performed more than 1 year ago, the percentage of enteral caloric intake averages 50%. One of the patients was profoundly impaired neurologically and was not resuscitated from an apneic episode. Another patient died in his sleep of unknown causes 1 year after intestinal lengthening.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Partial intestinal obstruction induces substantial mucosal proliferation in the pig.	Parenteral nutrition and improving supportive treatment have resulted in prolonged survival for patients with short bowel syndrome. However, definitive therapy for patients with short bowel syndrome must focus on increasing small intestinal mucosal mass. Intestinal lengthening procedures rely on intestinal dilation to accomplish this. The authors hypothesized that partial intestinal obstruction would result in consistent dilation of the intestine and would provide increased intestinal mass for use in intestinal lengthening. The authors developed a partially obstructing prosthetic valve to dilate the intestine before intestinal lengthening. This report describes the changes elicited by the valve. Twelve weanling pigs were divided randomly into two groups of six. One group had valve placement 240 cm distal to the ligament of Treitz; the other had sham surgery. The survival rate was 100% for both groups, and the mean weight gain was similar. Both groups were fed pig chow mush and were killed 5 weeks after surgery. Intestinal diameter was measured, and the small intestine was harvested, preserved, and sectioned for microscopic examination. The mean bowel diameter 15 cm proximal to the valve was 4.7 cm in the valved group and 3.3 cm in the sham group (42% increase). Total mucosal thickness, villus height, crypt depth, and villus density were significantly greater for the valved pigs in all sections (proximal and distal to the valve). Surface index and intestinal circumference were significantly greater in the valved pigs in all sections proximal to the valve, but there was no significant difference in these values for sections distal to the valve. There was no significant difference in villus cell density between the two groups at any location. Chronic partial obstruction of the small intestine results in consistent dilation of the intestine, with growth of all layers of the bowel, including the mucosa. This dilation and mucosal growth results in a true increase in surface area and is an ideal first step toward sequential lengthening.
Short bowel syndrome--surgical aspects]	Long-term survival after massive intestinal resection is now possible with parenteral nutritional support. The expense, morbidity, and inconvenience of this therapy, however, have led to continued interest in alternatives for the treatment of the short bowel syndrome. Patients with short bowel require a multi disciplinary approach over a prolonged period. HISTORICAL CONSIDERATIONS: The history of small bowel transplantation started in 1959 when Lillehei showed that autotransplantation of the small intestine in a dog was feasible. From 1964 to 1971, 7 attempts of small bowel allotransplantations in humans have been reported. All 7 patients died.
