Effects of insulin-like growth factor-1 on Short bowel syndrome without ileocecal valve in rats.	Insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) can promote enterocyte proliferation which may be beneficial to postoperative conditions after massive small bowel resection (SBR) including the ileocecal valve (ICV). Wistar rats were subjected to SBR including or preserving ICV and continuously received IGF-1 or saline alone. Nutritional status, enterocyte proliferation, liver damage and hepatic IGF-1 mRNA levels were analyzed. Body weights, serum levels of total protein and transferrin, and enterocyte proliferation were significantly lower after SBR including ICV than preserving it. IGF-1 mRNA levels in the liver were decreased after SBR, especially after SBR including ICV. However, IGF-1 therapy significantly attenuated those decreased levels after SBR including ICV. Furthermore, IGF-1 significantly decreased serum liver transaminase levels which were increased after SBR including ICV. Continuous administration of IGF-1 may be available as a supplemented therapy for short bowel syndrome without ICV.
Nutritional effects of surgical and medical treatment for short bowel syndrome.	The choice of treatment options in short bowel syndrome (SBS) is hampered by a lack of comparative studies. This study uses a previously validated juvenile pig model of SBS to compare nontreated controls (C), surgical treatment with either proximal colon interposition (CI) or bowel lengthening (BL), with medical treatment with codeine and cimetidine (M).
Conjugated bile acid replacement therapy in short bowel syndrome patients with a residual colon.	To test the efficacy of cholylsarcosine (synthetic conjugated bile acid) and ox bile extracts (mixture of natural conjugated bile acids) on fat absorption, diarrhea, and nutritional state in four short bowel syndrome (SBS) patients with a residual colon not requiring parenteral alimentation.
Colostrum protein concentrate enhances intestinal adaptation after massive small bowel resection in juvenile pigs.	Short bowel syndrome (SBS) usually results from the surgical removal of a large segment of small intestine. Patient outcome depends on the extent of intestinal resection and adaptation of the remaining intestine. We evaluated the impact of colostrum protein concentrate (CPC) on intestinal adaptation after massive small bowel resection in a porcine model of infant SBS.
Enteric-coated cholylsarcosine microgranules for the treatment of short bowel syndrome.	Cholylsarcosine (CS) is a semisynthetic bile salt that may be useful in bile salt replacement therapy of short bowel syndrome (SBS). In SBS the bile salt pool becomes depleted, disturbing the uptake of dietary lipids and resulting in weight loss. Previous studies showed that CS in a simple capsule formulation of 1.5-12 g day(-1) can increase the uptake of lipids but often results in gastric irritation. In this work a microgranule dosage form was developed to protect the gastric mucosa while facilitating rapid generation of CS levels in the duodenum. CS microgranules were produced by wet granulation and coated with Eudragit L30D-55 in a fluidized-bed coater. The in-vitro dissolution rate of CS from the microgranules was investigated with USP apparatus under fasted- and fed-state conditions. CS release was delayed under simulated gastric conditions (pH 1.2 and 4.5) but was very fast at higher pH values (5.5, 5.8 and 6.5) more typical of the duodenum. In a pilot clinical trial, four patients received 4 g CS with meals (1.5 g with lunch, 2.5 g with dinner) for 1 week. The parameters investigated were fat absorption coefficient (FAC%), serum beta-carotene level and faecal weight. Although study numbers were too small to achieve statistical significance, the serum beta-carotene level and FAC% increased in the three patients who completed the trial. As expected, the fecal weight did not change. The results indicate that the CS microgranules are promising for the treatment of the intraluminal bile salt deficiency in patients with SBS.
Growth factors in short-bowel syndrome patients.	Malabsorption is a key finding in patients with short-bowel syndrome. Malabsorption of nonessential and essential nutrients, fluids, and electrolytes, if not compensated for by increased intake, leads to diminished body stores and subclinical and (eventually) clinical deficiencies. After intestinal resection, adaptation (a spontaneous progressive recovery from the malabsorptive disorder) may be evident. This article describes selected factors responsible for the morphologic and functional changes in the adaptive processes and presents results of clinical trials that use either growth hormone or glucagon-like peptide-2 to facilitate a condition of hyperadaptation in short-bowel patients.
Cisapride improves enteral tolerance in pediatric short-bowel syndrome with dysmotility.	Gastrointestinal dysmotility is common in pediatric short-bowel syndrome, leading to prolonged parenteral nutrition dependence. There is limited literature regarding the safety and efficacy of cisapride for this indication. The aim of the study was to describe the safety and efficacy of cisapride for enteral intolerance in pediatric short-bowel syndrome.
Controlled release of vascular endothelial growth factor enhances intestinal adaptation in rats with extensive small intestinal resection.	Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) has been shown to be an essential factor in the intestinal adaption after extensive bowel resection. The present study investigates the controlled release of VEGF as a way to improve intestinal adaptation.
Administration of a dipeptidyl peptidase IV inhibitor enhances the intestinal adaptation in a mouse model of short bowel syndrome.	Glucagon-like peptide-2 induces small intestine mucosal epithelial cell proliferation and may have benefit for patients who suffer from short bowel syndrome. However, glucagon-like peptide-2 is inactivated rapidly in vivo by dipeptidyl peptidase IV. Therefore, we hypothesized that selectively inhibiting dipeptidyl peptidase IV would prolong the circulating life of glucagon-like peptide-2 and lead to increased intestinal adaptation after development of short bowel syndrome.
Dietary fish oil increases fat absorption and fecal bile acid content without altering bile acid synthesis in 20-d-old weanling rats following massive ileocecal resection.	Dietary fish oil (FO) was reported to lower fecal fat excretion in a weanling rat model of short bowel syndrome (SBS) after ileocecal resection (ICR), and to induce changes in secretion and synthesis of bile acid (BA) in adults. We hypothesized that dietary FO, as compared with corn oil (CO), increases intestinal fat absorption in weanling SBS rats in part due to increased hepatic BA synthesis and luminal BA concentrations.
Essential role of angiotensin receptors in the modulation of intestinal epithelial cell apoptosis.	We have previously shown that angiotensin II (ANGII) plays an important role in the regulation of the apoptosis of intestinal epithelial cells (IECs). In this study, we investigated the pathway by which ANGII modulates apoptosis of the IECs.
Teduglutide for the treatment of short bowel syndrome.	Glucagon-like peptide 2 (GLP-2) decreases gastric and intestinal motility, reduces gastric secretions, promotes intestinal growth and improves post-resection structural and functional adaptation in short bowel syndrome (SBS). Teduglutide, an analogue of GLP-2, has a prolonged half-life and provides intestinotrophic effects with once-daily subcutaneous injection in patients with SBS. This monograph reviews the preclinical and clinical data that provide the scientific rationale for the use of teduglutide in this orphan condition. Teduglutide increases intestinal absorption and diminishes the need for parenteral support in patients with SBS. The adverse event profile is consistent with the underlying disease and the known mechanism of action of teduglutide. Following its positive regulatory review and approval by the European Medicines Agency and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in 2012, teduglutide has moved from the research setting to clinical practice, offering a new treatment paradigm for this burdensome and potentially life-threatening condition. 
Pharmacologic options for intestinal rehabilitation in patients with short bowel syndrome.	A primary goal of intestinal rehabilitation programs is to facilitate intestinal adaptation. Adult patients with short bowel syndrome (SBS) who are dependent on parenteral nutrition and/or intravenous fluid (PN/IV) support have 2 hormonal pharmacologic treatment options available that may promote intestinal growth: a glucagon-like peptide 2 analog (teduglutide) and recombinant human growth hormone (somatropin). In two phase III clinical trials (N=169), 24 weeks of teduglutide administered to outpatients with SBS resulted in significant decreases in PN/IV volume requirements of 2.5-4.4 L/wk. In an extension study of one of these trials, patients with SBS who completed 30 months of teduglutide experienced a mean PN/IV reduction of 7.6 L/wk from baseline. Furthermore, some patients achieved independence from PN/IV support. The most common adverse events associated with teduglutide treatment in clinical trials were gastrointestinal symptoms, including abdominal distension, abdominal pain, and nausea. This safety profile is consistent with the associated underlying diseases leading to SBS or the known mechanism of action of teduglutide. A single phase III study (N=41) evaluated the safety and efficacy of a 4-week inpatient course of somatropin in combination with a glutamine-supplemented diet for adults with SBS. Somatropin treatment significantly reduced parenteral support requirements by 1.1 L/d in these patients. The most common adverse events were peripheral edema and musculoskeletal events. Large-scale, long-term follow-up studies of somatropin for SBS have not been conducted. Although treatment for patients with SBS must be individualized, teduglutide and somatropin are positive extensions to existing fluid and nutrient management strategies.
Glucagon-like peptide 2 is a potent growth factor for small intestine and colon.	Factors that stimulate gut mucosal proliferation may be beneficial during periods of gut disuse or atrophy. Recently glucagon-like peptide 2 (GLP-2) has been shown to stimulate small bowel growth. The purpose of our study was to compare the trophic effects of GLP-2 with those of neurotensin (NT), a potent gut trophic factor. Mice were randomized to receive either GLP-2, NT, or saline solution (control) for 10 days. The mice were killed on day 11, at which time the jejunum, ileum, and colon were removed, weighed, and DNA and protein content measured. Mice treated with GLP-2 showed a significant increase in the weight of the jejunum, ileum, and colon compared to both control and NT-treated mice. DNA content, a marker of cellular hyperplasia, was significantly increased in the small bowel and colon by treatment with GLP-2 and NT compared to control tissues. Small intestinal protein content, an indicator of cellular hypertrophy, was significantly increased by GLP-2 compared to both NT and control; protein content of the colon was greater in each of the treatment groups compared with control mice. We have demonstrated, for the first time, that GLP-2 stimulates colonic growth. In addition, GLP-2 is a potent trophic factor of normal small intestine with proliferative effects that are equal to or greater than those of NT. Administration of GLP-2 may be useful clinically to enhance small intestinal regeneration and adaptation during periods of disease and in the early phases of the short bowel syndrome.
Enteral glutamine does not enhance the effects of hepatocyte growth factor in short bowel syndrome.	This study was designed to determine if luminally administered glutamine alone functions as a growth factor or is synergistic with hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) after massive small bowel resection (MSBR).
