The measurement level and trait-specific reliability of 4 scales of shoulder functioning: an empiric investigation.	To evaluate 4 scales of shoulder function with respect to (1) their precision at different levels of shoulder function and (2) the measurement level of their raw scores (interval vs ordinal).
The use of early flap coverage in severe open physeal fractures: a report of two cases.	Open physeal fractures associated with severe overlying soft tissue loss present significant challenges to the pediatric orthopaedic surgeon. In addition to providing adequate soft tissue coverage, preventing chronic infection, and achieving bony healing, surgical care should attempt to preserve the physis to maintain growth for the best long-term outcomes. Here we present two cases of open physeal disruptions with severe soft tissue loss. In each case, early use of vascularized flap coverage assisted in fracture healing and contributed to preservation of the physis and subsequent bony growth.
Labral-ligamentous complex of the shoulder. Evaluation with double oblique axial MR arthrography.	To assess the ability of double oblique axial (DOA) MR arthrography in evaluating labral-ligamentous complex compared with conventional axial (CA) MR arthrography.
Arthroscopic management of spinoglenoid cysts associated with SLAP lesions and suprascapular neuropathy.	Suprascapular neuropathy secondary to cyst compression in the spinoglenoid notch may occur in association with SLAP tears. Arthroscopic techniques may be employed for both cyst excision and repair of labral pathology. We describe 3 cases in which preoperative and postoperative electromyograms and magnetic resonance imaging documented cyst resolution and return of suprascapular nerve function after arthroscopic spinoglenoid cyst excision and labral repair.
Biceps tendon disorders: ultrasound, MR imaging and MR arthrography]	Ultrasound and MR imaging are competitive imaging modalities for the diagnosis of pathologic conditions of the biceps tendon. MR imaging has substantial advantages over ultrasound because biceps tendon lesions are most commonly located in the proximal part where lesions are hidden under the acromion for ultrasound assessment. The value of MR arthrography is substantiated by the capability to assess associated diagnoses which are otherwise difficult to assess. Associated diagnoses include full- and partial thickness tears of supraspinatus and subscapularis tendons, pulley lesions, and adhesive capsulitis (frozen shoulder). Moreover, MR arthrography is the method of choice for the assessment of superior labral anterior posterior (SLAP) lesions.
Surgical treatment of traumatic lesions of the axillary nerve. A retrospective study of 33 cases.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the recovery of muscular strength after surgical intervention in axillary nerve injuries. Surgery was elected when no signs of recovery were noted after three months of conservative treatment. Between 1980 and 1996, 46 traumatic lesions of the axillary nerve were surgically treated. Thirteen patients were excluded from the study for various reasons. Among the remaining 33, 20 with interruption of the nerve trunk were treated with nerve grafts and 13 lesions with the nerve in continuity underwent neurolysis. After a mean follow-up of more than two years, deltoid muscle strength was good or fair in 18 patients and poor in 15 cases. The outcome seemed to be better in isolated lesions than in complex nerve lesions with a favourable outcome in 6/10 patients vs 8/14, in patients younger than 25 years compared to older patients (8/14 vs 8/19), in patients treated with neurolysis (9/13) compared to grafting (9/20), and when graft length was limited (4/4 patients with a graft 6cm or less, 5/8 with a graft over 6cm in length). The outcome was less favourable when associated osteoarticular lesions were present (8/23 versus 8/10) and most convincingly, when surgery was delayed beyond six months (10/22 versus 8/11).
Postoperative imaging of the shoulder]	Correct interpretation of imaging findings in the postoperative shoulder is impaired by surgical distortion of normal anatomy and possible artifacts. Advanced postoperative imaging of the shoulder in addition to the selection of the best suited modality necessitates familiarity with the surgical procedure that has been performed and its consecutive morphological changes. This article reviews the most common arthroscopic and open techniques used for treatment of shoulder instability, lesions of the superior labral-bicipital complex, primary impingement, and rotator cuff tears, their typical postoperative imaging findings, as well as the diagnostic performance of cross sectional imaging techniques in the detection of recurrent lesions and complications.
Associations between body-mass index and surgery for rotator cuff tendinitis.	Rotator cuff tendinopathy is a common entity. We hypothesized that obesity, because of biomechanical and systemic risk factors, increases the risks of rotator cuff tendinitis, tears, and related surgical procedures.
Conservative treatment and rehabilitation of shoulder problems]	The shoulder joint has an important influence on arm- and hand function. Therefore, activities of daily living, working and leisure time can be negatively influenced by diseases of the shoulder joint. Problems of the shoulder joint can be induced by muscular dysbalance and poor body posture. There is a strong relationship between shoulder function and body posture. Conservative treatment and rehabilitation of the shoulder joint aims at improving the local dysfunction of the shoulder joint as well as at improving function and social participation. Antiinflammatory and pain medication, exercise, occupational, electro-, ultrasound and shock wave therapy, massage, thermotherapy and pulsed electromagnetic fields are used as conservative treatments. Exercise therapy aims at improving muscular performance, joint mobility and body posture. Occupational therapy aims at improving functional movements for daily living and work. Electrotherapy is primarily used to relieve pain. Shock wave and ultrasound therapy proved to be an effective treatment for patients with calcific tendinitis. The subacromial impingement syndrome can be effectively treated by conservative therapy.
New developments for the surgical treatment of shoulder problems]	Tremendous advancement has been made in the surgical treatment of the shoulder within the last years. Arthroscopic techniques for treatment of rotator cuff lesions, instability problems and biceps tendon lesions are today established because of significant improvement of instruments, suture materials and anchor techniques. The 4th generation of shoulder prosthesis systems guarantee today anatomical and biomechanical advantages with significant functional improvement for the patient.
Trapezius musculocutaneous flap in severe shoulder and neck burn.	Scarring of the neck produces problems with function and appearance. The highly mobile anterior neck with its thin skin cover is particularly prone to flexion contractures that can range from minimally restrictive to crippling mentosternal synechiae. The trapezius muscle is the basis for muscle and musculocutaneous flaps that are of great usefulness in reconstructing defects of the head and neck and the upper back specially when there are no other regional flaps available. Use of trapezius musculocutaneous flap in the treatment of cicatricial contracture deformity of neck results in satisfactory function and external appearance and is a good method for the repair of soft tissue defects of the neck with the advantage of invariable blood supply. There is no deformation in the donor region which is hidden posteriorly. Its blood supply is rich enough to avoid any local necrosis after transplantation. Up to the present time this flap has been used to cover defects following excision of tumors in the head and upper parts of neck. Use of the trapezius musculocutaneous flap in seven patients who suffered from severe scarring in anterior neck and shoulder due to burn during an 8-year period (1995-2003) is described with good results achieved.
Neuro-orthopedic management of shoulder deformity and dysfunction in brain-injured patients: a novel approach.	Shoulder problems are common in patients with traumatic brain injury. Very little has been written about the evaluation and neuro-orthopedic management of these problems. This is largely because there have not been surgical treatments available other than release of contracted, nonfunctional shoulders. Shoulder problems can be classified and evaluated using several different strategies: bony versus soft tissue restrictions; static versus dynamic deformities; traumatic injuries versus impairments secondary to weakness and spasticity; or problems of active function versus problems of passive function. Regardless of the classification system employed a systematic approach to evaluation and treatment is essential. Shoulder impairments can be corrected leading to significant improvement in functional outcomes. In this paper we report on the novel evaluation and surgical management options developed in our program for the most common shoulder problems encountered in patients with traumatic brain injury.
Quantification of acute neck pain following whiplash injury by computer-aided pressure algesimetry.	Until now the clinical investigation of cervical pain due to whiplash injury is mainly based on finger palpation. The present study introduces a PC-interactive pressure algesimetry to standardize cervical pain measurement. Pressure pain scores of the splenius and trapezius muscles of 23 patients with an acute cervical syndrome after whiplash injury were compared to those of 24 healthy subjects. The pressure painfulness of neck and shoulder muscles was significantly increased in whiplash patients. The splenii muscles showed an equally increased muscle pain whereas the trapezii muscles showed a left-sided preponderance of painfulness, possibly due to the seat belt position in this group of motor vehicle drivers. The computer-interactive pressure algesimetry enables a standardized and rater-independent quantification of the cervical syndrome with neck and shoulder pain caused by whiplash injury.
Acute shoulder injuries.	The shoulder is the most mobile joint in the human body. The cost of such versatility is an increased risk of injury. It is important that family physicians understand the anatomy of the shoulder, mechanisms of injury, typical physical and radiologic findings, approach to management of injuries, and indications for referral. Clavicle fractures are among the most common acute shoulder injuries, and more than 80 percent of them can be managed conservatively. Humeral head fractures are less common and usually occur in elderly persons; 85 percent of them can be managed nonoperatively. Common acute soft tissue injuries include shoulder dislocations, rotator cuff tears, and acromioclavicular sprains. Acromioclavicular injuries are graded from types I to VI. Types I and II are treated conservatively, types IV to VI are treated surgically, and there is debate about the best approach for type III. Eighty percent of shoulder dislocations are anterior. Diagnosis of this injury is straightforward. The injury usually can be reduced by employing a number of nonsurgical techniques. Traumatic or acute rotator cuff tears can be managed conservatively or surgically, depending on the patient and the degree of injury.
Obstetrical brachial plexus palsy--etiopathogenesis, risk factors, prevention, prognosis]	Obstetrical brachial plexus palsy (OBP) complicates a small proportion of births. The incidence is believed to be 0.35 to 5 cases per 1000 live births. Risk factors of OBP included: 1/ large birth weight, 2/ shoulder dystocia and prolonged second stage of labour , 3/ instrumental vaginal delivery (forceps delivery, vacuum extraction), 4/ diabetes mellitus and mother's obesity, 5/ breech presentation, 6/ delivery an infant with OBP in an antecedent delivery. Historically, the cause of OBP was excessive lateral traction applied to the fetal head at delivery, in association with anterior shoulder dystocia. Not all cases of brachial plexus palsy are attributable to traction. Brachial plexus injury may be occurring in the absence of shoulder dystocia, in the posterior arm of infants with anterior shoulder dystocia and can be associated with cesarean delivery. Intrauterine factors may play some role in the etiology of the OBP. Many strategies have been proposed to prevent the occurrence of OBP--control of the birth weight, induction of labour, cesarean delivery, intensified management of gestational diabetes. About 10-20% of patients with injuries of the brachial plexus require surgical intervention for optimal results.
Sonography of full-thickness supraspinatus tears: comparison of patient positioning technique with surgical correlation.	Sonography has become a popular technique for the assessment of musculoskeletal disorders. Patient positioning is crucial to a thorough and accurate assessment of rotator cuff tendons. Two positions, the Crass and modified Crass, have been routinely used in the research and clinical settings to examine the supraspinatus tendon. Our study was a prospective trial to determine whether the Crass or the modified Crass position affords the most accurate measure of supraspinatus tears when compared with surgical findings.
MR imaging appearance of 180-360 degrees labral tears of the shoulder.	Glenoid labral tears exceeding 180 degrees are an uncommon entity in which characteristic clinical and MR imaging features can lead to a more accurate preoperative diagnosis. We provide a description of glenoid labral tears that exceed 180 degrees, and their characteristic magnetic resonance imaging features. In the young, heavily muscled male athlete, the identification of multiple sites of labral pathology and isolated, extensive posterior labral injuries are features that should raise suspicion for labral tears that exceed 180 degrees.
Patient characteristics and clinical management of patients with shoulder pain in U.S. primary care settings: secondary data analysis of the National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey.	Although shoulder pain is a commonly encountered problem in primary care, there are few studies examining its presenting characteristics and clinical management in this setting.
Pediatric shoulder trauma.	Pediatric shoulder trauma is relatively uncommon. Injuries requiring surgical intervention are even rarer. However, it is important for the practicing orthopaedic surgeon to differentiate nonoperative injuries from the urgent and potentially operative injuries. Missing such an injury in the pediatric population could be potentially life threatening or lead to long-term disability. Posterior sternoclavicular dislocations should be differentiated from medial clavicular physeal injuries and promptly reduced. Open fractures or neurovascular threatening fractures should be attended to immediately. Severely displaced proximal physeal humerus fractures in the older child often have a better long-term outcome after anatomic reduction. Finally, although glenohumeral dislocations, once reduced, are not life threatening or limb threatening, they do have a very high incidence of recurrence in adolescent patients. This should be kept in mind when formulating the treatment plan. If these overall treatment recommendations and plans are adhered to, the majority of pediatric shoulder trauma will result in a good outcome.
Haemorrhagic shock after severe blunt shoulder trauma]	The management of severe injured patients requires life-threatening lesions research, especially potential haemorrhagic lesions. The haemorrhagic shock is a rare but serious complication of shoulder girdle traumas. We report in this study the clinical and paraclinical signs that lead us to take care from such evolution.
Differences in multi-joint kinematic patterns of repetitive hammering in healthy, fatigued and shoulder-injured individuals.	Work-related musculo-skeletal disorders have been previously related to movement repetition, inadequate postures, non-ergonomic environments, muscular imbalance and fatigue. However, no direct link between fatigue and injury has been experimentally shown. To address this problem, we compared the effects of fatigue and injury on the kinematics of repetitive hammering.
Shoulder injuries.	Shoulder injuries result from acute or repetitive over-use mechanisms. An outline for a careful history and physical examination is presented along with recommendations for radiographic imaging of shoulder injuries dependent on the suspected diagnosis and injury mechanism. Descriptions of the more common shoulder problems are presented with recommendations for non-surgical treatment. Indications for surgical treatment that will allow the primary practitioner to best manage these injuries are presented.
Biomechanical properties of the biceps-labral complex submitted to mechanical stress.	To determine biomechanical properties of the superior labrum-biceps tendon complex submitted to continuous and sudden mechanical strain.
A survey of decision-making processes in the treatment of common shoulder ailments among primary care physicians.	To encourage consistent care for patients with musculoskeletal complaints, the AAOS developed treatment algorithms to aid primary care physicians in the management of these patients. A survey was designed to assess whether a random group of primary care physicians treated their patients in a manner consistent with these algorithms. The AAOS algorithm for shoulder pain was used to develop a questionnaire for primary care physicians. An Internet company provided access to a national base of physicians who volunteered to complete the survey. Ten questions were presented on five shoulder conditions: rotator cuff disease, fractures, instability, arthritis, and frozen shoulder The "correct" answer was based upon the AAOS algorithm. The survey was completed by 706 physicians who treated variable (one to greater than ten) numbers of shoulder patients per month. Forty-eight percent of the physicians treated acute trauma according to the algorithm, 87% treated arthritis, and 58% treated instability. Only 46% of physicians chose the correct answer for an acute rotator cuff tear and 29% for chronic rotator cuff symptoms. Forty-four percent followed the algorithm for frozen shoulder. Overall only 49% of the patients described were treated according to the AAOS algorithms. Based on the number of shoulder patients seen each month, in one month over 2000 patients could be tested by the surveyed physicians in a manner inconsistent with the treatment algorithms, suggesting the need for improved musculoskeletal education for primary care physicians.
MR arthrography of traumatic anterior shoulder lesions showed modest reproducibility and accuracy when evaluated under clinical circumstances.	We examined the reproducibility and accuracy of high-field MRA in traumatic anterior shoulder instability under conditions resembling clinical practice and assessed the influence of observer experience.
Obstetric brachial plexus palsy: a prospective study on risk factors related to manual assistance during the second stage of labor.	To evaluate the association between obstetric brachial plexus palsy and obstetrical maneuvers during the second stage of delivery.
MRI of shoulder trauma.	Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is an invaluable tool for evaluating traumatic injuries of the shoulder. This article discusses MRI of shoulder trauma based on mechanism of injury. Acute direct traumatic injuries, acute indirect traumatic injuries, and repetitive microtraumatic injuries (impingement/traction) are discussed. Finally, common pitfalls in shoulder imaging are addressed.
Shoulder dystocia without versus with brachial plexus injury: a case-control study.	To delineate factors that differentiate shoulder dystocia with and without brachial plexus injury (BPI).
Assessment of shoulder function]	In 1980, a major study began on the recovery of shoulder function following injuries of various kinds. In order to try and assess shoulder function and it's recovery following injury, it became apparent that diagnostic assessments of the shoulder were of little value, and the Author worked on designing a method of shoulder functional assessment what would allow easy and repeated assessment of shoulder function at various intervals following injury. This method of shoulder functional assessment is now used as a standard practice in many centres, throughout the world, and this paper aims to present the clinical method of functional assessment, as used by the Author, in plotting progress following injury over a number of years. The method has been extensively used by the author and others over the past ten years, in studying the recovery of shoulder function in different disease processes, after injuries and after various treatments, including surgery.
Ergonomic evaluation of masons laying concrete masonry units and autoclaved aerated concrete.	Masons working with concrete masonry unit block have high rates of work-related musculoskeletal disorders to the low back and shoulders associated with repetitively lifting and buttering heavy block. A new material, autoclaved aerated concrete, may reduce the risk of shoulder and back injury but, ergonomic evaluation is needed. This study evaluated shoulder exposure parameters, low back stress, and worker perceptions in two groups of journey level masons, one using CMU and the other using AAC block. Results indicate that for the left arm AAC masons spent significantly more time than CMU masons in static (38.2% versus 31.1%, respectively), and less time in slow motions (48.2% versus 52.2%, respectively) and faster motions (13.6% versus 16.7%, respectively) (p<0.05). CMU masons had significantly greater shoulder and low back pain (p=0.009) and they held block significantly longer than AAC masons (p<0.001). Low back compressive forces were high for both materials. Masons handling AAC demonstrated less left upper extremity stress but both materials were estimated to be hazardous to the low back.
Partial thickness rotator cuff tears: results of arthroscopic treatment.	Thirty-one patients with arthroscopically documented partial thickness rotator cuff tears treated by arthroscopic debridement of the lesion were retrospectively reviewed. The patients had had symptoms for an average of 20.5 months prior to surgery. Twenty-two of these 31 shoulders also had bursoscopy, with 18 having arthroscopic subacromial decompression. The results were graded by both the UCLA Shoulder Rating Scale and Neer's criteria. Twenty-six (84%) of the patients had satisfactory results with the remaining 5 (16%) patients having unsatisfactory results. A classification system for the size and location of partial thickness rotator cuff tears is presented. The lesion size did not affect the result. Repeat arthroscopy in three patients demonstrated no further deterioration of their rotator cuff. The results with and without subacromial decompression were similar. The need for subacromial decompression is best determined by the arthroscopic finding of a bursal side tear.
Arthroscopic subacromial decompression in the treatment of full-thickness rotator cuff tears.	Arthroscopic subacromial decompression has become an accepted treatment for patients with impingement syndrome; however, its use for full-thickness rotator cuff tears is controversial. We observed 25 patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears treated by arthroscopic subacromial decompression and cuff debridement alone with a minimum of 1 year follow-up observation. Based on the University of California at Los Angeles shoulder rating, 84% of the cases were rated as excellent or good. There was significant improvement in pain, function, motion, and strength. Eighty-eight percent of the patients were satisfied with the procedure. Although all tear sizes improved significantly, smaller tears fared better than larger tears. The preliminary results of arthroscopic subacromial decompression with cuff debridement compare favorably to open techniques of rotator cuff repair with or without acromioplasty and should be considered in selected patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears.
Summary of an evidence-based guideline on soft tissue shoulder injuries and related disorders--Part 1: Assessment.	To provide a succinct summary of the diagnosis of soft tissue injuries to the shoulder for primary health care practitioners based on the New Zealand guideline.
Summary of an evidence-based guideline on soft tissue shoulder injuries and related disorders--Part 2: Management.	To provide a succinct summary of the management of soft tissue injuries to the shoulder for primary health care practitioners based on the New Zealand guideline.
Superior labral anterior-posterior lesions in rock climbers—primary double tenodesis?	Shoulder problems, especially SLAP (superior labral anterior-posterior) lesions, are frequent in rock climbers. Although various SLAP repair methods demonstrate 75% to 97% good functional outcomes in general population, the results in overhead athletes are inconsistent and the question whether a primary tenodesis is more efficient arises.
Shoulder ultrasonography versus arthroscopy for the detection of rotator cuff tears: analysis of errors.	To compare shoulder ultrasonography with arthroscopy for detecting specific rotator cuff tears.
Why repair the subscapularis? A logical rationale.	Tears of the subscapularis tendon are now more frequently recognized and are often associated with tears of the posterosuperior rotator cuff tendons. This has been facilitated by arthroscopic approaches, and repair techniques have been developed. In the setting of a rotator cuff repair, when a subscapularis tendon tear is found in continuity with a supraspinatus tendon tear, it is essential to recognize how the repair of both tendon tears can influence the overall security of the entire repair construct. When a repairable subscapularis tendon tear is left unrepaired, the function of the subscapularis muscle will be lost. In addition, the posterosuperior rotator cuff tear will be more difficult to repair, and it will be less securely repaired. When the subscapularis tendon is repaired initially, the posterosuperior rotator cuff repair can be more easily and more reliable achieved.
Serial structural and functional assessments of rotator cuff repairs: do they differ at 6 and 19 months postoperatively?	Some studies have shown that rotator cuff tendon (RCT) retears occur early after surgery and ultimate failure strength is reached at between 3 and 6 months. However, few clinical studies have been reported to support their theory. The purpose of this study was to determine whether the RCT integrity after repair showed any difference at 6 months and at 19 months postoperatively.
Diagnosis of bursal-side partial-thickness rotator cuff tears.	To study the clinical features and diagnosis of bursal-side partial-thickness rotator cuff tears.
Shoulder rotational properties of throwing athletes.	Throwing arm injuries are common and often related to the shoulder external and internal rotation. Quantitative assessment may provide new insights to physical assessment and options for treatment. After having signed IRB approved consents and filled out injury questionnaires, 96 baseball pitchers were examined on both shoulders using a custom-made wireless device. The resistance onset angle (ROA), end-point angle (EPA), shoulder rotational flexibility (SRF) in both external and internal rotation, and rotational ranges of motion (ROM) of both shoulders were determined. About 34% of subjects had surgeries on their throwing arm. Another 15% of subjects had throwing arm injuries that did not require surgical treatments. The throwing arm had significantly lower internal ROA, EPA and SRF, but significantly higher external ROA, EPA and SRF than the non-throwing arm. There were significant differences in shoulder rotational properties among groups with different surgery locations. Subjects with shoulder surgeries had greater internal rotation flexibility of their throwing arm than those with surgeries on the elbow. Throwers with injury and surgery history had significantly different shoulder rotational properties. Abnormal shoulder rotational properties may be related to throwing arm injuries. A better understanding of their relationship may lead us to effective preventive measures of throwing arm injuries.
Mechanisms of traumatic shoulder injury in elite rugby players.	Shoulder injuries in rugby players are common, but the mechanisms of injury are less well understood. This study aims to elucidate common mechanisms of injury and identify the patterns of injury they produce.
Epidemiology of musculoskeletal injury in the tennis player.	Tennis is a popular sport with tens of millions of players participating worldwide. This popularity was one factor leading to the reappearance of tennis as a medal sport at the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, South Korea. The volume of play, combined with the physical demands of the sports, can lead to injuries of the musculoskeletal system. Overall, injury incidence and prevalence in tennis has been reported in a number of investigations. The sport creates specific demands on the musculoskeletal system, with acute injuries, such as ankle sprains, being more frequent in the lower extremity while chronic overuse injuries, such as lateral epicondylitis, are more common in the upper extremity in the recreational player and shoulder pain more common in the high-level player. This review discusses the epidemiology of injuries frequently experienced in tennis players and examines some of these injuries' correlation with the development of osteoarthritis. In addition, player-specific factors, such as age, sex, volume of play, skill level, racquet properties and grip positions as well as the effect of playing surface on the incidence and prevalence of injury is reported. Finally, recommendations on standardisation of future epidemiological studies on tennis injuries are made in order to be able to more easily compare results of future investigations.
Scapular dyskinesis and its relation to shoulder injury.	The scapula plays a key role in nearly every aspect of normal shoulder function. Scapular dyskinesis-altered scapular positioning and motion-is found in association with most shoulder injuries. Basic science and clinical research findings have led to the identification of normal three-dimensional scapular kinematics in scapulohumeral rhythm and to abnormal kinematics in shoulder injury, the development of clinical methods of evaluating the scapula (eg, scapular assistance test, scapular retraction test), and the formulation of rehabilitation guidelines. Primary scapular presentations such as scapular winging and snapping should be managed with a protocol that is focused on the scapula. Persons with associated conditions such as shoulder impingement, rotator cuff disease, labral injury, clavicle fracture, acromioclavicular joint injury, and multidirectional instability should be evaluated for scapular dyskinesis and treated accordingly.
Lifting tasks are associated with injuries during the early portion of a deployment to Afghanistan.	U.S. Army soldiers spend months at a time working in austere environments during deployments. The numerous physical demands placed on them during deployment can lead to musculoskeletal injuries. These injuries account for the majority of medical evacuations and lost duty days, seriously affecting mission readiness. Because of limited electronic injury data, little research has been done on physical demands associated with injury in deployed environments. To this end, this study conducted a survey on 263 soldiers in a Stryker Brigade Combat Team during their third month of deployment to Afghanistan. In the third month, 23% sustained an injury and 43% of injuries affected the low-back, shoulder, or knee. Dismounted patrolling and lifting were reported to account for 36% of injuries. Wearing heavy loads and lifting tasks were identified as injury risk factors. Wearing heavier equipment and lifting objects higher may increase physical demands and may result in injury.
Imaging of superior labral anterior to posterior (SLAP) tears of the shoulder.	Superior labral anterior to posterior (SLAP) tears include a number of abnormal changes of the superior glenoid labrum. SLAP tears have been first reported in elite young atlete and are caused by repetitive overhead motion or by a fall on an outstretched arm. SLAP can lead to chronic pain and instability of shoulder. A diagnosis of SLAP may be difficult on the basis of clinical tests. Hence, modern imaging, including computed tomography arthrography (CTA), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and magnetic resonance arthrography (MRA) play a key role in the diagnosis of SLAP. The large number of normal anatomic variants of the superior labrum and the surrounding structures make the interpretation of SLAP challenging on imaging and at arthroscopy. In this article the imaging of SLAP are discussed in detail along with relevant anatomy, anatomic variants and biomechanics.
An unusual effect of interferential therapy.	In this report, a patient with severe shoulder pain was treated with interferential currents, a commonly used modality in physiotherapy for the management of pain. He reported loss of concentration, drowsiness, decreased alertness and gait disturbance, along with analgaesia, for 4-5 h after each treatment. He was regularly taking tramadol HCl for pain relief. Endogenous opioids produced in response to interferential therapy may be excessive or may interact with the tramadol HCl and potentiate its effect. There is no published report of interferential-induced symptoms, as described above, in the authors' knowledge. The clinician using interferential currents should be aware of this possible effect.
Adaptive changes in the dominant shoulders of female professional overhead athletes: mutual association and relation to shoulder injury.	The aim of our study was to evaluate adaptive changes in the dominant shoulders of female professional overhead athletes, their mutual association, and relation between adaptive changes and shoulder injury. Thirty-six female professional volleyball and handball players were divided into two groups: 14 athletes were included in the symptomatic group (positive shoulder injury history and specific shoulder tests) and 22 athletes were included in the asymptomatic group (negative shoulder injury history and specific shoulder tests). Clinical examinations with specific shoulder tests, evaluation of rotational mobility, and symptoms of malposition and dyskinesis of the dominant scapula (SICK scapula syndrome) were performed. Glenohumeral rotators were isokinetically tested at 60 and 150°/s, with evaluation of stability ratios and rotator fatigability. On average, the participants had decreased internal rotation (P<0.001) and increased external rotation (P<0.001), lower spiking (P<0.01 at 60 and 150°/s) and conventional ratios (P≤0.01 at 60 and 150°/s), lower eccentric external rotator peak torques (eER) (P≤0.05 at 60 and 150°/s), and marginally lower eccentric internal rotator peak torques at 60°/s (P=0.061) on the dominant side compared with the nondominant side. The symptomatic group showed decreased ER (P=0.021), higher deficit of dominant eER at 60°/s (P=0.049), and higher fatigability of internal (P=0.013) and external rotators (P=0.028). The athletes with increased ER had more scapular lateralization (ρ=0.340, P=0.042), higher spiking ratios at 60°/s (ρ=0.349, P=0.037) and 150°/s (ρ=0.330, P=0.049), and lower cocking ratios at 60°/s (ρ=-0.477, P=0.003). Decreased dominant ER, higher deficit of dominant eccentric ER peak torques, and higher dominant rotator fatigability correlate with previous shoulder pain/injury. Different adaptive changes (rotational mobility, SICK scapula signs, and glenohumeral muscular imbalance) are inter-related. As a form of both prevention and rehabilitation for the athletes at risk, we recommend individually adjusted shoulder training on the basis of clinical and isokinetic testing. 
Occupational injury among orthopaedic surgeons.	Orthopaedic surgery is a physically demanding profession that requires many hours per week in body positions known to contribute to musculoskeletal injury and pain. Injuries to surgeons can affect the delivery of care and impose costs on the health care system. The aim of this study was to determine the prevalence and types of injuries sustained at the workplace during the career of an orthopaedic surgeon as well as the impact of such injuries on practicing surgeons.
Shoulder injuries in golf]	Due to its growing popularity golf has now come into the focus of orthopedic sports medicine. With a wide range of age groups and playing levels, orthopedic surgeons will encounter a wide range of musculoskeletal problems which are usually the result of overuse rather than trauma.
Acute and overuse injuries of the shoulder in sports]	During sports the shoulder complex is exposed to considerable load especially where throwing is important and various pathological changes can occur. In the last two decades the shoulder in athletes has become a special term in clinical sports medicine
The throwing shoulder]	During the throwing motion high forces are placed on the athlete's shoulder and extreme positions of external rotation and abduction are reached. The dynamic and static stabilizers of the glenohumeral joint need to handle a delicate balance between shoulder mobility and stability.
Stability versus mobility of the shoulder. Biomechanical aspects in athletes]	The demand profile of athletes shoulders is high. On the one hand the shoulder has to provide a maximum active range of motion that allows rapid movements of the arm and on the other hand it has to be sufficiently stabilized to decelerate rapid movements and to neutralize the resulting translational forces. Two general types of instability can be differentiated in athletes shoulders: the macroinstability typically occurring in athletes involved in contact sports and the microinstability occurring in athletes involved in overhead sports.Repetitive abduction and external rotation movements of athletes involved in overhead sports lead to adaptation of the glenohumeral joint capsule and ligaments. The anterior capsule becomes stretched while the posterior capsule develops tightness. These adaptations can result in an anterior microinstability as well as posterosuperior impingement (PSI) which implicates a pathological contact of the posterosuperior rotator cuff with the posterior glenoid and which is also associated with SLAP lesions. In contrast the shoulders of swimmers are prone to anterosuperior impingement because the arm stroke involves a forceful combined anteflexion, adduction and internal rotation of the arm.The macroinstability of contact athletes is caused by sufficient trauma and characterized by a structural lesion of capsulolabral or bony lesion. While the empirical recurrence risk of young contact athletes is already high, it can be further impaired by bony defects of the glenoid. In suspected cases, critical glenoid defects should be quantified by computed tomography (CT) scans and treated by bony augmentation of the glenoid. 
The gymnastics shoulder]	Adult gymnasts show a high prevalence of various shoulder pathologies. Due to the specific equipment used in gymnastics and the high training schedule with weekly training times up to 32 h, the shoulders of gymnasts are mostly subjected to symmetrical bilateral weight bearing. This is in contrast to overhead throwing, racket and martial arts sport forms in which the load is mainly located on the dominant side.
Rehabilitation concepts and return to sport after interventions on the shoulder]	Rehabilitation of athletes following surgical interventions for shoulder injuries is of utmost importance for recovery and return to sport.
The diagnosis and nonoperative treatment of shoulder injuries in athletes.	The specific emphasis in this article has been directed toward the diagnosis of prevalent shoulder pathology in a young athletic population; however, as the interest in sports has blossomed in recent years now encompassing a larger age range, the physician must not neglect common pathologic conditions of the older athletes. Fastidious adherence to complete history, physical examination, and a high level of suspicion for uncommon disorders is paramount. Arthritides such as osteo, rheumatoid, septic, and lyme as well as the hematologic disorders of multiple myeloma, lymphomas, leukemia, hemophilia, and Gaucher's disease can all present with shoulder pain. Thoracic outlet syndrome, scalene syndrome, supra-scapular nerve syndrome, and quadrilateral space syndrome comprise a group of nerve compression syndromes that are becoming more apparent as our diagnostic skills improve. Yet, the most pervasive disorders in the young athlete are due to lack of shoulder stability. By understanding the delicate balance in normal shoulder between mobility and stability, the clinician is better able to conceptualize the etiology and progression of the problem, and design the optimal treatment program.
Arthrography of the post-traumatic knee, shoulder, and wrist. Current status and future trends.	The current status of arthrography of the wrist, knee, and shoulder has been discussed with particular emphasis given to those conditions seen in patients following acute or chronic trauma. Cross-sectional techniques that impact on the current usage of arthrography of these joints also were discussed. Wrist arthrography remains the standard procedure for the evaluation of ligamentous abnormalities about the wrist. MR imaging is unlikely to make a large impact in this area until improvements in technique and surface coil technology allow routine visualization of the very small, but important, interosseous ligaments. MR imaging of the knee will likely replace arthrography except in those cases in which cost considerations or availability prevent its implementation. MR imaging undoubtedly will continue to contribute to the evaluation of shoulder abnormalities, but whether or not it will completely replace standard arthrography and CT arthrography depends upon the results of future studies.
Shoulder pain and repetition strain injury to the supraspinatus muscle: etiology and manipulative treatment.	Chronic inflammation and degenerative tendonitis of the supraspinatus muscle is an important cause of intrinsic shoulder pain. Injury to this muscle is usually caused, not by a single event, but by slight to moderate trauma repeatedly to the same anatomic area. The term repetition strain injury is used to describe this form of microtrauma. Repetition strain injury of the supraspinatus muscle is not an isolated event, but rather a form of microtrauma that affects the entire shoulder girdle. This functional unit must be evaluated and considered in the treatment plan. The authors discuss the diagnosis of this pain syndrome, which is based on the patient's work history, motion and strength testing, and palpation for trigger points. They also provide instruction in treatment involving manipulation with functional and counterstrain techniques combined with home exercise and modification of work posture.
Value of ultrasonography in preoperative diagnosis of rotator cuff tears and postoperative follow-up.	Four hundred and six patients presenting with shoulder pain underwent bilateral shoulder ultrasonography. Rotator cuff lesions were diagnosed in 197 patients. In 155 of the 308 patients who had additional arthrographic examinations, the arthrogram documented rotator cuff tears. Sixty-eight patients underwent surgery. There was good correlation between the ultrasonographic and arthrographic findings as well as the surgical results, with a sensitivity of 91% for each examination technique. Thirty-six postoperative patients were studied ultrasonographically; a minor to marked increase in rotator cuff echogenicity was demonstrated in them all. Its high predictive value makes ultrasonography the method of choice in diagnosing rotator cuff tears. Based on the evaluation of particular criteria, rotator cuff tears (greater than 1 cm) are commonly documented by ultrasonography. Only in patients with indeterminate or negative ultrasonograms in whom there is a high index of clinical suspicion, should arthrography be performed as a complementary imaging test. In postoperative follow-up the degree of scar formation at the reinsertion of the tendon is adequately documented by ultrasonography.
The shoulder of the tennis player.	A depression of the exercised shoulder was found among highly trained tennis players, and in other athletes employing the overhand motion. This deformity is attributed to stretching of the shoulder elevating muscles, and to hypertrophy of the racket-holding extremity. Most symptoms in the shoulders studied were in the region of the rotator cuff, and occurred upon strokes requiring abduction. Shoulder dependency causes a relative abduction of the extremity, which may result in impingement of the rotator cuff. Shoulder droop may lead to thoracic outlet syndrome, and, in the athlete, may simulate scoliosis.
Acute recreational injuries.	The injuries which occur in recreation have the effect of eliminating participation for a period and also in many cases lead to a cessation of physical activity. The loss of well being as a result of idleness is a price that today's inactive world cannot afford to pay.
Athletes attending a sports injury clinic--a review.	In a prospective study over the two years 1981-1982, there were 1186 separate sporting injuries treated at a Sports Injury Clinic. Just over 75% of patients were aged between 16 and 25 years old, while 80% were male. Football, Rugby, Running, Squash and Rowing contributed over 70% of these injuries. The commonest injuries were to the lower limb and lumbar region. In 43% of knee injuries there was strain of the collateral ligaments, while another 26% had patello-femoral pain. Short distance running was associated with an increase in shin splints, tibial stress fractures and hamstring injuries. Long distance running was associated with an increase in ankle and foot injuries. Sports Injury Clinics can benefit the injured athlete and there appears to be a need for their development in major hospitals.
Surfboard-riding injuries.	The results of a study aimed at determining the nature, rate, and cause of traumatic surfing injuries by gathering injury data directly from surfers rather than by retrospective analysis of hospital or first-aid station records are reported. Three hundred and forty-six surfers of varying ages, experience, and competence reported 337 injuries sustained over a two-year period. The most common injuries requiring medical attention or resulting in inability to surf were lacerations (41%) and soft-tissue injuries (35%). The high incidence of back and shoulder sprains and strains has not previously been reported. As the rate of moderate and severe injuries among the sample was calculated to be 3.5 injuries per 1000 surfing days, and because more than 25% of the lacerations were caused by the sharp fin, or by the tail, or by the nose of the surfboard, some safety modifications in board design or structure may be necessary.
Wound botulism.	Wound botulism, a potentially fatal disease, presents with signs and symptoms of food-borne botulism without the gastrointestinal manifestations. All cases have been associated with extremity wounds. The diagnosis is clinical, and aggressive ventilatory support is the cornerstone of successful therapy. A case is reported and the pathophysiology, diagnosis, and treatment are reviewed.
Common injuries of the shoulder. Diagnosis and treatment.	Shoulder pain is often the presenting complaint of patients seeing their primary care physicians. Overuse and traumatic injuries make up most of the causes. A physical examination with minimal diagnostic tests can lead to the correct diagnosis in most cases. Most conditions can be treated conservatively (nonsurgically). Appropriate referral to a specialist depends on the severity of the initial injury or the patient's lack of response to conservative treatment (or both). We discuss common injuries of the shoulder, emphasizing a practical diagnostic and therapeutic approach.
Reconstruction of a devastating electric injury: case-report.	In the submitted case-report the authors describe a combination of a reconstruction operation with an orthopaedic approach to a devastating injury of the shoulder and elbow in a 26-year-old patient after an electric current injury. The total extent of the skin damage was 13% T.B.S.A. with localization on the right side of the chest, right arm, left elbow and shoulder. After fascial excisions the proximal part of the humerus was amputated with fixation by means of cerclage to the scapula. This defect was covered with the musculus latissimus dorsi flap and the defect on the elbow was covered by a tube pedicle flap.
A case of posthemorrhagic cyst]	A case of posthaemorrhagical cyst around the right armpit in 13 years old boy is presented. The cyst has been removed surgically after conservative measures had failed.
Rotator cuff ruptures with predominant involvement of the subscapular tendon]	Among the all rotator cuff tears, the subscapularis lesions are quite rare. But a careful analysis leads to recognize them specially in case of antero-medial impingement between the coracoid process and the head of the humerus. This study of 25 observations where the rupture of the subscapularis was the predominant lesion, allows to emphasize some characteristics of them. The patients are often younger than for the other ruptures, a traumatic experience is not rare at the beginning of the history, the pain is usually the first symptom before the functional disability, the alterations of the rotator-interval and of the biceps tendon are very frequent, the arthroscanner is a very good help for the diagnosis and satisfying stitches are possible in case of early diagnoses. Lastly, the prognosis of these limited lesions is quite different than the one of very large cuff tears including the suscapularis tendon.
Common rugby league injuries. Recommendations for treatment and preventative measures.	Rugby league is the main professional team sport played in Eastern Australia. It is also very popular at a junior and amateur level. However, injuries are common because of the amount of body contact that occurs and the amount of running that is required to participate in the game. Injuries to the lower limbs account for over 50% of all injuries. The most common specific injuries are ankle lateral ligament tears, knee medial collateral and anterior cruciate ligament tears, groin musculotendinous tears, hamstring and calf muscle tears, and quadriceps muscle contusions. Head injuries are common and consist of varying degrees of concussion as well as lacerations and facial fractures. Serious head injury is rare. Some of the more common upper limb injuries are to the acromioclavicular and glenohumeral joints. Accurate diagnosis of these common injuries using appropriate history, examination and investigations is critical in organising a treatment and rehabilitation plan that will return the player to competition as soon as possible. An understanding of the mechanism of injury is also important in order to develop preventative strategies.
A modified Desault bandage for fixation of the proximal humerus]	The authors present a variant of Desault's bandage for fixation of conservatively treated injuries of the proximal end of the humerus and for fixation of the upper extremity after surgery in this area. The bandage is made with elastic net bandage (called pruban), it is sufficiently strong and its application is easier and less time consuming.
The importance of medical history taking in diagnosis of shoulder arthropathy]	The data collected at taking medical history were analyzed on the basis of clinical, radiographic and sonographic differential diagnosis in shoulder pathology. Material included 236 patients. Hedtmann and Fett classification has used. Age of the patient, duration of the condition and its relation to the trauma in a broad meaning are of paramount importance. The authors recommend sonographic examination in all cases of shoulder contusion with no bony abnormalities on radiographs and in all cases of anterior shoulder dislocation in order to assess rotator cuff condition.
Sonography of the biceps tendon]	641 patients who had undergone ultrasonic investigation of the shoulder joint were reviewed retrospectively. Thirty-four cases (5.3%) with sonographic abnormalities of the biceps tendon or the soft tissue surrounding the biceps tendon were found. In 15 cases a synovitis or effusion of the bicipital (convexity of the transverse ligament) groove was found. Four times a mineralization of the transverse ligament (high echogenic zone with interruption of the humerus coticalis) was observed. In 10 cases rupture of the tendon (sagging of the transverse ligament) was diagnosed. One case was diagnosed as a subluxated biceps tendon (tendon riding on the lesser tubercle) and was misdiagnosed. Four cases with cysts of the biceps tendon were seen (well defined zone of low echogenity). Seven patients underwent surgery following unsuccessful conservative treatment and in all cases but one the ultrasonic diagnosis was confirmed. According to the experience of this investigation ultrasonic examination of the biceps tendon turned out to be an ideal imaging technique for screening of lesions of the long head of the biceps.
Common sports injuries in young tennis players.	Tennis is a popular racquet sport played by boys, girls, men and women. Tennis players frequently begin playing in childhood and may continue playing into late adulthood. Preadolescent and adolescent players have open growth plates and a reduced muscle power, lower level of coordination and smaller stature compared with adult players. The physical characteristics of the young tennis player mean that unique demands are placed on the developing athlete which can, in turn, be associated with different types and patterns of injury. The most common types of injury in tennis players of all ages are muscle sprains and ligament sprains secondary to overuse. These are a particular problem in the adolescent age group because, in general, this group begin playing with a lower level of physical conditioning. Fortunately, injuries in younger players are usually not longstanding and the overuse (chronic) problems seen in older players, such as patellar tendinosis and tennis elbow, are less common in younger players. Anatomically, lower extremity injuries are twice as common as those to the upper extremity or spine, with ankle injury being the most common. Prevention of injury in young tennis players, or at least a reduction in the incidence, is possible. Some traumatic injuries, including contusions, abrasions, lacerations and fractures, may be unavoidable as a result of aggressive play, but others may be prevented by monitoring equipment and the court surface to ensure a safe field of play. The prime target of prevention in young tennis players should be overuse injuries. The principles of 'overload' and staged involvement are of particular importance in this age group. A gradual, progressive increase in the intensity of tennis practice, the slow introduction of new court surfaces and a staged progression in the teaching of tennis skills can help to reduce the incidence of injury in young tennis players.
Clinical examination of the shoulder]	The shoulder examination technique as described by the authors helps to come to the diagnosis mostly without the help of apparative techniques. The described examination techniques are well established and have been used successfully by the authors.
Axillary nerve injuries in contact sports: recommendations for treatment and rehabilitation.	Axillary nerve injuries are some of the most common peripheral nerve injuries in athletes who participate in contact sports. Resulting deltoid muscle paralysis is secondary to nerve trauma which occurs following shoulder dislocation or a direct blow to the deltoid muscle. Compression neuropathy has been reported to occur in quadrilateral space syndrome as the axillary nerve exits this anatomic compartment. The axillary nerve is also extremely vulnerable during any operative procedure involving the inferior aspect of the shoulder, and iatrogenic injury to the axillary nerve remains a serious complication of shoulder surgery. Accurate diagnosis of axillary nerve injury is based on a careful history and physical examination as well as an understanding of the anatomy of the shoulder and the axillary nerve in particular. Inspection, palpation and neurological testing provide the bases for diagnosis. A clinically suspected axillary nerve injury should be confirmed by electrophysiological testing, including electromyography and nerve conduction studies. During the acute phase of injury, the athlete should be rested and any ligamentous or bony injury should be treated as indicated. Patients should undergo an extensive rehabilitation programme emphasising active and passive range of motion as well as strengthening of the rotator cuff, deltoid and periscapular musculature. Shoulder joint contracture should be avoided at all costs as a loss of shoulder mobility may ultimately affect functional outcome despite a return of axillary nerve function. If no axillary nerve recovery is observed by 3 to 4 months following injury, surgical exploration is indicated. Athletes who sustain injury to the axillary nerve have a variable prognosis for nerve recovery, although the return of function of the involved shoulder is typically good to excellent. We recommend that athletes who sustain axillary nerve injury may return to contact sport participation when they achieve full active range of motion of the shoulder and when shoulder strength is documented to be good to excellent by isometric or manual muscle testing.
