The parachute technique: valgus impaction osteotomy for two-part fractures of the surgical neck of the humerus.	Fourteen elderly patients with a two-part fracture, in osteopenic bone, of the surgical neck of the humerus were treated with a valgus impaction osteotomy and tension band fixation--that is, the parachute technique. Thirteen patients were followed, and all were able to perform activities of daily living without difficulty and were satisfied with the result of the surgery. The average age of these thirteen patients was sixty-eight years, and the average duration of follow-up was 18.5 months. Union was achieved in all patients, at an average of 45.5 days. No patient demonstrated osteonecrosis of the humeral head. This technique of valgus impaction osteotomy with Dacron-tape tension band fixation leads to rapid union. Patient satisfaction and function were excellent.
Percutaneous pinning of the proximal part of the humerus. An anatomic study.	Closed reduction and percutaneous pinning of unstable proximal humeral fractures is a well-described technique with some theoretical advantages over open techniques. To our knowledge, the risk of injury to neurovascular structures from percutaneous pinning of the proximal part of the humerus has not been studied. We sought to quantify this risk using a cadaveric model.
Drill wire osteosynthesis in subcapital humerus fractures: percutaneous or open procedure?]	Between 1978 and mid-1990, 135 patients suffering from dislocated, non-luxated fracture of the humerus at the anatomical neck (fractura colli anatomici) were treated by means of open or closed percutaneous drill wire osteosynthesis. Follow-up examination after an average of 9 months did not show any significant differences between the two surgical approaches in 117 patients, independent of the shape of the fracture. However, in about 30% of the cases it was impossible to employ the percutaneous approach due to the presence of an obstacle to reduction, so that open reduction and fixation was the only choice. A great majority of the functional results must be considered as good, fractures of the tubercles having the most unfavourable prognosis independent of the surgical technique. It is, therefore, recommended to first try closed reduction with percutaneous drill wire osteosynthesis. If there are any obstacles to reduction, open reduction should be restored to during the surgery session.
Helix wire osteosynthesis for proximal humeral fractures: unacceptable nonunion rate in two- and three-part fractures.	Fractures of the proximal humerus are very common, but controversy still exists about the preferred type of operative treatment in displaced fractures.
Outcome after primary hemiarthroplasty for fracture of the head of the humerus. A retrospective multicentre study of 167 patients.	We have examined 167 patients who had a hemiarthroplasty for three- and four-part fractures and fracture-dislocations of the head of the humerus in a multicentre study involving 12 Austrian hospitals. All patients were followed for more than a year. Anatomical healing of the tuberosity significantly influenced the outcome as measured by the Constant score and subjective patient satisfaction. With regard to pain, the outcome was generally satisfactory but only 41.9% of patients were able to flex the shoulder above 90 degrees. The age of the patient and the type of prosthesis significantly influenced the healing of the tuberosity, but bone grafting did not. Achievement of healing of the tuberosity was inferior in institutions at which less than 15 hemiarthroplasties had been performed (Mann-Witney U test, p = 0.0001).
Arthroscopic treatment for greater tuberosity fractures: rationale and surgical technique.	A description of a new technique for arthroscopic treatment of minimally displaced greater tuberosity fractures of the humerus and associated soft tissue lesions is presented. This kind of fracture is usually treated nonsurgically. However, recent evidence suggests that even a small amount of superior displacement may produce shoulder dysfunction and require a perfect surgical reduction and fixation. Moreover, any displaced fracture of the greater tuberosity presents a high rate of associated and largely undetected soft tissue lesions. To avoid underestimating accompanying soft tissue pathology, arthroscopic assessment before open treatment of greater tuberosity fractures has been suggested. In 2 earlier case reports, we described the use of an arthroscope not only to diagnose and treat a rotator cuff tear and a Bankart lesion associated with a minimally displaced greater tuberosity fracture but also to arthroscopically reduce and treat the fracture. With advancements in arthroscopy and equipment, we refined and systematized the original arthroscopic technique that we have routinely used since 1997. This article presents the new technique.
Valgus impacted proximal humeral fractures and their blood supply after transosseous suturing.	We treated 16 patients (11 women and five men, average age 45 years), all having four-part valgus impacted fractures of the proximal humerus, with transosseous suturing. All had preoperative angiography performed 6-12 h after admission. The average impaction angle was 43 degrees , and the mean lateral displacement of the humeral head was 1.4 mm. Postoperative angiography was performed 8-10 weeks after the operation followed by digital image processing using the segmentation technique. No statistically important reduction in the length and area of large (>0.5 mm) vessels was seen. Union was confirmed by the reduction in the length and area of small vessels (<0.5 mm). At a mean follow-up of 40 months, avascular necrosis was only found in one patient. The average Constant-Murley score was 87 (67-100) points, whereas the functional score in comparison with the unaffected shoulder was 94% (89-100%). Despite the small number of patients, transosseous fixation seems to preserve the remaining blood supply of the humeral head.
Early experience with computer-assisted shoulder hemiarthroplasty for fractures of the proximal humerus: development of a novel technique and an in vitro comparison with traditional methods.	A computer-assisted technique was developed for treatment of 4-part proximal humeral fractures via a hemiarthroplasty and tuberosity fixation. This was compared with a standard traditional method in 7 pairs of cadaveric shoulders. The computer-assisted technique used preoperative computed tomography data and computer simulations of anatomic characteristics of the contralateral humerus. This allowed accurate anatomic reconstruction by use of an electromagnetic tracking system and real-time intraoperative feedback. Various anatomic measurements were used to quantify the accuracy of the reconstruction. The differences between the intact and reconstructed values were improved with the computer-assisted technique for 5 of 7 characteristics. However, this was statistically significant only for humeral head offset (P < .05). With further investigation and refinement, this technique should allow for a more anatomic reconstruction of the proximal humerus, potentially resulting in improved patient outcomes. The technique may also prove to be a valuable resource for the laboratory training of inexperienced surgical trainees.
Arthroscopic treatment of shoulder fractures]	Therapeutic options for shoulder joint fractures include conservative treatment or surgery, but indications for either treatment remain vague. Arthroscopic treatment of glenoid fractures and greater tuberosity fractures represents an alternative and allows anatomical reduction and reliable fixation with decreased soft tissue trauma. With this minimally invasive technique, large muscular dissections are avoided and postoperative recovery is shortened. This technique also allows a complete joint inspection and a more accurate diagnosis for associated injuries than conventional imaging methods. Arthroscopy is a useful diagnostic tool that may avoid underestimation of these associated injuries (labrum, rotator cuff tendons, cartilage) and is also helpful for treating these lesions in the same time. However, arthroscopic treatment of shoulder fractures needs a leaming curve depending on surgeon's experience in shoulder arthroscopy. At present, indications for arthroscopic treatment of shoulder fractures are limited to anterior or posterior glenoid rim fractures and some greater tuberosity fractures. This selection is best made using preoperative computed tomography and especially 2D reconstruction.
The difficult proximal humerus fracture: tips and techniques to avoid complications and improve results.	The indications and techniques for surgical management of fractures of the proximal humerus remain controversial, and the results of treatment are often disappointing, with a relatively high complication rate. Anatomic reduction can be difficult, and loss of fixation because of poor bone quality may lead to fracture displacement and malunion. Hemiarthroplasty has a high rate of shoulder stiffness, tuberosity resorption, and glenohumeral instability. There is a wide variety of surgical techniques and implants to treat these fractures, but there is little guidance in the literature on specific indications for their use. Therefore, it is important for orthopaedic surgeons to be familiar with techniques to avoid complications and improve results when treating proximal humerus fractures.
Antegrade nailing of humeral head fractures with captured interlocking screws.	To assess the functional outcome after treatment of proximal humeral fractures with a new antegrade nail that provides angular and sliding stability. INTERVENTION/PATIENTS: Ninety-seven patients were treated during a 4-year period between April 2000 and March 2004. All patients were followed for 6 months, 51 patients (53%) for 12 months, and 31 patients (32%) for 24 months. This study focuses mainly on the patients with a follow up of 1 year. Their mean age was 68 years (range: 33 to 90); 22% were more than 80 years of age.
Arthroscopic removal of proximal humerus locking plates.	A technique of removing proximal humerus locking plates using an arthroscopic technique is described. Though technically demanding, benefits include smaller incisions, decreased risk of infection, and the ability to visualize and protect the axillary nerve throughout the course of the procedure. Furthermore, arthroscopy affords the surgeon with the ability to address concomitant intraarticular pathology at the time of surgery.
Risk of axillary nerve injury during percutaneous proximal humerus locking plate insertion using an external aiming guide.	The purpose of this study was to determine which screws could be safely inserted percutaneously into a proximal humerus locking plate using a new external aiming guide without injuring the axillary nerve. We also sought to evaluate that all the screws could be accurately inserted ina locked position with the external guide.
Proximal humeral fracture fixation: locking plate construct ± intramedullary fibular allograft.	Locking plate constructs for proximal humeral fractures can fail due to varus collapse, especially in osteoporotic bone with medial cortex comminution. Augmentation, using a fibular allograft as an intramedullary bone peg, may strengthen fixation preventing varus collapse. This study investigated the ability of the augmented locking plate construct to withstand repetitive varus stresses relative to the nonaugmented construct.
The Humerusblock NG: a new concept for stabilization of proximal humeral fractures and its biomechanical evaluation.	The Humerusblock NG represents a new semi-rigid angular stable fixation device for minimally invasive stabilization of proximal humeral fractures. This study evaluates the function and stability of the Humerusblock NG and its biomechanical properties on the basis of two different fracture models under cyclic loading.
Minimally invasive plate osteosynthesis (MIPO) in diaphyseal humerus and proximal humerus fractures.	Our aim was to evaluate the results of minimally invasive plate osteosynthesis (MIPO) using locking plates in diaphyseal humerus and proximal humerus fractures.
A pulled sutures technique for bony Bankart lesion.	In an attempt to present a new surgical technique for arthroscopic bony Bankart fixation, the authors developed the pulled sutures technique. In executing the new method, the authors first passed several non-absorbable sutures through labroligamentous tissue with displaced articular fragment by mimicking transglenoid suture technique. Aimed at achieving a safe and stable fixation, using a knotless anchor rather than transglenoid suture, was deployed. Overall, this pulled sutures technique was shown to be effective with the result of direct reduction, stable, and safe fixation for bony Bankart's lesion. 
Incidence and risk factors for acute infection after proximal humeral fractures: a multicenter study.	The rate of acute infection after surgery for proximal humeral fractures is not known. The aims of this study were to report the incidence and to analyze the risk factors for infection after proximal humeral fracture treatment.
Reverse shoulder arthroplasty for acute proximal humerus fractures: a systematic review.	Proximal humerus fractures are one of the most common fractures among elderly patients. We performed a systematic review to detail the demographics, outcomes, and complications of patients who undergo reverse shoulder arthroplasty for complex proximal humerus fractures.
Compound fractures of the proximal humerus]	This paper stresses the importance of considering reconstructive measures when dealing with complex fractures, including fracture dislocations of the proximal humerus. Mainly, we try to use "biological" techniques with minimal exploration and internal fixation for stabilization. Indications for internal fixation are compared with prosthetic replacement and primary fusion.
Replacement of the head of the humerus as a rescue operation following dislocated compound fractures of the shoulder joint]	Results after conservative or surgical treatment of comminuted fractures of the head of the humerus are often unsatisfactory and complicated by pain and a severely decreased range of motion. In these patients good results have been obtained by replacement of the humeral head with the Isoelastic Humeral Head Prosthesis. Fourteen cases are reported and their results discussed.
The anterior acromial approach for antegrade intramedullary nailing of the humeral diaphysis.	At three institutions, 71 humeral intramedullary nails were inserted into the shoulder; 67 were reviewed at 6 months and at completion of treatment. Fifty-one utilized the anterior acromial approach and 16 were inserted lateral to the acromion. Shoulder motion was rated as: excellent (asymptomatic and within 15 degrees of normal); good (normal daily function within normal motion); and poor. Nails were also inserted into the humeral diaphysis of eight cadaver shoulders. Fifty-one nails were inserted via the anterior acromial incision; 48 were graded as excellent, one as good, and two with traumatic axillary neuropathy and reflex sympathetic dystrophy as poor: Sixteen nails were inserted lateral to the acromion; 8 were rated, 7 good, and 1 poor. Motion returned in an average of 17 weeks (range:0-29). The greatest clinical concern is not ultimate shoulder function, but the rate of return. The authors conclude that either the anterior acromial approach or an extraarticular entry portal must be utilized for antegrade humeral diaphyseal nailing.
Four-part displaced proximal humeral fractures: operative treatment using Kirschner wires and a tension band.	Thirty-five patients with four-part displaced proximal humeral fractures and fracture-dislocations were retrospectively reviewed from the years 1977-1990. Thirty-three patients were available for study. All fractures were treated by open reduction and internal fixation allowing early motion. Surgical technique was as atraumatic as possible with the goal of restoring normal anatomy of the proximal humerus with a minimal fixation system. The fixation device consisted of two modified Kirschner wires introduced through the tuberosities and reinforced by a tension band wiring. Neer's criteria were used to evaluate results. With a mean follow-up of 7 years, results were excellent and satisfactory in 21 cases, nonsatisfactory in 10, and poor in two. The most common complication was avascular necrosis (nine patients). All cases of fracture-dislocations corresponded with the nonsatisfactory and poor results. Because of our results, we conclude that in four-part displaced fractures, open reduction and internal fixation with our system of osteosynthesis should be indicated initially. Prosthetic replacement should be considered as primary treatment in cases with marked comminution of the humeral head, in fracture-dislocations, and in patients > 75 years of age.
Brown-Sequard syndrome caused by a Kirschner wire as a complication of clavicular osteosynthesis.	A case of spinal cord injury caused by delayed migration of a Kirschner wire is reported. Some cases of distant injuries caused by bone wires, and acupuncture needles have been published, but this is the first reported case of delayed thoracic spinal cord damage caused by the migration of a clavicular wire. A 22-year-old male patient was admitted with a clinical picture of spinal shock after performing physiotherapeutic exercises. Two months prior to this, the patient had undergone surgical treatment for a clavicular fracture in a different clinical center. Imaging showed a clavicular wire had migrated into the spinal canal. An early prescription of a spinal cord methyl-prednisolone protective treatment (NASCIS II), the surgical extraction of the foreign body and the rehabilitation exercises were the keys to a quick recovery.
