Differential enhancing effects of alpha2,8-sialyltransferase on the cell proliferation and mobility.	alpha2,8-Sialyltransferase (alpha2,8S-T, GD3 synthase) has been reported to be involved in the enhanced cell proliferation of malignant tumors. Using a cloned cDNA of alpha2,8S-T, transfectant cells were established and the effects of the gene expression on the cell phenotypes were analyzed. In contrast with PC12 cells, in which we reported marked growth enhancement based on the transfection of alpha2,8S-T, Swiss3T3 cells showed no enhancement in either cell proliferation or phosphorylation of MAP kinases after the transfection of alpha2,8S-T when treated with platelet-derived growth factor. Correspondingly, the receptor for platelet-derived growth factor also showed no increased phosphorylation upon the factor stimulation. However, in the wound-healing scratching assay, the Swiss3T3 transfectant cells demonstrated increased mobility as the PC12 transfectant cells. These results suggest that the enhancing effects of alpha2,8S-T on the proliferation and mobility are differential depending on the cell types, and ganglioside-associating molecules in the individual cell types need to be investigated.
Structure of the carbohydrate moiety of human interferon-beta secreted by a recombinant Chinese hamster ovary cell line.	The carbohydrate structure of the major oligosaccharide of human interferon-beta (IFN-beta) synthesized by a genetically engineered Chinese hamster ovary cell line has been determined. Analysis of the glycopeptidase F-released carbohydrates by sequential exoglycosidase treatment, methylation analysis, and fast atom bombardment-mass spectrometry revealed that 95% of the IFN-beta oligosaccharides had the following structure: (Formula: see text). The remaining 5% of the carbohydrates are probably tri- or higher antennary oligosaccharide chains. The major oligosaccharide of the recombinant IFN-beta is remarkably homogeneous with respect to terminal galactose sialylation. NeuAc, which is alpha 2-3-linked to galactose in the human IFN-beta secreted by Chinese hamster ovary cells, can be re-incorporated with an alpha 2-6 linkage in vitro, into enzymatically desialylated IFN-beta using rat liver Gal beta 1-4GlcNAc alpha 2-6 sialyltransferase. The sugar chain is important for maintaining protein solubility as shown by the fact that IFN-beta protein precipitates after deglycosylation with glycopeptidase F.
