Four-duct ligation: a simple and effective treatment for chronic aspiration from sialorrhea.	To determine the effectiveness of bilateral submandibular and parotid duct ligation on children with severe neuromuscular impairment and chronic aspiration of salivary secretions and to identify any predictable anatomical connections between the submandibular duct and sublingual glands.
Surgical management of drooling. Case report.	Drooling occurs when excessive quantities of saliva dribble from the opened mouth. This distressing condition affects many mentally handicapped patients who are unable to effectively clear their normal salivary flow by swallowing. Any method employed for the control of drooling must still allow a sufficient volume of flow for mastication, deglutition and oral hygiene. Surgery is generally indicated for marked or severe cases of drooling and Wilkie's operation involving redirection of the parotid flow into the oropharynx is the most commonly performed surgical procedure. This operation may be combined with bilateral removal of the submandibular salivary glands if the problem is severe.
The drooling patient: evaluation and current surgical options.	Drooling is a common stigmatizing problem necessitating increased care in the neurologically damaged child or adult. Appropriate physiotherapy frequently reduces drooling but rarely eliminates it. The goal of surgical therapy is to minimize drooling while specifically avoiding the complication of xerostomia. During the past 4 years, 37 of 46 patients assessed have undergone surgery specifically intended to reduce drooling. Good results have been obtained with bilateral transtympanic neurectomy procedures; it is the surgical procedure of choice in the more retarded patient. Encouraging results have been obtained in six patients with bilateral submandibular duct relocation; because of increased operative morbidity, it is the procedure of choice in the less retarded child.
Use of intraoperative ultrasonography in six horses.	Intraoperative ultrasonography was used in six horses to aid localization and removal of bone fragments (3 horses) and foreign bodies (3 horses). The ultrasound transducer was enclosed in a sterile sleeve containing sterile aqueous gel and the examination was performed after aseptic preparation of the surgical site. Using ultrasound guidance a needle was placed in contact with the bone fragment or foreign body and an incision was made along the path of the needle to expose and remove the object. This technique resulted in decreased operative time and minimal tissue dissection.
Persistent drooling: treatment by bilateral submandibular duct transposition and simultaneous sublingual gland excision.	Persistent drooling in a neurologically impaired patient is often multifactorial and various treatment modalities have been employed to overcome this distressing condition. This study analysed the outcome after bilateral submandibular duct transposition and simultaneous sublingual gland excision in 20 patients with persistent drooling treated between January 1989 and July 1994. Twelve were male and eight were female and were aged 5 years to 40 years. The outcome was considered much better/excellent in 11 cases (55%), better/good in eight cases (40%), no significant improvement in one case (5%) and none were considered worse after the procedure, in the 'early' postoperative period. Long-term results, judged by an 18-point questionnaire sent to the carers after an average duration of 3.2 years post-operatively, were available for 19 patients. In all, 16 carers (84%) felt the drooling had significantly reduced, and three carers (16%) felt that there was no improvement. The three patients who were considered not to have improved were all found to have made a 'good' improvement in the early post-operative period. The morbidity associated with the procedure was of a mild and transient nature and there was a complete absence of ranula formation in our series. The procedure was well accepted by the carers, who were also willing to recommend the procedure to others with a similar problem.
