An otherwise typical case of non-Japanese hairy cell leukemia with CD10 and CDw75 expression: response to cladaribine phosphate therapy.	Hairy cell leukemia (HCL) in Western patients typically expresses CD19, CD20, CD11c, CD25, HLA-DR, and IgG/lambda and lacks expression of CD5 and CD10. The immunophenotype is in contrast to Japanese HCL which typically expresses CD5 and CD10. Western and Japanese HCL also differ in their clinical presentation and response to treatment with alpha-interferon. We report a case of non-Japanese HCL which presented typically with pancytopenia; however, the immunophenotype was atypical with expression of CD10 and CDw75. CDw75 expression has not previously been described in either Japanese or non-Japanese HCL. The patient achieved a marked partial pathologic response and complete clinical response to treatment with cladaribine phosphate.
Over-expression of anti-CD75 reactive proteins on distal and collecting renal tubular epithelial cells in calcium-oxalate stone-forming kidneys in Egypt.	To assess the nature, distribution and expression pattern of CD75, a neuraminidase-sensitive lymphocyte cell surface differentiation antigen, in calcium oxalate (CaOx) stone disease, as cell-surface sialic acid might be involved CaOx crystal binding, and lectin-binding assays suggest that sialic acid in the alpha2,6 position is upregulated in stone-forming kidneys.
Tumor-associated CD75s gangliosides and CD75s-bearing glycoproteins with Neu5Acalpha2-6Galbeta1-4GlcNAc-residues are receptors for the anticancer drug rViscumin.	The anticancer drug rViscumin, currently under clinical development, has been shown in previous studies to be a sialic acid specific ribosome inactivating protein (RIP). Comparative binding assays with the CD75s-specific monoclonal antibodies HB6 and J3-89 revealed rViscumin to be a CD75s-specific RIP due to identical binding characteristics toward CD75s gangliosides. The receptor gangliosides are IV6nLc4Cer, VI6nLc6Cer, and the newly characterized ganglioside VIII6nLc8Cer, all three carrying the Neu5Acalpha2-6Galbeta1-4GlcNAc motif. To elucidate the clinical potential of the rViscumin targets, CD75s gangliosides were determined in several randomly collected gastrointestinal tumors. The majority of the tumors showed an enhanced expression of CD75s gangliosides compared with the unaffected tissues. The rViscumin binding specificity was further investigated with reference glycoproteins carrying sialylated and desialylated type II N-glycans. Comparative Western blots of rViscumin and ricin, an rViscumin homologous but galactoside-specific RIP, revealed specific recognition of type II N-glycans with CD75s determinants by rViscumin, whereas ricin failed to react with terminally sialylated oligosaccharides such as CD75s motifs and others. This strict binding specificity of rViscumin and the increased expression of CD75s gangliosides in various tumors suggest this anticancer drug as a promising candidate for an individualised adjuvant therapy of human tumors.
The influence of the In(Lu) gene on expression of CDw75 antigens on human red blood cells.	The influence of the In(Lu) gene on human red blood cell (RBC) expression of CDw75 antigens was examined. CDw75 antigens were increased in expression on Lu(a-b-) cells of the dominant inhibitor type in comparison with red cells from donors of other Lutheran (Lu) phenotypes. In contrast, CD44 epitopes detected with F10-44-2, A3D8 and BU52 monoclonal antibodies (mAb) were decreased in expression on Lu(a-b-) red cells. Among normal blood donors of the common phenotype Lu(a-b+) there was a wide range of expression of CDw75 antigens on red cells. The results show that CDw75 is a quantitative polymorphism of human red cells and, among antigens influenced by the In(Lu) gene, is unique in being up-regulated in expression.
Characteristics of two CD75-related cell-surface expressed antigens of human lymphocytes.	The structure of cell surface carbohydrates expressed on human leukocytes is dependent on the cell's developmental stage, differentiation, and activation. Although modification of oligosaccharide side chains by sialylation is quite common, antigenic determinants on lymphocytes associated with the presence of sialoglycans are still incompletely defined. In the study presented here, monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) were used to characterize two novel but related cell surface carbohydrate antigens. One antigen, denominated as B8, is largely masked by sialyl residues on most lymphocytes, while it is detectable on the majority of B cells. Treatment with sialidase resulted in the exposure of B8 on the surface of blood cells including lymphocytes. Although the second carbohydrate antigen, C1, was sialidase-sensitive, its molecular properties and cellular distribution place it in close vicinity to B8. B8(+) as well as C1(+) lymphocytes were found predominantly in the mantle zone of secondary follicles of tonsillar tissue. These findings raised the possibility that B8 and C1 are closely related to a category of carbohydrate antigens previously classified as CDw76 (recently assigned to CD75s). MAbs directed against B8 or C1 precipitated 34, 37, 43, and 200kDa glycoproteins from tonsillar lymphocytes, indicating that identical cell surface proteins are associated with both antigens. In contrast to B8, however, the expression of C1 was increased on lymphocytes upon activation. Together the results suggest that CD75-related epitopes are distinct molecular entities which may be exposed on glycoproteins and are differently expressed on lymphocytes.
Cell surface sialic acid influences tumor cell recognition in the mixed lymphocyte reaction.	The Ia+ B cell lymphoma, AKTB-1b, fails to stimulate thymic lymphocytes in a one-way mixed lymphocyte reaction unless pretreated with sialidase or inhibitors of N-linked oligosaccharide processing. A comparison of different sialidases and sialyltransferases suggests that the removal of only a subset of total surface sialic acid, rather than net desialylation of the cell surface, is required. Three sialidases were compared, including Vibrio cholerae (VC) and Clostridium perfringens (CP), which will cleave alpha 2-3, alpha 2-6, and alpha 2-8, sialic acid linkages, and Newcastle Disease virus (NDV), which will remove only alpha 2-3 and alpha 2-8 linked sialic acid. When treated with equivalent units of sialidase, CP-, VC-, and NDV-treated cells were 24-fold, sixfold, and threefold better stimulators than untreated cells. In contrast, VC released 1.3-fold and 2.5-fold more sialic acid per cell than did CP or NDV, respectively. Furthermore, VC was superior in reducing the levels of binding of the sialic acid-specific lectin, Limulus polyphemus agglutinin, in exposing Gal beta 1-3GalNAc and Gal beta 1-4GlcNAc residues, and in desialylating gangliosides. Two-dimensional gel analysis indicated that VC and CP were both equal and superior to NDV in the desialylation of iodinatable cell-surface proteins, including H-2Kk, I-A beta k, and a highly sialylated 65,000 dalton protein of unknown identity. Maximal resialylation of CP-treated cells with exogenously added CMP-NANA and either the alpha 2-3(Gal beta 1-3GalNAc) or alpha 2-6(Gal beta 1-4GlcNAc) sialyltransferase did not reduce the stimulatory capacity of these cells. However, resialylation of VC-treated cells with just CMP-NANA alone resulted in 49% reversal of their stimulatory capacity, and no additional reversal could be achieved with either of the sialyltransferases. Although the alpha 2-6(Gal beta 1-4GlcNAc) sialyltransferase was capable of adding back approximately 10% of the sialic acid removed, the endogenous activity added back approximately 0.1% of the total sialic acid removed. SDS-PAGE gels of the sialylated cells indicated that the exogenously added sialyltransferase labeled many different proteins, whereas the endogenous activity labeled far fewer proteins, predominantly in 46,000 and 25,000 m.w. range. Both the desialylation and resialylation data suggest that the sialidase-dependent stimulation is due to the desialylation of specific membrane structures. Together with previous studies, these data suggest that the sialic acids involved are probably alpha 2-6 linked to N-linked glycosyl moieties.
