Amiodarone-induced bilateral optic atrophy--a case report]	We report a case of visual loss and bilateral papilloedema under therapy with the antiarrhythmic substance amiodarone, which is used in treatment of refractory and life-threatening supraventricular and ventricular cardial tachyarrhythmias. After excluding intracranial hypertension, local tumors and an inflammatory genesis we consider this case to be an amiodarone-induced toxic opticusneuropathy. Amiodarone, a diiodated benzofuran derivative, is a cationic amphiphilic drug, which is able to cause ceratopathy and neuropathy. The rarely described and less known opticusneuropathy caused problems in differential diagnosis. A brief review about current knowledge of pathophysiology, differential diagnosis and course of illness is presented.
Electrophysiological properties of isradipine (PN200-110) in humans.	Isradipine (PN 200-110) is a new dihydropyridine calcium-entry blocker with powerful vasodilating properties. Therapeutic concentrations do not affect myocardial contractility. However, in vitro studies have demonstrated at higher concentrations negative chronotropic action with only minor dromotropic influence. For this reason we studied the effect of intravenous isradipine (0.3 microgram/kg/min during 30 min) on sinus node and atrioventricular (AV) nodal function in 25 patients. Nine of these patients had normal sinus node function (group I), nine patients were treated with a beta blocker (group II), and seven patients had a sick sinus syndrome (group III). Mean supine arterial blood pressure decreased in all groups; however, in group I not significantly. Spontaneous sinus cycle length decreased significantly in all groups. In none of the patients effective refractory periods of atrium or ventricle were depressed. QRS duration was not significantly affected in any of the groups. There was only a slight, but significant, prolongation of the QTc of maximal 4% (except in group III). We concluded that isradipine has no depressant effect on sinus and AV nodal function in humans, not even in the presence of beta blockade or impaired sinus node function.
Effect of nifedipine on sinus node and atrioventricular node function following autonomic blockade in the human]	The effect of intravenously administered nifedipine (7.5 micrograms/kg) on sinus node and atrioventricular (AV) node function was evaluated in 17 patients, 9 of whom had sinus node disease after autonomic blockade (propranolol 0.2 mg/kg and atropine 0.04 mg/kg i.v.). The patients' ages ranged from 18 to 77 years. After nifedipine there was a nonsignificant increase in the median values for sinus cycle length from 750 ms to 760 ms, for sinus node recovery time from 1150 ms to 1240 ms, for corrected sinus node recovery time from 440 ms to 460 ms, and for sinoatrial conduction time from 63 ms to 75 ms. Nevertheless, nifedipine produced a significant increase in the AV node refractory periods (median values): the effective refractory period lengthened from 300 ms to 305 ms (rate 100/min) and from 290 ms to 300 ms (rate 120/min) respectively. The functional refractory period increased from 380 ms to 400 ms (rate 100/min) and from 385 ms to 410 ms (rate 120/min) respectively. The Wenckebach period was significantly prolonged from 370 ms to 390 ms. We conclude, therefore, that in the absence of autonomic control intravenous administration of nifedipine exerts a mild depressive effect on AV node but not on sinus node function.
Mexiletine: electrophysiologic effects]	A complete electrophysiological evaluation has been performed before and after the intravenous administration of Mexiletine (M.) (3 mg/Kg/B.W. in 5 minutes) in 28 patients (pts) (6 pts with normal conduction system, 4 pts with sick sinus syndrome, 5 pts with intranodal AV block, 13 pts with bundle branch block, of which 4 with pathological HV and 1 with intrahisian conduction defect). With the exception of a shortening of QTc interval in all the pts, the drug did not significantly affect any other electrophysiological parameters. In the patient with intrahisian conduction defect, M. prolonged the H1 - H2 interval. A statistically significant increase of heart rate has been also observed in a second group of 8 pts with normal sinus function, in whom M. administration was preceded by Atropine (I.V. bolus 0,04 mg/Kg/B.W.). This finding seems to exclude a vagolytic effect of M. The conclusions derived from our experience and pertinent literature are the following: M. is not useful in the treatment of supraventricular arrhythmias because it has negligible effects on atrial and AV nodal conduction; the drug may be safely employed in the treatment of ventricular arrhythmias in pts with atrial and/or AV nodal conduction defects; special caution must be employed when the drug is utilized in pts with sick sinus syndrome and/or with marked intraventricular conduction defects.
Electrophysiological effects of lidocaine in sick sinus syndrome.	Electrophysiological studies were performed to see the effects of lidocaine on the conduction system, particularly sinus node and atrium in 40 patients of SSS, using HBE recordings, rapid atrial pacing and atrial extrastimulus technique. Sinus cycle length, PA (P'A), AH, HV intervals, calculated SACT, and refractory periods of atrium, AV node and His-Purkinje system did not change after lidocaine. Only maximum CSRT was significantly increased with lidocaine. These results were not affected by pretreatment of atropine. In conclusion, the combining rapid atrial pacing with lidocaine may be useful to manifest the masked sinus node abnormalities. It was suggested that lidocaine directly depressed sinus node automaticity in SSS patients, without affecting perinodal tissue. Therefore, lidocaine should be used with caution in patients with known or suspected SSS.
Atrioventricular conduction during long-term follow-up of patients with sick sinus syndrome.	It has been claimed that patients with sick sinus syndrome have an increased risk of developing AV block, but this has never been assessed prospectively. The aim of the present study was to evaluate in a prospective trial AV conduction during the long-term follow-up of patients with sick sinus syndrome.
