Possible involvement of hypothyroidism as a cause of lithium-induced sinus node dysfunction.	Although several reports have stated that even therapeutic levels of lithium can induce sinus node dysfunction, the mechanism has not been fully elucidated. We present here two patients with sinus node dysfunction after long-term lithium therapy. Following lithium discontinuation, sinus node function recovered completely. After resuming lithium, however, irreversible sinus node dysfunction recurred and a permanent pacemaker was implanted in one patient. The serum concentration of lithium was within therapeutic levels. Nevertheless, hypothyroidism was associated with the sinus node dysfunction in both patients. Thus, thyroid function may play an important role in sinus node dysfunction induced by lithium.
Lithium, a potentially dangerous drug]	Two patients with a bipolar disorder, a woman aged 56 and a woman aged 68, who had used lithium for more than 30 years, were seen with side effects from this medication. Both patients were treated by their general practitioner and had not visited a psychiatrist for many years. The first patient had a chronic lithium intoxication with cerebellar signs and eventually coma, diabetes insipidus, hyperthyroidism, hyperparathyroidism and psoriasis. After 6 weeks of treatment in the intensive-care unit she made a good recovery. The second patient had several lithium side effects. She was diagnosed with diabetes insipidus, hyperparathyroidism due to a parathyroid adenoma, hypothyroidism and a sick-sinus syndrome. A pacemaker was implanted 4 years earlier. The adenoma was surgically removed. After other medication was tried, the patient was once again given lithium, on which she was able to function well. The first patient had lithium concentrations above the therapeutic value for several years and both patients experienced a delay before their signs and symptoms were attributed to lithium. Lithium treatment should be monitored by an experienced psychiatrist.
Transient sick sinus syndrome by oral intake of high dose dehydrocodeine for postherpetic neuralgia]	An 88-year-old man was admitted to the intensive care unit after the ingestion of 150 mg of dehydrocodeine. The ECG showed severe brodycardia and he was diagnosed as sick sinus syndrome. The recovering of sinus node function took 5 days after the ingestion. The complication observed suggests that transient hypoxia induced by ingestion of high dose DHC had affected sinus node.
Lithium-induced sinus node dysfunction at therapeutic serum levels.	Lithium-induced cardiotoxicity, though rare at therapeutic levels, has been reported frequently in overdoses. We report a patient who developed sinus bradycardia while being treated with lithium carbonate even though the serum lithium levels were within the therapeutic range. It reversed following withdrawal of lithium and did not reappear with subsequent treatment with valproate.
Comparative study between original and traditional method in establishing a chronic sinus node damage model in rabbit.	Sick Sinus Syndrome is a common and refractory arrhythmia, needing further study in which setting up a credible sinus node damage model is important. To explore the feasibility and superiority of an original formaldehyde pinpoint pressing permeation (FPPP) method for building a chronic sinus node damage (CSND) model, 5 rabbits were chosen from 35 as a sham-operation group, and the remaining were randomly divided into two groups: the formaldehyde wet compressing (FWC) group, in which models were established by applying a cotton bud dipped in 20% formaldehyde onto the sinus node (SN) area, and the FPPP group, in which models were established by injecting formaldehyde into the SN area through a self-made pinpointing and injecting electrode. We found that in both groups, the HR at 2 h, 24 h, 1 wk, and 2 wk after modeling decreased compared with premodeling; sinoatrial conduction time, sinus node recovery time, and corrected sinus node recovery time were prolonged compared with premodeling. The indexes mentioned shortened by 2 wk after modeling compared with 2 h in the FWC group, whereas they were stable after modeling in the FPPP group. The modeling achievement ratio in the FPPP group was higher and the death rate was lower. Under light microscope, paraffin sections of the SN tissue and cells showed severe injury in both groups. The results indicate that the CSND models in rabbits can be successfully established by the FPPP method, with higher achievement ratio, lower death rate, better stabilization effect, and less damaging comparing with the traditional method.
