PspA family typing and PCR-based DNA fingerprinting with BOX A1R primer of pneumococci from the blood of patients in the USA with and without sickle cell disease.	Disease and mortality rates for Streptococcus pneumoniae infections are much higher in patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) than in age-matched patients without SCD. Pneumococcal surface protein A (PspA) has been proposed as a component in human vaccines against S. pneumoniae to provide greater breadth of coverage than can be obtained with the 7-valent conjugate vaccine. The cross-reactivity of PspA is associated with the 'PspA family' structure. In this study we examined strains of S. pneumoniae from patients with and without SCD to determine whether the strains infecting the hypersusceptible population of SCD patients were limited to the same two PspA families already known to comprise over 95% of strains infecting non-SCD patients. Each strain was also evaluated according to the presence or absence of specific PCR fragments based on repetitive BOX elements to screen for possible SCD-associated clonal structure. Strains from SCD and non-SCD patients were similarly dispersed among the most common BOX PCR groups and strains from both groups expressed a similar distribution of PspA variants. Thus, a PspA vaccine designed for the population at large should also be appropriate for patients with SCD.
Increased in vivo activation of neutrophils and complement in sickle cell disease.	Eight patients with homozygous sickle cell anemia, 15 heterozygotes, and eight control individuals were investigated with respect to plasma concentrations of the inflammatory markers lysozyme and myeloperoxidase and the complement activation marker C3d. The patients showed significantly increased levels of myeloperoxidase and C3d, but not lysozyme, compared with the heterozygotes and the controls. The heterozygotes were also significantly different from the controls with regard to C3d concentration. The concentrations of myeloperoxidase and C3d in plasma showed a significant inverse correlation with the hemoglobin concentration. Myeloperoxidase and C3d showed a significant positive correlation. This suggests a role for the neutrophil and the complement system in the pathophysiology of sickle cell disease.
Serum immunoglobulins in sickle cell disease.	Immunoglobulins IgG, IgA and IgM were estimated in 20 cases of sickle cell disease in steady state, eleven cases of sickle cell disease in crisis and/or infection, 20 cases of sickle cell trait and 14 normal healthy controls. Immunoglobulin deficiency has not been observed in sickle cell disease. Significantly raised IgG but normal IgA and IgM found in sickle cell disease cases was probably due to chronic stimulation of reticuloendothelial cells secondary to chronic hemolysis. IgM levels were significantly higher in patients with splenic enlargement > 3 cm. There was no alteration in immunoglobulin levels in sickle cell trait.
