Lead failure due to the subclavian crush syndrome in a patient implanted with both standard and thin bipolar spiral wound leads.	Subclavian crush syndrome is a well-described cause of pacemaker lead failure resulting from an entrapment of a lead or leads between the clavicle and the first rib. A new thinner lead (ThinLine) was designed to minimize this complication. Our patient developed atrial and ventricular lead subclavian crush syndrome with both conventional and thin leads.
Multiple pacing lead-induced superior vena cava syndrome: successful treatment by balloon angioplasty.	Pacemaker-induced SVC syndrome. The superior vena cava (SVC) syndrome is an uncommon but sometimes serious complication associated with permanently implanted pacemakers. The mechanical stress associated with pacemaker wires may lead to vessel wall inflammation, fibrosis, thrombus formation, and, ultimately, venous stenosis and occlusion. The surgical treatment of pacemaker-related SVC syndrome requires thoracotomy and may result in significant morbidity. The long-term effects on the pacemaker electrodes, due to compression between the stent and the wall of the vein, remain unknown. We describe a case in which balloon venoplasty successfully resolved the SVC syndrome. The patient has remained symptom-free and with normal pacemaker function for 6 months.
"The attack of the 52 cm lead": an unusual case of late cardiac perforation by a passive-fixation permanent pacemaker lead.	We report a case of right ventricular perforation by a passive-tined permanent pacemaker lead detected 1 month after implantation. The pacemaker lead was seen to perforate through the myocardium and pericardium and moving freely in the mediastinum with no evidence of pericardial effusion. Extraction was uneventful.
DDIR versus VVIR pacing in patients with paroxysmal atrial tachyarrhythmias.	Patients with sinus node dysfunction (SND) in particular those with tachycardia-bradycardia syndrome and patients undergoing atrioventricular nodal ablation procedures for refractory paroxysmal atrial tachyarrhythmias (PAT), are candidates for single chamber (VVIR mode) or dual chamber rate responsive (DDIR mode) systems. To evaluate the benefits and disadvantages of each pacing mode we retrospectively analyzed 33 patients with a history of frequent PAT who received a VVIR (22 patients); or a DDDR pacemaker (11 patients) programmed to the DDIR mode. The mean follow-up time was 25 and 18 months, respectively. Preimplant left atrial diameter was significantly smaller in the DDIR group. Chronic atrial fibrillation developed in 54% of the VVIR patients and 27% of the DDIR group, but this difference was not significant. Complications of patients with VVIR pacemakers included new mitral and tricuspid insufficiency, stroke, pacemaker intolerance and aggravated congestive heart failure. Patients with DDIR pacemakers had a lower incidence of symptoms and complications. However, this group received more antiarrhythmic medication, required a closer follow-up, and their pacemakers needed frequent reprogramming. Our findings suggest that VVIR is a poor choice for patients with SND, congestive heart failure, and PAT, and that DDIR may be an acceptable alternative.
Early clinical experience with a minute ventilation sensor DDDR pacemaker.	The new DDDR pacemaker META DDDR utilizes a minute ventilation sensor based on transthoracic impedance measurements. The sensor determines the metabolic indicated interval, the atrioventricular (AV) delay and the postventricular atrial refractory period (PVARP). The baseline PVARP must be carefully selected to define nonphysiological tachycardias. If a P wave falls within the PVARP the pacemaker will automatically switch to the VVIR mode. This behavior prevents tracking of paroxysmal atrial tachyarrhythmias (PAT). Twenty-eight patients with sinus node dysfunction (n = 20), AV junction ablation (n = 5), complete or intermittent AV block (n = 3); who received a META DDDR pacemaker were studied. The mean age was 65 +/- 13 years.
A new approach to the prevention of endless loop tachycardia in DDD and VVD pacing.	Endless loop tachycardia (ELT) is a possible complication in dual chamber pacing; it is usually prevented by programming the atrial refractory period (PVARP) longer than the retrograde ventriculoatrial (VA) conduction interval; this in some patients limits the upper rate. In 15 patients with a DDD (nine patients) or a single-pass lead VDD pacemaker (six patients) and retrograde atrial activation, telemetric recording documented a significant difference in amplitude of antegrade, and retrograde atrial potentials (VDD 1.21 +/- 0.32 mV vs 0.56 +/- 0.23 mV, P = 0.008; DDD 2.7 +/- 1 vs 1.8 +/- 1 mV, P = 0.038; Student's t-test for paired data). In 3/15 patients ELT stopped after programming of atrial sensitivity to a value greater than the retrograde P wave amplitude; in 11/15 patients this occurred at a sensing value lower than or equal to retrograde P wave amplitude with a high pass band filter operating. One patient required PVARP lengthening. Holter monitoring showed no more ELTs. In most patients with a DDD or single-pass lead VDD pacemaker with widely programmable sensing amplitude and Hi/Low bandpass filters, individual programming of atrial channel sensitivity prevents ELT without affecting the PVARP and, consequently, upper rate limit.
Effects of the association of dual-site dynamic atrial overdrive and atenolol in preventing recurrent atrial fibrillation.	Evaluate the effects of optimized atrial stimulation--OAS (dual-site atrial pacing, heart rate above the intrinsic rate, and specific functional algorithm), and the use of atenolol in preventing recurrent atrial fibrillation (AF). Primary endpoint: to quantify the rate of AF episodes. Secondary endpoints: assessment of quality of life, specific cardiovascular symptoms, rate of hospital admissions, rate of electrical and pharmacological cardioversions, and adverse cardiac events.
A clinical comparison between a new dual-chamber pacing mode-AAIsafeR and DDD mode.	The aim of this study was to compare the cross-follow-up results in DDD or AAISafeR mode and to describe the safety and effectiveness of this pacing mode.
Pseudohysteresis in a universal AV sequential pacemaker.	We describe pacemaker pauses and pseudohysteresis resulting from sensing of retrograde P waves in a patient with an implanted AV sequential universal pacemaker. Although retrograde P waves are usually followed by a ventricular spike and therefore create the possibility for "endless loop tachycardia," in our patient some retrograde P waves which followed premature ventricular contractions or junctional beats produced pacemaker pauses. The reason for the occurrence of this phenomenon is that the sum of the VA conduction time and the AV delay is shorter than the pacemaker's hardware rate limit. Therefore, the ventricular spike that should follow the retrograde P wave is inhibited. In the pacemaker used by us, the atrial refractory period is only initiated by an atrial event, allowing the pacemaker to sense retrograde P waves occurring after premature junctional or ventricular depolarizations. Although no therapy is needed for the phenomenon described, it is important to understand its true significance and to avoid unnecessary surgical procedures.
Atrial pacing: efficacy and safety.	Atrial pacing has the advantages of simplicity, maintenance of AV synchrony, and economy. The major detraction has been the potential for deterioration of atrioventricular conduction. In this study, we followed 43 patients with sick sinus syndrome treated with atrial (AAI) pacing. Excellent initial implant parameters were obtained in all. Three early lead repositionings were required. Minor sensing and pacing problems could all otherwise be handled by reprogramming. Follow-up for a mean of 25 +/- 20 months demonstrated excellent performance of the pacing systems. Pacing and sensing thresholds and lead impedance indicated excellent lead performance. There were no late lead failures. Nine patients have had mild deterioration in atrioventricular conduction and one of these had a change to DDD pacing at the time of elective battery change. All patients are asymptomatic. Thus, chronic atrial pacing in selected patients is safe and reliable with good chronic lead performance and low risk of subsequent conduction system disease.
Intermittent oversensing due to internal insulation damage of temperature sensing rate responsive pacemaker lead in subclavian venipuncture method.	A 49-year-old male patient developed sensing failure (oversensing) 6 months after the implantation of a temperature sensing rate responsive pacemaker by the subclavian venipuncture method. Intermittent oversensing appeared in the sitting position, but did not appear in the supine position. Temperature telemetry showed an excessive fluctuation of the temperature data points while sitting and while doing a treadmill exercise test. Internal insulation damage was found approximately 31 cm from the distal tip of the explanted lead. The electrical resistance between one thermistor coil and the pacing coil changed from 9 kiloohms to 40 ohms when moderate pressure was applied to the outside lead in the fault area. This electrical shunt resulted from internal insulation damage that resulted from compression of the pacemaker lead between the first rib and the clavicle.
Initial clinical experience with a rate responsive pacemaker.	Prism-CLR is a new single chamber unipolar pace, bipolar or unipolar sense, rate responsive pacemaker that utilizes a closed-loop system based on the analysis of the evoked potential for rate adjustment. It also has an automatic output regulation feature for capture verification and threshold search. Five patients in whom this pacemaker was implanted exhibited an appropriate rate increase with exercise and psychological stress. Automatic output regulation functioned appropriately in three of five patients. Preliminary data suggest that Prism-ClR is an effective pacemaker for patients who may benefit from rate responsive pacing. The automatic output regulation recognition algorithm may need modification in some patients.
A comparative evaluation of a minute ventilation sensing and activity sensing adaptive-rate pacemakers during daily activities.	Most studies evaluating the rate response of adaptive-rate pacemakers have been based on treadmill or bicycle exercise. These studies disregard the fact that few pacemaker recipients voluntarily undertake such activities. The rate responses of nine patients (mean age 62 years, range 33-79 years) with implanted minute ventilation sensing (Meta) pacemakers were studied. The indications for pacing were complete heart block (seven patients), sick sinus syndrome (one patient), and five nodal disease (one patient). Significant improvement in maximum distance covered during a 12-minute walking test was observed in the rate adaptive compared to the VVI pacing mode (989 +/- 104 vs 921 +/- 90 m, P less than 0.02). The rate responses of this pacemaker during daily activities were recorded with telemetry during a variety of structured daily activities. The rate responses were also compared to those of an externally attached Activitrax pacemaker in each patient and to a group of ten age and sex matched volunteers. For less strenuous activities such as walking, descending stairs, washing, and bed making, both pacemakers achieved adequate rate responses compared to normal subjects. For more strenuous activities, the Activitrax pacemaker failed to achieve an adequate rate response. For example, the pacing rate achieved on ascending stairs was lower than that achieved on descending stairs (92 +/- 3 vs 102 +/- 3 bpm, P less than 0.02). The direction of rate responses was more appropriate for the Meta pacemaker. Similar to the normal subjects, the maximum rate was reached before the end of an activity with the Activitrax pacemaker.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Pacemaker follow-up and adequacy of Medicare guidelines.	The time of occurrence of cardiac pacemaker problems after implantation was identified to assess the adequacy of published federal guidelines for clinic and transtelephonic follow-up. One hundred eighty-nine pacemaker patients' charts were examined retrospectively to identify pacemaker problems: inadequate sensing, non-capture, battery failure, myoinhibition, muscle stimulation, and inadequate threshold safety margin. Twenty-nine patients (15%) were identified as having pacemaker problems. A total of 41 problems were identified, of which 28 (68%) were corrected by reprogramming. Sixty-one percent of the problems were found during a clinic visit. Problems occurred more frequently during the first year in dual-chamber devices (62%) vs single-chamber devices (35%). During years 1 to 4, when few problems are expected, 30% of all problems of single-chamber devices occurred and 39% of all problems of dual-chamber devices occurred. This is a period of time that Medicare guidelines allow for one clinic visit per year for single- and two visits per year for dual-chamber devices. These data suggest: (1) Many pacemaker problems will be missed with transtelephonic follow-up alone. (2) The majority of problems involving dual-chamber devices occurred in the first year. (3) For both dual- and single-chamber devices, an unexpected significant percentage of problems occurred in 1 to 4 years. (4) Medicare guidelines may be inadequate for follow-up during this time period.
Uni- and bipolar 2-chamber stimulation with a DDD system of programmable polarity]	In order to compare bi- (b) and unipolar (u) stimulation, sensing and electrical interference, twelve patients were followed over a period of ten months. The implanted device was the CPI Delta 925, programmable to the bi- and unipolar mode in the atrium (a) as well as in the ventricle (v). A CPI-4266 screw-in lead positioned in the atrium and a CPI-4260 hook lead placed in the ventricle were connected to the pacemaker. Intraoperatively determined were: (1) the threshold at pulse durations of 0.1 ms, of 0.5 ms and of 1.0 ms, (2) the P/QRS-amplitude, (3) the slew-rate and (4) the resistance in both the bi- and unipolar mode. Having programmed the atrial sensitivity to 0.25 mV or to 0.75 mV and the ventricular sensitivity to 0.5 mV or to 1.5 mV, we postoperatively examined and compared in the two modes of polarity the threshold (2.2 V and 5 V), the P/QRS-amplitude and finally the electrical interference triggered with the help of chest wall stimulation. All measurements were performed one day, four weeks and four months after implantation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Body movement as pacemaker induction value: comparison of 2 activity-triggered pacemakers]	This article compares the rate behavior of the activity-triggered pacemakers, the Activitrax (A) and the Sensolog (S), during bench tests as well as in patients under defined ergometric conditions and during every day life with special reference to the susceptibility of both systems to external noise. In the bench tests both pacemakers were mounted on a swingbord and subjected to controlled vibrational force. In the first experiment the frequency, in the second experiment the energy was varied. In two groups, one with S, one with A implanted, each consisting of 10 patients, the discriminating power of workload changes was examined under defined treadmill exercise. Furthermore in 5 patients of each group the rate behavior of S and A under daily life conditions and during common environmental noise was registered using Holter-ECG. In the bench tests S and A displayed a frequency-selective mode of operation between 2 Hz and 70 Hz with the highest sensitivity (resonance frequency) at 10 Hz. In patients, S showed a significantly higher discriminating power to changes of workload under treadmill exercise. According to y = 0.27x + 85.8 (r = 0.92) the relationship between the pacing rate of S and the power was linear whereas with y = 0.04x + 89.8 (r = 0.2) the pacing rate of A was almost independent of the given power. The susceptibility to external noise occurring during riding a car, streetcar or train with rate increases between 7 ppm and 12 ppm did not significantly differ in both systems.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Behavior of central venous blood temperature in short duration and repeated stress--possibilities for temperature controlled frequency-adapted pacemaker stimulation]	Although an exercise-induced increase in blood temperature has been well-known for some time, there was still some doubt whether the change in central venous blood temperature with short-lasting and repetitive physical exercise can be measured and utilized by a temperature controlled pacing system. We studied the central venous blood temperature with short-lasting and repetitive exercise in ten healthy young volunteers and in ten pacemaker patients. The blood temperature was measured intracardially while they walked upstairs. A height of 20 m was covered within 100 +/- 5 s. An oxygen uptake of 27 ml/min/kg was calculated for this level of exercise. After walking upstairs once, the volunteers had an increase in central venous blood temperature of 0.3 degrees C and the pacemaker patients of 0.37 degrees C. After walking upstairs three times, the volunteers had an overall rise in blood temperature of 0.67 degrees C and the pacemaker patients of 0.86 degrees C. Thus, the central venous blood temperature shows a pronounced, measurable increase with short-lasting exercise as well. However, the rises in blood temperature accumulate with repetitive exercise, as the duration of exercise (100 s) when walking upstairs once is not sufficient for a new level of temperature to be reached according to the level of exercise. Thus, a temperature controlled pacing system should take these complex changes into consideration.
Use of the electric stimulation of the heart in sick sinus syndrome (achievements and disputable problems)]	Experience with cardiac electrostimulation for the weak sinus node syndrome is presented. Between 1982 and 1985, 296 primary pacemaker implantations were performed, or 21.44% of all primary implantations performed over that period. The weak sinus node syndrome was diagnosed on the basis of ECG, Holter's monitoring and the atrial stimulation test. Initial atrioventricular conductivity disorders were recorded in 22.1%. Atrioventricular conductivity deteriorated in 16.1% of patients after 2 to 8 years of follow-up. The right ventricle was the principal stimulus application site in 267 patients, right-atrial stimulation was performed in 9, and double stimulation (radio-frequency right-atrial stimulation plus right-ventricular or right-atrial stimulation on demand), in 20. Permanent atrial fibrillation developed in 25% of 144 patients, followed up for 2 to 8 years, and the implant was removed in 5 (14%) patients.
Physiologic frequency adaptation of cardiac pacemakers using systolic time intervals]	Of the parameters in consideration for control of physiological rate responsive pacing special interest is directed to stroke volume. In search of indirect parameters which are correlated to stroke volume it is demonstrated on principle that systolic time intervals could be used. From the relation ejection time versus pre-ejection time (LVET/PEP) which is known for its correlation to stroke volume a simple algorithm is derived which is based on the realization that PEP is related to the reciprocal of cardiac output. First investigations with patients demonstrated the possibility of the computation of heart rate from PEP only, with good physiological significance.
The atrial pacemaker as therapy in sinus node disease: retrospective analysis of complications and rate of survival]	The implantation of an atrial pacing device represents an established mode of therapy for bradycardia in sinus node dysfunction. However, controversial views remain concerning the safety of this type of pacing. To investigate this, we retrospectively analysed data from 81 patients, all of whom received an AAI pacing device between 1972 and 1984. Complete AV-block developed in two out of 81 patients (cumulative incidence after 10 years was 5 +/- 3%). Atrial fibrillation developed in three out of 81 patients (cumulative incidence after 10 years was 10 +/- 5%). Lead-related complications were strongly related to the type of lead tip and the mode of fixation. The overall incidence of lead-related problems was 20 +/- 5% after 5 years and 38 +/- 12% after 10 years. 82 +/- 6% of patients survived the first 5 years, 52 +/- 14% survived for 10 years. The 5 years' survival rate was not different from that of the normal population. From this we conclude that atrial pacing can be safely done with an AAI system as long as there are no signs of an AV-block. Atrial fibrillation develops less often on AAI pacing than on VVI pacing. The risk of developing an AV-block seems rather low.
Pacemaker therapy in infants (author's transl)]	Since April 1974 until January 1978 permanent pacemakers were implanted in 21 children. The patient age at the time of operation averaged 4.5 years; the youngest patient was 3 months old. Indications for pacemaker implantation were: congenital total a-v block (TAVB) (n = 4), sick syndrom (S-S-S) (n = 4), postoperative TAVB (n = 13). Cardiac failure was present in all patients despite optimal medical treatment. Pacemakers were implanted under general anesthesia and intubation. The stimulation electrodes were positioned by the transvenous route in 16 subjects and by direct fixation upon the ventricle and the atrium in 5 patients. 5 children obtained an atrial triggered, 14 patients R-inhibited demand pacemaker and 2 subjects an asynchronous pacemaker. After a mean observation time of 16.4 months mean pacemaker function is normal in 14 patients. 6 children died 1 to 33 months after implantation despite functioning pacemakers because of congestive heart failure. Pacemaker malfunction was observed in 4 patients. The type of malfunction induced: failure of the impulse generator (n = 2), dislodgement of the electrode (n = 2), threshold increase (n = 1). In 5 children generators were changed 9 to 36 months (m = 23 plus or minus 10) after implantation because of battery depletion. The use of the pacemakers in small children is connected with several specific problems: 1. Application of large generators is hazardous because of impending perforation and secondary infection. 2. Until now miniaturization of pacemakers decreases function time and therefore implies frequent surgical intervention. 3. Stretching and dislodgement of transvenous electrodes may occur due to growth of the child. 4. Threshold increase may limit the life-span of myocardial electrodes. 5. Physiological changes in natural frequency requires changes in stimulation rate. 6. To guarantee normal physical activity demand related adaptation of heart rate is necessary. Because of these reasons a pacemaker system for children should have the following criteria: low weight, small wolume, high energy capacity, atrial or programmable stimulation, a thin elastic perhaps coiled electrode.
A new technique for treating the exposed cardiac pacemaker wires in the supraclavicular region.	Exposure of pacemaker wires has become a common challenge in plastic surgery. Suggested techinques for dealing with this problem include removal and reintroduction of the entire pacemaker system or coverage with local flaps. We propose a new technique, which in addition to local flap coverage, eliminates the problem future pressure necrosis by placing the wires in the clavicle rather than about it.
Effect of steroid eluting versus conventional electrodes on propafenone induced rise in chronic ventricular pacing threshold.	The aim of this study was to evaluate chronic ventricular pacing threshold increase after oral propafenone therapy. Eighty-three patients affected by advanced atrioventricular block and sick sinus syndrome were studied at least 3 months after pacemaker implantation, before and after oral propafenone therapy (450-900 mg/day based on body weight). The patients were subdivided into three groups according to the type of unipolar electrode that was implanted: group I (41 patients) Medtronic CapSure 4003, group II (30 patients) Medtronic Target Tip 4011, and group III (12 patients) Osypka Vy screw-in lead. In all cases a Medtronic unipolar pacemaker was implanted: 30 Minix, 23 Activitrax, 14 Elite, 12 Legend, and 4 Pasys. Propafenone blood level was measured in 75 patients 3-5 hours after propafenone administration. The pacing autothreshold was measured at 0.8 V, 1.6 V, and 2.5 V by reducing pulse width. At the three different outputs before and after propafenone, threshold increments were significantly lower in group I in comparison with group II and group III (propafenone ranging from < 0.001 to < 0.05). No significant difference was found in pacing impedance or in propafenone plasma concentration in the three groups. Strength-duration curves were drawn for each group at baseline and after propafenone administration. Before propafenone, in group I, the knee was markedly shifted to the left and downward as compared to the classic curve, so that the steep part was predominant; in group II and group III this shift was progressively less evident.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effect of low dose aspirin on augmented plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 activity in patients with permanent pacemakers.	To clarify the activity states of coagulation and fibrinolysis in patients with a permanent pacemaker, we studied 29 patients more than 4 months after operation. They were divided into a single pacemaker lead group (S, n = 14) and a double lead group (D, n = 15). Prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, fibrinogen, antithrombin III, tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA) activity, plasminogen activator inhibitor type-1 (PAI-1) activity, and platelet aggregation were measured and compared to those in an age-matched control group (C, n = 7). The effects of low dose aspirin (81 mg/day) in the patients (n = 21) were also studied 2 weeks after administration. PAI-1 activity in groups S and D was significantly higher than that in the group C (53.5 +/- 36.5, 86.8 +/- 59.2 ng/mL vs 19.4 +/- 7.2 ng/mL; P < 0.01 and P < 0.005). Platelet aggregation induced by collagen was slightly higher in groups S and D than group C. Other parameters were not significantly different. In the patients, low dose aspirin significantly suppressed collagen induced platelet aggregation (71.8 +/- 20.3% vs 41.7 +/- 28.3%; P < 0.005), but not PAI-1 activity. tPA activity was increased significantly by the low dose aspirin administration (3.94 +/- 1.85 ng/mL vs 2.48 +/- 1.19 ng/mL; P < 0.005). Thus, PAI-1 activity in patients with a permanent pacemaker is elevated, and the activity is not suppressed by low dose aspirin unlike the platelet aggregation.
Cardiac pacing in Sicily (author's transl)]	We report the experience in Sicily, where more than 3000 pacemakers have been implanted in different Schools of Medicine and Hospitals (Agrigento, Catania, Messina, Palermo and Ragusa). Our personal experience (Cardiology Division--Catania) is 846 cases up to June 1977. We would like to stress that today the sick sinus syndrome and other pathological conditions not due to complete AV block are of increasing incidence as an indication to definitive electrostimulation. In addition, the average age of patients is getting lower, and more PM-demand and lithium powered PM are implanted. The most used implant technique has been through the cephalic vein. Today it is possible to have more distant controls mainly because of the oscilloscopic evaluation technique. Mortality during surgery and immediately post-surgery is very low, and the bioelectric complications are very rare. In conclusion, we would suggest: 1) a strict cooperation with a Cardio-surgery Division; 2) the utilization of more sophisticated techniques to make controls less frequent and more rapid and easy (e.g. telephone controls); 3) a more modern and correct law on this issue and a better information of the public, involving educational, social and medical structures so that the patient with a pacemaker can live in his family with a recovery for work and society.
A regional experience with permanent cardiac pacing: in Friuli-Venezia Giulia the highest density of pacemaker patients in Italy, to-day (author's transl)]	In Friuli-Venezia Giulia, a region of 1,243,463 inhabitants, a total of 1,629 first implants have been carried out since the first patient was treated with permanent cardiac pacing (P.C.P.) early in 1692. This patient is still alive. In the last four years, the annual rate of implants was 185 per million inhabitants. The average age of patients is 72.9. The most frequent indication for pacing is the a-v block (64.5%), followed by the fascicular blocks (10.8%) and the sick sinus syndrome. No asinchronous fixed rate generators are implanted at present; lithium batteries are the power source of choice to-day. There have been 1,120 replacements in the Region, mainly due to battery depletion (89.9% of cases). A total of 442 patient deaths have occurred in 10 years due to neoplasms (17%), cerebrovascular accidents (15.6%), respiratory infections (15%), myocardial infarction (8%) and other causes. In 8.8% of cases the death was sudden. There are 1,179 patients in follow-up in the Region (948 per million inhabitants). A computer system, described elsewhere in these proceedings, allows a close follow-up of these patients along with the evaluation of long term pacing on a reliable statistical basis.
Clinical and electrophysiological indications for permanent electrostimulation in sick sinus syndrome (author's transl)]	In 49 patients with sick sinus syndrome the following electrophysiological parameters were studied: sinus node recovery time and conduction time, atrial and AV nodal refractory periods, atrioventricular and intraventricular conduction. Moreover, pharmacological, vagal and sympathicomimetic stimulation were performed. These data were related to the clinical picture to establish any possible correlation leading to a more specific therapeutical choice. Patients were divided in two groups: group 1, with a prevalence of tachyarrhythmic symptoms and a lesser incidence of syncope, in which cases the sinus node function appeared to be only slightly affected. In group 2 small incidence of tachyarrhythmias and a clear prevalence of syncope with severe impairment of sinusal automaticity and/or sinoatrial conduction were present; AV and IV conduction disturbances were equally distributed in both groups. In more than 1/3 of the cases of the group I arrhythmias were succesfully treated with pharmacological therapy only, with Group 1 A antiarrhythmic agents in most cases. In the other cases of this Group and in all cases of Group II permanent electrical stimulation alone or together with drug therapy was necessary. Long term results with different therapeutical choices and, specifically, with the type of stimulation chosen in individual cases (sequential, rate-programmable ventricular, demand ventricular) are presented.
The criteria for the choice of a cardiac pacemaker (author's transl)]	The criteria commonly followed for the choice of a cardiac pacemaker to be used in the treatment of AV blocks and sick sinus syndrome are described. In case of AV block, the AA, believe that at first implant a ventricular inhibited pacemaker is to be preferred, while for the replacements the choice will be based on clinical grounds (mainly from the data obtained during the periodic controls, such as persistence of spontaneous activity, failure of sensing, etc.). In case of sick sinus syndrome, ventricular inhibited pacemakers are generally to be preferred firstly to secure stimulation even in case of AV block, secondly for the advantage of a greater stability of the endoventricular catheter. Atrial pacemakers (asynchronous, on demand, or bifocal) will be preferred when the atrial contribution is believed to be important from an haemodynamic point of view. Lastly, in single cases, its is possible to implant radiofrequency devices connected with the electrocatheter for the control of the tachyarrhythmic phases.
Unsatisfying results in long-term atrial pacing with a bipolar active fixation atrial lead.	A high dislodgment rate during long-term atrial pacing using the unipolar sickle-shaped active fixation lead was recently reported; therefore, the long-term results of atrial pacing in 118 consecutive patients with the bipolar sickle-shaped active fixation lead (Biotronik FH60-BP) were evaluated. Between January 1989 and September 1993, 87 leads (74%) were inserted for dual chamber pacing and 31 leads (26%) for atrial pacing only. At the time of implantation, the bipolar atrial electrogram had a mean voltage of 4.4 +/- 1.6 mV, whereas the acute atrial threshold was 0.72 +/- 0.38 V and 1.46 +/- 0.67 mA at 0.5-msec pulse duration and mean resistance 506 +/- 79 omega. Early lead dislodgment (< 1 month after implantation) occurred in 9 patients (7.6%). During a mean follow-up of 21.8 months (median 20.9 months), late dislodgment (> 1 month after implantation) occurred in 6 patients (5.1%) after a mean interval of 7.9 months (range 3-14 months). Due to the unacceptably high late dislodgment rate, which to date remains unexplained, new implants of this lead are not recommended.
Single-chamber ventricular pacing is not associated with worsening heart failure in sick sinus syndrome.	Ventricular pacing (with loss of normal atrioventricular synchrony) has been considered to have a role in the development or progression of congestive heart failure (CHF) in patients with sick sinus syndrome (SSS). No rigorous study has tested this hypothesis. Five hundred seven consecutive patients with SSS who received an initial pacemaker from January 1980 to December 1989 were studied. Atrial or dual-chamber pacemakers were implanted in 395 patients and ventricular pacemakers in 112. After a mean follow-up of 65 +/- 37 months, 97 patients (19%) developed new CHF or increased their New York Heart Association functional class. By univariate analysis, preimplant predictors for these events were left ventricular dysfunction (p < 0.001), valvular heart disease (p = 0.004), peripheral vascular disease (p = 0.005), diabetes (p = 0.02), coronary artery disease (p = 0.02), high New York Heart Association functional class (p = 0.03) and complex ventricular arrhythmia (p = 0.03). By multivariate analysis (logistic regression), the only predictors for CHF were valvular heart disease (p = 0.002; odds ratio [OR] 2.51), peripheral vascular disease (p = 0.003; OR 1.7) and complex ventricular arrhythmia (p = 0.027; OR 2.74). When the analysis was restricted to patients who had preimplant assessment of left ventricular function, independent predictors for CHF were left ventricular dysfunction (p < 0.001; OR 1.66), and complex ventricular arrhythmia (p < 0.001; OR 1.75). In conclusion, progressive or new-onset CHF is a consequence of the underlying cardiovascular disease. In the present population of patients with SSS, ventricular pacing mode was not associated with an increased incidence of CHF.
Effects of local steroid elution on chronic pacing threshold and impedance of endocardial pacemaker leads.	To study the effects of steroid elution on chronic pacing threshold and impedance, a 4-mm2 surface area lead with steroid (030-368, Telectronics; n = 9) was compared to the same lead without steroid (030-359, Telectronics; n = 9) 3 months after implantation. The pulse duration thresholds of the steroid lead were significantly lower at 0.8, 1.6, 2.5, and 5.0 V. Impedance measured by telemetry at 0.8, 1.6, 2.5, 5.0 and 8.0 V pulse amplitude, and 0.05, 0.25, 0.5 and 1.0 ms pulse duration was similar for the two leads. Mean impedance was about 650 omega and did not change from 0.8 to 8.0 V. The local steroid elution reduced the pacing threshold, but had no influence on the impedance. The stable impedance indicates that the impedance of this lead was not modified by pulse-dependent variables and, therefore, can also be correctly determined at pulse amplitudes below 5.0 V.
Permanent cardiac pacing in infants and children.	This clinical review details our 15 year experience with permanent cardiac pacemakers in 81 infants and children. Pacing was found inappropriate in one infant. The other 80 patients were paced because of congenital heart block [24], post-operative block [50], or sick sinus syndrome [6]. Maintenance of long-term pacing requires all too frequent re-operation for battery depletion [37%], lead related problems [32%] or wound dehiscence [31%]. Problems related to pacemaker size and the presence of a high myocardial threshold are particularly important in the pediatric patient. In spite of these problems, children requiring cardiac pacemakers can be extremely well, their prognosis depending almost entirely on the presence of underlying heart disease.
Unipolar sensing in contemporary pacemakers: using myopotential testing to define optimal sensitivity settings.	Bipolar lead use has increased due to oversensing concerns with older unipolar systems. Data on contemporary unipolar devices with improved hardware design and greater programming flexibility is lacking. Using a randomized crossover design, unipolar and bipolar sensing characteristics of 22 atrial and 16 ventricular leads were compared in 34 patients who had pulse generators of programmable polarity. Unipolar and bipolar intracardiac electrogram amplitudes, pacing and sensing thresholds at rest were similar. Provocative maneuvers were used to assess for myopotential inhibition. At atrial sensitivities of 0.625-1.50 mV, myopotential inhibition occurred in 11 (50%) atrial leads in the unipolar mode compared to 1 (5%) in the bipolar mode (p < 0.001). At sensitivities of > 1.50 mV myopotential inhibition occurred in only 1 ventricular (unipolar) lead. An optimal sensitivity setting for each polarity was derived using clinic test results and assessed by ambulatory ECG (AECG). At these optimal settings, oversensing occurred in 1 (6%) atrial and 1 (8%) ventricular unipolar lead during AECG monitoring, whereas oversensing was not seen in any leads programmed to the bipolar mode. Undersensing occurred in 5 (29%) atrial unipolar versus 1 (6%) bipolar lead (p = 0.08). Undersensing was not observed in any of the ventricular leads. Myopotential inhibition may be frequently provoked by provocative maneuvers at higher sensitivity settings in atrial unipolar leads. The frequency of oversensing can be significantly reduced by defining an optimal sensitivity setting using simple isometric maneuvers. Given present day concerns over bipolar lead longevity, increased utilization of unipolar ventricular leads should be considered.
