Optimization of the lariat ether carboxylic acid host structure for ferrioxamine B: demonstration of a second coordination shell chelate effect.	Host-guest supramolecular assembly formation constants involving the second-sphere complexation of the siderophore ferrioxamine B (FeHDFB(+)) by a lariat ether carboxylic acid host (L(n+2)COOH) in wet chloroform were obtained from liquid-liquid extractions at pH values above and below the host pK(a) (approximately 5.3). The host-guest formation constants, K(a), determined at pH = 3.2 for the assemblies [FeHDFB(+),L(n+2)COOH,ClO(4)(-)] (n = 4, 7, 10, 15) in wet chloroform are similar to those of the parent crown ether, benzo-18-crown-6. At pH = 9.3, the lariat ethers are ionized, and this results in a more stable assembly, [FeHDFB(+),L(n+2)COO(-)], as measured by the host-guest formation constant, K(app). This enhanced stability is shown to be a function of the lariat ether sidearm chain length (n = 4, 7, 10, 15) and is corroborated by molecular modeling calculations. Additionally, molecular modeling and extraction data demonstrate that there is an optimum lariat ether sidearm chain length with respect to host-guest assembly stability as measured by K(app). We attribute the enhanced stability effect of the ionized lariat ether in the host-guest assembly [FeHDFB(+),L(n+2)COO(-)], relative to [FeHDFB(+),L(n)+2)COOH,ClO(4)(-)] or to [FeHDFB(+),B18C6,ClO(4)(-)], to a second coordination shell chelate effect.
Petrobactin sulfonate, a new siderophore produced by the marine bacterium Marinobacter hydrocarbonoclasticus.	Culture of the oil-degrading marine bacterium Marinobacter hydrocarbonoclasticus gave the known siderophore petrobactin (1) and the new metabolite petrobactin sulfonate (2), the first marine siderophore containing a sulfonated 3,4-dihydroxy aromatic ring. The structure of petrobactin sulfonate was elucidated from spectral data, resulting in a revision of the NMR assignments of petrobactin.
The crystal structure of the pyoverdine outer membrane receptor FpvA from Pseudomonas aeruginosa at 3.6 angstroms resolution.	The pyoverdine outer membrane receptor FpvA from Pseudomonas aeruginosa translocates ferric-pyoverdine across the outer membrane via an energy consuming mechanism that involves the inner membrane energy transducing complex of TonB-ExbB-ExbD and the proton motive force. We solved the crystal structure of FpvA loaded with iron-free pyoverdine at 3.6 angstroms resolution. The pyoverdine receptor is folded in two domains: a transmembrane 22-stranded beta-barrel domain occluded by an N-terminal domain containing a mixed four-stranded beta-sheet (the plug). The beta-strands of the barrel are connected by long extracellular loops and short periplasmic turns. The iron-free pyoverdine is bound at the surface of the receptor in a pocket lined with aromatic residues while the extracellular loops do not completely cover the pyoverdine binding site. The TonB box, which is involved in intermolecular contacts with the TonB protein of the inner membrane, is observed in an extended conformation. Comparison of this first reported structure of an iron-siderophore transporter from a bacterium other than Escherichia coli with the known structures of the E.coli TonB-dependent transporters reveals a high structural homology and suggests that a common sensing mechanism exists for the iron-loading status in all bacterial iron siderophore transporters.
Siderophores produced by Magnaporthe grisea in the presence and absence of iron.	An analysis of siderophores produced by Magnaporthe grisea revealed the presence of one intracellular storage siderophore, ferricrocin, and four coprogen derivatives secreted into the medium under iron depletion. Structural analysis showed that the compounds are coprogen, coprogen B, 2-N-methylcoprogen and 2-N-methylcoprogen B. Siderophore production under low and high iron conditions was quantified.
Pyridine-2,6-bis(thiocarboxylic acid) produced by Pseudomonas stutzeri KC reduces chromium(VI) and precipitates mercury, cadmium, lead and arsenic.	Interactions of the Pseudomonas stutzeri KC siderophore pyridine-2,6-bis(thiocarboxylic acid) (pdtc) with chromium(VI), mercury(II), cadmium(II), lead(II), and arsenic(III) are described. Pdtc was found to reduce Cr(VI) to Cr(III) in both bacterial cultures and in abiotic reactions with chemically synthesized pdtc. Cr(III) subsequently formed complexes with pdtc and pdtc hydrolysis products, and their presence was confirmed using electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry (ESI-MS). Cr(III):pdtc complexes were found to slowly release Cr(III) as chromium sulfide and possibly Cr(III) oxides. Pdtc also formed poorly soluble complexes with Hg, Cd, Pb, and As(III). Hydrolysis of those complexes led to the formation of their respective metal sulfides as confirmed by energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) elemental analysis. The pdtc-producing strain P. stutzeri KC showed higher tolerance to most of these metals as compared to a pdtc-negative mutant. A novel role of pdtc is postulated as its involvement in providing an extracellular pool of thiols that are used for redox processes in detoxification of the bacterial extracellular environment. These redox processes can be mediated by transition metal:pdtc complexes.
Removal of thallium by combining desferrioxamine and deferiprone chelators in rats.	The hypothesis that two known chelators deferiprone (1,2-dimethy1-3-hydroxypyrid-4-one, L1) and desferrioxamine (DFO) might be more efficient as combined treatment than as monotherapies in removing thallium from the body was tested in rats. Six-week-old male Wistar rats received chelators: L1 (p.o.), DFO (i.p.) or L1 + DFO as 110 or 220 mg/kg dose half an hour after a single i.p. administration of 8 mg Tl/kg body weight in the form of chloride. Serum thallium concentration, urinary thallium and iron excretions were determined by graphite furnace atomic absorption spectrometry. Both chelators were effective only at the higher dose level, while DFO was more effective than L1 in enhancing urinary thallium excretion, L1 was more effective than DFO in enhancing urinary iron excretion. In the combined treatment group, L1 did not increase the DFO effect on thallium and DFO did not increase the effect of L1 on iron elimination. Our results support the usefulness of this animal model for preliminary in vivo testing of thallium chelators. Urinary values were more useful because of the high variability of serum results. Result of combined chelators treatment should be confirmed in a different experimental model before extrapolation to other systems.
Characterization of the chromophores of pyoverdins and related siderophores by electrospray tandem mass spectrometry.	Characteristic fragment ions of the various chromophores of the pyoverdin siderophore family obtained by collision activated dissociation of the [M+2H]2+ ions are reported allowing unambiguous identification. Tandem mass spectrometrical studies revealed the existence of the first example of a ferribactin with a succinamide side chain, and they add some information to the problem in which way a malic acid side chain is attached to the chromophore.
Evidence of ball-and-chain transport of ferric enterobactin through FepA.	The Escherichia coli iron transporter, FepA, has a globular N terminus that resides within a transmembrane beta-barrel formed by its C terminus. We engineered 25 cysteine substitution mutations at different locations in FepA and modified their sulfhydryl side chains with fluorescein maleimide in live cells. The reactivity of the Cys residues changed, sometimes dramatically, during the transport of ferric enterobactin, the natural ligand of FepA. Patterns of Cys susceptibility reflected energy- and TonB-dependent motion in the receptor protein. During transport, a residue on the normally buried surface of the N-domain was labeled by fluorescein maleimide in the periplasm, providing evidence that the transport process involves expulsion of the globular domain from the beta-barrel. Porin deficiency much reduced the fluoresceination of this site, confirming the periplasmic labeling route. These data support the previously proposed, but never demonstrated, ball-and-chain theory of membrane transport. Functional complementation between a separately expressed N terminus and C-terminal beta-barrel domain confirmed the feasibility of this mechanism.
Infrared multiphoton dissociation of the siderophore enterobactin and its Fe(III) complex. Influence of Fe(III) binding on dissociation kinetics and relative energetics.	The dissociation pathways of the siderophore enterobactin and its complex with Fe(III) were examined using infrared multiphoton dissociation (IRMPD). Under experimental conditions (pH = 3.5), both compounds' electrospray spectra exhibited exclusively singly-charged anions. The compositions of the dissociation products were characterized by accurate mass measurements using Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometry (FT-ICR MS). The primary dissociation channel for both species was determined to be the loss of one serine group from the precursor molecules. To further investigate the influence of Fe(III) binding on the intramolecular interactions, dissociation kinetics and relative energetics for the loss of this serine group were determined using the focused radiation for gaseous multiphoton energy-transfer (FRAGMENT) method. From the kinetic data, it was found that enterobactin was approximately seven times more reactive than its Fe(III) complex over the range of laser intensities investigated. The relative activation energies, however, exhibited similar values, approximately 7 kcal.mol(-1). These results suggest that at pH = 3.5, Fe(III) interacts with only two of the three serine groups. The results from the present work are believed to be valuable for the characterization of novel siderophores as well as their associated metabolites and synthetic analogues.
Tenacibactins A-D, hydroxamate siderophores from a marine-derived bacterium, Tenacibaculum sp. A4K-17.	Four new hydroxamate siderophores, tenacibactins A-D (1-4), were isolated from a culture broth of the marine-derived bacterium Tenacibaculum sp. A4K-17. The structures of these tenacibactins were determined by NMR analyses and ESIMS/MS experiments. The iron-binding (chelating) activity of 1-4 was evaluated by the chrome azurol sulfonate (CAS) assay.
Collision-activated dissociation, infrared multiphoton dissociation, and electron capture dissociation of the Bacillus anthracis siderophore petrobactin and its metal ion complexes.	Siderophores are high-affinity iron-chelating ligands produced by microorganisms to scavenge vital Fe(3+) from the environment. Thus, siderophores constitute potential therapeutic targets and their structural determination is important for exploiting their therapeutic value. Here, the virulence-associated siderophore petrobactin from Bacillus anthracis was characterized with electron capture dissociation (ECD). Fragmentation of doubly protonated petrobactin was investigated and compared to sustained off-resonance irradiation collision-activated dissociation (SORI CAD) and infrared multiphoton dissociation (IRMPD) of both the singly and doubly protonated species. These experiments demonstrate that ECD provides additional information (complementary bond cleavages) on the structure of petrobactin compared to both SORI CAD and IRMPD. Furthermore, complexes of petrobactin with divalent (Ca(2+), Fe(2+), and Co(2+)) and trivalent (Fe(3+) and Ga(3+)) metal cations were also subjected to SORI CAD and ECD. Again, most structural information was obtained from the ECD spectra. However, significant differences were found in both SORI CAD and ECD of metal complexes, dependent on the nature of the metal ion. Intriguingly, unique behavior, consistent with a recently proposed solution-phase structure, was observed for the highly preferred Fe(3+)-petrobactin complex.
Identification of siderophores of Pseudomonas stutzeri.	We have identified two types of siderophores produced by Pseudomonas, one of which has never before been found in the genus. Twelve strains of Pseudomonas stutzeri belonging to genomovars 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 9 produced proferrioxamines, the hydroxamate-type siderophores. Pseudomonas stutzeri JM 300 (genomovar 7) and DSM 50238 (genomovar 8) and Pseudomonas balearica DSM 6082 produced amonabactins, catecholate-type siderophores. The major proferrioxamines detected were the cyclic proferrioxamines E and D2. Pseudomonas stutzeri KC also produced cyclic (X1 and X2) and linear (G1 and G2a-c) proferrioxamines. Our data indicate that the catecholate-type siderophores belong to amonabactins P 750, P 693, T 789, and T 732. A mutant of P. stutzeri KC (strain CTN1) that no longer produced the secondary siderophore pyridine-2,6-dithiocarboxylic acid continued to produce all other siderophores in its normal spectrum. Siderophore profiles suggest that strain KC (genomovar 9) belongs to the proferrioxamine-producing P. stuzeri. Moreover, a putative ferrioxamine outer membrane receptor gene foxA was identified in strain KC, and colony hybridization showed the presence of homologous receptor genes in all P. stutzeri and P. balearica strains tested.
Loihichelins A-F, a suite of amphiphilic siderophores produced by the marine bacterium Halomonas LOB-5.	A suite of amphiphilic siderophores, loihichelins A-F, were isolated from cultures of the marine bacterium Halomonas sp. LOB-5. This heterotrophic Mn(II)-oxidizing bacterium was recently isolated from the partially weathered surfaces of submarine glassy pillow basalts and associated hydrothermal flocs of iron oxides collected from the southern rift zone of Loihi Seamount east of Hawai'i. The loihichelins contain a hydrophilic headgroup consisting of an octapeptide comprised of D-threo-beta-hydroxyaspartic acid, D-serine, L-glutamine, L-serine, L-N(delta)-acetyl-N(delta)-hydroxyornithine, dehydroamino-2-butyric acid, D-serine, and cyclic N(delta)-hydroxy-D-ornithine, appended by one of a series of fatty acids ranging from decanoic acid to tetradecanoic acid. The structure of loihichelin C was determined by a combination of amino acid and fatty acid analyses, tandem mass spectrometry, and NMR spectroscopy. The structures of the other loihichelins were inferred from the amino acid and fatty acid analyses and tandem mass spectrometry. The role of these siderophores in sequestering Fe(III) released during basaltic rock weathering, as well as their potential role in the promotion of Mn(II) and Fe(II) oxidation, is of considerable interest.
Hydroxamate siderophores of Scedosporium apiospermum.	Scedosporium apiospermum is an emerging pathogen colonizing the airways of patients with cystic fibrosis and causing severe infections in immunocompromised hosts. In order to improve our knowledge on the pathogenic mechanisms of this fungus, we investigated the production of siderophores. Cultivation on CAS medium and specific assays for different classes of siderophores suggested the secretion of hydroxamates. A maximal production was obtained by cultivation of the fungus at alkaline pH in an iron-restricted liquid culture medium. Siderophores were then extracted from the culture filtrate by liquid/liquid extraction, and separated by reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography. Two siderophores, dimerumic acid and Nα-methyl coprogen B, were identified by electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry and MS-MS fragmentation. Finally, comparison of various strains suggested a higher production of Na-methyl coprogen B by clinical isolates of respiratory origin. Studies are initiated in order to determine the potential usefulness of these siderophores as diagnostic markers of scedosporiosis.
Siderophore-mediated iron acquisition in the staphylococci.	Iron is frequently a growth-limiting nutrient due to its propensity to interact with oxygen to form insoluble precipitates and, therefore, biological systems have evolved specialized uptake mechanisms to obtain this essential nutrient. Many pathogenic bacteria are capable of obtaining stringently sequestered iron from animal hosts by one or both of the following mechanisms: extraction of heme from host erythrocyte and serum hemoproteins, or through the use of high affinity, iron-scavenging molecules termed siderophores. This review summarizes our current knowledge of siderophore-mediated iron acquisition systems in the genus Staphylococcus.
Iron complexation to oxygen rich marine natural products: a computational study.	The natural products kahalalide F, halichondrin B, and discodermolide are relatively large structures that were originally harvested from marine organisms. They are oxygen rich structures that, to varying degrees, should have the ability to bind iron (II or III) by Fe-O and/or Fe-N bonds. In this semi empirical study, the binding of these natural products to iron (II) is studied and the aqueous stability factor (ASF) is used to determine which bonding configuration is most stable. The energy, the complex charge (+1), the average Fe-O (or Fe-N) bond distances and the dipole moments are used to calculate the ASF. The ASF provides insight to which complex will be the most stable and water soluble, important for a medicinal application. The ability of a molecule with a more than six oxygen and/or nitrogen atoms to bind iron (hexavalent, octahedral) by shifting which six atoms (O/N) are bound to the iron qualifies it as a polarity adaptive molecule.
Chemistry of marine ligands and siderophores.	Marine microorganisms are presented with unique challenges to obtain essential metal ions required to survive and thrive in the ocean. The production of organic ligands to complex transition metal ions is one strategy to both facilitate uptake of specific metals, such as iron, and to mitigate the potential toxic effects of other metal ions, such as copper. A number of important trace metal ions are complexed by organic ligands in seawater, including iron, cobalt, nickel, copper, zinc, and cadmium, thus defining the speciation of these metal ions in the ocean. In the case of iron, siderophores have been identified and structurally characterized. Siderophores are low molecular weight iron-binding ligands produced by marine bacteria. Although progress has been made toward the identity of in situ iron-binding ligands, few compounds have been identified that coordinate the other trace metals. Deciphering the chemical structures and production stimuli of naturally produced organic ligands and the organisms they come from is fundamental to understanding metal speciation and bioavailability. The current evidence for marine ligands, with an emphasis on siderophores, and discussion of the importance and implications of metal-binding ligands in controlling metal speciation and cycling within the world's oceans are presented.
A lanthanide-based chemosensor for bioavailable Fe3+ using a fluorescent siderophore: an assay displacement approach.	The measurement of trace analytes in aqueous systems has become increasingly important for understanding ocean primary productivity. In oceanography, iron (Fe) is a key element in regulating ocean productivity, microplankton assemblages and has been identified as a causative element in the development of some harmful algal blooms. The chemosenor developed in this study is based on an indicator displacement approach that utilizes time-resolved fluorescence and fluorescence resonance energy transfer as the sensing mechanism to achieve detection of Fe3+ ions as low as 5 nM. This novel approach holds promise for the development of photoactive chemosensors for ocean deployment.
Conjugated and immobilized photosensitizers for combating bacterial infections.	The technique of photosensitization for eradication of bacterial cells involves the use of molecules called photosesitizers (PSs) which generate reactive oxygen species (ROS) upon illumination with light of a suitable wavelength. ROS can oxidize biological molecules such as proteins, nucleic acids and lipids, which ultimately leads to bacterial cell death. Use of PS-conjugates and immobilized PS can lead to a reduction in the amount of a compound necessary for bacterial cell eradication. In addition, PS-conjugates for delivering photosensitizer molecules are more effective for clinical applications, since the photosensitizers are targeted directly to bacterial cells. This review reports studies and patents that demonstrate the possibility of increasing bacterial cells eradication by using specific and non-specific PS-conjugates such as: PS-antibiotic, PS-polycation (including PS-poly-L-lysine and PS-polyethyleneimine), PS-bacteriophage, PS-IgG and PS-siderophore. Studies and patents describing immobilized PS for drug delivery are also considered.
A combinatorial approach to the structure elucidation of a pyoverdine siderophore produced by a Pseudomonas putida isolate and the use of pyoverdine as a taxonomic marker for typing P. putida subspecies.	The structure of a pyoverdine produced by Pseudomonas putida, W15Oct28, was elucidated by combining mass spectrometric methods and bioinformatics by the analysis of non-ribosomal peptide synthetase genes present in the newly sequenced genome. The only form of pyoverdine produced by P. putida W15Oct28 is characterized to contain α-ketoglutaric acid as acyl side chain, a dihydropyoverdine chromophore, and a 12 amino acid peptide chain. The peptide chain is unique among all pyoverdines produced by Pseudomonas subspecies strains. It was characterized as -L-Asp-L-Ala-D-AOHOrn-L-Thr-Gly-c[L-Thr(O-)-L-Hse-D-Hya-L-Ser-L-Orn-L-Hse-L-Ser-O-]. The chemical formula and the detected and calculated molecular weight of this pyoverdine are: C65H93N17O32, detected mass 1624.6404 Da, calculated mass 1624.6245. Additionally, pyoverdine structures from both literature reports and bioinformatics prediction of the genome sequenced P. putida strains are summarized allowing us to propose a scheme based on pyoverdines structures as tool for the phylogeny of P. putida. This study shows the strength of the combination of in silico analysis together with analytical data and literature mining in determining the structure of secondary metabolites such as peptidic siderophores. 
Adsorption and detection of Escherichia coli using an Au substrate modified with a catecholate-type artificial siderophore-Fe3+ complex.	A catecholate-type artificial siderophore with a terminal-NH2 group (1) and its Fe(3+) complex (2) were prepared. Siderophore 1 was characterized by (1)H NMR, FT-IR, and ESI-TOF MS spectroscopy. The corresponding Fe(3+) complex 2 was obtained by reaction of 1 with Fe(acac)3. The absorption band at 500 nm (ε = 4670 M(-1) cm(-1) at pH 7.0) of the electronic absorption spectrum of 2 is assignable as the LMCT (O(catecholate) → Fe(3+)) absorption band. This band indicates the formation of the Fe(3+) complex of 1. The biological activity of 2 with respect to Escherichia coli was clearly confirmed by observing that it permeates into the cell membrane. The self-assembled monolayer of 2 on an Au substrate, 2/Au, was prepared and its preparation was confirmed by FT-IR reflection-absorption spectroscopy (IR-RAS) and cyclic voltammetry (CV). Furthermore, a quartz crystal microbalance (QCM) chip modified with 2 effectively adsorbed E. coli. M. flavescens, an organism which is incapable of synthesizing siderophores and must therefore use exogenous hydroxamate-type siderophores for growth, did not adsorb on 2/Au. In contrast, E. coli did not adsorb on the hydroxamate-type artificial siderophore-Fe(3+) complex (3)-modified Au substrate, 3/Au. These results provide preliminary evidence that microbes recognized Fe(3+) ion-bound siderophores on the surface. The detection limit of 2/Au was ∼10(4) CFU mL(-1).
Contrasting effects of pyoverdine on the phytoextraction of Cu and Cd in a calcareous soil.	Enhanced metal phytoextraction by the use of siderophore-producing bacteria (SPB) has received a lot of attention in the past decade. Bacterial siderophores are able to bind a wide range of metals other than iron and thus should enhance their phytoavailability in contaminated matrices. However, the impact of bacterial siderophores in the soil-plant transfer of metals is not yet fully elucidated, as underlined by the opposing results reported in the literature regarding the efficiency of coupling phytoextraction with bioaugmentation by SPB. The present study focuses on one bacterial siderophore, the pyoverdine (Pvd), produced by Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The coordination properties of Pvd towards Cd(II) and Cu(II) were determined and the effect of Pvd supply was assessed on (i) the mobility (CaCl2 extractions), (ii) the phytoavailability (DGT measurements) and (iii) the phytoextraction of Cd and Cu, in a calcareous soil. The stability constant of Pvd-Cu (KL'Cu=10(20.1)) was found much higher than that of Pvd-Cd (KL'Cd=10(8.2)). The major finding was the agreement observed between Pvd coordination properties and Pvd impact on metals phytoextraction. Pyoverdine, supplied at 250 μmol kg(-1) soil, enhanced the mobility, the phytoavailability and the phytoextraction of Cu while the fate of Cd was not affected. All these results were compared to those reported for chelate-assisted phytoextraction. Their relevance in using SPB for phytoremediation is discussed.
A chimeric siderophore halts swarming Vibrio.	Some bacteria swarm under some circumstances; they move rapidly and collectively over a surface. In an effort to understand the molecular signals controlling swarming, we isolated two bacterial strains from the same red seaweed, Vibrio alginolyticus B522, a vigorous swarmer, and Shewanella algae B516, which inhibits V. alginolyticus swarming in its vicinity. Plate assays combined with NMR, MS, and X-ray diffraction analyses identified a small molecule, which was named avaroferrin, as a potent swarming inhibitor. Avaroferrin, a previously unreported cyclic dihydroxamate siderophore, is a chimera of two well-known siderophores: putrebactin and bisucaberin. The sequenced genome of S. algae revealed avaroferrin's biosynthetic gene cluster to be a mashup of putrebactin and bisucaberin biosynthetic genes. Avaroferrin blocks swarming through its ability to bind iron in a form that cannot be pirated by V. alginolyticus, thereby securing this essential resource for its producer.
Siderophores: structure and function of microbial iron transport compounds.	Siderophores are common products of aerobic and facultative anaerobic bacteria and of fungi. Elucidation of the molecular genetics of siderophore synthesis, and the regulation of this process by iron, has been facilitated by the fact that E. coli uses its own siderophores as well as those derived from other species, including fungi. Overproduction of the siderophore and its transport system at low iron is in this species well established to be the result of negative transcriptional repression, but the detailed mechanism may be positive in other organisms. Siderophores are transported across the double membrane envelope of E. coli via a gating mechanism linking the inner and outer membranes.
Novel pyoverdine biosynthesis gene(s) of Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO.	Conjugational mobilization of a Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 cosmid bank (in pMMB33) into a pyoverdine-deficient (pvd) mutant harbouring a mutation in the 47 min region of the chromosome yielded one clone which restored yellow-green pigmentation and fluorescence when grown on iron-deficient medium. The relevant pMMB33-derivative cosmid, pPYP17, contained a 15.1 kb insert which was subcloned into pKT240 as a 10.8 Sacl-CIal fragment conferring the same phenotype. This derivative, pPYP180, like pPYP17, also conferred an apparent wild-type phenotype on pvd mutants previously shown to map genetically in the 23 min region of the P. aeruginosa PAO chromosomes. Physical mapping indicated that the cloned DNA fragment is located at the 66-70 min region of the PAO chromosome, demonstrating that the restored apparent wild-type phenotype observed for the transconjugants was not the result of a true gene complementation. A gene interruption was obtained by replacing a 0.6 kb BgIll-BgIll region of pPYP180 necessary for the expression of the pigmentation/fluorescence phenotype, by a Hgr interposon (omega Hg). After conjugational transfer and introduction of the mutagenized fragment into the PAO1 chromosome by gene replacement, pyoverdine-deficient mutants were recovered, indicating that the fragment indeed contained at least one gene involved in pyoverdine synthesis. The yellow-green fluorescent compound produced by such cells harbouring plasmids pPYP17 or pPYP180 differed from pyoverdine in several aspects and was consequently named pseudoverdine. Although pseudoverdine was able to complex iron, it was unable to restore growth to pvd mutants in the presence of the iron chelator ethylenediamine di(o-hydroxyphenylacetic acid), or to mediate iron uptake into PAO1. Pseudoverdine lacked a peptide chain but possessed spectral properties similar to pyoverdine, suggesting that it was structurally related to the chromophore of the pyoverdine molecule. The recent structural determination of pseudoverdine as a coumarin derivative confirmed this view and sheds some light on the biosynthetic pathway of the pyoverdine chromophore.
Bacterial iron transport: 1H NMR determination of the three-dimensional structure of the gallium complex of pyoverdin G4R, the peptidic siderophore of Pseudomonas putida G4R.	Among the fluorescent Pseudomonas species, Pseudomonas putida is a rare case of a nitrogen-fixing bacterium that transforms nitrogen into ammonia. When grown under iron-deficient conditions, it produces two major pyoverdins: pyoverdin G4R and pyoverdin G4RA. Their primary structures have been established using FAB-MS and one- and two-dimensional 15N, 13C, and 1H NMR on both the unlabeled and 15N-labeled compounds [Salah El Din, A. L. M., et al. (1997) Tetrahedron 53, 12539-12552]. The two pyoverdins have a common chromophore derived from 2,3-diamino-6,7-dihydroxyquinoline. The chromophore is bound to the linear heptapeptide L-Asp-L-Orn-D-beta-threo-OHAsp-L-Dab-Gly-L-Ser-L-cyclo-OHOrn . Circular dichroism spectra suggest that the absolute configuration of the metal complex is Delta. The three-dimensional structure in solution of pyoverdin G4R-Ga(III) was determined after interpretation of two-dimensional 1H NMR spectra recorded at 283 and 303 K. The complex is tightly defined with a compact structure with a Delta absolute configuration. The site of complexation of the metal ion is found to be located on the surface of the molecule, showing that the ion can be released without large conformational changes, while the polar groups of the peptide chain, which may be responsible for the recognition of the receptor, are placed on the opposite side of the overall shape. The three-dimensional structure of pyoverdin G4R-Ga(III) is compared with those of other pyoverdins, and the role of the structure in iron uptake is discussed.
