Delayed nonurothelial metastatic lesions to the penis: a report of two cases.	Metastatic lesions to the penis are uncommon and originate most often from other genitourinary primaries. Diagnosis is usually easy, as the primary is already known in most cases. The metastases can very rarely be isolated and delayed for several years after the treatment of the primary tumor. We report two cases of penile metastases from nonurothelial primary lesions. A sigmoid adenocarcinoma was the primary in one case, a renal adenocarcinoma in the other. These two cases were distinctly unusual, as the metastases were delayed for several years after the treatment of the primary. Treatment was palliative with early death in both cases.
Immunoscintigraphy using radio-labeled monoclonal antibodies. Development of a method of cancer diagnosis and hopes for a new form of therapy]	Personal results are presented to illustrate the development of immunoscintigraphy for the detection of cancer over the last 12 years, from the early experimental results in nude mice grafted with human colon carcinoma to the most modern form of immunoscintigraphy applied to patients, using I123 labeled Fab fragments from monoclonal anti-CEA antibodies detected by single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT). The first generation of immunoscintigraphy used I131 labeled, immunoadsorbent purified, polyclonal anti-CEA antibodies and planar scintigraphy, as the detection system. The second generation used I131 labeled monoclonal anti-CEA antibodies and SPECT, while the third generation employed I123 labeled fragments of monoclonal antibodies and SPECT. The improvement in the precision of tumor images with the most recent forms of immunoscintigraphy is obvious. However, we think the usefulness of immunoscintigraphy for routine cancer management has not yet been entirely demonstrated. Further prospective trials are still necessary to determine the precise clinical role of immunoscintigraphy. A case report is presented on a patient with two liver metastases from a sigmoid carcinoma, who received through the hepatic artery a therapeutic dose (100 mCi) of I131 coupled to 40 mg of a mixture of two high affinity anti-CEA monoclonal antibodies. Excellent localisation in the metastases of the I131 labeled antibodies was demonstrated by SPECT and the treatment was well tolerated. The irradiation dose to the tumor, however, was too low at 4300 rads (with 1075 rads to the normal liver and 88 rads to the bone marrow), and no evidence of tumor regression was obtained. Different approaches for increasing the irradiation dose delivered to the tumor by the antibodies are considered.
Establishment and characterization of a cell line derived from human colon adenocarcinoma (HuCCL-14).	A continuous human colon carcinoma cell line (HuCCL-14) was established whose cells possess an epithelial-like morphology and are capable of growing in soft agar and on monolayers of normal cells. HuCCL-14 cells yielded high levels of carcinoembryonic antigen, and the analysis of their chromosomal constitution revealed a mode of 70 chromosomes per cell. HuCCL-14 cells produce malignant tumors when injected into nude mice. Preliminary virologic studies indicate the release of RNA particles having a density of 1.15--1.19 g/ml.
