Manipulating perceptions of colorectal cancer threat: implications for screening intentions and behaviors.	Affecting peoples' perceptions of the health threat of colorectal cancer (CRC), that is, the probability of the cancer's occurrence multiplied by the severity of the outcomes, has not been experimentally manipulated as a means to increase CRC screening intentions and behaviors. As an exploratory pilot study to inform a larger randomized trial on CRC screening, we used a four-group pre-post longitudinal design to test whether providing information about: 1) colorectal cancer risks (no/yes) and, 2) the severity of treatment and illness consequences (no/yes) affected CRC screening intentions (i.e., fecal occult blood test/sigmoidoscopy) and behaviors at a six-month follow-up. The sample consisted of 119 men and women aged 50 and older who were off schedule for having a fecal occult blood test (FOBT). Although perceptions of CRC risks were not affected by the experimental manipulations, perceived severity increased screening intentions for FOBT and lowered felt ambivalence towards FOBT. At the six-month follow-up, 31% participants had a FOBT. Participants who received severity information were significantly more likely to report having had a FOBT. These results suggest that: 1) more attention needs to be given to developing strategies to affect perception of CRC risk, and 2) increasing the perceived severity of CRC is an important construct to increase FOBT screening.
Screening in the era of economic crisis: misperceptions and misuse from a longitudinal study on Greek women undergoing benign vacuum-assisted breast biopsy.	To evaluate knowledge about screening tests and tests without proven screening value in a Greek Breast Unit population undergoing benign vacuum-assisted breast biopsy (VABB).
Evaluation of the knowledge, behavior and health beliefs of individuals over 50 regarding colorectal cancer screening.	The aim of the study was to evaluate of the knowledge, behavior and health beliefs of individuals over 50 regarding colorectal cancer screening, with a descriptive and cross-sectional design at Karabuk Life and Health Center in Turkey. A total of 160 people meeting set criteria were included in the study. The questionnaire consisted of two parts. The first part was composed of questions on characteristics of participants and the second part of questions derived from the Champion's Health Belief Model Scale. Only 15.0% of participants (n=24) had undergone a fecal occult blood test (FOBT), 11.3% (n=18) had had colonoscopy and 4.4% (n=7) had had sigmoidoscopy. Some 90.6% of the participants had low levels of risk awareness about the colorectal cancer. It was found that the average point of severity subscale of participants over 65 is higher than that of participants under 65 (p<0.05). In conclusion, because of the many barriers and health beliefs for the colorectal cancer screening program, the rate of participation in screening programs is not sufficient. Healthcare providers have important responsibilities for increasing rate of attendance in colorectal cancer screening programs. 
