Surviving heat shock: control strategies for robustness and performance.	Molecular biology studies the cause-and-effect relationships among microscopic processes initiated by individual molecules within a cell and observes their macroscopic phenotypic effects on cells and organisms. These studies provide a wealth of information about the underlying networks and pathways responsible for the basic functionality and robustness of biological systems. At the same time, these studies create exciting opportunities for the development of quantitative and predictive models that connect the mechanism to its phenotype then examine various modular structures and the range of their dynamical behavior. The use of such models enables a deeper understanding of the design principles underlying biological organization and makes their reverse engineering and manipulation both possible and tractable The heat shock response presents an interesting mechanism where such an endeavor is possible. Using a model of heat shock, we extract the design motifs in the system and justify their existence in terms of various performance objectives. We also offer a modular decomposition that parallels that of traditional engineering control architectures.
Labile disulfide bonds and free thiol groups in human IgG. III. The "sigma S value" in gynecologic neoplasms]	The immunoglobulins G contain labile disulfide bonds which can easily be opened by dithionitrobenzoic acid in the subclass G1, and free SH groups in the subclass G2. The "sigma S value" is a photometrically determined quantitative measure of both groups added together. 57 cases of different gynaecological malignant tumours gave a mean sigma S value of 1.02 +/- 0.24 and 7 cases of stage 0 a sigma S of 1.05 +/- 0.25, whereas in 45 cases of benign diseases the sigma S was found to be 1.45 +/- 0,21. The difference between the values in the malignant and benign cases was highly significant (p less than 0.001). The sigma S in the benign cases lies within the normal range ascertained with healthy serum donors. These results are in accordance with results formerly obtained with malignant tumours in other locations. This leads us to the assumption that the shift in sigma S may be functionally and/or symptomatically associated with malignancy. The decrease in sigma S is interpreted in terms of a decrease in the percentage of subclass G1 in the total IgG.
Evidence that sigma factors are components of chloroplast RNA polymerase.	Plastid genes are transcribed by DNA-dependent RNA polymerase(s), which have been incompletely characterized and have been examined in a limited number of species. Plastid genomes contain rpoA, rpoB, rpoC1, and rpoC2 coding for alpha, beta, beta', and beta" RNA polymerase subunits that are homologous to the alpha, beta, and beta' subunits that constitute the core moiety of RNA polymerase in bacteria. However, genes with homology to sigma subunits in bacteria have not been found in plastid genomes. An antibody directed against the principal sigma subunit of RNA polymerase from the cyanobacterium Anabaena sp. PCC 7120 was used to probe western blots of purified chloroplast RNA polymerase from maize, rice, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, and Cyanidium caldarium. Chloroplast RNA polymerase from maize and rice contained an immunoreactive 64-kD protein. Chloroplast RNA polymerase from C. reinhardtii contained immunoreactive 100- and 82-kD proteins, and chloroplast RNA polymerase from C. caldarium contained an immunoreactive 32-kD protein. The elution profile of enzyme activity of both algal chloroplast RNA polymerases coeluted from DEAE with the respective immunoreactive proteins, indicating that they are components of the enzyme. These results provide immunological evidence for sigma-like factors in chloroplast RNA polymerase in higher plants and algae.
Mutations in pts cause catabolite-resistant sporulation and altered regulation of spo0H in Bacillus subtilis.	A mutation in Bacillus subtilis, ggr-31, that relieves glucose-glutamine-dependent control of a spoVG-lacZ translational fusion was isolated and was subsequently found to confer a pleiotropic phenotype. Mutants cultured in glucose- and glutamine-rich media exhibited a Crs- (catabolite-resistant sporulation) phenotype; enhanced expression of the spo0H gene, encoding sigma H, as evidenced by immunoblot analysis with anti-sigma H antiserum; and derepression of srfA, an operon involved in surfactin biosynthesis and competence development. In addition, ggr-31 mutants exhibited a significant increase in generation time when they were cultured in minimal glucose medium. The mutant phenotype was restored to the wild type by Campbell integration of a plasmid containing part of the ptsG (encoding the enzyme II/III glucose permease) gene, indicating that the mutation probably resides within ptsG and adversely affects glucose uptake. A deletion mutation within ptsI exhibited a phenotype similar to that of ggr-31.
