An evaluation of the antireflux properties of sodium alginate by means of combined multichannel intraluminal impedance and pH-metry.	Alginate-based preparations act as mechanical antireflux barrier, which can reduce both acid and non-acid reflux events and limit the proximal migration of oesophageal refluxate.
Gaviscon and Carobel compared with cisapride in gastro-oesophageal reflux.	We compared the efficacy of the prokinetic agent cisapride with that of Gaviscon (an alginate/alkaline compound) plus Carobel (carob seed flour) in the treatment of gastrooesophageal reflux (GOR). Fifty infants with confirmed GOR received either oral cisapride (0.8 mg/kg/day) or Gaviscon plus Carobel for one month in a randomised, parallel group study. Parental evaluations, diary scores, and 24 hour lower oesophageal pH recordings before and at the end of each treatment were compared. In the cisapride group 14/26 (53%) were considered better by their parents compared with 19/24 (79%) of those who received Gaviscon plus Carobel. Diary scores, range (0.00-1.00), improved in both groups with the median change being greater in the Gaviscon plus Carobel group (-0.21) than the cisapride group (-0.15). Five of 17 pH variables had significantly improved from baseline in infants who had received cisapride compared with 11/17 in those receiving Gaviscon plus Carobel. However, unpaired analysis of diary and pH data showed no significant differences between the two groups. We conclude that first line treatment of GOR with cisapride is no more effective than conventional treatment with Gaviscon plus Carobel.
Radiocolloids in the management of hemophilic arthropathy in children and adolescents.	Radiocolloids have been used in the treatment of hemophilic arthropathy. Fifty-eight joints of 35 patients were injected with 2-5 mCi of yttrium-90 silicate under local anesthesia. A preinjection arthrogram was performed to ensure correct placement of the needle. Plaster of paris cast immobilization of the joint was used for three days. After a mean follow-up period of seven years (range, two to 12 years), 47 joints were pain free, and 13 joints had not experienced another hemorrhagic episode. The mean hemorrhagic frequency had decreased from four per month to two per year. The radiation risk was far outweighed by the benefits of the procedure. Forty-seven of the 58 joints were rated as improved by the patients. The roentgenographic appearance of the joints had changed little. Only five complications occurred: three needle-track necroses because of extravasation of the radiocolloid, two severely painful joints immediately after injection, and one massive hemorrhagic episode. This form of treatment is suggested for hemophiliacs who have failed to respond to intensive physical and hematologic therapy, and for those patients who have inhibitors.
Abrasion, polishing, and stain removal characteristics of various commercial dentifrices in vitro.	To evaluate, using conventional in vitro procedures, the abrasivity, enamel polishing properties, and stain removal effectiveness of various commercial dentifrices that have a variety of compositions and are marketed for cleaning, whitening, and/or polishing capabilities, and to examine their relationships between stain removal and abrasivity.
Assessment of the effects of a stannous fluoride dentifrice on gingivitis in a two-month positive-controlled clinical study.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the anti-gingivitis effectiveness of a 0.454% stannous fluoride test dentifrice relative to a marketed positive-control triclosan-containing dentifrice in adults with gingivitis.
Randomised clinical efficacy trial of potassium oxalate mouthrinse in relieving dentinal sensitivity.	The study aimed to determine the efficacy in relieving dentinal sensitivity of 4 weeks' treatment with an alcohol-free mouthrinse comprising 1.4% potassium oxalate (KO) (Listerine® Advanced Defence Sensitive; LADS), compared with negative and positive controls.
Sucralfate versus alginate/antacid in the treatment of peptic esophagitis.	Fifty patients in whom endoscopy revealed peptic esophagitis were included in a double-blind study in which either sucralfate (1 g four times a day) or an alginate/antacid compound (5 g four times a day) were randomly assigned. After six weeks of treatment, efficacy and clinical safety were evaluated in 23 patients in the sucralfate group and 22 patients in the alginate/antacid group. No significant difference between the two treatments was detected with regard to efficacy, evaluated on the basis of clinical and endoscopic criteria. Clinical safety was also good in both groups. Sucralfate was, therefore, found to be as effective and as well tolerated as the alginate/antacid compound in the treatment of peptic esophagitis.
