Flow cytometric study of in vitro neutrophil activation by biomaterials.	Neutrophil activation for adherent and nonadherent cells, as measured by flow cytometry, was not strongly dependent on material surface chemistry. We had hypothesized that material-induced neutrophil activation was an important parameter associated with material failure. All materials tested [cellophane, an acrylonitrile copolymer (AN69), Pellethane, nylon, polyethylene terephthalate, low density polyethylene, and polydimethylsiloxane] activated isolated human neutrophils, which were resuspended in plasma or serum, to similar extents based on L-selectin shedding, CD11b upregulation, and stimulation of the oxidative burst after 30-min exposure. Inhibition of complement activation by sCR1 unexpectedly had little effect if any on nonadherent neutrophils. However, neutrophil adhesion, but not the level of activation of the adherent cells, was strongly dependent on complement activation. Pretreatment with albumin did not inhibit adhesion or reduce neutrophil activation, but plasma pretreatment resulted in increased activation for nonadherent and adherent cells. More adhesion and a higher level of activation of adherent cells was observed following pretreatment with fibrinogen, a ligand of CD11b. Taken together these results suggest that upon contact with a material, neutrophil activation may occur though mechanisms that are not mediated by complement. For example, the presence of plasma proteins such as fibrinogen at the interface may trigger activation and the release of other activating agents. Although the material differences are small, the extent of activation may be significant and warrant further study of the mechanism and consequences of that activation.
Corneal epithelial cell biocompatibility to silicone hydrogel and conventional hydrogel contact lens packaging solutions.	Although all contact lenses (CLs) are applied initially to the eye directly from a packaging solution, little is known about the effects of these solutions on human corneal epithelial cells (HCECs). Due to the porous nature of CL materials, they have the potential to sorb components of the packaging solution during storage, which could then be subsequently released upon insertion of the CL on the eye. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of various packaging solutions on HCECs, using an in vitro model.
One-dimensional patterning of cells in silicone wells via compression-induced fracture.	We have adapted our existing compression-induced fracture technology to cell culture studies by generating linear patterns on a complex cell culture well structure rather than on simple solid constructs. We present a simple method to create one-dimensional (1D), submicron, and linear patterns of extracellular matrix on a multilayer silicone material. We identified critical design parameters necessary to optimize compression-induced fracture patterning on the wells, and applied stresses using compression Hoffman clamps. Finite-element analyses show that the incorporation of the well improves stress homogeneity (stress variation = 25%), and, thus, crack uniformity over the patterned region. Notably, a shallow well with a thick base (vs. deeper wells with thinner bases) reduces out-of-plane deflections by greater than a sixth in the cell culture region, improving clarity for optical imaging. The comparison of cellular and nuclear shape indices of a neuroblast line cultured on patterned 1D lines and unpatterned 2D surfaces reveals significant differences in cellular morphology, which could impact many cellular functions. Because 1D cell cultures recapitulate many important phenotypical traits of 3D cell cultures, our culture system offers a simple means to further study the relationship between 1D and 3D cell culture environments, without demanding expensive engineering techniques and expertise.
Evaluation of a new silicone adhesive tape among clinicians caring for patients with fragile or at-risk skin.	To evaluate performance of a new silicone tape among clinicians caring for patients with fragile skin.
The effect of liquid silicone on the corneal endothelium in rabbits. A comparative specular microscopic and histopathologic study.	Specular microscopic and histopathologic findings in the corneal endothelium were compared after the injection of liquid silicone into the anterior chamber of both eyes in 15 rabbits. The findings demonstrated serious damage to the endothelium in the area of contact of liquid silicone with the posterior surface of the cornea and disclosed some problems in the interpretation of specular microscopic findings. An abnormal endothelial mosaic can be probably found even in a zone of preserved intercellular borders or in a zone with a relief of the bases of extinct endothelial cells.
Effect of cimetidine and antacid on gastric microbial flora.	The effect of a standard regimen of cimetidine on the gastric flora of 20 male volunteers was studied in a double-blind manner and compared with the effects of a standard antacid regimen. Postprandial microbial titers in gastric aspirates were significantly higher at 4, 8, and 16 weeks of therapy in subjects taking antacids and at 4 weeks in subjects taking cimetidine when compared with their pretreatment titers. Although not significant, there was a tendency for fasting microbial titers to be higher in subjects receiving cimetidine as compared with pretreatment titers. The higher titers were primarily related to increases in survival of mouth flora (viridans streptococci and Neisseria spp.); Enterobacteriaceae and other nitrate-reducing organisms were unusual isolates. There was no significant difference in the total titers or types of organisms isolated when subjects taking cimetidine were compared with those taking antacid.
The effect of activated dimethicone, other antacid constituents, and kaolin on the absorption of propranolol.	A study was made of the effect of 6 commonly used gastrointestinal preparations on the absorption of propranolol using an in vitro experimental model. The constituents examined were activated dimethicone, aluminium hydroxide gel, bismuth carbonate, kaolin, magnesium carbonate, and magnesium trisilicate. A slight decreased propranolol absorption was given by kaolin (-13.0%), the other components showed smaller effects ranging from -6.8% to +6.6%. None of the results were statistically significantly different from control absorption values.
