Open tubular capillary electrochromatography in etched, chemically modified 20 microns I.D. capillaries.	Fused silica capillaries with an I.D. of 20 microns are etched and then chemically modified by the silanization/hydrosilation method to attach an octadecyl moiety for use in electrokinetic chromatography. The etched capillaries after chemical modification are shown to have an anodic electroosmotic flow below pH 4.5. In comparison to bare 20 microns capillaries and unetched but chemically modified 20 microns capillaries, the etched C18 fused silica tubes show better separation of mixtures of lysozymes and cytochrome c's under identical conditions of buffer, pH and applied voltage. It was also demonstrated that this open tubular approach to capillary electrochromatography was amenable to a number of different types of basic compounds ranging in size from typical small amines to biomolecules. As expected, pH is an important variable that must be controlled in order to obtain an optimized separation. Reproducibility studies verify the stability of the silicon-carbon linkage produced in this modification method so that column lifetimes of at least 300 injections can be expected.
Longevity of extensive class II open-sandwich restorations with a resin-modified glass-ionomer cement.	Several new techniques have been introduced for use in the esthetic restoration of posterior cavities to substitute for the presumed toxicity of amalgam. Composite-laminated glass-ionomer cement restorations, the sandwich technique, have been recommended for caries-risk patients. Clinical evaluation of the use of conventional glass-ionomer cements in the open-sandwich restoration has shown a high failure rate. The aim of this study was to evaluate the durability and cariostatic effect of a modified open-sandwich restoration utilizing a resin-modified glass-ionomer cement (RMGIC) in large cavities. The materials consisted of 274 mostly extensive Class II Vitremer/Z100 restorations performed by four dentists in 168 adults. Six experimental groups were investigated. In four groups a thick and in two groups a thin layer of cement was placed. Cavity conditioning before application of the RMGIC self-etching primer was done in 3 groups with polyacrylic acid and in one group with maleic acid; in two groups, only water rinsing was performed. The restorations were evaluated at baseline and after 6, 12, 24, and 36 months according to modified USPHS criteria (van Dijken, 1986). After 3 years, 239 restorations were evaluated. Twelve (5%) were estimated as non-acceptable. Two were replaced, and seven were repaired with resin composite. Tooth fractures were observed in 2.5%. Slight erosion of the RMGIC part was seen in 4%, and in one case operative treatment was indicated. Post-operative sensitivity was reported for 9 teeth. Forty-three percent of the patients were considered as caries-risk patients. Only one restoration showed secondary caries. The three-year results indicated that the modified open-sandwich restoration is an appropriate alternative to amalgam including extensive restorations.
Isolation of bovine neutrophils with biomagnetic beads: comparison with standard Percoll density gradient isolation methods.	A prerequisite for studies on bovine neutrophils is a reliable method of neutrophil isolation from blood to obtain highly purified cell populations that are functionally active. Since current techniques of neutrophil isolation fall short of these requirements, we have developed a newer and more effective technique for isolation of bovine neutrophils that utilizes biomagnetic beads coated with a monoclonal antibody that recognizes an abundant surface antigen on bovine neutrophils to purify these cells. Comparison of the purity and viability of bovine neutrophils isolated by a conventional method (continuous Percoll density gradient) with this new method showed that neutrophils isolated with biomagnetic beads were higher in purity and had an increased yield. In addition, cells isolated with biomagnetic beads demonstrated normal or even improved function in assays of chemotaxis, phagocytosis, degranulation, and respiratory burst activity. Finally, bovine neutrophils isolated using this method showed an overall lower level of spontaneous apoptosis, which correlates well with the high level of viability observed in the purified cell preparations. Thus, this method represents a significant advance over current methods for isolating bovine neutrophils and would be widely applicable to labs studying the biochemistry and signal transduction pathways in these cells.
Preservation of biological information in thermal spring deposits:  developing a strategy for the search for fossil life on Mars.	Current interpretations of the early history of Mars suggest many similarities with the early Earth and therefore raise the possibility that the Archean and Proterozoic history of life on Earth could have a counterpart on Mars.  Terrestrial experience suggests that, with techniques that can be employed remotely, ancient springs, including thermal springs, could well yield important information.  By delivering water and various dissolved species to the sunlit surface of Mars, springs very likely created an environment suitable for life, which could have been difficult, if not impossible, to attain elsewhere.  The chemical and temperature gradients associated with thermal springs sort organisms into sharply delineated, distinctive and different communities, and so diverse organisms are concentrated into relatively small areas in a predictable and informative fashion.  A wide range of metabolic strategies are concentrated into small areas, thus furnishing a useful and representative sampling of the existing biota.  Mineral-charged springwaters frequently deposit chemical precipitates of silica and/or carbonate which incorporate microorganisms and preserve them as fossils.  The juxtaposition of stream valley headwaters with volcanoes and impact craters on Mars strongly implies that subsurface heating of groundwater created thermal springs.  On Earth, thermal springs create distinctive geomorphic features and chemical signatures which can be detected by remote sensing.  Spring deposits can be quite different chemically from adjacent rocks.  Individual springs can be hundreds of meters wide, and complexes of springs occupy areas up to several kilometers wide.  Benthic microbial mats and the resultant stromatolites occupy a large fraction of the available area.  The relatively high densities of fossils and microbial mat fabrics within these deposits make them highly prospective in any search for morphological evidence of life, and there are examples of microbial fossils in spring deposits as old as 300 Myr.
Polyethylene fiber tape used as a post and core in decayed primary anterior teeth: a treatment option.	The early loss of the anterior primary teeth can cause problems in phonation, development of the maxilla and is related to deleterious habits. This case presents the clinical sequence of rehabilitation of upper anterior primary teeth, where endodontic treatments were done. This was followed by the construction of root post using polyethylene ribbon fibers and the fabrication of crowns composed of resin.
On-site solid-phase extraction and laboratory analysis of ultra-trace synthetic musks in municipal sewage effluent using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry in the full-scan mode.	Fragrance materials such as synthetic musks in aqueous samples, are normally determined by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry in the selected ion monitoring (SIM) mode to provide maximum sensitivity after liquid-liquid extraction of 1-1 samples. Full-scan mass spectra are required to verify that a target analyte has been found by comparison with the mass spectra of fragrance compounds in the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) mass spectral library. A 1-1 sample usually provides insufficient analyte for full scan data acquisition. This paper describes an on-site extraction method developed at the US Environmental Protection Agency (Las Vegas, NV, USA) for synthetic musks from 60 l of wastewater effluent. Such a large sample volume permits high-quality, full-scan mass spectra to be obtained for a wide array of synthetic musks. Quantification of these compounds was achieved from the full-scan data directly, without the need to acquire SIM data. The detection limits obtained with this method are an order of magnitude lower than those obtained from liquid-liquid and other solid-phase extraction methods. This method is highly reproducible, and recoveries ranged from 80 to 97% in spiked sewage treatment plant effluent. The high rate of sorbent-sample mass transfer eliminated the need for a methanolic activation step, which reduced extraction time, labor, and solvent use. More samples could be extracted in the field at lower cost. After sample extraction, the light-mass cartridges are easily transported and stored.
Influence of eugenol-containing temporary restorations on bond strength of composite to dentin.	This study investigated the influence of eugenol-containing temporary restorations on bond strength of composite to dentin. Thirty-two freshly extracted human molars were embedded and horizontally sectioned at a level 2 mm from the central fossa to obtain a flat dentin surface. The teeth were randomly divided into four groups of eight teeth. Specimens in Group 1 (control) received no pre-treatment with any temporary restorations. Group 2 and 3 specimens were covered with IRM (eugenol-containing) mixed at powder: liquid (P:L) ratio of 10 g: 1 g and 10 g: 2 g, respectively. Specimens in Group 4 were covered with polycarboxylate cement (eugenol-free) mixed at a P:L ratio of 2.85 g: 1 g. The temporary restorations were mechanically removed with an ultrasonic scaler after one-week storage in distilled water at 37 degrees C. The dentin surfaces were cleaned with pumice-water slurry and treated with Scotchbond Multi-Purpose Plus bonding system according to manufacturer's instructions. Composite (Z100) columns (3 mm diameter, 2 mm high) were applied and shear bond testing was carried out after 24 hours storage in distilled water at 37 degrees C using an Instron Universal testing machine with a cross-head speed of 0.5 mm/minute. The mode of failure was examined using a stereomicroscope at X40 magnification. Results were analyzed using one-way ANOVA/Scheffes's post-hoc test at significance level 0.05. Ranking of bond strengths was as follows: Group 1 (22.58 MPa) > Group 2 (21.14 MPa) > Group 4 (15.35 MPa) > Group 3 (13.02 MPa). Group 3 had significantly lower bond strength than Groups 1 and 2. No significant difference in dentin bond strength was observed between the Group 1 (control) and Groups 2 and 4. Although the predominant mode of failure for Groups 1, 2 and 4 was cohesive in dentin, all specimens in Group 3 exhibited adhesive failure. Pre-treatment with polycarboxylate cement or IRM mixed at P:L ratio of 10 g: 1 g did not affect shear bond strength of composite to dentin. IRM mixed at a lower P:L ratio of 10 g: 2 g significantly decreased bond strength.
Resin-tooth adhesive interfaces after long-term function.	To characterize with scanning electron microscopy (SEM), the morphology of adhesive interfaces that had been functioning in an oral cavity for several years.
Effect of exposure intensity and post-cure temperature storage on hardness of contemporary photo-activated composites.	The effect of variation in post-exposure storage temperature (18 vs. 37 degrees C) and light intensity (200 vs. 500mW/cm(2)) on micro-hardness of seven light-activated resin composite materials, cured with a Prismetics Mk II (Dentsply) light activation unit, were studied.
Viral transport in a sand and gravel aquifer under field pumping conditions.	Ground water supplies contaminated with microbes cause more than 50% of the water-borne disease outbreaks in the United States. Proposed regulations suggest natural disinfection as a possible mechanism to treat microbe-impacted ground water under favorable conditions. However, the usefulness of current models employed to predict viral transport and natural attenuation rates is limited by the absence of field scale calibration data. At a remote floodplain aquifer in western Montana, the bacteriophages MS2, phiX174, and PRD1; attenuated poliovirus type-1 (CHAT strain); and bromide were seeded as a slug 21.5 m from a well pumping at a steady rate of 408 L/min. Over the 47-hour duration of the test, resulting in the exchange of 12 to 13 pore volumes, 77% of the bromide, 55% of the PRD1, 17% of the MS2, 7% of the phiX174, and 0.12% of the poliovirus masses were recovered at the pumping well. Virus transport behavior was controlled by mechanical dispersion, preferential flow, time-dependent nonreversible and reversible attachment, and apparent mass transfer to immobile domains within the sand and gravel dominated aquifer. The percentage of virus recovery appears correlated with reported viral isoelectric point (pI) values. Successful modeling of viral transport in coarse-grained aquifers will require separation of viral specific properties from reported lumped viral-transport system parameters.
DNA properties investigated by dynamic force microscopy.	In this work, we show that by varying the experimental conditions, the driving amplitude, a dynamic force microscope allows DNA properties to be selectively imaged. The substrate on which the DNA is fixed is a silica surface grafted with silane molecules terminated with amine groups. Use of small oscillation amplitudes favors the attractive interaction between the tip and the sample, while the use of large amplitudes renders the contribution of the attractive interaction negligible. In particular, at small amplitudes, the images show that the attractive interaction is strongly enhanced along the DNA. This enhancement is found to be amenable with a model considering a narrow strip of randomly oriented dipoles on each side of the molecule. This work should provide new insights on the DNA interaction and conformational changes with localized charges.
beta-Casein adsorption at the silicon oxide--aqueous solution interface.	Neutron reflectometry was used to investigate the time-dependent beta-casein adsorption at the silica-aqueous solution interface. The transient and steady-state structural characteristics of the adsorbed layer were determined from reflectivity curves, fitted to three-layer and two-layer models. The results show that the beta-casein adsorption to silica is very slow. The adsorption process involves the formation of an inner dense protein layer with a mean thickness of about 30 A onto which a more hydrated outer layer is self-associated. The surface excess and the total layer thickness of the asymmetric bilayer were, after 5 h adsorption time, estimated to be about 6.5 mg/m2 and 105 A, respectively. The adsorption behavior observed on silica contrasts with that previously reported for hydrophobic substrates, where beta-casein adsorption is much more rapid and the final surface excess is less than half of that observed for silica. Rinsing the silica surface with protein-free buffer resulted in a substantial desorption; much more pronounced than observed for hydrophobic substrates. This behavior suggests a weak adsorption affinity for a fraction of the adsorbed casein molecules; most likely the outer self-associated casein molecules in the adsorbed bilayer. The comparative desorption from hydrophobic surfaces was shown to be marginal. The difference between the layer structures adopted on hydrophobic and hydrophilic surfaces is also mirrored in the effects that the addition of a specific proteolytic enzyme (endoproteinase Asp-N) has on the adsorbed layer properties. The rinsing and endoproteinase cleavage processes result together in more than 80% reduction of the originally adsorbed mass at the silica surface. Only a thin but dense adsorbed layer remains after these treatments. The corresponding reduction reported for the hydrophobic adsorbent system was only about 20%. It is concluded that beta-casein adsorption on silica results in the formation of an asymmetric surface bound bilayer that stands in strong contrast to the monolayer structure formed at hydrophobic surfaces. This finding support the previous results obtained by using ellipsometry. The study also shows that neutron reflection, despite its limitations in time resolution, can be used for studying dynamic interfacial phenomena in protein systems.
Comparison of the capabilities of liquid isoelectric focusing-one-dimensional nonporous silica reversed-phase liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry and liquid isoelectric focusing-one-dimensional sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis mass mapping for the analysis of intact protein molecular masses.	Nonporous silica reversed-phase HPLC coupled to electrospray ionization with on-line time-of-flight mass spectrometric detection (NPS-RP-HPLC-ESI-TOF-MS) is shown to be an effective liquid phase method for obtaining the molecular masses of proteins from pH fractionated cellular lysates where the method is capable of generating the same banding patterns typically observed using gel phase one-dimensional sodium dodecyl sulfatepolyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The liquid-phase mass spectrometry-based method provides a mass accuracy of at least 150 ppm, with 4000 mass resolution and provides improved sensitivity as the protein molecular mass (MW) decreases. The liquid and gel phase methods are shown to be complementary in terms of their mass range but the liquid phase method has the advantage over the gel method in that the analysis times are 50 times shorter, the mass accuracy is 70 times better and the resolution is 130 times higher. The liquid phase method is shown to be more effective for detection of proteins below 40 kDa, while the gel phase separation can access many more proteins, including more hydrophobic proteins, at increasing MW.
Local photolysis using tapered quartz fibres.	We describe a versatile, low-cost photolysis system in which sub-millisecond flashes generated by a xenon flash lamp are conveyed through a silica fibre directly onto a cell. The fibre, which is tapered to a sub-micrometre diameter and sputtered with chromium and aluminium, illuminates an area of about 1 microm2. Site and timing of photolysis can be chosen independently from other experimental parameters. As an application example we show the spatially heterogeneous distribution of Ca2+-dependent Cl- channels in olfactory receptor neurons.
Simulation of space cabin atmosphere.	The Soyuz 22 space cabin atmosphere was studied for volatile organic trace contaminants. By gas chromatography the following constituents were identified: methane, ethane, heptane, methanol, ethanol, n-propanol, acetaldehyde, acetone, ethyl benzene. Except for acetone, concentrations of the above compounds were close to the values determined in the mock-up experiments.
Influence of different softstart polymerization techniques on marginal adaptation of Class V restorations.	To investigate the influence of different curing methods used to achieve softstart polymerization on the marginal adaptation of a resin-based composite in Class V restoration.
The volumetric fraction of inorganic particles and the flexural strength of composites for posterior teeth.	To evaluate the content of inorganic particles and the flexural strength of new condensable composites for posterior teeth in comparison to hybrid conventional composites.
Survival and recovery of Listeria monocytogenes on ready-to-eat meats inoculated with a desiccated and nutritionally depleted dustlike vector.	Dust from construction was theorized to serve as a vector for L. monocytogenes transmission to ready-to-eat (RTE) meats after heat processing but before packaging. A five-strain Listeria monocytogenes culture including serotype 4b was continually stressed on a sand vector under four sets of nutritionally depleted and dry conditions to simulate postprocessing contamination by dustlike particulates. The stresses included that associated with sand stored at different temperatures (10 and 22 degrees C) and levels of humidity (40% relative humidity [RH], 88% RH, or complete desiccation). Irradiated RTE meats, including frankfurters, bologna, chopped ham, and deli-style roast beef, were inoculated with the L. monocytogenes-contaminated sand every 2 to 3 days over a period of 1 1/2 months. After inoculation, the RTE meats were vacuum packed and stored at 4 degrees C for 24 h. Populations of L. monocytogenes were enumerated by surface plating on nonselective and selective media to recover cells on the basis of the different stresses presented (osmotic or antibiotic). L. monocytogenes was demonstrated to be capable of surviving on the sand vector for > 151 days at 10 degrees C and 88% RH, 136 days at 10 degrees C and 0% RH, 73 days at 22 degrees C and 40% RH, and 82 days at 22 degrees C and 0% RH. These results show that under the most conservative scenario, the 73-day-old L. monocytogenes-contaminated sand was able to attach to and be recovered from the RTE meats. This study illustrated that dust contaminated with L. monocytogenes, once in contact with meat surfaces, can survive and grow, posing a health hazard to consumers.
The maintenance and preservation of keratinophilic fungi and related dermatophytes.	A total of 239 fungi belonging to nine genera and 23 species were maintained on agar slopes in a refrigerator at +8 +/- 1 degrees C and in sterile distilled water, under liquid paraffin, dried on silica gel, in sterile soil at room temperature. A limited number has been stored by freeze-drying between 1985 and 1998. It is recommended that each isolate should be maintained by at least two of these methods. The choice of the method will depend to a large extent on the equipment and facilities available in the laboratory. It is reported that simple methods can be used for preservation of keratinophilic fungi and related dermatophytes.
A toxicity view of the pesticide picloram when immobilized onto a silica gel surface.	The pesticide picloram (4-amino-3,5,6-trichloropicolinic acid) was anchored onto silica gel to yield a new surface. Isothermal microcalorimetry was applied to study the toxic effects caused to microbial activity of a typical Brazilian agricultural soil by application of free and immobilized picloram. The activity of the microorganisms in 1.50 g of soil sample was stimulated by addition of 6.0 mg of glucose plus 6.0 mg of ammonium sulfate under 34.8% controlled humidity at 298.15+/-0.02 K. The activity was recorded through power-time curves for increasing amounts of the active principle, varying from zero to 10.00 microg g(-1). The increasing amounts of picloram, either free or immobilized, caused a decrease of the original thermal effect. The calorimetric data showed that the anchored pesticide presented a much lower toxic effect than the free picloram on the microbial activity.
Virus retention and transport as influenced by different forms of soil organic matter.	Organic materials are widespread in natural soil and aquatic environments. Their effect on virus transport is very important in assessing the risk for contamination of ground water by viruses. This study aimed to determine how different forms (mineral-associated and dissolved) of natural organic matter influence the retention and transport of two bacteriophages (MS-2 and phiX174) in two porous media (a sand and a soil). We found that mineral-associated organic matter significantly promoted the transport of one virus (MS-2) but not the other (phiX174) in a phosphate-buffered saline solution. Similarly, MS-2 was retained less in sand columns with increasing concentrations of dissolved humic acid, while little effect was observed for phiX174 under the same conditions. The two viruses have different surface properties and thus exhibited different reactivity to the metal oxides present on sand particles and were affected differently by organic matter. Because the organic matter used in the study was negatively charged and hydrophilic, blocking of virus sorption sites and increasing of virus-medium electrostatic repulsion arising from modification of the sand and virus surface by organic matter are probably responsible for the facilitated transport. For dissolved humic acid, its competition for sorption sites with viruses was an additional mechanism involved. This study suggests that the effect of organic matter varied depending on the organic material properties and the type of viruses involved. As a general trend, the effect of organic matter was dominated by electrostatic rather than hydrophobic interactions.
Responses of red-osier dogwood to oil sands tailings treated with gypsum or alum.	The application of composite or consolidated tailings (CT) technology provides Alberta's oil sands industry with a means of reducing the volume of the fines fraction in extraction tailings and allows for faster reclamation and revegetation of mining sites. This study examined the effects of coagulant aids (gypsum and alum), used in the production of CT, on the ion content, growth, and survival of greenhouse-grown red-osier dogwood (Cornus sericea L. subsp. sericea). Seedlings were planted in gypsum-CT and alum-CT substrates, and compared with those planted in reclamation material (salvaged peat and till). The seedlings were bottom-watered with one of the following: (i) Hoagland mineral solution prepared in deionized water (Epstein, 1972); (ii) Hoagland solution in gypsum-based CT release water; or (iii) Hoagland solution in alum-based CT release water. Pore water of CT substrates and CT release waters had similar chemical characteristics, including salinity levels. However, plants in CT substrates had higher concentrations of ions (particularly Na and B), reduced growth, and higher mortality than plants in reclamation material and treated with CT waters. The presence of H2S indicated low-oxygen conditions in the CT substrates, while in the reclamation materials with CT release water treatments, no evidence of sulfides was observed. Low-oxygen conditions in the CT substrate treatments may have interfered with plant exclusion mechanisms for Na and B. Therefore, substrate properties may modify responses of reclamation plants to pore water chemistry due to the effects on oxygen availability to roots.
Field trials to assess the uptake of arsenic by vegetables from contaminated soils and soil remediation with iron oxides.	The uptake of arsenic (As) by plants from contaminated soils presents a health hazard that may affect the use of agricultural and former industrial land. Methods for limiting the hazard are desirable. A proposed remediation treatment comprises the precipitation of iron (Fe) oxides in the contaminated soil by adding ferrous sulfate and lime. The effects on As bioavailability were assessed using a range of vegetable crops grown in the field. Four UK locations were used, where soil was contaminated by As from different sources. At the most contaminated site, a clay loam containing a mean of 748 mg As kg(-1) soil, beetroot, calabrese, cauliflower, lettuce, potato, radish and spinach were grown. For all crops except spinach, ferrous sulfate treatment caused a significant reduction in the bioavailability of As in some part of the crop. Application of ferrous sulfate in solution, providing 0.2% Fe oxides in the soil (0-10 cm), reduced As uptake by a mean of 22%. Solid ferrous sulfate was applied to give concentrations of 0.5% and 1% Fe oxides: the 0.5% concentration reduced As uptake by a mean of 32% and the 1% concentration gave no significant additional benefit. On a sandy loam containing 65 mg As kg(-1) soil, there was tentative evidence that ferrous sulfate treatment up to 2% Fe oxides caused a significant reduction in lettuce As, but calabrese did not respond. At the other two sites, the effects of ferrous sulfate treatment were not significant, but the uptake of soil As was low in treated and untreated soils. Differences between sites in the bioavailable fraction of soil As may be related to the soil texture or the source of As. The highest bioavailability was found on the soil which had been contaminated by aerial deposition and had a high sand content.
Modification of ion chromatographic separations by ionic and nonionic surfactants.	New findings are reported on simple ways to modify an ordinary HPLC column to obtain efficient ion chromatographic (IC) separations. Permanently coating a column with an ionic surfactant is known to produce an effective column for IC. We now show that incorporation of a nonionic surfactant in the coating, or coating in separate layers, results in a dramatic reduction of ion retention times and gives sharper peaks. Dynamic coating by incorporating a small amount of an alcohol, diol or zwitterion in the aqueous mobile phase permits good separations of alkanecarboxylic acids. A mobile phase containing a quaternary ammonium cation and a zwitterion anion provides excellent separations of common anions on a silica C18 column. An aqueous eluent containing a mixture of a zwitterion 4-(2-hydroxyethyl) acid and methanesulfonic acid can be used in conjunction with a standard cation exchange column. After passing through a membrane suppressor, the mobile phase has a slightly acidic pH, permitting divalent transition metal ions (as well as others) to be detected by conductivity.
Separation of aliphatic carboxylic acids and benzenecarboxylic acids by ion-exclusion chromatography with various cation-exchange resin columns and sulfuric acid as eluent.	The application of various hydrophilic cation-exchange resins for high-performance liquid chromatography (sulfonated silica gel: TSKgel SP-2SW, carboxylated silica gel: TSKgel CM-2SW, sulfonated polymethacrylate resin: TSKgel SP-5PW, carboxylated polymethacrylate resins: TSKgel CM-5PW and TSKgel OA-Pak A) as stationary phases in ion-exclusion chromatography for C1-C7 aliphatic carboxylic acids (formic, acetic, propionic, butyric, isovaleric, valeric, isocaproic, caproic, 2-methylhexanoic and heptanoic acids) and benzenecarboxylic acids (pyromellitic, trimellitic, hemimellitic, o-phthalic, m-phthalic, p-phthalic, benzoic, salicylic acids and phenol) was carried out using diluted sulfuric acid as the eluent. Silica-based cation-exchange resins (TSKgel SP-2SW and TSKgel CM-2SW) were very suitable for the ion-exclusion chromatographic separation of these benzenecarboxylic acids. Excellent simultaneous separation of these benzenecarboxylic acids was achieved on a TSKgel SP-2SW column (150 x 6 mm I.D.) in 17 min using a 2.5 mM sulfuric acid at pH 2.4 as the eluent. Polymethacrylate-based cation-exchange resins (TSKgel SP-5PW, TSKgel CM-5PW and TSKgel OA-Pak A) acted as advanced stationary phases for the ion-exclusion chromatographic separation of these C1-C7 aliphatic carboxylic acids. Excellent simultaneous separation of these C1-C7 acids was achieved on a TSKgel CM-5PW column (150 x 6 mm I.D.) in 32 min using a 0.05 mM sulfuric acid at pH 4.0 as the eluent.
Monolithic octadecylsilyl-silica gel column for the high-speed ion chromatographic determination of acidity.	A monolithic ODS-silica gel column modified by saturating it with lithium dodecylsulfate (Li-DS) was used to demonstrate the high-speed separation of H+ from other mono- and divalent cations, such as Na+, NH4+, K+, Mg2+ and Ca2+ using ion chromatography (IC). Using a 5 mM EDTA-2K solution containing 0.10 mM Li-DS (pH 4.80) as eluent, H+ was eluted with a sharp and symmetrical peak within 1.0 min before other cations at a flow-rate of 1.5 ml min(-1). The rapid elution of H+ and its conductimetric detection could be attributed to the presence of EDTA (HY2-), which can convert H+ ions as anions. i.e. H(+) + H2Y(2-) --> H3Y(-). The acidity of rainwater and deionized water samples was determined using this IC system with satisfactory results.
Analysis and critical comparison of the reversed-phase and ion-exchange contributions to retention on polybutadiene coated zirconia and octadecyl silane bonded silica phases.	The two major modes of retention of basic compounds in reversed-phase liquid chromatography on both octadecyl silane bonded silica-based (ODS) and polybutadiene coated zirconia (PBD-ZrO2) materials are hydrophobic and ion-exchange (Coulombic) interactions. Although the influence of reversed-phase and Coulombic interactions on the chromatography of organic cations is qualitatively well recognized, the quantitative relationship between hydrophobic and ion-exchange interactions remains unclear. In this work, the retention mechanisms on both of the above types of phases were probed by studying the retention of a homologous series of p-alkylbenzylamines as a function of the ammonium concentration in the eluent. The various columns tested were studied in terms of plots of retention factor vs. the inverse of the displacingcation concentration. The analysis of such plots as well as plots of log k' vs. number of methylene groups in the solutes and plots of log k' vs. log[NH4+] clearly shows that at least two types of sites--a pure reversed-phase site and a "hydrophobically-assisted ion-exchange site" similar to the type of site described by Neue [J. Chromatogr. A 925 (2001) 49] are needed to explain the observations. In addition, we have found a quantitative measure of the relative amount of reversed-phase and ion-exchange interaction on a given solute has on a given stationary phase which allows unambiguous classification of columns. It is now clear that ion-exchange contributions to retention on PBD-ZrO2, sometimes exceeding 90%, are even more important than previously thought and relative to hydrophobic interaction much more significant on PBD-ZrO2 than on ODS type-B silicas.
Enantiomeric separation of tocainide and its analogues on an optically active crown ether-based stationary phase by liquid chromatography.	Tocainide and its 14 analogues were resolved on a chiral stationary phase (CSP) based on (3,3'-diphenyl-1,1'-binaphthyl)-20-crown-6 covalently bonded to silica gel. The resolution was quite good, the separation (alpha) and resolution factors (Rs) being 1.84-15.32 and 1.34-13.78, respectively. Especially, the result for the resolution of tocainide on the CSP turns out to be the best one among others reported so far. The chromatographic resolution behaviors were demonstrated to be dependent on the content and the type of organic and acidic modifiers and the ammonium acetate concentration in aqueous mobile phase.
Control of Cryptosporidium with wastewater treatment to prevent its proliferation in the water cycle.	The outbreak of Cryptosporidiosis in 1996 in Japan is thought to have been enlarged by the proliferation of Cryptosporidium in the water cycle from wastewater to drinking water through the river system. From this experience, the wastewater system must have functions to remove Cryptosporidium oocysts effectively. Efficiencies of wastewater treatment processes to remove oocysts were investigated using pilot plants receiving municipal wastewater. An activated sludge process and a following sand filter showed removal efficiencies of 2 log and 0.5 log, respectively. Poly-aluminium chloride dosage improved the efficiencies by 3 log for the activated sludge process and by 2 log for the sand filter. Chemical precipitation of raw wastewater with poly-aluminium chloride could achieve 1 to 3 log removal according on the coagulant concentration.
Removal of endocrine disruptors by tertiary treatments and constructed wetlands in subtropical Australia.	The controversial topic of endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDC) in aquatic environments is of international and Australian significance with the need for sustainable management of water resources increasing. The issues have been highlighted on the major continents of Europe and North America but so far have received less attention in Australia. A major source of these compounds has been identified as sewage effluent, which is treated prior to release to the environment with a primary focus on pathogen and nutrient removal. Sewage effluent is a complex mixture, which can contain many organic and inorganic compounds some of which may remain after treatment processes. More recently, technologies such as ozonation, UV treatment and advanced filtration have improved the quality of effluent discharged to the environment but there are still unresolved issues relating to poorly understood chemistries relating to EDCs in effluent discharges and the possible impacts in aquatic environments and to human health. This paper reports on an investigation of the removal from sewage effluent of selected chemicals that are known or suspected environmental endocrine disruptors (EEDs) by sand filtration, ozonation and UV treatment at the Landeborough Water Reclamation Plant in Queensland, Australia. Compounds detected in the raw effluent included pesticides, herbicides, some heavy metals and the human hormones 17beta estradiol and estrone. Most of these ware removed by the advanced treatments at the water reclamation plant, with only trace concentrations of some compounds present in the final effluent. Removal of toxicants by a free water surface wetland is also reported on. Some of the constraints of direct chemical measurements are discussed and some solutions proposed.
Kinetics of biodegradation during remediation of consecutive accidental spills of chlorophenols in a sandy aquifer.	Kinetics of biodegradation of chlorophenols were studied in six sandy aquifer columns (0.06 m I.D.; 1.00 m L). Remediation of chlorophenols was enhanced by using a "closed-loop" configuration system, where local groundwater was recirculated through the polluted site in a controlled manner. Consecutive accidental spills of phenol, 2-monochlorophenol (2-MCP) and 2,4,6-trichlorophenol (2,4,6-TCP) as single pollutants were removed following first order kinetics. The removal of chlorophenols increased by one order of magnitude following consecutive accidental spills demonstrating adaptation of the resident micro flora. The biodegradation rate constants in this study were in the same range and agreed with those reported in the literature for biodegradation in aerobic aquifers. Following the fate of the resident micro flora (enhanced by adding NH4Cl and KH2PO4 at a ratio C/N/P equal to 120:10:1), biomass growth was observed in the sandy aquifer columns and particle size analyses of the aqueous phase recirculated through the polluted site experimentally proved aggregation of cells. Aggregation of cells has been hypothesized as one of the causes for low biodegradation rates found in the field compared to those calculated using biodegradation rate constants determined in batch culture.
Efficacy of the swim-up method in eliminating sperm with diminished maturity and aneuploidy.	We have previously shown that after 80% Percoll centrifugation there is an overall 2.7-fold reduction of sperm with chromosomal disomies and diploidies (3.2-fold and 2.0-fold respectively), and of sperm with diminished maturity as detected by cytoplasmic retention. The relationship between disomies and immature sperm was r = 0.7, suggesting that disomy primarily originates in immature sperm. In the present work we studied the efficacy of the swim-up method in elimination of sperm with diminished maturity and with chromosomal aberrations in the swim-up sperm fractions of 10 patients (sperm concentration: 20 +/- 3.9 x 10(6)/ml, range 8.9-45.5; sperm motility: 45.2 +/- 2.4, all mean +/- SEM).
Purification of ovine neutrophils and eosinophils: Anaplasma phagocytophilum affects neutrophil density.	Studies on the functions of ovine granulocytes require pure and functionally active populations of neutrophils and eosinophils. This report describes an improved technique for the separation of neutrophils and eosinophils from the peripheral blood of sheep infected with Anaplasma phagocytophilum and from normal sheep. After centrifugation and discarding the buffy coat layer, which contains the bulk of mononuclear cells, neutrophils with a high degree of purity (94.87 [+/-1.7]%, n=9) and good yield (69 [+/-9]%, n=9) were obtained by density gradient centrifugation on Percoll with a density of 1.09 g/ml (65%). However, this density was not suitable for neutrophils obtained from sheep during the peak period of A. phagocytophilum bacteraemia. Improved purity of infected neutrophils was obtained when the leucocytes were separated on Percoll with a density of 1.08 g/ml (55%). Relatively good purity of eosinophils was obtained when leucocytes from normal sheep were separated on Percoll with a density of 1.10 g/ml (70%). Ovine eosinophils formed a distinct band just below the band of mononuclear cells when a continuous Percoll gradient with a density of 1.10 g/ml was used. The purity of the eosinophils obtained was 87.7 (+/-12.5)% (n=6; range 64.1-97.6%), with a mean recovery rate of 61.9 (+/-20.3)%.
Use of silica-immobilized humin for heavy metal removal from aqueous solution under flow conditions.	Humin extracted from Sphagnum peat moss was immobilized in a silica matrix and column experiments were performed in order to evaluate the removal and recovery of metal ions from aqueous solution under flow conditions. These experiments also allowed testing the recycling capacity of the column. Single-element solutions of Cu(II) and Pb(II), and a multi-metal solution containing Cd(II), Cu(II), Pb(II), Ni(II), and Cr(III) were passed through the columns at a flow rate of 2 ml/min. A 0.5 M sodium citrate solution was used as the stripping agent in the metal-ion recovery process. Humin immobilized in the silica matrix exhibited a similar, and in some cases, even a higher capacity than other biosorbents for the removal of metal ions from aqueous solutions under flow conditions. The sodium citrate was effective in removing Cu(II), Pb(II), Cd(II), and Ni(II) from the metal saturated column. The selectivity of the immobilized biomass was as follows: Cr(III)>Pb(II)>Cu(II)>Cd(II)>Ni(II). This investigation provides a new, environmentally friendly and cost-effective possibility to clean up heavy-metal contaminated wastewaters by using the new silica-immobilized humin material.
Effect of burnout temperature on strength of gypsum-bonded investments.	To investigate the variation of the strength of gypsum-bonded dental investments with burnout temperature.
In vitro effects of antiallergic eyedrops on complement activation induced by particulate matter]	Recent decades have been marked by an increasing number of patients suffering from ocular allergic-like symptoms without being associated with an increase in IgE levels. These symptoms include heaviness of the lid, foreign body sensation, burning, stinging and photophobia. Both epidemiological studies and controlled human exposure clinical studies have shown cause-effect relationships between allergic-like symptoms and environmental factors such as outdoor air pollutants or poor indoor air quality. An ocular surface subclinical inflammation is thought to be responsible for pseudoallergic, pollution-related conjunctivitis. The complement system is considered as one of the major effector mechanisms involved in initiation of the subclinical inflammation that leads to IgE-independent eye irritation.
Electric field driven flow in natural porous media.	Electric fields were applied to fluid-saturated packed sand beds (0.23+/-0.03 mm average pore diameter), and the effects on the mobility of the water molecules were monitored using stimulated echo (STE) and pulsed field gradient (PFG) experiments. The mean flow velocity, averaged over the entire sample, is expected to vanish in closed systems, but the PFG and time dependent signal decay was enhanced beyond the effects of thermal diffusion, due to velocity dispersion. The internal flow generated by the electric field was shown to be fully time-reversible upon inverting the electric field polarity (for total flow times of up to 0.4s), a strong indication that the NMR detected displacements were mainly due to electro-osmotic flow (EOF). However, a comparison of the velocity dispersion for different electrolyte concentrations showed that the measured effect scaled with the applied power VI (V = voltage, I = electric current), rather than with the voltage alone, contrary to the prediction of the basic model for EOF in a single capillary channel.
MRI observation of heavy metal transport in aquifer matrices down to sub-mg quantities.	In this contribution, we report results from MRI studies of the propagation of heavy metal ions through columns packed with sandy aquifer materials. Both sorption of low concentrations of heavy metal ions from water flowing through the column and the formation of sorption traces produced from initially localized higher concentrations of heavy metal ions, and the remobilisation of adsorbed ions with time and changing hydrochemical conditions were studied. Multislice spin-echo and FLASH techniques were used for the imaging experiments. Advantages and problems of the different imaging protocols for the study of aquifer materials are discussed.
Pregnancy outcome in mares following insemination deep in the uterine horn with low numbers of sperm selected by glass wool/Sephadex filtration, Percoll separation or absolute number.	Mares were inseminated deep in the uterine horn with 25 million sperm selected by glass wool/Sephadex (GWS) filtration, Percoll separation (PS) or absolute number (AN). Deep-horn insemination using a low-volume, smooth tipped, flexible pipette/catheter delivery system allowed more efficient use of stallion sperm and reduced post-breeding uterine reaction in mares. Mares were pregnant in 15/30, 13/30 and 10/30 cycles for GWS, PS and AN selection methods, respectively. Sperm selection method did not effect pregnancy outcome (P=0.422). However, sperm selected for deep-horn insemination by filtration through a glass wool/Sephadex column tended to improve fertility over simply using an absolute number of sperm (P=0.105).
Pore-scale redistribution of water during wetting of air-dried soils as studied by low-field NMR relaxometry.	The kinetics of water uptake and redistribution in several soils and their components are studied using NMR relaxometry. Unlike the normal behavior observed in stable porous media, entry into micropores in the soil is a slow process as compared to entry into macro- and mesopores. This indicates that soils air-dried at ambient temperature include gel phases that have collapsed or reoriented, closing micropores, during drying. Wetting must then include the swelling processes that re-open micropores. This can even exhibit temperature dependence giving an "apparent activation energy" comparable to that of a chemical reaction, for example, ester hydrolysis. The processes of micropore opening may play a role in slow uptake of contaminants into soils.
Modeling of flow and contaminant transport in coupled stream-aquifer systems.	This paper describes an integrated approach for modeling flow and contaminant transport in hydraulically connected stream-aquifer systems. The code, FTSTREAM, extended the capabilities of the ground-water model, FTWORK, to incorporate chemical fate and transport in streams. Flow in the stream network is modeled as an unsteady, spatially varying flow, while transport modeling is based on a one-dimensional advection-dispersion equation. In addition to sorption and decay during transport in ground water, the model incorporates volatilization, settling and decay during transport in surface water. The interaction between surface water and ground water is accommodated by a leakage term and is implemented in the model using an iterative Picard-type procedure to ensure mass conservation across the interface between the two systems. The modeling approach is used to simulate contaminant transport in the Mad River, Ohio, which is hydraulically connected to a buried valley aquifer of sand and gravel outwash. The river is a receiving stream in the upstream part of the modeled area. Downstream, heavy pumping from a municipal well field causes the river to become a loosing stream. Induced infiltration from the river is responsible for a considerable portion of the well yield. The flow and transport model, developed for this study, simulates coupling between flow in the aquifer and the river. Hypothetical sources of contamination are introduced at selected locations in the upstream portion of the aquifer. The model is then used to simulate the expected transport in both the aquifer and the stream. A series of simulations elucidates the role of the river in facilitating the transport of the hypothetical contaminants in ground water and surface water. Effect of sorption, retardation and volatilization on contaminant transport is also examined for the case of the volatile organic compounds.
Clinical evaluation of different posterior resin composite materials: a 7-year report.	The aim of this study was to investigate the clinical performance of 120 posterior composite restorations placed in 38 patients after a period of 7 years.
Rapid isolation of serum albumin using microporous PVC/silica cartridges.	A protocol has been developed for rapid isolation of albumin from rabbit or bovine serum. It is based on the use of microporous plastic silica sheets that have been fabricated into rapid flow-through devices called ACTI-MOD cartridges. In the first step, the untreated silica plastic matrix binds a major portion of the non-albumin protein. A second step, using an ACTI-MOD anion-exchange quaternary amine, further purifies and concentrates the albumin. At this stage, the albumin appears to be at least ninety-nine per cent pure based on sodium dodecyl sulfate gel electrophoresis.
Modulation of mouse placental lactogen-I secretion in vitro: effects of progesterone and mouse placental lactogen-II.	The primary objective of this study was to develop a cell culture system for assessing effects of putative secretagogues on mouse PL-I (mPL-I) secretion. Trophoblast from days 7 to 11 of pregnancy was dispersed in collagenase, and the cells were fractionated on a Percoll gradient and plated on collagen gels in serum-free medium. Cells from days 7-9 of pregnancy yielded five bands on Percoll gradients and those from days 10 and 11 yielded six. mPL-I was present in four of the bands of cells from each day of pregnancy. Cells from day 7 of pregnancy that banded at a density of 1.044 g/ml secreted the largest amount of mPL-I during 5 days of culture. The mPL-I concentration of the medium of these cells increased for the first 3 or 4 days of culture and then declined on the fifth day. mPL-II could not be detected in the medium until the third or fourth day of culture, and its concentration increased thereafter. Cell viability was about 90% at the time of plating, remained at about 80% between days 1 and 4, and then declined on day 5. The cell type that produced mPL-I was identified with the reverse hemolytic plaque assay and by staining with anti-mPL-I antiserum. Both methods indicated that mPL-I was produced by giant cells. The ability of the cells to respond to putative secretagogues was examined using mPL-II and progesterone. mPL-II, at concentrations ranging between 10 ng/ml and 10 micrograms/ml, had no effect on the mPL-I concentration of the medium when it was present for up to 3 days of culture, which suggests that mPL-II does not inhibit mPL-I secretion in vitro. Incubation of the cells in the presence of 100-1000 ng/ml progesterone caused a dose- and time-dependent reduction in the mPL-I concentration of the medium and a decrease in the number of cells that stained with anti-mPL-I antiserum. The effect of progesterone on both endpoints was not apparent until the second day of treatment. These data suggest that progesterone inhibits mPL-I secretion at least in part by inhibiting the differentiation of mPL-I-producing giant cells. The fact that the mPL-I-producing cells responded to progesterone indicates that this culture system will be useful in assessing effects of putative secretagogues on mPL-I secretion.
Effect of coolant flow on the performance of round sapphire tips in a saline field.	Round sapphire and silica tips have been studied as surgical probes for focusing Nd:YAG laser radiation during various surgical indications. Since most of these data have been obtained with silica tips from Surgical Laser Technology, there are limited data on the physical performance of round sapphire tips. An investigation of round sapphire tip performance during tissue ablation was undertaken. Nd:YAG laser power was delivered in repetitive 2-sec exposures to a round sapphire tip placed on fresh skinned chicken breast. Total exposures of 1,000 J were performed at different saline perfusion rates. The tip's performance in terms of tissue perforation rate, blanched tissue area, tissue heating rate, and forward transmission was measured. Best tip performance occurred at the lowest cooling rates and was independent of the tip's forward transmission value. No physical deterioration of the tip's optical surface was observed. Round sapphire tip performance in a saline field is primarily determined by the tip's temperature.
Differential sperm performance as judged by the zona-free hamster egg penetration test relative to differing sperm penetration techniques.	A prospective study on 61 unselected semen samples from infertile patients was conducted to evaluate the effects of sperm preparation techniques on the outcomes of the zona-free hamster egg penetration test (HEPT) to assess the in-vitro fertilizing capacity of spermatozoa. Each semen sample was divided into two equal portions before separation of the spermatozoa from seminal plasma either by the single-tube swim-up method, or using a two-layer discontinuous Percoll gradient. Spermatozoa were incubated overnight for initiation of capacitation after which HEPT was performed. The swim-up spermatozoa were further divided into two subgroups before HEPT as follows: with or without (control) treatment for 20 min with 50% (v/v) pooled, human follicular fluid (hFF) which had not been heat-inactivated. It was demonstrated (P less than 0.05) that the Percoll-separated spermatozoa exhibited higher penetration scores (percentage penetration rate and penetration index) than the control or the hFF-treated swim-up spermatozoa. A short exposure (20 min) to hFF significantly increased the penetration scores in HEPT for swim-up spermatozoa (P less than 0.05) but the average results were still significantly lower (P less than 0.05) than those of the Percoll separated spermatozoa, which had received no hFF treatment. Based on these findings, we conclude that the Percoll separation technique is better than the centrifugal pelleting and single-tube swim-up technique for reducing the false-negative results in HEPT. In addition, the use of hFF can significantly improve the performance of the swim-up sperm samples in HEPT.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Comparison of Percoll, mini-Percoll and swim-up methods for sperm preparation from abnormal semen samples.	Two methods of density gradient centrifugation, Percoll (P) and mini-Percoll (MP), were compared with the swim-up technique for preparing spermatozoa from each of 40 abnormal semen samples. P and MP produced similar results with a mean recovery of spermatozoa with progressive motility which was significantly higher (18-19%) than that achieved with swim-up (5%). However, the swim-up method resulted in the recovery of spermatozoa with a higher mean motility (89 versus 58%), velocity (69 versus 56 microns/s), percentage with normal morphology (22 versus 16%) and intact acrosomes (61 versus 36%) than P and MP. The mean amplitude of lateral head displacement was the only characteristic of spermatozoa in semen which correlated with the recoveries of motile spermatozoa. Combining MP and swim-up methods for 10 samples produced a higher recovery (11 versus 6.9%) of spermatozoa with significantly better mean motility (94 versus 87%) than did swim-up alone. Although P and MP resulted in greater yields of motile spermatozoa than the swim-up preparation, the latter procedure selected higher proportions of spermatozoa with improved characteristics (velocity, intact acrosomes and normal morphology) which correlate with fertilization rates in vitro. It is concluded that P and MP are not superior to swim-up. However, sequential MP and swim-up preparation improves yields of high quality spermatozoa from some abnormal semen samples and therefore has potential for improving fertilization rates.
Cell surface antigens on human marrow-derived mesenchymal cells are detected by monoclonal antibodies.	Human bone marrow has been shown to contain mesenchymal cells, which fabricate the connective tissue network of the marrow called the stroma. A subset of these marrow-derived mesenchymal cells can be isolated, expanded in culture, and then induced to differentiate into bone-producing osteoblasts and ultimately osteocytes when placed in the proper environment. At present, there are no methods for definitively identifying these cells in human marrow tissue or following their differentiation into osteogenic phenotypes. Therefore, we culture-expanded, marrow-derived mesenchymal cells from human donors and used these cells to immunize cells from human donors and used these cells to immunize mice whose spleens were used to generate hybridoma cell lines, which secrete antibodies to antigens on the cell surface of these culture-expanded mesenchymal cells. Hybridoma culture supernatants were successively screened against highly enriched samples of culture-expanded, marrow-derived mesenchymal cells in cryosections and live cell cultures to identify unique cell surface antigens. Positive clones were then screened against cell suspensions of whole and fractionated marrow to identify hybridomas whose supernatants were nonreactive with marrow hemopoietic cells. Three hybridoma cell lines, SH2, SH3, and SH4, were identified; these hybridomas secrete antibodies that recognize antigens on the cell surface of marrow-derived mesenchymal cells, but fail to react with marrow-derived hemopoietic cells. Additional tissue screening reveals unique tissue distributions for each of the recognized antigens, which suggests different antigen recognition for each antibody. However, all three antibodies fail to react with the cell surface of osteoblasts or osteocytes, suggesting that the antigens recognized by these antibodies are developmentally regulated and specific for primitive or early-stage cells of the osteogenic lineage.
Retention reproducibility of basic drugs in high-performance liquid chromatography on a silica column with a methanol-high-pH buffer eluent. Changes in selectivity with the age of the stationary phase.	The long-term reproducibility of the separation of basic drugs by high-performance liquid chromatography using a silica column with a methanol-high-pH eluent was examined. The relative capacity factors of specific tertiary amines changed systematically compared with the other drugs on storage of the columns for 1 year. The changes were enhanced on storing the column in mobile phase and were accelerated by prolonged washing with water. A comparison of freshly packed columns suggested that similar changes also occurred with the dry silica on storage. These effects may be a contributor to previously observed batch-to-batch differences in the silica.
Comparative auto-controlled study between swim-up and Percoll preparation of fresh semen samples for in-vitro fertilization.	This study compared swim-up and Percoll preparation of fresh semen samples for in-vitro fertilization. Sixty trials of in-vitro fertilization (IVF), 38 with normal semen and 22 with abnormal semen, comprising 734 oocytes were included in the study. Each semen sample was prepared by both a swim-up technique and a simplified discontinuous (50%, 70%, 90%) Percoll gradient. The oocytes for each trial were distributed at random between the two sperm preparations and incubated with the same number of motile spermatozoa. Percoll gradient preparation produced a significantly higher final concentration of spermatozoa than swim-up preparation (mean +/- SEM: 6.6 +/- 1.5 x 10(6)/ml versus 1.9 +/- 0.2 x 10(6)/ml; P less than 0.01) but a significantly lower sperm motility (69 +/- 2% versus 94 +/- 1%; P less than 0.001) and a lower number of normal forms (55 +/- 2% versus 64 +/- 2%; P less than 0.01). The ability of the Percoll gradient method to extract motile spermatozoa was higher than that of the swim-up technique (20 +/- 15.6% versus 0.8 +/- 13.6%). Nevertheless, the rates of fertilization (61%), fertilization failure (18%) and polyspermia (9%), embryo quality evaluated by mean embryo scores (3.8 +/- 0.3) and the mean number of spare embryos frozen per trial (1.4 +/- 0.3) were strictly identical in both groups. The 24 pregnancies (including three from frozen--thawed embryos) obtained in these 60 trials (40% per oocyte retrieval) could not be separated according to the sperm preparation method, as embryos from both groups were replaced together.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Enhancement of the thermal and storage stability of urease by covalent attachment to phospholipid-bound silica.	Urease was immobilized directly on silanized silica surfaces carrying alkyl moieties with terminal carboxylic groups. The enzyme was also covalently attached to phospholipid-bound silanized silica surfaces through the terminal carboxyl moiety on the sn-2 acyl chain of the lipid. The surfaces were characterized by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy and ellipsometry. The activity of the immobilized urease was determined by UV spectrophotometry using a urea/bromocresol purple substrate. The enzymic activity decreases exponentially upon storage under dry solid conditions for 1 week or upon heating to 100 degrees C in the case of the silane/enzyme surfaces. On the other hand, the enzyme immobilized on phospholipid-carrying silica surfaces retained its entire original activity under dry storage or heat treatment conditions. Such immobilized urease systems could find extensive applicability in the design of in vivo dialysis equipment or for on-line monitoring of urea.
Measurement of the secondary structure of adsorbed protein by circular dichroism. 1. Measurements of the helix content of adsorbed melittin.	A new circular dichroism (CD) technique is presented which quantifies, in situ, the changes in protein and peptide secondary structure upon adsorption at the quartz/liquid interface. Far-UV CD spectra of adsorbed proteins were recorded from several quartz interfaces contained in a specially constructed cell. Adsorbed, oriented alpha-helical spectra were recorded from hydrophilic and hydrophobic quartz using the bee venom peptide, melittin, which can be induced into an alpha-helical, tetrameric conformation in solution. The hydrophobic quartz provides a model system for oil-in-water emulsions and cell membranes. Surface concentrations were determined by radio-counting and were dependent on the nature of the surface. The characterization of these spectra has been partly achieved using far-UV CD spectra obtained from melittin adsorbed onto hydrophilic colloidal silica particles, where orientation effects are eliminated. Analysis of these spectra reveals considerable denaturation of the helical structures upon adsorption. Surface concentrations from the silica were determined from adsorption isotherms. The surface orientation of adsorbed melittin was dependent on the state of aggregation and hence degree of helicity of the molecule. These results support a model for the mode of action of melittin in lysing membranes.
Association of human sperm nuclear decondensation and in vitro penetration ability.	Sperm nuclear decondensation is an integral step in fertilization which leads to the formation of the male pronucleus. The association between the in vitro spontaneous nuclear decondensation of human sperm and its fertilizing ability was studied in infertile male patients. The ability of sperm to fertilize an egg using the discontinuous two-layer Percoll method was significantly correlated to the percentage of decondensed swollen head (r = 0.43; P less than 0.005). The fertilizing ability of sperm processed with Test-Yolk buffer was correlated with the percentage of sperm at the fully decondensed stalk stage (r = 0.51; P less than 0.05). There were insignificant correlations for the whole-wash centrifugation, cryopreserved-thawed and swim-up methods. Samples of sperm that were positive (greater than 0% fertilization) in the sperm penetration assay had a higher percentage of decondensed sperm heads (66.7% vs. 20.6%) after Percoll wash or whole-wash centrifugation (60.5% vs. 44.3%) treatments compared with samples with no fertilization. Treatments that included Test-Yolk resulted in high percentages of decondensed swollen heads. The results suggest a positive association between sperm nuclear decondensation and the fertilizing ability of sperm, and affirm the importance of nuclear decondensation to the study of fertilization events.
Differential distribution of nitric oxide synthase between cell fractions isolated from the rat gastric mucosa.	Cells isolated from the rat gastric mucosa were resolved into two fractions on a percoll density gradient, and into five fractions using counterflow centrifugation (elutriation). Ca(2+)-dependent nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity was found in the high density percoll fraction but not in the parietal cell enriched low density fraction. This activity was inhibited by NG-monomethyl-L-arginine with an IC50 of 3.7 microM. Cells in the elutriator fraction rich in mucous-epithelial cells exhibited the highest NOS activity, while the smaller cell fractions had no detectable NOS yet had the highest basal release of prostaglandin E2. The parietal cell enriched elutriator fraction again had low NOS activity. The activity of a constitutive NOS in the mucous-cell fraction may indicate a role of NO in the regulation of epithelial cell integrity or secretion.
Direct electrochemistry and electrocatalysis of hemoglobin immobilized on carbon paste electrode by silica sol-gel film.	Direct electrochemical and electrocatalytic behaviors of hemoglobin (Hb) immobilized on carbon paste electrode (CPE) by a silica sol-gel film derived from tetraethylorthosilicate (TEOS) were investigated for the first time. Hb/sol-gel film modified electrodes showed a pair of well-defined and nearly reversible cyclic voltammetric peaks for Hb Fe(III)/Fe(II) redox couple at about -0.312 V (versus Ag/AgCl) in a pH 7.0 phosphate buffer. The formal potential of Hb heme Fe(III)/Fe(II) couple varied linearly with the increase of pH in the range of 5.0-10.0 with a slope of 49.44 mV pH(-1), which suggests that a proton transfer is accompanied with each electron transfer (ET) in the electrochemical reaction. The immobilized Hb displayed the features of peroxidase and gave excellent electrocatalytic performance to the reduction of O2, NO2(-) and H2O2. The calculated apparent Michaelis-Menten constant was 8.98 x 10(-4)M, which indicated that there was a large catalytic activity of Hb immobilized on CPE by sol-gel film toward H2O2. In comparison with other electrodes, the chemically modified electrodes, used in this direct electrochemical study of Hb, are easy to be fabricated and rather inexpensive. Consequently, the Hb/sol-gel film modified electrode provides a convenient approach to perform electrochemical research on this kind of proteins. It also has potential use in the fabrication of the third generation biosensors and bioreactors.
A non-destructive test for detection of IPNV-carriers in Atlantic halibut, Hippoglossus hippoglossus (L.).	Over 18 months after infectious pancreatic necrosis virus (IPNV) was first detected in fish (80 g-4 kg) on a halibut farm, the stocks were found to be still carrying the virus. This suggests that long-term persistence of IPNV occurs in farmed Atlantic halibut. A non-destructive test was applied to blood adherent leucocytes by placing 100 microL of whole blood collected in a heparinized tube into 96-well plates. After overnight incubation, the non-adherent cells were washed off, the remaining adherent cells lysed in a lysis buffer and inoculated onto CHSE-214 cells. The resulting cytopathic effect was confirmed as IPNV positive by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. In a sample of 10 fish tested by this method, all were positive for IPNV while only two were positive by the standard method for virus culture from sonicated kidney homogenates and only one fish, which was positive by the standard method, was positive by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction on kidney tissue. The test on blood leucocytes is shown to be simple to perform on samples taken under field conditions.
Granular size segregation in underwater sand ripples.	We report an experimental study of a binary sand bed under an oscillating water flow. The formation and evolution of ripples is observed. The appearance of a granular segregation is shown to strongly depend on the sand bed preparation. The initial wavelength of the mixture is measured. In the final steady state, a segregation in volume is observed instead of a segregation at the surface as reported before. The correlation between this phenomenon and the fluid flow is emphasised. Finally, different "exotic" patterns and their geophysical implications are presented.
Influence of curing modes on crosslink density in polymer structures.	This study investigates the influence of curing modes on the crosslinking density of dental composites.
The effect of variation in etching times on dentin bonding.	Twelve extracted molars were assigned into four groups of three to observe how different etching times affect the depth of dentin demineralization and the thickness and morphology of the hybrid layer. The four groups were subjected to etching times of 5, 15, 30, and 60 seconds. To study the hybrid layer, another 27 molars were assigned into groups of nine; each group was etched using a different single-bottle bonding agent. In addition, each group was divided into three subgroups, with three different etching times of 5, 15, and 30 seconds. Following the bonding procedure, the specimens were bonded using Z100 composite and processed for observation using a scanning electron microscope. There was a direct correlation between etching time and depth of demineralized zone. The hybrid layer thickness correlated directly to the etching time. Increased etching time demineralized the dentin surface to a depth greater than resin monomers could penetrate, producing a thick, poorly infiltrated hybrid layer. Reducing etching time reduces the depth of the demineralized zone and may be effective for achieving complete penetration and for sealing the dentin surface.
The decline and fate of an iron-induced subarctic phytoplankton bloom.	Iron supply has a key role in stimulating phytoplankton blooms in high-nitrate low-chlorophyll oceanic waters. However, the fate of the carbon fixed by these blooms, and how efficiently it is exported into the ocean's interior, remains largely unknown. Here we report on the decline and fate of an iron-stimulated diatom bloom in the Gulf of Alaska. The bloom terminated on day 18, following the depletion of iron and then silicic acid, after which mixed-layer particulate organic carbon (POC) concentrations declined over six days. Increased particulate silica export via sinking diatoms was recorded in sediment traps at depths between 50 and 125 m from day 21, yet increased POC export was not evident until day 24. Only a small proportion of the mixed-layer POC was intercepted by the traps, with more than half of the mixed-layer POC deficit attributable to bacterial remineralization and mesozooplankton grazing. The depletion of silicic acid and the inefficient transfer of iron-increased POC below the permanent thermocline have major implications both for the biogeochemical interpretation of times of greater iron supply in the geological past, and also for proposed geo-engineering schemes to increase oceanic carbon sequestration.
Direct identification of Mycobacterium tuberculosis from sputum on Ziehl-Neelsen acid fast stained slides by use of silica-based filter combined with polymerase chain reaction assay.	This paper describes a method for isolation of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) from Ziehl-Neelsen stained sputum smears on glass slides; and isolated DNA was used for the IS6110 polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based identification of M. tuberculosis. A total of 221 samples from newly diagnosed suspected tuberculosis cases were first examined by microscopic examination. For DNA extraction by silica-based filter, a home-made modified spin column gave the efficacy as did the nucleospin tissue reagent kit and therefore was selected for PCR template preparation. The extracted DNA was amplified by the IS6110 PCR using a primer pair that amplifies a 377-bp target, and the product was analyzed by agarose gel electrophoresis with confirmation by Southern blot hybridization. In comparison with culture, PCR with template prepared by the silica based filter showed overall sensitivity and specificity of 91.7 and 100 per cent, respectively. This study used the over one year and less than one year slides samples to study the effect of storage time. In the more than one year storage group, PCR assay gave a sensitivity and specificity of 83.3 and 100 per cent, respectively. In conclusion, the applicability of the PCR directly to DNA extracted from Ziehl-Neelsen stained smears could become a valuable alternative approach for rapid identification of M. tuberculosis, and could be used to evaluate quality of the control of local laboratories in tuberculosis (TB) screening and solve the problem of specimen transportation. In addition, the method could be used in retrospective studies involving a wide range of PCR-based analyses, such as detection of rifampicin resistant gene in multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) study.
Separation of fatty acid methyl esters by comprehensive two-dimensional supercritical fluid chromatography with packed columns and programming of sampling duration.	Fatty acid methyl esters from various fats and oils were separated by comprehensive two-dimensional supercritical fluid chromatography with conventional packed columns and FID detection. The first dimension was a silica gel column and the second dimension was an ODS column. This combination was largely orthogonal for the separation of fatty acid methyl esters. The first dimension separations were primarily based on the number of double bonds while the second dimension separations were based on the chain length. The highly-ordered chromatograms and improved resolution allowed the easy detection and identification of minor components. Although the first dimension separations were performed under isobaric conditions where the peak width increased in proportion to the retention, the programming of the sampling duration allowed us to maintain the optimum re-injection frequency (3-4 times) per peak into the second dimension and so to minimize the total analysis time without deteriorating the resolution.
Silica sol-gel amperometric immunosensor for Schistosoma japonicum antibody assay.	An amperometric immunosensor was constructed by dispersing graphite, schistosoma-japonicum antigen (SjAg) and silica sol-gel at low temperature. The performance characteristics of the prepared immunosensor were examined in the buffered solution of o-aminophenol (o-AP) used as a substrate. It exhibited excellent physical and electrochemical stability with a renewable external surface. A competitive binding assay was employed to determine schistosoma-japonicum antibody (SjAb) with the aid of horseradish peroxidase labeled SjAb (HRP-SjAb). The experimental parameters for SjAb assay were optimized, including the amount of labeled SjAb in incubation solution, incubation time, temperature and the pH of solution. The use of o-AP substrate and amperometric detection at -250 mV (vs. SCE) results in a determination limit of 0.32 microg/ml and a linear range extending up to 0.18 microg/ml. The results of SjAb assay in serum samples demonstrate the feasibility of using the proposed immunosensor for clinical analysis.
Anti-Helicobacter pylori activities of six Iranian plants.	Helicobacter pylori is the major worldwide cause of bacterial gastrointestinal infections in adults and children. Antibiotic therapy and a combination of two or three drugs have been widely used to eradicate these infections. However, development of drug resistance in bacteria calls for new sources of drugs, and plants seem to be a logical source of new antibacterial compounds.
Nitrate leaching by atmospheric N deposition to upper groundwater in the sandy regions of The Netherlands in 1990.	Anthropogenic increase in atmospheric nitrogen (N) deposition in nature areas results in nitrate leaching to groundwater, threatening its quality. Member states of the European Union are obliged to reduce groundwater nitrate concentrations and to monitor this reduction. The relationship between N deposition and groundwater nitrate concentrations is quantified using a field survey and geographical information. Nitrate concentrations of the uppermost metre of groundwater in nature areas in the sandy regions in 1990 were related to geographical data by means of regression analysis. In this way nitrate concentrations could be explained by potential ammonia deposition, soil type, vegetation and land use. We found that about 35% of 54 kg ha(-1) a(-1) atmospheric N deposition was leached to the upper groundwater as nitrate, resulting in a mean NO3 concentration of about 30 mg L(-1). The critical N load for exceeding the EC limit value (50 mg L(-1)) in the sandy regions of The Netherlands composed of natural vegetation will be about 80 kg ha(-1) a(-1). Leaching is less than expected for nature areas but comparable with leaching of N surpluses in pastures in The Netherlands. A reduction in nitrate leaching by 25% or more can currently be detected via a new field survey.
The effect of traction sanding on urban suspended particles in Finland.	Springtime urban road dust forms one of the most serious problems regarding air pollution in Finland. The composition and origin of springtime dust was studied in southern Finland with two different methods. Suspended particles (PM10 and TSP) were collected with high volume particle samplers and particle deposition was collected with moss bags. The composition of the PM(1.5-10) fraction was studied using individual particle analysis with SEM/EDX. The deposition in the moss bags was analysed with ICP-MS. The results showed that during the study period, approximately 10% of both PM(1.5-10) particles and the deposition originated from sanding. Other sources in the springtime PM(1.5-10) were e.g. asphalt aggregate or soil and combustion processes. It can be concluded that sanding produced a relatively small amount of particulate matter under the investigated circumstances.
Ecotoxicity assessment of stabilized/solidified foundry sludge.	The aim of this study is to evaluate the toxicity of the leachates from a foundry sludge and the derived products based on the stabilization/solidification (S/S) processes. Foundry sludge is an industrial hazardous waste containing inorganic and organic pollutants. The immobilization of the foundry waste has been performed using different S/S procedures based on cement or lime as binder agents and foundry sand fines, calcium-magnesium lignosulfonate, silica fume, activated carbon and black carbon as additives. The waste and stabilized/solidified derived products have been evaluated according to environmental considerations. The relation between the chemical composition and the ecotoxicity of the leachates has been studied in this paper. The ecotoxicity of the leachates has been related to the heavy metals and the organic pollutants by an empirical logarithmic linear expression. Different parameters of the logarithmic fitting have been obtained for the studied binder agents and additives allowing the establishment of a relationship between the S/S process and the ecotoxicity of the derived products. Results of this study have wide-ranging implications for immediate management strategies of waste with organic and inorganic pollutants in addition to application in long-term remediation efforts.
Degradation and sorption of metribuzin and primary metabolites in a sandy soil.	Leaching to the ground water of metabolites from the herbicide metribuzin [4-amino-6-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-3-(methylthio)-1,2,4-triazin-5-one] has been measured in a Danish field experiment in concentrations exceeding the European Union threshold limit for pesticides at 0.1 microg/L. In the present work, degradation and sorption of metribuzin and the metabolites desamino-metribuzin (DA), diketo-metribuzin (DK), and desamino-diketo-metribuzin (DADK) were studied in a Danish sandy loam topsoil and subsoil from the field in question, using accelerated solvent extraction and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis. Fast dissipation of metribuzin and the metabolites was observed in the topsoil, with 50% disappearance within 30 to 40 d. A two-compartment model described degradation of metribuzin and DA, whereas that of DADK could be described using first-order kinetics. Part of the dissipation was probably due to incorporation into soil organic matter. Degradation in subsoil occurred very slowly, with extrapolated half-lives of more than one year. Sorption in the topsoil followed the order DA > metribuzin > DK > DADK. Subsoil sorption was considerably lower, and was hardly measurable for metribuzin and DK. Abiotic degradation was considerably higher in the topsoil than the subsoil, especially concerning the de-amination step, indicating that organic matter may be related to the degradation process. The present results confirm observations of metribuzin and transformation product leaching made in the field experiment and demonstrate the need for knowledge on primary metabolites when assessing the risk for pesticide leaching.
Recirculating sand filters for treatment of synthetic dairy parlor washings.	Land-spreading and spray irrigation are the most widely used practices for the disposal of dairy wastewaters in Ireland but in some cases there can be problems due to contamination of surface and ground water. The use of intermittent sand filtration has been suggested as an alternative treatment process. However, a single pass through a sand filter limits denitrification because of the absence of reducing conditions following nitrification and the lack of an available carbon source. This leads to poor total nitrogen (TN) reduction and an effluent that is high in nitrate nitrogen (NO3-N). This paper follows a previous paper in which two instrumented stratified sand filter columns (0.9 and 0.425 m deep, and both 0.3 m in diameter) were intermittently loaded with synthetic dairy parlor washings at a number of hydraulic loading rates, leading to a TN reduction of 27 to 41%. In the present study, under a chemical oxygen demand (COD) of 23.4 g m(-2) d(-1), the TN was reduced by 83.2% when three-quarters of the sand filter effluent was recirculated through an anoxic zone. This produced an effluent NO3-N concentration of 60 mg L(-1). With recirculation, the improvement in the removal of organic matter and ammonia N (NH4-N) is minimal. Recirculating sand filters appear to offer a mechanically simple and effective method for the removal of nitrogen from dairy parlor effluents and are a significant improvement over a single-pass sand filter.
Hookworm (Necator americanus) transmission in inland areas of sandy soils in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.	This study extended the association between hookworm transmission in KwaZulu-Natal and the sandy coastal plain by investigating the parasite's occurrence in isolated areas of sandy soils further inland. A school-based prevalence survey was carried out in selected inland sandy areas and in surrounding areas dominated by clay soils within a narrow altitudinal range of between 500 and 700 m to reduce the effect of altitude on climate-related factors (rainfall and temperature). Sandy areas situated on the coastal plain were included in the analysis for comparative purposes. Soil samples (0-50 mm depth) were collected from each locality to assess their nematode loadings and to analyse selected physical and chemical properties. Significant differences were found between the moderate prevalence of hookworm infection among children living in inland areas with sandy soils (17.3%) and the low prevalence in surrounding non-sandy areas (5.3%, P < 0.001), and between infection among children living in all inland areas (9.3%) and the high prevalence on the coastal plain (62.5%, P < 0.001). Amounts of fine and medium sand were highest in both the coastal plain soils and in inland sandy areas and these fractions showed a significant positive correlation with hookworm prevalence and nematode loadings. Clay, coarse sand and organic matter contents were highest in surrounding non-sandy soils and showed a significant negative correlation with the nematode variables. No statistically significant correlations were found with soil pH at study localities. We conclude that properties of inland sandy soils, particularly particle size distribution, correlate well with hookworm prevalence and nematode loadings and therefore provide a more suitable habitat for nematodes than surrounding non-sandy areas. These results suggest that particle size distribution of sand fractions, organic matter and clay content in the soil influence the survival of hookworm larvae and hence the parasite's transmission.
Biomechanical differences in elite beach-volleyball players in vertical squat jump on rigid and sand surface.	The purpose of this investigation was to detect whether differences exist concerning the dynamic and kinematic parameters of vertical squat jump (SJ) on rigid (RS) and sand (SS) surface. Fifteen elite male beach volleyball players (age: 25.6 +/- 6.2 years; height: 188.0 +/- 3.5 cm; body mass: 83.2 +/- 6.0 kg; mean +/- SD, respectively) performed SJ. Force platform and kinematic analyses were used with paired sample T-tests to evaluate the differences. Vertical jump height was significantly smaller (p < .001) on SS than RS. Maximal force and maximal power were significantly higher on RS than SS (p < .05 and p < .01 respectively). Impulse time was larger in SS but with no significant difference (p = .286). Kinematic analysis revealed significant differences between the values of ankle joint during starting posture (p < .01) and of hip joint at the moment of take-off (p < .05). Ankle joint range of motion and angular velocity was larger in SS (p < .05). In conclusion, SJ height on SS was smaller than on RS because of the compliance and the instability of the sand. This resulted in a reduction in maximum force and take-off velocity. Furthermore, the compliance of SS made it hard for the ankle to push along the vertical axis of the movement of the body and as a result it slipped behind in an attempt to maximize propulsion. As a result, the body tries to balance and equalise this movement and move the hip to larger extension.
Bionanotechnology based on silica nanoparticles.	We have developed uniform core/shell nanoparticles, consisting of a silica layer coating and pigments or magnetite core, using a water-in-oil microemulsion method. The nanoparticles are highly luminescent and photostable with the size ranging from 5 nm to 400 nm. Bioconjugation of these silica nanoparticles adds unique biofunctions with various molecules such as enzymes, antibodies, and DNA molecules. Significant advantages have been shown in using bioconjugated nanoparticles for biosensing and bioimaging, such as cell staining, DNA detection and separation, rapid single bacterium detection, and biotechnological application in DNA protection.
Influence of the sea rush Juncus maritimus on metal concentration and speciation in estuarine sediment colonized by the plant.	Metal accumulation by Juncus maritimus and the role of this plant on the physical and chemical composition of sediments, from the Douro river estuary (NW Portugal), were investigated. The contents of Cd, Cr, Cu, Fe, Mn, Ni, Pb, and Zn were determined (by atomic absorption spectrophotometry) in sediments, rhizosediments (those among plant roots and rhizomes), and different plant tissues (roots, rhizomes, leaves, and stems). Metal fractionation in sediments through sequential extraction was carried out and used for interpretation of sediment/J. maritimus interactions. Two estuarine sites with different characteristics were studied: site I displayed sandy sediment with lower organic matter and metals more weakly bound to it than site II sediment, which was muddy. At both sites, higher metal contents were observed in rhizosediments than in the surrounding sediment, but metals were more weakly bound to rhizosediment. Therefore, J. maritimus markedly influenced the sediments among its roots and rhizomes, changing metal distribution and speciation. Different patterns of both metal uptake and metal distribution among J. maritimus tissues were observed at the two sites. Plant bioaccumulation was only observed for Cd, Cu, and Zn, being similar for Cd atthe two sites and significantly higher for Cu and Zn (9 and 4 times higher, respectively) at site I. In conclusion, J. maritimus was shown to have potential for phytoextraction (or phytostabilization) of Cd, Cu, and Zn in estuarine environment. However, an eventual application of J. maritimus for this purpose will require a periodic removal of the plants together with their own rhizosediment.
Denitrification potential in relation to lithology in five headwater riparian zones.	The influence of riparian zone lithology on nitrate dynamics is poorly understood. We investigated vertical variations in potential denitrification activity in relation to the lithology and stratigraphy of five headwater riparian zones on glacial till and outwash landscapes in southern Ontario, Canada. Conductive coarse sand and gravel layers occurred in four of the five riparian areas. These layers were thin and did not extend to the field-riparian perimeter in some riparian zones, which limited their role as conduits for ground water flow. We found widespread organic-rich layers at depths ranging from 40 to 300 cm that resulted from natural floodplain processes and the burial of surface soils by rapid valley-bottom sedimentation after European settlement. The organic matter content of these layers varied considerably from 2 to 5% (relic channel deposit) to 5 to 21% (buried soils) and 30 to 62% (buried peat). Denitrification potential (DNP) was measured by the acetylene block method in sediment slurries amended with nitrate. The highest DNP rates were usually found in the top 0- to 15-cm surface soil layer in all riparian zones. However, a steep decline in DNP with depth was often absent and high DNP activity occurred in the deep organic-rich layers. Water table variations in 2000-2002 indicated that ground water only interacted frequently with riparian surface soils between late March and May, whereas subsurface organic layers that sustain considerable DNP were below the water table for most of the year. These results suggest that riparian zones with organic deposits at depth may effectively remove nitrate from ground water even when the water table does not interact with organic-rich surface soil horizons.
Phosphorus availability for plant uptake in a phosphorus-enriched noncalcareous sandy soil.	Mining soil phosphorus (i.e., harvesting P taken up from the soil by a crop grown without external P addition) has been proposed as a possible management strategy for P-enriched soils to decrease the risk of P leaching. We performed a pot experiment in a greenhouse where grass was cropped on a P-enriched noncalcareous sandy soil at zero P application over a period of 978 d. We determined the long-term availability of soil P and evaluated the effectiveness of mining soil P to decrease P in different pools. There were two treatments: soil layers in the pots of either 5 or 10 cm thickness. Soils were analyzed at various stages of the experiment. Phosphorus in soil solution and the total pool of sorbed P were estimated using 1:10 (w/v) 0.01 M CaCl2 extracts and acid ammonium oxalate (P(ox)), respectively. A desorption isotherm was constructed, which described the relationship between P in soil solution and the total pool of sorbed P for the soils of the 5- and 10-cm treatments. The Langmuir equation gave a very good description of the isotherm. In the long-term, 65% of P(ox) in the initial soil can be removed by plant uptake, as was calculated from the Langmuir equation and a critical P concentration in soil solution at which P uptake can just be maintained. Thus, P(ox) may be largely plant available. From the strong nonlinearity of the desorption isotherm, it can be understood why the relative decrease of the P concentration in the CaCl2 extracts was much larger than the relative decrease of P(ox). Mining soil P decreased the P concentration in soil solution effectively and, therefore, risk of P leaching from our P-enriched soil.
Bacterial removal and protozoan grazing in biological sand filters.	The objective of the study was to investigate the importance of protozoan predation as a biological removal mechanism in sand filters used for purification of bacteria from wastewater. Eleven sand filter columns were seeded with a high dose of wastewater (70 mm d(-1)) and a high concentration (10(8) colony forming units [CFU] mL(-1)) of Aeromonas hydrophila (American Type Culture Collection [ATCC] 14715) for a period of 30 d. Water samples from three filter outlets were analyzed for the concentration of A. hydrophila. In addition, one filter column was sacrificed each sampling day for the quantification of A. hydrophila, culturable bacteria (heterotrophic plate counts, HPC), total bacterial counts, and protozoa in the sand. The mean removal efficiency of A. hydrophila in the sand filter columns was 4.7 log units. The concentration of A. hydrophila in the sand filter effluent, however, had a clearly time-dependent pattern from high (log 6) and unstable concentrations to low and more stable levels (log 2). The removal efficiency of A. hydrophila correlated significantly (P = 0.0005, r2 = 0.6) with numbers of protozoa in the sand filters. Significantly higher (P < 0.05) concentrations of A. hydrophila were observed in sand filter effluents from columns treated with the protozoan inhibitor cycloheximide, compared with nontreated columns. Results from the present study show that protozoan grazing plays an important role as a bacterial removal mechanism in sand infiltration systems.
Effect of manure application timing, crop, and soil type on phosphorus leaching.	Phosphorus (P) leaching losses from manure applications may be of concern when artificial drainage systems allow for hydrologic short-cuts to surface waters. This study quantified P leaching losses from liquid manure applications on two soil textural extremes, a clay loam and loamy sand soil, as affected by cropping system and timing of application. For each soil type, manure was applied at an annual rate of 93 800 L ha(-1) on replicated drained plots under maize (Zea mays L.) in early fall, late fall, early spring, and as a split application in early and late spring. Manure was applied on orchardgrass (Dactylis glomerata L.) in split applications in early fall and late spring, and early and late spring. Drain water was sampled at least weekly when lines were flowing, and outflow rate and total P content were determined. High P leaching losses were measured in the clay loam as soon as drain lines initiated flow after manure application. Flow-weighted mean P leaching losses on clay loam plots averaged 39 times higher (0.504 mg L(-1)) than those on loamy sand plots (0.013 mg L(-1)), and were above the USEPA level of concern of 0.1 mg L(-1). Phosphorus losses varied among application seasons on the clay loam soil, with highest losses generally measured for early fall applications. Phosphorus leaching patterns in clay loam showed short-term spikes and high losses were associated with high drain outflow rates, suggesting preferential flow as the main transport mechanism. Phosphorus leaching from manure applications on loamy sand soils does not pose environmental concerns as long as soil P levels remain below the saturation level.
Effect of grazing on sandy grassland ecosystem in Inner Mongolia]	This experiment was carried out for 5 years in Horqin sandy land, lnner Mongolia, which had 4 treatments: Non-grazing (NG), light grazing (LG), moderate grazing (MG) and over grazing (OG). The results showed that different grazing intensities resulted in different development trend of the pasture ecosystem, of which, the injury of OG on pasture ecosystem was very great. The plant diversity, vegetation coverage, plant height and primary productivity under continuous overgrazing for 5 year were 87.9%, 82.1%, 94.0% and 57.0%, respectively, lower than those in NG. The biomass on the OG pasture was only 2.1% of NG, and the contents of soil clay, C and N as well as the quantities of soil microbes and small animals in OG were respectively 6.0%, 31.9%, 25.0%, 95.0% and 75.9% lower than those in NG, but the soil hardness was raised by 274.0%. Especially, the secondary productivity of the pasture became negative from the third year, and the productive foundation of the pasture ecosystem was completely destroyed. Non-grazing was beneficial to pasture, and enclosure caused an increase in vegetation coverage, plant height and primary productivity. The vegetation coverage, plant height and soil status in LG and MG were not as good as those in NG, but were stable and didn't show worsening trend. Based on the above results, it's considered that on the sandy pasture in the semi-arid area of Inner Mongolia, the rational grass utilization ratio is 45%-50%, and the suitable loading capacity is 3-4 sheep unit.hm-2.
Enhancement of 2,4-dinitrotoluene biodegradation by Burkholderia sp. in sand bioreactors using bacterial hemoglobin technology.	Continuous flow sand column bioreactor experiments were conducted to investigate the effect of 2,4-dinitrotoluene (DNT) concentration (i.e. DNT loading rate) and influent dissolved oxygen (DO) concentration on aerobic biodegradation of DNT by wild type (DNT) and recombinant (YV1) Burkholderia sp., the latter containing plasmid pSC160 which carries the gene (vgb) encoding the hemoglobin (VHb) from the bacterium Vitreoscilla. The experiments were conducted in two continuous flow packed bed sand column bioreactors, one growing the wild type strain and the other growing YV1. Under oxygen-rich feed conditions (6.8 mg DO/L in the feed) with an influent DNT concentration of 99.6 mg/L (DNT loading rate approximately = 9.2 mg/m2/day), the effluent DNT concentration from the wild type bioreactor reached 0.7 mg DNT/L in 40 days whereas it was less than 0.2 mg DNT/L for the YV1 bioreactor in about 25 days. When influent DNT concentration was increased to 214 mg/L (DNT loading rate approximately = 20.3 mg/m2/day) while maintaining the same influent DO level of 6.8 mg/L, the effluent DNT concentration increased to about 5 mg/L for the wild type bioreactor whereas it was maintained at less than 0.2 mg/L for the YV1 bioreactor. Additionally, when influent DO was reduced from 6.8 mg/L to 3.1 mg/L while the influent DNT concentration remained at 214 mg/L, the effluent DNT concentration increased to more than 20 mg/L for the wild type bioreactor but up to only 1.7 mg/L for the YV1 bioreactor. A subsequent increase of influent DO back to 6.6 mg/L reduced the effluent DNT concentration to about 5 mg/L for the wild type bioreactor and to 0.10-0.19 mg/L for the YV1 bioreactor. These results confirm the utility of vgb technology to enhance biodegradation of aromatic compounds under hypoxic conditions and also that this enhancement can be maintained over extended periods of time as evidenced by plasmid stability in Burkholderia YV1.
Toxicity of oil sands to early life stages of fathead minnows (Pimephales promelas).	The present study examines the effects of exposure to oil sands on the early life stages (ELS) of fathead minnows (Pimephales promelas). Sediments within and outside natural oil sand deposits were collected from sites along the Athabasca River (AB, Canada). The ELS toxicity tests were conducted with control water, natural oil sands, reference sediments, and oil-refining wastewater pond sediments. Eggs and larvae were exposed to 0.05 to 25.0 g sediment/L and observed for mortality, hatching, malformations, growth, and cytochrome P4501A induction as measured by immunohistochemistry. Natural bitumen and wastewater pond sediments caused significant hatching alterations and exposure-related increases in ELS mortality, malformations, and reduced size. Larval deformities included edemas, hemorrhages, and spinal malformations. Exposure to reference sediments and controls showed negligible embryo mortality and malformations and excellent larval survival. Sediment analyses using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry revealed high concentrations of alkyl-substituted polyaromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) compared to unsubstituted PAHs in natural oil sands (220-360 microg/g) and oil-mining wastewater pond sediments (1,300 microg/g). The ELS sediment toxicity tests are rapid and sensitive bioassays that are useful in the assessment of petroleum toxicity to aquatic organisms.
Noise exposure and hearing loss among sand and gravel miners.	The objectives of this study were to describe workplace noise exposures, risk factors for hearing loss, and hearing levels among sand and gravel miners, and to determine whether full shift noise exposures resulted in changes in hearing thresholds from baseline values. Sand and gravel miners (n = 317) were interviewed regarding medical history, leisure-time and occupational noise exposure, other occupational exposures, and use of hearing protection. Audiometric tests were performed both before the work shift (following a 12-hour noise-free interval) and immediately following the work shift. Full shift noise dosimetry was conducted. Miners' noise exposures exceeded the Recommended Exposure Limit (REL) of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) for 69% of workers, and exceeded the Mine Safety and Health Administration's action level for enrollment in a hearing conservation program for 41% of workers. Significantly higher noise exposures occurred among employees of small companies, among workers with a job classification of truck driver, among males, and among black workers. Hearing protection usage was low, with 48% of subjects reporting that they never used hearing protection. Hearing impairment, as defined by NIOSH, was present among 37% of 275 subjects with valid audiograms. Black male workers and white male workers had higher hearing thresholds than males from a comparison North Carolina population unexposed to industrial noise. Small but statistically significant changes in hearing thresholds occurred following full shift noise exposure among subjects who had good hearing sensitivity at baseline. In a logistic regression model, age and history of a past noisy job were significant predictors of hearing impairment. Overall, sand and gravel workers have excessive noise exposures and significant hearing loss, and demonstrate inadequate use of hearing protection. Well-designed hearing conservation programs, with reduction of noise exposure, are clearly needed.
Analytical model of solute transport by unsteady unsaturated gravitational infiltration.	Penetration of reactive solute into a soil during a cycle of water infiltration and redistribution is investigated by deriving analytical closed form solutions for fluid flux, moisture content and contaminant concentration. The solution is developed for gravitational flow and advective transport and is applied to two scenarios of solute applications encountered in the applications: a finite pulse of solute dissolved in irrigation water and an instantaneous pulse broadcasted onto the soil surface. Through comparison to simulations of Richards' flow, capillary suction is shown to have contrasting effects on the upper and lower boundaries of the fluid pulse, speeding penetration of the wetting front and reducing the rate of drying. This leads to agreement between the analytical and numerical solutions for typical field and experimental conditions. The analytical solution is further incorporated into a stochastic column model of flow and transport to compute mean solute concentration in a heterogeneous field. An unusual phenomenon of plume contraction is observed at long times of solute propagation during the drying stage. The mean concentration profiles match those of the Monte-Carlo simulations for capillary length scales typical of sandy soils.
Microleakage of cervical cavities restored with flowable composites.	To investigate the microleakage of cervical cavities restored with flowable composites in conjunction with an all-in-one adhesive system (AQ Bond) and an experimental two-step self-etching primer system (ABF) after thermocycling or flexural load cycling.
The scientific rationale and development of an optimized dentifrice for the treatment of dentin hypersensitivity.	To describe the development of a new dentin hypersensitivity treatment, Colgate Sensitive Maximum Strength dentifrice, containing 5% potassium nitrate as the anti-hypersensitivity active agent. The objective was to develop a home-use hypersensitivity dentifrice that would be superior to the market leader, improving on what is available, which also contains 5% potassium nitrate as the anti-hypersensitivity active agent.
Photolysis of naphthenic acids in natural surface water.	Naphthenic acids are toxic and corrosive substances in oil sands leachates comprising a group of saturated aliphatic and alicyclic carboxylic acids in hydrocarbon deposits (petroleum, oil sands bitumen, and crude oils). In the current study, photolysis was applied to naphthenic acid mixtures and individual compounds to determine the efficacy of a variety of UV/vis radiation sources for reducing both concentration and aryl hydrocarbon (Ah) receptor binding as a measure of toxicity. The results show that the concentrations of neither the compounds nor the mixtures were significantly reduced in Athabasca River water, although compositional changes occurred within the mixtures and Ah receptor binding potential was affected by photolysis. Photolysis at UV254 was the most effective radiation source applied in all instances.
Succession in inland sand ecosystems: which factors determine the occurrence of the tall grass species Calamagrostis epigejos (L.) Roth and Stipa capillata L.?	In many successional series, grass species play an important role in mid-successional stages. Using calcareous sand ecosystems in the northern upper Rhine valley (Germany) as a model, we analyzed successional trajectories and the factors that determine their direction. A 5- to 7-year study of 23 permanent plots is presented. Polar ordination revealed that succession starts with pioneer communities (dominated by Corynephorus canescens and cryptogams) and can eventually lead to relatively stable Calamagrostis epigejos or Stipa capillata tall grass stands. At some sites, Cynodon dactylon can play a major role, but we focused on the two previously mentioned species. Gradient analyses of their ecological amplitudes by means of principal components and regression analysis were carried out in order to elucidate the factors determining the successional trajectories. Soil analyses of 71 plots established significantly positive linear relations for C. epigejos with respect to total nitrogen, extractable phosphate and potassium, as well as soil moisture indicator values. C. epigejos is not able to spread if the stress factors nutrient deficiency and dryness are combined. Lower tolerance limits are presented. In contrast, S. capillata shows negative relations to phosphate, declining strongly at P contents > 20 mg kg(-1). At a moisture indicator value of around 3.2 (indicating dry sites), S. capillata reaches its optimum. S. capillata is a model for a tall grass species which, even with low nutrient levels and dry soil conditions, can be successful in mid-successional phases; but it is displaced by C. epigejos if soil moisture increases or phosphate/potassium supply is higher. Regarding a general framework, the successional phases are characterized by processes such as replacement of species, facilitation, and inhibition.
A transmission electron microscopy study of silica and kerogen biosignatures in approximately 1.9 Ga gunflint microfossils.	Microfossils preserved in chert from the;1.9 Ga Gunflint Formation (Schreiber Beach, Ontario, Canada) were studied with transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and analytical TEM (ATEM). Our goals were to uncover the style of silicification relative to the distribution of organic matter, and to evaluate the distribution and evolution of organic matter, at submicroscopic spatial scales. Petrographically the microfossils typically display filamentous or coccoidal morphologies, and consist of quartz crystals surrounded by kerogen along grain boundaries. ATEM analysis revealed that quartz associated with kerogen consists of 200-500nm-sized, round crystallites, whereas the chert matrix is comprised of randomly oriented, polygonal microquartz (5-10 microm). Silica spheroids found within some fossils consist of quartz subgrains in an amorphous to poorly crystalline matrix, suggesting that precipitation of opaline silica on organic matter occurred with subsequent but incomplete transformation to quartz. Some coccoidal microfossils surround large euhedral quartz crystals (up to 5 microm in diameter) that appeared to have influenced the distribution of kerogen during crystal growth. These euhedral quartz crystals commonly contain elongated (50-100 nm) iron-rich crystallites. Energy-loss, near-edge structure analysis of kerogen associated with a coccoidal microfossil showed that it is composed of amorphous carbon with no evidence of graphitization. TEM results revealed significant differences in the style of silicification between microbe-shaped microfossils and their surrounding chert matrix, as well as the presence of amorphous kerogen.
Silica xerogels as a delivery system for the controlled release of different molecular weight heparins.	In this work, we investigated a sol-gel derived silica matrix as a delivery system for the prolonged release of different molecular weight heparins, which allows the glycosaminoglicons to retain their whole biological activity. Several xerogels were obtained by embedding different molecular weight heparins into matrices prepared by using different amount of NH4OH as a catalyst during gel formation. Gel synthesis parameters, drug release properties, and xerogels surface area were evaluated. Unfractionated, low and oligo-molecular weight heparins were embedded into xerogels and the effect of the molecular weight on the release kinetics and the retained biological activity has been investigated. The results show that the surface area of the matrix is a determinant parameter affecting drug release kinetics. This structural feature can be modified by varying the catalyst tetraethoxysilane molar ratio used during the matrix synthesis. In most cases release kinetics fitted the Higuchi diffusive model and a lower diffusion rate was observed from silica matrices characterized by a smaller surface area. In the case of matrices with lower surface area, loaded with unfractionated heparin, zero order kinetics was observed. In this paper, we have defined a heparin release silica xerogel system and we have pointed out how modulation of its synthesis parameters allows adjusting the release of heparin according to therapeutic needs.
Percoll gradient-centrifuged capacitated mouse sperm have increased fertilizing ability and higher contents of sulfogalactosylglycerolipid and docosahexaenoic acid-containing phosphatidylcholine compared to washed capacitated mouse sperm.	Although Percoll gradient centrifugation has been used routinely to prepare motile human sperm, its use in preparing motile mouse sperm has been limited. Here, we showed that Percoll gradient-centrifuged (PGC) capacitated mouse sperm had markedly higher fertilizing ability (sperm-zona pellucida [ZP] binding and in vitro fertilization) than washed capacitated mouse sperm. We also showed that the lipid profiles of PGC capacitated sperm and washed capacitated sperm differed significantly. The PGC sperm had much lower contents of cholesterol and phospholipids. This resulted in relative enrichment of male germ cell-specific sulfogalactosylglycerolipid (SGG), a ZP-binding ligand, in PGC capacitated sperm, and this would explain, in part, their increased ZP-binding ability compared with that of washed capacitated sperm. Analyses of phospholipid fatty acyl chains revealed that PGC capacitated sperm were enriched in phosphatidylcholine (PC) molecular species containing highly unsaturated fatty acids (HUFAs), with docosahexaenoic acid (DHA; C22: 6n-3) being the predominant HUFA (42% of total hydrocarbon chains of PC). In contrast, the level of PC-HUFAs comprising arachidonic acid (20:4n-6), docosapentaenoic acid (C22:5n-6), and DHA in washed capacitated sperm was only 27%. Having the highest unsaturation degree among all HUFAs in PC, DHA would enhance membrane fluidity to the uppermost. Therefore, membranes of PGC capacitated sperm would undergo fertilization-related fusion events at higher rates than washed capacitated sperm. These results suggested that PGC mouse sperm should be used in fertilization experiments and that SGG and DHA should be considered to be important biomarkers for sperm fertilizing ability.
A prospective cohort study on the comparison of risk of occupational dust exposure and smoking to death]	To compare the effects of dust exposure and smoking on mortality.
Pure-silica optical waveguides, fiber couplers, and high-aspect ratio submicrometer channels for electrokinetic separation devices.	A new fabrication procedure for integration of ultraviolet transparent pure-silica planar waveguides, fiber couplers and high-aspect ratio submicrometer channels is presented. Only a single photolithographic mask step is required. The channels are 80-90 microm deep and the width can be reduced to about 0.5 microm, corresponding to a height-to-width ratio of more than 150. The core of the waveguides consists of pure silicon dioxide, which is favorable over doped silica, due to the absence of absorption centers associated with the dopants. This furthermore improves the long-term stability of the waveguides, because of an increased radiation resistance of the glass. The propagation loss decreases from 1.0 dB/cm at 200 nm to 0.2 dB/cm at 800 nm, which, to our knowledge, is the lowest propagation loss reported for integrated planar waveguides in the ultraviolet wavelength region to date. The effective optical path length is 1.2 mm for an absorbance cell with a nominal length of 1.0 mm, indicating effective suppression of stray light. The limit of detection for paracetamol when present in the entire channel network was determined to 3 microg/mL. Finally, the applicability of the fabricated devices for capillary electrophoresis was evaluated by separation of caffein, paracetamol and ketoprofone using absorbance detection at 254 nm.
Nanowires for surface enlargement of narrow-bore fused-silica tubing.	A method for preparation of silica nanowires with dimensions of d = 10-100 nm, l = 5-500 nm, is described. The nanostructured material is an integral part of the inner surface of narrow bore fused-silica capillary tubing. The wire preparation method is based on a decomposition of 2-chloro-1,1,2-trifluoroethyl methyl ether at elevated temperature and pressure. The silica bulk material is rearranged via a sustained silica-hydrogen fluoride chemistry, and reaction mechanisms for this process are proposed. The method is suitable for preparing long lengths of tubing with the modified surface. It is our belief that the texture of the capillary wall with its increased surface area is useful for applications such as microreactions, catalysis, and high-resolution pressure and/or electrodriven open-tubular liquid chromatography.
Examination of DNA extract from kernels and processed foods using silica-base resin]	A rapid and simple DNA extraction method is needed to detect genetically modified recombinant DNA in soybean kernels and processed foods. However, since various kernels and processed foods differ greatly in form, a uniform DNA extraction method has proved elusive. The silica-base resin DNA extraction method does not use any organic solvent, and the operation is simple and the cost per extraction is low, although the frequency of its use is very low and few domestic reports exist. We therefore studied suitable conditions for a silica-base resin method. We also developed the method to get more pure DNA from soybean kernels. The silica-base resin method was found to be adequate for extracting DNA from various processed foods for PCR amplification with endogenous gene primers. In the case of DNA extraction from soybean kernels, pure DNA could be efficiently extracted after pre-heating the soybean suspension in TNE buffer. The extracted DNA showed higher ratios of absorption at 260 nm/280 nm and 260 nm/230 nm than those for samples obtained with previous methods. Moreover, our observations suggested that the extraction time could be reduced to within 30 min for processed foods such as tofu.
Tosylation of endocrine-disruptive alkylphenolic compounds in a solid-phase reaction system consisting of C18-modified silica gel and aqueous buffer solution.	The tosylation reaction of endocrine-disruptive alkylphenolic compounds in a solid-phase aqueous system was investigated with the aim of developing an environment-friendly and efficient derivatization method for HPLC analyses of environmental samples. The phenols were rapidly and efficiently converted to the tosyl derivatives on a commercially available ODS solid-phase cartridge by passing an aqueous buffer solution through it. The solid-phase aqueous tosylation system has been incorporated into a preconcentration step performed by solid-phase extraction from environmental water.
The effects of nano-materials on the behaviors of sludge mortar specimens.	In this research, nano-composites are added to sewage sludge ash to create a mixture, which then replaces part of cement. Nano-composites are manufactured from pure quartzose sand. The influences of different amounts of nano-composites and sludge ash on mortar are evaluated. Cement, sludge ash (0%, 10%, and 20%), and nano-composites (0%, 0.5%, 1%, 2%, and 3%), which defined as the percent weight of cement and sludge ash, are mixed together in batches to make mortar specimens. Results show that the flowability of sludge ash mortar reduces with increasing amount of cement replaced and of nano-composites added. The compressive strength of mortar lowers when more amounts of cement are replaced by sludge ash, but increases with more quantity of nano-composites added. Moreover, the study shows that nano-composites can fortify the compressive strength of mortar. With the help of efficiency of compressive strength, nano-composites benefit most to the mortar with replacement of 10% sludge ash, followed by the substitution of 20% and 0%.
Integration of Jacobson's pellicle method into proteomic strategies for plasma membrane proteins.	A modified form of the cationic colloidal silica technique for plasma membrane isolation has been combined with SDS-PAGE, mass spectrometry, and bioinformatics for evaluation as a proteomics strategy with human multiple myeloma cells and human breast cancer cells. On the basis of Western blots, half of the protein isolated is estimated to come from the plasma membrane. Forty-three percent of the 366 proteins identified by mass spectrometry had been previously classified as plasma membrane proteins. Thirty proteins previously categorized as hypothetical membrane proteins are now reported to be expressed.
Preconcentration of proteins on microfluidic devices using porous silica membranes.	Fluorescently labeled proteins were electrophoretically concentrated on microfabricated devices prior to separation and laser-induced fluorescence detection on the same device. The proteins were concentrated using a porous silica membrane between adjacent microchannels that allowed the passage of buffer ions but excluded larger migrating molecules. Concentrated analytes were then injected into the separation column for analysis. Two basic microchip designs were tested that allowed sample concentration either directly in the sample injector loop or within the microchannel leading from the sample reservoir to the injector. Signal enhancements of approximately 600-fold were achieved by on-chip preconcentration followed by SDS-CGE separation. Preconcentration for CE analysis in both coated and uncoated open channels was also demonstrated. Fluorescently labeled ovalbumin could be detected at initial concentrations as low as 100 fM by using a combination of field-amplified injection and preconcentration at a membrane prior to CE in coated channels.
Optical tracking of organically modified silica nanoparticles as DNA carriers: a nonviral, nanomedicine approach for gene delivery.	This article reports a multidisciplinary approach to produce fluorescently labeled organically modified silica nanoparticles as a nonviral vector for gene delivery and biophotonics methods to optically monitor intracellular trafficking and gene transfection. Highly monodispersed, stable aqueous suspensions of organically modified silica nanoparticles, encapsulating fluorescent dyes and surface functionalized by cationic-amino groups, are produced by micellar nanochemistry. Gel-electrophoresis studies reveal that the particles efficiently complex with DNA and protect it from enzymatic digestion of DNase 1. The electrostatic binding of DNA onto the surface of the nanoparticles, due to positively charged amino groups, is also shown by intercalating an appropriate dye into the DNA and observing the Forster (fluorescence) resonance energy transfer between the dye (energy donor) intercalated in DNA on the surface of nanoparticles and a second dye (energy acceptor) inside the nanoparticles. Imaging by fluorescence confocal microscopy shows that cells efficiently take up the nanoparticles in vitro in the cytoplasm, and the nanoparticles deliver DNA to the nucleus. The use of plasmid encoding enhanced GFP allowed us to demonstrate the process of gene transfection in cultured cells. Our work shows that the nanomedicine approach, with nanoparticles acting as a drug-delivery platform combining multiple optical and other types of probes, provides a promising direction for targeted therapy with enhanced efficacy as well as for real-time monitoring of drug action.
Effect of sand and sawdust bedding materials on the fecal prevalence of Escherichia coli O157:H7 in dairy cows.	Farm management practices that reduce the prevalence of food-borne pathogens in live animals are predicted to enhance food safety. To ascertain the potential role of livestock bedding in the ecology and epidemiology of Escherichia coli O157:H7 on farms, the survival of this pathogen in used-sand and used-sawdust dairy cow bedding was determined. Additionally, a longitudinal study of mature dairy cattle housed on 20 commercial dairy farms was conducted to compare the prevalence of E. coli O157:H7 in cattle bedded on sand to that in cattle bedded on sawdust. E. coli O157:H7 persisted at higher concentrations in used-sawdust bedding than in used-sand bedding. The overall average herd level prevalence (3.1 versus 1.4%) and the number of sample days yielding any tests of feces positive for E. coli O157:H7 (22 of 60 days versus 13 of 60 days) were higher in sawdust-bedded herds. The choice of bedding material used to house mature dairy cows may impact the prevalence of E. coli O157:H7 on dairy farms.
A high-throughput, low-volume enzyme assay on solid support.	A high-throughput enzyme assay is described that uses 1 microL or less of enzyme solution for each test. Enzyme solutions are deposited by robotic handling in a throughput of over 1000 tests/h on the surface of silica gel plates that have been preimpregnated with fluorogenic substrates. The reaction is quantitated by fluorescence. The method is compatible with water-insoluble substrates (lipases), water-soluble substrates (glycosidases), whole-protein substrates (proteases), and enzyme inhibition measurements. Hydrolytically labile umbelliferyl esters can be used to assay lipases in this format without background hydrolysis. High throughput and reproducibility were tested by fingerprint analysis of lipases and esterases against 37 different fluorogenic ester substrates. A set of eight fluorogenic unbelliferyl esters was selected for optimal activity screening of lipases and esterases on silica gel plates.
Assessment of exposure to quartz, cristobalite and silicon carbide fibres (whiskers) in a silicon carbide plant.	The main objective of the present paper is to report on the concentration of silicon carbide (SiC) fibres, crystalline silica and respirable dust in a Canadian SiC production plant and to compare the results with earlier investigations. The second objective is to tentatively explain the differences in concentration of the fibrogenic substances between different countries. The assessment of SiC fibres, dusts, respirable quartz and cristobalite was performed according to standard procedures. The highest 8 h time-weighted average concentrations of fibres were found among the crusher and backhoe attendants and the carboselectors with an arithmetic mean of 0.63 fibres ml(-1) for the former group and 0.51 fibres ml(-1) for the latter group. The results of respirable SiC fibres in the Canadian plant were lower than in the Norwegian and Italian industries. Most of the 8 h time-weighted average concentrations for quartz were less than or around the limit of detection of 0.01 mg m(-3). The maximum 8 h time-weighted average concentration for quartz was found among the carboselectors (0.157 mg m(-3)), followed by the labourers (0.032 mg m(-3)). Similarly, most of the 8 h time-weighted average cristobalite measurements were less than the limit of detection of 0.01 mg m(-3) except for the carboselectors where it was found to be 0.044 mg m(-3). The assessment of the Italian occupational settings exposure demonstrated elevated quartz concentrations, while cristobalite was absent. The authors have concluded that the investigations that were performed in the last two decades in this field by researchers from different countries seem to support that SiC fibres (whiskers) constitute a major airborne health hazard.
Design and validation of a job-exposure matrix to silica]	To develop a population-based matrix of job-exposure to crystalline silica in Brazil and to estimate its validity.
Sorption, degradation, and leaching of tebuthiuron and diuron in soil columns.	A study in small outdoor lysimeters was carried out to determine the leaching of the herbicides tebuthiuron and diuron in different soil types, using undisturbed soil columns. Soil sorption and degradation for both herbicides were also studied in the laboratory. The multi-layered AF (Attenuation Factor) model was evaluated for predicting the herbicides leaching in undisturbed soil columns. Tebuthiuron leached in greater amounts than diuron in both soils. Sorption was well represented by linear and Freundlich equations, however parameters from the linear equations were used in the AF model. In general, both herbicides presented very low sorption, with diuron presenting lower values of sorption coefficient than tebuthiuron in the two soils. Chromatographic data indicated rapid late degradation of diuron and tebuthiuron in both soil types at two different depths. Simple exponential equation was not able to represent degradation, thus a bi-exponential equation was used, and some model adjusting was needed. Average measured amounts of each herbicide were compared with amounts predicted by the multi-layered-soil AF model. The AF model was able to predict leaching amounts in the sandy soil, especially for diuron, however it did not perform well in the clayey soil.
Selectivity of the herbicide flazasulfuron applied after postemergence in sugarcane (Saccharum spp. L.) crop.	The selectivity of the herbicide flazasulfuron was evaluated when applied at two rates (50 and 100 g/ha) with and without surfactants (Aterbane or Agral at 0.2% v/v). The treatment was applied at early (three leaves) and late (five to six leaves) stages of the postemergence of sugarcane plants (var. RB845257) grown in two soils (sandy and clay) with good moisture status before and after application. Despite the toxicity symptoms, especially at the late stage with the higher rate of application in the sandy soil, the herbicide did not affect the growth nor the stalk yield. The presence of the surfactants had no effect on the toxicity symptoms.
Large-volume stacking in capillary electrophoresis using pH hysteresis of the electroosmotic flow in a bare fused-silica capillary.	For large-volume stacking with the electroosmotic flow pump (LVSEP) in capillary electrophoresis of anionic analytes it is required that the electroosmotic mobility (EOM) should be smaller than the magnitudes of the effective mobilities of the analytes. When a fused-silica capillary is treated with an acidic solution, the silanoate group on the silica surface is neutralized to silanol and the EOM is suppressed. Due to the slow deprotonation equilibrium of the silanol group at an intermediate pH, this reduced EOM can be retained during a number of electrophoresis runs. Using a bare fused-silica capillary preconditioned with 0.01 M HCl, successful LVSEP at pH 6.0 was achieved for weakly acidic compounds with two orders of magnitude enhancements in the concentration sensitivity. The repeatability in migration times of ten analytes stacked by LVSEP in a single day was excellent with the relative standard deviation (RSD) less than 1% (n = 6). The day-to-day repeatability was also excellent with RSD less than 3% (n = 3 x 6) when the capillary was preconditioned each day.
The characterization and distribution of inorganic chemicals in tributary waters of the lower Athabasca river, Oilsands region, Canada.	At present, there are two large industrial plants recovering oil from the lower Athabasca oil sands area and there are plans for several more mines in the area. There are environmental concerns for aquatic life in areas downstream of current and future oil sands activities. To assess and predict potential impacts of industrial activities, it is important to separate impacts from those produced by naturally occurring oil sands deposit. Studies were therefore conducted to determine whether the water quality of tributaries to the Athabasca River, which have not been impacted by anthropogenic activities, is affected by inorganic constituents resulting from flowing through reaches with natural oilsands deposit. Three tributaries, Steepbank River, Mackay River, and Ells River at upstream and downstream locations on each stream were investigated during four surveys from 1998 to 2000. In addition to some physical parameters such as pH, conductance and hardness and the major ions (calcium, magnesium, sodium, potassium, bicarbonate, chloride, sulfate, and silicates), seventeen trace metals were investigated. Some of these metals, especially iron and manganese, were of high concentrations and in some instances, particularly in a survey conducted during the spring freshets in April 1999, exceeded guidelines for the protection of aquatic life. The observed concentrations of metals seem to be of natural origin and can be used as base-line data for future assessment of anthropogenic activities in the oil sand region.
The effect of EDTA on Helianthus annuus uptake, selectivity, and translocation of heavy metals when grown in Ohio, New Mexico and Colombia soils.	The use of two EDTA concentrations for enhancing the bioavailability of cadmium, chromium, and nickel in three natural soils (Ohio, New Mexico and Colombia) was investigated. The resulting uptake, translocation and selectivity with Helianthus annuus after mobilization were also examined. In general, plants grown in the sandy-loam Ohio soil had a higher uptake that resulted in a selectivity and total metal content of Cd>Cr>>Ni and 0.73 mg and Cr>Cd>>Ni and 0.32 mg for 0.1 and 0.3 g kg-1 EDTA, respectively. With the silty-loam New Mexico soil, although the total metal uptake was not statistically different the EDTA level did alter the selectivity; Cd>Cr>>Ni (0.1 g kg-1 EDTA) and Cd>>Cr>Ni (0.3 g kg-1 EDTA). Conversely, with the Colombian (sandy clay loam) soil increasing the EDTA level resulted in a higher total metal uptake (0.62 mg) than the 0.1 g kg-1 (0.59 mg) treatment. For all three soils, the translocation of Cd was limited. Evaluating the mobile metal fraction with and without EDTA determined that the chelator was capable of overcoming mass transfer limitations associated with the expandable clay fraction in the soils. Root wash results and root biomass concentrations indicated that Cd sorption was occurring. Therefore limited Cd translocation was attributed to insufficient phytochelatin levels.
Mechanisms of dioxin formation from the high-temperature oxidation of 2-chlorophenol.	The homogeneous, gas-phase oxidative thermal degradation of 2-chlorophenol was studied in a 1 cm i.d., fused silica flow reactor at a concentration of 88 ppm, reaction time of 2.0 s, over a temperature range of 300 to 1000 degrees C. Observed products in order of yield were as follows: 4,6-dichlorodibenzofuran (4,6-DCDF) > dibenzo-p-dioxin (DD) > 1-monochlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (1-MCDD), 4-chlorodibenzofuran (4-MCDF), dibenzofuran (DF), naphthalene, chloronaphthalene, 2,4-dichlorophenol, 2,6-dichlorophenol, phenol, chlorobenzene, and benzene. In contrast to pyrolysis, 4,6-DCDF is the major product rather than DD, and 1-MCDD and naphthalene are formed at temperatures as low as 400 degrees C. Under oxidative conditions, .OH and Cl. are the major carriers, which favors 4,6-DCDF formation over DD or 1-MCDD through abstraction of H. through diketo- and ether- intermediates. It is proposed that below 500 degrees C, unimolecular tautomerization/HCI elimination and CO elimination/isomerization reactions result in the formation of 1-MCDD and naphthalene, respectively.
Solvent release into a sandy aquifer. 2. Estimation of DNAPL mass based on a multiple-component dissolution model.	A chlorinated solvent mixture (2.0 L of trichloroethylene, 0.5 L of chloroform, and 2.5 L of tetrachloroethylene) was released into a sandy aquifer to create a heterogeneously distributed DNAPL (dense nonaqueous-phase liquid) source. The dissolution and dissolved-phase plume development from this source were studied in detail along a cross-section downgradient of the source for a period of approximately 1 year. At the conclusion of the experiment, the site was excavated to map the actual distribution of solvent residuals in the subsurface. Multiple-component dissolution theory provides a tool for the estimation of the mass of a multiple-component DNAPL source present in the groundwater. Concentration ratios between the compounds change with time, and those changes can be used to estimate the mass of DNAPL upgradient of the monitoring point(s) or well(s). The method is independent of the dilution occurring in the groundwater and only requires observations of time series of the contaminants in one or more monitoring points. For the field experiment, the method was applied using the measured concentrations of individual sampling points, the depth-integrated concentrations, the area-integrated concentrations, and the effluent concentrations of the cell. The experiment showed that multiple-component dissolution theory may be a valuable tool for the estimation of the mass of multiple-component DNAPL residuals in the saturated zone.
Synthesis, characterization, and controlled nitric oxide release from S-nitrosothiol-derivatized fumed silica polymer filler particles.	A new type of nitric oxide (NO)-releasing material is described that utilizes S-nitrosothiols anchored to tiny fumed silica (FS) particles as the NO donor system. The synthetic procedures suitable for tethering three different thiol species (cysteine, N-acetylcysteine, and N-acetylpenicillamine) to the surface of FS polymer filler particles are detailed. The thiol-derivatized particles are converted to their corresponding S-nitrosothiols by reaction with t-butylnitrite. The total NO loading on the resulting particles range from 21-138 nmol/mg for the three different thiol-derivatized materials [S-nitrosocysteine-(NO-Cys)-FS, S-nitroso-N-acetylcysteine (SNAC)-FS, and S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP)-FS], with SNAP-FS yielding the highest NO loading. NO can be generated from these particles when suspended in solution via the addition of copper(II) ions, ascorbate, or irradiation with visible light. The SNAC-FS and SNAP-FS particles can be blended in polyurethane and silicone rubber matrixes to create films that release NO at controlled rates. Polyurethane films containing SNAC-FS submerged in phosphate-buffered saline (pH 7.4) generate NO surface fluxes approximately 0.1-0.7x10(-10) mol cm-2 min-1 and SNAP-FS films generate NO fluxes of approximately 0-7.5x10(-10) mol cm-2 min-1 upon addition of increasing amounts of copper ions. Silicone rubber films containing SNAC-FS or SNAP-FS do not liberate NO upon exposure to copper ions or ascorbate in phosphate-buffered saline solution. However, such films are shown to release NO at rates proportional to increasing intensities of visible light impinging on the films. Such photoinitiated NO release from these composite materials offers the first NO-releasing hydrophobic polymers with an external on/off trigger to control NO generation.
Evaluation of extraction procedures for removing lead from contaminated soil.	Soil extraction of lead contaminated soil collected from sites near an abandoned battery recycling and secondary lead-smelting factory was investigated for potential use in decontaminating soil at the sites. A fractionation study was conducted to elucidate soil retention mechanism for Pb at the site. Three soil pits were selected from an area surrounding the factory based on level of Pb contamination. Soil samples were collected from each pit in two layers: surface soil and subsoil (0-15 cm and 15-30 cm). Soil physical analysis showed that the soil texture was sandy loam and sandy clay loam with clay content between 11-21%. Soil pH was strongly acid to moderately acid (pH 4.8-5.9). Pb levels in the surface soil were 1620 and 153 mg kg(-1) (air-dried basis) respectively for heavily and slightly contaminated soil. A reference soil site contained 15 mg kg(-1) of Pb. Partitioning studies indicated that more than 90% of total Pb in the soil existed in three primary fractions: exchangeable, carbonate, and Fe-Mn oxide. This suggested that Pb sources entering the soil from the Pb factory remained in relatively weakly bound forms, which are mobile and have potentially biological availability. Mobility of Pb as in the soil assessed by mobility factor (MF) was as high as 75% indicating a high potential of Pb remobilization. Due to high mobility, the Pb would be amendable to remediation or removal by soil extraction procedures. To determine if such weekly bound Pb could be easily removed, both soil washing (ex situ) and soil flushing (in situ) techniques were evaluated for potential Pb remediation procedure. Particle size separation of soil into coarse (2.0-0.25 mm), medium (0.25-0.15 mm), and fine size (<0.15 mm) was conducted before initiating soil washing for comparing Pb removal efficiency in these fractions with the indigenous soil fraction. Using EDTA (2:1 mole to Pb) as a washing solution up to 85-95% of Pb was removed under the optimum conditions (retention time = 60 min), and liquid to solid ratio (L/S) at 5:1 for coarse fraction and 10:1 for smaller fraction. Pb could be removed from contaminated soil using EDTA extraction; however, the efficiency was higher in the coarse texture soil fraction. As a result particle size separation is recommended before application of the soil washing procedure. For smaller soil particle size fraction a series of extraction was needed for obtaining an adequate extraction efficiency. Three solvents tested as flushing solution showed 85, 84, and 74% of Pb was removed by EDTA (2:1 mole to Pb), 1M HNO3, and 0.2 M ammonium citrate, respectively after flushing with 20 pore volumes. The capacity of the three flushing solutions to remove Pb from the contaminated soil were ranked in the order: EDTA approximately 1 M HNO3 > 0.2 N ammonium citrate. However, in highly contaminated soil all solvent extract required several Pb leaching cycles. The flushing process using 1 M HNO3 increased soil acidity to extreme acid conditions (pH 2.0) resulting in adverse effects to physicochemical properties of the treated soil. In general, results showed three factors influenced Pb removal by the extraction techniques: (i) initial Pb concentrations, (ii) Pb partitioning within soil, and (iii) particle size of soil matrix.
Mass and flux distributions from DNAPL zones in sandy aquifers.	At three industrial sites in Ontario, New Hampshire, and Florida, tetrachloroethylene (PCE) and trichloroethylene (TCE), released decades ago as dense nonaqueous phase liquids (DNAPLs), now form persistent source zones for dissolved contaminant plumes. These zones are suspended below the water table and above the bottoms of their respective, moderately homogeneous, unconfined sandy aquifers. Exceptionally detailed, depth-discrete, ground water sampling was performed using a direct-push sampler along cross sections of the dissolved-phase plumes, immediately downgradient of these DNAPL source zones. The total plume PCE or TCE mass-discharge through each cross section ranged between 15 and 31 kg/year. Vertical ground water sample spacing as small as 15 cm and lateral spacing typically between 1 and 3 m revealed small zones where maximum concentrations were between 1% and 61% of solubility. These local maxima are surrounded by much lower concentration zones. A spacing no larger than 15 to 30 cm was needed at some locations to identify high concentration zones, and aqueous VOC concentrations varied as much as four orders of magnitude across 30 cm vertical intervals. High-resolution sampling at these sites showed that three-quarters of the mass-discharge occurs within 5% to 10% of the plume cross sectional areas. The extreme spatial variability of the mass-discharge occurs even though the sand aquifers are nearly hydraulically homogeneous. Depth-discrete field techniques such as those used in this study are essential for finding the small zones producing most of the mass-discharge, which is important for assessing natural attenuation and designing remedial options.
The simultaneous modelling of metal ion and humic substance transport in column experiments.	Pulsed column experiments using Co, fulvic acid and porous sediment packing, along with up/down-flooding experiments using Eu, humic acid and intact sandstone blocks have been performed. The elution of metal and humic and their distribution along the sandstone columns have been measured. A mixed equilibrium and kinetic coupled chemical transport model has been used to simulate the results. In both cases, one exchangeable and one non-exchangeable component have been used to simulate the interaction of metal and humic substance. For the pulsed experiments, a simple equilibrium approach was used to model humic sorption, while a two component, kinetic model was required for the sandstone columns.
Microleakage of endodontically treated teeth restored with prefabricated posts and tooth-colored restorative materials.	This study evaluated the microleakage of endodontically treated teeth restored with prefabricated dowels and tooth-colored restoratives (Solitaire, Surefil, Filtek P60, Admira, Z-100) as core materials with and without the use of a flowable composite liner. A total of 200 extracted premolars were endodontically treated and prepared for post-core restorations. Prefabricated posts were inserted and cemented with resin cement into the root canals. Each resin system included the corresponding bonding agent for each respective flowable composite. For each group, half of the teeth were restored with composite alone, while the others were restored with the composite lined with flowable liner. Teeth were thermocycled for 1,000 cycles between 5 and 55 degrees C using a 30-second dwell time. The teeth were then coated with nail polish, placed in 5% methylene blue for 24 hours, sectioned, and scored for microleakage. Flowable liners reduced microleakage. Z-100 both with and without flowable liner demonstrated better resistance to leakage. Solitaire, Admira, and Filtek P60 showed more leakage than the other materials.
Recycling of construction and demolition waste materials: a chemical-mineralogical appraisal.	Building activity is currently demanding remarkable amounts of inert materials (such as gravel and sand) that are usually provided by alluvial sediments. The EU directives and Italian Legislation are encouraging the re-use of construction and demolition waste provided by continuous urban redevelopment. The re-utilisation of building waste is a relatively new issue for Italy: unfortunately the employment of recycled inert materials is still limited to general bulk and drainage fills, while a more complete re-evaluation is generally hampered by the lack of suitable recycling plants. In this paper, chemical-mineralogical characterization of recycled inert materials was carried out after preliminary crushing and grain-size sorting. XRF and XRD analysis of the different grain-size classes allowed us to recognise particular granulometric classes that can be re-utilised as first-order material in the building activity. Specifically, the presented chemical-mineralogical appraisal indicates that the recycled grain-size fraction 0.6-0.125 mm could be directly re-employed in the preparation of new mortar and concrete, while finer fractions could be considered as components for industrial processing in the preparation of cements and bricks/tiles.
Determination of environmental factors influencing methane oxidation in a sandy landfill cover soil.	It is advantageous to use coarse soils as landfill cover because they allow better aeration of the biologically active zone. In this study, therefore, patterns of methane oxidation were investigated under various environmental conditions including soil moisture content, temperature, and the addition of NH4+ in a sandy landfill cover soil. The kinetics of CH4 oxidation was also studied at different moisture contents and temperatures. Soil moisture content of 10% (wt/wt) resulted in the maximum CH4 oxidation rate (19.2-22.4 nmol gsoil DW(-1) min(-1)). A Vmax value was not significantly different when the moisture content was more than 10%, but a Km value increased from 5.23 to 75.24 microM as the moisture content increased. The ratio of Vmax to Km was the highest at 10% moisture content. The CH4 oxidation rate increased as the incubation temperature increased, and Q10 values and optimum temperature were determined to be 2.57-2.69 and 30 degrees C, respectively. Both Vmax and Km values decreased at the temperatures below and above 30 degrees C. The addition of various levels of NH4+ resulted in increased or decreased CH4 oxidation rates, however, the initiation of appreciable CH4 oxidation was delayed with increasing amounts of NH4+ application in all samples tested. Among the environmental variables tested, moisture content control seems to be the most important and an efficient means of managing methane oxidation when sandy soils are used in landfill cover.
Mechanical and histologic examination of titanium alloy material treated by sandblasting and anodic oxidization.	To evaluate the biocompatibility and the bone-bonding strength of new titanium alloy materials treated by sandblasting and anodic oxidization, 3 cylindric test pieces having different surface roughnesses were manufactured and implanted into the diaphyses of the femurs of New Zealand white rabbits. Six weeks later, shear loading tests and histologic examination were carried out. Strong interfacial bonding strength and active new bone formation were confirmed in the peripheral area of the test pieces having a surface roughness (Ra = 2.7 microm and Ra = 4.7 microm). Judging from stable fixation to shear loading in bone tissue, it was concluded that group C (Ra = 2.7 microm) had the best surface condition of the 2 groups. Further detailed examination is required to demonstrate that the surface treatment used for group C (a micro rough surface on a macro rough surface structure) can enhance active bone formation and stable fixation in bone tissue.
Sorption studies of mixed chromium and chlorinated ethenes at the field and laboratory scales.	The sorption and desorption behavior of hexavalent chromium and chlorinated ethenes in a sandy ground water aquifer with a low reduction capacity was evaluated by performing a variety of analyses and experiments at the laboratory (batch and column studies) and field (in situ injection-withdrawal experiment) scales. The partitioning coefficients determined from the field and laboratory experiments are generally similar. Both sets of experiments yielded relatively low partition coefficients for chromium and chlorinated ethenes. The column studies and injection-withdrawal experiment indicate that chromium has the potential to leach from aquifer sediments and act as a secondary source of contamination. However, the magnitude of the secondary source effect is not significant due to low concentrations of leachable contamination. The chromium sorption isotherm data were also simulated using the triple layer surface complexation model (TLM). The isotherm data were modeled using the TLM, illustrating the applicability of geochemical modeling for sorption of chromium to these sediments under variable pE-pH conditions.
Kinematic and electromyography analysis of submaximal differences running on a firm surface compared with soft, dry sand.	Kinematic and electromyography (EMG) aspects of running on a firm surface and on soft, dry sand were studied to elucidate mechanisms contributing to the higher energy cost (EC) of sand running. Eight well-trained males (mean VO(2max) 64.3+/-8.6 ml.kg(-1).min(-1)) performed barefoot running trials on a firm surface (wooden floor) and on a soft, dry sand surface (track dimensions 8.8 mx60 cm; depth 13 cm) at 8 and 11 km.h(-1). Kinematic and EMG data were collected simultaneously using an integrated six-camera 50 Hz VICON motion analysis system, an AMTI force-plate and a 10-channel EMG system. Running at 8 km.h(-1) on sand resulted in a greater (P<0.05) stance time (t(s)) compared with the firm surface. At 11 km.h(-1), sand running resulted in a greater stance-to-stride ratio (P<0.005), a shorter stride length (SL) (P<0.05), and a greater cadence (P<0.001) compared with the firm surface values. Hip and knee flexion at initial foot contact (IFC), mid-support (MS) and flexion maximum were greater (P<0.001) running on sand compared with firm surface values at 8 and 11 km.h(-1). Over duration of stride, Hamstring (semimembranosus and biceps femoris) EMG was greater running on sand compared with the firm surface at 8 (P<0.001) and 11 (P<0.05) km.h(-1). During the stance phase in the 8-km.h(-1) trials, EMG in the Hamstrings (P<0.001), Vastii (Vastus lateralis and Vastus Medialis) (P<0.02), Rectus femoris (Rec Fem) (P<0.01) and Tensor Fascia Latae (Tfl) (P<0.0001) were greater than the firm surface measures. During stance in the 11-km.h(-1) trials, Tfl EMG was greater (P<0.02) running on sand compared with the firm surface. At IFC and MS, Hamstrings' EMG was greater on sand at both running speeds (P<0.001). For the Vastii (P<0.02), Rec Fem (P<0.0001) and Tfl (P<0.0001) muscles, the EMG at MS running on sand at both speeds was greater than the firm surface values. The increased EC of running on sand can be attributed in part to the increased EMG activation associated with greater hip and knee range of motion compared with firm surface running.
Prior injury accelerates subsequent wound closure in a mouse model of regeneration.	Tissue regeneration and scarless healing involves the complete replacement and functional restoration of damaged organs and tissues. In this study of the "scarless healing" MRL mouse model, we demonstrate that 2-mm diameter through-and-through holes made in the cartilaginous part of previously injured MRL mouse ears are closed more efficiently, and that the regenerative repair response is significantly accelerated compared with unprimed MRL and control "nonhealer" strains of mice. Accelerated healing was detected both locally and distally from the original site of injury indicating the involvement of systemic components such as circulating cell types or soluble factors. Histologically, we observed early differences during the wound repair process (before Day 4 post injury) with accelerated formation of blastema-like structures, epidermal downgrowths, and enhanced epithelium thickening in wound border zones in primed MRL mice versus unprimed MRL mice. Although the mechanism of tissue regeneration remains unclear, the results from this study justify the use of the MRL model for further experimentation directed toward the identification of proteins and cell types capable of stimulating scarless tissue regeneration.
Using transgenic Caenorhabditis elegans in soil toxicity testing.	Soil bioassays are important tools for evaluating toxicological effects within the terrestrial environment. The American Society for Testing and Materials E2172-01 Standard Guide outlines a method for conducting laboratory soil toxicity tests using the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. This method is an efficient tool for extracting C. elegans from soil samples and can be carried out after a 24-h exposure period using relatively small amounts of soil. Drawbacks of this method include problems with (1) recovery of nematodes from soils containing a high percentage of organic matter, and (2) distinguishing indigenous nematode species from nematodes added for the laboratory test. Due in part to these issues, C. elegans has not been extensively accepted for use in soil testing. To address these concerns and improve upon the American Society for Testing and Materials method, this project focused on using transgenic strains of C. elegans carrying a GFP-expressing element. Lethality and behavior tests revealed that the transgenic nematodes respond similarly to the wild-type N2 strain, indicating that they can be used in the same manner in soil testing. The GFP marker is easily identifiable not only within soils containing a large amount of organic matter, but also in field-collected soils containing indigenous nematodes. These results support the use of transgenic GFP C. elegans in soil bioassays as a tool to further the reliability of laboratory toxicity tests.
Conformational changes of the amyloid beta-peptide (1-40) adsorbed on solid surfaces.	The conformational change of the 39-43 residues of the amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) toward a beta-sheet enriched state promotes self-aggregation of the peptide molecules and constitutes the major peptide component of the amyloid plaques in Alzheimer patients. The crucial question behind the self-aggregation of Abeta is related to the different pathways the peptide may take after cleavage from the amyloid precursor proteins at cellular membranes. This work is aiming at determining the conformation of the Abeta (1-40) adsorbed on hydrophobic Teflon and hydrophilic silica particles, as model sorbent surfaces mimicking the apolar transmembrane environment and the polar, charged membrane surface, respectively. The mechanism by which the Abeta interacts with solid surfaces strongly depends on the hydrophobic/hydrophilic character of the particles. Hydrophobic and electrostatic interactions contribute differently in each case, causing a completely different conformational change of the adsorbed molecules on the two surfaces. When hydrophobic interactions between the peptide and the sorbent prevail, the adsorbed Abeta (1-40) mainly adopts an alpha-helix conformation due to H-bonding in the apolar part of the peptide that is oriented towards the surface. On the other hand, when the peptide adsorbs by electrostatic interactions beta-sheet formation is promoted due to intermolecular association between the apolar parts of the adsorbed peptide. Irrespective of the characteristics of the solid sorbent, crowding the surface results in intermolecular association between adsorbed molecules leading to a strong aggregation tendency of the Abeta (1-40). [Diagram: see text] CD spectra of Abeta (1-40) at pH 7: A) in solution ([Abeta]=0.2 mg.ml(-1)) freshly prepared (line) and after overnight incubation (symbols);B) on Teflon (Gamma=0.5 mg.m(-2)).
Expansion of high flow mixtures of gypsum-bonded investments in contact with absorbent liners.	To evaluate the expansion of high flow mixtures of gypsum-bonded investments in contact with two dry absorbent liners since early setting.
B cell heterogeneity in the teleost kidney: evidence for a maturation gradient from anterior to posterior kidney.	The fish immune system is quite different from the mammalian system because the anterior kidney forms the main site for hematopoiesis in this species. Using transcription factor-specific Abs derived from the murine system, together with anti-trout Ig Abs and Percoll gradient separation, we analyzed B cells from trout kidney sections and compared them to those from spleen and blood. For this study, immune cells were separated by Percoll gradients, and the resulting subpopulations were defined based on expression of B cell-specific transcription factors Pax-5 and B lymphocyte-induced maturation protein-1, as well as proliferative and Ig-secreting properties. Comparison of kidney, blood, and spleen B cell subsets suggest that 1) the anterior kidney contains mostly proliferating B cell precursors and plasma cells; 2) posterior kidney houses significant populations of (partially) activated B cells and plasmablasts; and 3) trout blood contains resting, non-Ig-secreting cells and lacks plasma cells. After LPS induction of resting B cells in vitro, the kidney and spleen have a high capacity for the generation of plasma cells, whereas the blood has virtually none. Our results indicate that trout B cell subsets are profoundly different among blood, anterior kidney, posterior kidney, and spleen. We hypothesize that developing B cells mature in the anterior side of the kidney and then migrate to sites of activation, either the spleen or the posterior kidney. Lastly, our data support the notion that the trout kidney is a complex, multifunctional immune organ with the potential to support both hemopoiesis as well as humoral immune activation.
Hemoglobin adsorption isotherm at the silica-water interface with evanescent wave cavity ring-down spectroscopy.	Evanescent wave cavity ring-down spectroscopy (EW-CRDS) is used to observe the adsorption isotherm for hemoglobin (Hb) from controlled urine samples to assess the potential for rapid diagnosis in hemoglobinuria. The absorbance of Hb at 425 nm is monitored using an alexandrite laser-pumped, room temperature, LiF:F2+** color-center pulsed laser. A minimum absorbance detection level of 2.57 x 10(-4) is achieved, corresponding to a minimum detectable concentration of Hb in urea of 5.8 nM. A multilayered Hb biofilm is formed, and a minimum of eight layers are required to model the adsorption isotherm, allowing for cooperative binding within the layers and extending 56 nm into the interface. A binding constant for Hb to silica 18.23+/-7.58 x 10(6) M is derived, and a binding constant for Hb to Hb in subsequent layers is determined to be 5.631+/-0.432 x 10(5) M. Stoichiometric binding coefficients of 1.530+/-0.981 for layer one and 1.792+/-0.162 for subsequent layers suggest that cooperative binding both to the silica surface and between the layers of the biofilm is important.
Determination of sorption coefficients of pharmaceutically active substances carbamazepine, diclofenac, and ibuprofen, in sandy sediments.	Laboratory batch studies were conducted to characterize the sorption behavior of three pharmaceutically active substances (carbamazepine, diclofenac, and ibuprofen) in different sediment types. The sediments were natural sandy sediments from the water saturated zone and the unsaturated zone in the Berlin (Germany) area. They are characterized as medium and fine-grained sands, both with low organic carbon content. The results of the experiments show that sorption coefficients were generally quite low. Distribution coefficients (K(d) values) determined by the batch experiments varied from 0.21 to 5.32 for carbamazepine, 0.55 to 4.66 for diclofenac, and 0.18 to 1.69 for ibuprofen. Comparison of the organic carbon normalized sorption coefficient K(OC) values based on correlation equations with actual experimental data revealed that the calculated data for carbamazepine is of the same order as the experimental data. For diclofenac and ibuprofen the calculated values are much higher than the experimental data, showing a much higher mobility of diclofenac and ibuprofen in natural aquifer sediments than indicated by correlation equations based on octanol water distribution coefficients.
A study of K variability and its effect on solute transport in subsurface-flow sand filters by measurement and modelling.	Hydraulics of subsurface flow filters (SSF) was studied by measurement of soil hydraulic conductivity (K) variation and performing tracer tests in two SSF filters consisting of 1-4 mm Ca rich sand (shell sand). Soil samples were carefully taken at several locations in Filter I. A tracer experiment was conducted in the undisturbed Filter II using KI. The measured K variability in Filer I was used to analyze the variations in tracer breakthrough. The spatially distribution of K was obtained by fitting a variogram to observed data and interpolation using Kriging. The tracer residence probability density function (PDF) was determined by modelling the tracer movement with a 3-D groundwater model. The observed and simulated tracer arrival was compared for cases with constant K, constant K and dispersion (D), and for spatially variable K and dispersion. The results show that groundwater models were well suited to simulate solute movement in the SSF system studied. An almost perfect fit to observed tracer PDF was obtained when variable K and dispersion was included in the model. This indicates that information on K variability and dispersion is important for studying solute movement in SSF constructed wetlands.
Variation of microbiological parameters within planted soil filter for domestic wastewater treatment.	Microbial community structure was assessed in a horizontal subsurface flow planted sand filter treating domestic wastewater with molecular and culture-based methods. The diversity and spatial distribution of the microbial community was investigated using a PCR-DGGE (eubacterial and archaeal primers, ammonia-oxidizing bacteria, and ammonium monooxygenase specific primers), and spread plate and MPN counts. Significant differences were found in the spatial distribution of the microbial community structure. Data analysis revealed that different components of the microbial community possessed different spatial distribution patterns within the filter bed and depending on community type, relationships with soil chemical, and microbiological parameters varied. The most important spatial pattern in microbial community structure within the constructed wetland was related to the depth gradient, followed by differences between inflow and outflow. A comparison of a number of heterotrophic bacteria between inlet and outlet pipes as well as between two sampling depths showed no significant differences. In addition, the variation of the abundance of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria demonstrated no clear spatial pattern.
Microbial characteristics and nitrogen transformation in planted soil filter for domestic wastewater treatment.	We studied an experimental horizontal subsurface-flow planted sand filter in Kodijrve, Estonia. We measured the microbial biomass, nitrogen immobilization, potential nitrification, soil respiration, multiple carbon source utilization patterns of the microbial consortia of the soil samples, the carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus content of the soil samples, the water quality and physicochemical indicators in water sampling wells as well as emissions of CO2, N2, NO2, and CH4 from the two beds (the dry bed and the wet bed) in the wetland. The potential nitrification of the upper layer of the dry bed could not be attributed primarily to autotrophic nitrification, or the nitrifying bacteria in this layer could be facultative heterotrophs, whereas autotrophic nitrification is predominant in the upper layer of the wet bed. It also was found that changing aeration conditions in the lower layer of the dry bed have resulted in a lower diversity of the microbial community and led to a relative depletion of easily degradable soil carbon resources.
Analysis of nitrogen removal processes in a subsurface flow carbonate sand filter treating municipal wastewater.	Controlled experiments were carried out in a mesoscale subsurface flow sand filter treating municipal wastewater from a single household. The system consisted of a 50 cm high vertical flow column (pre-filter) with unsaturated flow and a 3 m long horizontal subsurface flow unit (main filter) with saturated flow. Fluxes of nitrogen and carbon were analyzed in 4 different operating conditions (low and high loading, with and without the prefilter unit). Water samples were taken from the inlet, the outlet and within the sand filter at different depths and locations and analysed for water quality (Tot N, NO3-N, NH4-N, TOC, DOC, CODcr, BOD5, SS, pH, and EC) and dissolved gas content (N2O, CH4, and CO2). Emissions of N2O, CH4, and CO2 were measured with the closed-chamber technique adjacent to water quality sampling points. The results show that prefiltering in a vertical, unsaturated flow column changed the incoming ammonium to nitrate during low loading. During high loading part of the ammonium nitrified in the pre-filter was lost by denitrification. Within the horizontal main filter there were two pathways for the incoming nitrate: denitrification and dissimilatory nitrate reduction to ammonium (DNRA).
Salinity effect on the characteristics of saturated horizontal flow in small boxes containing Filtralite-P.	Constructed wetlands are ecological systems that have proven their efficiency in treating wastewater and reducing pollutants of concern in both warm and cold climate. Oversizing these systems is common in the design process due to the inadequate knowledge about water movement in the porous media used. This study investigates the saturated horizontal flow pattern in a lightweight aggregates especially made for use in constructed wetlands termed Filtralite P using computer tomography and a chloride tracer under different hydraulic loading rates and inlet concentrations in a laboratory box experiment. The salt concentrations showed a major effect on the retention time and the flow by enhancing short-circuiting, preferential flow pattern. A hydraulic loading rate of 25 cm day(-1) is suggested as the safest loading rate with Filtralite P under different ranges of wastewater concentrations with a possibility to use a loading rate of 50 cm day(-1) only with municipal wastewater and not the industrial wastewater. The computer tomography images indicated that flow was going first to the bottom and then fluidise upward with a sharp boundary between the incoming and ambient water.
Kinetic desorption and sorption of U(VI) during reactive transport in a contaminated Hanford sediment.	Column experiments were conducted to investigate U(VI) desorption and sorption kinetics in a sand-textured, U(VI)-contaminated (22.7 micromol kg(-1)) capillary fringe sediment from the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Hanford site. Saturated column experiments were performed under mildly alkaline conditions representative of the Hanford site where uranyl-carbonate and calcium-uranyl-carbonate complexes dominate aqueous speciation. A U(VI)-free solution was used to study contaminant U(VI) desorption in columns where different flow rates were applied. Sorbed, contaminant U(VI) was partially labile (11.8%), and extended leaching times and water volumes were required for complete desorption of the labile fraction. Uranium-(VI) sorption was studied after the desorption of labile, contaminant U(VI) using different U(VI) concentrations in the leaching solution. Strong kinetic effects were observed for both U(VI) sorption and desorption, with half-life ranging from 8.5 to 48.5 h for sorption and from 39.3 to 150 h for desorption. Although U(VI) is semi-mobile in mildly alkaline, subsurface environments, we observed substantial U(VI) adsorption, significant retardation during transport, and atypical breakthrough curves with extended tailing. A distributed rate model was applied to describe the effluent data and to allow comparisons between the desorption rate of contaminant U(VI) with the rate of shortterm U(VI) sorption. Desorption was the slower process. We speculate that the kinetic behavior results from transport or chemical phenomena within the phyllosilicate-dominated fine fraction present in the sediment. Our results suggest that U(VI) release and transport in the vadose zone and aquifer system from which the sediment was obtained are kinetically controlled.
Sandplay in Jungian analysis: matter and symbolic integration.	Jung described a way of thinking, tied to sensations and feelings, that is a thought connected to the body. Again in The Archetypes and the Collective Unconscious, Jung (1954) speaks of the symbol as a 'live body', corpus et anima. If the mind cannot credit itself with the discomfort that manifests through the body, this is a sign of a separation between mind and body. A consequence of all this is the literalization of the discomfort which makes it impossible to have a symbolic dimension. Therapy activates a process in which the patient can move from a stage of separation to a possible connection between mind and body, resulting in changes in the level of communication and of awareness. The mind opens itself to symbolization and the body becomes a field for a common language. From our reflections we have come to ascertain that we can speak of analysis only when an imaginary space is achieved, an intermediate space between the patient and the analyst, a space that is created from the intertwining of the symbolic capability of the patient with that of the analyst. Focusing our attention on the use of sandplay in analytic therapy, we know that one puts in the sand box objects that are marks of our psyche, visible traits that contain actions, corporeal movements and feelings. When one focuses on the overall representation built, one can go beyond the literal image and the analyst, keeping alive the image through his symbolic capability, opens the possibility of a dialogue with the symbolic dimension. The imagination as a symbolic thought is the humus that allows the analyst to maintain the intermediate symbolic level open by activating a symbolic process within the dialectic of the analysis.
Development of the new desiccator system for measuring the removal effect of the formaldehyde as an indoor air pollutant by the adsorbent]	The new desiccator system with measures for the prevention of dew drops and the processing of the formaldehyde (FA) gas discharged from the final desiccator was produced, and the FA removal rate for various adsorbents was examined. For the prevention of dew drops in the desiccator, a hygroscopic bottle containing silica gel was used next to the FA gas generator, and humidity was adjusted by adjusting the interval between the FA gas outlet (a) and the desiccant (b). The removal of the harmful FA gas discharged from the final desiccator (n=5) is an important in the environmental preservation. To solve this problem, the FA gas was passed through an oxidation bottle containing KMnO(4)-H(2)SO(4) solution, and it was possible to confirm the complete decomposition of the FA by increase of the CO(2) and elimination of the FA. For the determination of the FA concentration in the desiccator, 100 ml air was beforehand collected using a gas collector into a 100 ml vial bottle containing 2 ml distilled water, and 50 ml of air from each desiccator was injected using a glass syringe. This was left under a slightly reduced pressure for 20 min, and the FA concentration was determined by the AHMT method. The FA removal rate after 1 h for each adsorbent (0.5 g) was 50% or more for chitin, KIMCO and silica gel. The removal efficacy for activated carbon was higher for fine particles than for coarse particles, and a dose-response relationship was established.
Culture and identification of human adult Leydig cells]	To obtain a simple and effective method to isolate and purify adult Leydig cells.
On the nature of Athabasca Oil Sands.	The existence of a thin aqueous film, separating bitumen (a form of heavy oil) from inorganic solids in Athabasca Oil Sands, is analysed based on "first principles". There is a general consensus in the literature on the hydrophilic character of the solids in oil sands. However, a review of the references cited in support of the solids being encapsulated in thin water envelopes produced a surprising lack of evidence. A theoretical analysis indicates that a water film separating clean, hydrophilic quartz and bitumen is stable under most conditions, and unstable for acidic oil sand ores. The existence of water-wet solids in the Athabasca Oil Sands remains a reasonable yet unproven postulate. It could therefore be dangerous to accept the water-wet solids postulate and then use it to interpret other phenomena.
Investigation of a novel mixed-mode stationary phase for capillary electrochromatography. Part III: Separation of nucleosides and nucleic acid bases on sulfonated naphthalimido-modified silyl silica gel.	Capillary electrochromatography (CEC) with a novel stationary phase, 3-(4-sulfo-1,8-naphthalimido)propyl-modified silyl silica gel (SNAIP), proved useful for the separation of nucleosides and nucleic acid bases. The application scope of SNAIP, which is a relatively polar reversed-phase (RP)-type stationary phase, was successfully expanded to include the CEC separation of polar compounds although the combination of non-polar RP phase with highly aqueous mobile phase is often inadequate. Due to the permanently charged sulfonic acid groups and the naphthalimidopropyl moiety, the retention of charged and relatively polar nucleosides as well as bases on the SNAIP stationary phase was effected by electrostatic and hydrophobic interactions. This yielded a unique selectivity on SNAIP toward nucleosides and bases. The characteristic EOF on SNAIP, which was stronger at higher aqueous content in the mobile phase, proved suitable for the separation of polar compounds in reversed-phase mode with highly aqueous mobile phase. In addition, when a double stepwise gradient was employed to accelerate the latest peak (adenine), the elution time was shortened to less than half its original duration.
Recent developments in the field of monolithic stationary phases for capillary electrochromatography.	This review summarizes the contributions to the rapidly growing area of monolithic columns based on both silica and synthetic polymers for capillary electrochromatography and chip electrochromatography, with a focus on those published during the year 2004. A wide variety of both modified approaches to the "old" monoliths and new monoliths have been reported despite the very short period of time covered. This demonstrates that monolithic stationary phases have become a well-established format in the field of electrochromatography. The simplicity of their preparation as well as the good control over their porous properties and surface chemistries make the monolithic separation media an attractive alternative to capillary columns packed with particulate materials.
Immobilization of dermatan sulphate on a silica matrix and its possible use as an affinity chromatography support for heparin cofactor II purification.	Dermatan sulphate (DS) is a glycosaminoglycan which catalyses specifically thrombin inhibition by a plasmatic inhibitor, Heparin cofactor II (HCII). DS was insolubilized on a silica matrix to study its interaction with HCII. The immobilization of DS was performed with a good yield on a silica previously coated with polysaccharides in order to neutralize the negatively charged silanol groups. The value of the affinity constant of insolubilized DS for HCII, measured by the adsorption isotherm, is consistent with the value obtained for soluble DS. The DS bound to the silica matrix was also tested as a chromatographic support for the purification of HCII from human plasma; the optimum conditions for HCII adsorption and desorption were determined. The eluted HCII was obtained with a good yield (21%) and with no contamination by antithrombin III, the other main plasmatic inhibitor of thrombin.
Affinity chromatography of fibroblast growth factors on coated silica supports grafted with heparin.	Dextran-coated silica beads are excellent supports for affinity chromatography of proteins. They can be easily grafted using conventional coupling methods with different active ligands, such as heparin. Fibroblast growth factors develop specific interactions with heparin through well-defined amino acids sequences. The heparin-dextran coated silica phases exhibit an affinity for these growth factors. Under our experimental conditions, the basic form can be absorbed on the solid support at a moderate salt concentration (0.5 M sodium chloride) and can be selectively desorbed by increasing the ionic strength of the eluent. The purification performances of such phases are compared to those obtained on the heparin grafted soft gels. Because of their mechanical properties, the dextran-coated silica supports were also used in high-performance affinity chromatography to purify fibroblast growth factors from a bovine brain crude extract.
Examining tooth flexure effects on cervical restorations: a two-year clinical study.	This study evaluated the clinical performance of dentinal adhesives in seven various material/technique combinations. No statistically significant differences were observed among the restorative combinations, or among technique variables after two years in terms of retention, sensitivity or USPHS categories. However, other factors related to tooth flexure--such as occlusal stress, patient age, restorative material and restoration location--showed statistically significant associations with retention failures. These results support a tooth flexural theory of restoration retention.
Isolation of equine peripheral blood mononuclear cells using Percoll.	The concentration of Percoll required for isolating equine peripheral blood mononuclear cells has been reinvestigated. A poor cell yield was obtained at the 60 per cent concentration already reported. It is recommended that workers specifically interested in high yields of mononuclear cells, for investigation of lymphocyte and monocyte functions, use a concentration of 65 per cent Percoll. However, workers wishing to isolate pure populations of equine neutrophils might consider a concentration of 70 per cent in the upper layer of Percoll used to retain the mononuclear cells.
Release of fluoride from light cured lining materials.	Fluoride was extracted from 0.3 ml samples of five different light cured lining materials. From two brands, fluoride concentrations ranging from 5 to 10 ppm were quickly established and maintained. From three other brands only very small amounts of fluoride were released. The fluoride released was related to the possible caries preventive effect.
Lactic acid enantiomers: separation by thin-layer chromatography on silica gel plates impregnated with Cu2+.	A simple and fast method for the separation of D- and L-lactic acid enantiomers by thin-layer chromatographic silica gel precoated plates impregnated with Cu(II) is proposed. The two lactic acid enantiomers, dissolved in acetone, are deposed on these plates. D- and L-lactic acids form complexes with Cu(II), with different Rf values, suitable for radiochemical measurements. The real separation was confirmed by enzymatic tests carried out on spots of D and L forms scraped from the chromatographic plates. Total radioactivity of 14C-labeled D- and L-lactic acids was recovered. A Cu/lactic acid complex is evidenced.
Multiresidue screen for organophosphorus insecticides using gel permeation chromatography--silica gel cleanup.	A multiresidue screen for quantitative determination of 43 organophosphorus insecticides in 5 g of plant and animal tissues is described. The organophosphorus insecticides are extracted with methanol-dichloromethane (10 + 90, v/v) and cleaned up using automated gel permeation chromatography with hexane-ethyl acetate (60 + 40) eluant and in-line silica gel minicolumns. Concentrated extracts are analyzed by gas chromatography with flame photometric detection. The method recovers 43 organophosphorus insecticides in the range of 72 to 115%. Analysis of fortified bovine liver (n = 5) shows an average 95.9 +/- 4.8% recovery at the 0.05 micrograms/g level and 93 +/- 3.8% at the 0.5 micrograms/g level. Analysis of fortified bovine rumen content (n = 5) shows an average 98 +/- 4.2% recovery at the 0.1 micrograms/g level and 98.7 +/- 2.8% at the 1 micrograms/g level. Method detection limits ranged from 0.01 to 0.05 micrograms/g for the compounds studied using a nominal 5 gram sample.
Non-ideal behaviour of silica-based stationary phases in trifluoroacetic acid-acetonitrile-based reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatographic separations of insulins and proinsulins.	Several C18 stationary phases were found to behave non-ideally when insulins and proinsulins were eluted with shallow acetonitrile gradients in 0.1% trifluoroacetic acid, resulting in poor peak shapes or no elution at all. With triethylammonium phosphate or ammonium sulphate as buffer components, the insulins and proinsulins were eluted with excellent peak shapes, presumably owing to better masking of residual silanol groups on the stationary phases. Similar use of trifluoroacetic acid-acetonitrile gradients on the less hydrophobic C4 or C3 stationary phases resulted in excellent peak shapes. The difficult separation of rat proinsulin I and II, which are important for the study of rat insulin biosynthesis, was only achieved with two different stationary-mobile phase combinations.
Assessing the aquatic hazard of commercial hydrocarbon resins.	Hydrocarbon resins are used to modify polymer products to achieve desired functional properties for a diverse range of products. These complex hydrocarbon-based mixtures are typically poorly soluble in water. However, resins may leach lower-molecular-weight monomers or impurities upon contact with water, thus posing a potential hazard to the aquatic environment. The bioavailability and toxicity of leachable constituents of four solid and three liquid resins were evaluated by analyzing water-accommodated fractions prepared with each resin, using biomimetic solid phase microextraction (SPME) techniques. Liquid resins exhibited concentrations of bioavailable constituents that were sufficiently elevated to cause acute toxicity to the aquatic organism Daphnia magna. All solid resins exhibited lower bioavailable concentrations of leachable constituents that were unlikely to pose an aquatic toxicity concern. Since observed toxicity of both resin types was generally consistent with bioavailable concentrations determined using SPME fiber measurements, it is concluded that this approach provides a convenient in vitro screening tool that can help reduce the use of animal testing in environmental hazard assessment of complex hydrocarbon-based substances.
Development and functional characterization of monoclonal antibodies recognizing chicken lymphocytes with natural killer cell activity.	We have developed two monoclonal antibodies which detect cell surface antigens present on chicken lymphocytes mediating natural killer (NK) cell activity against the avian tumor cell target. The monoclonal antibodies, K-14 and K-108, stained 17 and 6% of splenic lymphocytes, and 11 and 14% of peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL), respectively, and fewer than 5% of thymic and bursal lymphocytes. Neither of these monoclonal antibodies stained adherent macrophages or the MC29-virus transformed monocytic cell line. Both monoclonal antibodies significantly inhibited NK cell activity in a standard 4 h 51Cr-release cytotoxicity assay using the LSCC-RP9 tumor cell line as target cells at an effector to target ratio of 50:1. Pretreatment of splenocytes with either monoclonal antibody in the presence of rabbit complement (C) resulted in a significant reduction in NK cell activity. However, the monoclonal antibody K-1 which detects normal chicken macrophages did not interfere with NK cell activity. The monoclonal antibody K-108 significantly blocked Fc receptor-mediated rosette formation of sheep red blood cells coated with IgG antibodies (EA) by 56% while the monoclonal antibody K-14 did not show a significant blocking. These results indicate that the monoclonal antibodies K-108 and K-14 identify different epitopes present on the surface of chicken splenic lymphocytes which mediate spontaneous NK cytotoxicity.
Octadecyl silica: a solid phase for protein purification by immunoadsorption.	Immunoaffinity chromatography involves binding of an antigen or antibody to a solid matrix, usually agarose, frequently using the cyanogen bromide method. These methods are laborious, rather expensive, and their use has been mostly restricted to immunopurifications on the microscale. We propose here the use of octadecyl silica (SiCl8) beads, a matrix for HPLC, as an alternative solid phase for protein immunopurification and immunoadsorption. Antibodies or antigens are strongly bound to SiCl8 by a simple incubation; radiolabeled antibodies can only be eluted from SiCl8 by detergent-containing solutions. After the remaining free binding sites have been saturated with bovine serum albumin, SiCl8 is incubated with the antigen- or antibody-containing crude preparations and is then poured into a minicolumn. The nonspecifically bound proteins are removed by washing; specific proteins are eluted by disruption of the antigen-antibody complexes with a low pH buffer. With this methodology, we have obtained high purity preparations of proteins in single steps, even when these proteins are present in trace amounts (picograms) in a complex mixture such as human serum. Similarly, specific antibodies against an intracellular parasite (Trypanosoma cruzi) were completely absorbed from human serum with SiCl8 coated with parasite antigens.
Techniques for selection of normal-chromatin sperm preparations.	Various sperm preparation techniques, swim-up and Percoll gradient, and the newly developed Wang's tube system, were evaluated for their ability to recover normal-chromatin sperm. Twenty human semen samples, collected by masturbation, were studied simultaneously with the three methods. Analysis by Acridine orange fluorescence test was performed on all samples. Pretreated semen contains 58 +/- 22% green sperm (fertile/normal). Treatment with Wang's tube system resulted in 99 +/- 1.0% green sperm; Percoll gradient, 78 +/- 11%; and swim-up technique, 72 +/- 15%. It would appear that Wang's tube system yields a high-quality sperm preparation with enough concentration, very active forward progression, and greatly improved sperm morphology, while containing normal-chromatin, double-stranded DNA.
Human spermatozoa selected by Percoll gradient or swim-up are equally capable of binding to the human zona pellucida and undergoing the acrosome reaction.	Several techniques have been used for selecting motile spermatozoa including Percoll and albumin gradients, swim-up, and glass wool filtration. A high yield of motile spermatozoa as well as an enhancement of motility are the most desirable features of a practical method. An equally important consideration is whether or not these techniques select functionally normal spermatozoa. In this study we have compared two methods for separation of motile cells, swim-up and Percoll gradient. Normal semen samples from 12 different men were used in this study. Each sample was simultaneously processed by swim-up and Percoll gradient using modified Tyrode's medium. After the sperm concentration was adjusted to 1 x 10(7) spermatozoa/ml, the suspensions were incubated at 37 degrees C, 5% CO2 in air. In each suspension the percentage of sperm recovery, percentage of motile spermatozoa, percentage of acrosome reacted spermatozoa (either spontaneously or stimulated with human follicular fluid), percentage of zona-free hamster oocytes penetrated, and number of spermatozoa bound to the human zona pellucida were determined. The results obtained indicated that the percentage of sperm recovery was higher with the Percoll gradient than with the swim-up procedure (P less than 0.001). However, no significant differences were found between these two sperm populations in the percentage of motile cells, in the percentage of acrosome reacted spermatozoa, and in the percentage of zona-free hamster oocytes penetrated. In addition, the number of spermatozoa bound per zona pellucida was similar for spermatozoa selected by Percoll or swim-up. We conclude that there were no functional differences between the spermatozoa selected by either method.
Radiographic abnormalities in Vermont granite workers exposed to low levels of granite dust.	The issue of whether low levels of granite dust exposure lead to radiographic abnormalities after a lifetime of exposure has not been settled. In 1983, we carried out a radiographic survey of the Vermont granite industry, consisting of quarry and stone shed workers who had been exposed to the low dust levels prevailing in the industry since 1938 to 1940. Films were read by three "B" readers, using the ILO classification system, which requires the identification of both rounded and irregular opacities, as well as combinations of both. X-ray films were taken of 972 workers, out of a total work force of approximately 1,400. Of these films, 28 (3 percent) were interpreted by either two or three of the three readers as showing abnormalities consistent with pneumoconiosis. Only seven films (or 0.7 percent of the entire cohort) showed nodular or rounded opacities of the type typically seen in uncomplicated silicosis. The remainder of the abnormal x-ray films showed irregular opacities, largely in the lower lung zones, which are of uncertain significance, but may be related to heavy cigarette smoking and aging, and possibly dust inhalation. In addition, total gravimetric dust concentrations in the workplace were measured; 417 respirable-size mass samples showed concentrations of 601 micrograms/cu m +/- 368 micrograms/cu m. Using previously published estimates of 10 percent quartz in granite dust, the average quartz concentration was 60 micrograms/cu m. Twelve percent of the samples exceeded 100 micrograms/cu m, the current OSHA standard for quartz. We conclude that control of quartz exposure in the Vermont granite industry to levels which are on average less than the current OSHA standard has essentially eliminated definite radiographic changes of silicosis. The significance of the irregular opacities in the lower lung zones seen on a majority of the 28 x-ray films judged to be abnormal is not clear.
Comparison of characteristics of human spermatozoa selected by the multiple-tube swim-up and simple discontinuous Percoll gradient centrifugation.	The multiple-tube swim-up (MT-SU) and simple, discontinuous Percoll gradient centrifugation are two recent methods for the processing of human spermatozoa for assisted reproductive technologies. The present study was undertaken to compare the effects of these two methods on various parameters of spermatozoal qualities of normospermic semen samples. Both methods were found to select spermatozoa of better percentage motility, percentage normal morphology, viability, functional integrity of plasma membrane, movement characteristics including the curvilinear velocity, linearity of movement and head beat frequency, and in vitro fertilizing capacity with comparable degree of efficacy. It is concluded that both methods are effective for the separation of spermatozoa from normospermic semen samples for use in infertility treatment.
Effects of work exposure, retirement, and smoking on bronchoalveolar lavage measurements of lung dust in Vermont granite workers.	Estimation of the exposure to respirable dust in the workplace is an important aspect of industrial hygiene. We performed bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) on 42 healthy nonindustrial control subjects and 44 workers in the Barre, Vermont granite industry to determine whether BAL materials reflected occupational exposure. The granite workers held jobs with a range of dust exposure intensities and had employment histories from 1 to 43 yr; 12 workers were retired. None of the workers had radiologic evidence of silicosis. The granite dust content of BAL materials was measured by enumerating the percentage of cells positive for particulates by polarized light microscopy, by analysis for silicon by scanning electron microscopy with energy-dispersive X-ray spectrometry, and by chemical analysis. Minerals were present in greater quantity in the BAL cells from granite workers than from nonindustrial control subjects. Polarized light microscopy was comparable in sensitivity, specificity, and overall accuracy to electron microscopy; chemical analysis was less accurate than either microscopic technique. Tobacco smoking did not interfere with the detection of the occupationally related minerals or influence the quantity of dust present. The mineral in BAL cells was partially related to the intensity of exposure within the granite industry and to the duration of employment, but there was great individual variation among subjects. Retirement led to a decrease in BAL mineral content, but substantial dust remained for many years.
The relationship of biochemical changes among bronchoalveolar lavage fluid serum and lung on dust-exposed rats]	The relationship between biochemical changes in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF), serum and the lung of different dustexposed rats was studied. Wistar rats were divided into 5 groups: 1. Xingkong chrysotile asbestos (CH-As); 2. Dust in a sieve selection workshop of Xingkong asbestos mine (Dust-Wo); 3. Silica group (SiO2); 4. Titanium dioxide (TiO2) and 5. Normal control group (Control). All the rats were killed in three months after experiment. The results showed that the level of alveolar macrophages (AM), lactic dehydrogenase (LDH) and acid phosphatase (AcP) in each group was marked by related to collagen, lung fat, ceruloplasmin (Cp) and hydroxyproline (HoP) by r and t-test. Among the LDH from BALF, culture fluid and serum, there was also a marked relationship. So the authors pointed out that the BALF especially AM and LDH test could serve as a good and valuable index for detection the condition of pneumoconiosis.
Rapid and selective characterization of influenza virus constituents in monovalent and multivalent preparations using non-porous reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography columns.	The characterization of influenza vaccine composition has been approached through a novel methodology suitable for routine analysis. It is based on a two-stage process involving an initial sample processing step followed by analysis by reversed-phase HPLC with UV detection. The sample processing involves an initial concentration step carried out in the presence of a combination of detergents and organic solvents to enhance solubilization and ultimately to provide adequate detection. Conditions that provided fast, reproducible and selective separations of vaccine constituents were investigated by reversed-phase HPLC. The use of non-porous silica stationary phases was found to minimize carry-over and non-specific adsorption observed with conventional columns. An evaluation of separation parameters, including mobile phase composition and column temperature, allowed optimization of the selectivity of the method. The optimized method was suitable for the characterization of processed monovalent preparations (containing influenza virus constituents from a single strain). In addition, it allowed the simultaneous detection of the three influenza subtypes in trivalent vaccines in a single analysis. Several influenza constituents were detected including nucleoprotein, the highly hydrophobic matrix protein and the primary surface antigen, haemagglutinin (HA).
Entrapment of horseradish peroxidase in sugar-modified silica monoliths: toward the development of a biocatalytic sensor.	A miniaturized HRP-entrapped bioreactor was prepared by a one-step enzyme immobilization method using a biocompatible sol-gel processing method employing either diglycerylsilane (DGS) or sodium silicate (SS) as precursors and a covalently tethered sugar, N-(3-triethoxysilylpropyl)gluconamide (GLS) as a silica modifier. Factors such as leaching, catalytic efficiency and long-term stability were examined to assess the role of the precursor and modifier in influencing enzyme performance. The results showed that sodium silicate derived materials modified with covalently bound sugars at a level of 10 mol% were optically transparent and provided the highest catalytic turnover rate for entrapped HRP. The stability and reusability of the entrapped HRP was found to be satisfactory for at least 1 month in the GLS-doped SS materials, and the entrapped HRP was able to respond linearly to the presence of peroxide over the concentration range of 0-750 microM with a detection limit of 6 microM, demonstrating the potential of this material for the development of a reusable optical biosensor.
Development and validation of a capillary electrophoresis method for the determination of sulfate in effervescent tablets.	A suitable capillary electrophoresis (CE) method was developed and validated for sulfate anion determination in effervescent tablets of Digedryl. The large excess of other ions in the matrix (i.e. excipients) constituted the main difficulty of this method's development. So an original analytical procedure for both the conditioning and rinsing of the capillary was purposed including a running electrolyte constituted by boric acid 20 mM and hexamethonium dibromide 0.75 mM at pH 8.00. Separation was carried out on a 60.2 cm (50 cm to the detector) x 0.75 microm i.d. fused-silica capillary at a potential of -29 kV and 35 degrees C. Indirect UV detection was performed at a wavelength of 254 nm using a background electrolyte containing potassium chromate. Nitrate anion was used as an internal standard for quantification. This CE method was validated in terms of selectivity, linearity, accuracy and precision.
Circular dichroism spectroscopy of tertiary and quaternary conformations of human hemoglobin entrapped in wet silica gels.	The relative contributions to changes in visible and near UV circular dichroism spectra of hemoglobin of heme ligation and tertiary and quaternary conformational transitions were separated by exploiting the slowing down of structural relaxations for proteins encapsulated in wet, nanoporous silica gels. Spectral signatures, previously assumed to be characteristic of T and R quaternary states, were demonstrated to be specific to different tertiary conformations. The results support the view that ligation and allosteric effectors can modulate the structural and functional properties of hemoglobin by regulating the equilibrium between the same tertiary species within both quaternary states.
Cell-directed assembly of lipid-silica nanostructures providing extended cell viability.	Amphiphilic phospholipids were used to direct the formation of biocompatible, uniform silica nanostructures in the presence of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and bacterial cell lines. The cell surfaces organize multilayered phospholipid vesicles that interface coherently with the silica host and help relieve drying stresses that develop with conventional templates. These host structures maintain cell accessibility, addressability, and viability in the absence of buffer or an external fluidic architecture. The cell surfaces are accessible and can be used to localize added proteins, plasmids, and nanocrystals. Prolonged cell viability combined with reporter protein expression enabled stand-alone cell-based sensing.
Microchannel device using self-spreading lipid bilayer as molecule carrier.	We propose a microchannel device that employs a surface-supported self-spreading lipid bilayer membrane as a molecule carrying medium. The device has a micropattern structure fabricated on a SiO2 surface by photolithography, into which a self-spreading lipid bilayer membrane is introduced as the carrier medium. This system corresponds to a microchannel with a single lipid bilayer membrane height of approximately 5 nm, compared with conventional micro-fluidic channels that have a section height and width of at least several microm. The device is beneficial for detecting intermolecular interactions when molecules carried by the self-spreading lipid bilayer collide with each other in the microchannel. The validity of the device was confirmed by observing the fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) between two dye molecules, coumarin and fluorescein.
Plant cell proliferation inside an inorganic host.	In recent years, much attention has been paid to plant cell culture as a tool for the production of secondary metabolites and the expression of recombinant proteins. Plant cell immobilization offers many advantages for biotechnological processes. However, the most extended matrices employed, such as calcium-alginate, cannot fully protect entrapped cells. Sol-gel chemistry of silicates has emerged as an outstanding strategy to obtain biomaterials in which living cells are truly protected. This field of research is rapidly developing and a large number of bacteria and yeast-entrapping ceramics have already been designed for different applications. But even mild thermal and chemical conditions employed in sol-gel synthesis may result harmful to cells of higher organisms. Here we present a method for the immobilization of plant cells that allows cell growth at cavities created inside a silica matrix. Plant cell proliferation was monitored for a 6-month period, at the end of which plant calli of more than 1 mm in diameter were observed inside the inorganic host. The resulting hybrid device had good mechanical stability and proved to be an effective barrier against biological contamination, suggesting that it could be employed for long-term plant cell entrapment applications.
Friction of conventional and silica-insert ceramic brackets in various bracket-wire combinations.	To compare the level of friction resistance (FR) of conventional and silica-insert ceramic brackets using various bracket-wire combinations and angulations.
Isolation and characterization of dihydromonacolin-MV from Monascus purpureus for antioxidant properties.	The methanolic extract of Monascus purpureus cultivated by solid-state fermentation on rice showed strong 2, 2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging activity and better yield as compared to other polarity based extracted fractions. It was selected for further purification of the antioxidant. The activity-guided repeated fractionation of methanolic extract on a silica gel column chromatography yielded a compound that exhibited strong antioxidant activity. Based on the spectroscopic analysis by UV, IR, 1H NMR, 13C NMR, 2D-HSQCT NMR, and MS, the antioxidant isolated was elucidated as a derivative of dihydromonacolin-K, where the ester group is 2-methyl propionate, designated as dihydromonacolin-MV. The DPPH radical was significantly scavenged by the dihydromonacolin-MV (IC50 20+/-1 microg ml-1). The dihydromonacolin-MV showed strong inhibition of lipid peroxidation in a liposome model with an IC50 value of 5.71+/-0.38 microg ml-1 and superoxide radical scavenging activity with an IC50 value of 163.97+/-2.68 microg ml-1.
Basidiomycete cultures on perlite survive successfully repeated freezing and thawing in cryovials without subculturing.	Mycelial basidiomycete cultures on perlite in cryovials survived successfully three successive cycles of freezing, storage in liquid nitrogen (LN) and thawing without noticeable changes. This indicates that using perlite as a carrier for cryopreservation could in most cases overcome difficulties caused by interrupted supply of LN or electric power during the storage. Cultures on perlite can also be reused for successive inoculations.
A mesoporous pattern created by nature in spicules from Thetya aurantium sponge.	Siliceous or carbonate spicules provide support and defense to marine sponges. The inorganic envelope usually embodies a protein core. Our SAXS study of the siliceous spicules from the demosponge Thetya aurantium proves the very ordered structure assumed by the protein core inside the spicules. Indeed, not only the very sharp diffraction spots already found in previous studies on spicules from different sponges are confirmed, but also the 11 sharp spots in the diffraction pattern recorded after thermal treatment at 250 degrees C can only be interpreted in terms of a natural nanocomposite mesostructure with an hexagonal lattice formed by a three-dimensional periodic arrangement of silica cages in which the protein units act as structure directing agent.
Removal of chromium(VI) from water and wastewater by using riverbed sand: kinetic and equilibrium studies.	Cr(VI) is a priority pollutant and has been documented to be harmful to fauna, flora and human beings and chromium containing water and wastewater are hazardous. Removal of Cr(VI) by adsorption on a non-toxic natural substance, riverbed sand has been investigated. A maximum removal of 74.3% was noted at 0.50 x 10(-4)M concentration of Cr(VI) in solution. Kinetic and equilibrium studies of Cr(VI) removal have been carried out. Chemical analysis of the adsorbent revealed SiO2 to be its major component. Kinetic data of adsorption was fitted by Lagergreen's model and k(ad), the rate constant of adsorption, was found be maximum 2.69 x 10(-2)min(-1) at 25 degrees C with minimum at 35 degrees C. Values of coefficients of intra-particle diffusion and mass transfer have been determined at different values of temperature. Langmuir's model has been used for equilibrium studies and the constants have been calculated. The studies conducted show the process of Cr(VI) removal to be exothermic in nature.
Efficient isolation of anthraquinone-derivatives from Trichoderma harzianum ETS 323.	Anthraquinone-derivatives, chrysophanol and pachybasin, were purified by a silica column chromatography with two different solvent systems from Trichoderma harzianum ETS 323. The fungus was incubated in sugarcane bagasse solid medium at room temperature without rotation. Structure of chrysophanol was solved by X-ray diffraction and pachybasin by NMR spectra. About 233+/-13 mg of pure chrysophanol and 773+/-40 mg of pure pachybasin were recovered per kg of solid cultural medium, with yields 1.7+/-0.2% and 5.6+/-0.5%, respectively.
Improvement of yeast biochip sensitivity using multilayer inorganic sol-gel substrates.	Today, microarray fluorescence detection is still limited because a great proportion of hybrids remain undetectable. In this paper we describe sol-gel optical multilayers (stacks of low- and high-index layers) deposited on glass slides which increase the fluorescence of DNA microarrays and favour the detection of fluorescent targets. An alternative to the expensive and time-consuming physical vapour deposition technology is proposed. It is a low-cost sol-gel coating of glass slides, each layer being made by "dipping" (alternatively in SiO2 or TiO2 solutions), "draining and drying". After the selection of the best surface layer of the substrates, the multilayer mirrors modelled for one (Cy3) or two (Cy3 and Cy5) fluorophores are spotted with a series of Yeast probes and compared to similar microarrays on standard glass slides through hybridisation experiments. The fluorescence images of the mirrors show increased signals for all the probes. The enhancement factors determined for Cy3 and for Cy3/Cy5 mirrors (10-12 and 4-5, respectively) are consistent with the initial modelling. This allows the assessment of the basal expression levels of Yeast low-expressed genes. Moreover, these substrates show a noticeable increase in sensitivity for induction/repression ratio measurements in differential gene expression experiments. So, they could be considered as promising tools for the analysis of small biological samples.
Treatment of turkey processing wastewater with sand filtration.	This research investigated the feasibility of coarse/fine sand filtration for removing organic materials from turkey processing wastewater. Sand filtration was tested with three organic and hydraulic loadings. Six two-layer sand bioreactors were in three groups, each with 5 cm layer of pea gravel at the bottom to support layers of fine sand (46 cm) and coarse sand (15 cm) to a height of 66 cm. The bioreactors were inoculated with a mixture of 20% (vol/vol) of wastewater lagoon sludge, 40% (vol/vol) of turkey processing wastewater, and 40% (vol/vol) of BOD(5) dilution water before starting the column operation with turkey processing wastewater. The wastewater contained 1270+/-730 mg COD/L and was applied to each sand bioreactor at hydraulic loading rates of <or= 264, 132 and 66 L/m(2)/day. Each group comprised duplicate columns with the identical hydraulic loading. A commercially available detergent, Ivory, was added to the wastewater at 0.04% (wt/vol). Maximum treatment efficiencies were reached within a week. The removal of TOC and BOD(5) was >94% during 80 days of column operation at low and medium hydraulic loading rates (132 L/m(2)/day). The removal at the highest hydraulic loading rate (264 L/m(2)/day) declined after the appearance of a black zone in the top layer of fine sand on day 30 for one reactor and day 50 for the other. The sand filtration in this study represents a feasible treatment for turkey processing wastewater and its efficiency and the life span of the process are associated with the extent of hydraulic loading of the sand bioreactors.
Diffusion tests of mercury through concrete, bentonite-enhanced sand and sand.	The transport by diffusion of Hg(II) and Hg(0) through a barrier of concrete or bentonite-enhanced sand was examined under aerobic conditions. Sand was used as a reference system parallel to the two systems. Speciation of mercury was performed with a purge and trap method, where dissolved Hg(0) was purged with nitrogen gas from the sample, through a trap for volatile oxidized mercury species and finally trapped in an oxidative solution. The apparent diffusion coefficient (from Fick's second law of diffusion) for oxidized mercury was 1 x 10(-14)m(2)/s in Standard Portland concrete and 4 x 10(-13)m(2)/s in quartz sand. The diffusion of Hg(0) seemed to be faster than for Hg(II), Hg(0) was however oxidized to Hg(II) under aerobic conditions, and after 45 months only 1-10% of the total mercury concentration was Hg(0).
Quantitative evaluation of bacteria released by bathers in a marine water.	Enterococci, a common fecal indicator, and Staphylococcus aureus, a common skin pathogen, can be shed by bathers affecting the quality of recreational waters and resulting in possible human health impacts. Due to limited information available concerning human shedding of these microbes, this study focused on estimating the amounts of enterococci and S. aureus shed by bathers directly off their skin and indirectly via sand adhered to skin. Two sets of experiments were conducted at a marine beach located in Miami-Dade County, Florida. The first study, referred to as the "large pool" study, involved 10 volunteers who immersed their bodies in 4700L during four 15min cycles with exposure to beach sand in cycles 3 and 4. The "small pool" study involved 10 volunteers who were exposed to beach sand for 30min before they individually entered a small tub. After each individual was rinsed with off-shore marine water, sand and rinse water were collected and analyzed for enterococci. Results from the "large pool" study showed that bathers shed concentrations of enterococci and S. aureus on the order of 6x10(5) and 6x10(6) colony forming units (CFU) per person in the first 15min exposure period, respectively. Significant reductions in the bacteria shed per bather (50% reductions for S. aureus and 40% for enterococci) were observed in the subsequent bathing cycles. The "small pool" study results indicated that the enterococci contribution from sand adhered to skin was small (about 2% of the total) in comparison with the amount shed directly from the bodies of the volunteers. Results indicated that bathers transport significant amounts of enterococci and S. aureus to the water column, and thus human microbial bathing load should be considered as a non-point source when designing recreational water quality models.
Rapid high-yield mRNA extraction for reverse-transcription PCR.	Reverse-transcription PCR (RT-PCR) is the gold standard for mRNA quantification. Efficient, rapid, and high-throughput mRNA extraction is a prerequisite to ensure PCR sensitivity and precision, particularly for quantification of low-abundance mRNAs, and for large numbers of samples. Many mRNA extraction methods entail meticulous handling of individual samples, and are not well suited for large sample numbers. To achieve simple separation of mRNA binding matrix and the medium from which mRNA is to be isolated, oligo (dT)(20)-coated silica beads were used. Simple centrifugation and decanting steps can be used throughout the extraction procedure to separate supernatant fluids from the silica beads. DNase treatment reduced clumping of sedimented beads, thus facilitating bead resuspension and avoiding repeated agitation. DNase treatment also significantly reduced contaminating DNA, increased mRNA purity, and enhanced mRNA PCR readout by approximately 5-fold. The number of target transcripts per sample aliquot was higher in DNase-treated mRNA than in non-treated mRNA or in total nucleic acids. Thus, use of DNase-treated mRNA increased sensitivity of detection and quantification of low-copy transcripts. In conclusion, we describe here a simple, rapid, and cost-effective method that facilitates convenient extraction of high-quality mRNA by minimizing cumbersome mechanical disruption and pipetting steps.
Fate of sulfonamides, macrolides, and trimethoprim in different wastewater treatment technologies.	The elimination of sulfonamides, macrolides and trimethoprim from raw wastewater was investigated in several municipal wastewater treatment plants. Primary treatment provided no significant elimination for the investigated substances. Similar eliminations were observed in the secondary treatment of two conventional activated sludge (CAS) systems and a fixed-bed reactor (FBR). Sulfamethoxazole, including the fraction present as N4-acetyl-sulfamethoxazole, was eliminated by approximately 60% in comparison to about 80% in a membrane bioreactor (MBR) independently of the solid retention time (SRT), indicating a positive correlation of the observed elimination to the organic substrate concentration. The elimination for macrolides and trimethoprim varied significantly between the different sampling campaigns in the two CAS systems and in the FBR. In the MBR, these analytes were eliminated up to 50% at SRT of 16+/-2 and 33+/-3 d. Trimethoprim, clarithromycin and dehydro-erythromycin showed a higher elimination of up to 90% at a SRT of 60-80 d indicating a correlation with reduced substrate loading (SL). Together with the high SRT, the SL may lead to an increased biodiversity of the active biomass, resulting in a broader range of degradation pathways available. Two investigated sand filters showed different elimination behavior. One led to a significant elimination of most macrolides (17-23%) and trimethoprim (74+/-14%), while no elimination was observed in the other sand filter investigated.
A chip off the old block!	A 35 year old male presented 9 months after sustaining a penetrating injury to the neck with a false aneurysm of the common carotid artery (CCA). At exploration, a 5mm piece of granite was embedded in the posterior wall of the CCA with overlying endothelialisation. He was treated with segmental resection and an interposition vein graft. Apart from the risk of foreign body embolisation at the time of the original presentation, it seems remarkable that the patient did not suffer a stroke due to embolism of thrombus that one would normally have expected to form on the highly thrombogenic stone surface.
Total copper content and its distribution in acid vineyards soils developed from granitic rocks.	Total and extractable (5 extractants) Cu concentrations were determined in thirteen acid vineyards soils. Mean total copper concentration was 259 mg kg(-1) and most of the soil samples (87%) were above the upper limit allowed by the European Union for this element in soils. The largest Cu fraction was found to be that bound to soil organic matter, which accounted for 49% of the total Cu. None of the Cu fractions showed significant differences with depth. Nevertheless, bioavailable Cu (extracted in Na(2)-EDTA) was found to show a strong correlation with Cu bound to soil organic matter, which may indicate that Na(2)-EDTA is able to extract part of the organically bound Cu, resulting in an overestimation of bioavailable Cu. However, practices associated to soil use change and management affecting the stability of Cu organic complexes could induce an increase in bioavailable Cu levels in these soils.
Formation and dielectric properties of polyelectrolyte multilayers studied by a silicon-on-insulator based thin film resistor.	The formation of polyelectrolyte multilayers (PEMs) is investigated using a silicon-on-insulator based thin film resistor which is sensitive to variations of the surface potential. The buildup of the PEMs at the silicon oxide surface of the device can be observed in real time as defined potential shifts. The influence of polymer charge density is studied using the strong polyanion poly(styrene sulfonate), PSS, combined with the statistical copolymer poly(diallyl-dimethyl-ammoniumchloride-stat-N-methyl-N-vinylacetamide), P(DADMAC-stat-NMVA), at various degrees of charge (DC). The multilayer formation stops after a few deposition steps for a DC below 75%. We show that the threshold of surface charge compensation corresponds to the threshold of multilayer formation. However, no reversion of the preceding surface charge was observed. Screening of polyelectrolyte charges by mobile ions within the polymer film leads to a decrease of the potential shifts with the number of layers deposited. This decrease is much slower for PEMs consisting of P(DADMAC-stat-NMVA) and PSS as compared to PEMs consisting of poly(allylamine-hydrochloride), PAH, and PSS. From this, significant differences in the dielectric constants of the polyelectrolyte films and in the concentration of mobile ions within the films can be derived.
A comparison of frontal and nonfrontal methods for determining solid-liquid adsorption isotherms using inverse liquid chromatography.	Inverse liquid chromatography (ILC) has been used to determine experimental isotherms for the equilibrium adsorption of cyclohexanone onto a silica (61.8 m(2)/g) from hexane using the peak maximum (PM), elution by characteristic point (ECP), frontal analysis (FA), and frontal analysis by characteristic point (FACP) methods. Isotherms obtained using these four approaches gave good internal agreement, as well as being in good agreement with classically determined isotherms. Columns were successfully packed using a dry powder packing method with 9 microm diameter silica particles, and excellent intercolumn and instrument to instrument reproducibility was obtained for PM isotherms. The theoretical background to the PM, ECP, FA, and FACP methods, as well as the practical facets of isotherm determination using these methods, is outlined in this work.
Trapping hemoglobin in rigid matrices: fine tuning of oxygen binding properties by modulation of encapsulation protocols.	Encapsulation of hemoglobin in a biocompatible matrix is a potential strategy for obtaining blood substitutes. Such a system would retain most of the immunogenic and functional properties of the physiologically relevant oxygen carrier but would prevent protein extravasation and dimer/dimer dissociation. We applied this approach by entrapping hemoglobin in wet nanoporous silica gel, in the presence and absence of allosteric effectors. Silica gels, although not suitable for intravenous perfusion, are inert and optically transparent, thus allowing a full characterization of the functional and structural properties of encapsulated hemoglobin by spectroscopic techniques. Results indicate that hemoglobin molecules, entrapped using different protocols, exhibit an oxygen affinity that can be modulated between 12 and 140 torr. This tunability could be exploited to meet distinct clinical needs.
Assessment of reclaimed wastewater irrigation impacts on water quality, soil, and rice cultivation in paddy fields.	The objective of this research was to monitor and assess the impact of reclaimed wastewater irrigation on water quality, soil, and rice cultivation by comparing the effects of various wastewater treatment levels on the growth and yield of rice. A randomized complete block design was used for the application methods of the wastewater effluents to paddy rice, with five treatments and six replications. The treatments were: control with groundwater irrigation (GW); irrigation with polluted water form a nearby stream (SW); and three treatments of reclaimed wastewater irrigation at different treatment levels. The three levels of wastewater treatments included wastewater effluents: (i) directly from the wastewater plant (WW); (ii) after passing through a sand filter (WSF); and (iii) after passing a sand filter followed by an ultraviolet treatment (WSFUV). Each plot was 4 x 4 m and was planted with rice (Oryza sativa L.) in 2002 and 2003. The results indicated that irrigation of rice with reclaimed municipal wastewater caused no adverse effects on the growth and yield of rice. The chemical compositions of the rice from all plots were within the normal ranges of brown rice quality in Korea. No adverse effects were observed on chemical concentrations including the heavy metals Cu, As, Cd, Zn, Hg, and Pb, in either the brown rice or the field. The results showed that treated municipal wastewater can be safely used as an alternative water source for the irrigation of rice, although continued monitoring will be needed to determine the long-term effects with regard to soil contamination and other potential health concerns.
Electrophoretic separation of environmentally important phenolic compounds using montomorillonite-coated fused-silica capillaries.	This paper reports a simple procedure for coating fused-silica capillaries with poly(diallyldimethyl ammonium chloride) and montmorillonite. The coated capillaries were characterized by performing EOF measurements as a function of buffer pH, number of layers of coating, and number of runs (stability). The coated capillaries showed a highly stable mu(EOF) (run-to-run RSD less than 1.5%, n = 20), allowing continuous use for several days without conditioning. The coated capillaries were then used for the effective separation of nine environmentally important phenolic compounds showing a significant improvement in the resolution, when compared to bare fused-silica capillaries. The EOF of the coated capillaries was constant in alkaline solutions (pH > or = 7), allowing the optimization of the separation conditions of phenolic compounds without significantly affecting the mu(EOF).
Environmental exposure assessment of ethinyl estradiol (EE) from a combined hormonal vaginal contraceptive ring after disposal; leaching from landfills.	In this study an environmental exposure assessment and experiments were carried out to identify the leaching potential of ethinyl estradiol (EE) present in a vaginal contraceptive (NuvaRing) when disposed of in landfills. Landfill material and a sandy soil were used to investigate the mobility of EE. Log K(oc) values determined in the range of 3 to 4 indicate that EE does not have a high mobility in landfills and soils. Column experiments were used to estimate that it takes approximately 40 years before EE leaches from a column of 1 m of landfill material or sandy soil. This column experiment, which was performed with an EE concentration based on worst-case assumptions, demonstrates that the emission of EE from landfills is negligible. Sandy soils below landfills also act as a strong sorbent of EE, thereby further reducing the potential for groundwater contamination.
Effect of bovine manure on fecal coliform attachment to soil and soil particles of different sizes.	Manure-borne bacteria can be transported in runoff as free cells, cells attached to soil particles, and cells attached to manure particles. The objectives of this work were to compare the attachment of fecal coliforms (FC) to different soils and soil fractions and to assess the effect of bovine manure on FC attachment to soil and soil fractions. Three sand fractions of different sizes, the silt fraction, and the clay fraction of loam and sandy clay loam soils were separated and used along with soil samples in batch attachment experiments with water-FC suspensions and water-manure-FC suspensions. In the absence of manure colloids, bacterial attachment to soil, silt, and clay particles was much higher than the attachment to sand particles having no organic coating. The attachment to the coated sand particles was similar to the attachment to silt and clay. Manure colloids in suspensions decreased bacterial attachment to soils, clay and silt fractions, and coated sand fractions, but did not decrease the attachment to sand fractions without the coating. The low attachment of bacteria to silt and clay particles in the presence of manure colloids may cause predominantly free-cell transport of manure-borne FC in runoff.
Isolation, propagation and characterization of primary tubule cell culture from human kidney.	Proximal tubule cells (PTC) are the major cell type in the cortical tubulointerstitium. Because PTC play a central role in tubulointerstitial pathophysiology, it is essential to prepare pure PTC from kidney tissue to explore the mechanisms of tubulointerstitial pathology. The authors have successfully refined and characterized primary cultures of human PTC using Percoll density gradient centrifugation as a key PTC enrichment step. The cells obtained by this method retain morphological and functional properties of PTC and are minimally contaminated by other renal cells. In particular, the primary isolates have characteristics of epithelial cells with uniform polarized morphology, tight junction and well-formed apical microvilli. Cytokeratin is uniformly and strongly expressed in the isolates. Brush border enzyme activities and PTC transport properties are retained in the isolates. This method therefore provides an excellent in vitro model for the physiologic study of the human proximal tubule.
Spatial distribution and physiological state of bacteria in a sand column experiment during the biodegradation of toluene.	Toxic organic contaminants frequently serve as growth substrates for bacteria. However, long-term exposure to the organic contaminants can result in significant stress or "injury" to bacterial cells such that bacteria may lose, either temporarily or permanently, their capacity to degrade a specific toxic organic contaminant. In order to understand the relationship between biodegradability and physiological conditions of bacteria after a prolonged exposure to a contaminant, biomass samples collected from a sand column experiment, with toluene as the carbon source, were analyzed for bacterial physiology and spatial population distribution in the porous media. The column was seeded with three bacterial isolates that perform aerobic (Pseudomonas putida F1), denitrifying (Thauera aromatica T1), and facultative (Ralstonia pickettii PKO1) degradation of toluene were analyzed. Total, viable but not culturable with toluene, and toluene-culturable cells were enumerated using 4'6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) staining and plate counting methods. Comparison of three types of cell counts showed that toluene-culturable cells were less than 40% of the total cell numbers. However, viable colonies transferred to a toluene media after cultivation on rich media regained their ability to degrade toluene. This implies that the temporary loss of their toluene degradation capacity is either due to an intracellular accumulation of degradation by-products, which have to be consumed in order for the cells to degrade toluene, or it is possible that cells have shifted to degrade other substrates such as toluene degradation intermediates or organic materials resulting from cell turnover. Comparison of cell counts with toluene concentration showed no exponential increase in total and viable cell numbers, as reported for flat bed biofilm reactor experiments. The overall fraction of toluene-culturable cells was highest at the highest toluene concentration near the column inlet, which indicates that the observed temporary loss of toluene culturability was not solely caused by a direct toxic effect from the long-term exposure to toluene.
Removal and fate of Cryptosporidium parvum, Clostridium perfringens and small-sized centric diatoms (Stephanodiscus hantzschii) in slow sand filters.	The decimal elimination capacity (DEC) of slow sand filtration (SSF) for Cryptosporidium parvum was assessed to enable quantitative microbial risk analysis of a drinking water production plant. A mature pilot plant filter of 2.56m(2) was loaded with C. parvum oocysts and two other persistent organisms as potential surrogates; spores of Clostridium perfringens (SCP) and the small-sized (4-7microm) centric diatom (SSCD) Stephanodiscus hantzschii. Highly persistent micro-organisms that are retained in slow sand filters are expected to accumulate and eventually break through the filter bed. To investigate this phenomenon, a dosing period of 100 days was applied with an extended filtrate monitoring period of 150 days using large-volume sampling. Based on the breakthrough curves the DEC of the filter bed for oocysts was high and calculated to be 4.7log. During the extended filtrate monitoring period the spatial distribution of the retained organisms in the filter bed was determined. These data showed little risk of accumulation of oocysts in mature filters most likely due to predation by zooplankton. The DEC for the two surrogates, SCP and SSCD, was 3.6 and 1.8log, respectively. On basis of differences in transport behaviour, but mainly because of the high persistence compared to the persistence of oocysts, it was concluded that both spores of sulphite-reducing clostridia (incl. SCP) and SSCD are unsuited for use as surrogates for oocyst removal by slow sand filters. Further research is necessary to elucidate the role of predation in Cryptosporidium removal and the fate of consumed oocysts.
Effects of egg-bar shoes on the 3-dimensional kinematics of the distal forelimb in horses walking on a sand track.	Understanding of the biomechanical effects of egg-bar shoes remains incomplete because kinematic studies are usually performed on hard tracks and with skin markers that do not measure the actual 3-dimensional (3D) movements of the 3 digital joints.
Enhancement of proteolysis through the silica-gel-derived microfluidic reactor.	An on-chip enzymatic reactor providing rapid protein digestion is presented. Trypsin-embedding stationary phase within the microchannel has been prepared by the sol-gel method. Such a microfluidic reactor has been used for low-level protein digestion at 16 fmol per analysis. The analytical potential of the microreactor combined with the strong cation exchange and RPLC ESI-MS/MS for the identification of real samples from the cytoplasma of the human liver tissue has been demonstrated.
Silica colloidal crystals for enhanced fluorescence detection in microarrays.	Silica colloidal crystals were investigated for their potential as high surface area materials to enhance sensitivity over planar surfaces for microarrays using fluorescence detection. A relation was derived showing how crystal thickness and transmission, as well as colloid size, combine to determine the optically accessible surface area for enhancing sensitivity. Experimentally, crystals of 250-nm colloids were prepared with thicknesses determined by SEM to be 1.6, 4.2, and 11.0 microm. The material was sintered at 1000 degrees C to make it durable without affecting the crystalline structure, as confirmed by SEM. UV/visible spectrometry showed the depth of penetration (1/e) to be 8.4 microm at 488 nm for these materials. Fluorescein-labeled streptavidin and biotin were used as a model ligand-receptor pair. For the fluorescence measurements, biotin was covalently bonded to the silica surfaces, and the fluorescence was detected from the captured streptavidin-fluorescein. The observed fluorescence enhancement agreed well with the theory developed here. Compared to a planar surface, the colloidal crystal of 11.0 microm in thickness enhanced the fluorescence by nearly a factor of 80, with only a 0.3% increase in fluorescence background.
Top-down approaches to the formation of silica nanoparticle patterns.	This article reports a simple, versatile approach to the fabrication of lithographically defined mesoscopic colloidal silica nanoparticle patterns over large areas using spin-coating, interferometric lithography, and reactive-ion etching. One-dimensional nanoparticle films (bands) and 2D discs, diamonds, and holes with sub-micrometer periodicity, high quality, and excellent uniformity were successfully fabricated over large areas. The well-defined shape and period of the patterned nanoparticle film were controlled in the interferometric lithography step, while the thickness of nanoparticle film was easily tuned in the spin-coating step. This approach can extend to other deposition methods such as convective self-assembly, electrostatic self-assembly, and other materials such as metallic and ferromagnetic nanoparticles. We have also been able to generate sparse, random, isolated particle patterns, using a combination of interferometric lithography and layer-by-layer deposition as an extension of this approach to another deposition method, and to generate disc nanoparticle patterns using colloidal lithography as an extension of this approach to another lithography technique. These patterned films will find important applications in the fields of material growth, biosensors, and catalysis, as well as serving as building blocks for further fabrication.
Characterization of fractal particles using acoustics, electroacoustics, light scattering, image analysis, and conductivity.	Fractals are aggregates of primary particles organized with a certain symmetry defined essentially by one parameter-a fractal dimension. We have developed a model for the interpretation of acoustic data with respect to particle structure in aggregated fractal particles. We apply this model to the characterization of various properties of a fumed silica, being but one example of a fractal structure. Importantly, our model assumes that there is no liquid flow within the aggregates (no advection). For fractal dimensions of less than 2.5, we find that the size and density of aggregates, computed from the measured acoustic attenuation spectra, are quite independent of the assumed fractal dimension. This aggregate size agrees well with light-scattering measurements. We applied this model to the interpretation of electroacoustic data as well. A combination of electroacoustic and conductivity measurements yields sufficient data for comparing the fractal model of the particle organization with a simple model of the separate primary particles. Conductivity measurements provide information on particle surface conductivity reflected in terms of the Dukhin number (Du). Supporting information for the zeta potential and Du can also be provided by electroacoustic measurements assuming thin double-layer theory. In comparing values of Du from these two measurements, we find that the model of separate solid particles provides much more consistent results than a fractal model with zero advection. To explain this, we first need to explain an apparent contradiction in the acoustic and electroacoustic data for porous particles. Although not important for interpreting acoustic data, advection within the aggregate does turn out to be essential for interpreting electrokinetic and electroacoustic phenomena in dispersions of porous particles.
Electrochemistry and electrocatalytic properties of hemoglobin in layer-by-layer films of SiO2 with vapor-surface sol-gel deposition.	In this paper, layer-by-layer {Hb/SiO2}n films assembled by alternate adsorption of positively charged hemoglobin (Hb) and vapor-surface sol-gel deposition of silica at 50 degrees C onto a glassy carbon electrode were reported. The result films were characterized with cyclic voltametery, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy, UV-vis spectroscopy, and SEM, and the direct electrochemical and electrocatalytic properties of Hb in these layer-by-layer films were investigated. A pair of well-defined quasi-reversible cyclic voltammetric peaks were observed, and the formal potential of the heme FeIII/FeII redox couple was found to be -0.330 V(vs SCE). The electron-transfer behavior of Hb in {Hb/SiO2}n films was dependent on the vapor temperature, the number of layers, and the pH of the Hb solution, based on which a set of optimized conditions for film fabrication was inferred. The hemoglobin in{Hb/SiO2}n films displayed good electrocatalytic activity to the reduction of hydrogen peroxide, and H2O2 had linear current response from 1.0 x 10(-6) to 2.0 x 10(-4) M with a detection limit of 5.0 x 10(-7) M (S/N = 3). The apparent heterogeneous electron-transfer rate constant (ks) was 1.02 +/- 0.03 s(-1), and the apparent Michaeli-Menten constant (Kmapp) was 0.155 mM, indicating a potential application in the third-generation biosensor.
Beach sand and sediments are temporal sinks and sources of Escherichia coli in Lake Superior.	The Duluth Boat Club (DBC) Beach, located in the Duluth-Superior harbor of Lake Superior, is frequently closed in summer due to high counts of Escherichia coli, an indicator of fecal contamination. However, the sources of bacteria contributing to beach closure are currently unknown. In this study, we investigated the potential sources of E. coli contaminating the DBC beach by using modified rep-PCR (HFERP) DNA fingerprinting. Over 3600 E. coli strains were obtained from 55 lake water, 25 sediment, and 135 sand samples taken from five transects at the DBC beach at 11 different times during the summer through fall months of 2004 and 2005. Potential sources of E. coli at this beach were determined by using a known-source DNA fingerprint library containing unique E. coli isolates from wildlife, waterfowl, and treated wastewater obtained near Duluth, MN. Amounts E. coli in the samples were enumerated by membrane filtration counting, and the presence of potentially pathogenic E. coli was determined by using multiplex PCR. E. coli counts in all samples increased during the summer and early fall (Julyto September). While E. coli in spring samples originated mainly from treated wastewater effluent, the percentage of E. coli from waterfowl increased from summer to fall. DNA fingerprint analyses indicated that some E. coli strains may be naturalized, and autochthonous members of the microbial community in the beach sand and sediments were examined. However, multiplex PCR results indicated that <1% of the E. coli strains at the DBC was potentially pathogenic. Our results also suggest that wave action may influence the early colonization and homogeneous distribution of E. coli in beach sand and the subsequent release of sand or sediment-borne E. coli into lake water. Taken together, these results indicate that sand and sediment serve as temporal sources and sinks of human and waterfowl-derived E. coli that contribute to beach closures.
Metabolism of BTEX and naphtha compounds to methane in oil sands tailings.	Naphtha, comprising low molecular weight aliphatics and aromatics (C3-C14), is used as a diluent in processing of bitumen from oil sands. A small fraction (<1%) is lost to tailings waste and incorporated into mature fine tailings (MFT). BTEX (benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, and xylenes) and whole naphtha were assessed for biodegradation under methanogenic conditions using MFT from an oil sands tailings settling basin. MFT spiked with 0.05-0.1% w/v of BTEX compounds produced up to 2.1 (+/-0.1) mmol of methane during 36 weeks of incubation. Metabolism of 0.5-1.0% w/v naphtha in MFT yielded up to 5.7 (+/-0.2) mmol of methane during 46 weeks of incubation. Gas chromatographic analyses showed that BTEX degraded in the sequence: toluene > o-xylene > m- plus p-xylene > ethylbenzene > benzene. Only 15-23% of whole naphtha, mainly n-alkanes (in the sequence: nonane > octane > heptane) and some BTEX compounds (toluene > o-xylene > m-xylene), was metabolized. Other naphtha constituents, such as iso-paraffins and naphthenes, remained unchanged during this period. These results suggest that the microbial communities in the MFT can readily utilize certain fractions of unrecovered naphtha in oil sands tailings and support methanogenesis in settling basins. Current study findings could influence extraction process, MFT management, and reclamation options.
Synthesis and characterization of a molecularly imprinted silica gel sorbent for the on-line determination of trace Sudan I in Chilli powder through high-performance liquid chromatography.	A highly selective imprinted polymer was synthesized by a surface molecular imprinting technique in combination with a sol-gel process. The imprinted polymer was evaluated by FT-IR and static and kinetic adsorption experiments. The results showed that the imprinted sorbent exhibited good recognition and selective ability, offered a faster kinetics for the adsorption and desorption of Sudan I than the non-imprinted sorbent, a saturated binding capacity (Qmax) that reached 33.47 mg g-1. The prepared sorbent was applied for the determination of trace Sudan I through on-line solid-phase coupled with high-performance liquid chromatography (SPE-HPLC). With a loading flow rate of 1.5 mL min-1 for sampling 50 mL, an enrichment factor of 1266 was achieved. The detection limit (S/N = 3) was 1.2 ng L-1, and the peak area precision (RSD) for five replicate detections of 0.01 microg L-1 Sudan I was 3.66%. The Sudan I in the chilli powder from the local market was determined at three levels (0.25, 0.5, and 1.0 ng g-1) with recoveries ranging from 80.31 to 94.02%.
Glass transitions of ordinary and heavy water within silica-gel nanopores.	The dynamic properties of water confined within nanospaces are of interest given that such water plays important roles in geological and biological systems. The enthalpy-relaxation properties of ordinary and heavy water confined within silica-gel voids of 1.1, 6, 12, and 52 nm in average diameter were examined by adiabatic calorimetry. Most of the water was found to crystallize within the pores above about 2 nm in diameter but to remain in the liquid state down to 80 K within the pores less than about 1.6 nm in diameter. Only one glass transition was observed, at T(g) = 119, 124, and 132 K for ordinary water and T(g) = 125, 130, and 139 K for heavy water, in the 6-, 12-, and 52-nm diameter pores, respectively. On the other hand, two glass transitions were observed at T(g) = 115 and 160 K for ordinary water and T(g) = 118 and 165 K for heavy water in the 1.1-nm pores. Interfacial water molecules on the pore wall, which remain in the noncrystalline state in each case, were interpreted to be responsible for the glass transitions in the region 115-139 K, and internal water molecules, surrounded only by water molecules in the liquid state, are responsible for those at 160 or 165 K in the case of the 1.1-nm pores. It is suggested that the glass transition of bulk supercooled water takes place potentially at 160 K or above due to the development of an energetically more stable hydrogen-bonding network of water molecules at low temperatures.
The potential for beach sand to serve as a reservoir for Escherichia coli and the physical influences on cell die-off.	The Escherichia coli burden at a Great Lakes urban beach was evaluated during the summer months to determine if sand served as a reservoir for E. coli, and if there was evidence of cell replication in situ. Field and laboratory studies investigated the effects of moisture, temperature and UV on E. coli densities in the sand.
Three-dimensional fluid pressure mapping in porous media using magnetic resonance imaging with gas-filled liposomes.	This paper presents and demonstrates a method for using magnetic resonance imaging to measure local pressure of a fluid saturating a porous medium. The method is tested both in a static system of packed silica gel and in saturated sintered glass cylinders experiencing fluid flow. The fluid used contains 3% gas in the form of 3-mum average diameter gas filled 1,2-distearoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (C18:0, MW: 790.16) liposomes suspended in 5% glycerol and 0.5% Methyl cellulose with water. Preliminary studies at 2.35 T demonstrate relative magnetic resonance signal changes of 20% per bar in bulk fluid for an echo time T(E)=40 ms, and 6-10% in consolidated porous media for T(E)=10 ms, over the range 0.8-1.8 bar for a spatial resolution of 0.1 mm(3) and a temporal resolution of 30 s. The stability of this solution with relation to applied pressure and methods for improving sensitivity are discussed.
Velocity autocorrelation spectra of fluid in porous media measured by the CPMG sequence and constant magnetic field gradient.	Carr-Purcell-Meiboom-Gill (CPMG) train of radiofrequency pulses applied to spins in the constant magnetic field gradient is an efficient variant of the modulated magnetic field gradient spin echo method, which provides information about molecular diffusion in the frequency domain instead of in the time domain as with the two-pulse gradient spin echo. The frequency range of this novel technique is broad enough to sample the power spectrum of displacement fluctuation in water-saturated pulverized silica (SiO2) and provides comprehensive information about the molecular restricted motion as well as about the structure of the medium.
Clathrate formation and dissociation in vapor/water/ice/hydrate systems in SBA-15, sol-gel and CPG porous media, as probed by NMR relaxation, novel protocol NMR cryoporometry, neutron scattering and ab initio quantum-mechanical molecular dynamics simulation.	The Gibbs-Thomson effect modifies the pressure and temperature at which clathrates occur, hence altering the depth at which they occur in the seabed. Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) measurements as a function of temperature are being conducted for water/ice/hydrate systems in a range of pore geometries, including templated SBA-15 silicas, controlled pore glasses and sol-gel silicas. Rotator-phase plastic ice is shown to be present in confined geometry, and bulk tetrahydrofuran hydrate is also shown to probably have a rotator phase. A novel NMR cryoporometry protocol, which probes both melting and freezing events while avoiding the usual problem of supercooling for the freezing event, has been developed. This enables a detailed probing of the system for a given pore size and geometry and the exploration of differences between hydrate formation and dissociation processes inside pores. These process differences have an important effect on the environment, as they impact on the ability of a marine hydrate system to re-form once warmed above a critical temperature. Ab initio quantum-mechanical molecular dynamics calculations are also being employed to probe the dynamics of liquids in pores at nanometric dimensions.
Robust monolithic silica-based on-chip electro-osmotic micro-pump.	A robust, compact, on-chip, electro-osmotic micro-pump (EOP) for micro-flow analysis, based on parallel, encased, 10 x 0.1 mm I.D. monolithic silica capillary columns has been developed. A 15 x 40 x 2 mm poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) chip, containing a total of nine parallel EOP systems was fabricated, allowing the use of single, double or triple monolithic columns to produce increased flow as required. The monolithic silica was compatible with both aqueous and organic solvents without swelling or shrinking problems, with the triple column EOP capable of generating flow of up to 0.6 microL min(-1) under zero pressure load and over 0.1 microL min(-1) with an applied pressure of ca. 2.4 bar using an applied voltage of just 2 kV. Current generated at the 2 kV applied voltage for a 2 mM acetate buffer solution (pH 4.5) was under 4 microA, allowing stable, bubble-free flow. The developed triple column EOP was incorporated within a micro-fluidic chip (5.0 x 2.0 x 0.4 cm) integrated with a second single 10 x 0.1 mm column EOP, for combined sample injection and simple on-chip micro-flow analysis.
Arenimonas donghaensis gen. nov., sp. nov., isolated from seashore sand.	A Gram-negative, aerobic bacterium, designated strain HO3-R19(T), which was isolated from seashore sand in Pohang city, Korea, was characterized on the basis of a polyphasic taxonomic approach. Phylogenetic analyses of 16S rRNA gene sequences revealed that strain HO3-R19(T) represents a new lineage within the Gammaproteobacteria; sequence similarities between strain HO3-R19(T) and members of other related genera were less than 93.5 %. Strain HO3-R19(T) was also distinguished from related genera based on differences in several phenotypic characteristics. Cells were straight or slightly curved rods and formed white colonies on R2A agar. The major isoprenoid quinone was ubiquinone 8 (Q-8), and predominant cellular fatty acids were iso-C(16 : 0), iso-C(15 : 0) and iso-C(17 : 1)omega9c. The DNA G+C content of strain HO3-R19(T) was 65.0 mol%. Based on physiological, biochemical and chemotaxonomic traits together with results of comparative 16S rRNA sequence analysis, strain HO3-R19(T) is considered to represent a novel species in a new genus, for which the name Arenimonas donghaensis gen. nov., sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain of Arenimonas donghaensis is HO3-R19(T) (=KACC 11381(T)=DSM 18148(T)).
Analytical approaches to characterising fish tainting potential of oil sands process waters.	A three-stage study has been carried out with rainbow trout (Oncorhyncus mykiss) to develop analytical approaches which can provide a fingerprint for tainting by oil sands chemicals from process-affected waters and natural sources. The objective was to find a simpler alternative to sensory evaluation. In the first stage, a set of seven test compounds was added to fish tissue which was analysed by headspace and solvent (dichloromethane, DCM) extraction followed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). In the second stage, fingerlings (5-20 g) were exposed for 96 hours to the test compound mixture at 1.0 and 0.5 times the estimated tainting threshold concentrations. In the final stage, fingerlings were exposed for 96 hours to an oil sands process water at 5, 10, 20 and 50% concentrations in clean water. None of the test compounds was identified in DCM extracts of tissue from exposed fish. Two long-chain aldehydes, hexadecanal and 9-octadecenal, were tentatively identified in these extracts by matching of mass spectra with library spectra.
Shear bond strength fatigue limit of rest seats made with dental restoratives.	This study compared the shear bond strength (SBS) to enamel of rest seats made with a glass-ionomer cement (Fuji IX GP Fast), a resin-modified glass-ionomer cement (Fuji II LC), and a composite resin (Z100 MP) under monotonic and cyclic loading.
Skin penetration of silicon dioxide microneedle arrays.	Out-of-plane hollow silicon dioxide microneedle arrays were fabricated and investigated to determine their efficacy for transdermal applications. The fabrication process of the SiO2 microneedles is described, and mechanical fracture forces were investigated on microneedles with different geometrical dimensions. Biomechanical characterization of the microneedles was performed to specifically test for reliable stratum corneum and skin insertion by changing the regulatory parameters such as needle width and cross-section.
Inhalational anesthetics stereochemistry: optical resolution of halothane, enflurane, and isoflurane.	Halothane (I), enflurane (II), and isoflurane (III), which are among the most important inhalation anesthetics, are currently administered as racemic mixtures. The pure enantiomers have not been described, and no analytical method for resolving the commercially available racemic mixtures has been reported. Complete optical resolution of (+/-)-I and (+/-)-III on per-n-pentylated alpha-cyclodextrin (Lipodex A) and of (+/-)-II and (+/-)-III on octakis(6-O-methyl-2,3-di-O-pentyl)-gamma-cyclodextrin capillary columns has been achieved, making rapid and convenient determination of enantiomeric ratios in samples of all three of these anesthetics possible.
Silicosis among gemstone workers in South Africa: tiger's-eye pneumoconiosis.	Six cases of silicosis in workers involved in the processing of semiprecious gem stones have been seen in our clinic since 1976. They had been employed as stone sculptors in lapidaries where they processed tiger's-eye, rose quartz, amethyst, quartz crystal, and a variety of other locally occurring semiprecious stones. In five of the cases, exposure was in small and poorly regulated lapidaries without specific dust control measures. The sixth was detected during the course of a health and hygiene survey (including dust sampling) that was conducted in one of two lapidaries still operating in our area. Progressive massive fibrosis (PMF) or accelerated silicosis was noted in four of the six cases, three of whom had progression of their disease after cessation of exposure. With the development of PMF, the initial restrictive pulmonary function abnormalities were followed by steadily worsening airflow obstruction. Lung biopsies confirmed silicosis in three cases. Tuberculosis was confirmed in two cases and suspected and treated in a third. Workmen's Compensation was awarded in five cases. The survey confirmed that in semiprecious gem stone processing, the risk of silicosis appears to be confined to stone sculptors. Tried and proven techniques of general and local exhaust ventilation combined with water or oil to control dust at source were capable of effectively reducing dust emission to acceptable levels.
Delta 5-3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase-isomerase activity in two distinct density Leydig cells from immature rats. Differences in responsiveness to human chorionic gonadotropin or 8-bromoadenosine 3',5'-monophosphate.	The present studies examined the responsiveness to human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) or 8-bromoadenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (8-Br-cAMP) of delta 5-3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase-isomerase activity of cultured immature Band 2 (low density) or Band 3 (high density) Leydig cells isolated on Percoll gradients. Enzyme activity increased in relation to the dose of hCG or 8-Br-cAMP in both bands; however, activity in Band 2 cells increased about 200% above control, while activity in Band 3 cells increased only about 30-60% above control following 6 days of treatment. Maximal responses were observed 4-6 days following exposure to hCG or 8-Br-cAMP in both bands. Because elevated 5 alpha-reductase activity prevents testosterone accumulation in immature Leydig cells, Band 2 or Band 3 cells were cultured in the presence of 4-methyl-4-aza-3-oxo-pregnan-(20S)-carboxylate, a 5 alpha-reductase inhibitor, to assess the relationship between changes in delta 5-3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase-isomerase activity and testosterone formation. Although hCG or 8-Br-cAMP-stimulated delta 5-3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase-isomerase activity began to decline by day 8 or 10 of treatment, testosterone levels progressively increased for 10 days before declining in both bands. Thus, changes in enzyme activity did not strictly correlate with testosterone synthesizing capacity of cultured Leydig cells. Enzyme activity also was measured in cells cultured with the 5 alpha-reductase inhibitor to determine whether the responsiveness of delta 5-3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase-isomerase activity of Band 2 or Band 3 cells was due, in part, to low testosterone levels. delta 5-3 beta-Hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase-isomerase activity in Band 2 or Band 3 cells cultured without or with the inhibitor was similar, suggesting that testosterone does not inhibit the enzyme in immature Leydig cells. The greater responsiveness of delta 5-3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase-isomerase activity in Band 2 cells was not due to Leydig cell replication as neither total DNA or [3H]thymidine incorporation into DNA was altered by hCG or cAMP.
Cortical alveoli of Paramecium: a vast submembranous calcium storage compartment.	The plasma membrane of Paramecium is underlain by a continuous layer of membrane vesicles known as cortical alveoli, whose function was unknown but whose organization had suggested some resemblance with muscle sarcoplasmic reticulum. The occurrence of antimonate precipitates within the alveoli first indicated to us that they may indeed correspond to a vast calcium storage site. To analyze the possible involvement of this compartment in calcium sequestration more directly, we have developed a new fractionation method, involving a Percoll gradient, that allows rapid purification of the surface layer (cortex) of Paramecium in good yield and purity and in which the alveoli retain their in vivo topological orientation. This fraction pumped calcium very actively in a closed membrane compartment, with strict dependence on ATP and Mg2+. The pumping activity was affected by anti-calmodulin drugs but no Triton-soluble calmodulin binding protein could be identified, using gel overlay procedures. The high affinity of the pump for calcium (Km = 0.5 microM) suggests that it plays an important role in the normal physiological environment of the cytosol. This may be related to at least three calcium-regulated processes that take place in the immediate vicinity of alveoli: trichocyst exocytosis, ciliary beating and cytoskeletal elements dynamics during division.
Enantiomeric analysis of phenylpropanolamine in plasma via resolution of dinitrophenylurea derivatives on a high performance liquid chromatographic chiral stationary phase.	Racemic phenylpropanolamine was resolved on a high performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) chiral stationary phase (CSP) as the 3,5-dinitrophenyl ureide derivative. The CSP was prepared by a simple in situ procedure in which (R)-(1-naphthyl)ethyl isocyanate was bound to aminopropyl silanized silica through a urea linkage. The enantiomeric ureides were prepared by a room-temperature, 60-second procedure, accomplishing simultaneous extraction and derivatization and utilizing achiral 3,5-dinitrophenyl isocyanate as reagent. Baseline resolution was readily achieved under normal phase conditions, with a separation factor (alpha) of 1.16 and a resolution factor (RS) of 2.2. Elution was complete within 10 min. A limit of detection, by UV at 235 nm, of 250 pg per isomer was established. Feasibility of the procedure for plasma determinations was demonstrated by assay of samples from a canine subject.
Interspersion of fragmented fiber's splinters into tissue during pulsed alexandrite laser lithotripsy.	Laser induced shockwave lithotripsy (LISL) on artificially inserted human renal calculi was realized in explanted pig ureters. A pulse stretched Alexandrite solid state laser was used at 750nm. Pulses of 350ns and 1 microseconds duration were transmitted through a 250 microns all silica fiber onto a stone surface, keeping the fiber tip in contact with a stone close to the ureter wall. The high power density of the 350 ns pulses lead to an optical breakdown inside the distal fiber tip causing fiber fragmentation of about 28 mm/100 pulses. Deep penetration of the fiber fragments into the ureter wall was proven histologically. Fiber fragmentation was avoided by increasing the pulse duration up to 1 microseconds. Riks for patient treatment caused by short pulse lithotripsy are discussed.
Pulmonary silicosis and glomerular nephropathy. Apropos of 1 case]	A 43-year-old stone cutter with 13 years of exposure to silica developed a pulmonary silicosis and a glomerulonephritis with moderate renal failure. Renal biopsy demonstrated in light microscopy a segmental and focal mesangial proliferation and in electron microscopy distinct alterations of the proximal tubular cells. Renal histology suggest silica may play a part in the pathogenesis of renal damage. Clinicians should therefore include silica exposure in the differential diagnosis of unexplained glomerulonephritis.
Percoll-purified and photosynthetically active chloroplasts from Arabidopsis thaliana leaves.	The availability of the complete genome sequence of Arabidopsis thaliana and of large collections of insertion mutants paved the way for systematic studies of gene functions in this organism, thus requiring adapting biochemical and physiological tools to this model plant. For physiological analysis of photosynthesis, methods combining high level of chloroplast purity and preservation of the photosynthetic activity were missing. Here, we describe a rapid method (less than 1h) to obtain Percoll-purified and photosynthetically active chloroplasts from Arabidopsis leaves retaining almost 90% of the Vmax of photosynthesis measured in the starting leaves from plants grown under a light intensity of 150mumolphotonm(-2)s(-1) and 80% of their initial photosynthetic rate after 3h of storage.
Perchlorate production by ozone oxidation of chloride in aqueous and dry systems.	Overwhelming evidence now exists that perchlorate is produced through natural processes and can be ubiquitously found at environmentally relevant concentrations in arid and semi-arid locations. A number of potential production mechanisms have been hypothesized and ClO(4)(-) production by ozone oxidation of surface bound Cl(-) was demonstrated. However, no information concerning the impact of concentration, final reaction products distribution, impact of reaction phase, or oxidation of important oxychlorine intermediates has been reported. Using IC-MS-MS analysis and replicate oxidation experiments, we show that exposing aqueous solutions or Cl(-) coated sand or glass surfaces to O(3) (0.96%) generated ClO(4)(-) with molar yields of 0.007 and 0.01% for aqueous Cl(-) solutions and 0.025 and 0.42% for Cl(-) coated sand and glass, respectively. Aqueous solutions of Cl(-) produced less ClO(4)(-) than Cl(-) coated sand or glass as well as a higher ratio of ClO(3)(-) to ClO(4)(-). Reduction of the initial Cl(-) mass resulted in substantially higher molar yields of ClO(4)(-) and ClO(3)(-). In addition, alkaline absorbers that captured gaseous products contained substantial quantities of Cl(-), ClO(3)(-), and ClO(4)(-). Solutions of possible oxychlorine intermediates (OCl(-) and ClO(3)(-)) exposed to O(3) produced only scant amounts of ClO(4)(-) while a ClO(2)(-) solution exposed to O(3) produced substantial molar yields of ClO(4)(-) (4% molar yield). Scanning electron microscopy coupled with energy energy-dispersive X-ray analysis demonstrated a significant loss of Cl(-) and an increase in oxygen on the Cl(-) coated silica sand exposed to O(3). While the experimental conditions are not reflective of natural conditions this work clearly demonstrates the relative potential of Cl(-) precursors in perchlorate production and the likely importance of dry aerosol oxidation over solution phase reactions. It also suggests that ClO(2)(-) may be a key intermediate while ClO(3)(-) and OCl(-) are unlikely to play a significant role.
Effect of pH and addition of salt on the adsorption behavior of lysozyme on gold, silica, and titania surfaces observed by quartz crystal microbalance with dissipation monitoring.	The adsorption behaviors of lysozyme on dentally related Au, SiO2, and TiO2 surfaces were investigated by a quartz crystal microbalance with dissipation monitoring (QCM-D) method. Frequency shifts indicated that while lysozyme (pI 11) was fairly adsorbed on the SiO2 (pI 1.9) surface at both pH 3 and 7, it was adsorbed on TiO2 (pI 6.3) surface only at pH 7. However, adsorption was disturbed by 50 mM NaCl. These results strongly suggested an electrostatic nature of the adsorption behavior. Though a large-scale adsorption of the lysozyme on Au sensor was pH-insensitive, softness of the adlayer as seen from the dissipation profile was pH-dependent, indicating an interaction of another type. With all the surfaces, the small dissipation change indicated a stiff lysozyme adlayer. Results of this study revealed that the controlled electrostatic interaction between the material surface and lysozyme might be a useful method for imparting antibacterial property to the dental materials.
Effect of concomitant substances and addition order on the adsorption of Tween 80 on sand]	Adsorption of Tween 80 on sand was investigated, and the effect of inorganic salts (CaCl2), anionic surfactant (SDS) and lignosulphonates (sodium lignosulphonate or ammonium lignosulphonate) on the adsorption of Tween 80 on sand were evaluated at 25 degrees C. The results show that saturated adsorption amount of Tween 80 on sand enhance when CaCl2 or SDS is added into flushing solution of Tween 80. And the adsorption of Tween 80 on sand increase with the increase of molar fraction of CaCl2 or SDS in mixed flushing solution. And adsorption amount of Tween 80 on sand also enhance when SDS is added into sand firstly. The effects of mixing ratios and addition order of lignosulphonates on adsorption of Tween 80 were considered. The results show that with the increase of molar fraction of lignosulphonates in mixing flushing solution, adsorption amount of Tween 80 on sand decrease. The adsorption amount of Tween 80 reduce 20%-75% due to the exist of ammonium lignosulphonate is superior to sodium lignosulphonate (10%-60%) when mix the lignosulphonates-Tween 80 at the total mass ratios of 1:10, while the adsorption amount of Tween 80 reduce 70%-90% at the total mass ratios of 1:2. Lignosulphonates added into sand firstly is more efficient than that together. Therefore,use of lignosulphonates as a preflush can reduce the adsorption of surfactants on sand and is a better method to applied in in situ flushing.
Production of aflatoxin B1 and G1 by Aspergillus parasiticus on silica gels.	Silica gels were prepared by acidifying alkaline silicate solutions with phosphoric or tartaric acid. Various combinations of glucose, sucrose, yeast extract, and salts were included in the gels an nutrients. Maximum production of aflatoxins B1 and G1 occurred when silica gel (0.4 to 0.5 cm deep in a petri dish) containing 20% sucrose and 2% yeast extract, and gelled with tartaric acid, was inoculated with approximately 120 to 12000 spores of Aspergillus parasiticus per plate; and plates were incubated at 28 degrees C for 10 days.
Detection of antibiotic resistant bacteria inhabiting the sand of non-recreational marine beach.	The present study examined the antibiotic resistance of heterotrophic bacteria, which were isolated from the sand of the beach located in the National Park of the southern Baltic Sea coast. The bacteria demonstrated low levels of antibiotic resistance. These microorganisms were the most resistant to cefaclor and clindamycin and the most sensitive to clarithromycin, doxycycline, gentamycin and oxytetracycline. The majority of bacteria inhabiting the sand of the studied beach were resistant to only one antibiotic out of 18 tested antibiotics in this study. The bacteria inhabiting the middle part of the beach and the dune were more antibiotic resistant than bacteria isolated from the seawater and the shoreline-seawater contact zone. Generally, there was no significant difference in antibiotic resistance between bacteria isolated from the surface and the subsurface sand layers. The bacterial antibiotic resistance level depends on the chemical structure of antibiotics.
Multifunctional mesoporous silica nanoparticles as labels for the preparation of ultrasensitive electrochemical immunosensors.	Labels based on mesoporous silica nanoparticles (MSN) loaded with mediator thionine (TH), enzyme horseradish peroxidase (HRP) and secondary anti-human IgG antibody (Ab(2)) were developed in order to improve the sensitivity and detection limit of an amperometric immunosensor. The sensitivity of the sandwich-type immunosensor using MSN-TH-HRP-Ab(2) as labels for human IgG detection was about 100 times higher than that using either MSN-TH-Ab(2) or MSN-HRP-Ab(2) as labels, indicating the high catalytic efficiency of HRP in the presence of mediator TH toward H(2)O(2). The immunosensor using MSN-TH-Ab(2) as labels exhibited a high sensitivity and showed a linear response within the range of 0.01-10 ng/mL human IgG. It also showed good reproducibility and selectivity and acceptable stability. These labels for immunosensors may provide many potential applications for the detection of different biomolecules.
Light extraction from organic light-emitting diodes for lighting applications by sand-blasting substrates.	Light extraction from organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs) by scattering the light is one of the effective methods for large-area lighting applications. In this paper, we present a very simple and cost-effective method to rough the substrates and hence to scatter the light. By simply sand-blasting the edges and back-side surface of the glass substrates, a 20% improvement of forward efficiency has been demonstrated. Moreover, due to scattering effect, a constant color over all viewing angles and uniform light pattern with Lambertian distribution has been obtained. This simple and cost-effective method may be suitable for mass production of large-area OLEDs for lighting applications.
Enhanced bioavailability of digoxin from silica matrix formulations (author's transl)]	The bioavailability of digoxin from 3 silica matrix formulations was assessed in single-dose crossover studies in 12 healthy human volunteers: digoxin/silica matrix tablets (I, Digacin), digoxin/silica matrix in capsule form (II) and digoxin/silica matrix drages, protected against gastrict juice by film coating (III). Urinary glycoside excretion for 6 days after 0.5 mg doses were measured by radioimmunoasay. Referring to an intravenous injection the bioavailability of digoxin from Digacin tablets is 82%, from the encapsulated matrix 69%, and from the drages 54%. In comparison with corresponding results from other investigators Digacin tablets havet the same high bioavailability as digoxin solutions. In vitro liberations of digoxin from the silica matrix formulations (94% in 90 s) is significantly better than from conventional tablets produces from a digoxin-lactose trituration (61% in 90 s).
Direct observation of fungal aggregates in sand dune soil.	The mycorrhizal fungus Glomerus in association with bean hosts, Phaseolus vulgaris L., growing in pot cultures and grass hosts, Calamovilfa longiflora (Hook). Scribn and Andropogon sp. growing on Lake Huron sand dunes produced extensive external mycelium. This mycelium was the dominant factor in the aggregation of soil particles. Light and scanning electron microscope studies indicated that the sand grains were attached to the hyphae. An amorphous deposit was often present at the interfaces of sand grains and hyphae. It appeared to act as an adhesive. Staining procedures indicated that this material contained polysaccharide. Other microogranisms were observed in association with the Glomus hyphae and the amorphous deposits.
Mechanised nanoparticles for drug delivery.	Time and time again humanity is faced with a unifying global crisis that crosses the many great divides in different societies and serves to bring once segregated communities back together as a collective whole. This global community instinctively turns to science to develop the means of addressing its most pressing problems. More often than not, these forces dictate the direction that scientific research takes. This influence is no more apparent than in the field of supramolecular chemistry where, for decades now, its responsibility to tackle such issues has been put on the back burner as a consequence of a lack of platforms with which to deliver this contemporary brand of chemistry to meaningful applications. However, the tide is slowly turning as new materials emerge from the field of nanotechnology that are poised to host the many attractive attributes that are inherent in the chemistry of these supermolecules and also in the mechanostereochemistry of mechanically interlocked molecules (MIMs), which can be reused as a sequel to supramolecular chemistry. Mesoporous silica nanoparticles (SNPs) have proven to be supremely effective solid supports as their surfaces are easily functionalised with either supermolecules or MIMs. In turn, the blending of supramolecular chemistry and mechanostereochemistry with mesoporous SNPs has led to a new class of materials - namely, mechanised SNPs that are effectively biological nanoscale 'bombs' that have the potential to infiltrate cells and then, upon the pulling of a chemical trigger, explode! The development of these materials has been driven by the need to devise new therapies for the treatment of cancer. Recent progress in research promises not only to control the acuteness of this widespread and insidious disease, but also to make the harsh treatment less debilitating to patients. This global scourge is the unifying force that has brought together supramolecular chemistry, mechanostereochemistry and nanotechnology, uniting these three communities for the common good. At the nanoscale level, the mechanism for the release of cargos from the confines of the nanopores in the SNPs is accomplished by way of mechanical modifications made on the surface of these functionalised supports. These mechanical motions rely on both supramolecular, i.e., host-guest complexes, and mechanostereochemical phenomena (e.g., bistable rotaxanes), which are often stimulated by changes in pH, light and redox potentials, in addition to enzymatic catalysis. The future of this field lies in the development of 'smart bombs' wherein the loaded mechanised SNPs are endocytosed selectively by cancer cells, whereupon an intracellular trigger causes release of a cytotoxin, effectively leading to apoptosis. This review serves to highlight (1) the evolution of surface-functionalisation of SNPs with supermolecules and also with MIMs, (2) the mechanisms through which controlled-release of cargo from mechanised SNPs occurs, and (3) results from the in vitro application of these mechanised SNPs.
Determination of methotrexate in plasma by on-column concentrations and ion-exchange chromatography.	A method for the concentration of dilute samples on a column and its application to the analysis of biomedical mixtures is described. Two columns are used, one for the concentration step and the other for the separation. The concentration column is used in the position of the loop in an injection valve. Concentration is effected by eluent switching. The influence of the chromatographic parameters such as capacity ratio and void volume on separation and detectability are described and the optimal choice of conditions is discussed. The method has been applied to the analysis of the cytostatic drug methotrexate. An octyl-modified silica was used as the stationary phase in the concentration column and a chemically bonded anion exchanger on silica in the separation column. The procedure shows good selectivity and precision. The detection limit corresponds to 2.10-8 M (9 ppb) in plasma, which is sufficiently low for therapeutic concentrations to be measured. An example of the use of the same stationary phase in both columns is given for the analysis of phenothiazines in blood, using alkyl-modified silica and electrochemical detection.
An in vitro study of certain properties of a glass ionomer cement.	A glass ionomer cement was tested for its release of fluoride, effect on solubility of enamel, bond to enamel, and ability to seal the cavity. It was comparable to silicate cement in its release of fluoride and its effect on solubility of enamel. The strength of the bond of the cement to tooth structure was similar to polycarboxylate cement, and it appeared to be quite effective in sealing cavities.
Optimization of formulation variables affecting spray-dried oily core nanocapsules by response surface methodology.	The formulation variables required for the production of spray-dried oily core nanocapsules (NCs) with targeted size and drug payload were optimized using a Box-Behnken experimental design. These NCs were characterized for size, morphology, encapsulation efficiency (EE%) and drug release kinetics, crystallinity, and density, by dynamic light scattering, electron microscopy, ultraviolet spectrometry, powder X-ray diffraction, and density-gradient centrifugation, respectively. The size of the NCs ranged from 208.6 to 504.4 nm, with EE% from 64.7% to 94.6%. The amounts of oil and surfactant (Pluronic F127) significantly affected size. The amounts of polymer [polylactide (PLA)], oil, and surfactant significantly affected EE%. The optimum formulation parameters were set to be 300 mg of PLA, 0.56 mL of oil, and 239.57 mg of Pluronic F127, which corresponded to size of 284.1 nm and EE% of 95.7%. Morphological analysis and density-gradient centrifugation showed the existence of an oily core and spherical nanostructure with no detectable drug crystals. The NCs had longer sustained drug release than nanosphere control, with a good fit to the Ritger-Peppas model (R(2) > 0.930). Spray-dried oily core NCs were successfully produced, and the Box-Behnken design appears to be an effective tool to predict the size and encapsulation of NCs.
New insights into silica-based NMR "chromatography".	Silica is used as an important component for NMR "chromatography". In this study the effect of the binding strength to silica of a variety of compounds on their diffusion rate is measured for the first time. Over two orders of magnitude of diffusion difference enhancement was obtained in the presence of silica for some compounds. An explanation of the enhancement is given that also allows one to predict the "chromatographic" behavior of new compounds or mixtures. The binding strength is divided into categories of weakly bound, singly bound and multiply bound. Carboxylates, sulfonates, and diols are found to be particularly strongly bound and to diffuse up to 2 orders of magnitude more slowly in the presence of silica.
Surface ablation of corneal stroma with few-cycle laser pulses at 800 nm.	We report measurements of crater diameter and surface ablation threshold as a function of laser fluence in porcine corneal stroma and fused silica with pulse durations of 7 fs (2.7 optical cycles), 30 fs and 100 fs at 800 nm. For laser pulses with Gaussian radial intensity profile, we show experimentally that the square of the crater diameter is a linear function of the logarithm of the fluence in fused silica, while it is closer to a linear function of the fluence in corneal stroma. Extrapolating these relations to zero diameter indicates that for both media the minimum fluence required for surface ablation is reduced with shorter pulse duration. A simple theoretical model suggests that this effect is due to a more significant contribution of photoionization as the laser pulse duration shortens.
Locomotory transition from water to sand and its effects on undulatory kinematics in sand lances (Ammodytidae).	Sand lances, fishes in the genus Ammodytes, exhibit a peculiar burrowing behavior in which they appear to swim rapidly into the substrate. They use posteriorly propagated undulations of the body to move in both water, a Newtonian fluid, and in sand, a non-Newtonian, granular substrate. In typical aquatic limbless locomotion, undulations of the body push against water, which flows because it is incapable of supporting the static stresses exerted by the animal, thus the undulations move in world space (slipping wave locomotion). In typical terrestrial limbless locomotion, these undulations push against substrate irregularities and move relatively little in world space (non-slipping wave locomotion). We used standard and X-ray video to determine the roles of slipping wave and non-slipping wave locomotion during burrowing in sand lances. We find that sand lances in water use slipping wave locomotion, similar to most aquatic undulators, but switch to non-slipping waves once they burrow. We identify a progression of three stages in the burrowing process: first, aquatic undulations similar to typical anguilliform locomotion (but without head yaw) push the head into the sand; second, more pronounced undulations of the aquatic portion of the body push most of the animal below ground; third, the remaining above-ground portion of the body ceases undulation and the subterranean portion takes over, transitioning to non-slipping wave locomotion. We find no evidence that sand lances use their body motions to fluidize the sand. Instead, as soon as enough of the body is underground, they undergo a kinematic shift and locomote like terrestrial limbless vertebrates.
Silica coating on alumina ceramic: comparison of three chairside air-abrasion devices working for different times and distances.	This study evaluated, by scanning electron microscope (SEM) and EDS, the effect of different strategies for silica coating (sandblasters, time and distance) of a glass-infiltrated ceramic (In-Ceram Alumina).
The inter-tidal zone is the pathway of input of enterococci to a subtropical recreational marine beach.	Efforts were made to evaluate the source of enterococci levels at a recreational beach. Four monitoring efforts were implemented which included tidal studies, hourly sampling, runoff sampling, and spatially intensive sediment sampling. Spatially intensive sediment sampling indicated that enterococci concentrations consistently decreased away from the inter-tidal zone, both seaward and landward. During dry conditions, the highest concentrations in the water were observed during high tide (7148 CFU/100 mL) and lower concentrations were observed during low tide (43 CFU/100 mL). Runoff was characterised by very high levels (11,700 CFU/100 mL). Results from these monitoring efforts collectively showed that the source of enterococci to the study beach is geographically located within the inter-tidal zone. Wash-in from the inter-tidal zone through tidal action and runoff plays a major role in controlling enterococci levels within the water column. Such results are significant in identifying the source and transport mechanisms of enterococci, which can subsequently be used as part of a modelling effort aimed at predicting enterococci levels at recreational beaches.
Pioneering fungi from the Damma glacier forefield in the Swiss Alps can promote granite weathering.	Fungi were isolated from fine granitic sediments, which were collected at 15 sampling points within a 20 m  40 m area in front of the Damma glacier in the central Swiss Alps. From the 45 fungal isolates grown on nutrient-rich agar media at 4 C, 24 isolates were selected for partial sequencing and identification based on the small subunit ribosomal DNA. Sequencing data revealed that the isolated fungi represented three fungal phyla and 15 species. The weathering potential of 10 of the 15 fungal species was tested with dissolution experiments using powdered granite material (<63 m). The results showed that the zygomyceteous species Mucor hiemalis, Umbelopsis isabellina and Mortierella alpina dissolved the granite powder most efficiently due to the release of a variety of organic acids, mainly citrate, malate and oxalate. In particular, the high concentrations of Ca, Fe, Mg and Mn in the solutions clustered well with the high amounts of exuded citrate. This is the first report on fungi that were isolated from a non-vegetated glacier forefield in which the fungi's capabilities to dissolve granite minerals were examined.
Self assembled 12-tungstophosphoric acid-silica mesoporous nanocomposites as proton exchange membranes for direct alcohol fuel cells.	A highly ordered inorganic electrolyte based on 12-tungstophosphoric acid (H(3)PW(12)O(40), abbreviated as HPW or PWA)-silica mesoporous nanocomposite was synthesized through a facile one-step self-assembly between the positively charged silica precursor and negatively charged PW(12)O(40)(3-) species. The self-assembled HPW-silica nanocomposites were characterized by small-angle XRD, TEM, nitrogen adsorption-desorption isotherms, ion exchange capacity, proton conductivity and solid-state (31)P NMR. The results show that highly ordered and uniform nanoarrays with long-range order are formed when the HPW content in the nanocomposites is equal to or lower than 25 wt%. The mesoporous structures/textures were clearly presented, with nanochannels of 3.2-3.5 nm in diameter. The (31)P NMR results indicates that there are (SiOH(2)(+))(H(2)PW(12)O(40)(-)) species in the HPW-silica nanocomposites. A HPW-silica (25/75 w/o) nanocomposite gave an activation energy of 13.0 kJ mol(-1) and proton conductivity of 0.076 S cm(-1) at 100 C and 100 RH%, and an activation energy of 26.1 kJ mol(-1) and proton conductivity of 0.05 S cm(-1) at 200 C with no external humidification. A fuel cell based on a 165 m thick HPW-silica nanocomposite membrane achieved a maximum power output of 128.5 and 112.0 mW cm(-2) for methanol and ethanol fuels, respectively, at 200 C. The high proton conductivity and good performance demonstrate the excellent water retention capability and great potential of the highly ordered HPW-silica mesoporous nanocomposites as high-temperature proton exchange membranes for direct alcohol fuel cells (DAFCs).
Bioassisted synthesis of catalytic gold/silica nanotubes using layer-by-layer assembled polypeptide templates.	We report the bioassisted synthesis of gold nanoparticle/silica (Au NP/silica) tubes using layer-by-layer (LBL) assembled poly(L-lysine)/poly(L-tyrosine) (PLL/PLT) multilayer films deposited on the polycarbonate (PC) membrane pores as both mediating agents and templates. The novelty of this approach is the in situ synthesis of Au NP/silica tubes using PLL/PLT multilayer films for sequential growth of Au NPs and silicas. The experimental data revealed that the buildup of the LBL multilayer films was mainly driven by the formation of hydrogen bond and the polypeptide macromolecular assemblies adopted mainly -sheet conformation. The as-prepared Au NP/silica tubes possessed promising catalytic activity toward the reduction of p-nitrophenol. The synthesis conditions such as the concentration of gold precursor and polypeptide molecular weight were found to influence the gold weight ratio and particle size in the tubes and the catalytic properties of the Au NP/silica tubes. This approach provides a facile, robust, and green method to obtain nonaggregated metal nanoparticles immobilized in porous oxide network at ambient conditions. Using the synergy between biomimetic or bioassisted synthesis of nanostructured materials and LbL assembly technique, a variety of structures such as films, tubes, and capsules comprising of multiple compositions can be obtained.
Bonding of a gingival shade composite to a denture base resin using a chemically activated 4-meta resin.	The purpose of the present study was to determine an effective surface preparation for the bonding of a gingival shade composite resin to a denture base resin. The flat surfaces of a heat-processed denture base resin were prepared in various ways. A highly filled gingival shade composite resin was applied and polymerized. Shear testing was performed in a universal testing machine, and the maximum fracture load values were determined. The application of chemically activated 4-META resin using the brush-dip technique was an effective surface preparation for the bonding of a gingival shade composite resin to a denture base resin.
Rapid purification of lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus by density gradient centrifugation in colloidal silica.	Lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus was purified from cell culture fluid by density gradient centrifugation in colloidal silica. The specific infectivity increased 5000-fold and the recovery of infectivity was about 10%.
F-cell levels are altered with erythrocyte density in sickle cell disease.	Lighter cells from density fractionated erythrocytes of sickle cell disease (SCD) patients carry higher amount of externalized phosphatidylserine (PS) and cell surface glycophorins compared to the denser counterparts. Further analysis also revealed that the denser cells contained higher levels of fetal hemoglobin (HbF) compared to the lighter cells, supported by the presence of larger number of F-cells in these populations. In this report, we have found direct evidence on the higher survival of the HbF rich erythrocytes in SCD.
Multifunctional hollow mesoporous silica nanocages for cancer cell detection and the combined chemotherapy and photodynamic therapy.	Highly uniform and multifunctional hollow mesoporous silica nanocages that combined excellent properties (good biocompatibility, fluorescence imaging, drug delivery, and dual-mode cancer therapy) in one single system were synthesized. Dye molecules labeled in the nanocages could be used as traceable detectors in fluorescence imaging. A chemotherapeutic drug, doxorubicin (DOX), has been loaded into the nanocages with a high storage capacity due to the large cubic cavities and could be released through the penetrating mesoporous channels in a sustained fashion. Hematoporphyrin molecules were also covalently doped in the nanocages and allowed for photodynamic therapy. More importantly, a cooperative, synergistic therapy combining chemotherapy and photodynamic therapy exhibited high therapeutic efficacy for cancer therapy in vitro.
Compatibility enhancement of polyimide-silica hybrid sol-gel materials without incorporation of silane-coupling agent.	A facile route has been developed to enhance compatibility between organic polyimide matrix and dispersed phase of inorganic silica particles without addition of conventional silane-coupling agent. The as-prepared hybrid sol-gel materials having reduced size of SiO2 particle dispersed in polyimide matrix were successfully synthesized through pre-catalyzed sol-gel route using an organic diamine base. The PI-silica hybrid materials through conventional polyamic acid-catalyzed sol-gel route with/without silane-coupling agent were also prepared for comparative control studies. Morphological feature of as-prepared sol-gel materials prepared from three different approaches was also compared based on the studies of transmission electron microscopy. Effects of the material composition, in three different catalyzed routes, were investigated by thermal stability, mechanical strength, optical clarity, gas barrier and water absorption measurements of polyimide and a series of polyimide-silica hybrid sol-gel materials, respectively.
Stoneley waves in three-layered cylindrical solid media.	This paper considers the propagation of Stoneley modes along the interfaces of three-layered concentric cylindrical solid media in order to assist in the design of ultrasonic transmission rods. The phase velocity dispersion curves and amplitude distributions are numerically analyzed. The modes are analogous to non-dispersive Stoneley waves and are confined to the vicinities of the two interfaces at high frequency. A key finding is that the peak amplitude location for each mode transfers between the two interfaces as a function of frequency. A simplified model is introduced, giving the peak amplitude locations of each mode in different frequency ranges efficiently.
Mucilaginibacter litoreus sp. nov., isolated from marine sand.	A Gram-staining-negative, non-spore-forming, facultatively anaerobic, non-flagellated, non-gliding, rod-shaped bacterium, designated strain BR-18(T), was isolated from marine sand collected on the western coast of South Korea. The taxonomic position of the novel strain was determined using a polyphasic approach. Strain BR-18(T) grew optimally at 25 C, at pH 6.5-7.0 and in the absence of NaCl. In phylogenetic analyses based on 16S rRNA gene sequences, the novel strain fell within a clade comprising members of the genus Mucilaginibacter and appeared most closely related to Mucilaginibacter lutimaris BR-3(T) (96.6 % sequence similarity) and Mucilaginibacter rigui WPCB133(T) (95.9 %). The novel strain showed lower levels of 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity with the type strains of other members of the genus Mucilaginibacter (93.4-95.5 %) and those of other species included in the phylogenetic analyses (<91.6 %). Strain BR-18(T) contained MK-7 as its predominant menaquinone, summed feature 3 (C(16 : 1)7c and/or iso-C(15 : 0) 2-OH) and iso-C(15 : 0) as its major fatty acids, phosphatidylethanolamine and an unidentified aminophospholipid as its major polar lipids, and sphingolipids. The genomic DNA G+C content of the novel strain was 42.4 mol%. Based on the phylogenetic and phenotypic data, strain BR-18(T) represents a novel species of the genus Mucilaginibacter, for which the name Mucilaginibacter litoreus sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is BR-18(T) (= KCTC 23697(T) = CCUG 61484(T)).
A study of fine aggregate replacement with fly ash an environmental friendly and economical solution.	The use of fly ash as a replacement of sand has a great potential to benefit our society in terms of reducing demand of natural sand, reducing environmental problems, conserving energy and reducing landfill area requirement. This paper presents an approach to increase the utilization of fly ash and conserve scarcely available natural sand for sustainable development. The experimental investigation by the inclusion of fly ash as a partial replacement of sand as compared to control cement mortar mixes indicated 50% to 100% increase in the compressive strength of mortar at 91 days. Replacement of 50% sand with fly ash can save about 0.4 m3 sand. Comparison of cost per N/mm2 compressive strength has shown about 40% to 60% saving in cost. Based on the experimental results, correlations are developed for finding out the compressive strength and cost at 28 and 91 days. Sand was replaced with 10% to 50% of fly ash by weight and 0.5, 0.55, 0.6 and 0.65 W/C ratios were used. Flow test performed for mortar revealed that as the percentage replacement of sand with the fly ash increased the flow of the mortar decreased. It was also observed that wet and dry densities were more than the control mortar for 10% & 20% replacement of sand with fly ash but for higher replacement percentage density reduced marginally.
Review of doped silica glass optical fibre: their TL properties and potential applications in radiation therapy dosimetry.	Review is made of dosimetric studies of Ge-doped SiO(2) telecommunication fibre as a 1-D thermoluminescence (TL) system for therapeutic applications. To-date, the response of these fibres has been investigated for UV sources, superficial X-ray beam therapy facilities, a synchrotron microbeam facility, electron linear accelerators, protons, neutrons and alpha particles, covering the energy range from a few eV to several MeV. Dosimetric characteristics include, reproducibility, fading, dose response, reciprocity between TL yield and dose-rate and energy dependence. The fibres produce a flat response to fixed photon and electron doses to within better than 3% of the mean TL distribution. Irradiated Ge-doped SiO(2) optical fibres show limited signal fading, with an average loss of TL signal of ~0.4% per day. In terms of dose response, Ge-doped SiO(2) optical fibres have been shown to provide linearity to x and electron doses, from a fraction of 1 Gy up to 2 kGy. The dosimeters have also been used in measuring photoelectron generation from iodinated contrast media; TL yields being some 60% greater in the presence of iodine than in its absence. The review is accompanied by previously unpublished data.
Graft shrinkage and survival rate of implants after sinus floor elevation using a nanocrystalline hydroxyapatite embedded in silica gel matrix:  a 1-year prospective study.	The aims of this study were (1) to evaluate the vertical shrinkage percentage of nanocrystalline hydroxyapatite embedded in silica gel used for maxillary sinus floor elevation (SFE) and (2) to determine the survival rate of the implants 1 year after placement in the healed grafted sinuses.
The influence of the playing surface on the exercise intensity of small-sided recreational soccer games.	This study aimed to analyze the influence of the playing surface on movement pattern, physical loading, perceived exertion, and fatigue development during small-sided recreational soccer games. Time-motion, heart rate, blood lactate, and perceived exertion were measured for 16 recreational players aged 22 (range: 19-35) yrs. During 5-a-side soccer games on 3 different field surfaces: sand, artificial turf, and asphalt. Jump and sprint tests were performed prior to and after each game. Total distance covered was higher on asphalt and turf than on sand (3.890.04 and 3.730.12 vs. 2.590.21 km; p<.01), and the number of high-intensity runs was higher on asphalt than on turf (553 vs. 433; p<.05), but not sand (466). Mean heart rate (meansSEM, 1603 vs. 1711 b.p.m.) and time>90% HR(max) (20.85.1% vs. 44.15.0%) were lower (p<.05) on asphalt than on turf, with intermediate values for sand. Blood lactate was lower on asphalt than on sand (2.80.3 vs. 4.70.6 mmolL(-1); p<.05). Perceived exertion was lower on asphalt than on turf and sand (VAS 0-100: 523 vs. 723 and 723; p<.01). After the game, squat and countermovement jump performances were lower (4.9-8.1%, and 1.9-6.4%, respectively; p<.001) for all field surfaces, but no changes were observed in 5- and 30-m sprint performance. Small-sided recreational soccer games elicit high heart rates, multiple intense actions, and decreased jump performance for all the investigated playing surfaces, suggesting that multiple fitness and health benefits can be achieved through soccer on sand, artificial turf and asphalt. Nonetheless, locomotor activities, heart rate, blood lactate levels, and perceived exertion differ between surfaces.
Lead retention by broiler litter biochars in small arms range soil: impact of pyrolysis temperature.	Phosphorus-rich manure biochar has a potential for stabilizing Pb and other heavy metal contaminants, as well as serving as a sterile fertilizer. In this study, broiler litter biochars produced at 350 and 650 C were employed to understand how biochar's elemental composition (P, K, Ca, Mg, Na, Cu, Pb, Sb, and Zn) affects the extent of heavy metal stabilization. Soil incubation experiments were conducted using a sandy, slightly acidic (pH 6.11) Pb-contaminated (19906 mg kg(-1) total Pb primarily as PbCO(3)) small arms range (SAR) soil fraction (<250 m) amended with 2-20 wt % biochar. The Pb stabilization in pH 4.9 acetate buffer reached maximum at lower (2-10 wt %) biochar amendment rate, and 350 C biochar containing more soluble P was better able to stabilize Pb than the 650 C biochar. The 350 C biochar consistently released greater amounts of P, K, Mg, Na, and Ca than 650 C biochar in both unbuffered (pH 4.5 sulfuric acid) and buffered (pH 4.9 acetate) systems, despite 1.9-4.5-fold greater total content of the 650 C biochar. Biochars, however, did not influence the total extractable Pb over three consecutive equilibration periods consisting of (1) 1 week in pH 4.5 sulfuric acid (simulated leaching by rainfall), (2) 1 week in pH 4.9 acetate buffer (standard solution for toxicity characteristic leaching procedure), and (3) 1 h in pH 1.5 glycine at 37 C (in vitro bioaccessibility procedure). Overall, lower pyrolysis temperature was favorable for stabilizing Pb (major risk driver of SAR soils) and releasing P, K, Ca, and other plant nutrients in a sandy acidic soil.
Density gradient enrichment of Escherichia coli lpxL mutants.	We previously described enrichment of conditional Escherichia coli msbA mutants defective in lipopolysaccharide export using Ludox density gradients (Doerrler WT (2007) Appl Environ Microbiol 73; 7992-7996). Here, we use this approach to isolate and characterize temperature-sensitive lpxL mutants. LpxL is a late acyltransferase of the pathway of lipid A biosynthesis (The Raetz Pathway). Sequencing the lpxL gene from the mutants revealed the presence of both missense and nonsense mutations. The missense mutations include several in close proximity to the enzyme's active site or conserved residues (E137K, H132Y, G168D). These data demonstrate that Ludox gradients can be used to efficiently isolate conditional E. coli mutants with defects in lipopolysaccharide biosynthesis and provide insight into the enzymatic mechanism of LpxL.
Simultaneous extraction and determination of HBCD isomers and TBBPA by ASE and LC-MSMS in fish.	Since the EFSA enquired a call for data for TBBPA and HBCD in 2009, the analytical determination of these compounds in food became of regulatory interest. Therefore, a method for the simultaneous determination of TBBPA and the three major HBCD stereoisomers was developed. Conventional techniques like soxhlet, ASE, GPC, sulphuric acid digestion, and acidified silica SPE are generally used in sample pre-treatment while detection is mostly performed by LC-MSMS. A combined analysis of HBCD and TBBPA is problematic due to the hydroxyl groups in the TBBPA molecule. However, using a specific mesh-size sodium sulphate in ASE extraction and an acid silica column combined with a Sep-pack Plus silica cartridge for purification resulted in recoveries between 80% and 110% for all compounds. The accuracy and reproducibility determined using proficiency test samples were 104% and 4% for the sum of the HBCD isomers. Typical limits of detection were 0.01 ng/g product or 0.004 ng on column, while the linear dynamic range is between 0.01 ng and 10 ng on column. Levels of TBBPA and HBCD isomers were determined in eel samples. TBBPA was occasionally detected and only marginally above the quantification limit of 0.05 ng/g, whereas total amounts of HBCD were between 0.2 and 150 ng/g with -HBCD being the dominant HBCD isomer.
Possibility of siliceous pollution in goldsmith workshops]	The AA. carried out a research in order to determine the entity and the localization of siliceous dust pollution in goldsmith-field in the industrial area near by Valenza Po, Northern Italy. The research put attention just on the microfusion process and it was carried out among factories that attend to this process continuously. In fact the "scagliola" is used only during microfusion. It is a sort of mixture containing a high quantity of quartz and cristobalite used for the moulding. Dangerous dusts are caused by the mentioned "scagliola" during stripping and mixing. The use of right technical precautionary measures can surely eliminate the risk.
Passive targeting of ischemic-reperfused myocardium with adenosine-loaded silica nanoparticles.	Pharmacological agents suggested for infarct size limitation have serious side effects when used at cardioprotective doses which hinders their translation into clinical practice. The solution to the problem might be direct delivery of cardioprotective drugs into ischemic-reperfused myocardium. In this study, we explored the potential of silica nanoparticles for passive delivery of adenosine, a prototype cardioprotective agent, into ischemic-reperfused heart tissue. In addition, the biodegradation of silica nanoparticles was studied both in vitro and in vivo. Immobilization of adenosine on the surface of silica nanoparticles resulted in enhancement of adenosine-mediated infarct size limitation in the rat model. Furthermore, the hypotensive effect of adenosine was attenuated after its adsorption on silica nanoparticles. We conclude that silica nanoparticles are biocompatible materials that might potentially be used as carriers for heart-targeted drug delivery.
Biosynthesis of indole-3-acetic acid by new Klebsiella oxytoca free and immobilized cells on inorganic matrices.	While many natural and synthetic compounds exhibit auxin-like activity in bioassays, indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) is recognized as the key auxin in most plants. IAA has been implicated in almost all aspects of plant growth and development and a large array of bacteria have been reported to enhance plant growth. Cells of Klebsiella oxytoca isolated from the rhizosphere of Aspidosperma polyneuron and immobilized by adsorption on different inorganic matrices were used for IAA production. The matrices were prepared by the sol-gel method and the silica-titanium was the most suitable matrix for effective immobilization. In operational stability assays, IAA production was maintained after four cycles of production, obtaining 42.80  2.03gmL(-1) of IAA in the third cycle, which corresponds to a 54% increase in production in relation to the first cycle, whereas free cells began losing activity after the first cycle. After 90 days of storage at 4C the immobilized cells showed the slight reduction of IAA production without significant loss of activity.
Storages and distributed patterns of soil organic carbon and total nitrogen during the succession of artificial sand-binding vegetation in arid desert ecosystem]	Soil carbon pool acts as the largest one of carbon pools in the terrestrial ecosystem. The storages and distributed patterns of soil organic carbon (SOC) and total nitrogen (TN) evaluated accurately are helpful to predict the feedback between the terrestrial ecosystem and climate changes. Based on the data about bulk density, content of SOC and TN at 0-100 cm soil profile, the density of SOC and TN at the temporal (chronosequence of artificial vegetation) and spatial (vertical) distributed patterns have been estimated. The results indicated that storages of SOC and TN at 0-100 cm depth increased with the chronosequence of artificial vegetation. The storages of SOC and TN showed the same tendency with the succession time of artificial vegetation. Storages of SOC and TN significantly increased at the early stage of banding sand by artificially vegetation (< 16 a), then piled up at the mid-stage (16-25 a), and markedly increased at the late stage (> 25 a). The variation of storages mainly occurred in the 0-20 cm depth. The storages decreased with the soil vertical depth. At the early stage of banding sand, increase in storage included every depth (0-100 cm). Whereas, at the later stage, increase in storage at 0-20 cm depth was main, and increase in the 20-100 cm was inconspicuous. The accumulation of storage at the shallow soil depth was more notability with the succession of artificial vegetation. The distributed pattern of storage in SOC and TN has been confirmed in arid desert regions below 200 mm annual precipitation. This was beneficial to understand the carbon cycle and to predict the feedback relationship between desert ecosystem and climate changes.
Performance of a sand filter in removal of micro-algae from seawater in aquaculture production systems.	In this study, a sand filter was used to remove micro-algae from seawater feeding aquaculture ponds. A lab-scale sand filter was used to filter 30,000 cells/mL of Heterocapsa triquetra suspension, a non-toxic micro-alga that has morphological and dimensional (15-20 microm) similarities with Alexandrium sp., one of the smallest toxic micro-algae in seawater. Removal efficiency and capture mechanisms for a fixed superficial velocity (3.5 m/h) were evaluated in relation to size distribution and mean diameter of the sand. Various sands (average diameter ranging between 200 microm and 600 microm) were characterized and used as porous media. The structural parameters of the fixed beds were evaluated for each medium using experimental measurements of pressure drop as a function of superficial velocity over a range of Reynolds numbers covering Darcy's regime and the inertial regime. For a filtration cycle of six hours, the best efficiency (E = 90%) was obtained with the following sand characteristics: sieved sand with a range of grain diameter of 100 and 300 microm and a mean grain diameter equal to 256 microm. Results obtained show the influence of the size distribution of sand on the quality of retention of the micro-algae studied.
Hierarchical analysis of vegetation dynamics over 71 years: soil-rainfall interactions in a Chihuahuan Desert ecosystem.	Proliferation of woody plants in grasslands and savannas is a persistent problem globally. This widely observed shift from grass to shrub dominance in rangelands worldwide has been heterogeneous in space and time largely due to cross-scale interactions among soils, climate, and land-use history. Our objective was to use a hierarchical framework to evaluate the relationship between spatial patterns in soil properties and long-term shrub dynamics in the northern Chihuahuan Desert of New Mexico, USA. To meet this objective, shrub patch dynamics from 1937 to 2008 were characterized at patch and landscape scales using historical imagery and a recent digital soils map. Effects of annual precipitation on patch dynamics on two soils revealed strong correlations between shrub growth on deep sandy soils and above-average rainfall years (r = 0.671, P = 0.034) and shrub colonization and below-average rainfall years on shallow sandy soils (r = 0.705, P = 0.023). Patch-level analysis of demographic patterns revealed significant differences between shrub patches on deep and shallow sandy soils during periods of above- and below-average rainfall. Both deep and shallow sandy soils exhibited low shrub cover in 1937 (1.0% +/- 2.3% and 0.3% +/- 1.3%, respectively [mean +/- SD]) and were characterized by colonization or appearance of new patches until 1960. However, different demographic responses to the cessation of severe drought on the two soils and increased frequency of wet years after 1960 have resulted in very different endpoints. In 2008 a shrubland occupied the deep sandy soils with cover at 19.8% +/- 9.1%, while a shrub-dominated grassland occurred on the shallow sandy soils with cover at 9.3% +/- 7.2%. Present-day shrub vegetation constitutes a shifting mosaic marked by the coexistence of patches at different stages of development. Management implications of this long-term multi-scale assessment of vegetation dynamics support the notion that soil properties may constrain grassland remediation. Such efforts on sandy soils should be focused on sites characterized by near-surface water-holding capacity, as those lacking available water-holding capacity in the shallow root zone pose challenges to grass recovery and survival.
Prevalence of dry methods in granite countertop fabrication in Oklahoma.	Granite countertop fabricators are at risk of exposure to respirable crystalline silica, which may cause silicosis and other lung conditions. The purpose of this study was to estimate the prevalence of exposure control methods, especially wet methods, in granite countertop fabrication in Oklahoma to assess how many workers might be at risk of overexposure to crystalline silica in this industry. Granite fabrication shops in the three largest metropolitan areas in Oklahoma were enumerated, and 47 of the 52 shops participated in a survey on fabrication methods. Countertop shops were small businesses with average work forces of fewer than 10 employees. Ten shops (21%) reported using exclusively wet methods during all fabrication steps. Thirty-five shops (74%) employing a total of about 200 workers reported using dry methods all or most of the time in at least one fabrication step. The tasks most often performed dry were edge profiling (17% of shops), cutting of grooves for reinforcing rods (62% of shops), and cutting of sink openings (45% of shops). All shops reported providing either half-face or full-face respirators for use during fabrication, but none reported doing respirator fit testing. Few shops reported using any kind of dust collection system. These findings suggest that current consumer demand for granite countertops is giving rise to a new wave of workers at risk of silicosis due to potential overexposure to granite dust.
A multi-beach study of Staphylococcus aureus, MRSA, and enterococci in seawater and beach sand.	Incidences of Staphylococcus aureus and methicillin resistant S. aureus (MRSA) have risen worldwide prompting a need to better understand routes of human exposure and whether standard bacterial water quality monitoring practices adequately account for this potential threat. Beach water and sand samples were analyzed during summer months for S. aureus, enterococci, and MRSA at three southern California beaches (Avalon, Doheny, Malibu Surfrider). S. aureus frequently was detected in samples of seawater (59%, n = 328) and beach sand (53%, n = 358). MRSA sometimes was detected in seawater (1.6%, n = 366) and sand (2.7%, n = 366) at relatively low concentrations. Site specific differences were observed, with Avalon Beach presenting the highest concentrations of S. aureus and Malibu Surfrider the lowest in both seawater and sand. S. aureus concentrations in seawater and sand were correlated to each other and to a variety of other parameters. Multiple linear regression on the combined beach data indicated that significant explanatory variables for S. aureus in seawater were S. aureus in sand, water temperature, enterococci in seawater, and the number of swimmers. In sand, S. aureus concentrations were related to S. aureus in seawater, water temperature, enterococci in seawater, and inversely to surf height classification. Only the correlation to water temperature held for individually analyzed beaches and for S. aureus concentrations in both seawater and sand. To provide context for these results, the prevalence of S. aureus in sand was compared to published fomite studies, and results suggested that beach prevalence was similar to that in homes.
Effect of staining solutions on color of pre-reacted glass-ionomer containing composites.	This study investigated the color stability of pre-reacted glass-ionomer containing composite restoratives. The materials evaluated included one regular (Beautifil II [BF]), two flowable (Beautifil Flow [F02, F10]) and two recently introduced flowable "plus" (Beautifil Flow Plus [F00, F03]) pre-reacted glass-ionomer containing composite restoratives. Twelve specimens of each material (A3 shade) were fabricated, allowed to set for 24 h at 37C and randomly divided into 4 groups. After baseline spectrophotometric (Crystaleye, Olympus) color measurements, specimens were immersed in water, cola, red wine and coffee for 7 days. Post-immersion color measurements were taken and color changes (E) were computed accordingly. Statistical analysis was done using ANOVA and post-hoc Scheffe's test (p<0.05). For pre-reacted glass-ionomer containing composites, color changes after immersion in coffee and red wine were significantly greater than in cola and water. Differences in E values between materials were solution dependent. The least color change was generally observed with the flowable "plus" pre-reacted glass-ionomer containing composites.
Examination of bond strength and mechanical properties of Y-TZP zirconia ceramics with different surface modifications.	The purpose of our study was to evaluate the effects of surface modifications on the bond strength between veneering porcelains and Yttria-stabilized tetragonal zirconia (Y-TZP). In a bond strength tests, the effect of control, 70 m alumina-sandblasting, 30 m and 110 m silica-coating of the Y-TZP surface on bonding were evaluated with veneering porcelains. In addition, the effect of surface modification on the flexural strength of Y-TZP was also evaluated. The data was analyzed using one-way ANOVA and Tukey test. All specimens showed bond strength values in excess of 25 MPa, the minimum allowed by ISO9693. In addition, significantly differences were found between the control and the 30 m silica-coated. On the other hand the flexural strength of Y-TZP does not significantly difference for any surface modification. These results indicate that silica-coating may provide an effective pre-treatment for this enhancement of the bond strength while maintaining the strength of Y-TZP.
Sparse pre-Columbian human habitation in western Amazonia.	Locally extensive pre-Columbian human occupation and modification occurred in the forests of the central and eastern Amazon Basin, but whether comparable impacts extend westward and into the vast terra firme (interfluvial) zones, remains unclear. We analyzed soils from 55 sites across central and western Amazonia to assess the history of human occupation. Sparse occurrences of charcoal and the lack of phytoliths from agricultural and disturbance species in the soils during pre-Columbian times indicated that human impacts on interfluvial forests were small, infrequent, and highly localized. No human artifacts or modified soils were found at any site surveyed. Riverine bluff areas also appeared less heavily occupied and disturbed than similar settings elsewhere. Our data indicate that human impacts on Amazonian forests were heterogeneous across this vast landscape.
Salmonellosis outbreak traced to playground sand, Australia, 2007-2009.	A community outbreak of gastroenteritis in Australia during 2007-2009 was caused by ingestion of playground sand contaminated with Salmonella enterica Paratyphi B, variant Java. The bacterium was also isolated from local wildlife. Findings support consideration of nonfood sources during salmonellosis outbreak investigations and indicate transmission through the animal-human interface.
Intermittent high-pressure sequential bioreactor (IHPSB) with integration of sand filtration system for synthetic wastewater treatment.	A pressurized activated sludge reactor with a sand layer installed at the bottom of the reactor for filtration purposes was employed for treating synthetic organic wastewater. The intermittent high-pressure sequential bioreactor (IHPSB) was pressurized to facilitate efficient oxygen transfer under elevated biomass conditions with pressure released periodically, i.e. aeration, for mixing and exchanging air. The sand layer integrated in the bottom of reactor was employed to separate sludge from treated water during the effluent discharging period. The results show that the proposed system can achieve chemical oxygen demand (COD) removal of higher than 90% under COD loading ranging from 3.3 to 14.3 kg COD/m3/day. SS of the effluent is quite stable and is less than 30 mg/L when MLSS is less than 18,000 mg/L. Oxygen transfer in the IHPSB is quite effective. Dissolved oxygen (DO) ranging from 16 to 10 mg/L was achieved with aeration cycle varying from 3 to 15 min. Thus, IHPSB can be quite energy efficient compared with traditional aerobic activated biological systems and membrane biological reactor systems.
Characterization of novel microsphere chain fiber optic tips for potential use in ophthalmic laser surgery.	Ophthalmic surgery may benefit from use of more precise fiber delivery systems during laser surgery. Some current ophthalmic surgical techniques rely on tedious mechanical dissection of tissue layers. In this study, chains of sapphire microspheres integrated into a hollow waveguide distal tip are used for erbium:YAG laser ablation studies in contact mode with ophthalmic tissues, ex vivo. The laser's short optical penetration depth combined with the small spot diameters achieved with this fiber probe may provide more precise tissue removal. One-, three-, and five-microsphere chain structures were characterized, resulting in FWHM diameters of 67, 32, and 30 m in air, respectively, with beam profiles comparable to simulations. Single Er:YAG pulses of 0.1 mJ and 75-s duration produced ablation craters with average diameters of 44, 30, and 17 m and depths of 26, 10, and 8 m, for one-, three-, and five-sphere structures, respectively. Microsphere chains produced spatial filtering of the multimode Er:YAG laser beam and fiber, providing spot diameters not otherwise available with conventional fiber systems. Because of the extremely shallow treatment depth, compact focused beam, and contact mode operation, this probe may have potential for use in dissecting epiretinal membranes and other ophthalmic tissues without damaging adjacent retinal tissue.
Uncertainties of stormwater characteristics and removal rates of stormwater treatment facilities: implications for stormwater handling.	Stormwater runoff is a major contributor to the pollution of receiving waters. This study focuses at characterising stormwater in order to be able to determine the impact of stormwater on receiving waters and to be able to select the most appropriate stormwater handling strategy. The stormwater characterisation is based on determining site mean concentrations (SMCs) and their uncertainties as well as the treatability of stormwater by monitoring specific pollutants concentration levels (TSS, COD, BOD, TKN, TP, Pb, Cu, Zn, E.coli) at three full scale stormwater treatment facilities in Arnhem, the Netherlands. This has resulted in 106 storm events being monitored at the lamella settler, 59 at the high rate sand filter and 132 at the soil filter during the 2 year monitoring period. The stormwater characteristics in Arnhem in terms of SMCs for main pollutants TSS and COD and settling velocities differ from international data. This implies that decisions for stormwater handling made on international literature data will very likely be wrong due to assuming too high concentrations of pollutants and misjudgement of the treatability of stormwater. The removal rates monitored at the full scale treatment facilities are within the expected range, with the soil filter and the sand filter having higher removal rates than the lamella settler. The full scale pilots revealed the importance of incorporating gross solids removal in the design of stormwater treatment facilities, as the gross solids determine operation and maintenance requirements.
Comparative performance of capillary columns made with totally porous and core-shell particles coated with a polysaccharide-based chiral selector in nano-liquid chromatography and capillary electrochromatography.	In this study two types of silica particles, one fully porous and the other superficial porous (core-shell or fused-core) were modified with a polysaccharide-type chiral selector and evaluated for the separation of enantiomers in nano-liquid chromatography (nano-LC) and capillary electrochromatography (CEC). The major goal of this project was to critically evaluate the contribution of the "flow through particles" to enhancing peak efficiency in CEC compared to nano-LC. The better performance of fused-core silica particles compared with silica particles of comparable size but having through pores questions the previous assumption that "flow through particles" is the major contributor to enhancing peak efficiencies observed in CEC. In addition, based on the results of this study it is suggested that contrary to previous reports on core-shell particles behaving poorly in narrow bore columns, these materials are quite suitable for CEC, at least in capillary columns of 100 m I.D.
Evaluation of propane flaming for reducing bacterial counts in sand bedding.	An experiment was conducted on a commercial dairy farm to determine the effects of propane flaming on bacterial populations of common environmental mastitis pathogens in recycled sand bedding. One row of freestalls was flamed within 12 h after recycled bedding was added to stalls and then daily for the next 6 d. Bedding in a control row of freestalls was untreated. Stalls received the same treatment for 3 consecutive weeks. After 3 wk, bedding treatments were changed between rows in a switchback design. The daily movement of the 760C propane-fueled flame at 3.2 km/h over the surface of recycled sand bedding in stalls had a positive effect by reducing mastitis pathogen loads at different depths of bedding in a pathogen-specific manner. The greatest reduction of mastitis pathogen populations by flaming was on the surface 25 mm of recycled sand. Reductions in bacterial counts in deeper layers were less consistent. Bacterial populations in both flamed and control sand bedding were lower on the surface 25 mm compared with sand at a depth of 50 to 75 mm. The effects of subsequent flaming of sand over a week also differed among pathogens. In general, mastitis pathogens were reduced the most on the day that recycled sand was added to stalls, and flaming was less effective as sand bedding was in stalls over a 6-d period. The use of propane flaming of recycled sand was shown to have potential as a practice to control mastitis pathogen populations in bedding. The greatest advantage afforded by flaming was on the surface of bedding, with inconsistent effects deeper in the stalls. Flaming was more effective in controlling bacterial populations in fresh recycled sand than in sand after several days use
Levels of thoron and progeny in high background radiation area of southeastern coast of Odisha, India.	Exposure to radon, (222)Rn, is assumed to be the most significant source of natural radiation to human beings in most cases. It is thought that radon and its progeny are major factors that cause cancer. The presence of thoron, (220)Rn, was often neglected because it was considered that the quantity of thoron in the environment is less than that of radon. However, recent studies have shown that a high thoron concentration was found in some regions and the exposure to (220)Rn and its progeny can equal or several time exceed that of (220)Rn and its progeny. The results of thoron and its progeny measurements in the houses of high background radiation area (HBRA) of the southeastern coast of Odisha, India presented here. This area is one of the high background radiation areas in India with a large deposit of monazite sand which is the probable source of thoron. Both active and passive methods were employed for the measurement of thoron and its progeny in cement, brick and mud houses in the study area. Thoron concentration was measured using RAD-7 and Raduet. A CR-39 track detector was employed for the measurement of environmental thoron progeny, both in active and passive modes. Thoron and its progeny concentrations were found to be comparatively high in the area. A comparison between the results obtained with various techniques is presented in this paper.
Measurement of radon/thoron exhalation rates and gamma-ray dose rate in granite areas in Japan.	Radon and thoron exhalation rates and gamma-ray dose rate in different places in Hiroshima Prefecture were measured. Exhalation rates were measured using an accumulation chamber method. The radon exhalation rate was found to vary from 3 to 37 mBq m(-2) s(-1), while the thoron exhalation rate ranged from 40 to 3330 mBq m(-2) s(-1). The highest radon exhalation rate (37 mBq m(-2) s(-1)) and gamma-ray dose rate (92 nGy h(-1)) were found in the same city (Kure City). In Kure City, indoor radon and thoron concentrations were previously measured at nine selected houses using a radon-thoron discriminative detector (Raduet). The indoor radon concentrations varied from 16 to 78 Bq m(-3), which was higher than the average value in Japan (15.5 Bq m(-3)). The indoor thoron concentration ranged from ND (not detected: below a detection limit of approximately 10 Bq m(-3)) to 314 Bq m(-3). The results suggest that radon exhalation rate from the ground is an influential factor for indoor radon concentration.
Natural radioactivity content in soil and indoor air of Chellanam.	Contribution of terrestrial radiation due to the presence of naturally occurring radionuclides in soil and air constitutes a significant component of the background radiation exposure to the population. The concentrations of natural radionuclides in the soil and indoor air of Chellanam were investigated with an aim of evaluating the environmental radioactivity level and radiation hazard to the population. Chellanam is in the suburbs of Cochin, with the Arabian Sea in the west and the Cochin backwaters in the east. Chellanam is situated at 25 km from the sites of these factories. The data obtained serve as a reference in documenting changes to the environmental radioactivity due to technical activities. Soil samples were collected from 30 locations of the study area. The activity concentrations of (232)Th, (238)U and (40)K in the samples were analysed using gamma spectrometry. The gamma dose rates were calculated using conversion factors recommended by UNSCEAR [United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation. Sources and effects of ionizing radiation. UNSCEAR (2000)]. The ambient radiation exposure rates measured in the area ranged from 74 to 195 nGy h(-1) with a mean value of 131 nGy h(-1). The significant radionuclides being (232)Th, (238)U and (40)K, their activities were used to arrive at the absorbed gamma dose rate with a mean value of 131 nGy h(-1) and the radium equivalent activity with a mean value of 162 Bq kg(-1). The radon progeny levels varied from 0.21 to 1.4 mWL with a mean value of 0.6 mWL. The thoron progeny varied from 0.34 to 2.9 mWL with a mean value of 0.85 mWL. The ratio between thoron and radon progenies varied from 1.4 to 2.3 with a mean of 1.6. The details of the study, analysis and results are discussed.
Inhalation and external doses in coastal villages of high background radiation area in Kollam, India.	The observational evidence for radiation-induced health effects in humans comes largely from the exposures to high doses received over short periods of time. The rate of induction of any health risk at low doses and dose rates is estimated by extrapolation from observations at high doses. Effects of low dose/low dose rate could be done by the study of populations that have been exposed to slightly above-average natural radiation doses. Southwest coastal line of the Kerala state in India is one such region known to have elevated levels of background radioactivity mainly due to the mineral-rich sand available with high abundance of thorium. In the present work, a study was conducted to investigate the inhalation and external radiation doses to human beings in the high background radiation area along the southwest coast of Kerala. Five hundred dwellings were selected for the study. All the selected houses were at least 10 y old with similar construction. Long-term integrated indoor measurements of the external gamma dose using thermoluminescent dosemeters (TLDs) and the inhalation dose with the SSNTD-based twin-cup dosemeters were carried out in the dwellings simultaneously. Ambient gamma dose measurements were also made with a GM tube-based survey meter while deploying and retrieving the dosemeters. The data show a high degree of heterogeneity. The inhalation dose was found to vary from 0.1 to 3.53 mSv y(-1) and the external dose rates had a range of 383-11419 Gy y(-1). The external doses measured by the survey meter and TLDs showed an excellent correlation.
Cerebrovascular toxicity of PCB153 is enhanced by binding to silica nanoparticles.	Environmental polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are frequently bound onto nanoparticles (NPs). However, the toxicity and health effects of PCBs assembled onto nanoparticles are unknown. The aim of this study was to study the hypothesis that binding PCBs to silica NPs potentiates PCB-induced cerebrovascular toxicity and brain damage in an experimental stroke model. Mice (C57BL/6, males, 12-week-old) were exposed to PCB153 bound to NPs (PCB153-NPs), PCB153, or vehicle. PCB153 was administered in the amount of 5 ng/g body weight. A group of treated animals was subjected to a 40 min ischemia, followed by a 24 h reperfusion. The blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability, brain infarct volume, expression of tight junction (TJ) proteins, and inflammatory mediators were assessed. As compared to controls, a 24 h exposure to PCB153-NPs injected into cerebral vasculature resulted in significant elevation of the BBB permeability, disruption of TJ protein expression, increased proinflammatory responses, and enhanced monocyte transmigration in mouse brain capillaries. Importantly, exposure to PCB153-NPs increased stroke volume and potentiated brain damage in mice subjected to ischemia/reperfusion. A long-term (30 days) oral exposure to PCB153-NPs resulted in a higher PCB153 content in the abdominal adipose tissue and amplified adhesion of leukocytes to the brain endothelium as compared to treatment with PCB153 alone. This study provides the first evidence that binding to NPs increases cerebrovascular toxicity of environmental toxicants, such as PCB153.
Determination of zinc and copper in edible plants by nanometer silica coated, slotted quartz tube, flame atomic absorption spectrometry.	Nanometer SiO(2) was coated onto the inner wall of a slotted quartz tube atomizer (STAT) and then was used as a new atomizer (NSC- STAT) for the determination of Zn and Cu by flame atomic absorption spectrometry (FAAS). Compared to conventional STAT-FAAS, the analytical performance of NSC-STAT-FAAS was improved as follows: (a) the linear range of calibration curves was expanded from 30.0-200.0 ng mL(-1) to 5.0-400.0 ng mL(-1) for Zn, and from 100.0-1000.0 ng mL(-1) to 50.0-2000.0 ng mL(-1) for Cu; and (b) the characteristic concentration was decreased from 6.0 ng mL(-1)/1% to 2.7 ng mL(-1)/1% for Zn and from 25.0 ng mL(-1)/1% to 10.1 ng mL(-1)/1% for Cu. NSC-STAT-FAAS was applied for the determination of Zn and Cu in edible plants, including herbal medicine, marine algae, tomato leaves (NIST 1573), and apple leaves (NIST 1515).
Periodic plasmonic enhancing epitopes on a whispering gallery mode biosensor.	We propose the attachment of a periodic array of gold nanoparticles (epitopes) to the equator of a Whispering Gallery Mode Biosensor for the purpose of plasmonically enhancing nanoparticle sensing in a self-referencing manner while increasing the capture rate of analyte to antibodies attached to these plasmonic epitopes. Our approach can be applied to a variety of whispering gallery mode resonators from silicon/silica rings and disks to capillaries. The interpretation of the signals is particularly simple since the optical phase difference between the epitopes is designed to be an integer multiple of ?, allowing the wavelength shift from each binding event to add independently.
Generating tunable optical pulses over the ultrabroad range of 1.6-2.5 m in GeO2-doped silica fibers with an Er:fiber laser source.	We report generation of femtosecond optical pulses tunable in the 1.6-2.5 m range using GeO2-doped core silica-cladding fibers. Optical solitons with a duration of 80-160 fs have been measured by the FROG technique in the 2-2.3 m range. To the best of our knowledge, these are the longest wavelength temporally characterized solitons generated in silica-based fibers. We have also demonstrated more than octave-spanning femtosecond supercontinuum generation in the 1.0-2.6 m range.
Ultrasonic investigation of the effect of S-PRG filler-containing coating material on bovine tooth demineralization.	This study investigated the effect of a coating material containing S-PRG fillers on the demineralization of bovine enamel and dentin, by measuring changes in the transmitted ultrasonic velocity. Bovine enamel and dentin specimens with and without coating (n=6 for each condition) were cut into blocks, immersed in 0.1 M lactic-acid buffer solution (pH 4.75) for 10 min twice daily throughout the test period, and stored in a demineralising artificial saliva solution (pH 7.0) between treatments. The propagation time of longitudinal ultrasonic waves was measured by a pulser-receiver with a transducer. Data were evaluated using ANOVA followed by Tukey's HSD test (=0.05). The sonic velocity decreased over time for specimens stored in demineralising solution; however, coated specimens had a significantly higher sonic velocity than those without coating. The coating material containing pre-reacted glass-ionomer fillers therefore appeared to reduce the demineralisation of enamel and dentin.
Effect of remaining dentin thickness on bond strength of various adhesive systems to dentin.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of remaining dentin thickness (RDT) on resin composite bond strength to dentin surfaces when using various adhesive systems. One of three adhesives, Clearfil SE Bond, Single Bond or Clearfil Tri-S Bond, followed by Z100 resin composite were built up on flat dentin surfaces of human molars. The teeth were sectioned obtaining beams with crosssectional areas of approximately 1 mm(2). RDT was measured and microtensile bond strength was determined. Resulting data were categorized into four groups: RDT<2 mm; 2RDT<3 mm; 3RDT<4 mm; RDT4 mm. Clearfil SE Bond showed a correlation between TBS and RDT. Single Bond showed no significant difference in TBS for any RDT. The bond strength of resin composite to the different RDT flat dentin surfaces was affected by the adhesive system used.
Mucilaginibacter sabulilitoris sp. nov., isolated from marine sand in a firth.	A Gram-stain-negative, non-spore-forming, strictly aerobic, non-flagellated, non-gliding, rod-shaped bacterial strain, designated SMS-12(T), was isolated from marine sand in a firth on the western coast of South Korea. Strain SMS-12(T) grew optimally at 25 C, at pH 7.0-7.5 and in the absence of NaCl. Phylogenetic trees based on 16S rRNA gene sequences revealed that strain SMS-12(T) fell within the clade comprising species of the genus Mucilaginibacter, forming a coherent cluster with the type strain of Mucilaginibacter lappiensis, with which it exhibited the highest 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity value of 97.5 %. Levels of sequence similarity to the type strains of the other species of the genus Mucilaginibacter and the other species used in the phylogenetic analysis were 93.3-96.4 % and <91.5 %, respectively. Strain SMS-12(T) contained MK-7 as the predominant menaquinone, and summed feature 3 (C16 : 17c and/or iso-C15 : 0 2-OH), iso-C15 : 0 and iso-C17 : 0 3-OH as the major fatty acids. The major polar lipids were phosphatidylethanolamine and one unidentified aminophospholipid; sphingolipids were present. The DNA G+C content was 41.8 mol% and the mean DNA-DNA relatedness with M. lappiensis KACC 14978(T) was 13 %. Differential phenotypic properties, together with phylogenetic and genetic distinctiveness, revealed that strain SMS-12(T) is separate from other species of the genus Mucilaginibacter. On the basis of the data presented, strain SMS-12(T) is considered to represent a novel species of the genus Mucilaginibacter, for which the name Mucilaginibacter sabulilitoris sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is SMS-12(T) ( = KCTC 32111(T) = CCUG 62214(T)).
Arenitalea lutea gen. nov., sp. nov., a marine bacterium of the family Flavobacteriaceae isolated from intertidal sand.	A yellow, rod-shaped, Gram-negative, facultatively aerobic, gliding bacterium, designed strain P7-3-5(T), was isolated from intertidal sand of the Yellow Sea, China. Analysis of 16S rRNA gene sequences revealed that strain P7-3-5(T) formed a distinct lineage within the family Flavobacteriaceae, sharing 94.2-96.9 % sequence similarity with type strains of species of the most closely related genera, including Hyunsoonleella, Jejuia, Marinivirga and Algibacter. The strain grew at 4-40 C and with 0.5-5.0 % (w/v) NaCl. It reduced nitrate to nitrite and hydrolysed gelatin and DNA. The major cellular fatty acids were iso-C15 : 0, iso-C15 : 1 G and anteiso-C15 : 0 and the major respiratory quinone was MK-6. Polar lipids included phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), three unidentified aminolipids (AL1-3) and four unidentified lipids (L1-4). The genomic DNA G+C content of strain P7-3-5(T) was 32.1 mol%. Data from this polyphasic study suggest that strain P7-3-5(T) represents a novel species in a new genus in the family Flavobacteriaceae, for which the name Arenitalea lutea gen. nov., sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain of Arenitalea lutea is P7-3-5(T) ( = CGMCC 1.12213(T) = KACC 16457(T)).
Intraspecific variation of a desert shrub species in phenotypic plasticity in response to sand burial.	Shoot elongation is one of the main plastic responses of plants to burial, a ubiquitous stress factor in dry ecosystems. Yet, intraspecific variation in this response to burial and the extent to which this variation is functionally coordinated with variation in other trait responses are largely unknown. We subjected seedlings of the shrub Caragana intermedia from 18 maternal parents (i.e. different half-sib families) to repeated partial burial to investigate how burial affects shoot growth, stem mechanical traits and associated plasticity. Burial increased both stem elongation and diameter growth of plants, but decreased biomass production. Half-sib families had different rates of shoot elongation, and differed in their response to burial with respect to biomechanical stem properties. Across half-sib families, the magnitude of these responses in mechanical traits was positively correlated with the magnitude of the stem elongation response. These results indicate that plasticity in different stem traits in response to sand burial and intraspecific variation therein are functionally coordinated with respect to mechanical stability. The results emphasize the importance of considering functionally coordinated traits when analyzing phenotypic plasticity in plants. 
Microbiological and mycological beach sand quality in a volcanic environment: Madeira archipelago, Portugal.	Madeira forms a mid-Atlantic volcanic archipelago, whose economy is largely dependent on tourism. There, one can encounter different types of sand beach: natural basaltic, natural calcareous and artificial calcareous. Microbiological and mycological quality of the sand was analyzed in two different years. Bacterial indicators were detected in higher number in 2010 (36.7% of the samples) than in 2011 (9.1%). Mycological indicators were detected in a similar percentage of samples in 2010 (68.3%) and 2011 (75%), even though the total number of colonies detected in 2010 was much higher (827 in 41 samples) than in 2011 (427 in 66 samples). Enterococci and potentially pathogenic and allergenic fungi (particularly Penicillium sp.) were the most common indicators detected in both years. Candida sp. yeast was also commonly detected in the samples. The analysis of the 3rd quartile and maximum numbers of all indicators in samples showed that artificial beaches tend to be more contaminated than the natural ones. However, a significant difference between the variables was lacking. More monitoring data (number of bathers, sea birds, radiation intensity variation, and a greater number of samples) should be collected in order to confirm if these differences are significant. In general, the sand quality in the archipelago's beaches was good. As the sand may be a vector of diseases, an international common set of indicators and values and a compatible methodologies for assessing sand contamination, should be defined, in order to provide the bather's with an indication of beach sand quality, rather than only the water. 
High-dose N-acetylcysteine decreases silica-induced lung fibrosis in the rat.	To study the potential of high-dose N-acetylcysteine (NAC) to attenuate silica-induced pulmonary fibrosis in the rat.
Enhancement of phototoxicity of curcumin in human oral cancer cells using silica nanoparticles as delivery vehicle.	We report results on the use of organically modified silica nanoparticles (SiNp) as a vehicle for the delivery of curcumin in human oral cancer cells for improvement of uptake and phototoxicity. Nanoformulated drug (curcumin-SiNp complex) was prepared by postloading curcumin in SiNp, and the complex was soluble in aqueous solution. Cellular uptake studied by fluorescence microscopy and spectroscopy showed that curcumin accumulation was higher when cells were incubated with curcumin-SiNp complex as against free curcumin. Studies carried out on incubation time-dependent cytotoxicity, inhibition of NF-B activity, suppression of NF-B-regulated proteins involved in invasion (MMP-9), angiogenesis (VEGF), and inflammation (TNF-) showed that curcumin-SiNp leads to significant improvement over free curcumin in dark as well as on exposure to light. 
Natural radioactivity and radiation index of the major plutonic bodies in Greece.	The natural radioactivity of the major plutonic bodies in Greece, as well as the assessment of any potential health hazard due to their usage as decorative building materials is studied. One hundred and twenty one samples from every major plutonic body in Greece, including various rock-types from gabbro to granite, have been measured for their natural radioactivity using -spectrometry methodology. According to the experimental results, the natural radioactivity levels were ranged up to 315Bqkg(-1) for (226)Ra, up to 376Bqkg(-1) for (232)Th and up to 1632Bqkg(-1) for (40)K, with arithmetic mean values and standard deviations of 74 (51), 85 (54) and 881 (331) Bqkg(-1) respectively, which are below the international representative mean values for granite stones. The excess on the effective dose received annually indoors due to granite tiles usage is estimated considering a standard room model where granite tiles with 1.5cm in thickness cover only the floor of the room. The increment on the external -radiation effective dose rate shows a Gaussian distribution well dispersed below 0.3mSvy(-1), presenting a mean value of 0.14 (0.06)mSvy(-1). In case of the internal -radiation a log-normal distribution is appeared scattering below 0.5mSvy(-1) with a mean value 0.19 (0.13)mSvy(-1), for a well-ventilated living environment. In case of a poor-ventilated room the increment on internal effective dose rate is estimated with a mean value 0.27 (0.19)mSvy(-1) scattering below 0.8mSvy(-1). The majority of the samples increase the external as well as the internal dose less than 30% of the maximum permitted limit of the effective dose rate. Therefore, at least from radiological point of view, the plutonic rocks of Greece could be safely used as decorative building materials. 
Microsporidian diversity in soil, sand, and compost of the Pacific Northwest.	Microsporidia are intracellular parasites considered to be ubiquitous in the environment. Yet the true extent of their diversity in soils, sand, and compost remains unclear. We examined microsporidian diversity found in the common urban environments of soil, sand, and compost. We retrieved 22 novel microsporidian sequences and only four from described species. Their distribution was generally restricted to a single site and sample type. Surprisingly, one novel microsporidian showed a wide distribution, and high prevalence, as it was detected in five different compost samples and in soil samples collected over 200km apart. These results suggest that the majority of Microsporidia appear to have a narrow distribution. Our phylogenetic analysis indicated that the Microsporidia detected in this study include representatives from four of the five major microsporidian groups. Furthermore, the addition of our new sequences calls into question the cohesiveness of microsporidian clade II. These results highlight the importance of increasing our knowledge of microsporidian diversity to better understand the phylogenetic relationships and evolutionary history of this important group of emerging parasites. 
Does rinsing following particle deposition methods have a negative effect on adhesion to titanium?	This study evaluated whether air blasting or rinsing particle remnants with water would impair adhesion of resin composite to metal.
Silica-induced chronic inflammation promotes lung carcinogenesis in the context of an immunosuppressive microenvironment.	The association between inflammation and lung tumor development has been clearly demonstrated. However, little is known concerning the molecular events preceding the development of lung cancer. In this study, we characterize a chemically induced lung cancer mouse model in which lung cancer developed in the presence of silicotic chronic inflammation. Silica-induced lung inflammation increased the incidence and multiplicity of lung cancer in mice treated with N-nitrosodimethylamine, a carcinogen found in tobacco smoke. Histologic and molecular analysis revealed that concomitant chronic inflammation contributed to lung tumorigenesis through induction of preneoplastic changes in lung epithelial cells. In addition, silica-mediated inflammation generated an immunosuppressive microenvironment in which we observed increased expression of programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1), transforming growth factor-1, monocyte chemotactic protein 1 (MCP-1), lymphocyte-activation gene 3 (LAG3), and forkhead box P3 (FOXP3), as well as the presence of regulatory T cells. Finally, the K-RAS mutational profile of the tumors changed from Q61R to G12D mutations in the inflammatory milieu. In summary, we describe some of the early molecular changes associated to lung carcinogenesis in a chronic inflammatory microenvironment and provide novel information concerning the mechanisms underlying the formation and the fate of preneoplastic lesions in the silicotic lung.
Biosurfactant-producing and oil-degrading Bacillus subtilis strains enhance oil recovery in laboratory sand-pack columns.	Microbial Enhanced Oil Recovery (MEOR) technology uses microorganisms and their metabolites to retrieve unrecoverable oil from mature reservoirs. In situ stimulation of biosurfactant-producing and oil-degrading microorganisms reduces the capillary forces retaining the oil inside the reservoir and decreases its viscosity, thus promoting oil flow and consequently production. In this work, a sand-pack column model was designed to simulate oil recovery operations and evaluate mobilization of residual oil by the selected microorganisms. Four different hydrocarbon mixtures and three Bacillus subtilis strains isolated from crude oil samples were used. Additional oil recoveries ranged from 6 to 24% depending on the hydrocarbon mixture and microorganism used. Biosurfactant production was observed with all the microorganisms and hydrocarbon mixtures studied. The oils recovered after incubation with B. subtilis isolates showed a reduction in the percentage of long-chain n-alkanes and lower viscosity when compared with the original oils. The results obtained suggest that stimulation of the selected B. subtilis strains in situ can contribute to mobilize entrapped oil in mature reservoirs. 
Acoustic mode coupling due to subaqueous sand dunes in the South China Sea.	The large subaqueous sand dunes on the upper continental slope of the South China Sea are expected to couple acoustic propagating normal modes. In this letter, the criterion of adiabatic invariance is extended to the case of a waveguide possessing bedforms. Using the extended criterion to examine mode propagation over the bedforms observed in the sand dune field in 2012, results demonstrate that bedforms increase mode coupling strength such that the criterion for adiabatic propagation is exceeded for waveguides with small bedform amplitude to water depth ratios; increasing bedform amplitude enhances mode coupling. Numerical simulations confirm the extended criterion parameterization. 
Adsorption, structural alteration and elution of peptides at pendant PEO layers.	An experimentally based, quantitative understanding of the entrapment and function of small peptides within PEO brush layers does not currently exist. Earlier work provided a rationale for expecting that an ordered, compact peptide will enter the PEO phase more readily than a peptide of similar size that adopts a less ordered, less compact form, and that amphiphilicity will promote peptide retention within the hydrophobic region of the PEO brush. Here we more deliberately describe criteria for peptide integration and structural change within the PEO brush, and discuss the reversibility of peptide entrapment with changing solvent conditions. For this purpose, circular dichroism (CD) was used to record the adsorption and conformational changes of (amphiphilic) WLBU2 and (non-amphiphilic) polyarginine peptides at uncoated (hydrophobic) and PEO-coated silica nanoparticles. Peptide conformation was controlled between disordered and -helical forms by varying the concentration of perchlorate ion. We show an initially more ordered (-helical) structure promotes peptide adsorption into the PEO layer. Further, a partially helical peptide undergoes an increase in helicity after entry, likely due to concomitant loss of capacity for peptide-solvent hydrogen bonding. Peptide interaction with the PEO chains resulted in entrapment and conformational change that was irreversible to elution with changing solution conditions in the case of the amphiphilic peptide. In contrast, the adsorption and conformational change of the non-amphiphilic peptide was reversible. These results indicate that responsive drug delivery systems based on peptide-loaded PEO layers can be controlled by modulation of solution conditions and peptide amphiphilicity. 
Isocyanate-mediated covalent immobilization of Mucor miehei lipase onto SBA-15 for transesterification reaction.	Mucor miehei lipase (Mm-L) covalently bind on a hexagonally ordered silica SBA-15 (Santa Barbara Amorphous), previously functionalized with isocyanate moieties, was examined as biocatalyst for transesterification of colza oil with methanol. The isocyanate-mesoporous silica (NCO-SBA-15) was obtained by condensation of silanol with triethoxysilane propyl isocyanate (TPI). The efficiency of the functionalization has been evidenced by infrared, (29)Si and (13)C NMR spectroscopies. The substrate provided a moderate hydrophobic microenvironment together with reactive sites for chemical immobilization of the enzyme. The biocatalyst containing 0.28g of Mm-L per gram of support afforded a high level of transesterification activity (yield up to 80%) while using 1:1 molar ratio of methanol/colza oil and small amount of water. The biocatalyst showed higher operational stability than the corresponding physisorbed enzyme since it can be reused 6 times against 2 consecutive runs for the physisorbed enzyme. 
Target-induced displacement reaction accompanying cargo release from magnetic mesoporous silica nanocontainers for fluorescence immunoassay.	A new fluorescence immunoassay strategy based on a target-induced displacement reaction with cargo release from protein-gated carbohydrate-functionalized magnetic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (MMSN) was developed for sensitive detection of small molecular mycotoxins (aflatoxin B1, AFB1 used in this case). To construct such an assay system, MMSN was initially functionalized with mannose-terminated silanes, then capped with biotinylated concanavalin A (Con A) entrapped rhodamine B (RB) within the pores through the carbohydrate-protein interaction, and then biotinylated monoclonal anti-AFB1 capture antibody was conjugated to Con A-functionalized MMSN by the streptavidin-biotin chemistry. Gold nanoparticles (AuNP) heavily functionalized with invertase and bovine serum albumin-AFB1 conjugate were utilized as the trace tag. With AFB1 introduction, a competitive immunoreaction for the immobilized anti-AFB1 antibody on the MMSN was started between target analyte and the labeled AFB1 on the AuNP. Accompanied by AuNP, the carried invertase hydrolyzed sucrose in glucose and fructose. The generated glucose competed with the mannose for Con A and displaced the Con A-antibody complex from the MMSN, resulting in the opening of molecular gates owing to the uncapping of MMSN, thereby the entrapped RB could release from the pores. The released RB could be quantitatively determined by a fluorometer. Under optimal conditions, the fluorescence intensity decreased with the increasing AFB1 concentration in the range from 0.01 to 5 ng mL(-1) with a detection limit (LOD) of 8 pg mL(-1) at the 3sblank criterion. Intra- and interbatch assay precisions were lower than 9 and 9.5% (CV), respectively. The method featured unbiased identification of negative (blank) and positive samples. No significant differences at the 0.05 significance level were encountered in the analysis of naturally contaminated peanut samples between the fluorescence immunoassay and a commercialized enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) method. 
Top-down mass spectrometry on tissue extracts and biofluids with isoelectric focusing and superficially porous silica liquid chromatography.	Top-down mass spectrometry (MS) has emerged as a powerful complement to peptide-based proteomics. Despite advancements, the field has had limited application to clinical proteomics investigations due to the complexity and poor dynamic range of chromatography used to separate intact proteins from tissue and biofluids. To address these limitations, we developed a two-dimensional (2D) chromatography platform that includes isoelectric focusing (IEF) through immobilized pH gradient and superficially porous liquid chromatography (SPLC). Analysis of standard proteins demonstrates compatibility of IEF-SPLC processing and high resolving-power MS analysis with results showing ~7.0 femtomole detection limits and linear spectral response for proteins fractionated over ~4 log sample loads. For proteins from heart myofibrils and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), compared to one-dimensional SPLC-MS, the 2D IEF-SPLC-MS platform resulted in a 5-6 increase in the number of unique monoisotopic masses observed <30 kDa and an ~4 improved mass range enabling the observation of proteins >200 kDa. In the heart myofibrils, common protein proteoforms observed were associated with phosphorylation of contractile proteins with results showing that quantitative evaluation of their PTM stoichiometry was possible despite differentially modified forms being fractionated into separate pI compartments. In CSF, diverse protein mutations and PTM classes were also observed, including differentially glycosylated protein forms separated to different pI. Results also demonstrate that by the generation of IEF-SPLC protein libraries by fraction collection, the platform enables prospective protein identification and proteoform analysis investigations by complementary top-down and bottom-up strategies. Overall, the 2D platform presented may provide the speed, dynamic range, and detection limits necessary for routine characterization of proteoform-based biomarkers from biofluids and tissues.
Stabilization of metal nanoparticle films on glass surfaces using ultrathin silica coating.	Metal nanoparticle (NP) films, prepared by adsorption of NPs from a colloidal solution onto a preconditioned solid substrate, usually form well-dispersed random NP monolayers on the surface. For certain metals (e.g., Au, Ag, Cu), the NP films display a characteristic localized surface plasmon resonance (LSPR) extinction band, conveniently measured using transmission or reflection ultraviolet-visible light (UV-vis) spectroscopy. The surface plasmon band wavelength, intensity, and shape are affected by (among other parameters) the NP spatial distribution on the surface and the effective refractive index (RI) of the surrounding medium. A major concern in the formation of such NP assemblies on surfaces is a commonly observed instability, i.e., a strong tendency of the NPs to undergo aggregation upon removal from the solution and drying, expressed as a drastic change in the LSPR band. Since various imaging modes and applications require dried NP films, preservation of the film initial (wet) morphology and optical properties upon drying are highly desirable. The latter is achieved in the present work by introducing a convenient and generally applicable method for preventing NP aggregation upon drying while preserving the original film morphology and optical response. Stabilization of Au and Ag NP monolayers toward drying is accomplished by coating the immobilized NPs with an ultrathin (3.0-3.5 nm) silica layer, deposited using a sol-gel reaction performed on an intermediate self-assembled aminosilane layer. The thin silica coating prevents NP aggregation and maintains the initial NP film morphology and LSPR response during several cycles of drying and immersion in water. It is shown that the silica-coated NP films retain their properties as effective LSPR transducers. 
Purification of hepatitis B surface antigen virus-like particles from recombinant Pichia pastoris and in vivo analysis of their immunogenic properties.	Following earlier studies on high-level intracellular production of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) using recombinant Pichia pastoris, we present here in detail an enhanced method for the purification of recombinant HBsAg virus-like particles (VLPs). We have screened various detergents for their ability to promote the solubilization of recombinant intracellular HBsAg. In addition, we have analyzed the effect of cell disruption and extraction regarding their impact on the release of HBsAg. Our results show that introduction of the mild nonionic detergent Tween 20 in the initial process of cell lysis at 600bars by high pressure homogenization leads to the best results. The subsequent purification steps involved polyethylene glycol precipitation of host cell contaminants, hydrophobic adsorption of HBsAg to colloidal silica followed by ion-exchange chromatography and either isopycnic density ultracentrifugation or size exclusion chromatography for the recovery of the VLPs. After final KSCN treatment and dialysis, a total yield of 3% with a purity of >99% was reached. The pure protein was characterized by electron microscopy, showing the presence of uniform VLPs which are the pre-requisite for immunogenicity. The intramuscular co-administration of HBsAg VLPs, with either alum or a PEGylated-derivative of the toll-like receptor 2/6 agonist MALP-2, to mice resulted in the elicitation of significantly higher HBsAg-specific IgG titers as well as a stronger cellular immune response compared to mice vaccinated with a gold standard vaccine (Engerix). These results show that P. pastoris derived HBsAg VLPs exhibit a high potential as a superior biosimilar vaccine against hepatitis B. 
Coupling of HPLC with electrospray ionization mass spectrometry for studying the aging of ultrasmall multifunctional gadolinium-based silica nanoparticles.	Sub-5 nm multimodal nanoparticles have great potential for theranostic applications due to their easy renal elimination combined with complementary imaging properties and therapeutic facilities. Their potential clinical use requires the full characterization of not only the nanoparticle but also all its possible degradation products. We have recently proposed new ultrasmall gadolinium-based nanoparticles for multimodal imaging and radiosensitization. The aim of this article is to describe an analytical tool to characterize degradation products in a highly diluted medium. We demonstrate that HPLC coupled to electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) can be used in order to determine precisely the composition of nanoparticles and their degradation fragments during aging. 
How long wavelengths can one extract from silica-core fibers?	The generation of wavelengths above 3 m by nonlinear processes in short silica photonic crystal fibers is investigated numerically. It was found that wavelengths in the 3-3.5 m range may be generated quite efficiently in centimeter-long fiber pieces when pumping with femtosecond pulses in the 1.55-2 m range. Wavelengths in the range of 3.5-4 m can in principle be generated, but these require shorter fiber lengths for efficient extraction. The results indicate that useful 3 m sources may be fabricated with existing silica-based fiber technology.
Disinfection of tertiary wastewater effluent prior to river discharge using peracetic acid; treatment efficiency and results on by-products formed in full scale tests.	This is an investigation of chemical disinfection, with peracetic acid (PAA), in a tertiary sand filter at a full scale activated sludge plant with nitrification/denitrification and P-removal. The reduction efficiency of Escherichia coli and intestinal enterococci in the sand filter is reported. E. coli log reductions of between 0.4 and 2.2 were found with contact times from 6 to 37 min and with dosing from 0 to 4.8 mg L(-1). The average log reduction was 1.3. The decomposition products, bromophenols, chlorophenols and formaldehyde and residual H2O2 were measured before and after the sand filter. The residual H2O2 concentration in the effluent was critical at short contact times and high dosages of PAA due to the discharge limit of 25 g L(-1). The other three products could not be detected at 0.1 g L(-1) levels. The chemical cost of PAA dosing is estimated to be 0.039 US$ m(-3) treated wastewater. 
Salt rejection and water flux through a tubular pervaporative polymer membrane designed for irrigation applications.	The performance of a hydrophilic polyester tubular pervaporative membrane in treating high-salinity water for irrigation was investigated. The membrane was filled with contaminated water and placed in air, soil or sand media. When this occurs water diffuses through the tube, trapping salts within the tube. Sorption and permeation tests and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) were used to assess salt rejection and permeate flux through the tubular membrane when surrounded by deionized water, air, top soil or silver sand. Mean water uptake by the membrane was 0.5 L x m(-2) at room temperature and the water diffusion coefficient was 3.8 x 10(-4) cm2 x s(-1). The permeate flux across the membrane was 7.9 x 10(-3) L(m(-2) x h(-1)) in sand and 5.6 x 10(-2) in air. The rejection of sodium chloride by the tubular membrane in sand was 99.8% or above under all tested conditions. However, when the tube was filled with sodium chloride solution and placed in deionized water, salt was observed to permeate the membrane. SEM images confirmed that variable amounts of sodium chloride crystals were retained inside the membrane walls. These results support the potential application of such a tubular pervaporative membrane for irrigation applications using saline waters; however there may be reduced salt rejection under waterlogged soil conditions.
Bond strength of silorane- and methacrylate-based composites to resin-modified glass ionomers.	This study evaluated the shear-bond strength of a resin-modified glass ionomer (RMGI) restorative material to a new silorane-based composite and a methacrylate-based composite in a sandwich technique with various combinations of surface treatments and bonding agents. Two composites, 2 bonding agents and 4 surface preparations were used to create 16 groups with 10 specimens each. After 24 hours storage at 37C in 100% humidity, the specimens were tested for shear bond strength; means and standard deviations were determined per group. Surface modifications did not affect the shear-bond strength of the silorane or methacrylate composites to the RMGI. The new silorane composite had significantly lower bond strength to the RMGI compared to the methacrylate composite. The new silorane system adhesive agent had significantly higher bond strength to the RMGI compared to the methacrylate adhesive agent. The greatest bond strengths to the RMGI were produced when using the silorane system adhesive agent with the methacrylate composite. 
Biological sulfate removal from construction and demolition debris leachate: effect of bioreactor configuration.	Due to the contamination of construction and demolition debris (CDD) by gypsum drywall, especially, its sand fraction (CDD sand, CDDS), the sulfate content in CDDS exceeds the posed limit of the maximum amount of sulfate present in building sand (1.73 g sulfate per kg of sand for the Netherlands). Therefore, the CDDS cannot be reused for construction. The CDDS has to be washed in order to remove most of the impurities and to obtain the right sulfate content, thus generating a leachate, containing high sulfate and calcium concentrations. This study aimed at developing a biological sulfate reduction system for CDDS leachate treatment and compared three different reactor configurations for the sulfate reduction step: the upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) reactor, inverse fluidized bed (IFB) reactor and gas lift anaerobic membrane bioreactor (GL-AnMBR). This investigation demonstrated that all three systems can be applied for the treatment of CDDS leachate. The highest sulfate removal efficiency of 75-85% was achieved at a hydraulic retention time (HRT) of 15.5h. A high calcium concentration up to 1,000 mg L(-1) did not give any adverse effect on the sulfate removal efficiency of the IFB and GL-AnMBR systems.
Characteristics of rat pancreatic zymogen granules prepared by different methods.	Zymogen granules isolated from tissue homogenates by differential centrifugation in isotonic sucrose solutions show substantial release of digestive enzyme when suspended in isotonic NaCl and in sucrose solutions at pH values above neutrality. A recent study reported a new method for isolating granules, involving the use of a complex homogenization medium and a Percoll gradient that was claimed to produce "stable" granules, i.e., granules that do not release their content in salt solutions and at pH values at or above neutrality. In the present study, we compare granules prepared in both ways, particularly in terms of their tendency to release amylase in isotonic ionic solutions and as a function of pH. The relative absence of amylase release from granules isolated by the new technique was found to be attributable to simple differences in the details of the experimental procedures that were used and not to actual differences in the characteristics of the two granule preparations. For example, previous studies with granules prepared in sucrose solutions reported substantial salt-induced release at 37 degrees C, whereas the recent study reporting the absence of salt-induced release from granules obtained from a Percoll gradient was done at 24 degrees C. Under the identical experimental conditions as used in the present study, little amylase release was seen at 24 degrees C for granules isolated by either technique, but substantial release was seen for both at 37 degrees C.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effect of sand versus grass training surfaces during an 8-week pre-season conditioning programme in team sport athletes.	This study compared the use of sand and grass training surfaces throughout an 8-week conditioning programme in well-trained female team sport athletes (n = 24). Performance testing was conducted pre- and post-training and included measures of leg strength and balance, vertical jump, agility, 20 m speed, repeat speed (8  20 m every 20 s), as well as running economy and maximal oxygen consumption (VO2max). Heart rate (HR), training load (rating of perceived exertion (RPE)  duration), movement patterns and perceptual measures were monitored throughout each training session. Participants completed 2  1 h conditioning sessions per week on sand (SAND) or grass (GRASS) surfaces, incorporating interval training, sprint and agility drills, and small-sided games. Results showed a significantly higher (P < 0.05) HR and training load in the SAND versus GRASS group throughout each week of training, plus some moderate effect sizes to suggest lower perceptual ratings of soreness and fatigue on SAND. Significantly greater (P < 0.05) improvements in VO2max were measured for SAND compared to GRASS. These results suggest that substituting sand for grass training surfaces throughout an 8-week conditioning programme can significantly increase the relative exercise intensity and training load, subsequently leading to superior improvements in aerobic fitness.
An insulin monitoring device based on hyphenation between molecularly imprinted micro-solid phase extraction and complementary molecularly imprinted polymer-sensor.	Molecularly imprinted micro-solid phase extraction fiber was developed by modifying molecularly imprinted polymer film on the surface of silica fiber exploring "grafting via surface attached monomer" (method I) and "grafting via sol-gel" (method II) approaches. The latter approach was found to be inferior to the former one in terms of the sensitivity of insulin detection [method I, LOD=0.009ngmL(-1); method II, LOD=0.064ngmL(-1), RSD=1.21%]. Notably, either of the techniques, molecularly imprinted micro-solid phase extraction or complementary sensor, was found to be incompetent to monitor the stringent level of insulin in the real samples. However, the combination of these techniques has been found quite suitable for achieving the high detection sensitivity of ultra-trace insulin in human blood serum and Huminsulin injection, without any non-specific (false-positives) contributions. The proposed hyphenated device could serve as a possible marker for risk of developing type 2 diabetes mellitus and diabetic coma due to insulin resistance in human beings. 
Novel carbamoyl type quinine and quinidine based chiral anion exchangers implementing alkyne-azide cycloaddition immobilization chemistry.	The synthesis and chromatographic evaluation of a series of new Cinchona derived chiral weak anion exchangers is presented. Huisgen Cu(I) mediated alkyne-azide cycloaddition, so-called click chemistry, was used as an immobilization strategy. In this way it was possible to immobilize about 90% of offered selector via 1,2,3-triazole linker, which displays a more efficient way of binding the selector to modified silica compared to common radical mediated thiol-ene addition. Problems associated with potential radical scavenging properties of chiral selectors thereby could be circumvented. The evaluation of the synthesized chiral stationary phases regarding chromatographic behavior was carried out using polar organic mode mobile phase composition and a set of representative chiral organic acids. Different loading densities revealed an optimum selector density of about 310mol/g chiral stationary phase with respect to resolution and selectivity. A decrease of performance was observed for higher loading, indicating mutual spatial influence of selector units leading to sterical hindrance. In addition, we observed that the effect of free azide groups on retention is negligible and the overall chromatographic behavior is comparable to other Cinchona derived chiral stationary phases. 
Transport of E. coli in a sandy soil as impacted by depth to water table.	Septic systems are considered a source of groundwater contamination. In the study described in this article, the fate of microbes applied to a sandy loam soil from North Carolina coastal plain as impacted by water table depth was studied. Soil materials were packed to a depth of 65 cm in 17 columns (15-cm diameter), and a water table was established at 30, 45, and 60 cm depths using five replications. Each day, 200 mL of an artificial septic tank effluent inoculated with E. coli were applied to the top of each column, a 100-mL sample was collected at the water table level and analyzed for E. coli, and 100 mL was drained from the bottom to maintain the water table. Two columns were used as control and received 200 mL/day of sterilized effluent. Neither 30 nor 45 cm of unsaturated soil was adequate to attenuate bacterial contamination, while 60 cm of separation appeared to be sufficient. Little bacterial contamination moved with the water table when it was lowered from 30 to 60 cm.
Experimental investigation on influence of foam mobility on polychlorinated biphenyl removal in foam flushing.	Foam flushing is an in situ soil remediation technology based on the traditional surfactant flushing method. The mobility control by introduction of foam is helpful in improving this technology. In this study, foam flushing ofpolychlorinatedbiphenyl (PCB)-contaminated media was performed to evaluate the effect of foam mobility on PCB removal. The conductivity and sweep efficiency (SE) of foam with different Triton X-100 concentrations and gas contents through two sands (with permeability of 15 darcy and 120 darcy) were tested. The results indicate that the presence of foam can not only reduce the mobility and increase the SE values of washing agent in single media, but can also reduce the discrepancy of fluid mobility and SE values between different sands, primarily due to the additional capillary resistance arising from the Jamin effect. The increases of PCB removal by foam agreed with the increases of SE values: foam (5.00 g/L) flushing increased the PCB removal from 79.4% by solution flushing to 85.1% for coarse sand, and increased the value from 64.2% to 79.1% for fine sand. When surfactant concentration and gas-liquid ratio vary, the variation of PCB removal showed the same trend with the change of SE, and an opposite trend with the change of foam mobility. High concentration of surfactant (5.00 g/L) and a foam quality of 97.0% are most favourable for the reduction of foam mobility. On the other hand, the negative effect of foam caused by the reduction of effective cross-section will reduce the foam remediation efficiency, especially under a low Triton X-100 concentration condition.
Reduction of centrifugation force in discontinuous percoll gradients increases in vitro fertilization rates without reducing bovine sperm recovery.	The objective of this study was to determine the effect of different centrifugation forces in bovine sperm separation by discontinuous Percoll gradients for in vitro fertilization IVF. The semen samples from each bull were pooled or each bull were centrifuged separately and centrifuged in discontinuous Percoll gradients (30, 60 and 90%) at different forces: F1 (9000g), F2 (6500g), F3 (4500g) and F4 (2200g), according experiment. The sperm samples were evaluated to determine the concentration, motility, vigor, morphology, reactive oxygen species (ROS), integrity of the plasma membrane, lipid peroxidation, antioxidants and embryo development were also evaluated. No difference was observed in the concentration of sperm submitted to different centrifugation forces. The total percentage of motile sperm was increased after centrifugation at F3 and F4, and the ROS production at F1 was greater than the other forces. When the bulls semen were processed individually, no significant differences were observed for the sperm quality parameters between F1 and F4, including lipid peroxidation, antioxidants, cleavage rate and average time to the first cleavage. This work demonstrated for the first time that centrifugation at 2200g enhanced the sperm penetration and fertilization rates without reducing sperm recovery compared to the typical centrifugation force (9000g) currently used by the commercial bovine IVF industry. 
Sorption and degradation of petroleum hydrocarbons, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, alkylphenols, bisphenol A and phthalates in landfill leachate using sand, activated carbon and peat filters.	Landfill leachates are repeatedly found contaminated with organic pollutants, such as alkylphenols (APs), phthalates and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) at levels exceeding water quality standards. It has been shown that these pollutants may be present in the colloidal and truly dissolved phase in contaminated water, making particle separation an inefficient removal method. The aim of this study was to investigate sorption and degradation of petroleum hydrocarbons (PHCs), selected APs, bisphenol A (BPA), phthalates and PAHs from landfill leachate using sand, granulated activated carbon (GAC) and peat moss filters. A pilot plant was installed at an inactive landfill with mixed industrial and household waste and samples were collected before and after each filter during two years. Leachate pre-treated in oil separator and sedimentation pond failed to meet water quality standards in most samples and little improvement was seen after the sand filter. These techniques are based on particle removal, whereas the analysed pollutants are found, to varying degrees, bound to colloids or dissolved. However, even highly hydrophobic compounds expected to be particle-bound, such as the PHCs and high-molecular weight PAHs, were poorly removed in the sand filter. The APs and BPA were completely removed by the GAC filter, while mass balance calculations indicate that 50-80% of the investigated phenols were removed in the peat filter. Results suggest possible AP degradation in peat filters. No evidence of phthalate degradation in the landfill, pond or the filters was found. The PHCs were completely removed in 50% and 35% of the measured occasions in the GAC and peat filters, respectively. The opposite trend was seen for removal of PAHs in GAC (50%) and peat (63%). Oxygenated PAHs with high toxicity were found in the leachates but not in the pond sediment. These compounds are likely formed in the pond water, which is alarming because sedimentation ponds are commonly used treatment techniques. The oxy-PAHs were effectively removed in the GAC, and especially the peat filter. It was hypothesized that dissolved compounds would adsorb equally well to the peat and GAC filters. This was not completely supported as the GAC filter was in general more efficient than peat. 
Greenhouse gases fluxes of biological soil crusts and soil ecosystem in the artificial sand-fixing vegetation region in Shapotou area]	Uncertainties still existed for evaluating greenhouse gases fluxes (GHGs), including carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O) at the regional scale for desert ecosystem because available GHGs data about biological soil crusts (BSCs) was very scarce. In 2011 and 2012, soil ecosystem covered by various types of BSCs and BSCs at different succession stages in an artificial sand-fixing vegetation region established in various periods at southeast of the Shapotou area in Tengger Desert was selected to measure fluxes of CO2, CH4 and N2O using static chamber and gas chromatography. The results showed that curst type, recovery time and their interactions with sampling date significantly affected CO2 flux. Recovery time and interaction of crust type and sampling date significantly affected CH4 flux. Sampling date significantly affected the fluxes of CO2, CH4 and N2O. The mean annual flux of CO2 for moss crust (105.1 mg x m(-2) x h(-1)) was significantly higher than that of algae crust (37.7 mg x m(-2) x h(-1)) at the same succession stage. Annual mean CH4 and N2O consumption was 19.9 and 3.4 microg x m(-2) x h(-1), respectively. Mean annual consumption of CH4 and N2O for algae crust was slightly higher than that of moss crust, however, significant difference was not found. Ecosystem respiration (Re) of desert soil covered by BSCs increased with the recovery process of desert ecosystem, in contrast, consumption of CH4 and N2O decreased. Re of moss crust was more sensitive to temperature and moisture variation than algae crust and Re sensitivity of temperature and moisture gradually increased with the development and succession of BSCs. Both soil temperature and moisture were not the main factor to determine CH4 and N2O fluxes of BSCs-soil in desert ecosystem.
Variation in buoyant density of whole cells and isolated cell walls of Streptococcus faecium (ATCC 9790).	The buoyant density of whole cells of Streptococcus faecium varies with growth rate and during the cell cycle. Two possible explanations for this were explored: (i) the density of cell walls may vary, and (ii) the proportions of wall and cytoplasm may vary. We tested the first possibility by isolating walls from chilled, unfixed populations of S. faecium cells and fractionating them on Percoll density gradients. Mean cell wall density averaged 4% less than whole-cell density and did not vary significantly with growth rate. In addition, walls isolated from heavy and light fractions of a population of cells did not differ significantly in density. Thus, variation in the density of isolated cell walls could not account for the observed variation in whole-cell density within or between populations. Using previously published measurements of the physical dimensions of S. faecium cells, we also found that the relative proportions of wall and cytoplasm (see the second possibility above) could not account for the observed changes in whole-cell buoyant density.
Tricarboxylate carrier of bovine liver mitochondria. Purification and reconstitution.	The tricarboxylate carrier of bovine liver mitochondria has been solubilized by Triton X-114 and purified by chromatography on hydroxylapatite and Silica Gel 60. The purified carrier could be visualized as a single band in polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulfate with Mr 37,000-38,000. The carrier, after reconstitution in phospholipid vesicles, catalyzed the exchange of [14C]citrate against citrate, malate, and threo-D8-isocitrate and was inhibited by the specific tricarboxylate carrier inhibitor 1,2,3-benzenetricarboxylic acid.
Serum factors alter the extent of dephosphorylation of ligands endocytosed via the mannose 6-phosphate/insulin-like growth factor II receptor.	Mouse L-cells that contain the cation-independent (CI) mannose 6-phosphate (Man 6-P)/insulin-like growth factor (IGF) II receptor endocytose acid hydrolases and deliver these enzymes to lysosomes. The postendocytic loss of the Man 6-P recognition marker from the cell-associated acid hydrolases was assessed by CI-Man 6-P receptor affinity chromatography. 125I-labeled acid hydrolases internalized by L-cells grown at high density were delivered to lysosomes but were not dephosphorylated. In contrast, the same 125I-labeled hydrolases internalized by L-cells maintained at low density were delivered to lysosomes and were extensively dephosphorylated. The dephosphorylation at low density required 5 h for completion suggesting that the phosphatase responsible for the dephosphorylation is located within the lysosomal compartment. Transition from the high to low density state was rapid and was not inhibited by cycloheximide. Medium substitution experiments indicated that serum factors were necessary to maintain the L-cells in the dephosphorylation-competent (low density) state, and that serum-free conditions led to a dephosphorylation-incompetent (high density) state. Addition of IGF II to cells in serum-free medium allowed acid hydrolases subsequently introduced by endocytosis to be dephosphorylated. The results indicate that the removal of the Man 6-P recognition marker from endocytosed acid hydrolases is regulated by serum factors in the growth medium, including IGF II.
The comparative clinical cariostatic efficacy of sodium fluoride and sodium monofluorophosphate dentifrices: a review of trials.	This report reviews the methods and findings of published clinical studies comparing dentifrices containing sodium fluoride (NaF) and sodium monofluorophosphate (Na2PO3F) for the purpose of determining whether sodium fluoride formulations have superior cariostatic effects. Nine of ten reported trials found a numerical advantage for sodium fluoride dentifrices with highly compatible abrasive systems and the hypothesis that these two fluoride agents have equivalent cariostatic effects is rejected (p = 0.011). Therefore, the collective clinical evidence demonstrates that dentifrices containing NaF have greater cariostatic effectiveness than dentifrices containing Na2PO3F.
Porosity determination of cast investment by a wax-infiltration technique.	A reproducible method of determining the porosity (pore volume) of cast investment materials is described. This procedure, requiring no highly specialized equipment, involved the infiltration of a test sample with paraffin wax and the weighing of the wax-infiltrated sample in both air and water. Pore-volume wax is then extracted with chloroform and the sample reweighed. The difference in weight is used to calculate the porosity of the investment material. Pore-volume data thus obtained are comparable to those resulting from standard techniques and far more sophisticated (and expensive) instrumentation. The porosities of hand-mixed samples of gypsum-bonded, phosphate-bonded and silica-bonded investments were 53.9 per cent, 36.9 per cent and 31.4 per cent and those of the vacuum-mixed samples were 52.5 per cent, 31.3 per cent and 26.9 per cent, respectively. The results show that gypsum-bonded investments were more porous than phosphate-bonded investments while silica-bonded investments were the least porous. Hand-mixed samples appeared to have greater porosity than vacuum-mixed samples.
Temperature measurements during ultrasound hyperthermia.	In this study the ultrasonic field distortions and the temperature measurement errors caused by temperature sensing probes were investigated. It was found that probes with diameters equal to or greater than 1/2 of the square root of the wavelength (lambda) scatter and reflect the waves, and thus distort the field significantly. Smaller probes down to lambda 1/2/5 in diameter had a detectable effect which was very local and, therefore, will probably not have a significant effect on the overall temperature distribution. When the temperature measurement errors were studied, even the smallest probes showed some self-heating artifact and its magnitude depended on the probe size, material, structure, orientation, and the operating frequency. This error was small with most of the nonultrasound absorbing probes (such as bare wires or stainless steel needle probes), but significant with plastic shielded thermocouples. The energy absorption associated with plastic coated probes can be reduced by orienting the probe parallel to the beam, by scanning the focus in such a manner that the focus is not passing on the sensor, and by inserting the probe in a stainless steel catheter. The temperature measurement error can also be reduced by covering the plastic probe with a high- (or low-) acoustical impedance material around the sensor. This would scatter the sound around the probe, thus preventing energy absorption in the plastic. This arrangement can preserve the desirable properties of plastic probes (mainly flexibility, strength, and electrical isolation from the patient) while at the same time allowing fairly absorption artifact free measurements.
Is the desert lung syndrome (nonoccupational dust pneumoconiosis) a variant of pulmonary alveolar microlithiasis? Report of 4 cases with review of the literature.	Four cases of pulmonary alveolar microlithiasis are presented. These patients had heavy exposure to sand particles for long periods. This is to hypothesize that those sand particles are responsible for triggering a hyperimmune response resulting in the formation of microlithiasis. Previously expressed theories had linked microlithiasis to external irritants and the condition has similarities with desert lung syndrome, a disease definitely caused by the deposition of sand silica in the lungs.
The role of the reticuloendothelial system in the immunopathology of Marek's disease.	The role of macrophages in immunity against Marek's disease (MD) was studied. Chickens of one group were subjected to depletion of macrophages using repeated doses of Francil amorphous silica and those of another group were subjected to activation of macrophages using repeated doses of brewer's thioglycollate broth. Chickens of a third group were vaccinated with herpesvirus of turkeys FC 126 vaccine followed by depletion of macrophages. Chickens of these three groups, as well as groups of healthy unvaccinated and healthy vaccinated chickens, were challenged with virulent MD virus. A sixth group of healthy uninfected chickens was kept as a control. The results, based on clinical signs, gross and histopathological studies and agar gel precipitation test (AGPT) for antibodies, indicated that activation of macrophages enhanced immunity against MD and depletion of macrophages had the opposite effect. The protective effect of vaccination against MD was also lowered by depletion of macrophages. The results of AGPT indicated retardation of MD virus replication by macrophage activation and the reverse on depletion.
Approaches to characterize by density-fractionation age-dependent properties of reticulocyte mitochondria.	Mitochondria from rabbit reticulocytes of varying maturity were prepared by means of two different methods and separated in sucrose and Percoll density gradients. A mechanical method of cell disintegration under isotonic conditions followed by centrifugation in a Percoll density gradient proved to be adequate to reflect the physiological conditions. "Young" mitochondria exhibit in this system greater density and higher specific activity of cytochrome oxidase.
Adsorbed behavior of spin-labeled silane coupling agent on colloidal silica studied by electron spin resonance.	The adsorption mechanism of silane coupling agent on the colloidal silica surface is studied with spin-labeled silane coupling agent using ESR method. The density of the adsorbed silane molecules was determined to be approximately 1.5-2 molecules per 100 A2 of the silica surface in 95% ethanol solution. In addition, ESR signal of spin-labeled agent adsorbed on the colloidal silica surface was composed of two components; slow component attributable to the agents adsorbed directly on the Si--OH groups of the silica surface through hydrogen bond formation and rapid one attributable to the agents interacted with such adsorbed silane molecules.
Synthesis and immobilization of a novel acridine derivative on microparticulate silica. A study of its interactions with single-stranded oligonucleotides by high-performance liquid chromatography.	A novel approach for immobilizing acridine on 5-microns silica gel is described. The acridine moiety is functionalized with a carboxylic acid group at its reactive 9-position and activated, leading to 9-acridinylpropionic acid N-hydroxysuccinimide ester. This derivative is efficiently bound to the silica matrix through a primary aliphatic amine group at the end of a fifteen-atom spacer arm. The chromatographic properties of the final stationary phases, as evaluated with d(T)10 and d(A)10 at various pH values and organic solvent concentrations, resemble those of hydrophobic weak anion exchangers. When a secondary amine group is placed close to the acridine moiety in one of the packings, enhanced binding of the oligodeoxyribonucleotides is observed that goes beyond a purely additive effect.
Coupling of ligands to primary hydroxyl-containing silica for high-performance affinity chromatography. Optimization of conditions.	Silicas of different particle and pore sizes were derivatized with three different silanes. The functionalized silica contained either epoxide, methacrylate or amino groups. These groups were further modified to yield primary hydroxyl functions. Activation of the resultant primary hydroxyl groups for the purpose of chemically coupling proteins was studied with a variety of reagents and optimized for p-nitro-phenyl chloroformate. The effect of pH on the efficiency of coupling proteins (BSA and trypsin) to p-nitrophenyl carbonate-silica was studied in detail. Slightly acidic conditions (pH 6) gave the highest yields. In a dynamic recycling process, bovine pancreatic trypsin inhibitor was immobilized to activated primary hydroxyl-silica packed into a stainless-steel column. The high-performance affinity chromatography purification of trypsin on this column is demonstrated.
High-performance liquid affinity chromatographic separation of mouse monoclonal antibodies with protein A silica.	Protein A, a bacterial cell wall protein found in Staphylococcus aureus, has been widely used for the analysis of immunoglobulins. By attaching protein A to a microparticulate silica support, a rapid and efficient chromatographic sorbent has been created for the separation of monoclonal antibodies. Examples are given of rapid separations (within 10 min) of murine monoclonal antibodies, belonging to various IgG subclasses and including IgG1. The monoclonal antibodies were isolated with a high purity and with 60-90% recovery of activity. The high-performance liquid affinity chromatography technique based on protein A provides a useful method for monitoring monoclonal antibodies in crude samples, such as ascites and cell culture supernatants.
Evaluation of advanced silica packings for the separation of biopolymers by high-performance liquid chromatography. III. Retention and selectivity of proteins and peptides in gradient elution on non-porous monodisperse 1.5-microns reversed-phase silicas.	Following previous studies of the use of non-porous monodisperse 1.5-microns n-octyl- and n-octadecyl-bonded silicas in gradient elution of proteins, this work was aimed at elucidating further the properties of this novel column material for peptide and protein separations in comparison with wide-pore silicas. First, it is demonstrated that with short columns (e.g., 35 X 8 mm I.D.) packed with these non-porous reversed-phase materials, mixtures of small peptides and mixtures of proteins can be very efficiently resolved. When the chain length of the bonded ligand was varied, the retention of a test set of proteins in gradient elution followed the ligand sequence C18 greater than C8 approximately C4 approximately phenyl greater than C2 under constant elution conditions, and the selectivity remained unchanged. Comparison of the S values of these proteins, as determined from evaluation of the log k' vs. phi dependences with non-porous silicas and with a LiChrospher Si 1000 C8 with identical accessible ligand surface areas per unit column volume, indicated lower values for the non-porous materials (k' = capacity factor; phi = molar fraction of organic solvent; S = slope of the plot of log k' vs. phi). The origin of this behaviour is discussed.
Evaluation of advanced silica packings for the separation of biopolymers by high-performance liquid chromatography. IV. Mobile phase and surface-mediated effects on recovery of native proteins in gradient elution on non-porous, monodisperse 1.5-microns reversed-phase silicas.	The reversed-phase chromatography of proteins by gradient elution with acidic, low-ionic-strength aqueous-organic eluents is often associated with losses of the biological activity of the protein. In this study, the enzymatic activities of catalase, horseradish peroxidase and pepsin were examined under static and dynamic column conditions on non-porous, monodisperse 1.5-microns reversed-phase silicas with various n-alkyl ligands. Catalase readily lost its enzymatic activity under the influence of the acidic aqueous-organic eluents in the absence of the reversed-phase packing, whereas peroxidase was partially deactivated as a result of combined mobile phase and stationary phase effects but regained its activity on storage after elution. The enzymatic activity of pepsin was found to be very dependent on the column residence time and on the type of bonded n-alkyl ligand employed.
Evaluation of advanced silica packings for the separation of biopolymers by high-performance liquid chromatography. V. Performance of non-porous monodisperse 1.5-microns bonded silicas in the separation of proteins by hydrophobic-interaction chromatography.	Non-porous monodisperse 1.5-microns silicas were allowed to react with (A) and (B) N-acetylaminopropyltriethoxysilane to generate bonded phases useful in high-performance hydrophobic-interaction chromatography (HIC). Differences in the selectivity were observed between the amide and the ether phase. Peak capacities between 10 and 30 were achieved for several proteins with the amide and ether phase packed into columns of 36 X 8 mm I.D. and elution of the proteins under chromatographic conditions in which the gradient volume, VG, was held constant by varying the gradient time between 20 and 2.5 min and the flow-rate between 0.5 and 4.0 ml/min. The S values derived from the dependences of log k' on the volume fraction of the low ionic strength buffer, phi b, were of the same magnitude as reported for porous HIC silicas and showed a dependence on the molecular weight of the protein. Using these HIC stationary phases based on non-porous 1.5-microns supports, fast separations (less than 5 min) could be carried out with high biological recoveries.
Separation of enantiomeric acids using immobilized acetylquinine as a chiral stationary phase.	Acetylquinine chemically bonded to silica was used as a chiral selector in reversed-phase chromatography for the separation of enantiomers of carboxylic acids and amino acid derivatives, e.g., 2-(4-bromophenoxy)propionic acid, warfarin and N-benzoxycarbonylphenylalanine. An organic modifier (methanol) could be used to regulate the retention without significant influence on the stereoselectivity.
Purification of monoclonal antibodies from ascites using ABx liquid chromatography column.	Murine and rat monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) were purified to 90-95% homogeneity from ascites in a single step using an ABx liquid chromatography column which utilizes a silica-based mixed-mode ion-exchange matrix. The resulting MAbs were highly immunoreactive reflecting the mild conditions used for this procedure. The column was also useful for detecting and separating multiple immunoglobulins present in the same ascites. For one ascites sample, three immunoglobulin species, which apparently differed only in their light chains, were resolved using this column and differed greatly in their immunoreactivity.
Purification and properties of porcine polymorphonuclear cells.	A method for the rapid separation of highly purified populations of porcine polymorphonuclear cells from whole blood is described. Porcine blood, anti-coagulated with EDTA, was layered over a discontinuous Percoll gradient (62.5% and 75%) and then centrifuged at 400 X g for 25 min. This results in the formation of a band of cells at the interface of the two Percoll layers which is greater than 99% granulocytes (93.8 +/- 1.8% neutrophils and 5.3 +/- 1.8% eosinophils) with a 77% recovery. The mononuclear cells remain above the 62.5% Percoll layer, and most erythrocytes pellet to the bottom of the tube. The isolated porcine granulocytes were found to respond to opsonized zymosan, phorbol myristate acetate (20 ng/ml), and the calcium ionophore A23187 (10(-5) M) in chemiluminescence assays with kinetics similar to those of human granulocytes. The porcine cells did not respond to the chemotactic peptide N-formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenalanine (FMLP; 10(-6) M) unlike the human granulocytes which display a very rapid response to FMLP. Both porcine and human granulocytes readily changed shape by elongating and developing pseudopods when exposed to zymosan-activated serum, but only human granulocytes changed on exposure to FMLP. Thus, porcine granulocytes may be rapidly isolated on discontinuous Percoll gradients with little mononuclear cell contamination. Porcine and human PMN have similar oxidative and chemotactic responses, but porcine PMN differ from human granulocytes in the inability of porcine granulocytes to respond to FMLP.
A possible synergism of dietary phosphate and urine-acidifying salts in preventing silica urolithiasis in a rat model.	Using an animal model involving rats fed tetraethylorthosilicate, the minimal effective dietary concentration of ammonium chloride for reduction of silica urolithiasis was determined to be approximately 0.10 equivalents/kg diet. Ammonium sulfate appeared to be only slightly less effective. The lower incidences of urolithiasis were associated with urinary pH less than 7. A subprophylactic concentration (0.067 equivalents/kg diet) of ammonium chloride was factored with three levels of supplemental phosphorus (0, 0.15 and 0.30%) from Na2HPO4 to determine whether the antiurolithic effects of dietary phosphate and urinary-acidifying salts are synergistic. Phosphate had no effect on urinary pH. A 50% urolith incidence occurred in controls; the incidence was 25% (P = 0.08) with 0.15 and 10% (P less than 0.01) with 0.30% phosphorus. Urinary pH was 7.5 in controls compared with approximately 7.2 in rats given the subprophylactic level of ammonium chloride, but ammonium chloride alone had no effect on urolithiasis. However, complete protection from urolithiasis was provided by each of the two levels of phosphorus in combination with ammonium chloride. It is concluded that supplemental dietary phosphorus is most effective for protection against silica urolithiasis under conditions contributing toward urinary acidification due to a possible synergism between dietary phosphorus and urinary acidifying salts.
The preparative isolation of mitochondria from Chinese hamster ovary cells.	A "hybrid" discontinuous gradient consisting of 6% Percoll overlaid on metrizamide separated mitochondria from other organelles in a Chinese hamster ovary cell postnuclear supernatant in a single 15-min centrifugation. The mitochondrial preparation contained about 25% of the mitochondrial marker, cytochrome-c oxidase, in a form that was about 90% latent. Based on the postnuclear supernatant, cytochrome-c oxidase activity was enriched approximately 45-fold. Trace amounts of lysosomal, rough endoplasmic reticular, Golgi, peroxisomal, plasma membrane, and cytosolic markers were found in the preparation. Electron microscopy revealed that the preparation consisted almost exclusively of mitochondria with only minor amounts of contaminating organelles. Analysis of the mitochondrial preparation by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis demonstrated that the mitochondrial preparation had a unique protein profile compared to the postnuclear supernatant and other gradient interfaces. Separation of the mitochondria into membrane and lumenal (matrix) fractions by treatment with 100 mM Na2CO3, pH 11.5, also indicated that the mitochondria were intact; they were rich in lumenal proteins. The data indicate that the mitochondria represent maximally about 2.2% of Chinese hamster ovary cell postnuclear supernatant protein. These isolated mitochondria should prove useful for problems in molecular cell biology.
The heterogeneity of isolated adult rat Leydig cells separated on Percoll density gradients: an immunological, cytochemical, and functional analysis.	Intertubular cells, isolated from adult rat testes by collagenase dispersal under conditions designed to minimize cell damage, were fractionated on Percoll density gradients. In the gradient fractions, there was a close cellular correlation between the presence of 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3 beta HSD), determined by cytochemistry, and other Leydig cell markers (nonspecific esterase, autofluorescence, and an antigen defined by monoclonal antibody LC-1C6). As the reagents for 3 beta HSD cytochemistry are excluded by intact membranes, Leydig cells with damaged plasma membranes were identified by 3 beta HSD reactivity in suspended cell preparations, and the total number of 3 beta HSD-positive (3 beta HSD+) cells in the same preparations was determined after lysis of the cell membrane. Whole cells were differentiated from cytoplasmic fragments by counterstaining with the nuclear dye propidium iodide, and the number of intact Leydig cells in each preparation was determined subsequently by subtracting the number of damaged nucleated 3 beta HSD+ cells from the total number of nucleated 3 beta HSD+ cells. The majority of intact isolated Leydig cells were found in gradient fractions of 1.054-1.096 g/ml density. Acute (3-H) basal and hCG-stimulated testosterone production per intact Leydig cell were dependent upon the concentration of Leydig cells per assay well, indicating that there is cooperativity among Leydig cells in vitro. There was no difference in steroidogenic function among intact Leydig cells from different fractions of the above density gradient range at assay concentrations greater than 10,000 Leydig cells/well. At lower cell concentrations, Leydig cells from gradient fractions of lower density (1.054-1.064 g/ml) produced slightly less testosterone in response to hCG stimulation than Leydig cells from more dense fractions (1.070-1.096 g/ml). Prolonging the exposure of isolated cells to the dispersal conditions caused declines in the apparent buoyant density and basal testosterone and hCG-stimulated cAMP and testosterone production of all Leydig cells, without detectable changes in cell integrity. The data indicate that both the absolute steroidogenic function and the functional heterogeneity of isolated intact Leydig cells are, at least in part, dependent upon the procedures used for their isolation.
Comparative study of eosinophil purification on Nycodenz, Metrizamide and Percoll density gradients.	Studies on the metabolism of human eosinophils and their interaction with helminthic parasites have been hampered by the difficulty in obtaining these granulocytes in sufficient purity and quantity. In this report, we describe for the first time the application of the density medium Nycodenz for the purification of eosinophils from peripheral blood. Nycodenz density gradient centrifugation is compared with Percoll and metrizamide gradient centrifugation with special emphasis on cell yield, purity of cell suspensions, and functional integrity of separated cells. Percoll gradients provide purer preparations (mean value 94 +/- 15%) of eosinophils from blood with moderate eosinophilia than Nycodenz or Metrizamide (58 +/- 29 and 88 +/- 13%, respectively). The recovery rates of eosinophil-enriched fractions were low after Nycodenz centrifugation (29 +/- 19%) in comparison to Metrizamide (60 +/- 21%) or Percoll (70 +/- 16%). Eosinophils (as neutrophils), prepared by the 3 techniques, function metabolically (superoxide anion generation) and in assays measuring phagocytosis (S. aureus, zymosan particles). Percoll gradient isolated eosinophils (as neutrophils) adhere to and immobilize larvae of Onchocerca volvulus.
Subpopulations of MCF7 cells separated by Percoll gradient centrifugation: a model to analyze the heterogeneity of human breast cancer.	Exponentially growing MCF7 human breast cancer cells were separated in Percoll gradients into six different fractions of increasing density (A to F). These fractions could be subcultured and were found to contain different cellular subpopulations as defined by the following criteria: ability to generate other cellular subpopulations; growth rate; DNA synthesis; and expression of estrogen receptors, ras oncogene-encoded protein p21, and carcinoembryonic antigen. One of the minor fractions (E), which contained about 5% of the total cell number, appeared to contain the stem cells, on the basis of the following criteria: (i) its ability to reproduce the other cellular subpopulations, (ii) its high rate of growth and DNA synthesis, and (iii) the inability of the other subpopulations to generate it. The most differentiated subpopulation appeared to be the densest one (F), since it was the slowest growing and appeared to be the end point of the other subpopulations.
Isolation of highly purified rat liver lysosomal membranes using two Percoll gradients.	Normal rat liver lysosomal membranes in the form of membrane vesicles have been purified using Percoll density gradient centrifugation. Lysosomes (density = 1.111) were purified approximately 63 +/- 12-fold (mean +/- standard deviation, n = 5) using a gradient of Percoll made isotonic with sucrose and buffered to pH 7.0. These lysosomes were then exposed to 10 mM methionine methyl ester, pH 7.0, the uptake of which resulted in swelling and breakage of the lysosomes with subsequent vesicle formation. These vesicles (density = 1.056) were further separated from residual mitochondrial and plasma membrane enzyme activities using a second Percoll density gradient. Marker enzyme analysis and electron microscopy indicated that the lysosomal membranes were essentially free of both beta-hexosaminidase, a soluble lysosomal enzyme, and contaminating organelles. The specific activity of lysosomal ATPase in the lysosomal membranes was fourfold greater than in the intact lysosomes.
Functional and physical characteristics of rat Leydig cell populations isolated by metrizamide and Percoll gradient centrifugation.	The physical and functional properties of Leydig cell populations obtained by centrifugation of testicular cells in two different density gradient media, Percoll and Metrizamide, were compared. Percoll-gradient centrifugation yielded two Leydig cell bands (Peak I and Peak II) that were comparable, as to their density and testosterone-producing capacity, to the respective Leydig cell bands, Population I and Population II, isolated in a Metrizamide gradient. The denser Leydig cell band (II) had a greater capacity for testosterone production than the less dense band (I), regardless of the type of gradient used for its isolation. Metrizamide gradient centrifugation separated the majority of germ cells from the "light" (Population I) Leydig cells, whereas in the Percoll gradient, germ cells comigrated with Peak I Leydig cells. Leydig cell separation by Percoll gradients was highly dependent on the presence of Ca2+ and Mg2+ in the medium, while these cations had no effect on the separation of Leydig cells by Metrizamide. In conclusion, Metrizamide gradient centrifugation yielded two Leydig cell populations of similar functional and physical properties to the respective populations isolated in Percoll gradients.
Gas-chromatographic determination of ethanol in blood with 0.53-mm fused-silica open tubular columns.	Several 0.53 mm (i.d.) fused-silica open tubular columns were evaluated for the gas-chromatographic determination of ethanol and other volatiles in blood by both headspace and liquid injection. These columns offer the advantages of fused-silica technology without requiring expensive modification of the instrument for capillary. Methyl silicone columns of various lengths and film thicknesses were examined and also a polyethylene glycol column. The merits of each column are discussed and relative retention times are given.
Gas chromatographic determination of mecarbam and its metabolites mecarboxon, diethoate, and diethoxon in cottonseeds.	A gas chromatographic method is described for determining residues of mecarbam and 3 of its metabolites, mecarboxon, diethoate, and diethoxon, in cottonseeds. For mecarbam analysis, following Soxhlet extraction with chloroform (after blending), the oily extract is partitioned with propylene carbonate and cleaned up on a silica gel column. Metabolites are extracted by the same method, followed by cleanup of mecarboxon on a silica gel column or diethoxon on an alumina column; cleanup of diethoate can be performed on either column. All 4 compounds are determined using a flame photometric detector equipped with a phosphorus filter. Average recoveries for cottonseed samples fortified with 0.03-1.0 ppm mecarbam ranged from 80 to 88%. Average recoveries were 81-88% for mecarboxon and 90-92% for diethoate (alumina column) and diethoxon from samples fortified with 0.05-1.0 ppm. Average recovery of diethoate from samples cleaned up on the silica gel column were 84-88% in the range of 0.05-0.2 ppm. Values obtained for mecarbam residues in field-treated samples are also presented.
Determination of linear alkylbenzenesulphonates, alkylphenol polyethoxylates and nonylphenol in waste water by high-performance liquid chromatography after enrichment on octadecylsilica.	An enrichment procedure involving percolation through octadecylsilica cartridges was applied to the extraction of linear alkylbenzenesulphonates (LASs), alkylphenol polyethoxylates (APEOs) and nonylphenol (NP) from treated and untreated municipal waste waters. The analytes were quantitated by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography with UV-fluorescence detection. Recoveries higher than 80% were obtained from the analysis of biologically treated waste waters. The method allows rapid, precise and reliable determination of LASs and APEOs at concentrations as low as 20 and 4 micrograms l-1, respectively.
Melittin-silica, a high-pressure affinity chromatography resin for calmodulin.	Calmodulin binds the peptide melittin with nanomolar affinity in the presence of Ca2+ but not in its absence. Melittin was coupled to glycidyloxypropyl-silica and used for the high-performance affinity chromatography of calmodulin. Calmodulin was retained by the resin in Ca2+-containing buffers and eluted in Ca2+-free buffers. Columns prepared from resin coupled to melittin in a batch procedure gave superior performance to those prepared under flow. Column capacity was 1.6 mg calmodulin/g resin for resins containing 1.4 mg melittin/g. Melittin-silica selectivity bound calmodulin and did not bind similar proteins such as troponin C or parvalbumin, however, other results suggest that at least one non-calmodulin protein in brain may also bind to the resin. Chromatography of crude pea plant extracts yielded homogeneous calmodulin. By modifying the standard elution protocol and/or using post-column reaction with o-phthalaldehyde, detection of less than 50 ng calmodulin in 7 min total analysis time was demonstrated. The column was used to investigate hormone- and light-induced changes in the calmodulin levels in pea plants.
Adsorption isotherms on high-performance liquid chromatographic sorbents. I. Peptides and nucleic acid constituents on octadecyl-silica.	A miniaturized chromatographic system with short, narrow-bone columns was used for the measurement of adsorption isotherms of peptides and of nucleic acid constituents on octadecyl-silica by frontal chromatography. The range of mobile phase composition was similar to that used in elution chromatography of the substances investigated. Adsorption isotherms were measured under different experimental conditions as far as the mobile phase pH and composition as well as the column temperature are concerned. Most isotherms were concave down, and the data were fitted to both the Langmuir and Jovanovi models, the former yielding a somewhat better fit. Under certain conditions, sigmoidal isotherms were also observed and this behavior was attributed to solvent-mediated conformational changes and molecular stacking. The results shed light on the adsorption behavior of the substances under investigation on octadecyl-silica, the most commonly employed sorbent in reversed-phase chromatography, over a wide range of concentrations. This is of interest in preparative and process-scale chromatography.
Adsorption isotherms on high-performance liquid chromatographic sorbents. II. Proteins on cation exchangers with silica support.	Adsorption isotherms of proteins were measured by frontal chromatography in a miniaturized chromatographic system with short, narrow-bore columns. The adsorbents were microparticulate, macroporous siliceous cation exchangers, used in the high-performance liquid chromatography of proteins, and the range of mobile phase compositions was similar to that used in elution chromatography for their separation. Adsorption of protein on the wetted stainless-steel parts of the system was reduced by coating the metal surface with a hydrophilic polymer layer. The adsorption isotherms of proteins were concave down and, in most cases, well represented by the Langmuir model. However, the data could also be fitted with reasonable accuracy to the isotherm equation by Jovanovi. Although the siliceous cation exchangers were of different provenance, the isotherms of the proteins were similar. Isotherms measured by the shake-flask method were found to be identical with those obtained by frontal chromatography.
Mechanism for erosion of glass-ionomer cements in an acidic buffer solution.	In order to clarify the mechanism for erosion of glass-ionomer cements, we immersed two commercial luting cements in an acidic buffer solution under various conditions. The amounts of F, Al, Si, and Ca eluted from the cement were (1) in proportion to the square root of immersion time, (2) unrelated to shape or volume of the sample, (3) dependent on its surface area, and (4) not affected by shaking of the solution. It was concluded that the dissolution was controlled by the diffusion of those species in the cement matrix, which was influenced by the structure of the matrix and the concentration of H+ ion at the cement surface. The unreacted glass particles near the cement surface were dissolved by the long immersion, and many pores were left in the surface region.
A rapid Percoll technique for the purification of human basophils.	We have refined a rapid single-step Percoll technique to obtain a basophil-enriched mononuclear cell fraction suitable for further purification. Greater than 75% of the total blood basophils were recovered from a blood-Percoll interface at a purity of between 5 and 23%. The contaminating cells were principally lymphocytes with a smaller (20-25%) percentage of monocytes. Further purification using the penicillin affinity column led to the recovery of between 28 and 64% of the total blood basophils at purities ranging from 52 to 92%, a substantial improvement over our earlier protocol. There was also a marked increase in the recovery of basophils from the affinity column over our previous technique, which lead to a moderate (5-10%) increase in overall recovery.
Progression of type II cell hypertrophy and hyperplasia during silica-induced pulmonary inflammation.	Type II cell hyperplasia and hypertrophy were quantitated in the lungs of rats exposed to silica by using intratracheal injection. Hypertrophic type II cells were separated from normal type II cells by means of centrifugal elutriation of cells dispersed from the lungs by using protease. Type II cell hypertrophy was also quantitated, in situ, by measuring cell profile areas in lung sections. As a means of distinguishing between the hyperplastic and hypertrophic responses of type II cells we followed the progression of these two responses as a function of time and of dose. Seven, 14, and 28 days after a single intratracheal injection of silica (10 mg/rat), hypertrophic type II cells accounted for 33, 35, and 57% of the total type II cells recovered from the lungs. In contrast, hypertrophic type II cells accounted for less than 15% of the type II cells from control lungs. The appearance of hypertrophic type II cells was dose-related when examined 2 weeks after dosing; however, after only 1 week, the response of the type II cell appeared independent of dose. The hypertrophic response of type II cells could not be separated from the hyperplastic response according to either dose or time responses. These data support the hypothesis that in the lungs of silica-treated rats, the hypertrophic type II cell may be the proliferative type II cell. In addition, the hypertrophic type II cell appears to underlie the marked increases in surfactant levels seen in silica-treated lungs.
Development of peritoneal fibrosis occurs under the mesothelial cell layer.	This study was carried out in order to find out which part of the peritoneal wall reacts toward silica and produces peritoneal fibrosis. Colloidal silica was injected into the peritoneal cavity of rats to induce chemical peritonitis and frozen sections of the peritoneal wall were stained with specific antibodies toward type I and III collagens and fibronectin. A massive proliferation of granulation tissue was observed between the submesothelial and muscular layers within 48 hr visualized by prominent fibronectin staining. Type III collagen formed lamellar-like structures in the newly formed granulation tissue. The connective tissue reaction was extended into the underlying muscular tissue. Three weeks after silica injection the reactive granulation tissue exceeded the original peritoneum three- to fourfold in thickness. At this stage it contained extended fibrillar structures oriented perpendicular to the surface or muscular layers of the peritoneum. Type I collagen antibody was bound to the superficial cell layer in the control samples and in the early peritonitis whereas the entire granulation tissue was evenly stained at 3 weeks. Type III collagen antibody was bound to the surface layer of the peritoneum, granulation tissue, and perimysial connective tissue throughout the healing period. The results indicate that the peritoneal fibrotic process occurs under the thin peritoneal lining cell layer and on the surface of the muscle layer.
An alternative to conventional shielding for megavoltage therapy rooms.	Dry silica sand as an "in-wall" shielding medium for megavoltage teletherapy rooms is discussed. Shielding considerations, construction techniques, and survey results are presented for a 6-MV facility using sand shielding for both primary and secondary barriers.
Identification of multiple structural species in silicate glasses by 29Si NMR.	Knowledge of the structure of silicate glasses is one key to understanding their chemical and physical properties, as well as those of the high-temperature liquids from which they form. Because first-neighbour ordering into SiO4 tetrahedra is well known, much of the recent discussion about glass structure has concerned intermediate-range order. One of the most fundamental questions that can be posed is the distribution of silicate tetrahedra with n bridging oxygens (shared between two tetrahedra), labelled as 'Qn' (0 less than or equal to n less than or equal to 4). This distribution is probably important in determining the properties of melts and glasses, but considerable controversy exists concerning the identification and quantification of such species. Here I present new evidence from 29Si NMR (nuclear magnetic resonance) spectroscopy that clearly resolves one significant part of this dispute: at least in sodium silicate glasses, a variety of species is present that is greater than that required by composition alone.
Determination of inorganic tin in biological samples by hydride generation-atomic absorption spectrometry after silica gel cleanup.	A method is described for the determination of inorganic tin in biological samples by hydride generation-atomic absorption spectrometry (HG-AAS). A sample is extracted with ethyl acetate after addition of HCl and NaCl. The concentrated extract is passed through a silica gel column. The column is washed with ethanol, water, and 0.2N HCl successively, and then inorganic tin is eluted with 2N HCl and measured by HG-AAS. Recoveries from fish muscle spiked with 0.1 micrograms/g Sn4+ are 78.9 +/- 4.2% (average +/- standard deviation, n = 5). The detection limit is 0.01 micrograms/g as Sn.
Single-laboratory evaluation of EPA method 8080 for determination of chlorinated pesticides and polychlorinated biphenyls in hazardous wastes.	Method 8080, as published in the Second Edition of "Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste," EPA Manual SW-846, has been evaluated in a single-laboratory study. The Florisil procedure recommended in Method 8080 for sample cleanup does not separate organochlorine pesticides (OCPs) from the polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). Consequently, gas chromatographic analysis of OCPs on the packed column recommended in the method may result in false identifications or in no identifications at all when PCBs are present. Therefore, silica gel was substituted for Florisil, a capillary column was substituted for the packed column, and a sulfur cleanup procedure was incorporated in the method. The revised method was evaluated with samples spiked at 3 concentrations. Precision and accuracy indicate that the revised method can be reliably applied to the determination of OCPs and PCBs in liquid and solid matrixes. Detection limits for liquid matrixes range from 0.02 to 0.09 micrograms/L for OCPs and from 0.5 to 0.9 micrograms/L for PCBs. Detection limits for solid matrixes range from 1 to 6 micrograms/kg for OCPs and from 60 to 70 micrograms/kg for PCBs.
Analytical strategy for determination of active site sequences in aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases.	Affinity labelling with radioactive, periodate-oxidized tRNA has been used to investigate the structures of tRNA-binding sites in Escherichia coli aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases. Labelled peptides were isolated by means of a combination of techniques involving chymotryptic digestion of the enzyme, gel filtration, ribonuclease digestion of tRNA, chromatography on a TSK 2000 column and reversed-phase chromatography. An isocratic phenylthiohydantoin identification system has been interfaced to a sequencer, allowing the characterization of modified lysine residues by means of both chromatographic retention and liquid scintillation counting.
Myogenicity in vitro and in vivo of mouse muscle cells separated on discontinuous Percoll gradients.	Mouse muscle cells, obtained by enzymatically disaggregating newborn mouse muscle, were separated on a discontinuous Percoll gradient. The myogenicity in vitro of the resultant cell fractions was examined by counting the percentage of nuclei in myotubes. Myogenicity in vivo was assessed by implanting a cell suspension of one of the allotypes of glucose-6-phosphate isomerase (GPI) into a regenerating skeletal muscle graft of a second GPI allotype: the finding of hybrid GPI indicated that the implanted cells were myogenic. Separation of mouse muscle cells on a discontinuous Percoll gradient gave rise to two myogenic fractions, one of which was more myogenic in vitro than were the unseparated cells and one of which was less myogenic. Both of these fractions were myogenic in vivo. A cell fraction was also produced which was non-myogenic in vitro as well as in vivo. In vitro and in vivo measurements of myogenicity were therefore in broad agreement.
Detection of biospecific interactions using amplified ellipsometry.	Amplified detection of biomolecules and biological interactions using an optical surface technique, ellipsometry, is demonstrated for two biosystems--immunoglobulin G with anti-immunoglobulin G (IgG) and the lectin concanavalin A (Con A) with yeast cells. In order to improve the sensitivity of the ellipsometer signal, an amplifier conjugate is formed by binding the affinity ligand to a 12-nm silica particle which is readily detected by the ellipsometer. Thus by using conjugates of IgG-silica and Con A-silica, amplifications of five to seven times have been obtained enabling detection of less than 20 pg/mm2 of biomolecular material.
Mortality of workers in two Minnesota taconite mining and milling operations.	Mortality during the years 1947 to 1983 was studied in 3,444 men employed for at least 3 months in Minnesota taconite mining operations during the years 1947 to 1958. During 86,307 person-years of observation, there were 801 deaths for a standardized mortality ratio (SMR) of 88 (US white male rates) or 98 (Minnesota rates). The 41 deaths from respiratory cancer were fewer than expected, the SMR being 61 (P less than or equal to .01) (US rates) and 85 (Minnesota rates). There were 25 respiratory cancers 20 or more years after first taconite employment, for an SMR of 57 (P less than or equal to .01) (US rates). SMRs for colon cancer, kidney cancer, and lymphopoietic cancer were elevated, but below the level of statistical significance. There was one death from pleural mesothelioma, 11 years after first taconite employment, in a man with long prior employment as a locomotive operator. The pattern of deaths did not suggest asbestos-related disease in taconite miners and millers.
Percutaneous, in vivo excimer laser angioplasty: results in two experimental animal models.	Pulsed ultraviolet light from an excimer laser was successfully transmitted via conventional fused silica optical fibers and used to accomplish recanalization of stenotic or totally occluded arteries in an intact, flowing blood field of two atherosclerotic animal models. The fibers, 300-600 micron in diameter, were delivered percutaneously in wire-guided multilumen catheters and then used to transmit wavelengths of 308 or 351 nm from excimer lasers with pulse durations of 12 nsec or less. Lesions from 70-100% diameter narrowing, and 0.6 to 5.5 cm in length were successfully recanalized (less than 50% residual diameter narrowing) in eight animals, using 3-4 J/cm2/pulse, 10-50 Hz, and 48-370-sec cumulative exposure. Necropsy examination in six of the eight animals disclosed no signs of thermal injury. Perforations were observed in four of eight animals. Thus, while use of an excimer laser power source did not obviate vascular perforation as a complication of laser angioplasty, these preliminary results indicate that energies of pulsed ultraviolet light sufficient to ablate atherosclerotic plaque can be both transmitted via conventional fused silica optical fibers and used successfully within an intact, flowing blood field. It may therefore be possible to use pulsed ultraviolet light from an excimer laser to accomplish percutaneous ablation of atherosclerotic arterial obstructions in humans.
Preliminary evaluation of a pulsed 2.15-micron laser system for fiberoptic endoscopic surgery.	There is a need for lasers that are compatible with fiberoptic endoscopes and that provide greater cutting precision than currently can be produced by the widely used Nd:YAG (1.06 micron) laser. Recently available lasers that operate in the 2-micron region fill this need. This laser light energy can be transmitted by low OH- silica fibers and has much less tissue penetration than radiation at 1.06 micron. We have been evaluating a prototype solid state laser system that produces pulses of 2.15 microns light that is delivered by a silica based fiberoptic delivery system with negligible transmission losses. This system is based on a thulium-holmium-chromium doped YAG (Tm-Ho-Cr: YAG) rod that lases at 2.15 micron. The laser does not require cryogenic cooling, toxic gases, or custom utilities and should be practical in a clinical environment. In vivo animal testing of this laser confirms that it provides greater ablating precision than does the Nd:YAG laser at 1.06 micron.
Separation of racemic pharmaceuticals by high-performance liquid chromatography on silica gel modified with carbohydrate residues.	Derivatives of 2-amino-2-deoxyglucose covalently connected to aminopropyl-silica gel were used as chiral selectors in the separation of racemic pharmaceuticals. beta-Receptor blockers, adrenergic drugs and compounds with secondary amino functions could be separated after appropriate derivatization.
Isolation and characterization of trophoblast from murine placenta.	A discontinuous density gradient centrifugation method, devised to isolate enriched populations of trophoblast from murine definitive placentae, is described. It is concluded that the isolated adherent cells are trophoblast on the basis of the following characteristics: they are fetally derived, as determined by their donor glucose phosphate isomerase phenotype in embryo transfer experiments; epithelial cells, as shown by the presence of cytokeratin filaments and the absence of vimentin; negative for the stage-specific embryonic antigen-I (SSEA-I); and capable of progesterone secretion. Initially, they grew as individual polygonal cells, tending to form tight confluent monolayers with poorly defined intercellular boundaries. They were mono- or binucleate and increased their nuclear size with time. After two days, giant cells appeared to be formed from binucleated cells by nuclear fusion, and multinucleated cells appeared forming syncytia. Some of these cells also seemed to form giant cells. A low percentage (1 to 10 per cent) of contaminating cells, mainly macrophage-like cells, was observed. The isolated cells were a mixture of alkaline phosphatase- (AP-)positive and AP-negative cells, with some of the latter having phagocytic capacity. All were Fc receptor-negative. The possible identity of these cells in relation to trophoblast in the intact placenta is discussed. This method of isolating and characterizing trophoblast cells from the definitive mouse placenta will be a useful tool for studying the biology and immunology of trophoblast.
Renin granules isolated from rat kidney cortex by continuous colloidal silica (Percoll) density gradient centrifugation.	Renin granules were isolated from rat kidney cortex by a continuous polyvinyl-pyrrolidone-coated colloidal silica (Percoll) density gradient centrifugation. A major peak of renin activity was found at a density of 1.12-1.13 g/ml, and the specific activity of renin in the peak fraction was increased by approximately 70-fold, as compared with that in the kidney cortex homogenate. On the other hand, activities of other reference enzymes, such as succinate dehydrogenase, acid phosphatase and glucose-6-phosphatase, were not detectable in the peak fraction. When the extract of the peak fraction was applied to a pepstatin column, trypsin-activated renin could not be detected in the breakthrough fractions. These results indicate that renin granules of the rat kidney cortex contain only active renin.
Accessibility of thymic cortical lymphocytes to particles translocated from the peritoneal cavity to parathymic lymph nodes.	In an attempt to evaluate the relative effectiveness of barriers protecting thymic cortical lymphocytes from antigens or other macromolecules, mice were given an intraperitoneal (i.p.) or intravenous (i.v.) injection of polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP)-coated silica particles (Percoll), measuring approximately 17 nm in diameter. Pathways of translocation of this material were studied by transmission electron microscopy. Particles were rapidly cleared from the peritoneal cavity, and large quantities appeared in parathymic lymph nodes. From there, small amounts of Percoll reached lymphatics surrounding the thymus and traversed the thymic capsule, preferentially in the area close to the lymph nodes, to enter the cortical parenchyma within less than 2 h. Considerable numbers of cortical thymocytes contained endocytosed particles. At later time intervals after both i.p. and i.v. injection. Percoll was identified within cytoplasmic vesicles of macrophages scattered along cortical capillaries. However, particles given i.v. were never found in intercellular spaces or in the cytoplasm of thymocytes of the thymic cortex. Thus, the lymphoid parenchyma of the thymic cortex is accessible to small particles carried through the capsule with the flux of interstitial fluid. We conclude that the capsule-thymus barrier is less efficient than the blood-thymus barrier.
Density-gradient sedimentation of feline bone marrow cells with polyvinyl-pyrrolidone-coated silica gel.	Feline bone marrow cells were separated based on their density distribution in a continuous polyvinyl-pyrrolidone-coated silica gel density gradient. Morphologic identification of cytocentrifuged preparations at specific densities revealed a progressive increase in density with maturation of the cells within the granulocytic and erythroid series. Segmented eosinophils peaked at 1.084 g/ml, monocytes at 1.07 g/ml, and lymphocytes spanned the density of 1.068 to 1.084 g/ml. Bone marrow samples from 6 healthy specific-pathogen-free cats were separated by the continuous polyvinyl-pyrrolidone-coated silica gel gradient and were studied for progenitor colony formation in methylcellulose. Erythroid colony formation was greatest at a density of 1.084 g/ml and also appeared in cells from 4 cats at a lighter density of 1.016 to 1.05 g/ml. Colony formation in the granulocytic series revealed progenitors throughout the gradient with enrichment at 1.055 g/ml.
DNA polymerase activity in the n.hexadecane-induced hyperkeratotic epidermis.	DNA polymerase activity was determined in hyperkeratotic epidermis of the guinea pig by topical application of n.hexadecane. Epidermal cells were separated by Percoll gradient centrifugation. DNA polymerase alpha activity was higher in the basal cells, but polymerase beta activity was higher in granular cells than in cells from the other layers. The hyperkeratosis was accompanied by an increase in polymerase alpha activity in both the squamous and basal cells. However, polymerase beta activity decreased in the granular cells and was distributed almost uniformly across the epidermis. The distribution pattern of polymerase activities in the hyperkeratotic epidermis was not simply an enhancement of the pattern in normal epidermis.
Urinary transforming growth factors in neoplasia: separation of 125I-labeled transforming growth factor-alpha from epidermal growth factor in human urine.	Purified human epidermal growth factor (hEGF) from urine promotes anchorage-independent cell growth in soft agar medium. This growth is enhanced by transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta), and is specifically inhibited by hEGF antiserum. Transforming growth factors of the alpha type (TGF-alpha), potentially present in normal human urine or urine from tumor-bearing patients, also promote anchorage-independent cell growth and compete with EGF for membrane receptor binding. Consequently, TGF-alpha cannot be distinguished from urinary hEGF by these two functional assays. Therefore, a technique for separation of TGF-alpha and related peptides from urinary EGF based on biochemical characteristics would be useful. Radioiodination of characterized growth factors [mouse EGF (mEGF), hEGF, and rat TGF-alpha (rTGF-alpha)], which were then separately added to human urine, was used to evaluate a resolution scheme that separates TGF-alpha from the high level of background hEGF present in human urine. Commercially available methyl bonded microparticulate silica efficiently adsorbed the 125I-labeled mEGF, 125I-labeled hEGF, and 125I-labeled rTGF-alpha that were added to 24-h human urine samples. Fractional elution with acetonitrile (MeCN) of the adsorbed silica released approximately 70 to 80% of the 125I-labeled mEGF and 125I-labeled hEGF between 25 and 30% MeCN, and over 80% of the 125I-labeled rTGF-alpha between 15 and 25% MeCN, with retention after dialysis of less than 0.2 and 1.7% of the original urinary protein, respectively. Consequently, a single-step enrichment of about 400-fold for mEGF and hEGF, and 50-fold for rTGF-alpha were achieved rapidly. Subsequent Bio-Gel P-10 chromatography indicated that 125I-labeled mEGF and 125I-labeled hEGF eluted later than would be predicted on the basis of their reported molecular weight of approximately 6000, whereas 125I-labeled rTGF-alpha eluted from Bio-Gel P-10 at an approximate molecular weight of 8000 to 9000. 125I-labeled rTGF-alpha bound to carboxymethyl cellulose and eluted at a less acidic pH than did hEGF. On reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography using a linear gradient of 18 to 35% MeCN over 120 min, 125I-labeled rTGF-alpha was comparatively hydrophilic, eluting at 22% MeCN in contrast to the more hydrophobic 125I-labeled hEGF, which eluted at 27% MeCN. These observed biochemical differences between hEGF and TGF-alpha provide a rationale for resolution of these and perhaps other related putative transforming growth factors from bulk urine of tumor-bearing patients.
Studies on surface properties of asbestos. I. Active sites on surface of chrysotile and amphiboles.	The study of the acid-base properties of asbestos reveals a striking analogy between amphiboles and chrysotile. The high sites' density with basic character, evidenced by use of various probe molecules, is very similar for the two asbestos types (chrysotile and crocidolite) and on the same order as the density encountered in some catalysts. Discussion of the surface structure reveals that it is the noncrypting lateral surfaces which possess an electron donor character while the surfaces of the extremities of the fibers with crypting character possess a null or very weakly positive charge.
Studies on surface properties of asbestos. IV. Catalytic role of asbestos in fluorene oxidation.	To determine whether asbestos is a basic catalyst, catalytic oxidation of fluorene to fluorenone in a heterogeneous system was tested. It was shown that oxidation was quantitatively possible on the surface of all basic minerals, such as asbestos (chrysotile and crocidolite) and magnesia, but was not possible with acidic mineral materials such as silica. The effects of different factors are discussed.
Evaluation of silica gel cartridges coated in situ with acidified 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine for sampling aldehydes and ketones in air.	A procedure for coating in situ silica gel in prepacked cartridges with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH) acidified with hydrochloric acid is described. The coated cartridge was compared with a validated DNPH impinger method for sampling organic carbonyl compounds (aldehydes and ketones) in diluted automotive exhaust emissions and in ambient air for subsequent analysis of the DNPH derivatives by high performance liquid chromatography. Qualitative and quantitative data are presented that show that the two sampling devices are equivalent. The coated cartridge is ideal for long-term sampling of carbonyls at sub to low parts-per-billion level in ambient air or for short-term sampling of carbonyls at low ppb to parts-per-million level in diluted automotive exhaust emissions. An unknown degradation product of acrolein has been tentatively identified as x-acrolein. The disappearance of acrolein in the analytical sample matrix correlates quantitatively almost on a mole for mole basis with the growth of x-acrolein. The sum of the concentration of acrolein and x-acrolein appears to be invariant with time.
Separation of phospholipids using a diethylaminoethyl-silica gel column and thin-layer chromatography.	Phospholipids derived from egg yolk are readily separated by DEAE-silica gel column chromatography using stepwise gradient elution. The overall recovery of phospholipids from the column is 85-95% at a loading capacity of 120 mg of lipids per 10 g of DEAE-silica gel. The complete separation of eight phospholipids (phosphatidylcholine, sphingomyelin, lysophosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylinositol, phosphatidylserine and lysophosphatidylserine; 5 micrograms each) is also achieved by one-dimensional DEAE-silica gel thin-layer chromatography with the solvent system chloroform-methanol-water-pyridine-58% ammonia solution (130:55:8:4:4, v/v).
Particle and pore size distributions of investments.	The particle-size distributions of investment powders and the pore-size distributions of set-fired investments were investigated by electrozone size analysis, and by mercury intrusion scanning porosimetry, respectively, for a number of different investments, representing all three types available, namely: the gypsum-, phosphate- and silicate-bonded. The pore volume (V), the pore surface area (S), and their first derivatives with respect to radius, r, dV/dr and dS/dr, were obtained with pressures up to 414 MPa corresponding to spherical pores of 0.0018 micron radius if the Washburn equation is to apply. Results distinguished pores with a range of different sizes. Besides the porosity due to the matrix binder, porosity was also attributable to the refractory components. This latter type of porosity occurred with pore radii below about 0.03 micron, whereas matrix porosity occurred above this pore size. Matrix porosity for the phosphate materials was smallest at about 0.03 to 0.5 micron in radius, followed by the gypsum materials at about 0.3 to 0.6 micron, and by the silicate materials at about 1 to 10 micron. The particle-size distribution of the investment powders may affect both types of porosities, whereas the setting chemistries of the particular investment types may affect matrix porosity, by the generation of gaseous by-products. No major distinctions in pore size and distributions occurred between air-set and hygroscopic-set materials. This study emphasizes that at present, knowledge of the total pore volume only is inadequate for characterizing porosity distribution and hence investment permeability.
Purification of Cryptosporidium oocysts and sporozoites by cesium chloride and Percoll gradients.	The lack of an adequate system for the in vitro cultivation of Cryptosporidium spp. has forced researchers to work on infected feces or tissues. Molecular and immunological analyses of Cryptosporidium stages must be preceded by complex preparatory steps involving the concentration, storage, purification, excystation of oocysts, and purification of sporozoites. This paper describes two new procedures for the purification of Cryptosporidium. The first, consisting of pretreatment of oocysts with sodium hypochlorite followed by concentration using a Percoll gradient, is suitable for nucleic acid analyses. The second, a concentration of untreated oocysts using a Cesium chloride gradient, is suitable for biochemical and immunological studies, but requires "fresh" oocysts.
Separation of blood group A-active oligosaccharides by high-pressure liquid affinity chromatography using a monoclonal antibody bound to concanavalin A silica.	A column for high-pressure liquid affinity chromatography is prepared by binding a murine monoclonal anti-blood group A antibody of IgM isotype to concanavalin A-coated silica particles. The column specifically retards blood group A-active oligosaccharides with the nonreducing immunodominant trisaccharide sequence, GalNAc alpha 1-3(Fuc alpha 1-2)Gal beta 1- ..., and separates three A-active oligosaccharides with different core structures. Retention of the oligosaccharides on the column diminishes with increasing temperatures, permitting thermal elution in the range 25-50 degrees C.
Comparison of sample preparation methods for the high-performance liquid chromatographic analysis of cell culture extracts for triphosphate ribonucleosides and deoxyribonucleosides.	We compared four different procedures for the purification and concentration of nucleoside triphosphates in cell extracts prior to HPLC analysis. Two methods involved precipitation, with either acetonitrile or calcium fluoride. The acetonitrile procedure yielded reasonable recovery and sufficient purity for the subsequent HPLC analysis. The calcium fluoride coprecipitation procedure gave both good recovery and purity; but the recovery was shown to be dependent on the concentration of the nucleoside triphosphates. The other two methods involved small Sep-Pak cartridges. The silica cartridge procedure yielded unfavorable recoveries in periodate-treated cell extracts, apparently due to poor solubility of nucleoside triphosphates in the requisite solvents. The strong anion exchange cartridge procedure yielded both good recovery and purity. This procedure was found to be fast, efficient, and reliable for purifying and concentrating nucleotides in cell extracts.
Aging test and dynamic fatigue test of apatite-wollastonite-containing glass ceramics and dense hydroxyapatite.	The purpose of this study is to examine the changes in mechanical strength of two bioactive ceramics in living tissue. An aging test and dynamic fatigue test were performed using apatite-wollastonite-containing glass ceramics (A X W-GC) and dense hydroxyapatite (HA). Specimens (5 mm X 5 mm X 25 mm, abraded with No. 2000 Al2O3 powder) were implanted into subcutaneous tissue of rats for varying periods of time. The bending strength of aged samples was measured by the three-point loading method. The bending strength of A X W-GC was greater than that of HA (P less than 0.001). There was no reduction in bending strength for both A X W-GC and HA in living tissue. The n value of both A X W-GC and HA did not decrease significantly after implantation as assessed by the results of the dynamic fatigue test according to analysis of covariance. SEM-EPMA showed that Si and Mg contents decreased, Ca content did not change, while P content increased in the surface of A X W-GC. The area where x-ray intensity changed increased moderately after implantation. There were no changes in Ca and P at the interface between HA and soft tissue. In macroscopic and microscopic observations, specimens were found to be encapsulated with a thin layer of connective tissue. Foreign body giant cells, osteoblasts, or osteoclasts were not observed in the soft tissue. There was no bonding between ceramics and soft tissue.
A histological comparison of the tissue interface of bioglass and silica glass.	The objectives of the present article are to confirm the bone bonding phenomenon of Bioglass (BG) developed by Hench et al., and to observe the singularity of tissue reaction to it. BG and nonreactive silica glass (SG) were implanted in the femurs of rabbits and rats. Histological examination revealed that a relatively acellular zone with little inflammation was formed on BG surface at 1 day after implantation. Neither fibrous tissue nor a distinct boundary was observed between BG and bone after 7 days. On the contrary, a moderate postoperative inflammatory reaction was observed on SG at 1 day, and fibrous tissue was observed between SG and bone after 7 days. From these findings, it was confirmed that BG bonded directly with bone. As the relatively acellular zone observed on BG surface at 1 day was replaced by bone after 7 days, the formation of this zone might play an important role in bone-bonding process. Further research should be focused on the mechanism and biological meaning of bone bonding, for this phenomenon can not be explained by the conventional pathological theory of foreign body encapsulation.
Comparative chromatography of lectins and bioactivity recovery of the immunologic hormone leukoregulin on derivatized silica and on cross-linked agarose molecular sizing high-performance liquid chromatographic matrices.	This investigation compares the performance of the new zirconia stabilized silica and cross-linked agarose size-exclusion matrices to Spherogel-TSK 3000 SWG silica in high-performance liquid chromatographic separation of proteins possessing a range of molecular weights present in many lymphokine preparations and in recovery of bioactivity as measured by leukoregulin proliferation inhibitory activity. Retention time versus log molecular weight of protein standards was linear from 12,500 to 290,000 on the agarose and from 32,000 to 290,000 on the other columns. Recovery of leukoregulin proliferation inhibitory activity directed against RPMI 2650 epidermoid carcinoma cells was 90% from the silica, 88% from the agarose and 35% from the zirconia stabilized silica columns.
Preparation of nasopharyngeal secretions for immunofluorescence by one-step centrifugation through Percoll.	A simple method was developed for separation of cells from nasopharyngeal secretion for the diagnosis of respiratory virus infections by immunofluorescence microscopy. The diluted specimen, containing dithiothreitol to break up the mucus, was centrifuged once through a cushion of 20% Percoll (colloidal silica, a density gradient medium), which permitted sedimentation of cells through the cushion, but retained mucus on top of it. The pelleted cells were resuspended, and microscope slides were then prepared by standard techniques. The Percoll centrifugation method was also applicable for sputum and bronchoaveolar lavation specimens. Immunofluorescent antibody staining of nasopharyngeal secretions prepared by the described method was more sensitive than enzyme immunoassay for the detection of respiratory syncytial virus.
Silica gel as transport medium for Corynebacterium diphtheriae under tropical conditions (Indonesia )	Silica gel was confirmed as a useful transport medium for Corynebacterium diphtheriae in the investigation of diphtheria cases in which there is no ready access to laboratory facilities.
Practical aspects of using silufol sheets to analyze fat-soluble vitamins]	The authors studied the mobility of the fat-soluble vitamins, A, D, K1 and beta-carotene in organic solvents and their mixtures on silufol plates, the influence of the chromatography conditions and the chamber saturation with the solvent vapors on the Rf values of fat-soluble vitamins, as well as the rate of beta-carotene tocopherol (vitamin E) and phylloquinone (vitamin K1) destruction under the effect of the day and ultra-violet light. The data obtained are presented. Phylloquinone and carotene proved to be most destroyed, while tocopherol was more resistant under the same conditions. Silufol plates can be used for the control of the production of vitamins, their analysis in varying biological objects, as well as in biochemistry, medicine and pharmaceutics.
Characterization of rapidly labelled rat liver ribonucleic acid showing high affinity for columns of methylated albumin on kieselguhr.	Most of the rapidly labelled RNA from rat liver submitted to column chromatography on methylated albumin on kieselguhr remains tightly bound to the column and can only be recovered by elution with m-ammonia. The tightly bound RNA is composed mainly of DNA-like RNA. The binding capacity is dependent not only on base composition but also on molecular size: the heavier RNA molecules show a greater affinity to the column than do the lower-molecular-weight components. Rapidly labelled mouse liver and Saccharomyces cerevisiae RNA show similar behaviour to rat liver RNA on columns of methylated albumin on kieselguhr.
Control of deoxyribonucleic acid and ribonucleic acid synthesis in pyrimidine-limited Escherichia coli.	The effects of pyrimidine limitation on chromosome replication and the control of ribosomal and transfer ribonucleic acid syntheses were investigated. Chromosome replication was studied by autoradiography of (3)H-thymine pulse-labeled cells. Pyrimidine limitation did not affect the fraction of cells incorporating radioactive thymine during a short pulse, indicating that when growth is limited by the supply of pyrimidine, the time required for chromosome duplication increases in proportion to the time required for cell duplication. Control of ribosomal RNA and transfer RNA syntheses was examined by chromatographing cell extracts on methylated albumin kieselguhr columns. When growth was controlled by carbon-nitrogen limitation, the ratio of tRNA to total RNA remained roughly constant at growth rates above 0.5 doublings per hour. During pyrimidine limitation, however, the control of rRNA synthesis was apparently dissociated from the control of tRNA synthesis: the ratio of tRNA to total RNA increased as the growth rate decreased.
Chromatography of microbial lipids by centrifugation through microparticulate gel.	An improved apparatus and a procedure are described by which the migration of sample components in column chromatography is accelerated by centrifugal force, thereby making it possible to use beds of densely packed gel prepared with ultrafine silica. This technique was used to resolve components of certain lipid mixtures where other methods have failed, and it has been found generally useful as an adjunct to other methods for the fractionation of lipids. Biologically active phosphoglycolipids from Mycobacterium tuberculosis and a phosphatidylglycerol-like substance from Mycoplasma pneumoniae which formed single spots on thin-layer chromatographic plates were each found to contain a major and several minor components by centrifugal chromatography. The method enabled us to isolate individual components of Wax D from M. tuberculosis rather than a spectrum of components. Minor components were resolved which, although present in insufficient quantity to influence results of chemical analyses, may be responsible for biological activity. The apparatus provides an essentially closed system which reduces highly volatile solvents to minimal evaporation during the chromatographic process. Samples are applied in solution and are not allowed to dry on the columns until after separation has been achieved. Consequently, polar, labile microbial lipids can be resolved without the use of harsh reagents which destroy some of their properties. Single components may be harvested by cutting and removing appropriate segments of the larger chromatograms or by eluting them from the columns.
Comparison of media for direct isolation and transport of Shigellae from Fecal specimens.	Xylose-lysine-deoxycholate (XLD) agar, SS agar, and MacConkey agar for isolating shigellae from fecal specimens were compared. XLD agar was superior to both SS agar and MacConkey agar for isolating Shigella sonnei, and both XLD and SS agar were superior to MacConkey agar for isolating S. flexneri. Direct plating of the fecal specimens in the field resulted in a greater yield of shigellae as compared to transporting specimens to the laboratory either in holding media or enrichment broth. Buffered glycerol saline was superior to other transport media evaluated, yielding 83% of shigella isolates when plated within 48 hr as compared to direct plating. The combination of XLD agar and SS agar is recommended for direct isolation of shigellae, and, whenever possible, these solid media should be taken to the bedside and inoculated directly.
Asymmetric template function of microbial deoxyribonucleic acids: transcription of messenger ribonucleic acid.	In Bacillus subtilis and Escherichia coli, pulse-labeled ribonucleic acid (RNA) synthesized during step-down growth hybridized preferentially with the heavy (H) strand of methylated albumin-Kieselguhr-fractionated deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA). At high RNA inputs, the ratio of RNA hybridized with the H strand to that hybridized with the light (L) strand was 8.7 for B. subtilis and 2.0 for E. coli. At high DNA inputs, the H/L hybridization ratio increased by a factor of two. This change in the hybridization ratio was attributable to the fraction of the pulse-labeled RNA which is in stable RNA components. The hybridization peak of pulse-labeled RNA was specifically located in the late-eluting region of the absorbance profile of the H strand. This region was considered to represent the most actively transcribing H strand templates.
Mode of action of a bacteriocin from Serratia marcescens.	The effects of bacteriocin JF246, produced by Serratia marcescens, on the incorporation of labeled leucine and thymidine, the synthesis of beta-galactosidase, the active transport of labeled leucine and alpha-methyl-d-glucoside, and the cellular levels of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) in Escherichia coli were studied. This bacteriocin strongly inhibited the incorporation of leucine and thymidine into protein and deoxyribonucleic acid, respectively, as well as the active transport of leucine. The accumulation of alpha-methyl-d-glucoside, which is mediated by a phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent phosphotransferase system, was not markedly inhibited. The level of ATP in bacteriocin-treated cells rapidly fell to 10 to 15% of the control value. However, the kinetics of inhibition of macromolecular synthesis by various levels of bacteriocin was not related to the kinetics of ATP decline.
Regulation of staphylococcal enterotoxin B: effect of thiamine starvation.	During the transition between the exponential and stationary phases of growth, there was a rapid accumulation of both cell-associated and extracellular enterotoxin B. Extracellular enterotoxin was synthesized until the cells entered the stationary phase during which cell-bound toxin was not detected. The differential rate of toxin synthesis relative to that of total protein synthesis was greater at pH 7.7 than at 6.0. Addition of glucose decreased the differential rate of toxin synthesis. This decrease was greater at pH 7.7 than at 6.0. Addition of pyruvate decreased the differential rate at pH 7.7 but not at 6.0. Analysis of the nongaseous end products of glucose and pyruvate metabolism showed that conditions which favor the oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate also favor the repression of toxin synthesis. Elimination of thiamine from the medium prevented the oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate by Staphylococcus aureus S-6 and partially or completely reversed the repression of toxin synthesis by glucose and pyruvate. In the absence of an added energy source, thiamine starvation caused a decrease in protein synthesis but an increased differential rate of toxin synthesis which was greater at pH 7.7 than at 6.0. In the absence of thiamine, pyruvate was not metabolized but caused a decrease in the rate of protein synthesis. This resulted in a twofold increase in the differential rate of toxin synthesis. Thus, conditions which altered the oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate or decreased the rate of protein synthesis increased the rate of enterotoxin B synthesis.
Four-directional-development thin-layer chromatography of lipids using trimethyl borate.	Solvent mixtures containing trimethyl borate virtually eliminated the pronounced interconversion of 1,2- and 1,3-dipalmitins during their resolution by thin-layer chromatography on Silica Gel G. With trimethyl borate, an average of 1-2% of 1,2-dipalmitin was converted to 1,3-dipalmitin. A four-directional-development TLC procedure incorporating trimethyl borate resolves cholesteryl glucoside, ceramides, monogalactosyl diglyceride, 1- and 2-monopalmitin, palmitic acid, cholesterol, 1,2- and 1,3-dipalmitin, tripalmitin, methyl palmitate, cholesteryl palmitate, beta-carotene and some of its degradation products, squalene, and tetracosane. Digalactosyl diglyceride, phosphatidic acid, phosphatidylglucose, cerebrosides, and other phospholipids remain near the origin. A mixture containing triolein, 1,2- and 1,3-diolein, 1- and 2- monoolein, oleic acid, and cholesterol was resolved in one dimension. A similar series of palmitic-containing neutral lipids was also resolvable in one dimension. These procedures were applied to the TLC of human sera lipids.
Preparation of labeled aflatoxins with high specific activities.	Resting cells of Aspergillus parasiticus ATCC 15517 were used to prepare highly labeled aflatoxins from labeled acetate. High synthetic activity in growing cells was evidenced only during 40 to 70 hr of incubation. Glucose was required for high incorporation efficiency, whereas the concentration of the labeled acetate determined the specific activity of the product. When labeled acetate was continuously added to maintain a concentration near but not exceeding 10 mm, in a culture containing 30 g of glucose per liter, 2% of its labels could be recovered in the purified aflatoxins which have a specific activity more than three times that of the labeled acetate.
Hydrogenation of unsaturated fatty acids by Treponema (Borrelia) strain B 2 5, a rumen spirochete.	The time course of hydrogenation of linoleic acid to trans-11-octadecenoic acid was observed in a growing culture of Treponema (Borrelia) strain B(2)5. A conjugated fatty acid, cis-9, trans-11-octadecadienoic acid, was identified as an intermediate in the process. The isomerase responsible for the conversion of linoleic acid to the conjugated fatty acid was found to be associated with a particulate fraction characterized by a high protein and lipid content in a 2:1 ratio. Optimum pH for isomerase activity was found to be 7.0 in 0.05 m potassium phosphate buffer. No cofactor requirements could be demonstrated for the isomerase. The sulfhydryl inhibiting agents, iodoacetamide, N-ethylmaleimide, and p-chloromercuribenzoate, inhibited isomerase activity. Isomerase activity was also inhibited by the metal chelators, o-phenanthroline, alpha, alpha'-bipyridyl, ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, and 8-hydroxyquinoline. Linoleic (Delta9, 12), linolenic (Delta9, 12, 15), and gamma-linolenic (Delta6, 9, 12) acids served as effective substrates for the isomerase; however, the derivatives of linoleic and linolenic acid did not.
Homology of ribosomal ribonucleic acid diverse bacterial species with Escherichia coli and Bacillus stearothermophilus.	Hybridization competition experiments were used to examine the ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA) homologies of 22 bacteria and 3 higher organisms with Escherichia coli and Bacillus stearothermophilus. Although little or no homology was observed with the higher organisms, the bacteria showed a wide range of homologies. Organisms whose rRNA showed closer homology to E. coli rRNA showed less rRNA homology to B. stearothermophilus rRNA and vice versa.
Pharmacokinetic model for the successive demethylation and biliary secretion of methyl orange in the rat.	1. A one-compartment pharmacokinetic model was developed in which a drug underwent two successive metabolical reactions (for example, metabolism followed by conjugation) and free drug and both metabolites were excreted.2. Techniques were described whereby graphical estimates of the first-order rate constants may be derived from cumulative excretion data on the drug and its metabolites. Computer simulation techniques were used to show that the experimental data permit reasonably accurate estimation of the rate constants of the model by graphical and computer methods.3. Tritiated methyl orange (2 mg) was administered to five groups of six rats with biliary cannulation. The bile produced by each animal was collected at hourly intervals for 6 h and the amounts of methyl orange and its metabolites, 4'sulpho-4-methylaminoazobenzene and 4'sulpho-4-aminoazobenzene, determined by thin layer chromatography and radioactive counting techniques.4. The data were analysed graphically and with an iterative digital computer programme to yield the first-order rate constants for the successive demethylation steps in the metabolism of methyl orange. The removal of the first methyl group had a rate constant of 0.684+/-0.142 h(-1) (+/-S.D.) and the second methyl group 1.00+/-0.302 h(-1). The rate constant for biliary excretion of the free methyl orange was 0.164+/-0.042 h(-1), for the monomethyl derivative 0.672+/-0.461 h(-1), and for the demethylated metabolite 6.413+/-3.222 h(-1).
Fractionation of nuclear and cytoplasmic ribonucleic acids from rat tissues on the methylated albumin--kieselguhr column.	1. The conformation of RNA was found to affect its behaviour on methylated albumin-kieselguhr chromatography. The less regular the secondary structure of RNA, the more tightly it binds to the methylated albumin-kieselguhr column. 2. The presence of various denaturing agents (such as urea or perchlorate) in the medium while RNA was adsorbed on the column increased the resolving power of the technique as exemplified by the separation of rat liver rRNA into two distinct peaks. A special procedure for selective adsorption of the cytoplasmic DNA-like RNA on the preparative scale has been developed. Polyribosomal mRNA (rapidly labelled RNA formed in the presence of small doses of actinomycin D) can also be adsorbed selectively by the column. 3. A type of tissue specificity was detected in nuclear RNA from rat liver, kidney, thymus and spleen by using a modified salt and temperature gradient for the chromatographic fractionation (Lichtenstein, Piker & Shapot, 1967; Shapot, Lichtenstein & Piker, 1967). It was also found that cytoplasmic RNA from the different rat tissues contained no tenaciously bound fraction at all, whereas it constituted about 50% of the nuclear RNA. The problem of the possible biological function of the tenaciously bound fraction is discussed.
Synthesis of 1-(3-deoxy-beta-D-psicofuranosyl)uracil and related compounds.	D-Fructose affords on treatment with cyanamide 2-amino-beta-D-fructofuro[2',3':3,4]-oxazoline which is not isolated but transformed directly by the reaction with ethyl propiolate into O(2,3)-anhydro-2-[beta-D-fructofuranosyl]uracil. This compound is benzoylated to the 1',4',6'-tri-O-benzoyl derivative by the action of benzoyl cyanide and triethylamine. On treatment with hydrogen chloride/dimethylformamide, the latter intermediate is converted to the 1-[1,4,6-tri-O-benzoyl-3-chloro-3-deoxy-beta-D-psicofuranosyl]uracil 1',4',5'-tribenzoate from which the title nucleoside derivative is obtained by methanolysis.
Degradation of oil shale by sulfur-oxidizing bacteria.	Approximately 40% of oil shale can be solubilized by the action of sulfur-oxidizing bacteria. Thiobacillus thiooxidans and Thiobacillus concretivorous are equally effective in solubilization. Continuous leaching experiments show that this process can be completed within 14 days. The growth of Thiobacillus and the production of acid were measured under several conditions. Almost all of the CaMg(CO(3))(2) was removed by this process, leaving a complex of silica and kerogen that could be burned as low-energy fuel. The silica-kerogen complex had not yet been biologically degraded.
Inhibition of expression of HLA-A- and B-antigens in the presence of Percoll]	In monocytes isolated by means of percoll a partial or complete suppression of specific cytotoxic reactivity of HLA-A and B-antigens could be observed when corresponding HLA sera were used. This phenomenon is also evident in monocytes gained by means of adherence and then resuspended in percoll. The same is true in lymphocytes resuspended in percoll and even occasionally if a mixture of complement with percoll is used in the cytotoxic test or if percoll is being added in the course of the second phase of the test. After washing the blood elements thrice with barbital buffer and resuspension in the same buffer, blood cells will reveal a normal expressivity of HLA-A and B-antigens. From the investigations carried out percoll may be concluded to inhibit HLA-A and B-antigens. The extent of percoll influence will depend on the concentration of percoll solutions and the titre of HLA serum. A hypothesis which might explain the inhibitory influence of percoll is discussed.
Silicates: non-specific adsorbents in purification of water from viruses.	Amorphous silicates having small particles with large surface area, were found to have high non-specific adsorption capacity. Escherichia coli T4 bacteriophage was used as a model in this research. Investigations have shown an adsorption capacity of up to 99% on different tested commercially available silicates. Optimal conditions for the adsorption of T4 bacteriophage on various silicates were determined. Amorphous silicates may be used in purification of water from viral contaminants. A silicate-containing model unit for filtration by adsorption of viruses is described.
A simple and fast method for the isolation of basolateral plasma membranes from rat small-intestinal epithelial cells.	A method was developed for the analytical and preparative isolation of basolateral plasma membranes from rat small intestine. They were separated on a self-orientating Percoll (modified colloidal silica) gradient starting with a heavy microsomal-membrane fraction and involving centrifugation at 48,000 g for 1 h. (Na+ + K+)-stimulated ATPase activity, used as a marker enzyme for the basolateral plasma membrane, is enriched 20-fold compared with that found in the homogenate of isolated intestinal epithelial cells.
Separation of human bone marrow cells in density gradients of polyvinylpyrrolidone coated silica gel (Percoll).	A simple and highly reproducible method is described for separation and density distribution analysis of human bone marrow cells in continuous density gradients of polyvinylpyrrolidone coated silica gel (Percoll). Colony and cluster forming cells in agar separated from the bulk of cells and peaked at densities of 1.063-1.064 g/ml. The enrichment of clonogenic cells was approximately 10 times and recovery varied between 41-321%. The overall recovery of cells was 80% (60-94%). Density distribution analysis of morphologically identifiable cells demonstrated the progressive increase in density with maturation of cells within the granulocytic series: myeloblasts peaked at 1.0624 g/ml, promyelocytes at 1.0734 g/ml, myelocytes at 1.0776 g/ml, metamyelocytes at 1.0799 g/ml and mature neutrophils at 1.0864 g/ml. The eosinophil had the highest density, 1.0904 g/ml, of all cells analyzed. Monocytes and lymphocytes peaked at 1.0661 and 1.0681 g/ml respectively. The light density shift of clonogenic cells of AML and CML reported by other authors was confirmed.
Isolation and characterization of plasma membranes from krebs II ascite cells using Percoll gradient.	1. Plasma membranes were isolated from Krebs II ascite cells grown in the mouse. Cells were disrupted by nitrogen cavitation in an isotonic alkaline buffer containing magnesium and ATP. Isolation was performed in an alkaline-buffered self-generating gradient of Percoll with an angular rotor. At each step of the preparation, the pH appeared as the critical aspect of our procedure. 2. External membrane markers were concanavalin A and 5'-nucleotidase (EC 3.1.3.5). They reached a relative specific activity of 10, whereas this value was only of 0.7 for the endoplasmic reticulum marker, NADH dehydrogenase (EC 1.6.99.3). 3. Plasma membrane from 4 ml packed cells were isolated within 1 h after homogenization with good yield: 50% and 67% of total [3H]concanavalin A and 5'-nucleotidase, respectively, were recovered in the two plasma membrane fractions. 4. Electron microscopy examination showed the presence of vesicles of different sizes devoid of other structural contaminants. 5. Using the specific binding of concanavalin A to the external cell membrane, it was calculated that about 50% of the total cell phospholipid and 10% protein are located in the plasma membrane. Their sphingomyelin content is much higher than in the whole cell, in contrast to phosphatidylinositol, known as a more specific endoplasmic reticulum phospholipid.
High pressure liquid chromatographic determination of aflatoxins in peanut butter using a silica gel-packed flowcell for fluorescence detection.	A high pressure liquid chromatographic method has been developed for determining aflatoxins B1, B2, G1, and G2 in peanut butter. The method is based on extraction with acidified aqueous methanol, partition of the aflatoxin into methylene chloride, and purification of the extract on a 2 g silica gel column. The extracted aflatoxins are resolved on a microparticulate (10 micrometer) porous silica gel column in ca 10 min with a water-washed chloroform-cyclohexane-acetonitrile solvent that contains 2% isopropanol. The fluorescence detection system determines aflatoxins B1, B2, G1, and G2 at low levels, i.e., 0.25 ppb B1, 0.5 ppb G1, and 0.2 ppb B2 and G2. Multiple assays of 5 samples of naturally contaminated peanut butters containing total aflatoxins (B1 + B2 + G1 + G2) at levels of 1, 2, 3, 9, and 17 ppb gave intralaboratory coefficients of variation of 7, 4, 4, 11, and 3%, respectively. Samples spiked at levels of 5, 9, and 17 ppb total aflatoxins showed recoveries of 79, 81, and 81%, respectively.
Surface enhancement of sporulation and manganese oxidation by a marine bacillus.	In a seawater medium containing 0.005% yeast extract and 0.005% peptone, a marine bacillus, SG-1, sporulated only when associated with solid surfaces. The spores (rather than the vegetative cells) were responsible for the oxidation of manganese, and the degree of sporulation was determined by the surface area available rather than by the chemical nature of the clay or silica surface used.
High-performance liquid affinity chromatography on silica-bound alcohol dehydrogenase.	Horse liver alcohol dehydrogenase was immobilized on glycerylpropyl-silica (10 micron, 1000-A pores) activated with 2,2,2-trifluoroethanesulfonyl chloride (tresyl chloride). The coupling and activity yield was almost 100%. The coenzyme-binding sites were equivalent and virtually unaffected by the immobilization process, as judged from Scatchard plots and active-site titrations. The silica-bound enzyme, packed in steel columns, was integrated with HPLC equipment and then successfully used for chromatography of adenine nucleosides, adenine nucleotides, and triazine dyes. Dissociation constants were calculated from chromatographic data and found to correspond well with literature values. The dissociation constants for a number of nucleotide derivatives with potential application in affinity chromatography were also determined. The spaces were found to affect the binding strength of the nucleotides in a qualitatively predictable way. Theoretical plate heights were calculated and found to be in the range 0.01 to 0.1 cm. Attempts to correlate peak widths with the rate constants for the binary complexes involved were only partially successful.
A simple and rapid procedure for the purification of plasmid DNA using reverse-phase C18 silica beads.	A simple and efficient procedure for the rapid isolation of plasmid DNA free of chromosomal DNA and with only minor contamination with RNA is described. The protocol is a modification of the boiling method described by Holmes and Quigley [(1981) Anal. Biochem. 114, 193-197.] and utilizes C18 reverse-phase silica beads for final concentration and purification of plasmid DNA. The entire procedure can be carried out in 1 day and does not require the use of phenol or cesium chloride gradients, which require considerable labor and may sometimes cause nicking and lower recoveries of supercoiled DNA. The plasmid DNA obtained by this method retains biological activity, is supercoiled, and is suitable for restriction and DNA sequence analysis.
A micromethod for the quantitation of cellular proteins in Percoll with the Coomassie brilliant blue dye-binding assay.	A simple procedure for the determination of cellular proteins in Percoll-containing samples is described. Percoll precipitated when particulate proteins were solubilized by dilution of the samples in a NaOH-Triton X-100 mixture. After centrifugation at high speed (12,000g), the supernatant was assayed for proteins with the Coomassie brilliant blue dye-binding assay. With an automatic spectrophotometer, 50-microliter aliquots gave a linear response between 0 and 3 micrograms of bovine serum albumin. After a fivefold dilution in the alkali-detergent mixture, proteins in samples containing up to at least 60% Percoll can be accurately quantitated on a standard curve prepared in the absence of Percoll. Because the sensitivity of the assay was better than 100 ng, the procedure outlined in this paper can also be used as a general protein micromethod.
SUVA (Swiss Accident Insurance Fund) and silicosis. Silicosis in Switzerland. Development of technological dust control]	In Switzerland the technical measures against quartz dust started in 1948 when wet drilling was compulsoryly introduced, initially in underground mining. The miners using the first wet drilling machines had serious problems with water, and only with the introduction of carriage drilling machines in 1963 did the method fully break through. Dust caused by blasting operations and by loading of the resultant material was limited by ventilation and sprinkling of water. In 1966 the first full-face cutting machines were used, and it was necessary to install a dust chamber behind the drill from which dust could be taken to a dust arrester. The problem of dust limitation when using boom cutters at sectional areas of more than 20 sq. meters without a pilot tunnel has not been resolved. Since 1970, dust in quarries and stone-cutter workshops has been successfully combated by the use of exhaust pumps in combination with filters. The use of quartz sand to clean metal pieces (sandblast) was forbidden in 1960. Today, materials of the same value, but quartz-free, are available. In foundries, dust production can be limited by continuous automation and installation of exhaust pumps in moulding units. For more than 30 years now the technical equipment has been available for successful prevention of quartz dust emissions. However, at some plants it is still difficult to persuade the personnel to use the protective equipment.
Separation of human T-lymphocyte colony-forming cells on Percoll gradients.	Formation of T-lymphocyte colonies in semi-solid agar by mitogen-stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells is a sensitive indicator of a proliferative response. The exact identity of the T-lymphocyte colony forming cell (T-CFC) is not known, nor is it known if more than one T-CFC exists. It is possible that different subsets of mononuclear cells, each responding to diverse mitogens, give rise to different T-CFC. In this study, we separated mononuclear cells into seven subsets based on their density utilizing Percoll at concentrations of 40% to 55%. Following separation, the cells from each fraction were stimulated by phytohemagglutinin (PHA), pokeweed mitogen (PWM), concanavalin A (Con A), or staphylococcal protein A (SPA), and cultured in a semi-solid agar system. Each fraction was fully characterized by immunologic and cytochemical cell markers. Monocytes were found in the light density fraction, whereas T-lymphocytes and large granular lymphocytes were predominantly seen in the heavier density fractions. B lymphocytes were concentrated in the middle density fractions. Cells from fraction 1 (the lightest density fraction) formed significantly more T-cell colonies when stimulated by PHA than did fractions 4, 5, 6, or 7. This effect was not observed when other mitogens were used. We conclude that mononuclear cells can be separated into enriched cell subpopulations by Percoll fractionation and that PHA-stimulated T-CFC may also be enriched by Percoll fractionation. In addition, the data suggest that different subsets of T-CFC may exist.
Automated gas chromatographic analysis of pesticide residues in food samples by means of fused-silica capillary columns and data processing.	A conventional gas chromatograph with one system for split and splitless injection and one on-column injection system for fused-silica capillary columns and the two selective nitrogen-phosphorus and electron-capture detectors is applied to pesticide residue analysis in food samples. The gas chromatograph is equipped with a two-channel data processor that can be programmed with BASIC. Additionally an autosampler is used with the splitless injector. This automated injection system is connected to a 25-m methylsilicone fused-silica column which is coupled via an effluent splitter parallel to both detectors and used for screening in routine analysis. Calibration is performed on this column by means of three calibration test mixtures which include three internal standards. All compounds are calibrated on both detectors in parallel and the response calculated as an additional identification parameter. After the analysis of a of food samples together with the calibration mixture a report is plotted, containing all pesticide residues which may be present in the samples and their tentative quantities. The final confirmation is achieved on the second column, coated with methylphenyl-silicone phase, connected to the on-column injector.
Rapid, economical qualitative method for separation of aflatoxins B-1, B-2 & G-1, G-2 by dry column chromatography.	A good correlation of four components of aflatoxins was accomplished by using the dry column chromatography method. The decolorization process of interfering substances, by 0.01 N KOH and defatting the extract with petroleum ether yields a clean residue for DCC separation. It is clear that the dry column chromatography is a very simple and time-saving procedure for separation of aflatoxins. DCC columns are more economical than precoated 'thick layer' preparative plates and, in DCC, no large developing tanks need to be used. Hazards associated with the use of large volumes of flammable solvents are greatly reduced.
Rapid synthesis of long-chain deoxyribooligonucleotides by the N-methylimidazolide phosphotriester method.	A modified phosphotriester method has been employed for the efficient chemical synthesis of long-chain deoxyribooligonucleotides. During the course of this work, a general and rapid procedure was developed for the preparation of 24-62-mers in solution. Preparative reversed phase column chromatography on silanized silica gel was used to purify triester intermediates starting from 10-mers. The rapid synthesis of 32-mer and 42-mer on glass and silica gel supports using suitably protected 2-8-mer blocks as coupling units has been also accomplished. In particular, a convenient procedure for the solid-phase synthesis of oligonucleotide blocks bearing 3'-terminal phosphodiester groups is described.
Subpopulations of mouse resident peritoneal macrophages fractionated on Percoll gradients show differences in cell size, lectin binding and antigen expression suggestive of different stages of maturation.	Aiming the identification of macrophage heterogeneity, mouse resident peritoneal cells were fractionated on discontinuous Percoll gradients into six discrete fractions (0, 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 in order of increasing density). All six fractions and the total population were characterized by light and electron microscopy, and flow cytometry. The least dense fraction (0) had a low viability (44%); fractions 4 and 5 had a low percentage of macrophages. Light microscopy and flow cytometry of macrophage-enriched fractions 1, 2 and 3 showed an inverse correlation between diameter and cell density, as well as suitable differences in lectin binding to the macrophages of each fraction. The surface of macrophages from fraction 1 had more sialyl residues (higher binding of the lectin LFA), less galactosyl residues (lower binding of the lectin PNA) and expressed more receptors for the antibodies M1/70 (Mac-1) and F4/80; fraction 3 had an opposite binding behavior for the lectins and expressed fewer receptors for both antibodies; fraction 2 had an intermediate behavior for both parameters. Binding of the lectins Con A and HPA showed slight differences, whereas UEA I did not present a detectable difference among the fractions analyzed. These findings suggest that the macrophage heterogeneity achieved by the gradient separation of resident peritoneal cells could be explained by different stages of macrophage maturation.
Modulation of the growth of hematopoietic human stem cells by growth factors: comparison of umbilical cord blood with bone marrow.	The growth of cord blood and bone marrow myeloid mononuclear cells in response to single and multiple growth factors has been examined. Single factors such as IL-3, IL-6, GM-CSF, and stem cell factor did not optimally stimulate growth of cord blood CFU-GM. However a synergistic stimulation was observed when the factors were combined. This effect was seen in both the presence and absence of added fetal calf serum.
Bonding of resin composites to resin-modified glass ionomers.	To evaluate the bonding between resin composites and resin-modified glass ionomer restorative materials.
Neonatal rat islets of Langerhans and fetal rat pancreas. Isolation, immunohistochemical, functional, and autoradiographic evaluation.	The aim of this study was to develop an optimal isolation technique for neonatal rat islets of Langerhans, to perform functional evaluation in vitro, to evaluate immunohistochemically isolated rat islets and fetal rat pancreata after a variable period of culture, and to study growth potentials by means of autoradiography. The islets were isolated using minor modifications of standard procedures including collagenase and DNase. Islets were separated on a discontinuous Percoll gradient. The maximum yield of islets amounted to 240 per pancreas. Fetal pancreata from rats were cultured under similar conditions as neonatal islets to compare their insulin secretory capacity after different periods of culture. The insulin secretion increased gradually, and isolated islets achieved a similar secretion potential to adult rat islets. The mitotic activity of both islets and fetal pancreata was confirmed using tritiated thymidine. The isolation procedure was found suitable for producing well-functioning islets, which could be kept in culture for a period of about 1 month without deterioration in their insulin secretory capacity. The gradual increase in insulin secretory capacity of islets and fetal pancreata was due, in part, to hyperplasia and not just hypertrophia. Autoradiographical evaluation revealed a high mitotic activity after culture, in particular of fetal pancreata. Fetal pancreata cultured for about 10 days showed a phenomenon of budding endocrine cells at the organ surface. A high mitotic activity was found in these buds.
Bone-bonding behavior of three heat-treated silica gels implanted in mature rabbit bone.	Silica gel has been reported to induce apatite nucleation on its surface in vitro and it can act as a stimulant that induces formation of chemical apatite (Ca-P) layers on the surfaces of bioactive glass-ceramics. In this study, apatite formation in response to and the bone-bonding behavior of silica gels implanted in the tibiae of mature rabbits were studied. Implants were made from three silica gels treated at 400, 800, and 1000 degrees C, and the effects of such heat treatment on the above parameters were investigated. The silica gel was made by hydrolysis and polycondensation of tetraethoxysilane in aqueous solution containing polyethylene glycol. Rectangular implants (15 mm x 10 mm x 2 mm) of each heat-treated silica gel were implanted into both tibial bones of mature male rabbits, which were killed 4 or 8 weeks after implantation, and the tibiae containing the implants were dissected out. The bone-implant interfaces were investigated using Giemsa surface staining, contact microradiography, scanning electron microscopy-electron probe microanalysis, and X-ray diffraction. Histologically, no bonding of bone to any of the silica gels was observed at any time postimplantation. Soft tissue was observed at the bone-silica gel interface, but there were no giant foreign body or inflammatory cells. A Ca-P-rich layer was observed only on small areas of the surfaces of the silica gels treated at 400 and 800 degrees C 4 and 8 weeks after implantation. X-ray diffraction analysis confirmed the presence of hydroxyapatite in these Ca-P-rich layers.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Performance of amino-silylated fused-silica capillaries for the separation of enkephalin-related peptides by capillary zone electrophoresis and micellar electrokinetic chromatography.	Enkephalin-related peptides were separated at low pH in a capillary with covalently bonded aminopropyl groups. The peptides are electrostatically repelled from the capillary surface and much higher efficiencies and faster separations were achieved compared to separations using uncoated capillaries. At low pH the amino groups are protonated, which results in reversed electroosmosis. The influence of voltage and ionic strength on the mobility and the separation efficiency was studied. The repeatability of migration times within one day was very good with relative standard deviations of 0.3-0.7%. Increasing the pH decreased the electroosmosis, eventually turning towards the cathode in the pH range 5-6; the separation performance, however, was lower at higher pH. Neutral and anionic micellar agents were added to the background electrolyte at different concentrations; the enkephalins had weak association with the neutral micellar agents but were distributed to the anionic taurodeoxycholic acid (TDC) micelles, giving rise to changes in separation selectivities. Very high efficiencies were obtained for peptides with a low distribution to the TDC micelles, while the efficiencies were impaired for those with a strong association with the micelles, which may indicate a slow mass transfer in the association process.
Fused-silica capillaries with surface-bound dextran layer crosslinked with diepoxypolyethylene glycol for capillary electrophoresis of biological substances at reduced electroosmotic flow.	This report is concerned with the introduction of novel surface modification involving the covalent attachment of branched, high molecular weight dextrans and subsequent crosslinking with polyether chains on the inner surface of fused silica capillaries with the aim of producing hydrophilic capillaries with reduced electroosmotic flow (EOF). Three different molecular mass dextrans, namely 45, 71 or 150 kDa were covalently attached to the capillary surface, and subsequently crosslinked with diepoxypolyethylene glycol (PEG). This chemistry produced stable coating over a wide range of conditions including high and low pH aqueous solutions. Moreover, the various dextran-PEG-coated capillaries exhibited reduced electroosmotic flow. These features of the dextran-PEG coatings were useful for the separations of basic and acidic proteins, and provided high resolution separation for closely related acidic monosaccharides and sialooligosaccharides.
N,N,N',N'-tetramethyl-1,3-butanediamine as effective running electrolyte additive for efficient electrophoretic separation of basic proteins in bare fused-silica capillaries.	The effect of N,N,N',N'-tetramethyl-1,3-butanediamine (TMBD) in the running electrolyte on the electroosmotic flow and the migration behavior of four standard basic proteins in bare fused-silica capillaries was examined at pH 4.0, 5.5, and 6.5. Depending on the electrolyte pH and additive concentration the electroosmotic flow was either cathodic or anodic. A similar Langmuirian-type dependence of the electroosmotic flow on the concentration of TMBD in the running electrolyte was found at the three experimented pH values, which may be indicative of the specific adsorption of the additive in the immobilized region of the electric double layer at the interface between the capillary wall and the electrolyte solution. Electrophoretic separations of the four standard basic proteins performed at the three above pH values, showed well-resolved, efficient and symmetric peaks, demonstrating the utility of this additive for protein electrophoresis in bare fused-silica capillaries. The variations in separation efficiency, peak capacity, resolution and reproducibility of migration times as a function of the additive concentration at pH 6.5 were also examined.
Quantitative analysis of major whey proteins by capillary electrophoresis using uncoated capillaries.	A method that allows separation and quantitation of the main whey proteins by capillary electrophoresis using uncoated capillaries is proposed. Separations are performed using 100 mM borate buffer, pH 8.2, containing 30 mM sodium sulfate. The use of high pH and high ionic strength buffer reduces adsorption of proteins on the capillary wall, making their separation possible. Reproducibility of migration times and areas of peaks are improved by optimizing the capillary equilibration protocol and by using an internal standard. Relative standard deviations ranging between 0.74 and 1.03% for migration times and 2.14 to 5.23% for areas of major peaks are obtained. Detection limits equal to or lower than 0.5 mg/100 mL are achieved. Linear relationships of peak area versus concentration have been used to quantitate bovine serum albumin (BSA), alpha-LA (alpha-lactalbumin), beta-LG A (beta-lactoglobulin A) and beta-LG B (beta-lactoglobulin B) in cow's milk subjected to different thermal treatments. Electrophoretic profiles of these milk samples show peaks from other peptides besides those from main proteins. Characteristic patterns for whey from different species are obtained.
Evaluation of the role of reactive oxygen species in male infertility.	Reactive oxygen species (ROS) production from spermatozoa has been measured by chemiluminescence in the two fractions of a Percoll gradient column (47 and 90%). Chemiluminescent signals were recorded in each fraction after the addition of luminol and horse-radish peroxidase (basal state), and after stimulation with formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine and phorbol ester (PMA). Oligozoospermic samples show a higher rate of ROS production than the normozoospermic samples in both fractions of Percoll. Also, ROS were generated at a higher rate by asthenozoospermic samples in the 90% Percoll fraction than by normal samples after stimulation with PMA. Our data confirm that fact that white blood cells play a major role in the production of ROS, even after purification on a Percoll gradient. Immunological cases were also found to be associated with an increased production of ROS, which may be caused by the same underlying pathological condition responsible for the production of the antibodies. Repeated centrifugation of the samples triggers a burst of ROS in excess of that produced after Percoll preparation. In addition, superoxide dismutase activity was found to be significantly increased in cases with an elevated production of ROS. It is concluded that measuring the ROS generation by semen may yield useful information on the functional capacity of spermatozoa, which may be used to improve the success of male infertility management.
Comparative analysis of motility characteristics of Percoll-selected spermatozoa populations from fresh and cryopreserved semen.	The proportion and quality of motility of spermatozoa in normozoospermic ejaculates were assessed using computer-assisted semen analysis. The ejaculate was split and the motility re-assessed following separation on a Percoll gradient with or without cryomedium and cryopreservation. Cryopreservation caused a significant decrease in the proportion of motile spermatozoa and in their velocity and amplitude of lateral head displacement. The initial decrease in the proportion of motile spermatozoa was found to be in part an effect of the cryomedium. The use of Percoll gradient separation did not initially change these effects but after 4 h incubation differences in velocity and amplitude of lateral head displacement between samples were no longer evident. Percoll-selected, cryopreserved spermatozoa had both a stable proportion of motile spermatozoa and a stable velocity for at least 48 h, whereas in fresh spermatozoa populations, similarly separated using Percoll, the proportion of motile spermatozoa had decreased by 24 h and the velocity was lower at 48 h. Percoll preparation is an effective method for the selection of motile spermatozoa from cryopreserved semen which, after a short incubation, have similar motility characteristics to fresh spermatozoa.
Introduction of luminol-dependent chemiluminescence as a method to study silica inflammation in the tissue and phagocytic cells of rat lung.	The inhalation of silica has been shown to produce a dramatic inflammatory and toxic response within the lungs of humans and laboratory animals. A variety of cellular and biochemical parameters are used to assess the silica-induced lung injury. The purpose of this paper is to introduce the use of luminol-dependent chemiluminescence as a new method to study inflammation in both phagocytic cells and lung tissue recovered from silica-exposed animals. Chemiluminescence, or the emission of light, accompanies the release of reactive forms of oxygen when phagocytic cells are challenged. In this study, male Fischer 344 rats were intratracheally instilled with either silica (10 mg/100 g bw) or saline vehicle. One day after the instillations, a marked increase in the chemiluminescence was observed in the lung tissue and bronchoalveolar lavage cells recovered from the silica-treated animals when compared with the saline controls. The light reaction was markedly decreased by either superoxide dismutase of N-nitro-arginine methyl ester hydrochloride. Superoxide dismutase is involved in the enzymatic breakdown of superoxide anion, while N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester hydrocholoride, a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, prevents the formation of nitric oxide. When superoxide anion and nitric oxide react, they form the highly oxidizing substance peroxynitrite. This study then implicates peroxynitrite as an agent that may be responsible for some of the oxidant lung injury that is associated with silica exposure. The use of luminol-dependent chemiluminescence may prove valuable as a method to measure the earliest events in the inflammatory process, and may be an adjunct in studying the mechanisms that produce inflammation.
A rodent model for hemoglobin switching utilizing high performance liquid chromatography.	It has long been recognized that a treatment for beta hemoglobin chain anomalies could result if a way to reverse the Hb F to Hb A switch in humans were found. Studies of hemoglobin switching have been hampered by the fact that small animals normally used in the laboratory do not have a true Hb F. However, several small animal models which take advantage of a switch in minor beta chain proportions in certain strains of inbred mice and rats have been proposed and used. The use of these models has suffered from what, until now, could be considered technically demanding, time-consuming methodologies. In this study we report an effective, rapid and technically streamlined model of hemoglobin switching utilizing Fisher 344 rats and high performance liquid chromatography with a weakly cationic column.
Silica gel radioimmunoassay for myelin basic protein.	1. A radioimmunoassay which relies upon the capacity of silica gel to absorb free human basic protein of myelin (BP) is described. 2. Reagents involved in the assay include unlabelled BP, I-BP, and rabbit anti-BP. The assay is performed in excess normal rabbit serum, and uses 3-4% silica gel for absorption of free I-BP. 3. The assay is simple, reproducible and not particularly time-consuming. It is capable of detecting BP at a level of 1-10 or more nanograms in samples containing varying amounts of serum. The assay is thus highly suitable as a routine test in clinical laboratories interested in detecting BP in cerebrospinal fluid in patients with suspected or proven demyelination.
Effect of chemical fertilizers on the transport of Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Salmonella infantis through sand columns.	Five commercial fertilizers, Amfos, ammonium sulfate, Kamex, Kieserit and NPK affected the transport of Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Salmonella infantis in sand columns. The percentage of cells transported through and without fertilizers during a 2-h period was species-dependent (0.56 for S. infantis, 3.1 for E. coli and 12.4 for P. aeruginosa). The cell transport was enhanced by Kamex for all strains tested, whereas Amfos was found to decrease the transport of E. coli and S. infantis cells. A mathematical model revealed a relationship between the transport of cells and the pH of the sand columns with fertilizers. Columns in which the pH was decreased by the fertilizers exhibited a higher retention of cells. This points to the existence of physico-chemical surface interactions between cells and sand particles.
Effect of aging on microleakage of restorative systems.	This study evaluated the sealing properties of AP.H/Prisma Universal Bond 3, Z100/Scotchbond MultiPurpose, AP.H/Imperva Bond, Charisma/Denthesive, Bisfil M/All-Bond 2, resin composite/dentin adhesive systems and Fuji II LC light-cured glass ionomer, in Class V preparations following 6 months of storage in a 37 degrees C water bath. The Class V preparations extended just beyond the cemento-enamel junction of extracted human molars. The restored teeth were placed in 37 degrees C water for 24 hours and then thermally stressed for 100 temperature cycles. Half of the specimens were tested for microleakage at this time. The other specimens were returned to water storage and thermally stressed every 30 days during the following 6 months and then assessed for microleakage by dye penetration. AP.H/Imperva Bond, Z100/Scotchbond Multi-Purpose and Fuji II LC were not affected by the storage, while AP.H/Prisma Universal Bond 3, Charisma/Denthesive and Bisfil M/All-Bond 2 revealed some increase in microleakage at the dentin/cememtum margin.
Etchant composition and bond strength to dentin.	This in vitro study examined the effects of three different types of acid etchants on the bond strengths of three dentin bonding systems. The etchant free of both silica and oxalate provided the highest bond strengths for all three systems. Use of the etchant containing oxalate resulted on the lowest bond strengths for all three systems. It is suggested that bond strengths vary as a consequence of deposition onto the dentin surface of various minerals or salts found in the etchants. It is recommended that if treatment of dentin with acids is indicated it should probably be done with those etchants containing neither silica nor oxalate.
Effects of etching time on enamel bond strengths.	This study evaluated the effects of etching time on bond strengths of composite to enamel. Proximal surfaces of extracted molars were etched with either a conventional etchant (35% phosphoric acid) or one of two dentin/enamel conditioners, 10% maleic acid (Scotchbond Multi-Purpose Etchant), or a solution of oxalic acid, aluminum nitrate, and glycine (Gluma 1 & 2 Conditioner). Each agent was applied for 15, 30, or 60 seconds. Specimens etched with 35% phosphoric acid had the highest mean bond strengths at each etching time. At the manufacturer's recommended application times, the other two agents gave significantly lower shear bond strengths than phosphoric acid.
Mortality of iron foundry workers. III. Lung cancer case-control study.	A nested case-control study was undertaken to identify the determinants of lung cancer mortality in a cohort of 8147 foundry men among whom an excess of lung cancer deaths was previously observed. The present study consisted of all lung cancer deaths (N = 220) that occurred within this cohort between 1950 and 1989. both living and dead controls, matched on race and attained age, were selected in the ratio of 10:1 (N = 2200) by means of the incidence density sampling procedure. All cases and two controls per case, randomly selected from each case's 10 controls, were included in a smoking history survey. Basic smoking history information was obtained for about 71% of these study subjects. For the purpose of this study, formaldehyde exposure levels were categorized as high, medium, low, and none. Airborne silica exposure was categorized only as high, medium, and low levels, because all foundry workers were known to be exposed to silica. Conditional logistic regression analyses indicated that cigarette smoking was a strong predictor of lung cancer mortality in this cohort. Neither exposure to formaldehyde nor silica exposure level, nor employment in any of the six major work areas within the foundry, showed an association with lung cancer.
Exposure to biogenic silica fibers and respiratory health in Hawaii sugarcane workers.	We conducted a cross-sectional environmental and medical survey of 355 male sugarcane workers in Hawaii to determine whether exposure to biogenic silica fibers (BSF) affected their respiratory health. Exposures to BSF ranged from nondetectable to more than 0.700 BSF/mL and varied by job and department. Respiratory symptoms, chest radiograph findings, and pulmonary function were not associated with BSF exposures. Cigarette smoking was associated with respiratory symptoms and pulmonary obstruction. Fifteen workers had pleural thickening or pleural plaques and 3 of these workers were exposed to BSF for more than 10 years. BSF exposure does not appear to influence the respiratory health of sugarcane workers; however, further study is warranted.
In vitro bond strength of two adhesives to enamel and dentin under normal and contaminated conditions.	In vitro bond strengths of human enamel and dentin treated with five contaminants were measured with air, water and damp conditions as controls. Two commercial bonding agents (a lower-viscosity, solvent-containing type, AB, and a higher-viscosity, hydrophilic monomer type, SB) and their composites were applied to tooth structure under two conditions (contaminated and re-etched). Samples were debonded in tension after 24 h using an inverted, truncated cone test. Among the controls, the highest bond strengths were obtained with damp conditions for AB (24 MPa) and damp conditions or air for SB (22 MPa) with small differences between enamel and dentin. Most contaminants lowered the bond strength. Re-etching without additional mechanical preparation resulted in bond strengths similar to controls. Bond strengths to tooth structure with the bonding agents tested may be less sensitive to common forms of contamination than typically assumed.
In vivo wear pattern of experimental light-cured hybrid composite resins.	This study evaluated the effect of various types of microfiller on the in vivo wear resistance of composite resins. Experimental light-cured composites with two different microfiller systems were prepared: (1) 56 wt % fine quartz filler, 21 wt% organic filler and 3 wt% colloidal silica filler (Hybrid type 1), and (2) 64 wt% fine quartz filler and 21 wt% colloidal silica filler (Hybrid type 2). The resin monomer consisted of 50 wt % Bis-GMA and 50 wt% TEGDMA. These materials were placed in 2 mm diameter cylindrical cavities located in the OCA (occlusal contact area) or the CFA (contact free area) in cast gold-silver-palladium alloy full coverage crowns, which were temporarily set in a volunteer patient's mouth. The crowns were removed at monthly intervals for SEM observation. Hybrid type 1, which contained organic fillers, showed bulk fractures in the OCA, by the second month of the experiment. However, reinforcement of the resin matrix by dispersion of microfiller provided Hybrid type 2 with superior wear resistance for up to two months.
Castability and surface hardness of titanium cast plates obtained from experimental phosphate-bonded silica investment molds.	The effect of 12 different experimental compositions of phosphate-bonded SiO2 investments was examined on cast pure titanium. The mold temperature was 600 degrees C and the casting was conducted with an argon-arc melting and pressure casting machine. Castability was evaluated by the volume of casting porosity, which was calculated from the volume of wax pattern (15 mm x 15 mm x 1.5 mm), the weight of cast plate and the specific density of pure titanium. The existence of inner casting porosities was confirmed by an X-ray non-destructive inspection instrument. Cast plates made in molds with cristobalite had significantly lower castability and higher surface hardness than those in molds with quartz as a refractory material. Cast plates in molds (quartz-cristobalite mixtures) with 20% binder had lower surface hardness and fewer casting porosities than those in molds with 10% binder.
Effects of four methods of sperm preparation on the motile concentration, morphology, and acrosome status of recovered sperm from normal semen samples.	This prospective study compared the effects of four sperm preparation methods on semen samples with normal sperm parameters. The samples were obtained from husbands of infertile couples being evaluated at a fertility center in New York City. Twenty-nine of 51 men in the study (56.9%) had fathered a child within the past 2-5 years. Specifically, the study compared the effects of simple wash (unselective) and three selective methods--conventional swim-up, three-gradient Percoll separation, and swim-up from the Percoll-separated fraction--on the concentration, percentage motile, percentage normal (oval) morphology, percentage intact acrosomes, percentage motile sperm recovery, and motile sperm concentration in the processed samples. The same parameters were measured in the untreated ejaculate, resulting in five data sets. These data were analyzed by both comparison across the five sets and pairwise multiple comparisons between sets.
Sandblasting and silica-coating of dental alloys: volume loss, morphology and changes in the surface composition.	Silica-coating alloys improves chemo-mechanical bonding. Sandblasting is recommended as pretreatment to thermal silica-coating or as part of a tribochemical silica-coating process. This study evaluated the effects of sandblasting and coating techniques on volume loss, surface morphology and compositional changes in noble (AuAgCu) and base alloys (NiCr and CoCr). Volume loss was statistically significantly higher in the noble as compared to the base alloys but does not seem to be critical for the clinical fit of restorations. Embedded alumina particles were found in all alloys after sandblasting and the alumina content increased to a range of 14 to 37 wt% as measured by EDS. Following tribochemical silica-coating, a layer of small silica particles remained on the surface, increasing the silica content to between 12 and 20 wt%. Ultrasonic cleaning removed loose alumina or silica particles from the surface, resulting in only slight decreases in alumina or silica contents, thus suggesting firm attachment of the major part of alumina and silica to the alloy surface. Clinically, ultrasonic cleaning of sandblasted and tribochemically silica-coated alloys might improve resin bonding as loose surface particles are removed without relevant changes in composition. Silica content following thermal silica-coating treatment increased only slightly from the sandblasted specimen. The silica layer employed by these silica-coating methods differs widely in both morphology and thickness. These results provide a basis for explanation of adhesive failure modes in bond strength tests which will possibly optimize resin bonding. Further research is needed to characterize the outermost surface layers after these treatments and the exact location of adhesive failures.
The immunocorrective potentials of an antistaphylococcal immunosorbent in extracting staphylotoxin]	The immunocorrective effect of antistaphylococcal adsorbent prepared on the basis of silochrome, a silica matrix, has been revealed in experiments on peripheral blood lymphocytes obtained from 18 donors. The expression of receptors on human immunoregulating cells has been suppressed by the addition of staphylotoxin at a toxic concentration into the system. The experiments have shown that immunosorption is capable of extracting the toxin from the solution to a considerable degree, thus preventing the suppression of the receptor apparatus of immunoregulating lymphocytes. Staphylotoxin has been found capable of forming complexes with plasma ingredients, which increases the adsorption capacity of the immunosorbent.
Identification of Rab 5 but not Rab 3A in rat pancreatic zymogen granule membranes.	Low molecular weight GTP-binding (LMWG) proteins are known to be present on secretory organelles and a role for Rab 3A in exocytosis of synaptic vesicles has been postulated. Pancreatic zymogen granules possess multiple LMWG proteins which were shown to be on the outside of the granules by pronase susceptibility. Rab 3A, however, could not be identified in rat pancreatic acinar cells or on zymogen granules by immunoblots or by northern blots or PCR amplification although all three techniques demonstrated its presence in rat brain, RINm5F and AR42J cells. Immunoblots revealed expression of Rab 5, Rab 7, Rab 11 and ARF in acini. Of these, Rab 5 was identified in purified zymogen granule membranes where it may be involved in the endocytotic retrieval of granule membrane following exocytosis.
Nuclear relaxation of liquids in confinements.	We study theoretically the effects of geometrical confinement on the dipolar relaxation of a non-interacting liquid in porous media. Application to the 1H relaxation of methylcyclohexane liquid in porous silica glasses is given. The case of an interacting liquid is considered by molecular dynamics simulations. Geometrical confinement and surface interaction lead to similar frequency behaviour of relaxation rates according to the layering of local density and anisotropy of the molecular mobility.
Water proton relaxation in dilute and unsaturated suspensions of non-porous particles.	NMR water proton relaxation times are reported for suspensions of silica powder of varying silica/water ratios. Pore size distributions and pore connectivities are derived from the relaxation time distributions for the water-saturated suspension. Capillary theory appears to explain the relaxation behaviour of the unsaturated, packed suspensions. The relaxation data in suspensions that have lower solid/liquid ratios than the saturated, packed suspension are sensitive to the particular radial distribution function. This is analysed with a simple cluster model.
The characterization of porous solids by NMR.	We are using a novel NMR method, that has been developed in our laboratory and employs the depression of the freezing point (delta Tm) of confined liquid within porous media, to investigate the effect of pre-drying silica with average pore diameter ranging from 60 A to 1000 A. Cyclohexane was the confined liquid. Pre-drying was found to affect only the smallest pores. A study to compare partially filled and over-filled samples showed that the average delta Tm for partially filled samples is greater than for over-filled. We have also investigated the use of water as the absorbed liquid and compared results with those obtained from cyclohexane studies. Reasonable agreement was found but cyclohexane was more sensitive. The method is fast and is suitable for monitoring pore size distributions in the range of 50-1000 A.
Diffusion of fluids in confined geometry.	Pulsed field gradient NMR measurements of restricted self-diffusion of three nonspecific liquids are reported in well characterised samples with average pore diameters ranging between 35 A and 500 A. Structural information has been obtained in the long-times and small "wave-vectors" regime, using an exact analytic solution for the related problem of "thin" semi-permeable barriers. Experimental results suggest that the permeability of a porous medium depends on the porosity (connectivity) of the pore space and the molecular size of the self-diffusing molecules.
Characterisation of wetting heterogeneities in sandstone rocks by MRI.	MRI is applied to the visualisation of wetting heterogeneities evidenced by water proton T1 contrast at 0.1 T. Water saturated Fontainebleau sandstone samples were examined either in their original water-wet condition, or after silanation. T1, T2Hahn, and T2CPMG were measured for several porosities. T1 and T2CPMG of hydrophobic samples are both twice longer than those of hydrophilic ones. This good contrast allows us to observe wetting heterogeneities in T1-profiles and T1-weighted images.
Polyvinylpyrrolidone-coated silica packings for chromatography of proteins and peptides.	Polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP)-coated silica sorbents were synthesized by interaction of a copolymer of vinyl-methyldiethoxysilane and vinylpyrrolidone with LiChrospher Si 300 and LiChrospher Si 500 silicas. The coating procedure retains the wide-pore structure of the starting silicas, as was shown by nitrogen adsorption, mercury porosimetry and inverse size-exclusion chromatographic measurements. Good selectivity and separation ability of the synthesized packings toward proteins and peptides were demonstrated in the hydrophobic interaction chromatographic mode of separation. Aromatic compounds undergo a specific interaction with bonded PVP chains which can be used for the preconcentration or selective recovery of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons.
Properties related to strength and resistance to abrasion of VariGlass VLC, Fuji II L.C., Ketac-Silver, and Z-100 composite resin.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the properties related to the strength and resistance to abrasion of new Type II lightcured glass ionomers, VariGlass VLC, and Fuji L.C., and to compare the results with Ketac-Silver and Z-100 composite resin. Each material was tested for strength with an Instron Universal Testing Machine and for resistance to abrasion with a motor-driven machine. The strengths of Z-100 were the highest. Among glass ionomers, Ketac-Silver had higher compressive strength, but lower diametral tensile and transverse strengths than the others; and Fuji II L.C. had higher strengths than VariGlass VLC. VariGlass VLC showed the greatest resistance to abrasion, followed respectively by Z-100, Fuji II L.C. and Ketac-Silver. ANOVA indicated significant differences in strengths and abrasion resistance, except, the volume losses of Fuji II L.C. and Ketac-Silver in the toothbrushing test were not significantly different (p < 0.01). The results support VariGlass VLC and Fuji II L.C. as alternative filling materials in Class III and V situations, but they are not recommended for stress-bearing restorations.
The effects of a silica dentifrice containing Triclosan and zinc citrate on supragingival plaque and calculus formation and the control of gingivitis.	A double blind, 7-month parallel clinical study was conducted to determine the effect of a dentifrice containing 0.3 per cent Triclosan and 0.75 per cent zinc citrate in a 0.8 per cent sodium monofluorophosphate/silica base on supragingival plaque, gingivitis and supragingival calculus formation, compared to a 0.8 per cent monofluorophosphate/silica control dentifrice. The results of this clinical study demonstrate that the use of the Triclosan/zinc citrate dentifrice over a 7-month period provided a statistically significant and clinically relevant benefit in controlling gingivitis, compared to a control dentifrice. Supragingival plaque and calculus levels were also significantly reduced in comparison to the effects of a control dentifrice.
The effects of three silica dentifrices containing Triclosan on supragingival plaque and calculus formation and on gingivitis.	A double blind, seven month clinical study was conducted to determine the effects of three Triclosan containing test dentifrices on supragingival plaque, gingivitis and supragingival calculus formation compared to a 0.8 per cent monofluorophosphate-silica control dentifrice. Each test dentifrice contained 0.3 per cent Triclosan; additionally one contained 0.75 per cent zinc citrate, the second contained 2 per cent Gantrez and the third contained 5 per cent pyrophosphate. Subjects were assigned to one of the three test groups or to the control group according to random allocation within nine strata. Subjects were evaluated for supragingival plaque and calculus formation and for gingivitis after one, four and seven months' use of the dentifrices. After seven months, the Triclosan/Gantrez and the Triclosan/pyrophosphate dentifrices each provided a statistically significant reduction of approximately 25 per cent in gingival bleeding compared to the control. Neither dentifrice gave statistically significant reductions in supragingival plaque or calculus formation. In contrast, the Triclosan/zinc citrate dentifrice provided statistically significant reductions of 33 per cent in supragingival plaque, 51 per cent in gingival bleeding and 67 per cent in supragingival calculus formation. The reductions in gingival bleeding and calculus formation were statistically superior to those of the Triclosan/Gantrez and the Triclosan/pyrophosphate products. The results demonstrate that use of the Triclosan/zinc citrate dentifrice over a seven month period provided statistically significant and clinically relevant reductions in supragingival plaque and calculus formation, and control of gingivitis as compared to a control dentifrice.
In situ growth and activity and modes of penetration of Escherichia coli in unconsolidated porous materials.	Statistically reliable data on the in situ rates of growth, substrate consumption, and product formation are required to test the validity of the mathematical models developed for microbially enhanced oil recovery and in situ bioremediation processes. A simple, replicable porous-core system that could be aseptically divided into sections at various times was developed to follow the kinetics of microbial growth and metabolism in situ. This core system was used to study the kinetics of growth and the mode of penetration of strains of Escherichia coli through anaerobic, nutrient-saturated, fine Ottawa sand (permeability of 7.0 microns2 and porosity of 37%) under static conditions. The in situ rate of growth of a wild-type, motile, chemotactic strain, RW262, was two times slower inside cores than it was in liquid cultures. The mode of metabolism of galactose by strain RW262 was not altered inside cores, as acetate was the only product detected either inside the cores or in liquid cultures. Without applied advective force, strain RW262 grew exponentially and moved through cores at a rate of about 0.1 m/day. The cell population moved through cores in a band-like fashion, as the front of the moving cells consisted of high cell concentrations (greater than 10(5) cells per ml). Until the breakthrough of the cells occurred, galactose consumption and acetate production were observed only in the proximal sections of the core, showing that the cell propagation preceded the complete depletion of the substrate or the accumulation of large amounts of products.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Determination of paraquat and diquat in low-moisture food crops using silica column cleanup and liquid chromatography with UV detection.	A sample cleanup method was developed for the determination of paraquat (PQ) and diquat (DQ) in low-moisture food crops. Low-moisture commodities, such as milled dry navy beans, are digested in acid. PQ and DQ are isolated from the digestates by using a 4 g column of preconditioned silica gel. The analytes are concentrated and then determined by liquid chromatography with a silica analytical column, sodium chloride as an ion-pairing re-agent, and acetonitrile as an organic modifier. PD and DQ are determined simultaneously with a diode array UV absorbance detector. Recoveries for PQ and DQ were determined on 3 different fortified low-moisture crops. Fortification levels ranged from 0.01 to 0.30 ppm; average recoveries ranged from 47.5% (DQ) to 95.3% (PQ).
Separation of the sticky peptides from membrane proteins by high-performance liquid chromatography in a normal-phase system.	The amphiphilic peptides obtained upon cleavage of membrane proteins, including numerous receptors, are recalcitrant to most separation techniques as a consequence of their limited solubility and tendency to aggregate and adsorb to surfaces. This paper describes HPLC systems that can separate these "sticky" peptides on silica and aminopropyl-modified silica columns with a mobile phase consisting of a mixture of chloroform/methanol/isopropylamine. The protocols developed have been applied to synthetic M1 and M2 peptides, which constitute part of the transmembrane domain of glutamate-gated ion-channel proteins. Four of these M1 and M2 peptides were separated from minor synthetic impurities, and a 23-mer was baseline separated from a 28-mer. The HPLC procedures have also led to purification of the 10 peptides resulting from cyanogen bromide cleavage of bacteriorhodopsin, peptides which have so far eluded HPLC separation despite numerous attempts. These HPLC protocols have been used to purify peptides ranging from 4 to 50 amino acids in high yield while the columns continued to resolve sharp peaks after more than 100 separation runs over a 6-month period. These new HPLC systems offer an efficient method for the isolation and analysis of this important albeit troublesome class of peptides.
Studies on silica-bonded monoclonal antibody packing material for separation of recombinant interferon by high performance immunoaffinity chromatography.	A method for the preparation of a new packing material for high performance liquid chromatography by bonding an anti-interferon monoclonal antibody to the surface of silica gel is described. The high coupling efficiency and activity of the interferon-alpha A-monoclonal antibody (IFN-alpha A-McAb) column were obtained by activated diol-silica gel with an activating agent. After purification with this packing material, the specific activity of recombinant human interferon-alpha A rose by up to 1.03 x 10(7)IU/mg protein and the purification efficiency was increased by approximately 100 times.
Direct injection assay of drug enantiomers in serum on ovomucoid-bonded silica materials by liquid chromatography.	A high-performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) method for the determination of drug enantiomers in serum was developed. The method involves direct injection of serum samples on to an ovomucoid-bonded column, which is prepared by bonding of ovomucoid proteins to an aminopropyl-silica gel by the N,N'-disuccinimidyl carbonate activation method and separation of drug enantiomers on the column using a mixture of phosphate buffer and an organic solvent. High recoveries of serum proteins were obtained using eluent pH values of 3, 4, 6 and 7 at phosphate buffer concentrations above 50 mM, whereas the recovery was ca. 70% at an eluent pH of 5. The recovery of each enantiomer of basic and acidic drugs from serum was almost 100%.
Influences on the antimicrobial activity of surface-adsorbed nisin.	The efficacy of the antimicrobial peptide nisin was examined after adsorption to silica surfaces. Three protocols were used to evaluate nisin's activity against adhered cells of Listeria monocytogenes: bioassay using Pediococcus pentosaceous FBB 61-2 as the sensitive indicator strain; visualization and enumeration of cells by microscopic image analysis; and viability of adhered cells as determined by lodonitrotetrazolium violet uptake and crystallization. The activity of adsorbed nisin was highly dependent upon conditions of adsorption. The highest antimicrobial activity of adsorbed nisin occurred with high concentrations of nisin (1.0 mg ml-1) and brief contact times (1 h) on surfaces of low hydrophobicity. Sequential adsorption of a second protein (beta-lactoglobulin or bovine serum albumin) onto surfaces consistently resulted in decreased nisin activity. These data provide direction for the development of applications to limit microbial attachment on food contact surfaces through the use of adsorbed antimicrobial peptides.
1H, 51V and 15N nuclear magnetic resonance studies of structure and properties of vanadia supported on TiO chi/SiO2.	1H magic-angle spinning nuclear magnetic resonance (MAS NMR) spectra of TiO chi/SiO2 catalysts suggest the interaction of surface TiO chi species with Si-OH groups of the silica. Simultaneously, Ti-OH groups from surface titania species appear. The distribution of TiO chi species over SiO2 is non-uniform, since a considerable part of surface OH groups remains unreacted with supported titania. Supported vanadia species interact both with Si-OH and Ti-OH groups. 51V NMR spectra suggest the interaction of vanadia with supported titania species and show the non-uniform distribution of titania over the SiO2 surface. Deposition of titania as well as vanadia produces strong electron-accepting (Lewis) sites which interact with the terminal N atom of adsorbed N2O molecules, resulting in a downfield shift of the resonance in 15N NMR spectra. The acid strength of electron-accepting sites is similar in both cases. Only about 10% of the total amount of supported titania and vanadia create Lewis sites.
Lung collagen cross-links in rats with experimentally induced pulmonary fibrosis.	Rats were intratracheally instilled with bleomycin or with silica (quartz) dust to induce lung fibrosis. Several weeks later, purified collagen chains (or collagen digests) were isolated from the lungs of these animals and from age-matched controls instilled intratracheally with saline solution, and the ratios of hydroxylysine to lysine and of the dysfunctional cross-links DHLNL to HLNL were quantified. Collagen from fibrotic lungs had significantly higher ratios of DHLNL:HLNL than did control lungs, 15.5 +/- 4.8 and 17.1 +/- 4.8 vs. 2.3 +/- 0.5 for the silica-instilled and the bleomycin-instilled animals, respectively. The hydroxylysine:lysine ratio was significantly increased for the alpha 1(I) chain, to a value 170% of that of lung collagen from control animals, and for several of its constituent CNBr peptides. Lung tissue was exhaustively digested with collagenase and specific cross-linked peptides were isolated and characterized. The cross-linked alpha 1(I) x alpha 1(I) peptide linked by the residues 87 x 16C, with a ratio of DHLNL:HLNL of 17:1, demonstrated that the increased hydroxylation of the dysfunctional cross-links in fibrotic lung collagen could be accounted for in part by increased hydroxylation of the lysine residue at position 16C of the C-terminal telopeptide of the collagen alpha 1(I) chain. It proved impossible to locate the corresponding N-terminal cross-linked fragment from alpha 1(I) x alpha 1(I) chains, 9N x 930, possibly due to further reactions of this material to form the material referred to as poly(CB6). Isolated poly (CB6) accounted for more than half of the total alpha 1(I)CB6 peptide expected in lung collagen, and had a hydroxylysine:lysine content 2.8 times greater in bleomycin-treated animals than in their age-matched controls. Evidence was also found for a cross-linked alpha 1(III) x alpha 1(I) peptide linking residue 87 from the alpha 1(III) chain with residue 16C from the alpha 1(I) chain; it also had an increased ratio of DHLNL:HLNL. We conclude that the increased hydroxylation of lysine observed in two different animal models of lung fibrosis occurs preferentially at the N- and C-terminal nonhelical extension peptides of the alpha 1(I) collagen chains, and that this apparent specificity of overhydroxylation of fibrotic collagen may have important structural and pathological consequences.
Porous zirconia: a new support material for enzyme immobilization.	Four different proteases (trypsin, chymotrypsin, papain and pepsin) were covalently attached to the surface of a new type of porous zirconia, as well as a conventional porous silica, activated with 3-isothiocyanatopropyltriethoxy silane (NCS-silane). The immobilization efficiency onto the porous zirconia material was evaluated in terms of the amount of enzyme attached to the particles and from the biological activity remaining after the immobilization step. The results were compared with the corresponding experiments with a porous silica of similar surface area/g support material. In addition, the storage stability of the modified zirconia and silica biocatalysts were evaluated. These results indicated that specific immobilized enzyme biocatalysts can be achieved with this new zirconia support material which exhibits different properties to those observed with the more conventional silica-based materials. Moreover, the results with the enzyme-zirconia biocatalysts also indicate different characteristics when compared with data for the same enzymes immobilized under similar buffer conditions to organic support materials as previously described by various other investigators. The advantages of zirconia-based immobilized enzyme biocatalysts in terms of their density and chemical robustness are also described relative to other alternative support materials currently in use.
Titanium. A review of investments for high temperature casting.	Conventional silica (SiO2) based dental casting investments are used for the casting of pure titanium using casting machines specifically developed for this metal. Highly reactive molten titanium reduces SiO2 and titanium is in turn oxidised. For this reason possible alternatives to SiO2 have been studied in the past decade and MgO and Al2O3 are the most common in current commercial investments released for titanium casting. The surface of titanium castings presents a layered structure and its evaluation in relation to clinical performance requires further study. It is also urgently required to know setting and thermal behaviour of the newly developed investments for successful compensation of metal shrinkage.
Alveolar macrophage response to yeasts and inert particles.	Interactions between alveolar macrophages (AM) from rats and a yeast with relatively high pathogenicity (Candida albicans), a yeast with low pathogenicity (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) and an inert control particle (amorphous silica) of similar diameters, 3-4 microns, were studied. Both yeasts were phagocytized significantly faster by AM than were the control particles and C. albicans significantly faster than S. cerevisiae. Quantitative nitroblue tetrazolium reduction by AM reflecting their oxidative metabolism was markedly increased in response to both fungi during the period of phagocytosis as well as 24 h after the phagocytosis. Macrophages with silica particles also showed a moderate but significant increase in oxidative metabolism 24 h after phagocytosis. Phagolysosomal pH was significantly higher for S. cerevisiae than the control particles after 3 and 24 h. pH in phagolysosomes with C. albicans tended to be higher after 3 h but was significantly lower after 24 h than in the phagolysosomes with silica particles. Both yeasts showed a considerable number (around 10%) of phagolysosomes with high pH > or = 6.5 after 3 h and a smaller percentage after 24 h. No such fraction could be seen for the control particles. Electron microscopy showed narrow passages from AM cell surface to phagolysosomes with particles. These passages might be more frequent in AM containing the yeasts and could explain the phagolysosomes with high pH.
Profiles of sperm morphology and motility after discontinuous multiple-step Percoll density gradient centrifugation.	Morphology and motility are important parameters for assessing the fertilizing capacity of spermatozoa. This investigation reports a systematic study on the profiles of these parameters after percoll gradient centrifugation. Spermatozoa from normal human semen were fractionated by discontinuous Percoll gradients (30%, 45%, 75%, 90%). Spermatozoa washed with Earle's balanced salt solution were used as a control. After centrifugation, sperm morphology was evaluated according to strict criteria; motility was assessed by a computer-assisted semen analysis system. The results showed that the percentage of spermatozoa with normal morphology increased, while those with severe morphological defects decreased, as the density of Percoll increased. The percentages of motile spermatozoa and hyperactivated spermatozoa, and the velocity and amplitude of lateral head displacement of the spermatozoa were significantly higher in the 75% and 90% Percoll fractions than that in the 30% and 45% ones, and in the control. These results demonstrated that Percoll density gradient centrifugation enriched spermatozoa in terms of morphology and motility.
Semiconductor nanocrystals as fluorescent biological labels.	Semiconductor nanocrystals were prepared for use as fluorescent probes in biological staining and diagnostics. Compared with conventional fluorophores, the nanocrystals have a narrow, tunable, symmetric emission spectrum and are photochemically stable. The advantages of the broad, continuous excitation spectrum were demonstrated in a dual-emission, single-excitation labeling experiment on mouse fibroblasts. These nanocrystal probes are thus complementary and in some cases may be superior to existing fluorophores.
Comparison of various methods of processing human cryopreserved-thawed semen samples.	We compared the efficacy of various methods of processing cryopreserved-thawed samples for the recovery of functionally adequate spermatozoa as assessed by the response to the sperm stress test (SST), an index of temperature activated sperm membrane lipid peroxidation, and immediate and delayed changes in sperm viability and motion parameters. Donor semen samples (n = 28) were cryopreserved-thawed and divided into six equal parts, one part was used as control and the remaining parts were used to compare five methods of sperm processing as follows: direct Percoll gradient processing, washing by one-step or stepwise addition of the washing medium followed by Percoll processing, and washing by one-step or stepwise addition of the washing medium. Additional samples (n = 10) were evaluated for the immediate and delayed (6 h at 37 degrees C) impact of one-step and stepwise washing (without Percoll separation). Compared with wash-only methods, samples processed using Percoll had a significantly higher SST score (P = 0.001), motility, rapid spermatozoa (>50 microm/s), curvilinear velocity and motility index (P < 0.001). Comparing various Percoll methods, direct Percoll processing resulted in the highest number of motile spermatozoa recovered (P < 0.00001) and a higher SST score based on curvilinear velocity (P = 0.001). Stepwise washing gave a significantly higher number of motile spermatozoa (P < 0.001) but with a significantly lower SST score based on the concentration of motile spermatozoa (P = 0.001), motility (P = 0.001) and motility index (P = 0.01). Sperm viability and motion parameters after 6 h of incubation showed no difference between one-step and stepwise washing. In conclusion, compared with wash-only methods, Percoll processed samples resulted in the recovery of spermatozoa with superior quality as assessed by SST and motion analysis. One-step washing of the samples gave an overall comparable recovery compared to the samples prepared stepwise. Having significantly higher SST scores, similar viability and the maintenance of motility, one-step washing may be a better method of processing thawed samples than the stepwise washing.
Evaluation of the macrocyclic antibiotic avoparcin as a new chiral selector for HPLC.	Avoparcin is a macrocyclic glycopeptide antibiotic structurally related to vancomycin, teicoplanin, and ristocetin A. When attached to 5-microns spherical silica gel, the avoparcin proved to be an effective chiral stationary phase (CSP) that could be used in the reversed-phase, normal-phase, and polar-organic modes. The avoparcin CSP was complimentary to the other macrocyclic glycopeptide CSPs in that it could resolve some racemates that the others could not, and vice versa. Some important compounds resolved on the avoparcin CSP include verapamil, thyroxine, mephenytoin, and 2-imidazolidone-4-carboxylic acid. The use of this CSP and the optimization of separations on it are discussed. Avoparcin appears to be a useful addition to this family of CSPs.
A randomized comparison of the methods of sperm preparation for intrauterine insemination.	To compare the effectiveness of three methods of sperm preparation for IUI during superovulation of infertile women.
Procedures for enamel and dentin conditioning: a comparison of conventional and innovative methods.	Composite materials have become an integral part of the wide range of filling materials currently available. Conditioning is necessary to achieve adequate bonding of the composite material to enamel and dentin. Normally, this is done by applying acid preparations to the dental surfaces. These acids have an etching effect that causes surface roughening. The increasing application of lasers in dentistry has introduced another possibility. Laser irradiation can cause roughening of enamel and dentin surfaces. Another interesting alternative is the so-called kinetic cavity preparation technique. This method also results in distinct surface roughening. The purpose of the present study, was to compare the described methods. Tensile bond strength tests and shear bond tests were carried out to examine the adhesion of a composite material to surfaces treated with these methods. Laser irradiation with certain devices and the air-abrasive technique yielded results similar to those with acid etching.
Direct convective delivery of macromolecules to peripheral nerves.	Although many macromolecules have treatment potential for peripheral nerve disease, clinical use of these agents has been restricted because of limitations of delivery including systemic toxicity, heterogeneous dispersion, and inadequate distribution. In an effort to overcome these obstacles, the authors examined the use of convection to deliver and distribute macromolecules into peripheral nerves.
Direct convective delivery of macromolecules to the spinal cord.	Because of the limited penetration of macromolecules across the blood-spinal cord barrier, numerous therapeutic compounds with potential for treating spinal cord disorders cannot be used effectively. The authors have developed a technique to deliver and distribute macromolecules regionally in the spinal cord by using convection in the interstitial space.
Molecular imprint polymers as highly selective stationary phases for open tubular liquid chromatography and capillary electrochromatography.	Chiral separations employing molecular imprint polymer (MIP) stationary phases in both open tubular liquid chromatography (OT-LC) and capillary electrochromatography (OT-CEC) are demonstrated. MIPs are highly crosslinked polymers containing spatial and functionality memory of template molecules which provide a higher degree of selectivity when used as stationary phases for chromatographic separations. Thin films of molecular imprinted polymers bonded to the inner walls of 25 microm ID fused-silica capillaries were prepared using an in situ polymerization technique developed in our laboratory that allows the use of conventional fused-silica capillaries with polyimide outer coatings. The success rate in preparing such open tubular columns was about 70%. Methacrylic acid and 2-vinyl pyridine were chosen as functional monomers, and either ethylene dimethacrylate or trimethylol propane trimethacrylate was used as the crosslinker. Toluene was employed as the porogen. Effects of polymerization conditions on column preparation and chromatographic performance were studied. Enantiomeric separations of D- and L-dansyl phenylalanines were achieved in both OT-LC and OT-CEC modes with good selectivity and efficiencies. Both types of separations may be performed on the same column using a single commercial instrument.
Capillary electrochromatography of derivatized mono- and oligosaccharides.	An octadecyl-silica (ODS) stationary phase with light surface coverage of octadecyl ligands was introduced for capillary electrochromatography (CEC) at moderate electroosmotic flow (EOF) velocity. The ODS stationary phase was intentionally produced with light surface coverage in order to ensure a moderate EOF velocity across the packed capillary column, thus allowing relatively rapid analysis time. Despite the fact that the stationary phase leaves 75% of the surface silanols unreacted, fused-silica capillary columns packed with this ODS stationary phase exhibited reversed-phase behavior toward neutral alkylbenzene homologous solutes using hydroorganic eluents. Closely related p-nitrophenylglycosides including some p-nitrophenyl-monosaccharides and p-nitrophenyl-maltooligosaccharides were readily separated on the ODS capillary column within a relatively short analysis time. Also, alpha- and beta-anomers of some p-nitrophenyl-monosaccharides were readily separated in the presence of a small amount of borate buffer in the hydroorganic eluent.
Capillary electrochromatography with novel stationary phases. I. Preparation and characterization of octadecylsulfonated silica.	A novel silica-based stationary phase was developed for use in capillary electrochromatography (CEC) at relatively high electroosmotic flow (EOF). The silica was first bonded with a relatively hydrophilic layer bearing strong sulfonic acid groups. To this charged polar sublayer, octadecyl functions were covalently attached to yield the nonpolar top layer. This novel stationary phase, referred to as octadecylsulfonated silica (ODSS), was packed in bare fused-silica capillaries or in capillaries with the same coating as the sublayer on the silica-based stationary phase. The resulting packed columns were evaluated in CEC using alkylbenzenes as the test model solutes. Good separations can be achieved in less than 8 min, much faster than when using a regular octadecyl silica capillary column. Due to the permanent negative charge provided by the sulfonated sublayer on both the capillary walls and the silica particles, the magnitude of the EOF remained more or less constant over a wide range of pH, and its magnitude can be conveniently varied by the applied voltage.
Method development in pharmaceutical analysis employing capillary electrochromatography.	Capillary electrochromatography (CEC) has been employed to explore method development for a series of structurally related polar neutral compounds of pharmaceutical relevance. Capillaries with dimensions of 75 microm ID x 25 cm length (34.5 cm total) were packed with Spherisorb ODS-1, Hypersil phenyl, and Hypersil MOS (all 3 microm particles) and were compared in the reversed-phase mode in order to determine which phase provided the best initial performance and thus serve as the phase of choice for additional method development experiments. The various separation parameters examined for their effect on efficiency, k', resolution, and linear velocity included percent and type of organic modifier, buffer concentration, voltage, and temperature. All separations were conducted with an acidic mobile phase (aqueous mobile phase component, pH 3.0). The separation efficiencies obtained were on the order of 200,000-260,000 plates/m, which equates to reduced plate heights of 1.22 for columns packed with Spherisorb ODS-1. Repeatable column-to-column separation performance was demonstrated.
Separation of neutral compounds by capillary electrokinetic chromatography using polyethyleneimine as replaceable cationic pseudostationary phase.	Polyethyleneimine (PEI, molecular weight 6 x 10(5) - 1 x 10(6)) is applied as a positively charged pseudostationary phase for electrokinetic chromatography (EKC) of uncharged mono- and oligophenols. EKC is carried out in PEI-coated fused-silica capillaries (with electroosmotic flow directed towards the anode) in 2-(N-morpholino)ethanesulfonic acid (MES) buffer (pH 7.0, 20 mM) with PEI added to the solution in concentrations up to 0.70% w/v. The pseudostationary phase leads to a retardation of the solutes mainly according to the number (and the position) of the OH-groups of the separands, and is not influenced significantly by methyl groups. For 0.70% w/v PEI solution, for instance, the relative retention, rho, has values between 0.33 and 0.53. For the systems with the highest resolution of the separands (0.25-0.30% PEI) 190,000 plates per meter are observed. The results indicate that the separation selectivity is mainly caused by ion-dipole interactions between the OH-groups of the solutes and the pseudostationary phase.
Influence of sol and surface properties on in vitro bioactivity of sol-gel-derived TiO2 and TiO2-SiO2 films deposited by dip-coating method.	Different sol-gel-derived titania and titania-silica films were prepared and their properties related to in vitro bioactivity. The films were prepared by depositing the sols on the substrate surface using a dip-coating method. The sols were monitored carefully as a function of time, using rheological techniques and dynamic light scattering. The topography of the films was characterized using atomic force microscopy, and thicknesses and refractive indexes of the films were evaluated by fitting transmittance spectra measured in a wave length region of 370-1100 nm with a spectrophotometer. The in vitro bioactivity tests were performed in simulated body fluid. Surface topography was found to be of great importance with respect to the bioactivity of the studied films.
Vertical Pt-C replication for TEM, a revolution in imaging non-periodic macromolecules, biological gels and low-density polymer networks.	Vertical replication for TEM is ideal for studying non-periodic specimens from 0.7 to 3 nm, a resolution mid-range difficult to attain by any other technique. This paper discusses the importance of vertical replication, its methods and hardware for high-resolution TEM. Evidence from diverse published research will demonstrate vertical replication's versatility in imaging the molecular level normally unattainable in freeze-dried polymers, polyethylene tribological wear on surfaces, low-density polymer networks or biological gels. Vertical platinum-carbon (Pt-C) replication minimizes the horizontal movement of Pt-C on a surface. Surface objects are symmetrically enlarged by a vertically deposited Pt-C film. To estimate real size in replicas, 16-25 particles or filaments need to be measured in calibrated transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images and reduced by a value less than the Pt-C film thickness measured with a quartz monitor. Continuous, vertically deposited Pt-C films are formed on mica at a deposition thickness of around 1.0 nm and on silver at a thickness of 0.4-0.5 nm. The distance between helical turns in poly(1-tetradecene sulfone) of 0.7 nm is the highest resolution achieved with vertical replication. Two polysulfones freeze-dried and vertically replicated on mica contained structures are predicted by indirect physical chemical methods to be present in solution. Polymer chains are fully Pt-C coated, with no uncoated gaps along chains. Some side-chains on the extended non-helical poly(1-tetradecene sulfone) are also detected. To estimate the real chain width, polymer chains measured in images are reduced by the Pt-C film thickness minus 0.5 nm. The polymer chain widths estimated from molecular models are in the same range of widths as those measured using the image size correction method. Also, it is possible to distinguish random coil proteins (chain width of around 0.5 nm) from an alpha-helix (chain diameter of about 1 nm) in vertically replicated samples on silver substrates. In the future, subnanometer resolutions below 0.7 nm should be possible. The resolution of vertical replication depends on the thickness of a continuous, amorphous Pt-C film. That thin, continuous 0.4-0.5 nm Pt-C films on silver substrates can be made suggests that a point-to-point resolution limit of around 0.28 nm in TEM may ultimately be approachable with replication.
The heparin-glutathione test: an alternative to the hypo-osmotic swelling test to select viable sperm for intracytoplasmic sperm injection.	To evaluate the heparin-glutathione test (HEGLUT) for the selection of viable sperm for intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI).
Comparison of sperm separation methods: effect on recovery, motility, motion parameters, and hyperactivation.	To compare the Enhance (Percoll; Conception Technologies, San Diego, CA) and PureSperm (Gen X International, Madison, CT) sperm preparation methods with respect to recovery (percentage of motile sperm), motility (%), path and progressive velocities (microm/s), and hyperactivation (%).
Determination of bitertanol residues in strawberries by liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection and confirmation by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry.	A simple and rapid method was developed for determining bitertanol residues in strawberries. Bitertanol was extracted from samples with ethyl acetate. Bitertanol acetate was added prior to extraction as a surrogate standard. The ethyl acetate extract was cleaned up by passing through tandem solid-phase extraction columns consisting of anion-exchange (SAX) and aminopropyl (NH2) bonded silica. The eluate was evaporated to dryness and reconstituted with methanol. Bitertanol residues were determined by liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection. Recoveries at 4 fortified levels (0.05, 0.25, 0.5, and 1.0 microgram/g), calculated by the internal standard method, ranged from 92.1 to 99.1%, with coefficients of variation ranging from 0.3 to 4.0%. The detection limit was 0.01 microgram/g. Of 25 commercial strawberry samples analyzed for bitertanol residues, 5 contained bitertanol residues at concentrations ranging from 0.02 to 0.51 microgram/g. Positive samples were confirmed by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry with mass-selective detection (m/z 170 and 168).
Evaluation of three substitutes for Percoll in sperm isolation by density gradient centrifugation.	Silane-coated silica particle solutions (ISolate(TM) and PureSperm)TM)) and iodixanol (OptiPrep(TM)) were compared to polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP)-coated silica particles (Percoll(TM)) in their efficacy to recover spermatozoa by gradient centrifugation for use in assisted reproductive procedures. Efficacy was assessed in terms of percentages of sperm recovery, sperm vitality and motility, normal sperm morphology and normal sperm chromatin condensation. No significant difference was found in the recovery of spermatozoa for men with both normal sperm counts and oligozoospermia, between PVP-coated and silane-coated particle solutions. Iodixanol had significantly lower sperm recovery compared to the other products. Sperm vitality, progressive motility, normal morphology and normal chromatin condensation did not differ significantly between any of the sperm isolation products.
An in vitro study of the effect of restorative technique on marginal leakage in posterior composites.	The purpose of this in vitro study was to compare marginal leakage of class 2 light-cured composite resin restorations, with different insertion and polymerization techniques. Fifty sound premolars extracted for prosthetic purposes were used in the study. Conservative class 2 (MOD) preparations were made in all teeth, with one proximogingival margin on enamel and the other on cementum. All the preparations and restorations were performed by the same operator utilizing the same restorative materials. After restoration the teeth were thermocycled and their gingival margins exposed to a dye. Results showed that the kind of matrix system had no significant influence upon the degree of marginal leakage on enamel. On cementum, oblique and horizontal incremental insertion and polymerization techniques using the collimator cone exhibited the least leakage, while the clear matrix band/reflective wedge technique presented the greatest leakage.
Reactions of cells to topography.	Though contact guidance has been known since the very early days of cell culture very little quantitative examination of the reaction of cells to topography has been made. Exceptions to this subjective approach are given prominence below. Yet if we are to understand how cells react and if we are to be able to design ideal substrata for particular cells we need this information. Precision and quantitation are required both of the methods of examination of the cells but also in the definition of that topography. Recently it has become clear that the these reactions occur at the nanometric scale and have importance for use in cellular engineering and tissue repair. Topography appears to provide a set of very powerful signals for cells.
Colloidal silica-coated tissue culture dishes for primary cell cultures: growth of rabbit renal proximal tubule cells.	The use of colloidal silica as a substratum for primary cultures of differentiated cells has significant advantages over classic tissue culture polystyrene. In this report, the growth and the level of expression of differentiated function of primary rabbit renal proximal tubule (RPT) cell cultures on colloidal silica is examined, using hormonally defined serum-free medium. Primary RPT cells grew to confluence more rapidly on colloidal silica than on tissue culture polystyrene (TC+). Moreover, following three passages, the RPT cells increased in number threefold more than parallel cultures on TC+. The morphology of primary RPT cells on colloidal silica were found by means of transmission electron microscopy to possess a polarized morphology with a brush border, and differentiated markers were retained even after passaging, including the Na+/glucose cotransport system and Glut 7.
Color attributes and accuracy of Vita-based manufacturers' shade guides.	The shades of several tooth-colored restoratives are now keyed to the Vita Lumin shade guide. The purpose of this study was to determine whether manufacturers' shade guides had color attributes that were similar to the Vita Lumin guide to which they are supposedly keyed. The overall color accuracy between the different guides was also compared via colorimetry. Results showed that none of the manufacturers' shade tabs evaluated had all L*, a*, and b* values that were identical to their respective Vita shade tabs. For the shades evaluated, manufacturers' tabs were generally darker than their corresponding Vita shade tabs. When shade guides were compared, the color accuracy of Z100 and Fuji II LC shade guides was significantly better than that of Durafill VS and TPH. Dyract's shade guide was the most accurate and was significantly better than the shade guides of Fuji II LC, Durafill VS, and TPH. The accuracy of manufacturers' shade guides was not consistently product dependent but was shade dependent.
Micronodules and emphysema in coal mine dust or silica exposure: relation with lung function.	The aim of this study was to investigate the respective effects of micronodules and pulmonary emphysema, detected by computed tomography (CT), on lung function in workers exposed to silica and coal mine dust. Eighty-three subjects exposed to silica (n=35) or to coal mine dust (n=48), without progressive massive fibrosis, were investigated by high-resolution and conventional CT scans to detect micronodules and to quantify pulmonary emphysema by measuring the relative area of the lung with attenuation values lower than -950 Hounsfield units. Sixty-six (54.5%) subjects had evidence of micronodules on CT scans. Smokers had micronodules more rarely than nonsmokers. Significant correlations were found between the forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV(1); % predicted) (r=-0.41, p<0.001), FEV1/vital capacity (VC) (r=-0.61, p<0.001), diffusing capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide (DL,CO) (r=-0.36, p<0.001) and the extent of emphysema. No difference was demonstrated in the linear relationships between the extent of emphysema and the pulmonary function according to the type of exposure or the presence of micronodules on CT scans. This study suggests that micronodules detected by computed tomography have no influence, by themselves, on pulmonary function and that they should only be considered as a marker of exposure.
Effect of nocodazole on endocytosis of epidermal growth factor receptor]	During endocytosis EGF-receptor complexes are transported from early peripheral endosomes to late juxtranuclear-located endosomes to be then degraded in lysosomes. It is suggested that such a spatial organization of endosomal compartments is maintained by microtubule system and is necessary for lysosomal degradation of endocytosed cargo. In the present work, a study was made of the influence of Nocodazole, a microtubule depolymerizing agent, on endocytosis of fluid phase marker HRP and EGF entering the cell via receptor-mediated endocytosis. By subcellular fractionation in Percoll gradient it was shown that Nocodazole did not affect HRP internalization but stimulated its accumulation in a fraction sedimented together with late endosomes, thus preventing HRP delivery to lysosomes. On the contrary, Nocodazole exerted no influence on dynamics of compartmentalization and lysosomal degradation of EGF-receptor complexes. Moreover, no alterations were found in the functioning of a so well-known EGF-stimulated signal transduction pathway as MAP-kinase cascade. At the same time microtubule depolymerization dramatically changed the morphology of endosomal compartments abolishing juxtranuclear localization of late endosomes. Our data suggest that translocation of EGF-receptor complexes is not necessary for their normal lysosomal processing. Rab7, traditionally considered as a marker of late endosomes, has been found to demonstrate in Nocodazole-treated cells, in contrast to the control, a low extent of co-localization with endosomal structures. It could be supposed that the role of Rab7 is not so much to mediate early-to-late endosome transition as to maintain spatial organization of endosomal apparatus by mediating endosome-cytoskeleton interactions.
Studies of small GTPase Rab7 association with endosomes of cells expressing normal and mutant forms of epidermal growth factor receptors]	A study was made of an association of small GTPase Rab7, commonly considered as a marker of late endosomes, with endosomal compartments of cells expressing EGF receptor with different ability to be sorted for degradative pathway. It was found that in cells HER14, expressing normal EGF receptor, Rab7 was associated with both early and late endosomes and the extent of association correlated with the number of EGF-receptor complexes in the specific endosomal fraction. Cels with a receptor, lacking major sites of autophosphorylation by deletion of 126 C-terminal residues (CD126), demonstrated a low efficiency of EGF-receptor sorting to late endosomes and decreased association dynamics with Rab7. Interaction of Rab7 with endosomes of cells expressing kinase negative receptors (K721) was found to be minimal. At the same time, in cells Cd126 and K721 with a low sorting efficiency Rab7 was mainly associated with early endosomes. These data favor Rab7 involvement in mediating early-to-late endosomal transition.
Contribution of component monosaccharides to the coordinates of neutral and sialyl pyridylaminated N-glycans on a two-dimensional sugar map.	High-performance liquid chromatography elution data on an amide-adsorption and a reverse-phase column, expressed in glucose units, of pyridylamino N-glycans have been analyzed with a new approach using multiple regression to obtain parameters for the contribution ascribable to each of 54 monosaccharide units. Our calculation was based on the 417 different N-glycan structures determined empirically. Depending on the increase in the amount of elution data, we got good correlation (r = 0.9998 for amide-silica and r = 0.9974 for octadecylsilica) and agreement between the observed and the calculated N-glycan elution coordinate values which correspond to the sum of the unit contribution of the component monosaccharides. These calculated values of unit contribution are useful in predicting glycan structure from an observed glucose unit on the map as well as to assume a glucose unit from a given structure. As an example of the application of the unit contribution values to the estimate of a sialyl N-glycan structure, the case of trisialyl triantennary N-glycans is described.
