Measurement of cytoplasmic copper, silver, and gold with a lux biosensor shows copper and silver, but not gold, efflux by the CopA ATPase of Escherichia coli.	Copper, silver, gold and other heavy metals are potentially toxic to cells. Copper is also essential and cellular levels must be carefully controlled. In contrast, there is no known biological role for silver or gold and they have not been recognized as metals that are under homeostatic control. Using a luminescent biosensor based of the Vibrio fischeri lux gene cluster under the control of the Escherichia coli copA promoter/CueR metal-responsive regulator, we could show that in E. coli, cytoplasmic copper and silver, but not gold, are regulated by the CopA ATPase, the major copper efflux pump.
The changes to apical silver membrane uptake, and basolateral membrane silver export in the gills of rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) on exposure to sublethal silver concentrations.	Juvenile rainbow trout acclimated to softwater were exposed to 0 or 8.3 nM Ag (added as silver nitrate) for 21 days. On days 1, 7 and 21 gill, kidney and liver levels of silver; branchial Na+ influx, efflux and net flux rate; gill and kidney K+ -dependent p-nitrophenol phosphatase activity; and gill and liver accumulation of "new" Ag were measured. In addition, the concentration-dependent uptake of Ag by gill basolateral membrane vesicles (BLMV) was assessed in control fish and those exposed to 8.3 nM Ag for 7 days. Ag induced a significant increase in Na+ efflux following 1 day of exposure that resulted in an increase in net loss of Na+ and a reduction in Na+ influx. By day 21 this perturbation to Na+ balance had been corrected, but kidney K+ -dependent p-nitrophenol phosphatase activity was significantly reduced. Unexpectedly, the Ag concentrations in the liver of Ag exposed fish only significantly increased (two-fold) following 7 days of exposure and were not elevated when compared to controls on day 21. In contrast, the gill and kidney accumulated significant concentrations of Ag (20-fold increase) following 7 days of exposure, and the Ag concentration in these tissues remained similar on day 21. The gills of Ag exposed fish accumulated significantly less "new" Ag than the controls on days 7 and 21 following exposure, suggesting a down-regulation of branchial Ag uptake. The BLMV of Ag exposed fish showed a significant increase in V(max) [control fish BLMV V(max) = 2811.9+/-190.8 pmol (110 m)Ag/(mg protein x min) and Ag exposed fish BLMV V(max) = 3688.3+/-659.8 pmol (110 m)Ag/(mg protein x min) (P = 0.033)], suggesting that they are able to increase export of Ag from the gills on exposure to Ag. The results from this study demonstrate a complex array of physiological processes that control the bioreactive concentrations of Ag in the gills, including: cytoplasmic sequestration, a down-regulation of apical entry and potentially an increase in basolateral membrane extrusion.
Alterations of the nucleolar organizer regions during 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide-induced tongue carcinogenesis in rats.	The number of silver-stained nucleolar proteins (AgNORs) was enumerated in preneoplastic and neoplastic rat tongue lesions induced by 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide (4-NQO). Male ACI/N rats were given 0 to 10 p.p.m. 4-NQO for 12, 20 or 36 weeks to induce hyperplasia, dysplasia and neoplasm in tongue. The mean numbers of AgNORs stained by a modified one-step silver colloid method in various epithelial lesions were as follows: normal squamous epithelium (n = 5), 1.52 +/- 0.03; non-lesional squamous epithelium (n = 5), 1.58 +/- 0.04; hyperplasia (n = 20), 1.84 +/- 0.15; dysplasia (n = 20), 2.32 +/- 0.12; papilloma (n = 6), 2.23 +/- 0.10; and squamous cell carcinoma (n = 4), 3.06 +/- 0.26. Thus, the mean number of AgNORs showed a stepwise increase from untreated and treated, histologically normal squamous epithelium through hyperplasia and dysplasia to squamous cell papilloma and carcinoma, although the value of severe dysplasia was between those of papilloma and carcinoma. These results indicate that the mean number of AgNORs may reflect the proliferative nature of tongue lesions, as suggested in carcinogenesis of other organs, and also suggest that severe dysplasia is a direct precursor lesion for squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue induced by 4-NQO.
In vivo murine CD23 destabilization enhances CD23 shedding and IgE synthesis.	To investigate the effects of in vivo CD23 destabilization on CD23 shedding and IgE production, an anti-CD23 stalk monoclonal (19G5), previously shown to enhance proteolysis of CD23 in vitro, was utilized. Compared to isotype control-treated mice, BALB/cJ mice injected with 19G5 displayed significantly enhanced serum soluble CD23 and IgE. Soluble CD23 and IgE levels were also increased in 19G5-treated C57BL/6J mice (intermediate IgE responders); however, the kinetics of the responses differed between the high (BALB/cJ) and intermediate responder mice, suggesting a potential role for CD23 in regulating IgE responder status. The 19G5-induced IgE response was dependent on IL-4 and independent of CD21 as demonstrated through use of IL-4Ralpha and CD21/35-deficient mice, respectively. Overall, the data provide a direct demonstration for CD23's role in regulating IgE production in vivo and suggest that therapies aimed at stabilizing cell surface CD23 would be beneficial in controlling allergic disease.
Phytosynthesis of Au, Ag and Au-Ag bimetallic nanoparticles using aqueous extract and dried leaf of Anacardium occidentale.	Present study reports a green chemistry approach for the biosynthesis of Au, Ag, Au-Ag alloy and Au core-Ag shell nanoparticles using the aqueous extract and dried powder of Anacardium occidentale leaf. The effects of quantity of extract/powder, temperature and pH on the formation of nanoparticles are studied. The nanoparticles are characterized using UV-vis and FTIR spectroscopies, XRD, HRTEM and SAED analyses. XRD studies show that the particles are crystalline in the cubic phase. The formation of Au core-Ag shell nanoparticles is evidenced by the dark core and light shell images in TEM and is supported by the appearance of two SPR bands in the UV-vis spectrum. FTIR spectra of the leaf powder before and after the bioreduction of nanoparticles are used to identify possible functional groups responsible for the reduction and capping of nanoparticles. Water soluble biomolecules like polyols and proteins are expected to bring about the bio-reduction.
Silver bioaccumulation dynamics in a freshwater invertebrate after aqueous and dietary exposures to nanosized and ionic Ag.	We compared silver (Ag) bioavailability and toxicity to a freshwater gastropod after exposure to ionic silver (Ag(+)) and to Ag nanoparticles (Ag NPs) capped with citrate or with humic acid. Silver form, exposure route, and capping agent influence Ag bioaccumulation dynamics in Lymnaea stagnalis. Snails efficiently accumulated Ag from all forms after either aqueous or dietary exposure. For both exposure routes, uptake rates were faster for Ag(+) than for Ag NPs. Snails efficiently assimilated Ag from Ag NPs mixed with diatoms (assimilation efficiency (AE) ranged from 49 to 58%) and from diatoms pre-exposed to Ag(+) (AE of 73%). In the diet, Ag NPs damaged digestion. Snails ate less and inefficiently processed the ingested food, which adversely impacted their growth. Loss rates of Ag were faster after waterborne exposure to Ag NPs than after exposure to dissolved Ag(+). Once Ag was taken up from diet, whether from Ag(+) or Ag NPs, Ag was lost extremely slowly. Large Ag body concentrations are thus expected in L. stagnalis after dietborne exposures, especially to citrate-capped Ag NPs. Ingestion of Ag associated with particulate materials appears as the most important vector of uptake. Nanosilver exposure from food might trigger important environmental risks.
Cytotoxicity of water-soluble mPEG-SH-coated silver nanoparticles in HL-7702 cells.	Silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) are being used widely and increasingly in various products and medical supplies due to their antibacterial activity. However, little is known about the impacts of the AgNPs. Herein, The primary purpose of this study was to investigate the cytotoxic effect of AgNPs in the human liver cell line (HL-7702). The water-soluble α-Methoxy-poly (ethylene glycol)-ω-mercapto (mPEG-SH)-coated AgNPs (40 nm) were synthesized, which showed superior stabilization and uniform dispersion in culture medium. The effect of mPEG-SH-coated silver nanoparticles on cell viability, leakage of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), oxidative stress, mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), and cell cycle was evaluated after the cells were treated with nanoparticles. The results showed that the coated AgNPs could be taken up by cells, decreased cell viability in dose- and time-dependent manners at dosage levels between 6.25 and 100.00 μg/mL, caused membrane damage (LDH leakage), and decreased the activities of superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxides. The level of malondialdehyde, an end product of lipid peroxidation, was also increased in AgNPs-exposed cells. Moreover, flow cytometric analysis showed that AgNP exposure decrease MMP and cause G₂/M phase arrest. Thus, our data suggest that mPEG-SH-coated AgNPs have the potential toxicity that is associated with oxidative stress, apoptosis, and DNA damage.
Structural mechanisms of heavy-metal extrusion by the Cus efflux system.	Resistance-nodulation-cell division (RND) superfamily efflux systems are responsible for the active transport of toxic compounds from the Gram-negative bacterial cell. These pumps typically assemble as tripartite complexes, spanning the inner and outer membranes of the cell envelope. In Escherichia coli, the CusC(F)BA complex, which exports copper(I) and silver(I) and mediates resistance to these two metal ions, is the only known RND transporter with a specificity for heavy metals. We have determined the crystal structures of both the inner membrane pump CusA and membrane fusion protein CusB, as well as the adaptor-transporter CusBA complex formed by these two efflux proteins. In addition, the crystal structures of the outer membrane channel CusC and the periplasmic metallochaperone CusF have been resolved. Based on these structures, the entire assembled model of the tripartite efflux system has been developed, and this efflux complex should be in the form of CusC3-CusB6-CusA3. It has been shown that CusA utilizes methionine clusters to bind and export Cu(I) and Ag(I). This pump is likely to undergo a conformational change, and utilize a relay network of methionine clusters as well as conserved charged residues to extrude the metal ions from the bacterial cell. 
Biological synthesis of silver nanoparticles using the fungus Humicola sp. and evaluation of their cytoxicity using normal and cancer cell lines.	Nanoscience is a new born science of the modern era and taps into the potential of particles at nanoscale. Bulk materials reduced to nanoscale dimensions thus obtain unique properties such as electronic, optical, magnetic and chemical. As far as synthesis of nanoparticles is concerned, biological synthesis has recently sparked a great interest as compared to other available chemical and physical methods on account of its eco-friendliness and cost-effectiveness. Here we report, for the first time, the biosynthesis of silver nanoparticles by the thermophilic fungus Humicola sp. The fungus when reacted with Ag(+) ions reduces the precursor solution and leads to the formation of extracellular nanoparticles as monitored by ultra violet visible spectroscopy (UV-Vis). The morphology of nanoparticles is found to be spherical with good dispersity as revealed by transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Cell viability assays were carried out to assess the cytotoxicity of silver nanoparticles on NIH3T3 mouse embryonic fibroblast cell line and MDA-MB-231 human breast carcinoma cell line. 
Influence of humic acid on algal uptake and toxicity of ionic silver.	The biogeochemical cycle of silver has been profoundly disturbed by various anthropogenic activities. To better understand the relationship among silver speciation, bioavailability, and toxicity in freshwaters, we have studied the short-term uptake of silver by two species of green algae, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata, in the presence or absence of a well-characterized humic acid (Suwannee River Humic Acid, SRHA). The free Ag(+) concentrations in the exposure solutions were determined using an equilibrium ion-exchange technique. According to the biotic ligand model, for a given free metal ion concentration, metal uptake should remain the same in the presence or absence of humic acid. However, short-term silver uptake in the presence of SRHA was greater than anticipated on the basis of free Ag(+) concentration. Subsequent determination of silver subcellular distribution revealed that significantly more silver was present in the "cell debris" fraction (known to contain the cell wall and fragmented membranes) in the presence of SRHA than in its absence. Finally, this increase in silver uptake in the presence of humic acid did not result in decreased algal growth. These results suggest that the increase in silver uptake observed in the presence of SRHA is surface-bound, not truly internalized. 
Impacts of different nanoparticles on functional bacterial community in activated sludge.	Rapidly developing industry raises concerns about the environmental impacts of nanoparticles, but the effects of inorganic nanoparticles on functional bacterial community in wastewater treatment remain unclear. The discriminated effects of silver nanoparticles (Ag-NP) and zinc oxide nanoparticles (ZnO-NP) in a simulated sequencing batch reactor (SBR) system were therefore evaluated by the RNA-based terminal restricted fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP), 16S rcDNA gene clone library and real-time reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR) analyses. Although the COD and NH4-N removal efficiencies were not or slightly reduced by the addition of ZnO-NP and Ag-NP, the functional bacterial community changed remarkably. The denitrification related species were inhibited by high dosage of ZnO-NP and Ag-NP, including Diaphorobacter species, Thauera species and those in the Sphaerotilus-Leptothrix group. However, the bacteria related to sludge bulking, heavy metal resistant and biosorption were increased, especially by ZnO-NPs treatment, including those closely related to Haliscomenobacter hydrossis, Zoogloea ramigera and Methyloversatilis universalis. In addition, Ag-NP and ZnO-NP treatments influenced the functional bacterial community differently. Increasing of bulking related bacteria may help to compensate the COD removal efficiency and to maintain functional redundancy, but could lead to operation failure of activated sludge system when expose to ZnO-NPs. 
Fabrication of biogenic antimicrobial silver nanoparticles by Streptomyces aegyptia NEAE 102 as eco-friendly nanofactory.	The current research was focused on the extracellular biosynthesis of bactericidal silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) using cell-free supernatant of a local isolate previously identified as a novel Streptomyces aegyptia NEAE 102. The biosynthesis of silver nanoparticles by Streptomyces aegyptia NEAE 102 was quite fast and required far less time than previously published strains. The produced particles showed a single surface plasmon resonance peak at 400 nm by UV-Vis spectroscopy, which confirmed the presence of AgNPs. Response surface methodology was chosen to evaluate the effects of four process variables (AgNO3 concentration, incubation period, pH levels, and inoculum size) on the biosynthesis of silver nanoparticles by Streptomyces aegyptia NEAE 102. Statistical analysis of the results showed that the linear and quadratic effects of incubation period, initial pH, and inoculum size had a significant effect (p < 0.05) on the biosynthesis of silver nanoparticles by Streptomyces aegyptia NEAE 102. The maximum silver nanoparticles biosynthesis (2.5 OD, at 400 nm ) was achieved in runs number 5 and 14 under the conditions of 1 mM AgNO3 (1-1.5% (v/v)), incubation period (72-96 h), initial pH (9-10), and inoculum size (2-4% (v/v)). An overall 4-fold increase in AgNPs biosynthesis was obtained as compared with that of unoptimized conditions. The biosynthesized silver nanoparticles were characterized using UV-VIS spectrophotometer and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy analysis, in addition to antimicrobial properties. The biosynthesized AgNPs significantly inhibited the growth of medically important pathogenic gram-positive (Staphylococcus aureus) and gram-negative bacteria (Pseudomonas aeruginosa) and yeast (Candida albicans).
Microalga Scenedesmus sp.: A potential low-cost green machine for silver nanoparticle synthesis.	Bionanotechnology has revolutionized nanomaterial synthesis by providing a green synthetic platform using biological systems. Among such biological systems, microalgae have tremendous potential to take up metal ions and produce nanoparticles by a detoxification process. The present study explores the intracellular and extracellular biogenic syntheses of silver nanoparticles (SNPs) using the unicellular green microalga Scenedesmus sp. Biosynthesized SNPs were characterized by AAS, UV-Vis spectroscopy, TEM, XRD, FTIR, DLS, and TGA studies and finally checked for antibacterial activity. Intracellular nanoparticle biosynthesis was initiated by a high rate of Ag(+) ion accumulation in the microalgal biomass and subsequent formation of spherical crystalline SNPs (average size, 15-20 nm) due to the biochemical reduction of Ag(+) ions. The synthesized nanoparticles were intracellular, as confirmed by the UV-Vis spectra of the outside medium. Furthermore, extracellular synthesis using boiled extract showed the formation of well scattered, highly stable, spherical SNPs with an average size of 5-10 nm. The size and morphology of the nanoparticles were confirmed by TEM. The crystalline nature of the SNPs was evident from the diffraction peaks of XRD and bright circular ring pattern of SAED. FTIR and UV-Vis spectra showed that biomolecules, proteins and peptides, are mainly responsible for the formation and stabilization of SNPs. Furthermore, the synthesized nanoparticles exhibited high antimicrobial activity against pathogenic gram-negative and gram-positive bacteria. Use of such a microalgal system provides a simple, cost-effective alternative template for the biosynthesis of nanomaterials in a large-scale system that could be of great use in biomedical applications.
Does water chemistry affect the dietary uptake and toxicity of silver nanoparticles by the freshwater snail Lymnaea stagnalis?	Silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) are widely used in many applications and likely released into the aquatic environment. There is increasing evidence that Ag is efficiently delivered to aquatic organisms from AgNPs after aqueous and dietary exposures. Accumulation of AgNPs through the diet can damage digestion and adversely affect growth. It is well recognized that aspects of water quality, such as hardness, affect the bioavailability and toxicity of waterborne Ag. However, the influence of water chemistry on the bioavailability and toxicity of dietborne AgNPs to aquatic invertebrates is largely unknown. Here we characterize for the first time the effects of water hardness and humic acids on the bioaccumulation and toxicity of AgNPs coated with polyvinyl pyrrolidone (PVP) to the freshwater snail Lymnaea stagnalis after dietary exposures. Our results indicate that bioaccumulation and toxicity of Ag from PVP-AgNPs ingested with food are not affected by water hardness and by humic acids, although both could affect interactions with the biological membrane and trigger nanoparticle transformations. Snails efficiently assimilated Ag from the PVP-AgNPs mixed with diatoms (Ag assimilation efficiencies ranged from 82 to 93%). Rate constants of Ag uptake from food were similar across the entire range of water hardness and humic acid concentrations. These results suggest that correcting regulations for water quality could be irrelevant and ineffective where dietary exposure is important. 
A silver-reducing component in rat striated muscle. I. Selective localization at the level of the terminal cistern/transverse tubule system. Light and electron microscope studies with a new histochemical procedure.	This study reports the presence of a silver-reducing constituent in rat striated muscle fiber located selectively at the level of the terminal cistern/transverse tubule system. It is related to the T tubule network at or near sites that participate in junctions with terminal cisternae, i.e., at both sides of the T tubule in skeletal muscle (triad) and, predominantly, at one side in the ventricle (dyad). Little reactivity is present in the auricle due to the scarcity of those membrane systems. The longitudinal sarcoplasmic reticulum, the sarcolemma, mitochondria and myofibrils are not outlined by the reaction product. Extraction of low molecular weight substances, nucleic acids and lipids did not suppress the chemical reaction. A new argentaffin (Hg--Ag) technique is described. Ethanol or aldehyde fixed muscles were passed to water, postfixed 6-24 h with mercuric acetate (5% w/v in 1% acetic acid), washed with 1% acetic acid and distilled water, stained 12-24 h at 43 degrees C with ammoniacal silver nitrate (60% w/v) and washed in 10% sodium sulfite (three changes) and water. All steps were carried out in darkness. Postfixation with mercuric acetate proved to be essential for immobilizing the argentaffin component without interfering with its strong argentaffinity. The procedure also provides a simple method for tracing the pathway of transversally oriented membrane systems in skeletal and cardiac muscle cells.
A silver-reducing component in rat striated muscle. II. Isolated sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles.	In previous work on rat striated muscle cells a silver-reducing component was found selectively localized at the terminal cistern/transverse tubule system (Tandler and Pellegrino de Iraldi 1989). To further investigate that problem we performed the Hg-Ag argentaffin reaction on a sarcoplasmic reticulum fraction from rat skeletal muscle. Circular profiles corresponding to vesicular structures were found outlined by silver grains. The number of silver "stained" vesicles were less than the total number vesicles stained by conventional procedures. The correlation between argentaffinities in the intact muscle fiber and their subcellular organelles indicated that the Hg-Ag reactive vesicles must be those derived from the terminal cisternae of the sarcoplasmic reticulum. The silver-reducing constituent aggregates in the presence of 1 mM CaCl2 or 0.5 M K cacodylate. The state of aggregation induced by Ca2+ was not affected by incubation with 0.5% Triton X-100 or by 2 mM EDTA, thus suggesting a localization at or near the membrane of the terminal cistern vesicle facing the junctional gap. In Laemmli SDS-acrylamide gels the Hg-Ag reaction stained all proteins in a manner similar to Coomasie blue. It is suggested that the selective histochemical staining is the result of differential reactivities due to steric requirements of the chemical reaction.
Autointerference in silver accumulation in macrophages without affecting phagocytic, migratory or interferon-producing capacity.	Silver accumulation and processing in mouse peritoneal macrophages was studied in vitro by autometallographic visualization of intracellular silver. During the first 24 h of incubation in a medium containing from 5 microM to 20 microM of silver lactate, an inverse relationship between silver concentration in the former and visualizable silver in macrophages was recorded. Later, however, the cells treated with higher silver concentrations accumulated most silver. Cells exposed to silver concentrations above these levels exhibited acute coagulation necrosis and disintegrated within the first 15 min of silver treatment. Macrophages treated with silver lactate concentrations not causing acute cytotoxicity showed no impairment of their phagocytic, migratory or interferon-producing capacities. The significance of autointerference in silver accumulation and processing in macrophages is discussed, and a functional defect in the lysosome/phagosome system is suggested as a basis for the phenomenon.
Immunocytochemical and radioautographic evidence for secretion and intracellular degradation of enamel proteins by ameloblasts during the maturation stage of amelogenesis in rat incisors.	In the continuously erupting rat incisor the ameloblasts progress through distinct stages associated with the secretion and maturation of enamel. We have examined the possibility that the so-called "postsecretory" ameloblasts of the maturation stage of amelogenesis remain biosynthetically active and are engaged in the synthesis, secretion, and degradation of enamel gene products. The ultrastructural distribution of antigenic sites for enamel proteins was studied within enamel organ cells during the early maturation stage of amelogenesis in rat incisors by using the protein A-gold immunocytochemical technique and rabbit polyclonal antibodies developed against mouse amelogenins. All regions of amelogenesis from late secretion through the first complete modulation from ruffle-ended to smooth-ended ameloblasts were examined. Specific immunolabelling was found within the rough endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi saccules, secretory granules, and lysosomes of ameloblasts throughout these regions. The heaviest intracellular immunolabelling was found within secretory granules and lysosomes (multivesicular type). Quantitative analyses showed that the Golgi saccules and the multivesicular lysosomes of modulating ameloblasts were generally less immunoreactive compared to similar organelles in ameloblasts secreting the inner enamel layer. Radioautographic studies confirmed that ameloblasts of the maturation stage incorporated 3H-leucine and 3H-methionine and secreted labelled proteins into the enamel layer. Grain counts indicated that ameloblasts from the first ruffle-ended band incorporated about two-fold less 3H-methionine and secreted about tenfold less labelled proteins into the enamel compared to ameloblasts secreting the inner enamel layer. The results of this study confirm that ameloblasts do not terminate biosynthesis and secretion of enamel proteins once the final layer has been deposited on the surface of the developing enamel. They continue to form and release new proteins during the maturation stage which intermix with older proteins laid down initially during the secretory stage of amelogenesis. Secretory activity for enamel proteins has been detected in ameloblasts up to at least the second ruffle-ended phase of maturation, at which point the enamel matrix is partially soluble in EDTA.
Chemical studies on the silver staining of nucleoli.	The uptake of Ag-ions by isolated nucleoli of rat liver cells was studied. Nucleolar proteins separated by electrophoresis were examined for selective silver-staining. A mechanism for preferential Ag-staining of the nucleoli is discussed.
Distribution of radioactive silver in the subcellular fractions of various tissues of the rat and its binding to low molecular weight proteins.	In view of the electron microscopic evidence that silver does not penetrate cellular barriers, the distribution of radioactive silver in rat blood and subcellular fractions of liver, kidneys, spleen, and forebrain was studied. It was found that 24 h after a single intraperitoneal injection high levels of radioactivity were reached which decreased at different rates in the various tissues studied. In plasma, liver, and kidneys there was an initial rapid loss of radioactivity which was followed by a slower rate of loss. In the blood, forebrain, and spleen the loss of radioactivity was linear and somewhat slower than in the other three tissues. The cytosols of the liver and kidneys contained 60% while those of the forebrain and spleen contained 30% of the total radioactivity found in the tissue homogenates. Gel filtration on Sephadex G-75 showed that all cytosols contained two peaks of radioactivity; a high molecular weight peak which eluted just after the void volume and a low molecular weight peak. The amount of radioactivity in both peaks was, however, much lower in the chromatographic peaks of the forebrain and spleen than that found in those of the liver and kidneys. Furthermore, the spleen had a comparatively very small low molecular weight radioactive peak. In vitro experiments with liver cytosol showed similar results to those found in vivo in that the high molecular weight radioactive peak could be removed by heat. It is concluded that silver does enter cells and that silver thionein exists in the cytosols of forebrain, spleen, kidney, and liver.
Simultaneous synthesis of peptide libraries on single resin and continuous cellulose membrane supports: examples for the identification of protein, metal and DNA binding peptide mixtures.	Peptide libraries were simultaneously synthesized on single supports by double coupling 0.8 equivalents of an equimolar acylating amino acid mixture consisting of 19 amino acids (cysteine omitted) at randomized sites, thus compensating for the different coupling rates of the amino acids. Peptide epitope mixtures, as well as very complex mixtures such as a completely randomized hexapeptide, were prepared and analyzed by HPLC and amino acid analysis. The results obtained indicate that this method can be applied to the synthesis of peptide libraries. Parts of a simultaneously synthesized solution phase combinatorial library XXB1B2XX were successfully used for the detection of the linear epitope HFND of transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF alpha) recognized by the monoclonal antibody Tab2. Furthermore, novel combinatorial peptide libraries XXB1B2XX were prepared on continuous cellulose membrane supports, also allowing the identification of TGF alpha epitope sequences. In addition, peptide mixtures that bound to a double-stranded DNA (15mer) and silver were identified. These preliminary results indicate that cellulose-bound combinatorial peptide libraries can be used for the rapid and inexpensive screening of millions of peptides to identify single molecules that bind any given ligand such as proteins, nucleic acids and metals.
Bioaccumulation of vanadium and other trace metals in livers of Alaskan cetaceans and pinnipeds.	Concentrations for 38 elements are routinely measured in the marine mammal liver tissues archived in the National Biomonitoring Specimen Bank (NBSB). Results show that hepatic concentrations of vanadium, selenium, silver, cadmium, and mercury are positively correlated with age for beluga whales (Delphinapterus leucas) and of vanadium, selenium, cadmium, and mercury with length for ringed seals (Phoca hispada). Many researchers have reported linear correlations of hepatic selenium, cadmium, and mercury with marine mammal age; however, there is only one other report of a linear correlation of hepatic vanadium with marine mammal age. Vanadium levels are at or below detection limits (< or = 0.01 micrograms/g) in liver tissues of U.S. east coast marine mammals from the NBSB but are present at levels ranging from 0.02 to 1.2 micrograms/g of wet weight in the tissues of Alaskan marine mammals. Although only three bearded seal (Eriganthus barbatus) and three bow-head whale (Balaena mysticetus) liver samples have been analyzed, hepatic vanadium levels also increased with animal size for these species. The presence of relatively high levels of vanadium in the livers of these Alaskan animals may reflect a unique dietary source of vanadium, a unique geochemical source of vanadium, or anthropogenic input to the Alaskan marine environment.
Tryptophan residues in alpha-galactosidase from Trichoderma reesei.	Tryptophan residues in alpha-galactosidase were modified with bromosuccinimide. The fact that galactose, a specific inhibitor of alpha-galactosidase, does not prevent this modification demonstrates that tryptophan residues are not located in galactose binding sites. Analysis of the inactivation kinetics revealed two groups of Trp residues (8.5 and 7.5 residues) with different accessibility for N-bromosuccinimide. We studied specific quenching of alpha-galactosidase fluorescence resulting from modification of an sulfhydryl group in the active site of the enzyme with Hg2+ and Ag+ ions. The specific quenching is due to conformational changes of the enzyme. Forster's radii were determined for various protein--chromophore complexes. Dynamic quenching of alpha-galactosidase fluorescence was investigated. To describe abnormal dynamic quenching in alpha-galactosidase, a modification of the Stern--Volmer equation is suggested.
