Identification of protein kinases dysregulated in CD4(+) T cells in pathogenic versus apathogenic simian immunodeficiency virus infection.	Human immunodeficiency virus infection in humans and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infection in rhesus macaques (RM) leads to a generalized loss of immune responses involving perturbations in T-cell receptor (TCR) signaling. In contrast, naturally SIV-infected sooty mangabeys (SM) remain asymptomatic and retain immune responses despite relatively high viral loads. However, SIV infection in both RM and SM led to similar decreases in TCR-induced Lck phosphorylation. In this study, a protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) differential display method was utilized to characterize the effects of in vivo SIV infection on key signaling molecules of the CD4(+) T-cell signaling pathways. The CD4(+) T cells from SIV-infected RM, but not SIV-infected SM, showed chronic downregulation of baseline expression of MLK3, PRK, and GSK3, and symptomatically SIV-infected RM showed similar downregulation of MKK3. In vitro TCR stimulation with or without CD28 costimulation of CD4(+) T cells did not lead to the enhancement of gene transcription of these PTKs. While the CD4(+) T cells from SIV-infected RM showed a significant increase of the baseline and anti-TCR-mediated ROR2 transcription, SIV infection in SM led to substantially decreased anti-TCR-stimulated ROR2 transcription. TCR stimulation of CD4(+) T cells from SIV-infected RM (but not SIV-infected SM) led to the repression of CaMKKbeta and the induction of gene transcription of MLK2. Studies of the function of these molecules in T-cell signaling may lead to the identification of potential targets for specific intervention, leading to the restoration of T-cell responses.
Patterns of gene expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of rhesus macaques infected with SIVmac251 and exhibiting differential rates of disease progression.	Using the Affymetrix HuGeneFL GeneChip, the global expression patterns of genes in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of rhesus macaques, infected with SIVmac251 and exhibiting rapid, typical, or slow rates of disease progression, were examined. Assessments of the change in gene expression (fold change), the temporal coordination of gene expression (self-organizing map analysis), and the similarities and significant differences in gene expression across the groups were performed on samples taken before infection and 3 and 7 weeks postinfection. An upregulation of the p27 interferon-inducible gene and of genes associated with cellular activation and immune response was observed in all three groups. Rapidly progressing animals exhibited a modest number of genes with a change in expression of 3-fold or greater, typically progressing animals exhibited the greatest number, and slowly progressing animals exhibited the fewest. Self-organizing map cluster analysis indicated that rapidly progressing animals exhibited the least coordinated gene expression over the three study time points, typically progressing animals exhibited a moderate degree, and animals with slow progression exhibited the most coordinated gene expression. Mann-Whitney U analysis indicated that differences in gene expression were most pronounced between the rapidly and slowly progressing groups and least pronounced between the rapidly and typically progressing animals. These observations elucidate distinct features of gene expression in animals with different rates of disease progression.
Transmission, acute HIV-1 infection and the quest for strategies to prevent infection.	By the acute stage of HIV-1 infection, the immune system already faces daunting challenges. Research on mucosal barriers and the events immediately after heterosexual transmission that precede this acute stage could facilitate the development of effective microbicides and vaccines.
HIV-1 pathogenesis.	Despite considerable advances in HIV science in the past 20 years, the reason why HIV-1 infection is pathogenic is still debated and the goal of eradicating HIV-1 infection remains elusive. A deeper understanding of the interplay between HIV-1 and its host and why simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) is nonpathogenic in some natural hosts may provide a few answers.
Chemokine induction by HIV-1: recruitment to the cause.	Immunomodulation frequently occurs during viral infections; the mechanisms of which are continually being defined at the cellular and tissue levels. Recently, a study of the effects of HIV-1 on dendritic cells (DCs) identified inflammatory chemokines as highly upregulated during HIV-1 infection and during viral Tat expression in monocyte-derived DCs. It is becoming increasingly clear that HIV-1 has evolved multiple strategies to ensure the maintenance of a local pool of susceptible cells for additional rounds of virus replication.
SHIV transmission and susceptibility to re-exposure through social contact following vaccination with an HIV synthetic peptide-cocktail: a case study.	An effective vaccine against human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) should not only protect from infection and development of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), but also prevent potential transmission to naïve partners. We recently reported protection of rhesus macaques from chronic simian-human immunodeficiency virus (SHIV) infection and AIDS by an HIV envelope peptide-cocktail vaccine. In the present case study, we observed that one of the vaccinated females, with undetectable circulating virus, when housed in a pair with a naïve male, did not transmit the infection over a 35-week period of social contact. Subsequent experimental challenge of the male with the same SHIV strain resulted in high-level infection and transmission to its female cage-mate. However, the virus was undetectable in the female by 12 weeks without further vaccination, validating the multivalent peptide cocktail vaccine approach in the SHIV-rhesus model, and suggesting its potential utility as an HIV vaccine strategy for humans.
A prospective longitudinal in vivo 1H MR spectroscopy study of the SIV/macaque model of neuroAIDS.	The neurological complications of HIV infection remain poorly understood. Clinically, in vivo 1H magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) demonstrates brain injury caused by HIV infection even when the MRI is normal. Our goal was to undertsand the dynamics of cerebral injury by performing a longitudinal in vivo 1H MRS study of the SIV/macaque model of neuroAIDS.
Elevated expression of GM3 in receptor-bearing targets confers resistance to human immunodeficiency virus type 1 fusion.	GM3, a major ganglioside of T lymphocytes, promotes human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) entry via interactions with HIV-1 receptors and the viral envelope glycoprotein (Env). Increased GM3 levels in T lymphocytes and the appearance of anti-GM3 antibodies in AIDS patients have been reported earlier. In this study, we investigated the effect of GM3 regulation on HIV-1 entry by utilizing a mouse cell line (B16F10), which expresses exceptionally high levels of GM3. Strikingly, B16 cells bearing CD4, CXCR4, and/or CCR5 were highly resistant to CD4-dependent HIV-1 Env-mediated membrane fusion. In contrast, these targets supported membrane fusion mediated by CD4-requiring HIV-2, SIV, and CD4-independent HIV-1 Envs. Coreceptor function was not impaired by GM3 overexpression as indicated by Ca(2+) fluxes mediated by the CXCR4 ligand SDF-1alpha and the CCR5 ligand MIP-1beta. Reduction in GM3 levels of B16 target cells resulted in a significant recovery of CD4-dependent HIV-1 Env-mediated fusion. We propose that GM3 in the plasma membrane blocks HIV-1 Env-mediated fusion by interfering with the lateral association of HIV-1 receptors. Our findings offer a novel mechanism of interplay between membrane lipids and receptors by which host cells may escape viral infections.
Production of infectious SIVagm from human cells requires functional inactivation but not viral exclusion of human APOBEC3G.	The virus infectivity factor (Vif) is a protein encoded by most primate lentiviruses. Recent evidence suggests that HIV-1 Vif reduces the intracellular levels of the host cytidine deaminase APOBEC3G (Apo3G) and inhibits its packaging into virions. These functions of Vif are thought to be species-specific. Accordingly, HIV-1 Vif can target only human Apo3G (hApo3G), whereas, African green monkey simian immunodeficiency virus (SIVagm) Vif can inhibit African green monkey but not human Apo3G. Consistent with this, we found that SIVagm Vif does not affect the stability of exogenously and endogenously expressed hApo3G and does not prevent packaging of exogenous and endogenous hApo3G into SIVagm virions. Nevertheless, SIVagm Vif supported spreading infection of SIVagm virus in the hApo3G-positive human A3.01 T cell line and rescued infectivity of viruses produced from Apo3G-expressing HeLa cells. Sequence analysis verified that SIVagm Vif inhibited the accumulation of hApo3G-induced mutations, suggesting that SIVagm Vif is indeed active in human cells. Our data suggest that SIVagm Vif can inhibit hApo3G activity without inducing its intracellular degradation or preventing its packaging into virions.
Clinical latency and reactivation of AIDS-related mycobacterial infections.	The immune mechanisms associated with the evolution from latent to clinically active mycobacterial coinfection in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1)-infected humans remain poorly understood. Previous work has demonstrated that macaques infected with simian immunodeficiency virus (SIVmac) can develop persistent Mycobacterium bovis BCG coinfection and a fatal SIV-related tuberculosis-like disease by 4 months after BCG inoculation. In the present study, SIVmac-infected monkeys that developed clinically quiescent mycobacterial infection after BCG inoculation were followed prospectively for the reactivation of the BCG and the development of SIV-related tuberculosis-like disease. The development of clinically latent BCG coinfection in these SIVmac-infected monkeys was characterized by a change from high to undetectable levels of bacterial organisms, with or without measurable BCG mRNA expression in lymph node cells. The reactivation of clinically latent BCG coinfection and development of SIV-related tuberculosis-like disease were then observed in these SIVmac-BCG-coinfected monkeys during a 21-month period of follow-up. The reactivation of SIV-related tuberculosis-like disease in these animals coincided with a severe depletion of CD4 T cells and a loss of BCG-specific T-cell responses. Interestingly, bacterial superantigen challenge of the SIVmac-BCG-coinfected monkeys resulted in an up-regulation of clinically latent BCG coinfection, suggesting that infection with superantigen-producing microbes may increase the susceptibility of individuals to the reactivation of AIDS-related mycobacterial coinfection. Thus, reactivation of latent mycobacterial infections in HIV-1-infected individuals may result from a loss of T-cell immunity or from a superimposed further compromise of the immune system.
A period of transient viremia and occult infection precedes persistent viremia and antiviral immune responses during multiple low-dose intravaginal simian immunodeficiency virus inoculations.	In rhesus macaques, classic systemic infection, characterized by persistent viremia and seroconversion, occurred after multiple low-dose (10(3) 50% tissue culture infective doses) intravaginal (IVAG) inoculations with simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) strain SIVmac251. Monkeys developed classic SIV infections after a variable number of low-dose IVAG exposures to SIVmac251. Once established, the systemic infection was identical to SIV infection following high-dose IVAG SIV inoculation. However, occult systemic infection characterized by transient cell-associated or cell-free viremia consistently occurred early in the series of multiple vaginal SIV exposures. Further, antiviral cellular immune responses were present prior to the establishment of a classic systemic infection in the low-dose vaginal SIV transmission model.
Limited role for the thymus in SIV pathogenesis.	The role of the thymus in the pathogenesis of AIDS is a frequently discussed and controversial topic. Tuttleton Arron et al. studied the role of thymic output in SIV infection directly, by comparing the dynamics of TCR excision circles and CD4(+ )and CD8(+) T cell numbers in healthy and in SIV-infected euthymic and thymectomized rhesus macaques. In this issue of the European Journal of Immunology, they report that complete abrogation of thymic output in juvenile rhesus macaques has very little impact on the peripheral T cell compartment, both in healthy and in SIV-infected macaques. Their data therefore suggest that the main cause of CD4(+) T cell loss during SIV infection is the peripheral effect of SIV, and not its effect on thymic output.
Contrasting effects of natural selection on human and chimpanzee CC chemokine receptor 5.	Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) evolved via cross-species transmission of simian immunodeficiency virus (SIVcpz) from chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes). Chimpanzees, like humans, are susceptible to infection by HIV-1. However, unlike humans, infected chimpanzees seldom develop immunodeficiency when infected with SIVcpz or HIV-1. SIVcpz and most strains of HIV-1 require the cell-surface receptor CC chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5) to infect specific leukocyte subsets, and, subsequent to infection, the level of CCR5 expression influences the amount of HIV-1 entry and the rate of HIV-1 replication. Evidence that variants in the 5' cis-regulatory region of CCR5 (5'CCR5) affect disease progression in humans suggests that variation in CCR5 might also influence the response of chimpanzees to HIV-1/SIVcpz. To determine whether patterns of genetic variation at 5'CCR5 in chimpanzees are similar to those in humans, we analyzed patterns of DNA sequence variation in 37 wild-born chimpanzees (26 P. t. verus, 9 P. t. troglodytes, and 2 P. t. schweinfurthii), along with previously published 5'CCR5 data from 112 humans and 50 noncoding regions in the human and chimpanzee genomes. These analyses revealed that patterns of variation in 5'CCR5 differ dramatically between chimpanzees and humans. In chimpanzees, 5'CCR5 was less diverse than 80% of noncoding regions and was characterized by an excess of rare variants. In humans, 5'CCR5 was more diverse than 90% of noncoding regions and had an excess of common variants. Under a wide range of demographic histories, these patterns suggest that, whereas human 5'CCR5 has been subject to balancing selection, chimpanzee 5'CCR5 has been influenced by a selective sweep. This result suggests that chimpanzee 5'CCR5 might harbor or be linked to functional variants that influence chimpanzee resistance to disease caused by SIVcpz/HIV-1.
Rearrangement of simian virus 40 regulatory region is not required for induction of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy in immunosuppressed rhesus monkeys.	Rearrangements of the JC virus (JCV) regulatory region (RR) are consistently found in the brains of patients with progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), whereas the archetype RR is present in their kidneys. In addition, the C terminus of the large T antigen (T-Ag) shows greater variability in PML than does the rest of the coding region. To determine whether similar changes in simian virus 40 (SV40) are necessary for disease induction in monkeys, we sequenced the SV40 RR and the C terminus of the T-Ag from the brain of simian/human immunodeficiency virus (SHIV)-infected monkey 18429, which presented spontaneously with an SV40-associated PML-like disease, as well as from the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), kidneys, and brains of SV40-seronegative, SHIV-infected monkeys 21289 and 21306, which were inoculated with the 18429 brain SV40 isolate. These animals developed both SV40-associated PML and meningoencephalitis. Thirteen types of SV40 RR were characterized. Compared to the SV40 archetype, we identified RRs with variable deletions in either the origin of replication, the 21-bp repeat elements, or the late promoter, as well as deletions or duplications of the 72-bp enhancer. The archetype was the most prominent RR in the brain of monkey 18429. Shortly after inoculation, a wide range of RRs could be found in the PBMC of monkeys 21289 and 21306. However, the archetype RR became the predominant type in their blood, kidneys, and brains at the time of sacrifice. On the contrary, the T-Ag C termini remained identical in all compartments of the three animals. These results indicate that unlike JCV in humans, rearrangements of SV40 RR are not required for brain disease induction in immunosuppressed monkeys.
PRA1 co-localizes with envelope but does not influence primate lentivirus production, infectivity or envelope incorporation.	The results of yeast and mammalian two-hybrid assays previously indicated complex formation between prenylated Rab acceptor 1 (PRA1) and the cytoplasmic domain of gp41 (gp41CD) for both the human and simian immunodeficiency viruses [Evans, D. T., Tilman, K. C. & Desrosiers, R. C. (2002). J Virol 76, 327-337]. The assembly and release of infectious virus particles was studied under conditions of PRA1 overexpression in a transient transfection assay or suppression by RNA interference. Although a clear pattern of co-localization of PRA1 and gp41 was observed, no changes in virion release, infectivity or envelope content were observed as a result of either PRA1 suppression or overexpression. These data show that PRA1 co-localizes with gp41 inside cells and they are consistent with a direct or indirect interaction between these proteins. However, variation in the levels of PRA1 expression did not influence virion production, infectivity or envelope incorporation under the conditions of these assays.
Incorporation of chimeric HIV-SIV-Env and modified HIV-Env proteins into HIV pseudovirions.	Low level incorporation of the viral glycoprotein (Env) into human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) particles is a major drawback for vaccine strategies against HIV/AIDS in which HIV particles are used as immunogen. Within this study, we have examined two strategies aimed at achieving higher levels of Env incorporation into non-infectious pseudovirions (PVs). First, we have generated chimeric HIV/SIV Env proteins containing the truncated C-terminal tail region of simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)mac239-Env767(stop), which mediates strongly increased incorporation of SIV-Env into SIV particles. In a second strategy, we have employed a truncated HIV-Env protein (Env-Tr752(N750K)) which we have previously demonstrated to be incorporated into HIV virions, generated in infected T-cells, to a higher level than that of Wt-HIV-Env. Although the chimeric HIV/SIV Env proteins were expressed at the cell surface and induced increased levels of cell-cell fusion in comparison to Wt-HIV-Env, they did not exhibit increased incorporation into either HIV-PVs or SIV-PVs. Only Env-Tr752(N750K) exhibited significantly higher (threefold) levels of incorporation into HIV-PVs, an improvement, which, although not dramatic, is worthwhile for the large-scale preparation of non-infectious PVs for vaccine studies aimed at inducing Env humoral responses.
Failure to detect simian immunodeficiency virus infection in a large Cameroonian cohort with high non-human primate exposure.	Hunting and butchering of wildlife in Central Africa are known risk factors for a variety of human diseases, including HIV/AIDS. Due to the high incidence of human exposure to body fluids of non-human primates, the significant prevalence of simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) in non-human primates, and hunting/butchering associated cross-species transmission of other retroviruses in Central Africa, it is possible that SIV is actively transmitted to humans from primate species other than mangabeys, chimpanzees, and/or gorillas. We evaluated SIV transmission to humans by screening 2,436 individuals that hunt and butcher non-human primates, a population in which simian foamy virus and simian T-lymphotropic virus were previously detected. We identified 23 individuals with high seroreactivity to SIV. Nucleic acid sequences of SIV genes could not be detected, suggesting that SIV infection in humans could occur at a lower frequency than infections with other retroviruses, including simian foamy virus and simian T-lymphotropic virus. Additional studies on human populations at risk for non-human primate zoonosis are necessary to determine whether these results are due to viral/host characteristics or are indicative of low SIV prevalence in primate species consumed as bushmeat as compared to other retroviruses in Cameroon.
Apoptosis occurs predominantly in bystander cells and not in productively infected cells of HIV- and SIV-infected lymph nodes.	Although 13 years have passed since identification of human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) as the cause of AIDS, we do not yet know how HIV kills its primary target, the T cell that carries the CD4 antigen. We and others have shown an increase in the percentage of apoptotic cells among circulating CD4+ (and CD8+) T cells of HIV-seropositive individuals and an increase in frequency of apoptosis with disease progression. However, it is not known if this apoptosis occurs in infected or uninfected T cells. We show here, using in situ labelling of lymph nodes from HIV-infected children and SIV-infected macaques, that apoptosis occurs predominantly in bystander cells and not in the productively infected cells themselves. These data have implications for pathogenesis and therapy, namely, arguing that rational drug therapy may involve combination agents targeting viral replication in infected cells and apoptosis of uninfected cells.
MHC-I non-restricted cytotoxic activity in Macaca sylvana experimentally inoculated with HIV2 and SIV/mac.	The anti-retrovirus cell-mediated immunity was repeatedly investigated in seven monkeys (Macaca sylvana). Four of these animals were injected with cell-free supernatants containing human immunodeficiency viruses: two monkeys received HIV1 Bru (2.5 x 10(6) cpm), two received HIV2 Rod (1.5 x 10(6) cpm). Two additional animals were injected with a cell-free supernatant containing simian immunodeficiency virus SIV/mac 251 (1.5 x 10(6) cpm) and the last animal served as control. The four macaques infected with HIV2 Rod and SIV/mac 251 seroconverted. Freshly isolated and non stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells from these infected macaques and from the uninfected control were repeatedly assessed for cytolytic activity. Target cells consisted of heterologous human cell lines expressing HIV1 Bru, HIV2 Rod or SIV/mac proteins. A significant cytotoxic activity, non-restricted at the major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I), was demonstrated in one HIV2 Rod-infected animal (F8) and in one SIV/mac 251-infected animal (M1). This last animal showed progressively diminishing cytolytic activity that was correlated with a pronounced decrease in CD4+ lymphocytes. An AIDS-like disease developed in M1, with presence of lymphadenopathy, weight loss, diarrhea and opportunistic infections. Cytotoxic activity was active against SIV and HIV2-infected target cells in an MHC-unrestricted manner; it was specific to virus-infected cells and there was cross-reactivity between HIV2 and SIV. Cytotoxic effectors appeared to be mainly CD8+ cells. This model may prove to be very useful in evaluating the capacity of candidate AIDS vaccines to elicit effective cell-mediated immune responses.
Simian immunodeficiency virus SIVsmmPBj 1.9 induces multinucleated giant cell formation in human peripheral blood monocytes.	SIVsmmPBJ 1.9 is an extremely virulent clone of the simian immunodeficiency virus SIVsmmPBj 14 that causes an acute lethal disease in pigtail macaques, with death occurring 6 to 8 days after infection. The disease is characterized by bloody mucoid diarrhea, lymphoid hyperplasia, and giant cell pneumonia. We have developed an in vitro model for the production of multinucleated giant cells (MGCs) in which peripheral blood monocytes rapidly fuse to form MGCs when cultured in lymphocyte-conditioned medium and antibody against class II MHC. We have tested the effect of SIVsmmPBj on monocytes in our MGC model system. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from normal healthy human subjects, when cultured in the presence of anti-class II MHC monoclonal antibody and SIVsmmPBj 1.9, but not either alone, resulted in the formation of MGCs within 4 days. Experiments using Transwell chambers indicated that such MGCs are formed by fusion of monocytes, not by virus-induced fusion of lymphocytes. SIVsmmPBj 1.9 is unique in inducing MGC formation in that other SIV and HIV isolates do not induce MGCs. Whereas SIVsmmPBj 1.9 grown in PBMCs was a potent inducer of MGCs in the presence of anti-class II MHC antibody, SIVsmmPBj 1.9 grown in CEMx174 failed to do so. Antibodies against IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha significantly inhibited SIVsmmPBj/anti-class II-induced formation of MGCs. These results indicate that cytokines released in response to SIVsmmPBj 1.9, in conjunction with antibodies to class II MHC, caused fusion of monocytes.
Infectivity and pathogenesis of titered dosages of simian immunodeficiency virus experimentally inoculated into longtailed macaques (Macaca fascicularis).	The 50% macaque infectious dose (MID50) and pathogenesis of uncloned simian immunodeficiency virus (isolated from a pigtailed macaque, SIVmne) was determined in longtailed macaques (Macaca fascicularis). Five pairs of macaques were inoculated with 10-fold dilutions of the virus stock, and one macaque was mock-infected. The virologic and clinical status of these macaques was monitored for up to 80 weeks. The MID50 of SIVmne was determined to be 10(2) cell culture infectious dose of the original virus stock. In order to test the infectivity and pathogenesis of an established viral dose, six additional macaques were inoculated with 10x MID50 (10(3) cell culture infectious dose) of the SIVmne. The virologic and clinical status of these macaques was monitored for 40 weeks. All of the macaques inoculated with 10x MID50 or greater became infected as evidenced by seroconversion and consistent virus isolation from peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Macaques infected with SIVmne had an initial sharp decrease in CD2, CD20, CD4, CD8, and CD4CD29 lymphocyte subsets, whereas the CD4:CD8 ratio increased. Viremic macaques developed persistent slight to moderate peripheral lymphadenopathy approximately 3 to 4 weeks after inoculation. Four macaques subsequently died of AIDS-like disease at 29, 33, 42, and 80 weeks after inoculation. Data obtained from the viral titration study and the acute infection model will aid in the development of animal trials to evaluate antiretroviral therapies and preventive vaccines against human immunodeficiency virus infection.
Langerhans cells in oral mucosa of rhesus monkeys before and after infection by simian retrovirus-1 and simian immunodeficiency virus.	To study the influence of experimental infection with simian retrovirus-1 and simian immunodeficiency virus on the number and distribution of Langerhans cells in oral mucosa of rhesus monkeys, 10 monkeys were intravenously inoculated with simian retrovirus-1, 7 with simian immunodeficiency virus, and 2 were mock-inoculated. Biopsies were taken from gingiva and cheek pouch before infection and at 1 (simian immunodeficiency virus group only), 4, and 7 months after infection. Langerhans cells were detected in frozen sections by immunohistochemistry with monoclonal antibodies Leu-6 and HLA-DR. The mean number of Langerhans cells per surface millimeter and square millimeter of epithelium was calculated under blind conditions. The results showed no statistically significant differences in the number or distribution of Langerhans cells in the three groups at the various time points of examination. Similarly, no differences were detected within any group over the observation period. Thus systemic infection of rhesus monkeys with either simian retrovirus-1 or simian immunodeficiency virus does not lead to a significant change in the number of Langerhans cells in oral mucosal epithelium.
Astrocytes and lentivirus infection in an experimental models of macaque infected with SIVmac251]	The present study demonstrates the susceptibility of astrocytes to infection with SIVmac251. Indeed, primary cultures of astrocytes derived from simian adult brains, can be infected in vitro with the SIVmac251. Results show that SIVmac251 establishes a persistent infection in primary astroglial cultures and that viral replication can be reactivated by TNF-alpha, GM-CSF, IFN-gamma. Viral proteins as Nef, Rev, Vpx and occasionally gp120/160 are evidenced by immunocytochemistry. In vivo SIVmac251 and/or HIV-2 infected astrocytes have been isolated from brains of macaques following ex vivo primary cultures. The whole of these results demonstrated that, in this model, SIV establishes a persistent state of infection of astrocytes, that viral replication can be reactivated by cytokines and moreover suggest strongly an in vivo infection of astrocytes in the brain of these infected macaques.
Neurovirulent simian immunodeficiency virus induces calbindin-D-28K in astrocytes.	Astrocyte activation has been postulated to be a major contributor to functional changes in the brain of AIDS patients. We assessed astrocyte activation in the simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) model. Four groups of macaque brains were examined: uninoculated controls, animals inoculated with virus that did not cause disease, animals inoculated with virus that caused AIDS but did not cause encephalitis, and animals with SIV encephalitis. We examined expression of calbindin-D-28K, a calcium binding protein that is upregulated in astrocytes during excitotoxic events, as well as glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). The presence of calbindin in astrocytes was confirmed by double-labeling using confocal microscopy. Increases in calbindin staining were most apparent in the white matter, but increases in GFAP staining were most apparent in middle layers of the cerebral cortex. Six of the seven animals with SIV encephalitis had calbindin immunoreactive astrocytes in the subcortical white matter, corpus callosum, internal capsule, cerebral peduncle, pontine white matter, and cerebellar white matter. Very rarely, a few, very lightly calbindin-immunoreactive astrocytes were present in the uninoculated control brains. The increase in calbindin expression by astrocytes in SIV encephalitis suggests that these cells are subject to calcium toxicity. In uninoculated control macaques, and in macaques inoculated with virus that did not cause disease, GFAP-immunoreactive astrocytes were present throughout the subcortical white matter and in layer I, but very few were found in layers III-V of the cerebral cortex. Two animals that died of AIDS without encephalitis had somewhat higher numbers of GFAP immunoreactive astrocytes in middle cortical layers. In seven animals that received passaged neurovirulent virus and developed both AIDS and encephalitis, the number of GFAP-immunoreactive astrocytes in middle cortical layers was high, indicating widespread astrocyte activation.
