DNA damage effects of a polyamide-CBI conjugate in SV40 virions.	Polyamides are a class of synthetic molecules that exhibit high-affinity, sequence-specific reversible binding in the DNA minor groove but are incapable of inducing DNA damage. In cell-free systems, polyamides have been shown to regulate gene expression by activation, repression, and antirepression. However, effectiveness in cell culture has met with limited success and seems to be cell-dependent. By combining a polyamide with a moiety of a DNA-alkylating agent of the cyclopropylpyrroloindole (CPI) family, a conjugate molecule [polyamide 1-CBI (1-(chloromethyl)-5-hydroxyl-1,2-dihydro-3H-benz[e]indole) conjugate] capable of sequence-specific DNA alkylation was shown to exhibit cellular activity (i.e., cell-growth inhibition and cell-cycle arrest) in mammalian cells. These effects, however, occur at concentrations several orders of magnitude higher than those of its parent CPI agent adozelesin. In addition, 1-CBI is able to interact sequence-specifically with viral DNA and inhibit SV40 DNA replication in infected BSC-1 (African green monkey kidney epithelial) cells, albeit at a greatly reduced ability compared with its CPI parent. On the basis of results from previous studies, we tested whether pretreatment of virus with 1-CBI, compared with direct treatment of infected cells, would enhance its cellular activity. Therefore, using SV40 virions as a model system, we examined the ability of this conjugate molecule to penetrate SV40 virions and damage viral DNA. Our results demonstrate that 1-CBI is able to damage encapsidated SV40 DNA. Both DNA replication and virus production are effectively inhibited in a concentration-dependent manner after infection of BSC-1 cells with 1-CBI-pretreated virions. It is surprising that, unlike in mammalian cells, the relative activity of 1-CBI in SV40 virions is comparable with that of the highly cytotoxic CPI agent adozelesin. Because 1-CBI is able to efficiently penetrate virions and damage DNA, these findings may provide the framework for the development of polyamide-based antiviral agents with enhanced sequence-preference capabilities.
DNA strand breakage by bivalent metal ions and ionizing radiation.	To investigate mechanisms of DNA breakage via the interaction of bivalent metal ion, thiol reducing agent and ionizing radiation, in *OH scavenging abilities comparable to those in cells.
Site-dependent inhibition by single O6-methylguanine bases of SV40 T-antigen interactions with the viral origin of replication.	The effects of O6-methylguanine on the reactions involved in initiation of DNA replication were investigated by measuring the interactions of SV40 T antigen with oligonucleotides substituted with the methylated base. O6-Methylguanine residues were positioned in either binding site I or binding site II of the SV40 origin of replication. Binding of purified T antigen, measured by both nitrocellulose filter binding and delayed oligonucleotide migration, was unaffected by the presence of seven methylated bases in binding site II. Single substitutions within binding site I were sufficient to inhibit T-antigen binding, and the extent of inhibition was dependent on the position of O6-methylguanine in the DNA sequence. Unwinding by T antigen was analyzed by measuring displacement of a single-stranded oligonucleotide from similarly substituted, partially duplex substrates. The presence of three O6-methylguanine residues in binding site I facilitated the helicase activity of T antigen. In contrast, single O6-methylguanine bases inhibited unwinding. A correlation was observed between the position of the methylated base and the inhibition of both binding and unwinding by T antigen.
Cooperative assembly of simian virus 40 T-antigen hexamers on functional halves of the replication origin.	The cofactor ATP stimulates the formation of T-antigen double hexamers on the simian virus 40 core origin of replication (I. A. Mastrangelo, P. V. C. Hough, J. S. Wall, M. Dodson, F. B. Dean, and J. Horwitz, Nature [London] 338:658-662, 1989). We report here the pathway for the assembly of hexamers and double hexamers on the core origin. ATP triggers the cooperative assembly of hexamers on the early and late halves of the origin even when they are completely isolated. Hexamer assembly nucleates at T-antigen recognition pentanucleotides in the early half of the origin. In intact origins, assembly of the first hexamer on the early half of the origin cooperatively stimulates the assembly of a second hexamer on the adjacent late half of the origin. Thus, monomer-monomer and hexamer-hexamer interactions of T antigen, allosterically activated by ATP, constitute two distinct types of cooperative interaction with the origin. Finally, we show that the assembly of T-antigen hexamers on isolated half origins leads to the same array of structural changes that T antigen induces in intact origins. We conclude that the origin is divided into complementary halves that each promote the assembly of functional T-antigen hexamers.
Measurement of bleomycin, neocarzinostatin, and auromomycin cleavage of cell-free and intracellular simian virus 40 DNA and chromatin.	Simian virus 40 (SV40) was used as a model for eukaryotic chromatin to allow analysis of strand scission drug action on DNA of the same nucleotide sequence in different environments. Cleavage of purified DNA, cell-free chromatin, and intracellular chromatin by the antitumor drugs bleomycin, neocarzinostatin, and auromomycin was assayed. Comparison of total (single-and double-stranded) drug-induced cutting of purified SV40 DNA and isolated viral minichromosomes, as measured by the conversion of supercoiled DNA to the nicked circular form, revealed that a 2-3-fold higher concentration of all three drugs is required to cut minichromosomes as extensively as naked DNA. In addition, differences in drug activity on cell-free nuclear viral chromatin and intracellular SV40 chromatin were measured. Three times more auromomycin was needed to cut intracellular SV40 DNA as extensively as the viral DNA in isolated nuclei, whereas, surprisingly, the increases in bleomycin and neocarzinostatin concentrations were 200-fold and 1000-fold respectively. When the drugs were used to treat SV40-infected cells, no repair of strand scissions was detected. Formation of double-stranded breaks by bleomycin, neocarzinostatin, and automomycin, measured at equivalent levels of total cleavage, was also examined to provide information on the distribution of strand scissions in different environments. Nucleoproteins were found to cause a 3-fold higher level of neocarzinostatin-induced double-stranded breaks to be made on isolated minichromosomes than on purified DNA, but they had no effect on double-stranded break formation by either bleomycin or auromomycin. In contrast, auromomycin made twice as many double-stranded breaks on intracellular SV40 DNA as on minichromosomes in isolated nuclei. However, neither bleomycin- nor neocarzinostatin-induced double-stranded breaks on intracellular SV40 DNA were significantly different from those made on SV40 in isolated nuclei.
Inhibition of expression of SV40 virus large T-antigen by antisense oligodeoxyribonucleotides.	Expression of large T-antigen in COS cells can be inhibited by treatment of cell monolayers with oligodeoxyribonucleotides complementary to large T mRNA, which were covalently linked to poly-L-lysine. Strongest inhibition was observed with conjugates of oligodeoxynucleotides that hybridize to the sequence immediately 3' to the cap structure of the mRNA. Treatment of SV40 virus-infected CV-1 cells with the same conjugates reduces the virus-induced large T-antigen expression by more than 80%.
Simian virus 40 infection is not mediated by lysosomal activation.	The uptake of simian virus 40 (SV40) virions to the nucleus, the site of viral replication, proceeds via engulfment at the cytoplasmic membrane and transport in monopinocytotic vesicles through the cytoplasm to the nuclear membrane. In the case of Semliki Forest virus and poliovirus which undergo primary endocytosis in a similar manner, neutralization of the acid pH in these vesicles abolishes viral infectivity. We have examined the effects of the lysosomotropic agents chloroquine and ammonium chloride on the uptake of SV40 and find that neutralization of the acid pH in cellular organelles has no effect on the progress of SV40 infection. Although the initial endocytotic pathway appears similar for the viruses, the vesicular transport of SV40 to the nucleus proceeds, therefore, via an alternative endocytotic compartment which is not inhibited by increasing the endosomal pH.
Inhibition of simian virus 40 DNA replication in vitro by poly(ADP-ribosyl)ated diadenosine tetraphosphate.	Poly(ADP-ribosyl)ated diadenosine tetraphosphate was found to inhibit the in vitro replication of SV40 DNA. This inhibition was sensitive to preincubation of the polymer with either poly(ADP-ribose) glycohydrolase, diadenosine tetraphosphate (Ap4A):ADP phosphohydrolase, or an excess of free Ap4A. In contrast, the general catalytic activity of DNA polymerase was not inhibited by the poly(ADP-ribosyl)ated Ap4A when activated salmon sperm DNA was used as a template. These data suggest that inhibition of SV40 DNA replication by poly(ADP-ribosyl)ated Ap4A requires both the intact polymer and intact Ap4A moiety and is specific to events occurring during the initiation or elongation of a double-stranded template. Since both poly(ADP-ribose) and Ap4A accumulate in cultured mammalian cells following stresses which are accompanied by DNA strand breaks, these data are consistent with a model in which poly(ADP-ribosyl)ated Ap4A inhibits DNA replication following DNA damage.
Novobiocin inhibits the SV40 enhancer activity.	Using a transient expression assay, we have analysed the effect of novobiocin, DNA topoisomerase II inhibitor, on simian virus 40(SV40) enhancer activities. We used the recombinant clones containing type I or II collagen promoters placed upstream of the bacterial chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) gene with or without SV40 enhancer. We observed the expected increase in CAT activities due to the presence of the SV40 enhancer. Interestingly, CAT gene expression of the enhancer-containing constructs were inhibited more sensitively by novobiocin than that of the enhancer-less construct. This findings lead us propose that DNA superhelicity mediated by topoisomeraseII is one of the important factor for the manifestation of SV40 enhancer activity.
Effects of inhibitors of the cytoplasmic structures and functions on the early phase of infection of cultured cells with simian virus 40.	To obtain information about cytoplasmic structures and functions involving the entry of simian virus 40 virions into cells, we examined whether the inhibitors that affect the functions and/or structure of lysosomes, cell membrane, and cytoskeletons inhibit expression of nuclear T antigen in the SV40-inoculated rat 3Y1 and monkey CV-1 cells. Chloroquine, methylamine, and butylamine did not inhibit T-antigen expression, suggesting that lysosomal acidification is not required for establishment of infection. Cytochalasin B had no effect, suggesting that microfilaments are not involved. Monensin, colcemid, and amantadine each inhibited T-antigen expression at doses causing no obvious cytotoxicity. Maximal inhibition was seen when these inhibitors were added to the cultures within 1 hr (monensin), within 4 hr (colcemid), or within 12 hr (amantadine) after virion adsorption to the cell surface. When the inhibitor was present in the virus-inoculated cultures for 24 hr and then removed, nuclear T antigen began to be expressed at 4 hr (monensin), 9 hr (colcemid), or 1 hr (amantadine) after removal of the inhibitors. Results of SDS-PAGE analysis of immunoprecipitated radiolabeled proteins of infected cells revealed that amantadine inhibited synthesis of large and small T antigens as well as general protein synthesis. Inhibition by colcemid may be due to disruption of microtubules, because other microtubule-disrupting agents (colchicine, vinblastine, nocodazole, and podophyllotoxin) also inhibited appearance of nuclear T antigen but lumicolchicine and taxol did not. Electron microscopy revealed that, in the presence of colcemid, although the adsorbed virions were readily internalized to form pinosomes, vectorial movement of the pinosomes to the nucleus appeared to be inhibited. Results of electron microscopy also suggest that inhibition by monensin may occur mainly in internalization of adsorbed virions and that the inhibition is leaky such that the early steps of infection proceed slowly in the presence of monensin. We conclude that monensin, colcemid, and amantadine interfere with mutually different early events of SV40 infection.
Quinobenoxazines: a class of novel antitumor quinolones and potent mammalian DNA topoisomerase II catalytic inhibitors.	The antineoplastic quinobenoxazines A-62176 and A-74932 were shown to be potent inhibitors of mammalian DNA topoisomerase II in vivo. This was demonstrated by their selective inhibition of the SV40 DNA replication stages that require topoisomerase II. Neither drug stabilized a covalent complex of the enzyme with SV40 DNA, which suggests that they are not poisons of DNA topoisomerase II. A-77601, an analog having little antitumor activity, barely inhibited DNA topoisomerase II in vivo, even at high concentrations. These findings were supported by in vitro studies which showed that A-62176 and A-74932, but not A-77601, strongly inhibited the catalytic activity of mammalian DNA topoisomerase II. A-62176 did not cause topoisomerase II-mediated DNA strand breaks in vitro under conditions in which adriamycin produced extensive DNA breakage. The antineoplastic and topoisomerase inhibitory activities of the quinobenoxazines correlate with their ability to unwind DNA. A-62176 antagonized the poisoning of topoisomerase II by VM-26 in vivo and in vitro, but had no effect on DNA breakage induced by camptothecin, a DNA topoisomerase I poison. A-62176 and A-74932 thus inhibit DNA topoisomerase II reactions at a step prior to the formation of the "cleavable complex" intermediate. These findings indicate that stabilization of the DNA topoisomerase II-DNA cleavable complex is not necessary for the antitumor activity of this class of quinolones and that the catalytic inhibition of DNA topoisomerase II may contribute significantly to the anticancer activity of other DNA topoisomerase II inhibitors.
