Isolation and partial characterization of a lentivirus from talapoin monkeys (Myopithecus talapoin).	We have identified a novel lentivirus prevalent in talapoin monkeys (Myopithecus talapoin), extending previous observations of human immunodeficiency virus-1 cross-reactive antibodies in the serum of these monkeys. We obtained a virus isolate from one of three seropositive monkeys initially available to us. The virus was tentatively named simian immunodeficiency virus from talapoin monkeys (SIVtal). Despite the difficulty of isolating this virus, it was readily passed between monkeys in captivity through unknown routes of transmission. The virus could be propagated for short terms in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of talapoin monkeys but not in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells or human T cell lines. The propagated virus was used to infect a naive talapoin monkey, four rhesus macaques (M. mulatta), and two cynomolgus macaques (M. fascicularis). All animals seroconverted and virus could be reisolated during a short period after experimental infection. A survey of SIVtal-infected captive talapoin monkeys revealed a relative decrease in CD4(+) cell numbers in chronically (>2 years) infected animals. No other signs of immunodeficiency were observed in any of the infected animals. PCR amplification followed by DNA sequencing of two fragments of the polymerase gene revealed that SIVtal is different from the presently known lentiviruses and perhaps most related to the SIV from Sykes monkeys.
Viral load and neuropathology in the SIV model.	To investigate neuropathological processes involved in HIV infection, a longitudinal analysis of central nervous system (CNS) changes was performed using the SIV-infected macaque model. Five animals were studied during the early phase and 13 during the asymptomatic and symptomatic phases. Histopathological analyses were performed on one cerebral fixed hemisphere whereas on the other frozen hemisphere in situ hybridisation, immunohistochemistry and RT-PCR were performed. Viral load was quantified by in situ hybridisation, CD4 and CD8 T cell infiltration by immunohistochemistry and mRNA cytokine expression (IL1beta, IL2, IL6, TNFalpha, IFNgamma and TGF-beta1) by semiquantitative RT-PCR. As reported for HIV-infected humans, the neuropathological analysis of SIV infected animals revealed four distinct lesion profiles: minimal changes, early encephalitis, leukoencephalopathy and encephalitis. No relationship was found between neuropathological findings, numbers of SIV replicating cells and T cell infiltration. CNS infection was found to be an early event characterised by glial activation, an increase in the level of IL1beta, TNFalpha and IL6 mRNA expression. During the asymptomatic and symptomatic phases, IL6 and IL1beta mRNAs increase coincided with gliosis and the development of myelin lesions. The absence of relationship between neuropathological findings and viral load suggests that cerebral lesions are caused by an indirect mechanism. Inflammatory cytokine pattern associated with severe lesions show the key role of glial activation in the SIV neuropathological process.
Analysis of SIV-specific CTL in the rhesus macaque model of AIDS: the use of simian fibroblasts as an alternative source of target cells for chromium release assays.	The simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) model of AIDS is widely used for the development of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) vaccine strategies, particularly for the analysis of correlates of protective immunity. As it is not always possible to establish autologous B-lymphoblastoid cell lines (B-LCL) for use as targets in the analysis of cytotoxic T cell (CTL) activity, we have compared B-LCL with primary simian skin cells. Using a well-defined SIV gag-encoded CTL epitope restricted by Mamu A*01 major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I, we have shown that peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from vaccinated and infected macaques can kill MHC class I-matched skin fibroblasts presenting the cognate epitope but that skin fibroblasts are a less sensitive target than B-LCL for the detection of CTL.
Protection of rhesus macaques against disease progression from pathogenic SHIV-89.6PD by vaccination with phage-displayed HIV-1 epitopes.	The antigenic polymorphism of HIV-1 is a major obstacle in developing an effective vaccine. Accordingly, we screened random peptide libraries (RPLs) displayed on phage with antibodies from HIV-infected individuals and identified an array of HIV-specific epitopes that behave as antigenic mimics of conformational epitopes of gp120 and gp41 proteins. We report that the selected epitopes are shared by a collection of HIV-1 isolates of clades A-F. The phage-borne epitopes are immunogenic in rhesus macaques, where they elicit envelope-specific antibody responses. Upon intravenous challenge with 60 MID50 of pathogenic SHIV-89.6PD, all monkeys became infected; however, in contrast to the naive and mock-immunized monkeys, four of five mimotope-immunized monkeys experienced lower levels of peak viremia, followed by viral set points of undetectable or transient levels of viremia and a mild decline of CD4+ T cells, and were protected from progression to AIDS-like illness. These results provide a new approach to the design of broadly protective HIV-1 vaccines.
Macaque models for early immunosuppression and T cell loss during acute immunodeficiency virus infections.	The interval of acute infection with immunodeficiency viruses is critically important for determining the long-term rate of disease progression. The steps of initial infection, systemic dissemination, and explosive replication of pathogenic SIV or SHIV in macaques are being mapped to show the mechanisms responsible for remodeling host immunity, for establishing the persistent infection, and for promoting disease progression. Here, we describe recent studies on two ways in which CD4+ T cell populations are depleted during acute infection. Initially, we discuss recent work on the mechanisms for CD4+ T cell-mediated, MHC-unrestricted cytolysis. This mechanism shows how even soluble viral antigens such as the envelope glycoprotein, can prime CD4+ lymphocytes to be both effector and target cells in an unrestricted cytolysis mechanism. The consequence of unrestricted cytolysis is a more rapid destruction of the CD4+ T cell population. Secondly, we discuss the broader issue of T cell hyperactivation during acute infection. Inappropriate activation of this lymphocyte population renders cells susceptible to activation induced cell death and also increases the rate of virus replication. Macaque immunization studies have shown a clear role for extracellular Tat in hyperactivation. These two mechanisms, unrestricted cytolysis and T cell hyperactivation, are components of the acute infection that remodel host immunity and dictate the rate of progression to AIDS.
Simian immunodeficiency virus infection of CD4+CD8+ T cells in a macaque with an unusually high peripheral CD4+CD8+ T lymphocyte count.	We assessed the possible role in vivo CD4(+) CD8(+) T cells as a viral reservoir for simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV), in a macaque with 50% CD4(+) CD8(+) T cells in peripheral blood. During primary infection (day 14) of this rhesus macaque with the pathogenic SIVmac251 strain, proviruses were detected at similar frequencies in CD4(+) CD8(+) T cells (1/10) and CD4(+) T cells (1/10) and at a lower frequency in CD8(+) T cells (1/800). On day 235, no viral DNA was detected in CD8(+) cells, despite the persistent high viral load, indicating that CD8(+) cells do not constitute a reservoir during the chronic phase of SIV infection. Infection induced early lymphopenia of CD4(+), CD4(+) CD8(+), and CD8(+) cells; only the CD8(+) cell population returned to initial levels and expanded further. We found that CD4(+) CD8(+) T cells expressed the costimulatory CD28 molecule less and were more prone to die in vitro after phytohemagglutinin/interleukin 2 stimulation than were CD4(+) T cells. Taken together, massive death of CD4(+) CD8(+) T cells during acute stages of SIV infection may explain why CD8(+) T cells did not represent a major reservoir for SIV at the onset of infection.
Specificity and effect on apoptosis of Tat antibodies from vaccinated and SHIV-infected rhesus macaques and HIV-infected individuals.	Recent contributions have demonstrated that actively secreted Tat protein plays an important functional role in human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) infection and that Tat antibodies might interfere with disease progression by blocking the protein extracellularly. In this context we have studied the recognition of several Tat mutants as well as various synthetic Tat fragments by anti-Tat monoclonal antibodies and by IgG antibodies from a large collection of slow and fast-progressor infected individuals. We have also tested the sera from simian/human immunodeficiency virus (SHIV)-infected macaques with these Tat peptides. Important differences were found between long-term non-progressors and fast-progressors, and between human and monkey sera in terms of antibody specificity. Rabbits and macaques were immunised with several Tat peptides and we found that certain antibody subsets from immunised animals recognised the cognate protein Tat and had the capacity to inhibit Tat-induced apoptosis of T cells. Such antibodies might be important for controlling Tat-induced death in cells uninfected by HIV-1.
Infection of macaques with simian immunodeficiency virus induces a species-specific antibody response to major histocompatibility complex class I and class II molecules.	Envelopes of retroviruses, including human immunodeficiency virus and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV), contain host cell proteins that potentially represent novel targets for vaccine development. We show here that sera from rhesus macaques recognized simian major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules in response to infection with SIV. Antibodies from these animals did not cross-react with human MHC antigens on mitogen-activated peripheral blood mononuclear cells. The development of antibodies to MHC class I alpha-chain did not correlate with anti-SIV envelope antibody responses, suggesting that these antibodies did not arise through molecular mimicry. In contrast to the species-specific response in infected animals, sera from animals vaccinated with inactivated human cell-grown SIV reacted to both human and rhesus MHC class I and class II molecules.
Specific nature of cellular immune responses elicited by chimpanzees against HIV-1.	Recent epidemiologic and phylogenetic analyses suggest that in the human population human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) is a relatively new pathogen that arose by zoonotic transmission from chimpanzees. In humans the morbidity and mortality figures due to HIV infection are extremely high. In a very small percentage of the human population, however, individuals have been identified who were infected for more than 20 years and have no evidence of disease progression. In contrast to most infected humans, almost all chimpanzees appear to be resistant to the pathologic effects caused by lentiviruses such as HIV-1. Here we review the characteristics of the HIV-1-specific cell-mediated immune responses mounted by chimpanzees, and we postulate the mechanisms that have evolved that facilitate their resistance to acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.
Heterogeneity of the simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) specific CD8(+) T-cell response in mucosal tissues during SIV primary infection.	Virus-specific CD8(+) T cells play an important role in controlling viral replication during acute primary infection. At this early stage, mucosal tissues represent a major site of viral replication. Therefore, the presence of functional virus-specific CD8(+) effector T cells in the mucosa during primary infection is a key issue in the pathogenesis of infection. In order to evaluate the extent of this response, six rhesus macaques were infected with simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)mac251 and sacrificed on day 28 following infection. The functional activity of SIV-effector CD8(+) T cells was evaluated by means of a gamma-IFN ELISpot assay with autologous cells expressing SIV env, gag, pol and nef genes as antigen-presenting cells. This evaluation was performed on PBMCs, spleen, peripheral lymph node, gut-associated lymph node and lamina propria lymphocytes isolated from different mucosal sites. In parallel, the cell-associated viral load was quantified in all these tissues. Five macaques had gamma-IFN SIV-specific CD8(+) T cells in PBMCs and/or lymph nodes. However, in these macaques, these CD8(+) T cells were only present in seven mucosal sites out of 24 tested (the lamina propria lymphocytes of the duodenum, jejunum, ileum and colon were evaluated separately for each animal), whereas they were detected in all corresponding gut-associated lymph nodes. In addition, the mean frequency of SIV-specific gamma-IFN-secreting CD8(+) T cells was 117 +/- 228 per 10(6) cells in the lamina propria vs. 958 +/- 1184 in gut associated lymph nodes (P = 0.001). No overall correlation was observed between the CD8(+) T-cell activity and the viral load: among the 17 mucosal sites in which the virus was isolated, no specific activity was detected in 13 sites. In conclusion, these data indicate that the frequencies of SIV-specific gamma-IFN-secreting CD8(+) T cells are low in the mucosa during early primary infection. This may be of importance with regard to the intense viral replication observed in the mucosa at this stage.
Antibody protection: passive immunization of neonates against oral AIDS virus challenge.	We have established models for intrapartum and milk-borne HIV transmission by orally challenging neonatal macaques with chimeric simian-human immunodeficiency viruses (SHIVs). This allowed us to test safety and efficacy of passive immunization with human neutralizing monoclonal antibodies (nmAbs), which had been isolated from HIV clade B-infected individuals and which target conserved, functionally important epitopes. The nmAbs studied were F105 or IgG1b12, b12 for short (directed against the CD4 binding site), 2G12 (anti-gp120), 2F5 and 4E10 (both anti-gp41). Out of 16 newborn macaques challenged orally with different SHIV strains, 11 were completely protected by triple or quadruple nmAb combinations, even by post-exposure prophylaxis. In vitro, the combination of b12, 2G12, 2F5 and 4E10 potently neutralized primary HIV isolates of clades A, B, C, and D. Our data suggest that passive immunization with currently available anti-HIV clade B nmAbs could play a role in preventing transmission of non-clade B isolates through breastfeeding. We furthermore conclude that the epitopes recognized by the nmAbs in our successful passive immunization studies are important determinants for protection and provide targets for developing neutralizing antibody-response-based, active AIDS vaccines.
Distinct clonal repertoire of brain CD8+ cells in simian immunodeficiency virus infection.	Infection with simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV), like HIV, can lead to central nervous system (CNS) abnormalities. One of the alterations observed in the brain is the accumulation of highly activated CD8 lymphocytes that, while fighting the infection, may cause tissue damage. In order to determine whether these CD8 cells in the brain comprise a distinct clonal population the expression of T-cell receptor (TCR) genes of two SIV-infected monkeys with CNS abnormalities were analyzed, comparing brain to periphery.
Chemokine induction by HIV-1: recruitment to the cause.	Immunomodulation frequently occurs during viral infections; the mechanisms of which are continually being defined at the cellular and tissue levels. Recently, a study of the effects of HIV-1 on dendritic cells (DCs) identified inflammatory chemokines as highly upregulated during HIV-1 infection and during viral Tat expression in monocyte-derived DCs. It is becoming increasingly clear that HIV-1 has evolved multiple strategies to ensure the maintenance of a local pool of susceptible cells for additional rounds of virus replication.
Clinical features and predictive markers of disease progression in cynomolgus monkeys experimentally infected with simian immunodeficiency virus.	To study the pathogenicity of simian immunodeficiency virus (SIVsm) in cynomolgus monkeys in order to establish an animal model for human AIDS.
Macaque CD4+ T-cell subsets: influence of activation on infection by simian immunodeficiency viruses (SIV).	Simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infects a small number of CD4+ T cells including "memory" T cells. The following describes the cell surface markers which may delineate subsets of CD4+ memory T cells and reviews how memory CD4+ T cells are activated and regulated through the T-cell receptor and such accessory receptors as CD28. The factors which may influence initial expression and infection of T cells by CD4 are discussed. Unlike activated and infected T cells, unstimulated CD4+ T cells have little or no SIV DNA detectable in the genomic fraction, but key activation signals may promote integration of viral DNA in memory T cells. Bacterial superantigens (SuperAg) can promote increased levels of SIV viral DNA in mature and immature T cells. Immunodeficiency virus products such as gp120, Nef, and Tat can affect CD4+ T-cell function. Whereas Nef can reduce expression of CD4, Tat reduces the expression of CD28. We hypothesize that the lack of expression of key accessory molecules on CD4 lineage T cells infected with immunodeficiency viruses may make infected T cells more susceptible to recall-antigen-induced programmed cell death.
Cytotoxic T lymphocyte response against multiple simian immunodeficiency virusA (SIV) proteins in SIV-infected macaques.	To identify the target proteins of CD8+ T lymphocytes we have explored the cytolytic immune responses of 12 rhesus macaques experimentally infected with the simian immunodeficiency virus (SIVmac). Target cells were autologous B cell lines presenting SIVmac proteins after infection with recombinant vaccinia viruses. The eight following proteins were studied: ENV, POL, GAG, NEF, VIF, REV, TAT, and VPX. Macaque PBMC stimulated with Con A and expanded in T cell growth factor-containing medium produced cell lines with cytolytic activity in the majority of infected animals (9/12). The structural proteins ENV, POL, and GAG were recognized by cell lines derived from nine, eight, and six macaques, respectively. The small regulatory proteins also represented efficient CTL targets, a specific activity being detected against NEF (8/12), REV (7/12), VPX (7/12), TAT (6/12), and VIF (5/12). Most cytotoxic responses (except those directed against ENV) were mediated by CD8 cells and were MHC class I restricted. Limiting dilution analysis allowed us to quantify the frequency of CTL precursors and confirmed the high immunogenicity of multiple SIV proteins. Three different patterns of response could be defined: six animals were able to recognize at least six of the eight tested target proteins, two of them reacting with all eight target proteins. The other three responder macaques reacted only against a few SIV proteins, whereas no cytotoxic activity was detected in the three remaining infected macaques and in the nine negative controls. The six animals responding against multiple proteins were still healthy 12 to 22 mo after infection with two of them presenting a decrease in circulating CD4 cells concurrently to the disappearance of the CTL response. Conversely, three nonresponder or low responder macaques developed an overt disease after 4 to 12 mo, and two other presented a very low level of CD4 cells, suggesting that the pattern of response may be of prognostic value.
Tumour necrosis factor and interleukin 6 production during interaction between activated CD4+ lymphocytes and simian immunodeficiency virus-infected macrophages.	The mechanism for the gradual loss of CD4+ T lymphocytes and the development of the slowly progressive inflammatory/degenerative lesions that accompany human immunodeficiency virus infection are poorly understood. Using the Simian immunodeficiency virus (SIVmac) macaque model of AIDS, we found that persistently infected primary macrophages fuse with primary activated CD4+ lymphocytes and that this interaction results in production of tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF alpha) and interleukin 6 (IL-6). An earlier report had shown that SIV-infected macaque macrophages fuse with CEM174 cells (a human CD4+ cell line) and cause their lysis. In the present report, we have shown that TNF-alpha and IL-6 are also produced during the early stages of this interaction. Data from cocultivation of infected macrophages with several CD4+ T cell lines, including CEM174, suggested that the cytokines are produced by the T cells, and that cytokine production is restricted to those cells which not only express CD4, but are also capable of fusing with the infected macrophages. These data suggest that infected macrophages in vivo could fuse with and eliminate activated CD4+ lymphocytes and, during this interaction, release cytokines, which would contribute to the degenerative and inflammatory lesions characteristic of this disease.
Cross-neutralization of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 and 2 and simian immunodeficiency virus isolates.	In contrast to infrequent and low-titer cross-neutralization of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) isolates by HIV-2- and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)-positive sera, extensive cross-neutralization of HIV-2NIH-Z, SIVMAC251, and SIVAGM208K occurs with high titer, suggesting conservation of epitopes and mechanism(s) of neutralization. The V3 regions of HIV-2 and SIV isolates, minimally related to the HIV-1 homolog, share significant sequence homology and are immunogenic in monkeys as well as in humans. Whereas the crown of the V3 loop is cross-reactive among HIV-1 isolates and elicits neutralizing antibodies of broad specificity, the SIV and especially HIV-2 crown peptides were not well recognized by cross-neutralizing antisera. V3 loop peptides of HIV-2 isolates did not elicit neutralizing antibodies in mice, guinea pigs, or a goat and together with SIV V3 peptides did not inhibit serum neutralization of HIV-2 and SIV. Thus, the V3 loops of HIV-2 and SIV do not appear to constitute simple linear neutralizing epitopes. In view of the immunogenicity of V3 peptides, the failure of conserved crown peptides to react with natural sera implies a significant role of loop conformation in antibody recognition. Our studies suggest that in addition to their grouping by envelope genetic relatedness, HIV-2 and SIV are neutralized similarly to each other but differently from HIV-1. The use of linear peptides of HIV-2 and SIV as immunogens may require greater attention to microconformation, and alternate subunit approaches may be needed in exploiting these viruses as vaccine models. Such approaches may also be applicable to the HIV-1 system in which conformational epitopes, in addition to the V3 loop, participate in virus neutralization.
Highly effective control of an AIDS virus challenge in macaques by using vesicular stomatitis virus and modified vaccinia virus Ankara vaccine vectors in a single-boost protocol.	Previous studies have shown that vaccination and boosting of rhesus macaques with attenuated vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) vectors encoding Env and Gag proteins of simian immunodeficiency virus-human immunodeficiency virus (SHIV) hybrid viruses protect rhesus macaques from AIDS after challenge with the highly pathogenic SHIV 89.6P (23). In the present study, we compared the effectiveness of a single prime-boost protocol consisting of VSV vectors expressing SHIV Env, Gag, and Pol proteins to that of a protocol consisting of a VSV vector prime followed with a single boost with modified vaccinia virus Ankara (MVA) expressing the same SHIV proteins. After challenge with SHIV 89.6P, MVA-boosted animals controlled peak challenge viral loads to less than 2 x 10(6) copies/ml (a level significantly lower than that seen with VSV-boosted animals and lower than those reported for other vaccine studies employing the same challenge). MVA-boosted animals have shown excellent preservation of CD4(+) T cells, while two of four VSV-boosted animals have shown significant loss of CD4(+) T cells. The improved protection in MVA-boosted animals correlates with trends toward stronger prechallenge CD8(+)-T-cell responses to SHIV antigens and stronger postchallenge SHIV-neutralizing antibody production.
Dichotomy between CD1a+ and CD83+ dendritic cells in lymph nodes during SIV infection of macaques.	The prevalence and differentiation of dendritic cells (DC) in lymphoid tissue of simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)-infected cynomolgus monkeys was studied during disease progression. Lymph node biopsies were consecutively obtained from clinical rapid and slow progressors until the development of disease consistent with simian acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (sAIDS) occurred. Quantitative evaluation of CD1a+ DC and the expression of DC antigens related to maturation (CD83, DC-LAMP and S100b) were performed at the single cell level by in situ image analysis. Despite a persistent prevalence of CD1a+ DC in lymphoid tissue during disease progression, there was a subsequent drop of mature CD83+, DC-LAMP+ and S100b+ DC, correlating with the decline of CD4+ T cells in blood. Thus, disease progression to sAIDS was associated with impaired maturation of DC, and lack of CD83, DC-LAMP and S100b expression.
Number of CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell CDR3 clonotypes expanding during acute infection of macaques with simian immunodeficiency virus.	The total number of circulating CD4+ and CD8+ T-cells undergoing clonal expansions following SIV(mac251) infection was determined using a T-cell receptor Vbeta chain (TRBV) third complementarity-determining region (CDR3) DNA heteroduplex tracking assay (HTA). This assay measures the number of newly expanding T-cell clones but not their antigenic specificity. Fewer expanding CD4+ (3-23 per animal) than CD8+ (18-37 per animal) clonotypes were observed during the acute phase of SIV infection. CD8+ T-cell expansions peaked at 4 weeks postinfection (wpi) concomitant with early reductions in viremia. Expanding clone TRBV transcripts ranged in frequency from the limit of detection of 2% to 40% of their TRBV subfamily's transcripts. The number of expanding CD4+ or CD8+ clones correlated with neither peak, subsequent slope, nor steady-state viremia. CDR3 repertoires in CD8-expressing cells in different anatomical compartments were also analyzed. Repertoires were polyclonal in the thymus, oligoclonal in mesenteric lymph nodes, peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), and spleen, and extremely oligoclonal in intra-epithelial lymphocytes (IEL) and lamina propria lymphocytes (LPL). The lack of correlation between the number of expanding T-cell clonotypes and viremia levels may reflect the highly variable selection pressure imposed on SIV by T-cell responses targeting different epitopes in outbred macaques.
HIV/SIV escape from immune surveillance: focus on Nef.	During a progressive HIV-1 infection, the gradual decrease in functional CD4+ T(helper) cells leads to immunodeficiency and eventually death in the untreated patient. The virulence role of the lentiviral accessory gene nef was first reported from deletion studies in the macaque model, and research during the past decade has revealed a pluripotent protein capable of multiple points of interference with cellular mechanisms. Importantly, Nef has the capacity to modify the plasma membrane signalling by regulation of receptor/ligand endocytosis as well as to modulate cellular regulation such as apoptosis and lymphocyte activation. This effective defence against an apparent vigorous and specific immune response is crucial for the ability of HIV-1 to persist in the host. Here we review the multitude of functions exerted by Nef and discuss the functional domains of the protein in terms of cellular interaction partners and the effect of nef mutations in the course of AIDS disease progression.
Roles of target cells and virus-specific cellular immunity in primary simian immunodeficiency virus infection.	There is an ongoing debate on whether acute human immunodeficiency virus infection is controlled by target cell limitation or by virus-specific cellular immunity. To resolve this question, we developed a novel mathematical modeling scheme which allows us to incorporate measurements of virus load, target cells, and virus-specific immunity and applied it to a comprehensive data set generated in an experiment involving rhesus macaques infected with simian immunodeficiency virus. Half of the macaques studied were treated during the primary infection period with reagents which block T-cell costimulation and as a result displayed severely impaired virus-specific immune responses. Our results show that early viral replication in normal infection is controlled to a large extent by virus-specific CD8(+) T cells and not by target cell limitation.
Necrotizing meningoencephalitis and pneumonitis in a simian immunodeficiency virus-infected rhesus macaque due to Acanthamoeba.	Free-living amoebae of the genus Acanthamoeba can cause a fatal disease of the brain in humans called granulomatous amoebic encephalitis. We present a case of meningoencephalitis and pneumonitis in a simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)-infected rhesus macaque caused by Acanthamoeba sp. The animal became ill 176 days after intravenous inoculation with SIVmac251 after a short history of weight loss and a sudden onset of hind limb paresis and abnormal head movements. Histopathologic examination of hematoxylin and eosin-stained tissues revealed multifocal to coalescing necrotizing neutrophilic meningoencephalitis and pneumonitis. Immunofluorescence and polymerase chain reaction were used to identify the genus of amoeba as Acanthamoeba. Immunohistochemistry of immune cell markers was used to characterize the animal's immune response to the opportunistic amoebic infection with features of both innate and adaptive cell-mediated immunity. Although not previously reported, the potential transmission to humans, either through environmental contamination or contact with an infected animal, makes this disease a threat to laboratory animal care staff and pathologists.
Subsets of T cells in healthy rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta) infected with simian T-lymphotropic virus type 1.	Simian T-lymphotropic virus type 1 (STLV-1) is a C-type retrovirus of nonhuman primates that is genetically and antigenically related to human T-lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1). Infection with STLV-1 has been reported in many species of Old World monkeys and apes, including rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta). Similar to HTLV infection in humans, STLV infection has been associated with T-cell lymphoproliferative disease or lymphoma in a small proportion of infected animals, predominantly African species. There are conflicting reports of T-cell subset alterations in healthy HTLV-1 carriers. To the authors' knowledge, analysis of T-cell subsets in healthy STLV-1 carrier rhesus macaques has not been reported. Subsets of T cells in peripheral blood from healthy, STLV-1-seropositive rhesus macaques (n = 17) and seronegative controls matched for age and sex (n = 17) were determined by use of fluorescence-activated cell sorter analysis. Parameters measured included CD3, CD4, CD8, CD25, CD28, CD38, and HLA-DR cell sets. Significant differences in T-cell subsets or hematologic parameters were not observed between healthy STLV-seropositive and seronegative groups.
A dominant role for CD8+-T-lymphocyte selection in simian immunodeficiency virus sequence variation.	CD8(+) T lymphocytes (CD8-TL) select viral escape variants in both human immunodeficiency virus and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infections. The frequency of CD8-TL viral escape as well as the contribution of escape to overall virus diversification has not been assessed. We quantified CD8-TL selection in SIV infections by sequencing viral genomes from 35 SIVmac239-infected animals at the time of euthanasia. Here we show that positive selection for sequences encoding 46 known CD8-TL epitopes is comparable to the positive selection observed for the variable loops of env. We also found that >60% of viral variation outside of the viral envelope occurs within recognized CD8-TL epitopes. Therefore, we conclude that CD8-TL selection is the dominant cause of SIV diversification outside of the envelope.
A period of transient viremia and occult infection precedes persistent viremia and antiviral immune responses during multiple low-dose intravaginal simian immunodeficiency virus inoculations.	In rhesus macaques, classic systemic infection, characterized by persistent viremia and seroconversion, occurred after multiple low-dose (10(3) 50% tissue culture infective doses) intravaginal (IVAG) inoculations with simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) strain SIVmac251. Monkeys developed classic SIV infections after a variable number of low-dose IVAG exposures to SIVmac251. Once established, the systemic infection was identical to SIV infection following high-dose IVAG SIV inoculation. However, occult systemic infection characterized by transient cell-associated or cell-free viremia consistently occurred early in the series of multiple vaginal SIV exposures. Further, antiviral cellular immune responses were present prior to the establishment of a classic systemic infection in the low-dose vaginal SIV transmission model.
Assessment of the relative therapeutic effects of vaccines on virus load and immune responses in small groups at several time points: efficacy of mucosal and subcutaneous polypeptide vaccines in rhesus macaques exposed to SHIV.	Due to the high cost, subject availability and ethical constraints, it is often critically important in pre-clinical and clinical studies to carry out an adequate statistical analysis of longitudinal multivariate data over several time points in trials in several small groups.
Immunogenicity of attenuated vesicular stomatitis virus vectors expressing HIV type 1 Env and SIV Gag proteins: comparison of intranasal and intramuscular vaccination routes.	An experimental AIDS vaccine based on attenuated, recombinant vesicular stomatitis virus (rVSV), when administered by a combination of parenteral and mucosal routes, has proven effective at preventing AIDS in a rhesus macaque model (Rose NF, et al.: Cell 2001;106:539-549). In an effort to determine the optimal route of vaccine administration we evaluated the ability of rVSV-based vaccine vectors expressing HIV-1 Env and SIV Gag proteins, when given either intramuscularly (i.m.) or intranasally (i.n.), to elicit antigen-specific cellular and humoral immune responses, and to protect from a subsequent vaginal challenge with simian-human immunodeficiency virus (SHIV89.6P). Our results demonstrate that macaques vaccinated by the i.n. route developed significantly higher antigen-specific cellular immune responses as determined by MHC class I tetramer staining, IFN-gamma ELISPOT, and cytotoxic T cell assays. However, systemic and mucosal humoral immune responses did not vary significantly with the route of vaccine administration. Given the importance of cell-mediated immune responses in slowing AIDS progression, intranasal delivery of a VSV-based AIDS vaccine may be an optimal as well as practical route for vaccination and should be considered in design of clinical trials.
T cell receptor recognition motifs govern immune escape patterns in acute SIV infection.	Escape from adaptive T cell immunity through transmutation of viral antigenic structure is a cardinal feature in the pathogenesis of SIV/HIV infection and a major obstacle to antiretroviral vaccine development. However, the molecular determinants of this phenomenon at the T cell receptor (TCR)-antigen interface are unknown. Here, we show that mutational escape is intimately linked to the structural configuration of constituent TCR clonotypes within virus-specific CD8(+) T cell populations. Analysis of 3416 SIV-specific TCR sequences revealed that polyclonal T cell populations characterized by highly conserved TCRB CDR3 motifs were rendered ineffectual by single residue mutations in the cognate viral epitope. Conversely, diverse clonotypic repertoires without discernible motifs were not associated with viral escape. Thus, fundamental differences in the mode of antigen engagement direct the pattern of adaptive viral evolution. These findings have profound implications for the development of vaccines that elicit T cell immunity to combat pathogens with unstable genomes.
Protective effects of nef-deleted SHIV or that having IFN-gamma against disease induced with a pathogenic virus early after vaccination.	To clarify the involvement of primitive non-specific immune responses in the protective effects of a live, attenuated virus, each two rhesus macaques were intravenously immunized with an attenuated chimeric simian and human immunodeficiency virus (SHIV) in which the nef gene was deleted (SHIV-NI) or a SHIV having human IFN-gamma inserted into the deleted nef region (SHIV IFN-gamma). These immunized monkeys were intravenously challenged with a heterologous pathogenic SHIV (SHIV-C2/1) at four weeks post immunization (wpi). After vaccination, one of each SHIV-NI- or SHIV IFN-gamma-immunized monkeys showed a low level of SIV Gag-specific lymphocyte proliferative response but did not have neutralizing antibodies to both the parental and challenge viruses. After the challenge, the plasma viral RNA loads of the challenge virus were suppressed in all the immunized monkeys and the severe CD4+ T cell loss observed in the unimmunized monkeys was not found. Thus, both SHIV IFN-gamma and SHIV-NI infections could prevent from disease progression by a pathogenic virus early after immunization, suggesting that primitive non-specific immune response elicited by attenuated virus infection, in addition to highly acquired virus-specific immunity, contributes to the protective effect against a pathogenic virus.
Smallpox vaccine does not protect macaques with AIDS from a lethal monkeypox virus challenge.	It is unknown whether smallpox vaccination would protect human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1)-infected individuals, because helper CD4(+) cells, the targets of HIV-1 infection, are necessary for the induction of both adaptive CD8(+) cell and B cell responses. We have addressed this question in macaques and have demonstrated that, although smallpox vaccination is safe in immunodeficient macaques when it is preceded by immunization with highly attenuated vaccinia strains, the macaques were not protected against lethal monkeypox virus challenge if their CD4(+) cell count was <300 cells/mm(3). The lack of protection appeared to be associated with a defect in vaccinia-specific immunoglobulin (Ig) switching from IgM to IgG. Thus, vaccination strategies that bypass CD4(+) cell help are needed to elicit IgG antibodies with high affinity and adequate tissue distribution and to restore protection against smallpox in severely immunocompromised individuals.
Hydroxyurea exerts a cytostatic but not immunosuppressive effect on T lymphocytes.	To demonstrate that, despite a dose-dependent cytostatic effect, hydroxyurea (HU) does not have immunosuppressive effects.
Dynamic immune responses maintain cytotoxic T lymphocyte epitope mutations in transmitted simian immunodeficiency virus variants.	Viral escape from cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) can undermine immune control of human immunodeficiency virus 1. It is therefore important to assess the stability of viral mutations in CTL epitopes after transmission to naive hosts. Here we demonstrate the persistence of mutations in a dominant CTL epitope after transmission of simian immunodeficiency virus variants to major histocompatibility complex-matched rhesus monkeys. Transient reversions to wild-type sequences occurred and elicited CTLs specific for the wild-type epitope, resulting in immunological pressure that rapidly reselected the mutant viruses. These data suggest that mutations in dominant human immunodeficiency virus 1 CTL epitopes may accumulate in human populations with limited major histocompatibility complex heterogeneity by a mechanism involving dynamic CTL control of transiently reverted wild-type virus.
Kinetics of expansion of SIV Gag-specific CD8+ T lymphocytes following challenge of vaccinated macaques.	The ability of memory T cells to mount a recall response plays a key role in the ability of vaccinated animals to contain viral challenge. In this study, we intensively monitored the expansion of SIV Gag-specific CD8+ T cells in peripheral blood and tissues of rhesus macaques vaccinated with the attenuated strain SIVmac239Delta3 and challenged with the pathogenic viruses SIVmac239 or SIVsmE660. Although all vaccinated animals were infected with challenge virus, peak levels of plasma viremia in vaccinees were decreased by 1.5 to 2 logs as compared with naive controls. Decreased levels of plasma viremia in vaccinated animals were evident as early as 7 days post-challenge, well before the expansion of SIV-specific CD8+ T cells. Expansion of SIV-specific CD8+ T cells was not observed in peripheral blood or tissues until at least 14 days after infection and did not occur in most animals until after the initial peak of viral replication. The observation that expansion of SIV-specific CD8+ T cells is delayed until 7 days or more after initial detection of viremia highlights fundamental limitations in the ability of lentivirus-specific CD8+ T cells to mediate protection against challenge.
Signature for long-term vaccine-mediated control of a Simian and human immunodeficiency virus 89.6P challenge: stable low-breadth and low-frequency T-cell response capable of coproducing gamma interferon and interleukin-2.	In 2001, we reported 20 weeks of control of challenge with the virulent 89.6P chimera of simian and human immunodeficiency viruses (SHIV-89.6P) by a Gag-Pol-Env vaccine consisting of DNA priming and modified vaccinia virus Ankara boosting. Here we report that 22 out of 23 of these animals successfully controlled their viremia until their time of euthanasia at 200 weeks postchallenge. At euthanasia, all animals had low to undetectable viral loads and normal CD4 counts. During the long period of viral control, gamma interferon (IFN-gamma)-producing antiviral T cells were present at unexpectedly low breadths and frequencies. Most animals recognized two CD8 and one CD4 epitope and had frequencies of IFN-gamma-responding T cells from 0.01 to 0.3% of total CD8 or CD4 T cells. T-cell responses were remarkably stable over time and, unlike responses in most immunodeficiency virus infections, maintained good functional characteristics, as evidenced by coproduction of IFN-gamma and interleukin-2. Overall, high titers of binding and neutralizing antibody persisted throughout the postchallenge period. Encouragingly, long-term control was effective in macaques of diverse histocompatibility types.
Enhanced cellular immunity in macaques following a novel peptide immunotherapy.	Advances in treating and preventing AIDS depend on understanding how human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is eliminated in vivo and on the manipulation of effective immune responses to HIV. During the development of assays quantifying the elimination of fluorescent autologous cells coated with overlapping 15-mer simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) or HIV-1 peptides, we made a remarkable observation: the reinfusion of macaque peripheral blood mononuclear cells, or even whole blood, pulsed with SIV and/or HIV peptides generated sharply enhanced SIV- and HIV-1-specific T-cell immunity. Strong, broad CD4+- and CD8+-T-cell responses could be enhanced simultaneously against peptide pools spanning 87% of all SIV- and HIV-1-expressed proteins-highly desirable characteristics of HIV-specific immunity. De novo hepatitis C virus-specific CD4+- and CD8+-T-cell responses were generated in macaques by the same method. This simple technique holds promise for the immunotherapy of HIV and other chronic viral infections.
CD8+ T cell dynamics during primary simian immunodeficiency virus infection in macaques: relationship of effector cell differentiation with the extent of viral replication.	Immunological and virological events that occur during the earliest stages of HIV-1 infection are now considered to have a major impact on subsequent disease progression. We observed changes in the frequencies of CD8(bright) T cells expressing different chemokine receptors in the peripheral blood and lymph nodes of rhesus macaques during the acute phase of the pathogenic SIVmac251 infection; the frequency of CD8(bright) T cells expressing CXCR4 decreased, while the frequency of those expressing CCR5 increased. These reciprocal changes in chemokine receptor expression were associated with changes in the proportion of cycling (Ki67(+)) CD8(bright) T cells, and with the pattern of CD8(bright) T cell differentiation as defined by expression of CCR7 and CD45RA. In contrast, during the primary phase of the attenuated SIVmac251Deltanef infection, no major change was observed. Whereas during the acute phase of the infection with pathogenic SIV (2 wk postinfection) no correlate of disease protection was identified, once the viral load set points were established (2 mo postinfection), we found that the levels of cycling and of CCR5- and CXCR4-positive CD8(bright) T cells were correlated with the extent of viral replication and therefore with SIV-infection outcome. Our data reveal that, during primary SIV infection, despite intense CD8 T cell activation and an increase in CCR5 expression, which are considered as essential for optimal effector function of CD8(+) T cells, these changes are associated with a poor prognosis for disease progression to AIDS.
Immunization of macaques with single-cycle simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) stimulates diverse virus-specific immune responses and reduces viral loads after challenge with SIVmac239.	Genetically engineered simian immunodeficiency viruses (SIV) that is limited to a single cycle of infection was evaluated as a nonreplicating AIDS vaccine approach for rhesus macaques. Four Mamu-A*01(+) macaques were inoculated intravenously with three concentrated doses of single-cycle SIV (scSIV). Each dose consisted of a mixture of approximately equivalent amounts of scSIV strains expressing the SIV(mac)239 and SIV(mac)316 envelope glycoproteins with mutations in nef that prevent major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I downregulation. Viral loads in plasma peaked between 10(4) and 10(5) RNA copies/ml on day 4 after the first inoculation and then steadily declined to undetectable levels over the next 4 weeks. SIV Gag-specific T-cell responses were detected in peripheral blood by MHC class I tetramer staining (peak, 0.07 to 0.2% CD8(+) T cells at week 2) and gamma interferon (IFN-gamma) enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISPOT) assays (peak, 50 to 250 spot forming cells/10(6) peripheral blood mononuclear cell at week 3). Following the second and third inoculations at weeks 8 and 33, respectively, viral loads in plasma peaked between 10(2) and 10(4) RNA copies/ml on day 2 and were cleared over a 1-week period. T-cell-proliferative responses and antibodies to SIV were also observed after the second inoculation. Six weeks after the third dose, each animal was challenged intravenously with SIV(mac)239. All four animals became infected. However, three of the four scSIV-immunized animals exhibited 1 to 3 log reductions in acute-phase plasma viral loads relative to two Mamu-A*01(+) control animals. Additionally, two of these animals were able to contain their viral loads below 2,000 RNA copies/ml as late as 35 weeks into the chronic phase of infection. Given the extraordinary difficulty in protecting against SIV(mac)239, these results are encouraging and support further evaluation of lentiviruses that are limited to a single cycle of infection as a preclinical AIDS vaccine approach.
Induction of T-cell immunity to antiretroviral drug-resistant human immunodeficiency virus type 1.	Antiretroviral drug-resistant human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) is a major, growing, public health problem. Immune responses targeting epitopes spanning drug resistance sites could ameliorate development of drug resistance. We studied 25 individuals harboring multidrug-resistant HIV-1 for T-cell immunity to HIV-1 proteins and peptides spanning all common drug resistance mutations. CD8 T cells targeting epitopes spanning drug-induced mutations were detected but only in the 3 individuals with robust HIV-specific T-cell activity. Novel CD8 T-cell responses were detected against the common L63P and L10I protease inhibitor fitness mutations. Induction of T-cell immunity to drug-resistant variants was demonstrated in simian human immunodeficiency virus-infected macaques, where both CD8 and CD4 T-cell immune responses to reverse transcriptase and protease antiretroviral mutations were elicited using a novel peptide-based immunotherapy. T-cell responses to antiretroviral resistance mutations were strongest in the most immunocompetent animals. This study suggests feasible strategies to further evaluate the potential of limiting antiretroviral drug resistance through induction of T-cell immunity.
Reversion of immune escape HIV variants upon transmission: insights into effective viral immunity.	Many viruses that cause chronic viremic infections, such as human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), mutate extensively to avoid effective control by the host immune system. However, each immune escape mutation probably results in some fitness cost to the virus. The most effective immune responses might be those that target the regions of the virus where escape mutation inflicts the largest fitness cost to the virus. A virus crippled by immune escape mutations would result in reduced viral load and delayed disease. Such knowledge could be used to rationally design more effective vaccines.
Immunoprophylaxis against AIDS in macaques with a lentiviral DNA vaccine.	We earlier reported that immunization of macaques with a reverse transcriptase-deleted SHIV(KU2) (DeltartSHIV(KU2)) plasmid that contained HIV-1(HXB2) env and SIV gag-nef induced protection against AIDS caused by challenge virus SHIV89.6P with a heterologous env. We further deleted vif and integrase from DeltartSHIV(KU2) and substituted the 3'LTR with SV40 poly A sequences, creating Delta4SHIV(KU2) (M) and a parallel construct containing gag-nef of HIV-1(SF2), Delta4SHIV(KU2) (H). Six macaques received two intramuscular injections of the (M) DNA, and another six received three injections of the (H) DNA. Three of the latter group received two post-challenge boosts with (M) DNA vaccine. Seven virus control macaques were inoculated with SHIV89.6P. All twelve immunized macaques were challenged with SHIV89.6P virus, and CMI responses were measured by ELISPOT assays. Virus control animals all developed progressive infection, whereas vaccinated macaques from both groups controlled virus replication, with plasma viral loads dropping to undetectable levels between weeks 6 and 126 p.i. This DNA vaccine was efficacious even though it encoded Env, Gag, and Nef that were genetically distinct from the proteins in the challenge virus. The DNA vaccine induced broad-based protection without using viral proteins to boost the immunity.
Longitudinal analysis of activation markers on monocyte subsets during the development of simian immunodeficiency virus encephalitis.	Lentiviral encephalitis has been hypothesized to be associated with altered monocyte migration into the brain. CD14(hi)/CD16(lo) and CD14(lo)/CD16(hi) monocytes were expanded during acute infection; however, this expansion was not unique or greater in macaques that developed encephalitis. The proportion of monocytes that expressed CD62L, HLA-DR, CD16, CD64, and CD40 varied during the course of infection in macaques that eventually developed encephalitis. Taken together, these results suggest that changes in the proportion of circulating activated monocytes are not predictive of development of encephalitis, but this does not rule out the importance of activated monocytes in the development of encephalitis.
Optimization of in vitro expansion of macaque CD4 T cells using anti-CD3 and co-stimulation for autotransfusion therapy.	Our laboratory has previously shown that adoptive transfer of in vitro-expanded autologous purified polyclonal CD4(+) T cells using anti-CD3/CD28-coated beads induced antiviral responses capable of controlling SIV replication in vivo.
Systemic vaccination prevents the total destruction of mucosal CD4 T cells during acute SIV challenge.	Acute human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infections are accompanied by a systemic loss of memory CD4 T cells, with mucosal sites serving as a major site for viral replication, dissemination and CD4 T cell depletion. Protecting the mucosal CD4 T cell compartment thus is critical to contain HIV, and preserve the integrity of the mucosal immune system. The primary objective of this study was to determine if systemic vaccination with DNA/rAd-5 encoding SIV-mac239-env, gag and pol could prevent the destruction of CD4 T cells in mucosal tissues.
Dynamic evolution of antibody populations in a rhesus macaque infected with attenuated simian immunodeficiency virus identified by surface plasmon resonance.	Increasing evidence suggests that an effective AIDS vaccine will need to elicit broadly neutralizing antibody responses. However, the mechanisms of antibody-mediated neutralization have not been defined. Previous studies from our lab have identified significant differences in the rates of antibody binding to trimeric SIV envelope proteins that correlate with neutralization sensitivity. Importantly, these results demonstrate differences in monoclonal antibody (MAb) binding to neutralization-sensitive and neutralization-resistant envelope proteins, suggesting that one mechanism for virus neutralization may be related to the stability of antibody binding. To date, little has been done to evaluate the binding properties of polyclonal serum antibodies elicited by SIV infection or vaccination.
Vaccine improves survival in monkey tests.	A vaccine tested at the U.S. NIAID clearly improved the survival of monkeys, a benefit not predicted by T-cell and viral load tests. It was predicted by measurements of memory T cells in the first few months of infection--giving important insights into how HIV disease develops, and how to test HIV vaccines early so that only the best candidates will go into large human trials.
Ability of herpes simplex virus vectors to boost immune responses to DNA vectors and to protect against challenge by simian immunodeficiency virus.	The immunogenicity and protective capacity of replication-defective herpes simplex virus (HSV) vector-based vaccines were examined in rhesus macaques. Three macaques were inoculated with recombinant HSV vectors expressing Gag, Env, and a Tat-Rev-Nef fusion protein of simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV). Three other macaques were primed with recombinant DNA vectors expressing Gag, Env, and a Pol-Tat-Nef-Vif fusion protein prior to boosting with the HSV vectors. Robust anti-Gag and anti-Env cellular responses were detected in all six macaques. Following intravenous challenge with wild-type, cloned SIV239, peak and 12-week plasma viremia levels were significantly lower in vaccinated compared to control macaques. Plasma SIV RNA in vaccinated macaques was inversely correlated with anti-Rev ELISPOT responses on the day of challenge (P value<0.05), anti-Tat ELISPOT responses at 2 weeks post challenge (P value <0.05) and peak neutralizing antibody titers pre-challenge (P value 0.06). These findings support continued study of recombinant herpesviruses as a vaccine approach for AIDS.
Evidence for persistent, occult infection in neonatal macaques following perinatal transmission of simian-human immunodeficiency virus SF162P3.	To model human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) perinatal transmission, we studied infection of simian-human immunodeficiency virus (SHIV) SF162P3 in 10 pregnant Macaca nemestrina females and their offspring. Four of nine infants born to and suckled by these dams had evidence of infection, a transmission rate of 44.4% (95% confidence interval, 13.7% to 78.8%). We quantified transplacentally acquired and de novo Env-specific immunoglobulin G (IgG), IgM, and neutralizing antibodies in newborns. Transmission of escape variants was confirmed. In utero infection (n = 1) resulted in high viremia, depletion of peripheral CD4+ T cells, and rapid evolution of env in blood and tissues. Peripartum or postpartum SHIV infection (n = 3) resulted in postacute viral control that was undetectable by very sensitive multiplex PCR, despite increasing antibodies. Seropositive infants with highly controlled viremia had homogeneous peripheral blood env sequences, and their tissues had <3 copies per million cells. A high incidence of seropositive virus-low or -negative SHIV infection in infant macaques has implications for HIV type 1 perinatal transmission and detection.
Loss of nave cells accompanies memory CD4+ T-cell depletion during long-term progression to AIDS in Simian immunodeficiency virus-infected macaques.	Human immunodeficiency virus and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) induce a slow progressive disease, characterized by the massive loss of memory CD4+ T cells during the acute infection followed by a recovery phase in which virus replication is partially controlled. However, because the initial injury is so severe and virus production persists, the immune system eventually collapses and a symptomatic fatal disease invariably occurs. We have assessed CD4+ T-cell dynamics and disease progression in 12 SIV-infected rhesus monkeys for nearly 2 years. Three macaques exhibiting a rapid progressor phenotype experienced rapid and irreversible loss of memory, but not nave, CD4+ T lymphocytes from peripheral blood and secondary lymphoid tissues and died within the first 6 months of virus inoculation. In contrast, SIV-infected conventional progressor animals sustained marked but incomplete depletions of memory CD4+ T cells and continuous activation/proliferation of this T-lymphocyte subset. This was associated with a profound loss of nave CD4+ T cells from peripheral blood and secondary lymphoid tissues, which declined at rates that correlated with disease progression. These data suggest that the persistent loss of memory CD4(+)T cells, which are being eliminated by direct virus killing and activation-induced cell death, requires the continuous differentiation of nave into memory CD4+ T cells. This unrelenting replenishment process eventually leads to the exhaustion of the nave CD4+T-cell pool and the development of disease.
A single vaccination with attenuated SIVmac 239 via the tonsillar route confers partial protection against challenge with SIVmac 251 at a distant mucosal site, the rectum.	Elucidating the mechanisms that protect monkeys previously immunized with attenuated SIV (SIVDeltanef) against challenge infection with pathogenic virus may reveal new strategies for the development of an effective HIV vaccine. Here we show that a single atraumatic application of SIVDeltanef to the tonsils of four rhesus macaques conferred protection against SIVmac251 applied intrarectally 26 weeks later. While this protection was not complete, i.e., challenge virus could be isolated from all immunized animals, it was reflected by significantly lower viral loads in the blood (weeks 2-16 after challenge, p < 0.01) and considerably lower loads in lymphoid organs, and more stable peripheral CD4 counts in a proportion of the immunized animals as compared to four non-immunized, SIVmac251-infected control monkeys. SIV-specific humoral as well as systemic and mucosal T cell responses were detected in the immunized animals, but there was no correlation between their magnitude of expression and the level of protection. Analyses of leukocyte subsets in these animals at necropsy (24 weeks after challenge) did not reveal a significantly enhanced proportion of gamma/delta T cells in the tissues of protected monkeys. Therefore, tonsillar application of attenuated SIV induces protection in some animals against a superinfection with wild-type SIV distant at a distant mucosal site.
Determination of simian immunodeficiency virus production by infected activated and resting cells.	To determine the relative amount of virus produced by activated and resting CD4+ T cells.
Site-directed serology using synthetic oligopeptides representing the C-terminus of the external glycoproteins of HIV-1, HIV-2, or SIVmac may distinguish subtypes among primate lentiviruses.	In this study the presence of a highly immunogenic domain located at the C-terminus of the external glycoproteins (EGP) of human and simian immunodeficiency viruses (HIV-1, HIV-2, and SIVMAC) is shown using synthetic oligopeptides as antigens in enzyme immunoassays. This epitope is probably located within the last 13 and 15 residues of the EGP of HIV-1 and HIV-2, respectively. The C terminal epitope of the EGP of SIVMAC may involve residues located more upstream. Among the HIV-2/SIV serotype, we observed that the reactivity to the C-terminal epitope of gp120 was dependent of both species and geographical origin of the samples tested. It seems that this gp 120 C-terminal epitope could distinguish subtypes among the HIV-2/SIV serotype. Further studies, using site-directed enzyme immunoassays with synthetic peptides representing the C-terminus of the EGP derived from a wide variety of HIV2/SIV strains must be performed to confirm this observation. These kinds of assays may constitute important tools for use in seroepidemiological studies and broaden our understanding of the distribution and phylogenetic relationship of primate lentiviruses.
Virus-specific T cell responses in macaques acutely infected with SHIV(sf162p3).	CD4(+) T helper and CD8(+) cytotoxic T lymphocyte responses are believed to play an important role in the control of primary HIV and SIV infection. However, the role of these cells in macaques acutely infected with SHIV(sf162p3) has not been well characterized. In this study, ten adult rhesus macaques were intravaginally infected with SHIV(sf162p3), and antigen-specific cytokine responses to SHIV-Tat, Nef, Gag and Env peptide pools were examined through 70 days post inoculation (p.i.) using ELISPOT and/or cytokine flow cytometry (CFC). Peak plasma viral replication occurred between 14 and 21 days p.i. followed by low to undetectable plasma viremia by 70 days of infection in most macaques. Although some animals had strong virus-specific cellular immune responses, many had weak or minimal responses that did not correlate with the post peak decline in plasma viremia.
Simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infection influences the level and function of regulatory T cells in SIV-infected rhesus macaques but not SIV-infected sooty mangabeys.	Differences in clinical outcome of simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infection in disease-resistant African sooty mangabeys (SM) and disease-susceptible Asian rhesus macaques (RM) prompted us to examine the role of regulatory T cells (Tregs) in these two animal models. Results from a cross-sectional study revealed maintenance of the frequency and absolute number of peripheral Tregs in chronically SIV-infected SM while a significant loss occurred in chronically SIV-infected RM compared to uninfected animals. A longitudinal study of experimentally SIV-infected animals revealed a transient increase in the frequency of Tregs from baseline values following acute infection in RM, but no change in the frequency of Tregs occurred in SM during this period. Further examination revealed a strong correlation between plasma viral load (VL) and the level of Tregs in SIV-infected RM but not SM. A correlation was also noted in SIV-infected RM that control VL spontaneously or in response to antiretroviral chemotherapy. In addition, immunofluorescent cell count assays showed that while Treg-depleted peripheral blood mononuclear cells from RM led to a significant enhancement of CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell responses to select pools of SIV peptides, there was no detectable T-cell response to the same pool of SIV peptides in Treg-depleted cells from SIV-infected SM. Our data collectively suggest that while Tregs do appear to play a role in the control of viremia and the magnitude of the SIV-specific immune response in RM, their role in disease resistance in SM remains unclear.
Antiviral antibodies are necessary for control of simian immunodeficiency virus replication.	To better define the role of B cells in the control of pathogenic simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) replication, six rhesus monkeys were depleted of B cells by intravenous infusion of rituximab (anti-CD20) 28 days and 7 days before intravaginal SIVmac239 inoculation and every 21 days thereafter until AIDS developed. Although the blood and tissues were similarly depleted of B cells, anti-SIV immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibody responses were completely blocked in only three of the six animals. In all six animals, levels of viral RNA (vRNA) in plasma peaked at 2 weeks and declined by 4 weeks postinoculation (PI). However, the three animals prevented from making an anti-SIV antibody response had significantly higher plasma vRNA levels through 12 weeks PI (P = 0.012). The remaining three B-cell-depleted animals made moderate anti-SIV IgG antibody responses, maintained moderate plasma SIV loads, and showed an expected rate of disease progression, surviving to 24 weeks PI without developing AIDS. In contrast, all three of the B-cell-depleted animals prevented from making anti-SIV IgG responses developed AIDS by 16 weeks PI (P = 0.0001). These observations indicate that antiviral antibody responses are critical in maintaining effective control of SIV replication at early time points postinfection.
Long-term control of simian immunodeficiency virus replication with central memory CD4+ T-cell preservation after nonsterile protection by a cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-based vaccine.	Induction of virus-specific CD8(+) cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) responses is a promising strategy for AIDS vaccine development. However, it has remained unclear if or how long-term viral containment and disease control are attainable by CTL-based nonsterile protection. Here, we present three rhesus macaques that successfully maintained Env-independent vaccine-based control of simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) mac239 replication without disease progression for more than 3 years. SIV-specific neutralizing antibody induction was inefficient in these controllers. Vaccine-induced Gag-specific CTLs were crucial for the chronic as well as the primary viral control in one of them, whereas those Gag-specific CTL responses became undetectable and CTLs specific for SIV antigens other than Gag, instead, became predominant in the chronic phase in the other two controllers. A transient CD8(+) cell depletion experiment 3 years postinfection resulted in transient reappearance of plasma viremia in these two animals, suggesting involvement of the SIV non-Gag-specific CTLs in the chronic SIV control. This sustained, neutralizing antibody-independent viral control was accompanied with preservation of central memory CD4(+) T cells in the chronic phase. Our results suggest that prophylactic CTL vaccine-based nonsterile protection can result in long-term viral containment by adapted CTL responses for AIDS prevention.
In vivo fitness costs of different Gag CD8 T-cell escape mutant simian-human immunodeficiency viruses for macaques.	The kinetics of immune escape and reversion depend upon the efficiency of CD8 cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) and the fitness cost of escape mutations. Escape kinetics of three simian immunodeficiency virus Gag CTL epitopes in pigtail macaques were variable; those of KP9 and AF9 were faster than those of KW9. Kinetics of reversion of escape mutant virus to wild type upon passage to nave major histocompatibility complex-mismatched macaques also varied. Rapid reversion occurred at KP9, gradual biphasic reversion occurred at AF9, and escape mutant KW9 virus failed to revert. The fitness impact of these mutations is KP9 > AF9 > KW9. These data provide insights into the differential utility of CTL in controlling viremia.
Out of Africa: what can we learn from HIV-2 about protective immunity to HIV-1?	Most people infected with human immunodeficiency virus 2 (HIV-2) do not progress to disease, even though the minority who do cannot be distinguished clinically from HIV-1-infected patients. Here we review what is known about the basis of viral control in HIV-2 infection.
Enrichment and persistence of virus-specific CTL in the brain of simian immunodeficiency virus-infected monkeys is associated with a unique cytokine environment.	The host reaction to infection of the brain contributes to a number of CNS pathologies including neuro-AIDS. In this study, we have identified the accumulation of SIV-specific CTL in the brains of SIV-infected animals who have neurophysiological abnormalities but are otherwise asymptomatic. SIV-specific CTL enter the brain early after viral infection and are maintained in the brain even when those reactive with an immunodominant epitope in Tat are lost from the rest of the body. The specialized CNS environment contributes to this unique outcome. Following SIV infection, brain levels of IL-15 were significantly elevated whereas IL-2 was absent, creating an environment that favors CTL persistence. Furthermore, in response to IL-15, brain-derived CD8(+) T cells could expand in greater numbers than those from spleen. The accumulation, persistence, and maintenance of CTL in the brain are closely linked to the increased levels of IL-15 in the absence of IL-2 in the CNS following SIV infection.
Divergent TLR7 and TLR9 signaling and type I interferon production distinguish pathogenic and nonpathogenic AIDS virus infections.	Pathogenic HIV infections of humans and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infections of rhesus macaques are characterized by generalized immune activation and progressive CD4(+) T cell depletion. In contrast, natural reservoir hosts for SIV, such as sooty mangabeys, do not progress to AIDS and show a lack of aberrant immune activation and preserved CD4(+) T cell populations, despite high levels of SIV replication. Here we show that sooty mangabeys have substantially reduced levels of innate immune system activation in vivo during acute and chronic SIV infection and that sooty mangabey plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) produce markedly less interferon-alpha in response to SIV and other Toll-like receptor 7 and 9 ligands ex vivo. We propose that chronic stimulation of pDCs by SIV and HIV in non-natural hosts may drive the unrelenting immune system activation and dysfunction underlying AIDS progression. Such a vicious cycle of continuous virus replication and immunopathology is absent in natural sooty mangabey hosts.
Functional deficiency of polymorphonuclear leukocytes in simian acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.	The functional characteristics of polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN), considered to be the first line of host defense against infections, from rhesus macaques confirmed to have simian retrovirus (SRV)-induced simian acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (SAIDS), were evaluated. The PMN from SRV antibody-positive macaques without clinical signs were chemotactically responsive. Their phagocytic and killing capabilities were normal, and their cell membranes were highly deformable. However, PMN from SRV antibody-positive macaques and with persistent lymphadenopathy, as well as having at least 3 of the 11 common clinical signs of AIDS, were chemotactically nonresponsive. Their phagocytic and killing capabilities were compromised, and their cell membranes were rigid and nondeformable. In general, PMN from macaques with clinically confirmed SAIDS were functionally deficient. The results are similar to those obtained in other retroviral infections and can be clinically significant, because the host defense deficiency may be responsible for the recurrent and opportunistic infections in SAIDS.
Model with two types of CTL regulation and experiments on CTL dynamics.	Recently, we developed a mathematical model of interaction between the HIV and the immune system to match various dynamic experiments carried out in HIV-infected humans and SIV-infected macaques. The model includes helper cell-dependent and helper cell-independent cytotoxic lymphocytes (CTLs) and predicts two stable steady states, a state with a high virus load and few helper cells, and another state with a low virus load and many helper cells. Here we upgrade the model to take into account recent reports on the link between the activation status of infected cells and their ability to produce virus, the effect of helper cells at the time of priming on CTL differentiation, and virus dynamics in unvaccinated macaques with a broad genetic background acutely infected with SIVmac251. We also discuss in detail the experimental justification of the CTL block and the robustness of model predictions with respect to the hypothesis of two CTL subtypes.
Selection of genetic variants of simian immunodeficiency virus in persistently infected rhesus monkeys.	Genetic and antigenic variation may be one means by which lentiviruses that cause AIDS avoid elimination by host immune responses. Genetic variation in the envelope gene (env) was studied by comparing the nucleotide sequences of 27 clones obtained from two rhesus monkeys infected with molecularly cloned simian immunodeficiency virus. All 27 clones differed from each other and differed from the input clone in the gp120 (SU) portion of the envelope gene. Nucleotide substitutions were shown to accumulate with time at an average rate of 8.5 per 1,000 per year in SU. Surprisingly, the majority of nucleotide substitutions (81%) resulted in amino acid changes. Variation in SU was not random but occurred predominantly in five discrete regions. Within these variable regions, a remarkable 98% of the nucleotide substitutions changed the amino acid. These results demonstrate that extensive sequence variability accumulates in vivo after infection with molecularly cloned virus and that selection occurs in vivo for changes in distinct variable regions in env.
Interpreting the effect of vaccination on steady state infection in animals challenged with Simian immunodeficiency virus.	A representative vaccinated macaque challenged with SIVmac251 establishes a persistent infection with a lower virus load, higher CTL frequencies, and much higher helper cell frequencies, than a representative control animal. The reasons for the difference are not fully understood. Here we interpret this effect using a mathematical model we developed recently to explain results of various experiments on virus and CTL dynamics in SIV-infected macaques and HIV-infected humans. The model includes two types of cytotoxic lymphocytes (CTLs) regulated by antigen-activated helper cells and directly by infected cells, respectively, and predicts the existence of two steady states with different viremia, helper cell and CTL levels. Depending on the initial level of CTL memory cells and helper cells, a representative animal ends up in either the high-virus state or the low-virus state, which accounts for the observed differences between the two animal groups. Viremia in the low-virus state is proportional to the antigen sensitivity threshold of helper cells. Estimating the infectivity ratio of activated and resting CD4 T cells at 200-300, the correct range for the critical memory cell percentage and the viremia peak suppression is predicted. However, the model does not explain why viremia in the "low-virus state" is surprisingly high , relative to vaccinated animals infected with SHIV, and broadly distributed among challenged animals. We conclude that the model needs an update explaining extremely low sensitivity of uninfected helper cells to antigen in vaccinated animals.
A validated assay to measure soluble IL-7 receptor shows minimal impact of IL-7 treatment.	IL-7 is a crucial cytokine for T cell hematopoiesis and peripheral homeostasis which by signaling through its receptor alpha chain (CD127) is essential for inducing T cell proliferation and survival. Since the specific CD127 alpha chain is found in a soluble state (sCD127) and at a high level in plasma (ng/mL), it is important to develop a sensitive and reliable assay in order to investigate the potential role of this receptor in the regulation of IL-7 physiologic, physipathologic and therapeutic effects. We here report a fully validated method to measure sCD127 in human and simian plasma using a method based on ELISA MSD technology. We demonstrate that sCD127 is detectable at various levels in the plasma of healthy humans as well as in that of healthy Rhesus and Cynomolgus macaques (106.72, 205.26 and 366.95 ng/mL respectively). Moreover, as opposed to the sCD25/IL-2 tandem, we demonstrate that IL-7 treatment has no impact on sCD127 plasma concentration in patients infected by HIV.
Efficacy of multivalent adenovirus-based vaccine against simian immunodeficiency virus challenge.	The prophylactic efficacies of several multivalent replication-incompetent adenovirus serotype 5 (Ad5) vaccines were examined in rhesus macaques using an intrarectal high-dose simian immunodeficiency virus SIVmac239 challenge model. Cohorts of Mamu-A*01(+)/B*17(-) Indian rhesus macaques were immunized with one of several combinations of Ad5 vectors expressing Gag, Pol, Nef, and Env gp140; for comparison, a Mamu-A*01(+) cohort was immunized using the Ad5 vector alone. There was no sign of immunological interference between antigens in the immunized animals. In general, expansion of the antigen breadth resulted in more favorable virological outcomes. In particular, the order of efficacy trended as follows: Gag/Pol/Nef/Env approximately Gag/Pol > Gag approximately Gag/Pol/Nef > Nef. However, the precision in ranking the vaccines based on the study results may be limited by the cohort size, and as such, may warrant additional testing. The implications of these results in light of the recent discouraging results of the phase IIb study of the trivalent Ad5 HIV-1 vaccine are discussed.
Importance of the nef gene for maintenance of high virus loads and for development of AIDS.	When rhesus monkeys were infected with a form of cloned SIVmac239 having a premature stop signal at the 93rd codon of nef, revertants with a coding codon at this position quickly and universally came to predominate in the infected animals. This suggests that there are strong selective forces for open functional forms of nef in vivo. Although deletion of nef sequences had no detectable effect on virus replication in cultured cells, deletion of nef sequences dramatically altered the properties of virus in infected rhesus monkeys. Our results indicate that nef is required for maintaining high virus loads during the course of persistent infection in vivo and for full pathologic potential. Thus, nef should become a target for antiviral drug development. Furthermore, the properties of virus with a deletion in nef suggest a means for making live-attenuated strains of virus for experimental vaccine testing.
Correlation between CD4+ T-cell loss and Gag-specific T cells in different intestinal sites of chronically SIV-infected rhesus monkeys.	To determine the loss of CD4+ T cells and virus-specific cytotoxic T cells (CTL) in different mucosal sites of rhesus monkeys infected with simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV).
Understanding animal models of elite control: windows on effective immune responses against immunodeficiency viruses.	We will summarize recent advances in research regarding control of simian immunodeficiency virus replication in nonhuman primate models. We will then relate these findings to the broader field of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) vaccine development.
Immunodeficiency lentiviral infections in natural and non-natural hosts.	The host immune system is profoundly affected during the acute phase of progressive immunodeficiency lentiviral infections. Studies of these alterations have been quite restricted in humans because of the limited availability of samples from acutely HIV-infected persons. Therefore, numerous studies have turned attention to nonhuman primate models. Specifically, SIV-infected rhesus macaques (RMs) have been informative for understanding the pathogenesis of HIV infection in humans. Indeed, advantages of the nonhuman primate model include the ability to study the very early events after infection and the ability to retrieve copious amounts of tissues. In addition, nonhuman primates allow for comparative studies between non-natural and natural hosts for SIV, in which SIV infection results in progression, or not, to AIDS, respectively. Although SIV infection of RM is the best model for HIV infection, the immunologic and/or virologic phenomena in SIV-infected RM do not always reflect those seen in HIV-infected humans. Here virologic and immunologic aspects of acute HIV infection of humans and SIV infection of Asian and African nonhuman primates are discussed and compared in relation to how these aspects relate to disease progression.
Recently infiltrating MAC387(+) monocytes/macrophages a third macrophage population involved in SIV and HIV encephalitic lesion formation.	Monocytes/macrophages are critical components of HIV and SIV encephalitic lesions. We used in vivo BrdU labeling and markers specific to stages of macrophage differentiation or inflammation to define macrophage heterogeneity and to better define the role of macrophage populations in lesion formation and productive infection. Lesions were heterogeneously composed of resident macrophages (CD68(+)HAM56(+)), perivascular macrophages (CD163(+) CD68(+)MAC387(-)), and recently infiltrated MAC387(+) CD68(-)CD163(-) monocytes/macrophages. At 24 and 48 hours after BrdU inoculation, 30% of MAC387(+) monocytes/macrophages were BrdU(+), consistent with their being recently infiltrated. In perivascular cuffs with low-level SIV replication, MAC387(+) monocytes/macrophages outnumbered CD68(+) macrophages. Conversely, lesions with numerous SIV-p28(+) macrophages and multinucleated giant cells had fewer MAC387(+) monocytes/macrophages. The MAC387(+) cells were not productively infected nor did they express detectable CCR2, unlike perivascular macrophages. Overall, we found that the proportion of MAC387(+) cells tends to be higher than the proportion of CD68(+) macrophages in the brain of animals with mild encephalitis; the ratio was reversed with more severe encephalitis. These results suggest that development of SIV and HIV encephalitis is an active and ongoing process that involves the recruitment and accumulation of: i) nonproductively infected MAC387(+) monocytes/macrophages that are present with inflammation (potentially M1-like macrophages), ii) CD163(+) perivascular macrophages (consistent with M2-like macrophages), and iii) CD68(+) or HAM56(+) resident macrophages. The latter two populations are cellular reservoirs for productive infection.
Strong viremia control in vaccinated macaques does not prevent gradual Th17 cell loss from central memory.	It has been proposed that microbial translocation might play a role in chronic immune activation during HIV/SIV infection. Key roles in fighting bacterial and fungal infections have been attributed to Th17 and Tc17 cells. Th17 cells can be infected with HIV/SIV, however whether effective vaccination leads to their maintenance following viral challenge has not been addressed. Here we retrospectively investigated if a vaccine regimen that potently reduced viremia post-challenge preserved Th17 and Tc17 cells, thus adding benefit in the absence of sterilizing protection. Rhesus macaques were previously vaccinated with replication-competent Adenovirus recombinants expressing HIVtat and HIVenv followed by Tat and gp140 protein boosting. Upon SHIV(89.6P) challenge, the vaccines exhibited a significant 4 log reduction in chronic viremia compared to sham vaccinated controls which rapidly progressed to AIDS [39]. Plasma and cryopreserved PBMC samples were examined pre-challenge and during acute and chronic infection. Control macaques exhibited a rapid loss of CD4(+) cells, including Th17 cells. Tc17 cells tended to decline over the course of infection although significance was not reached. Immune activation, assessed by Ki-67 expression, was associated with elevated chronic viremia of the controls. Significantly increased plasma IFN- levels were also observed. No increase in plasma LPS levels were observed suggesting a lack of microbial translocation. In contrast, vaccinated macaques had no evidence of immune activation within the chronic phase and preserved both CD4(+) T-cells and Tc17 cells in PBMC. Nevertheless, they exhibited a gradual, significant loss of Th17 cells which concomitantly displayed significantly higher CCR6 expression over time. The gradual Th17 cell decline may reflect mucosal homing to inflammatory sites and/or slow depletion due to ongoing low levels of SHIV replication. Our results suggest that potent viremia reduction during chronic SHIV infection will delay but not prevent the loss of Th17 cells.
Dissecting the role of dendritic cells in simian immunodeficiency virus infection and AIDS.	Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection is associated with the loss of the two principal types of dendritic cell (DC), myeloid DC (mDC) and plasmacytoid DC (pDC), but the mechanism of this loss and its relationship to AIDS pathogenesis remain ill-defined. The nonhuman primate is a powerful model to dissect this response for several reasons. Both DC subsets have been well characterized in nonhuman primates and shown to have strikingly similar phenotypic and functional characteristics to their counterparts in the human. Moreover, decline of mDC and pDC occurs in rhesus macaques with end-stage simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infection, the model of HIV infection in humans. In this brief review, we discuss what is known about DC subsets in pathogenic and nonpathogenic nonhuman primate models of HIV infection and highlight the advances and controversies that currently exist in the field.
A divergent myeloid dendritic cell response at virus set-point predicts disease outcome in SIV-infected rhesus macaques.	The mechanism for loss of myeloid dendritic cells (mDCs) from the circulation in HIV-infected individuals and its relationship to disease progression is not understood.
Rapid down-regulation of c on T cells in early SIV infection correlates with impairment of T-cell function.	The common (c) subunit molecule is shared among all (c) cytokines and clearly involved in T-cell function, but its role in HIV infection and immunity is not well understood. Here, we examined expression and function of (c) on T cells during SIV infection in Rhesus macaques. Surface (c) distribution was differentially expressed on CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells, and CD4(+) naive/memory cell populations in various lymphoid tissues of normal macaques. However, surface (c) expression was rapidly and significantly down-regulated on T cells in acute infection with pathogenic SIV, compared to infection with a less virulent SHIV or controls and did not recover on CD8(+) T cells in the chronic stage. Moreover, the peripheral and CD4(+)T cell loss was inversely correlated with (c)(+) CD8(+) T cells in individual tissues. (c)(+) T cells were mainly functional as evidenced by higher cytokine secretion and proliferative capacity. Further in vitro experiments found that surface (c) expression could be down-regulated following high level of IL-7 treatment by both internalization and shedding. Down-regulation of (c) during early HIV/SIV infection may inhibit T-cell function, particularly of CD8(+) T cells, and, may be linked with immune failure and loss of viral containment.
CD8(+) T cells in preventing HIV infection and disease.	The complex interplay between the host immune response and HIV has been the subject of intense research over the last 25 years. HIV and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) CD8 T cells have been of particular interest since they were demonstrated to be temporally associated with reduction in virus load shortly following transmission. Here, we briefly review the phenotypic and functional properties of HIV-specific and SIV-specific CD8 T-cell subsets during HIV infection and consider the influence of viral variation with specific responses that are associated with disease progression or control. The development of an effective HIV/AIDS vaccine combined with existing successful prevention and treatment strategies is essential for preventing new infections. In the context of previous clinical HIV/AIDS vaccine trials, we consider the challenges faced by therapeutic and vaccine strategies designed to elicit effective HIV-specific CD8 T cells.
Microglia activation by SIV-infected macrophages: alterations in morphology and cytokine secretion.	HIV infection in the brain and the resultant encephalitis affect approximately one third of individuals infected with HIV, regardless of treatment with antiretroviral drugs. Microglia are the resident phagocytic cell type in the brain, serving as a "first responder" to neuroinvasion by pathogens. The early events of the microglial response to productively infected monocyte/macrophages entering the brain can best be investigated using in vitro techniques. We hypothesized that activation of microglia would be specific to the presence of simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)-infected macrophages as opposed to responses to macrophages in general. Purified microglia were grown and stimulated with control or SIV-infected macrophages. After 6 h, aliquots of the supernatant were analyzed for 23 cytokines using Millipore nonhuman primate-specific kit. In parallel experiments, morphologic changes and cytokine expression by individual microglia were examined by immunofluorescence. Surprisingly, the presence of macrophages was more important to the microglial response rather than whether the macrophages were infected with SIV. None of the cytokines examined were unique to co-incubation with SIV-infected macrophages compared with control macrophages, or their supernatants. Media from SIV-infected macrophages, however, did induce secretion of higher levels of IL-6 and IL-8 than the other treatments. As resident macrophages in the brain, microglia would be expected to have a strong response to infiltrate innate immune cells such as monocyte/macrophages. This response is triggered by incubation with macrophages, irrespective of whether or not they are infected with SIV, indicating a rapid, generalized immune response when infiltrating macrophages entering the brain.
Simian immunodeficiency virus-induced alterations in monocyte production of tumor necrosis factor alpha contribute to reduced immune activation in sooty mangabeys.	Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection is characterized by persistent viral replication in the context of CD4(+) T cell depletion and elevated immune activation associated with disease progression. In contrast, simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infection of African-origin sooty mangabeys (SM) generally does not result in simian AIDS despite high viral loads and therefore affords a unique model in which to study the immunologic contributions to a nonpathogenic lentiviral disease outcome. A key feature of these natural SIV infections is the maintenance of low levels of immune activation during chronic infection. Our goal was to delineate the contribution of monocytes to maintaining low levels of immune activation in SIV-infected SM. Utilizing an ex vivo whole-blood assay, proinflammatory cytokine production was quantified in monocytes in response to multiple Toll-like receptor (TLR) ligands and a specific, significant reduction in the tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-) response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) was observed in SIV-infected SM. In contrast, monocytes from hosts of pathogenic infections (HIV-infected humans and SIV-infected Asian macaques) maintained a robust TNF- response. In SIV-infected SM, monocyte TNF- responses to low levels of LPS could be augmented by the presence of plasma from uninfected control animals. The impact of LPS-induced TNF- production on immune activation was demonstrated in vitro, as TNF- blocking antibodies inhibited downstream CD8(+) T cell activation in a dose-dependent manner. These data demonstrate an association between nonpathogenic SIV infection of SM and a reduced monocyte TNF- response to LPS, and they identify a role for monocytes in contributing to the suppressed chronic immune activation observed in these natural hosts.
Specific CD8+ T cell responses correlate with control of simian immunodeficiency virus replication in Mauritian cynomolgus macaques.	Specific major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I alleles are associated with an increased frequency of spontaneous control of human and simian immunodeficiency viruses (HIV and SIV). The mechanism of control is thought to involve MHC class I-restricted CD8(+) T cells, but it is not clear whether particular CD8(+) T cell responses or a broad repertoire of epitope-specific CD8(+) T cell populations (termed T cell breadth) are principally responsible for mediating immunologic control. To test the hypothesis that heterozygous macaques control SIV replication as a function of superior T cell breadth, we infected MHC-homozygous and MHC-heterozygous cynomolgus macaques with the pathogenic virus SIVmac239. As measured by a gamma interferon enzyme-linked immunosorbent spot assay (IFN- ELISPOT) using blood, T cell breadth did not differ significantly between homozygotes and heterozygotes. Surprisingly, macaques that controlled SIV replication, regardless of their MHC zygosity, shared durable T cell responses against similar regions of Nef. While the limited genetic variability in these animals prevents us from making generalizations about the importance of Nef-specific T cell responses in controlling HIV, these results suggest that the T cell-mediated control of virus replication that we observed is more likely the consequence of targeting specificity rather than T cell breadth.
Most rhesus macaques infected with the CCR5-tropic SHIV(AD8) generate cross-reactive antibodies that neutralize multiple HIV-1 strains.	The induction of broadly reacting neutralizing antibodies has been a major goal of HIV vaccine research. Characterization of a pathogenic CCR5 (R5)-tropic SIV/HIV chimeric virus (SHIV) molecular clone (SHIV(AD8-EO)) revealed that eight of eight infected animals developed cross-reactive neutralizing antibodies (NAbs) directed against an envelope glycoprotein derived from the heterologous HIV-1(DH12) strain. A panel of plasmas, collected from monkeys inoculated with either molecularly cloned or uncloned SHIV(AD8) stocks, exhibited cross-neutralization against multiple tier 1 and tier 2 HIV-1 clade B isolates. One SHIV(AD8)-infected animal also developed NAbs against clades A and C HIV-1 strains. In this particular infected macaque, the cross-reacting anti-HIV-1 NAbs produced between weeks 7 and 13 were directed against a neutralization-sensitive virus strain, whereas neutralizing activities emerging at weeks 41-51 targeted more neutralization-resistant HIV-1 isolates. These results indicate that the SHIV(AD8) macaque model represents a potentially valuable experimental system for investigating B-cell maturation and the induction of cross-reactive NAbs directed against multiple HIV-1 strains.
The role of exposure history on HIV acquisition: insights from repeated low-dose challenge studies.	To assess the efficacy of HIV vaccine candidates or preventive treatment, many research groups have started to challenge monkeys repeatedly with low doses of the virus. Such challenge data provide a unique opportunity to assess the importance of exposure history for the acquisition of the infection. I developed stochastic models to analyze previously published challenge data. In the mathematical models, I allowed for variation of the animals' susceptibility to infection across challenge repeats, or across animals. In none of the studies I analyzed, I found evidence for an immunizing effect of non-infecting challenges, and in most studies, there is no evidence for variation in the susceptibilities to the challenges across animals. A notable exception was a challenge experiment by Letvin et al. Sci Translat Med (2011) conducted with the strain SIVsmE660. The challenge data of this experiment showed significant susceptibility variation from animal-to-animal, which is consistent with previously established genetic differences between the involved animals. For the studies which did not show significant immunizing effects and susceptibility differences, I conducted a power analysis and could thus exclude a very strong immunization effect for some of the studies. These findings validate the assumption that non-infecting challenges do not immunize an animal - an assumption that is central in the argument that repeated low-dose challenge experiments increase the statistical power of preclinical HIV vaccine trials. They are also relevant for our understanding of the role of exposure history for HIV acquisition and forecasting the epidemiological spread of HIV.
In-vivo stimulation of macaque natural killer T cells with -galactosylceramide.	Natural killer T cells are a potent mediator of anti-viral immunity in mice, but little is known about the effects of manipulating NKT cells in non-human primates. We evaluated the delivery of the NKT cell ligand, -galactosylceramide (-GalCer), in 27 macaques by studying the effects of different dosing (1-100g), and delivery modes [directly intravenously (i.v.) or pulsed onto blood or peripheral blood mononuclear cells]. We found that peripheral NKT cells were depleted transiently from the periphery following -GalCer administration across all delivery modes, particularly in doses of 10g. Furthermore, NKT cell numbers frequently remained depressed at i.v. -GalCer doses of >10g. Levels of cytokine expression were also not enhanced after -GalCer delivery to macaques. To evaluate the effects of -GalCer administration on anti-viral immunity, we administered -GalCer either together with live attenuated influenza virus infection or prior to simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infection of two macaques. There was no clear enhancement of influenza-specific T or B cell immunity following -GalCer delivery. Further, there was no modulation of pathogenic SIVmac251 infection following -GalCer delivery to a further two macaques in a pilot study. Accordingly, although macaque peripheral NKT cells are modulated by -GalCer in vivo, at least for the dosing regimens tested in this study, this does not appear to have a significant impact on anti-viral immunity in macaque models. 
The frequency of (high) memory CD4 T cells correlates with susceptibility to rectal simian immunodeficiency virus infection.	Integrin (high) ((high)) mediates the homing of CD4 T cells to gut-associated lymphoid tissues, which constitute a highly favorable environment for HIV expansion and dissemination. HIV and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) envelope proteins bind to and signal through (high) and during acute infection SIV preferentially infects (high) CD4 T cells. We postulated that the availability of these cells at the time of challenge could influence mucosal SIV transmission and acute viral load (VL).
Effects of alcohol consumption on antigen-specific cellular and humoral immune responses to SIV in rhesus macaques.	Simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infection in macaques chronically receiving ethanol results in significantly higher plasma viral loads and more rapid progression to end-stage disease. We thus hypothesized that the increased plasma viral load in ethanol-treated, SIV-infected macaques would negatively correlate with antigen-specific immune responses.
A single amino acid mutation in the envelope cytoplasmic tail restores the ability of an attenuated simian immunodeficiency virus mutant to deplete mucosal CD4+ T cells.	Disruption of the conserved motif GYxx in the simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) SIVmac239 envelope (Env) cytoplasmic tail resulted in a virus (GY) that exhibited a high plasma peak but uniquely failed to acutely deplete mucosal CD4(+) T cells. Here, we show that GY containing a flanking S727P mutation that was acquired in GY-infected macaques reacquired the ability to rapidly deplete CD4(+) T cells in lamina propria. This suggests that the GYxx motif and S727P each contribute to SIV's targeting to mucosal tissues. 
Enhanced innate antiviral gene expression, IFN-, and cytolytic responses are predictive of mucosal immune recovery during simian immunodeficiency virus infection.	The mucosa that lines the respiratory and gastrointestinal (GI) tracts is an important portal of entry for pathogens and provides the first line of innate immune defense against infections. Although an abundance of memory CD4(+) T cells at mucosal sites render them highly susceptible to HIV infection, the gut and not the lung experiences severe and sustained CD4(+) T cell depletion and tissue disruption. We hypothesized that distinct immune responses in the lung and gut during the primary and chronic stages of viral infection contribute to these differences. Using the SIV model of AIDS, we performed a comparative analysis of the molecular and cellular characteristics of host responses in the gut and lung. Our findings showed that both mucosal compartments harbor similar percentages of memory CD4(+) T cells and displayed comparable cytokine (IL-2, IFN-, and TNF-) responses to mitogenic stimulations prior to infection. However, despite similar viral replication and CD4(+) T cell depletion during primary SIV infection, CD4(+) T cell restoration kinetics in the lung and gut diverged during acute viral infection. The CD4(+) T cells rebounded or were preserved in the lung mucosa during chronic viral infection, which correlated with heightened induction of type I IFN signaling molecules and innate viral restriction factors. In contrast, the lack of CD4(+) T cell restoration in the gut was associated with dampened immune responses and diminished expression of viral restriction factors. Thus, unique immune mechanisms contribute to the differential response and protection of pulmonary versus GI mucosa and can be leveraged to enhance mucosal recovery. 
Vaccines that stimulate T cell immunity to HIV-1: the next step.	The search for a vaccine against human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) has many hurdles to overcome. Ideally, the stimulation of both broadly neutralizing antibodies and cell-mediated immune responses remains the best option, but no candidate in clinical trials at present has elicited such antibodies, and efficacy trials have not demonstrated any benefit for vaccines designed to stimulate immune responses of CD8(+) T cells. Findings obtained with the simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) monkey model have provided new evidence that stimulating effective CD8(+) T cell immunity could provide protection, and in this Perspective we explore the path forward for optimizing such responses in humans. 
Vaccination against endogenous retrotransposable element consensus sequences does not protect rhesus macaques from SIVsmE660 infection and replication.	The enormous sequence diversity of HIV remains a major roadblock to the development of a prophylactic vaccine and new approaches to induce protective immunity are needed. Endogenous retrotransposable elements (ERE) such as endogenous retrovirus K (ERV)-K and long interspersed nuclear element-1 (LINE-1) are activated during HIV-1-infection and could represent stable, surrogate targets to eliminate HIV-1-infected cells. Here, we explored the hypothesis that vaccination against ERE would protect macaques from acquisition and replication of simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV). Following vaccination with antigens derived from LINE-1 and ERV-K consensus sequences, animals mounted immune responses that failed to delay acquisition of SIVsmE660. We observed no differences in acute or set point viral loads between ERE-vaccinated and control animals suggesting that ERE-specific responses were not protective. Indeed, ERE-specific T cells failed to expand anamnestically in vivo following infection with SIVsmE660 and did not recognize SIV-infected targets in vitro, in agreement with no significant induction of targeted ERE mRNA by SIV in macaque CD4+ T cells. Instead, lower infection rates and viral loads correlated significantly to protective TRIM5 alleles. Cumulatively, these data demonstrate that vaccination against the selected ERE consensus sequences in macaques did not lead to immune-mediated recognition and killing of SIV-infected cells, as has been shown for HIV-infected human cells using patient-derived HERV-K-specific T cells. Thus, further research is required to identify the specific nonhuman primate EREs and retroviruses that recapitulate the activity of HIV-1 in human cells. These results also highlight the complexity in translating observations of the interplay between HIV-1 and human EREs to animal models. 
TCR affinity associated with functional differences between dominant and subdominant SIV epitope-specific CD8+ T cells in Mamu-A*01+ rhesus monkeys.	Many of the factors that contribute to CD8+ T cell immunodominance hierarchies during viral infection are known. However, the functional differences that exist between dominant and subdominant epitope-specific CD8+ T cells remain poorly understood. In this study, we characterized the phenotypic and functional differences between dominant and subdominant simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) epitope-specific CD8+ T cells restricted by the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I allele Mamu-A*01 during acute and chronic SIV infection. Whole genome expression analyses during acute infection revealed that dominant SIV epitope-specific CD8+ T cells had a gene expression profile consistent with greater maturity and higher cytotoxic potential than subdominant epitope-specific CD8+ T cells. Flow-cytometric measurements of protein expression and anti-viral functionality during chronic infection confirmed these phenotypic and functional differences. Expression analyses of exhaustion-associated genes indicated that LAG-3 and CTLA-4 were more highly expressed in the dominant epitope-specific cells during acute SIV infection. Interestingly, only LAG-3 expression remained high during chronic infection in dominant epitope-specific cells. We also explored the binding interaction between peptide:MHC (pMHC) complexes and their cognate TCRs to determine their role in the establishment of immunodominance hierarchies. We found that epitope dominance was associated with higher TCR:pMHC affinity. These studies demonstrate that significant functional differences exist between dominant and subdominant epitope-specific CD8+ T cells within MHC-restricted immunodominance hierarchies and suggest that TCR:pMHC affinity may play an important role in determining the frequency and functionality of these cell populations. These findings advance our understanding of the regulation of T cell immunodominance and will aid HIV vaccine design. 
Morphological changes in lymph nodes and expression of VCAM1 and cytokines at the late stages of SIV-induced disease in rhesus monkeys.	Four patterns of structural alterations were found in lymph nodes (LNs) from rhesus monkeys 17 to 34 months after infection with simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV-mac251). SIV p27gag antigen and viral particles were localized either between the processes of follicular dendritic cells (FDCs) or in the cytoplasm of macrophages. In hyperplastic follicles, enlarged germinal centres contained numerous Ki67+ proliferating centroblasts which were rather rare in light zones occupied by the CD23+ FDC network. Involuted follicles contained a small number of Ki67+ centroblasts and the CD23 labelling was limited to a very small apical zone. A correlation was found between the morphological characteristics of the follicles (hyperplasia-involution) and the level of expression of the vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (VCAM1) on FDCs. A gradient in VCAM1 intensity with no expression in the subcapsular-intermediary sinuses, low membrane labelling in the mantle and strong expression in the FDC network was observed. IL1 alpha+ and IL6+ (interleukin) cells (lymphocytes and macrophages) were detected in the mantle, the interfollicular area and the medulla of LNs. Expression of the tumour necrosis factor alpha and ultrastructural markers of interferon alpha production were found in a few FDC and macrophages. Our findings indicate a close relationship between the morphofunctional properties of FDC and the LN structure in SIV infection.
Characterization of a CD4-expressing macaque cell line that can detect virus after a single replication cycle and can be infected by diverse simian immunodeficiency virus isolates.	Primate lentiviruses such as human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) are phenotypically diverse, and virus isolates vary in cytopathicity, replication rate, and cell tropism. While all virus isolates infect primary peripheral blood lymphocytes, only a subset of strains infect established CD4-expressing T-cell lines. Here, we describe the development and characterization of a macaque cell line that can be infected by all of the strains of SIV that we have tested, including macrophage- and T-cell-tropic strains, primary and cell-line adapted strains, and SIVmac, SIVMne, and SIVsm isolates. The cells can be infected by strains of HIV type 2 (HIV-2) to varying degrees, but not by either cloned or primary isolates of HIV type 1 (HIV-1). This cell line is a derivative of a rhesus macaque mammary tumor cell line (CMMT) engineered to express human CD4. For these studies, a CMMT-CD4 clone expressing an integrated copy of a truncated HIV-1 long terminal repeat fused to the beta-galactosidase gene (LTR-beta-gal) was established to allow detection of infectious SIV after a single round of replication. Here, we demonstrate the ability of the CMMT-CD4-LTR-beta-gal cell line to rapidly and quantitatively detect infectious SIV. Using these cells to assay virus, we could readily measure neutralizing antibody activity in animals infected with different SIV isolates. Neutralizing activity was detected against the homologous virus and lower, but detectable, activity was measured against heterologous virus. Thus, this system, which is highly sensitive and can detect infection by all of the SIV isolates we tested, is a rapid method for detecting infectious virus and quantitating neutralizing antibody activity.
Limited viral spread and rapid immune response in lymph nodes of macaques inoculated with attenuated simian immunodeficiency virus.	A comparative study was undertaken to characterize the very early events that distinguish attenuated and pathogenic simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infections. Three rhesus macaques were inoculated with the attenuated SIVmac 251 delta nef virus, and three others with a virus of intermediate phenotype, SIVmac 239 nef stop. They were compared to four macaques inoculated with the pathogenic SIVmac 251 isolate. Lymph nodes (LN) taken between 7 days and 2 months postinoculation were analyzed for SIV expression by in situ hybridization. During acute infection, SIV 21 delta nef infected 1 to 1.5 log10 fewer cells in LN tissue than the pathogenic SIV 251 isolate. The reduction was more marked in the blood, as SIV 251 delta nef infected 2 to 3 log10 fewer PBMC than the isolate and did not yield detectable antigenemia. Morphometric measurements showed that the development of germinal centers (GC) was more rapid in the delta nef infection, which led to a more efficient trapping of viral particles, and could account for antigenemia clearance. The SIV 239 nef stop clone reverted to a nef+ genotype at Week 2, but induced a lower viral burden than a directly pathogenic virus. The kinetics of GC development was rapid, indicating that SIV 239 nef stop induced an immune response similar to that seen in attenuated infection. This study provides evidence that attenuated SIV elicits a more rapid immune response than pathogenic SIV and suggests that an early immunosuppressive episode may facilitate the dissemination of pathogenic SIV.
Inhibition of simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) replication by CD8+ cells of SIV-infected rhesus macaques: implications for immunopathogenesis.	The ability of the CD8+ cells from simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)-infected rhesus macaques to inhibit SIV replication was investigated. Inhibition was produced by a heat-stable soluble factor of molecular size greater than 10kDa. CD8+ supernatants from some macaques were found not only to suppress SIV growth but also to be cytolytic toward both infected and uninfected CD4+ cells. Such indiscriminate CD8+ cell-mediated cell killing may therefore account for DC4+ cell depletion in certain SIV-infected macaques.
Early suppression of SIV replication by CD8+ nef-specific cytotoxic T cells in vaccinated macaques.	In order to develop a successful subunit vaccine against infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), protective immune effector functions must be identified. Until now, there has been only indirect evidence that HIV-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) fulfill this role. Using the macaque simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) model, the protective potential of nef-specific CTLs, stimulated by vaccination, was examined in animals challenged with a high intravenous dose of the pathogenic simian immunodeficiency virus, SIVmac251(32H)(pJ5). An inverse correlation was found between the vaccine-induced nef-specific CTL precursor frequency and virus load measured after challenge. In addition, the early decline in viraemia, observed in both vaccinated and unvaccinated control animals was associated with the development of virus-specific CTL activity and not with the presence of virus-specific neutralizing antibodies. The results imply that vaccines that stimulate strong CTL responses could protect against HIV infection.
Long-term protection against SIV-induced disease in macaques vaccinated with a live attenuated HIV-2 vaccine.	The aim of this study was to test the ability of a live attenuated human immunodeficiency virus type 2 (HIV-2) vaccine to protect cynomolgus monkeys against superinfection with a pathogenic simian immunodeficiency virus (SIVsm). This report is an update on our previously reported observation period of nine months. The new data here show that three of four monkeys vaccinated with live HIV-2 were protected against immunosuppression and SIV-induced disease during more than five years of follow-up. The quality of the immunity was permissive for infection, but monkeys that survived showed restricted viral replication in peripheral blood and lymph nodes. This study shows that it is possible to induce protection against a pathogenic heterologous primate lentivirus and to prevent disease in vaccinated monkeys even if infection is not prevented. These findings provide evidence that protection against AIDS can be achieved by immunization.
Gamma delta T cells in rhesus monkeys and their response to simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infection.	Recent reports of the increase in peripheral blood gamma delta T cells in HIV+ patients prompted us to examine the gamma delta T cell system in rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) and the responses of these cells to SIV infection. Our results reveal differences in the gamma delta T cell subset composition and their expression of CD8 in the peripheral blood of monkeys and humans. The outgrowth of simian gamma delta T cells in response to Daudi cells is similar to that in humans, but the exposure to IL-2 stimulates preferentially the simian V delta 1 subset rather than the V gamma 9/V delta 2 subset as found in humans. Upon SIV infection of the monkeys, we observed a transient increase of the percentage of total gamma delta T cell and the V gamma 9 subset. gamma delta T cells from infected animals also express more activation markers such as CD69, CD44 and the memory marker CD45RO. However, they respond to a lesser degree to Daudi or IL-2 stimulation in the outgrowth experiments compared with uninfected animals, although the subset composition of total gamma delta T cells is similar in infected and uninfected animals. The results clearly indicate that gamma delta T cells in rhesus monkeys are influenced by SIV infection. The detailed analysis of the gamma delta T cell response to SIV infection can serve as a model for understanding human gamma delta T cell responses to HIV infections.
Intrarectal inoculation of macaques by the simian immunodeficiency virus, SIVmne E11S: CD4+ depletion and AIDS.	Macaca nemestrina and Macaca fascicularis were inoculated with various doses of a single-cell clone of SIVmne-infected HuT 78 cells (E11S) by both the intravenous and intrarectal routes. Animals inoculated intravenously at each dose seroconverted and virus was isolated from peripheral blood mononuclear cells, but only the high-dose intrarectally exposed macaques became viremic and seroconverted. However, some seronegative, virus isolation negative intrarectally inoculated macaques showed evidence of infection and disease.
Ultrastructural correlation between follicular dendritic cells and the frequency of virus-like particles during the lymph nodes reaction of SIV/HIV 2 infected cynomolgus monkeys.	Lymph nodes from 18 SIV/HIV2 infected monkeys developing a severe AIDS-like disease were studied by electron microscopy. The lesions were correlated with the histopathologic staining and the anti-SIVp28 immunostaining. The investigation of follicular dendritic cells (FDC) and associated retroviral particles was focused on the light zones of germinal centres during the follicular hyperplasia, fragmentation atrophy and depletion. FDCs were mostly developed in the first two stages, while the highest amount of retroviruses was found in the two middle stages. During the last stage of follicular depletion FDCs were still present but deprived of dendrites and no viral particles were seen around. Associated lesions were small haemorrhages, binucleated FDCs, viral phagocytosis by macrophages and reticular paracrystalline inclusions.
Antibodies to V3 loop peptides derived from chimpanzee lentiviruses and the divergent HIV-1ANT-70 isolate in human sera from different geographic regions.	To study the spread of antibodies to V3 loop peptides of two chimpanzee lentiviruses and the divergent HIV-1ANT-70 isolate (group O) in human sera from different geographic regions, and to compare this with reactions to peptides from known North American (subtype B) and Zarean (subtype D) strains.
MHC-I non-restricted cytotoxic activity in Macaca sylvana experimentally inoculated with HIV2 and SIV/mac.	The anti-retrovirus cell-mediated immunity was repeatedly investigated in seven monkeys (Macaca sylvana). Four of these animals were injected with cell-free supernatants containing human immunodeficiency viruses: two monkeys received HIV1 Bru (2.5 x 10(6) cpm), two received HIV2 Rod (1.5 x 10(6) cpm). Two additional animals were injected with a cell-free supernatant containing simian immunodeficiency virus SIV/mac 251 (1.5 x 10(6) cpm) and the last animal served as control. The four macaques infected with HIV2 Rod and SIV/mac 251 seroconverted. Freshly isolated and non stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells from these infected macaques and from the uninfected control were repeatedly assessed for cytolytic activity. Target cells consisted of heterologous human cell lines expressing HIV1 Bru, HIV2 Rod or SIV/mac proteins. A significant cytotoxic activity, non-restricted at the major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I), was demonstrated in one HIV2 Rod-infected animal (F8) and in one SIV/mac 251-infected animal (M1). This last animal showed progressively diminishing cytolytic activity that was correlated with a pronounced decrease in CD4+ lymphocytes. An AIDS-like disease developed in M1, with presence of lymphadenopathy, weight loss, diarrhea and opportunistic infections. Cytotoxic activity was active against SIV and HIV2-infected target cells in an MHC-unrestricted manner; it was specific to virus-infected cells and there was cross-reactivity between HIV2 and SIV. Cytotoxic effectors appeared to be mainly CD8+ cells. This model may prove to be very useful in evaluating the capacity of candidate AIDS vaccines to elicit effective cell-mediated immune responses.
The immunological manifestations and cytological characteristics of infection caused by the simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) in rhesus monkeys]	The results of immunological and morphological studies of Asian macaques (Macaca mulatta) infected by simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) are summarized in this review of literature. This virus causes development of the immunodeficiency disease that closely resembles human AIDS. Immunological parameters (CD count, antibody response etc.) are described promoting prediction of progression of immunodeficiency in monkeys. The morphological features of injury of internal organs indicate that SIV-induced immunodeficiency is the multisystem disease.
Immune responses induced by prototype vaccines for AIDS in rhesus monkeys.	A battery of assay systems was used to profile both humoral and cell-mediated immune responses induced by immunization with candidate vaccines consisting of recombinant simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) glycoproteins rgp110 (nondenatured) with SAF-M adjuvant (gp110 + SAF-M) or rgp140 (denatured) with Freund's adjuvant (gp140 + FA). All of the monkeys became infected after intravenous challenge. However, 16 days following infection, viral antigenemia was reduced in both groups of vaccinates compared to controls. After 23 days antigenemia in the gp110 + SAF-M group remained at the same level as on day 16, whereas antigenemia in the gp140 + FA group was significantly reduced further than the level observed on day 16. Both vaccines induced blastogenic responses in PBMC cultures stimulated with rgp140, which decreased after repeated immunizations. Both vaccines induced high ELISA titers of IgG antibody against rgp140 that were equivalent to the titers in asymptomatic long-term survivors (LTSs). gp110 +/- SAF-M induced high titers of neutralizing antibody. In contrast, gp140 + FA failed to induce neutralizing antibody, suggesting that the natural conformation of the antigen may be essential for the induction of neutralizing antibody. High titers of antibodies capable of complement-mediated cytolysis (ACC) were induced by gp110 + SAF-M, whereas minimal ACC antibodies were induced by gp140 + FA. In spite of high titers of antibodies by ELISA, neither gp110 + SAF-M nor gp140 + FA vaccines induced detectable levels of antibody capable of antibody dependent cell-mediated cytolysis (ADCC). Detectable amounts of MHC class I-restricted, CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) were not induced in immunized monkeys before challenge. After challenge and infection, antibody responses to glycoprotein (detected by ELISA and ACC) as well as glycoprotein-specific CTLs were induced in gp140 + FA vaccinates at levels higher than in nonimmunized control animals, indicating a priming effect by gp140 + FA immunization. No priming effect for ADCC antibody induction was observed in monkeys vaccinated with either gp110 + SAF-M or gp140 + FA. Rhesus monkey groups immunized with two different SIV envelope vaccines differed regarding potentially protective humoral and cell-mediated immune responses. The physical state of the immunogens, the type of adjuvant used, and/or the immunization protocol apparently affected these responses in both a qualitative and quantitative manner.
Langerhans cells in oral mucosa of rhesus monkeys before and after infection by simian retrovirus-1 and simian immunodeficiency virus.	To study the influence of experimental infection with simian retrovirus-1 and simian immunodeficiency virus on the number and distribution of Langerhans cells in oral mucosa of rhesus monkeys, 10 monkeys were intravenously inoculated with simian retrovirus-1, 7 with simian immunodeficiency virus, and 2 were mock-inoculated. Biopsies were taken from gingiva and cheek pouch before infection and at 1 (simian immunodeficiency virus group only), 4, and 7 months after infection. Langerhans cells were detected in frozen sections by immunohistochemistry with monoclonal antibodies Leu-6 and HLA-DR. The mean number of Langerhans cells per surface millimeter and square millimeter of epithelium was calculated under blind conditions. The results showed no statistically significant differences in the number or distribution of Langerhans cells in the three groups at the various time points of examination. Similarly, no differences were detected within any group over the observation period. Thus systemic infection of rhesus monkeys with either simian retrovirus-1 or simian immunodeficiency virus does not lead to a significant change in the number of Langerhans cells in oral mucosal epithelium.
In vitro spontaneous production of anti-SIV antibodies is a reliable tool in the follow-up of protection of SIV-vaccinated monkeys.	To assess the reliability of the spontaneous in vitro synthesis of simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)-specific antibodies as a marker in the monitoring of protection in SIV-vaccinated animals, Macaca fascicularis monkeys were immunized with formalin-inactivated SIVmac251 or SIVmac251/32H, and challenged with human-derived (SIVmac251/32H) or monkey-derived live SIV. As judged by virus isolation and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) techniques, immunized animals were protected against human-derived SIV challenge, and no spontaneous in vitro synthesis of anti-SIV antibody was observed in nonstimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cell cultures over a 4-month follow-up. On the contrary, human cell-grown SIVmac251 immunization did not afford protection against monkey-derived SIV, and all the animals became infected and showed spontaneous in vitro synthesis of anti-SIV antibodies. These data demonstrate that lack of protection in SIV-vaccinated monkeys is strictly associated with PBMC ability of spontaneously produce anti-SIV antibodies in vitro following challenge, and suggest that this parameter might also constitute a reliable marker for monitoring protection in large-scale HIV vaccination and immunotherapy programs.
The effect of simian immunodeficiency virus infection in vitro and in vivo on the cytokine production of isolated microglia and peripheral macrophages from rhesus monkey.	Microglia are the major target for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection within the central nervous system. Because only a few cells are productively infected, it has been suggested that an aberrant cytokine production by this cell population may be an indirect mechanism leading to the development of neurological disorders in HIV-infected patients. Therefore we decided to study the secretion pattern of several interleukins (IL) by microglial cells and peripheral blood macrophages isolated from uninfected and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)-infected Rhesus monkeys. We found that uninfected, unstimulated primate microglia produce more IL-6 and less TNF alpha than peripheral blood macrophages, but generate comparable levels of IL-1 beta and IL-8. After infection with SIV in vitro, synthesis of all cytokines tested is increased compared to uninfected cultures and to peripheral blood macrophages. Microglia isolated from infected animals produce more IL-8 and TNF alpha than the uninfected cultures and display a strongly increased capacity to secrete TNF alpha upon stimulation with lipopolysaccharide. In addition, production of IL-6 by in vivo-infected microglia increases with time in culture to very high levels despite the fact that only a few cells contained replicating virus. These findings clearly show that the cytokine production of microglia is impaired after SIV infection both in vitro and in vivo and that a low level of viral replication is sufficient for these alterations to occur. In conclusion, the results of this study further support a possible role of cytokines in the pathogenesis of neuro-AIDS.
Virus-induced immunosuppression is linked to rapidly fatal disease in infant rhesus macaques infected with simian immunodeficiency virus.	Six newborn rhesus macaques were experimentally infected with pathogenic Simian immunodeficiency virus of macaques (SIVmac251), and three newborn macaques were infected with avirulent SIVmac1A11. The former developed rapidly fatal simian AIDS and died within 26 wk of age, whereas the latter remained clinically normal. Infant monkeys that developed rapidly progressive disease had rapid declines in CD4+ cells and were unable to mount IgG and IgA antibody responses to SIV or to an unrelated antigen, tetanus toxoid. IgM antibody responses were near normal to both SIV-specific and nonspecific antigens. Cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) responses to SIV envelope were observed in animals infected with either virulent or avirulent SIV. These studies demonstrated that virulent SIVmac infection induced a rapid immunosuppression that was both SIV-specific and nonspecific in nature. The observation that virulent strains of SIV can rapidly induce a global immunosuppression provides one explanation for the rapid disease course in some HIV-infected children and supports the strategy of early and vigorous antiviral drug therapy to alter the disease course even if this does not prevent infection.
Astrocytes and lentivirus infection in an experimental models of macaque infected with SIVmac251]	The present study demonstrates the susceptibility of astrocytes to infection with SIVmac251. Indeed, primary cultures of astrocytes derived from simian adult brains, can be infected in vitro with the SIVmac251. Results show that SIVmac251 establishes a persistent infection in primary astroglial cultures and that viral replication can be reactivated by TNF-alpha, GM-CSF, IFN-gamma. Viral proteins as Nef, Rev, Vpx and occasionally gp120/160 are evidenced by immunocytochemistry. In vivo SIVmac251 and/or HIV-2 infected astrocytes have been isolated from brains of macaques following ex vivo primary cultures. The whole of these results demonstrated that, in this model, SIV establishes a persistent state of infection of astrocytes, that viral replication can be reactivated by cytokines and moreover suggest strongly an in vivo infection of astrocytes in the brain of these infected macaques.
Vpx is required for dissemination and pathogenesis of SIV(SM) PBj: evidence of macrophage-dependent viral amplification.	The viral accessory protein Vpx is required for productive in vitro infection of macrophages by simian immunodeficiency virus from sooty mangabey monkeys (SIV(SM)). To evaluate the roles of Vpx and macrophage infection in vivo, we inoculated pigtailed macaques intravenously or intrarectally with the molecularly cloned, macrophage tropic, acutely pathogenic virus SIV(SM) PBj 6.6, or accessory gene deletion mutants (deltaVpr or deltaVpx) of this virus. Both wild-type and SIV(SM) PBj deltaVpx viruses were readily transmitted across the rectal mucosa. A subsequent 'stepwise' process of local amplification of infection and dissemination was observed for wild-type virus, but not for SIV(SM) PBj deltaVpx, which also showed considerable impairment of the overall kinetics and extent of its replication. In animals co-inoculated with equivalent amounts of wild-type and SIV(SM) Pbj deltaVpx intravenously or intrarectally, the deltaVpx mutant was at a strong competitive disadvantage. Vpx-dependent viral amplification at local sites of initial infection, perhaps through a macrophage-dependent mechanism, may be a prerequisite for efficient dissemination of infection and pathogenic consequences after exposure through either mucosal or intravenous routes.
