Insight into the integrase-DNA recognition mechanism. A specific DNA-binding mode revealed by an enzymatically labeled integrase.	Integration catalyzed by integrase (IN) is a key process in the retrovirus life cycle. Many biochemical or structural human immunodeficiency virus, type 1 (HIV-1) IN studies have been severely impeded by its propensity to aggregate. We characterized a retroviral IN (primate foamy virus (PFV-1)) that displays a solubility profile different from that of HIV-1 IN. Using various techniques, including fluorescence correlation spectroscopy, time-resolved fluorescence anisotropy, and size exclusion chromatography, we identified a monomer-dimer equilibrium for the protein alone, with a half-transition concentration of 20-30 mum. We performed specific enzymatic labeling of PFV-1 IN and measured the fluorescence resonance energy transfer between carboxytetramethylrhodamine-labeled IN and fluorescein-labeled DNA substrates. FRET and fluorescence anisotropy highlight the preferential binding of PFV-1 IN to the 3'-end processing site. Sequence-specific DNA binding was not observed with HIV-1 IN, suggesting that the intrinsic ability of retroviral INs to bind preferentially to the processing site is highly underestimated in the presence of aggregates. IN is in a dimeric state for 3'-processing on short DNA substrates, whereas IN polymerization, mediated by nonspecific contacts at internal DNA positions, occurs on longer DNAs. Additionally, aggregation, mediated by nonspecific IN-IN interactions, occurs preferentially with short DNAs at high IN/DNA ratios. The presence of either higher order complex is detrimental for specific activity. Ionic strength favors catalytically competent over higher order complexes by selectively disrupting nonspecific IN-IN interactions. This counteracting effect was not observed with polymerization. The synergic effect on the selection of specific/competent complexes, obtained by using short DNA substrates under high salt conditions, may have important implications for further structural studies in IN.DNA complexes.
Foamy retrovirus integrase contains a Pol dimerization domain required for protease activation.	Unlike orthoretroviruses, foamy retroviruses (FV) synthesize Pol independently of Gag. The FV Pol precursor is cleaved only once between reverse transcriptase (RT) and integrase (IN) by the protease (PR), resulting in a PR-RT and an IN protein. Only the Pol precursor, not the cleaved subunits, is packaged into virions. Like orthoretroviral PRs, FV PR needs to dimerize to be active. Previously, we showed that a Pol mutant lacking IN has defects in PR activity and Pol packaging into virions. We now show that introduction of a leucine zipper (zip) dimerization motif in an IN truncation mutant can restore PR activity, leading to Pol processing in cells. However, these zip mutants neither cleave Gag nor incorporate Pol into virions. We propose that IN is required for Pol dimerization, which is necessary for the creation of a functional PR active site.
Structural basis of Mos1 transposase inhibition by the anti-retroviral drug Raltegravir.	DNA transposases catalyze the movement of transposons around genomes by a cut-and-paste mechanism related to retroviral integration. Transposases and retroviral integrases share a common RNaseH-like domain with a catalytic DDE/D triad that coordinates the divalent cations required for DNA cleavage and integration. The anti-retroviral drugs Raltegravir and Elvitegravir inhibit integrases by displacing viral DNA ends from the catalytic metal ions. We demonstrate that Raltegravir, but not Elvitegravir, binds to Mos1 transposase in the presence of Mg(2+) or Mn(2+), without the requirement for transposon DNA, and inhibits transposon cleavage and DNA integration in biochemical assays. Crystal structures at 1.7 Å resolution show Raltegravir, in common with integrases, coordinating two Mg(2+) or Mn(2+) ions in the Mos1 active site. However, in the absence of transposon ends, the drug adopts an unusual, compact binding mode distinct from that observed in the active site of the prototype foamy virus integrase. 
