Effect of interferon treatment on expression of gC and gE glycoproteins in herpes simplex virus-infected cells.	The effect of interferon treatment on the herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1)-specific glycoproteins gC and gE in homologous and heterologous cells has been investigated. In human embryonic fibroblastic cells, human leukocyte interferon inhibited virus multiplication and expression of the HSV-1-specific glycoproteins gC and gE on the cell surface in a dose-dependent manner. In heterologous baby hamster kidney cells, the human interferon had no effect on virus multiplication. However, the surface expression of the HSV-1-specific glycoproteins was reduced, as shown by erythrocyte rosette formation, by attachment of monodisperse polystyrene particles coated with antibodies and by immunogold scanning electron microscopy.
Intracellular maturation and sorting of two herpes simplex virus type 1 glycoproteins. Immunogold staining of ultrathin cryosections.	Simultaneous immunocytochemical triple staining of ultrathin cryosections of herpes simplex virus type 1-infected cells was carried out using monoclonal antibodies specific for glycoprotein C, glycoprotein D and alpha + beta tubulin. The viral glycoproteins were identified in the cytoplasm, in the Golgi sacs, on the plasma membrane and on the surface of intra- and extracellular virus particles, but not on the nuclear membrane. The glycoproteins identified in the cytoplasm outside the Golgi region were not always confined to the membranes of vesicles, but were often located in close proximity to the tubulin-labelled structures. The glycoproteins C and D were usually codistributed in the cytoplasm, and both accumulated in the Golgi sacs in the same membrane domains. As the glycoproteins occur in close proximity to the microtubular structures, we speculate that these might be directly involved in the intracellular transport of viral glycoproteins.
Identification and characterization of a novel non-infectious herpes simplex virus-related particle.	During gradient purification of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) two bands of particles were observed: a sharp lower band and a more diffuse upper band. The lower band contained almost exclusively HSV-1 virions (H particles) whereas the upper band consisted of membrane-enclosed particles (L particles). These L particles resembled the virions in appearance, but lacked the viral nucleocapsid and were not infectious. Many polypeptides of the viral envelope and the tegument were common to both types of particles. The H particles had polypeptide profiles typical of HSV virions. The L particles contained at least three phosphoproteins (175K, 92K and 55K) and a further two phosphorylated polypeptides not normally observed in virion profiles which comigrated with the 134K and 60K glycoproteins. This clearly indicates that the novel L particles were not merely virions which had formed without the inclusion of a nucleocapsid or virions which had subsequently lost their nucleocapsid during preparative handling. Thus these novel L particles are genuine products of the infectious processes occurring when HSV-1 replicates.
Physical map of the origin of defective DNA in herpes simplex virus type 1 DNA.	The origin of defective DNA (dDNA) of the Patton strain of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) was physically mapped with BamHI in the parental DNA. The dDNA obtained from virus passaged at high multiplicities of infection was resistant to cleavage with HindIII, whereas digestion with EcoRI yielded a cluster of fragments 5.4 to 5.7 megadaltons (Mdal) in size. Cleavage with BamHI gave a cluster of fragments 2.6 to 3.2 Mdal in size, plus two homogeneous, comigrating 1-Mdal fragments. One of the latter fragments contained the single EcoRI site approximately 65 base pairs from one end. Hybridization of in vitro labeled dDNA probe to EcoRI, HindIII, BamHI, and Hpa I digests of nondefective HSV-1 DNA demonstrated that, in addition to the S-region terminal repeat, only one end of the S region was involved in the generation of this class of dDNA. Thus, the dDNA probe did not hybridize to either the S region 3.0-Mdal HindIIIN fragment or a 3.0-Mdal BamHI fragment of the adjacent 8.7-Mdal HindIIIG fragment, but did hybridize to four BamHI fragments of HindIII G (approximately 5.7 Mdal). The cluster of 2.6- to 3.2-Mdal fragments obtained with BamHI digestion of dDNA appears to represent a novel junction between the termination of dDNA adjacent to the 3.0-Mdal BamHI fragment in HindIII G and the 2.0- to 2.3-Mdal BamHI fragment terminal in HSV-1 DNA.
Physical maps for HSV type 2 DNA with five restriction endonucleases.	The ordering of restriction endonuclease fragments of HSV-2 DNA for physical maps has been studied using molecular hybridization techniques and the cleavage of isolated restriction endonuclease fragments with further restriction endonucleases. Physical maps for the fragments produced by EcoRI, Hind III, Bgl II, Xba and Hpa I have been constructed. The mol. wt. of the various regions which constitute HSV-2 genome are very similar to the corresponding mol. wt. in the HSV-1 genome.
Analysis of herpes simplex virus low molecular-weight native proteins by polyacrylamide gel electrofocusing.	This communication has demonstrated the potential application of gel electrofocusing for the isolation and further characterization of HSV-2 native proteins. At least eight major HSV-2 specific proteins with characteristic isoelectric points could be reproducibly resolved by gel isoelectric focusing. Their isoelectric points ranged from 5.0 to 7.5 and analysis by two-dimensional electrophoresis on SDS gels indicated that their molecular weights range from 11,000 to 49,000.
Cytochemical analysis of DNA organization during encapsidation in herpes simplex virus.	The organization of intranuclear Herpes simplex virus DNA in rabbit fibroblast cells infected for 7 hr with HSV type 1 was examined before and during encapsidation by electron microscopic cytochemistry. Most non-encapsidated viral deoxyribonucleoprotein fibers exhibited a non-nucleosomal configuration. Empty capsids within the virus-specific regions of infected nuclei were wrapped with portions of the viral genome which adhered tightly to their surfaces even under conditions that loosened and spread apart other nucleoprotein fibers. During encapsidation, the internal surface of the capsid shell also appeared to bind a part of the viral genome, specifically the outer cage portion, which is detectable in methanol-dehydrated cells. Variations in the amount of DNA within the capsids indicated that the insertion of HSV genome into the capsid is a progressive process. The cage and core cylinder portions of the viral nucleoid appear to form and develop simultaneously. We propose that there may be binding sites on both the external and internal surfaces of the capsid shells which might play a role in the encapsidation process.
Mapping of epitopes on the 65k DNA-binding protein of herpes simplex virus type 1.	Previously we have described the isolation of seven monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) and two polyvalent rabbit sera directed against the product of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) gene UL42, a 65K DNA-binding protein (65KDBP) which is essential for HSV DNA replication and virus growth. We now report the synthesis of all 483 overlapping hexapeptides of this 488 amino acid protein and describe their use for the identification of epitopes recognized by these MAbs and polyvalent sera. MAb 6898, derived from one fusion, recognizes the peptides EDLDGA and DLDGAA which correspond to amino acids 363 to 369 of 65KDBP. MAbs Z4D4, Z6F3, Z1A8, Z10Cl, Z3H12 and Z1F11, derived from a second fusion, all recognize the peptides GDPEDL and DPEDLD which correspond to amino acids 360 to 366. As expected both polyvalent sera recognize several different epitopes.
Purification of the herpes simplex virus type 1 65-kilodalton DNA-binding protein: properties of the protein and evidence of its association with the virus-encoded DNA polymerase.	Using a combination of conventional column chromatography and velocity sedimentation, we have purified the 65-kilodalton DNA-binding protein (65KDBP) encoded by herpes simplex virus (HSV) greater than 625-fold. The HSV type 1 (HSV-1)-encoded DNA polymerase (pol) cofractionated with 65KDBP through DEAE-Sephacel, Blue Sepharose, and Mono Q columns and was only separated from 65KDBP by sedimentation through a glycerol gradient. Immunoaffinity columns containing monoclonal antibody (MAb) 6898 immunoglobulin effectively bound most of the HSV-1 pol activity which coeluted with 65KDBP. The pattern of reactivities of HSV-1/HSV-2 recombinants with MAbs specific for HSV-1 65KDBP or the HSV-2-infected cell-specific protein ICSP34,35 strongly suggests that these two species are serotype equivalents of the same protein. Taken together, all these data indicate that 65KDBP is a pol-associated protein and the HSV-1 counterpart of HSV-2 ICSP34,35 previously reported to have similar properties (P. J. Vaughan, D. J. M. Purifoy, and K. L. Powell, J. Virol. 53:501-508, 1985). Purified preparations of 65KDBP were capable of binding to double-stranded DNA, as determined by filter retention and mobility shift assays. The protein-DNA complex formed with 65KDBP was distinct from that produced by pol and could be further shifted by the addition of immunoglobulin specific for 65KDBP. These results demonstrate that 65KDBP has been purified substantially free from pol and indicate that DNA binding is an inherent property of the protein.
Comparative polypeptide analysis of human, murine and strigis herpesviruses with murine cytomegalovirus by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis.	The polypeptide composition of five purified murine herpesvirus (MHV) strains grown in a stable line of rabbit embryo fibroblasts (REF) was analysed by sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and compared with herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1). About 24 structural polypeptides of molecular mass ranging from 275,000 to 25,000 were identified in MHV and HSV-1. The polypeptide profiles of MHV and HSV-1, showed a close similarity. The polypeptides of MHV were further compared with those of HSV-1, HSV-2, herpes virus strigis (HVS) and murine cytomegalovirus (MCMV). Differences were found between herpesviruses of different origin and MCMV. SDS-PAGE analysis of the six strains of MCMV labelled with 14C-amino acid hydrolysate also revealed differences in electrophor eticprofiles of MHV and MCMV proteins, what was confirmed by densitometric scanning of HSV-1, MHV and MCMV.
DNA sequence of the major capsid protein gene of herpes simplex virus type 1.	The DNA sequence of the region of the herpes simplex virus type 1 genome encoding the major capsid protein was determined. The predicted protein contains 1374 amino acid residues and has a molecular weight of 149,075. Comparisons of the amino acid sequence of this protein with those predicted from the published DNA sequences of two other herpesviruses, varicella-zoster virus and Epstein-Barr virus, resulted in the identification of the major capsid protein gene in each genome.
Identification of a novel herpes simplex virus type 1-induced glycoprotein which complexes with gE and binds immunoglobulin.	We detected a glycoprotein on the surface of cells infected with herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) which, in conjunction with gE, binds immunoglobulin G (IgG). The novel glycoprotein, which has an apparent molecular mass of 70 kilodaltons and was provisionally named g70, was first detected in extracts of HSV-1-infected cells labeled by lactoperoxidase-catalyzed iodination and precipitated with rabbit sera or IgG and protein A-Sepharose. In subsequent experiments, g70 and gE were coprecipitated from extracts of HSV-1-infected cells labeled with [35S]methionine, [35S]cysteine, or 14C-amino acids. We were unable to precipitate a polypeptide analogous to g70 or gE from extracts of HSV-2-infected cells with rabbit IgG and protein A-Sepharose. Partial proteolytic peptide analysis indicated that g70 is structurally distinct from gE and gI). In addition, g70 was electrophoretically distinct from the HSV-1 Us4 glycoprotein gG. HSV-1 gE, expressed in mouse cells transfected with the gE gene, was not precipitated with rabbit IgG, nor could these cells bind radiolabeled IgG, suggesting that gE alone cannot act as an IgG (Fc) receptor. This result, coupled with the findings that gE and g70 are coprecipitated with IgG and with an anti-gE monoclonal antibody, suggests that gE and g70 form a complex which binds IgG. The electrophoretic mobilities of g70 molecules induced by different strains of HSV-1 differed markedly, arguing that g70 is encoded by the virus and is not a cellular protein induced by virus infection.
Proteins spcified by herpes simplex virus. II. Viral glycoprotins associated with cellular membranes.	Membranes prepared from HEp-2 cells infected with herpes simplex virus and free from soluble proteins, virus, ribosomes, and other cellular constituents were solubilized and subjected to electrophoresis on acrylamide gels. The electropherograms showed the following. (i) The synthesis of host proteins and glycoproteins ceases after infection. However, the spectrum of host proteins in membranes remains unaltered. (ii) Between 4 and 22 hr postinfection, at least four glycoproteins are synthesized and bound to the smooth cytoplasmic membranes. On electrophoresis, these glycoproteins form two major and two minor bands in the gel and migrate with proteins ranging from 50,000 to 100,000 daltons in molecular weight. (iii) The same glycoproteins are present in all membranes fractionated by density and in partially purified virus. The implications of the data are discussed.
Size, composition, and structure of the deoxyribonucleic acid of herpes simplex virus subtypes 1 and 2.	Studies of the size, composition, and structure of the deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) of the F and G prototypes of herpes simplex virus (HSV) subtypes 1 and 2 (HSV-1 and HSV-2) showed the following. (i) As previously reported by Good-heart et al. HSV-1 and HSV-2 DNA have a buoyant density of 1.726 and 1.728 g/cm(3), corresponding to 67 and 69 guanine +/- cytosine moles per cent, respectively. The difference in guanine plus cytosine content of the DNA species was confirmed by the finding of a 1 C difference in T(m). (ii) The DNA from purified virus on cocentrifugation with T4 DNA in neutral sucrose density gradients sedimented at 55S, corresponding to 99 +/- 5 million daltons in molecular weight. HSV-1 and HSV-2 DNA could not be differentiated with respect to size. (iii) Cosedimentation of alkali-denatured DNA from purified virus with T4 DNA on alkaline sucrose density gradients consistently yielded several bands of single-stranded HSV DNA ranging from fragments 7 x 10(6) daltons to intact strands 48 x 10(6) daltons in molecular weight.
Structural analysis of the capsid polypeptides of herpes simplex virus types 1 and 2.	Capsids of herpes simplex virus (HSV) types 1 and 2 contain seven polypeptides ranging in molecular weight from 154,000 to 12,000 (termed NC-1 through NC-7 in order of descending molecular weight). Antibodies prepared to HSV-1 capsid polypeptides isolated from sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gels reacted in an immunofluorescence assay against HSV-1-infected KB cells. Three of the antibodies (anti-NC-1, anti-NC-2, and anti-NC-3,4) also reacted with HSV-2-infected cells. Tryptic peptide analysis showed that each of the HSV-1 capsid polypeptides had a unique methionine peptide profile, and none appeared to be derived from the major capsid polypeptide. Comparative peptide analysis of HSV-1 and HSV-2 showed that one polypeptide (NC-7, 12,000 molecular weight) had an identical methionine peptide profile and a very similar arginine peptide profile in both virus types. The arginine peptide profile of NC-7 of HSV-1 was very different from the arginine profile of KB histone H4. Although there were certain intertypic similarities in the methionine peptide profiles of the other capsid components especially in NC-1 (the major capsid protein), there was no case where the tryptic peptides were identical in the two virus types.
Identification of the herpes simplex virus DNA sequences present in six herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase-transformed mouse cell lines.	We have used a novel filter hybridization approach to detect and map the herpes simplex virus (HSV) DNA sequences which are present in four HSV thymidine kinase (HSVtk+)-transformed cell lines which were derived by exposure of thymidine kinase negative (tk-) mouse cells to UV light-irradiated HSV type 2 (HSV-2). In addition, we have mapped the HSV-1 DNA sequences which are present in two HSV-1tk+-transformed cell lines produced by transfection of tk- mouse cells with sheared HSV-1 DNA. The results of these studies can be summarized as follows. (i) The only HSV DNA sequences which were common to all HSVtk+-transformed cells were those located between map coordinates 0.28 and 0.32. Thus, this region contains all of the viral DNA sequences which are necessary for the expression of HSV-mediated tk transformation. (ii) Many of the cell lines also contained variable amounts of non-tk gene viral DNA sequences located between map coordinates 0.11 to 0.57 and 0.82 to 1.00, suggesting that incorporation of the viral DNA sequences located between these map coordinates is a relatively random event. (iii) The viral DNA sequences located between map coordinates 0 to 0.11 and 0.57 to 0.82 were uniformly absent from all of the HSVtk+ cell lines tested, suggesting that there is a strong negative selective pressure against incorporation of these viral DNA sequences.
Ultrastructural characterization of an early, nonstructural polypeptide of herpes simplex virus type 1.	An immunoperoxidase procedure was employed to study the expression of a large-molecular-weight, virus-induced polypeptide (VP175; molecular weight, 175,000) at the light and electron microscopic levels in Vero cells infected with herpes simplex virus type 1 or with tsB2, a DNA-negative, temperature-sensitive mutant of herpes simplex virus type 1. In cells infected with herpes simplex virus type 1 and in cells infected with tsB2 at the permissive temperature (34 degrees C), VP175 was found within the nucleus. The protein was detected as early as 2 h postinfection and, by 3 h postinfection, was generally distributed in a marginated pattern contiguous with, and extending from, the inner lamella of the nuclear membrane. At 6 h postinfection, protein accumulations were dispersed throughout the nucleus, and, by 9 h postinfection, these accumulations tended to be localized in a marginated pattern near the nuclear membrane. It was also noted that, at 9 h postinfection, under permissive conditions, VP175 was not found in association with nucleocapsids or enveloped particles. In contrast, in cells infected with tsB2 at the nonpermissive temperature (39 degrees C) and harvested at 6 or 9 h postinfection, accumulations of VP175 were identified not only within the nucleus, but also within the cytoplasm in the form of annular or globular aggregates. These aggregates consisted of a granular matrix and were not bound by membranes.
Characterization of herpes simplex virus type 1 RNA present in the absence of de novo protein synthesis.	We used herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) DNA and restriction fragments of HSV-1 DNA covalently coupled to cellulose as a reagent to isolate for further characterization the major and minor HSV-1 immediate-early mRNA species in HeLa cells infected and maintained in the absence of de novo protein synthesis. Five major and several minor immediate-early mRNA species were characterized. One major species was a 4.2-kilobase mRNA mapping in the TR(S)/IR(S) region with its 3' end distal to the U(S) region; this mRNA encoded a 170,000-dalton polypeptide in vitro. A 2.8-kilobase mRNA, encoding a 120,000-dalton polypeptide, was mapped in the TR(L)/IR(L) region with its 3' end directed toward the U(L) region. Three 1.8-kilobase mRNA species were mapped. One, mapping in the IR(S) region with its 3' end in the U(S), encoded a 68,000-dalton polypeptide. One mapped in the TR(S) region and had its 3' end in the U(S) region; the third one encoded a 64,000-dalton polypeptide and mapped in the U(L) region near the IR(L) region. One minor species 5.2 kilobases in size was clearly detectable mapping in the U(L) region. Furthermore, there were indications that one or more immediate-early mRNA species approximately 3 kilobases in size hybridized to regions near the TR(L) and in or near the TR(S)/IR(S) regions. Nuclear immediate-early RNA mapped only in those regions where polyribosomal immediate-early mRNA mapped, although minor differences were seen. Finally, we demonstrated that at least three major immediate-early mRNA's-4.2 kilobases, 2.8 kilobases, and the 1.8-kilobase one mapping in the IR(S)/U(S) region-continued to appear on polyribosomes as functional mRNA late after infection.
Glycoprotein C of herpes simplex virus type 1: characterization of O-linked oligosaccharides.	In contrast to other viral glycoproteins, the herpes simplex virus (HSV) glycoprotein C(gC) binds to the N-acetylgalactosamine-specific Helix pomatia lectin (HPA). In the present paper gC was purified by affinity chromatography with monospecific antibodies and the purified glycoprotein was subjected to protease digestion. HPA-binding protease-resistant glycopeptides were isolated by lectin affinity chromatography. The isolated structures did not bind to concanavalin A and seemed to lack charged groups as determined by ion-exchange chromatography. In gel filtration, the glycopeptides appeared in two peaks with molecular weights higher than 4000. The HPA-binding structures of gC were synthesized in the presence of tunicamycin, indicating that they belong to the O-glycosyl class of oligosaccharides. In addition to HPA-binding oligosaccharides, synthesis of tunicamycin-resistant wheat germ lectin-binding gC oligosaccharides was demonstrable. These were sensitive to sialidase and apparently unrelated to the HPA-binding oligosaccharides.
Detection of herpes simplex virus in clinical specimens by DNA hybridization.	An assay to detect herpes simplex virus (HSV) DNA in clinical specimens has been developed. It utilizes nucleic acid hybridization with a 32P-labeled DNA probe prepared from a fragment of HSV DNA cloned in a plasmid vector. This assay can detect 5 X 10(4) plaque-forming units of cell-free HSV and as few as four virus-infected cells. The assay has a sensitivity of 78% and a specificity of 100% compared to virus culture for the detection of HSV in swab specimens from genital lesions. No hybridization is observed with uninfected, varicella-zoster virus infected, or cytomegalovirus infected cells, and specimens from herpes zoster lesions are uniformly negative. While hybridization with a 32P-labeled probe is not optimally suited for routine diagnostic use, this report establishes the feasibility of using nucleic acid hybridization to detect HSV in clinical specimens.
