Evaluation of the efficacity of coconut (Cocos nucifera), palm nut (Eleais guineensis) and gobi (Carapa procera) lotions and creams in indivirual protection against Simulium damnosum s.l. bites in Côte d'Ivoire]	With the interruption of larva treatments done by OCP as part of onchocerciasis control in West Africa, Simulium came back in abundance in forest regions and savannah fertile valleys. In addition to the severe discomfort, nuisance by Simulium is in certain cases incompatible with land use. Since ground treatment of larval breading sites using insecticides is not always possible or efficient, it is therefore a necessity to develop other methods among which individual protection against Simulium bites. The general objective of our study was to evaluate different vegetable oil compound repellent formulas against Simulium bites. Activities were carried out in savannah zone (Niakaramandougou) and in forest zone (Soubré) in Côte d'Ivoire. The methodology consisted in catching blackflies on volunteers whose legs were rubbed with a repellent. Gobi raw oil and coconut, palm nut and gobi formulas (lotions and creams) were tested. During each session, which lasted from 07:00 am to 12:00 and from 03:00 pm to 06:00 pm, one person did not apply any repellent and was used as the control person. The results of our experimentations show that for a given zone (savannah, forest), a repellent (coconut, palm nut, gobi) and a compound (shea butter, vaseline), there is no significant difference between protection rates obtained with lotions (maximum: 21 bites/person/day) and those obtained with creams (maximum: 30 bites/person/day). In other respects, the lotion of a given repellent seems to be efficient in savannah as in the forest, in protecting against Simulium bites. It is the same situation with creams. So, repellents can be an efficient solution against Simulium nuisance. However, experimentations should continue to confirm the high repellency of tested formulas, proceed to the identification of principles and evaluate the toxicity and irritant effect of repellents to be applied on the skin.
Susceptibility of black fly larvae (Diptera: Simuliidae) to lawn-care insecticides individually and as mixtures.	Urban and suburban watersheds have the potential to be highly impacted by chemicals, especially insecticides to control insect pests on lawns, ornamental plants, and home gardens. Three of the most common lawn-care insecticides detected in urban watersheds, carbaryl, chlorpyrifos, and malathion, have been evaluated using an acute orbital shaker toxicity test to determine their respective concentrations that produce 50% mortality (LC50) in Simulium vittatum Zetterstedt cytospecies IS-7 larvae. Results of the 48-h LC50 tests show chlorpyrifos to be the most toxic to black fly larvae (LC50 = 0.28 microg/L) followed by carbaryl (LC50 = 23.72 microg/L) and malathion (LC50 = 54.20 microg/L). These insecticides were also tested as binary and ternary mixtures using the toxic unit (TU) approach. Toxicity was shown to be greater than additive for the ternary mixture of chlorpyrifos-carbaryl-malathion (LC50 = 0.56 TU) and the binary mixtures of chlorpyrifos-malathion (LC50 = 0.72 TU) and carbaryl-malathion (LC50 = 0.78 TU). The binary combination of chlorpyrifos and carbaryl was shown to be additive (LC50 = 0.98 TU). These results indicate that aquatic invertebrate populations in urban and suburban streams may experience a higher-than-expected increase in toxicity-related effects when all three chemicals are present in the waterway.
Impact of the black fly (Diptera: Simuliidae) control agent Bacillus thuringiensis var. israelensis on chironomids (Diptera: Chironomidae) and other nontarget insects: results of ten field trials.	Except for moderate mortality among filter-feeding chironomids, Rheotanytarsus spp., the results of 10 field trials with Bacillus thuringiensis var. israelensis (B.t.i.) indicated a wide margin of safety to the chironomid community and other stream nontarget insects. Mayflies, caddisflies and 2 other types of chironomids, i.e., tube-dwelling (Chironominae) and surface-dwelling, caseless larvae (mix of Chironominae, Diamesinae, Orthocladiinae, Tanypodinae), did not appear to be affected. The susceptibility of filter-feeding chironomids was considerably less than black flies; for example, 4 months of data collected during an operational black fly control program indicated a mean (+/- 95% CI) mortality among Rheotanytarsus larvae of 23 (15-32)% vs. 98 (97-99)% among black flies. Although clearly demonstrating the potential of adverse impact on filter-feeding chironomids in operational black fly programs, these trials also confirmed the narrow impact of B.t.i. on the overall stream insect community.
Modern medicine versus an ancient scourge: progress toward control of onchocerciasis.	Control of human onchocerciasis has been problematic. Vector control is practical and effective in only a circumscribed region of West Africa. Even in this area, control depends on meticulous monitoring of the vector and associated parasite species and precise application of requisite larvicide on a regular basis. As an alternative to vector control, chemotherapy-based control has been revolutionized by the finding that ivermectin, a novel semisynthetic macrocyclic lactone, is acceptable for mass distribution at the community level and that it represents an effective means of disease control when given once yearly. Efforts are underway to develop a vaccine to prevent infection.
Onchocerciasis infection in children born during 14 years of Simulium control in West Africa.	The incidence of onchocerciasis infection in children born since the start of vector control is one of the indicators used in the epidemiological evaluation of the Onchocerciasis Control Programme in West Africa (OCP). Though initially of littel value, after a decade of control it has become a sensitive indicator of residual transmission. The results of 14 years of control are reported. In 179 villages parasitological surveys were undertaken at intervals of 3-4 years. 15,286 children were examined and 110 were found to be infected, compared to an expected number of 2467 infected had there been no control. There was considerable geographical variation in the results. In the large central OCP area the results were excellent. Of 12,172 children examined in 127 villages, only 23 were found to be infected compared to an expected number of 1960 without control. This suggests that larviciding had achieved a 99% reduction in the incidence of infection in children. Additional surveys in 2 foci in the central OCP area where transmission had relapsed showed that these problems were very localized. Most villages with infected children were found in OCP border areas in the east and west, which had been reinvaded by infective vectors from elsewhere, and in the intermediate area between forest and savanna in Côte d'Ivoire where there had been partial control failures because of resistance. The incidence of infection in children was reduced by an estimated 68% in the eastern reinvaded area, by 87% in the western reinvaded area, and by 84% in the intermediate area.
Comparison of morning and evening larvicide applications on black fly (Diptera: Simuliidae) mortality.	The downstream movement, or drift, of larval black flies as well as many other aquatic insects has been well documented. This phenomenon has most often been associated with the dusk-to-overnight time frame. Operationally, larvicide applications targeting black flies are typically initiated early in the day and can extend until near sunset. To determine if larvicide applications conducted late in the day would be affected by the drift behavior of larval black flies, 6 larvicide applications were conducted. Three applications were conducted at midmorning and 3 during the evening. Larvicidal applications of Bacillus thuringiensis subsp. israelensis insecticidal proteins targeting Simulium appalachiense demonstrated no difference in larval mortality between morning and evening applications. These findings indicate that the larvae responded in a similar manner to the larvicide during the late morning to early afternoon and evening to night. The drift behavior of larval black flies does not appear to be an impediment to black fly suppression activities.
Immunomodulating effects and hypersensitivity reactions caused by Northeast Indian black fly salivary gland extract.	The genus Simulium, black fly (Diptera), comprises >1800 species worldwide, of which 67 species under six subgenera have been well studied in India. While at the extreme, black fly bites can cause onchocerciasis or river blindness, the majority of clinical observations indicate mainly severe pain and continuous itching at bite sites. This investigation experimentally observed that black fly salivary extract (BFSE) causes unique biologic effects including immunomodulation, anti-coagulation, and hypersensitivity reactions in Wistar rats. Salivary glands from black flies were isolated, extracted in saline, and then ≈800 ng extract (BFSE) subcutaneously injected into rats. To evaluate potential immunosuppressive activity of the BFSE, serum levels of interleukins [IL]-6 and -10 and tumor necrosis factor [TNF]-α were assayed. To assess the BFSE impact on coagulation, activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), prothrombin time (PT), and bleeding time, as well as generation of coagulation activated factors I, IX, and X were analyzed. Anaphylaxis induction was monitored via electrocardiogram (ECG) and measures of blood pressure and rectal temperature. The data showed that BFSE treatment resulted in a significantly prolonged aPTT, PT, and bleeding time and reversibly inhibited generation of coagulation activated factors I, IX, and X. The extract also led to a prolonged (up to 48 h) suppression of serum IL-6, IL-10, and TNFα production. While these results suggest that BFSE possesses anti-thrombotic, anti-coagulant, and immunomodulatory activities, importantly, they also indicate that the extract has a capacity to induce anaphylaxis and acute cardiotoxicity.
Localized onchocerciasis vector control in the Bahr el Ghazal Region of South-Western Sudan. II. Control.	Onchocerciasis vector breeding along 41 km of the Bussere River in the Wau Area of South-Western Sudan was controlled with temephos (Abate) insecticide for one annual transmission period. Vector biting and transmission was compared to the two years of precontrol data. Up to 70% reductions in vector biting and 80% reductions in transmission were recorded at sites with the highest precontrol levels. The flies invading in the control year (principally those invading from the south-west in the main part of the rainy season) were found to be much less infective - 2390 fly bites would be needed to transmit 100 larvae in the control year, compared to 1490 in the precontrol years. It was concluded that localized vector control could have a major impact on onchocerciasis transmission and that in this, and many other foci in Sudan, permanent reductions could be achieved by causeway removal and selective vegetation clearance.
Epizootic vesicular stomatitis in Colorado, 1982: some observations on the possible role of wildlife populations in an enzootic maintenance cycle.	Sera obtained from wild ungulates, carnivores, and rodents in Colorado were tested for neutralizing (N) antibody against vesicular stomatitis, New Jersey serotype (VSNJ), virus to determine their involvement in the 1982 Colorado VSNJ epizootic in domestic animals. Viremic and N antibody responses of two local rodent species to a 1982 Colorado isolate of VSNJ were determined in the laboratory. The rodents produced only weak viremias, but all developed N antibody. N antibody prevalences for VSNJ in sera from wild ungulates was sufficiently high to indicate their involvement during the epizootic. In addition, the demonstration of N antibody in elk (Cervus elaphus) and mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) prior to the epizootic in cattle and horses suggests that an enzootic cycle may exist in Colorado.
Localized onchocerciasis vector control in the Bahr el Ghazal Region of South-Western Sudan. I. Precontrol.	Over a two year period, onchocerciasis vector biting and transmission rates were recorded from 11 sites within a 40 km radius of Wau, in the Bahr El Ghazal Region of South-Western Sudan. These data provide the baseline on which the efficacy of localized vector control in the third year of the study, has been assessed (Baker and Abdelnur 1986). During 1018 collection days, 59,660 Simulium damnosum s.l. vectors were attracted to man, 41,548 of which were dissected. 2.8% of the dissected flies were infective with head L3 Onchocerca with a mean of 2.4 head L3s per fly and a maximum of 19. Larval collections revealed that only Simulium sirbanum and S. damnosum s.str. were breeding in the study area. The results were analyzed to show the hourly, seasonal and annual patterns of biting and transmission. These patterns were found to be remarkably similar in both years even though vector biting and transmission was 24-28% lower in the second year. The sites could be divided into two groups. Those with Annual Transmission Potentials (ATPs) over 1000 lay beside fast flowing, well wooded stretches of river and those with ATPs below 500 lay near rivers flowing slowly in a wide grassy plain. Blinding onchocerciasis had been recorded only from the first group.
Criteria for the selection of larvicides by the Onchocerciasis Control Programme in west Africa.	One of the weekly decisions the Onchocerciasis Control Programme has to make, in its operations in 11 west African countries, is the selection of one insecticide out of the six used that is most appropriate to the river stretches to be treated. This decision depends on several criteria, linked not only to the compounds themselves but also the hydrological conditions and blackfly populations involved. Given the great number of breeding sites (gites) to be treated, in 23,000 km of rivers at the height of the rainy season, this paper identifies the parameters needed to facilitate the choice of insecticide and to optimize the larviciding in terms of cost effectiveness, management of resistance and minimizing the environmental impact.
National entomological teams of the western extension zone of the Onchocerciasis Control Program (OCP) in west Africa from 1986 to 1990]	The western extension area of the Onchocerciasis Control Programme in West Africa (OCP) covers five countries: Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mali (western part), Senegal and Sierra Leone. From 1986 to 1990, national teams employed by the respective governments have been regularly collecting entomological data on the vectors of onchocerciasis in these countries. As in the initial programme area of the OCP, the entomological surveillance network was composed of entomological sectors and subsectors (the latter are called "operational bases" in the western extension). In 1990, 308 staff in 47 capture teams were employed for the entomological surveillance activities in seven sectors and twenty-five operational bases. They included a national coordinator as head of the teams for each country, a wide range of technicians, and administrative support staff to assist the national coordinator in the overall management of available resources. The national teams worked under the technical responsibility and supervision of WHO/OCP but with no employee/employer relationship between them and WHO, since they were employed and their salaries were paid by their governments. The OCP, however, paid additional lump sum allowances to each worker, as well as daily subsistence allowances when away from their duty station. Vehicles, entomological equipment, office supplies and furniture, fuel and lubricants were provided by WHO/OCP. Despite the difficulties encountered in the field, which were often great, and their lower salaries (compared with colleagues paid by WHO/OCP), the technical workers in the national teams performed well by OCP standards, with results as satisfactory as those obtained by the WHO/OCP teams in the rest of the programme area. The main reasons for the efficiency and dynamism of the national entomological teams are described. The future of these teams after OCP has ceased its activities is also discussed.
