Autophagic clearance of Sin Nombre hantavirus glycoprotein Gn promotes virus replication in cells.	Hantavirus glycoprotein precursor (GPC) is posttranslationally cleaved into two glycoproteins, Gn and Gc. Cells transfected with plasmids expressing either GPC or both Gn and Gc revealed that Gn is posttranslationally degraded. Treatment of cells with the autophagy inhibitors 3-methyladenine, LY-294002, or Wortmanin rescued Gn degradation, suggesting that Gn is degraded by the host autophagy machinery. Confocal microscopic imaging showed that Gn is targeted to autophagosomes for degradation by an unknown mechanism. Examination of autophagy markers LC3-I and LC3-II demonstrated that both Gn expression and Sin Nombre hantavirus (SNV) infection induce autophagy in cells. To delineate whether induction of autophagy and clearance of Gn play a role in the virus replication cycle, we downregulated autophagy genes BCLN-1 and ATG7 using small interfering RNA (siRNA) and monitored virus replication over time. These studies revealed that inhibition of host autophagy machinery inhibits Sin Nombre virus replication in cells, suggesting that autophagic clearance of Gn is required for efficient virus replication. Our studies provide mechanistic insights into viral pathogenesis and reveal that SNV exploits the host autophagy machinery to decrease the intrinsic steady-state levels of an important viral component for efficient replication in host cells.
The role of age structure in the persistence of a chronic pathogen in a fluctuating population.	Small mammal populations exhibit large fluctuations, potentially leading to local extinction of specialist pathogens after bottlenecks. Pathogen persistence in recovering populations depends on the epidemiological characteristics of the hosts that survive the bottlenecks. Sin Nombre virus is a largely asymptomatic infection of deer mice, which creates a chronic lifelong infection. Earlier work on this virus has shown that males play a key role in pathogen persistence through a combination of longer lifespan and higher seroprevalence. Other evidence indicates that mouse age could play an equally important role, as older mice may have higher survivorship and higher contact rates. We use age structured models to examine the relationships among prevalence, age-dependent demographics, and age-dependent epidemiology.
