Cholecystokinin induction of mob-1 chemokine expression in pancreatic acinar cells requires NF-kappaB activation.	Inflammatory mediators are involved in the early phase of acute pancreatitis, but the cellular mechanisms responsible for their generation within pancreatic cells are unknown. We examined the role of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) in cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8)-induced mob-1 chemokine expression in pancreatic acinar cells in vitro. Supraphysiological, but not physiological, concentrations of CCK-8 increased inhibitory kappaB (IkappaB-alpha) degradation, NF-kappaB activation, and mob-1 gene expression in isolated pancreatic acinar cells. CCK-8-induced IkappaB-alpha degradation was maximal within 1 h. Expression of mob-1 was maximal within 2 h. Neither bombesin nor carbachol significantly increased mob-1 mRNA or induced IkappaB-alpha degradation. Thus the concentration, time, and secretagogue dependence of mob-1 gene expression and IkappaB-alpha degradation were similar. Inhibition of NF-kappaB with pharmacological agents or by adenovirus-mediated expression of the inhibitory protein IkappaB-alpha also inhibited mob-1 gene expression. These data indicate that the NF-kappaB signaling pathway is required for CCK-8-mediated induction of mob-1 chemokine expression in pancreatic acinar cells. This supports the hypothesis that NF-kappaB signaling is of central importance in the initiation of acute pancreatitis.
Endogenous neurotensin facilitates enterohepatic bile acid circulation by enhancing intestinal uptake in rats.	Initial studies on the digestive hormone neurotensin (NT) showing that intestinal NT mRNA expression and blood levels were altered in rats fed chow containing bile acid (BA) and the BA chelator cholestyramine led us to investigate the role of NT in the enterohepatic circulation of BA. In fasted, anesthetized rats with common bile ducts cannulated for bile collection, intravenous NT infusion (10 pmol. kg(-1). min(-1)) enhanced BA output relative to control over 3 h in animals administered donor bile into the duodenum (30 microl/min). This suggested that the effect of NT was on the return of BA from the intestine to the liver, which is rate determining in the normal process. In rats prepared as described above and administered [(3)H]taurocholate ([(3)H]TC; 5 mM, 1 ml) duodenally, NT infusion (3-10 pmol x kg(-1) x min(-1)) increased the [(3)H]TC recovery rate in bile approximately twofold, whereas sulfated CCK-8 (12-50 pmol x kg(-1) x min(-1)) had no effect. To investigate the roles of endogenous NT and CCK, we administered [(3)H]TC into the rat duodenum or lower jejunum and tested the effect of the NT antagonist SR-48692 (2 nmol x kg(-1) x min(-1)) or CCK-A antagonist lorglumide (100 nmol x kg(-1) x min(-1)). SR-48692 reduced the [(3)H]TC recovery rate by congruent with 50% and congruent with 24% in the duodenum and jejunum, respectively, whereas lorglumide had no effect. These results suggest that NT or a similar peptide is an endogenous regulator of enterohepatic BA cycling, which acts by enhancing BA uptake in the intestine.
Cholecystokinin fails to promote pancreatic regeneration in diabetic rats following the induction of experimental pancreatitis.	The aim of the present study was to investigate the spontaneous and cholecystokinin-octapeptide (CCK-8)-promoted laboratory changes and morphological alterations in rats with arginine (Arg)-induced pancreatitis in which diabetes had been induced with streptozotocin (STZ). Male Wistar rats were used in our experiments. Pancreatitis was induced by arginine, diabetes by STZ and regeneration was promoted by CCK-8. The serum amylase, glucose and insulin levels, the pancreatic contents of protein, DNA, amylase, trypsinogen and lipase, the pancreatic weight/body- weight ratio (pw/bw) and the plasma glucagon level were examined 1, 3, 7, 14 and 28 days after pancreatitis induction. Pancreatic tissue samples were examined by light microscopy and immunostaining on paraffin-embedded sections. The insulin and glucagon-containing cells were visualized by using monoclonal antibodies. The administration of low doses of CCK-8 accelerated the processes of regeneration following Arg-induced pancreatitis, but in rats that were also diabetic, pancreatic regeneration was not observed. The administration of low doses of CCK-8 seems to reduce the pancreatic beta -cell number and function in diabetic rats. The pancreatic endocrine function was further deteriorated by simultaneous Arg-induced pancreatitis. The diabetic state appeared to shift the normal pancreatic enzyme content (decreased amylase and increased trypsinogen) in this study.
Modulation of meal pattern in the rat by the anorexic lipid mediator oleoylethanolamide.	Oleoylethanolamide (OEA) is a structural analog of the endogenous cannabinoid anandamide, which does not activate cannabinoid receptors. The biosynthesis of OEA in rat small intestine is increased by feeding and reduced by fasting. Moreover, OEA decreases food intake in food-deprived rats via a mechanism that requires intact sensory fibers (Rodríguez de Fonseca, 2001). These results suggest that OEA may contribute to the peripheral regulation of feeding. In the present study, we have investigated the effects of systemic OEA administration (1-20 mg/kg, intraperitoneal) on meal pattern in free-feeding and food-deprived rats. In free-feeding animals, OEA delayed feeding onset in a dose-dependent manner, but had no effect on meal size or postmeal interval. In food-deprived animals, OEA both delayed feeding onset and reduced meal size. The selective effects of OEA in free-feeding rats are strikingly different from those of the serotonergic anorexiant d-fenfluramine (which delayed feeding and reduced meal size) and the intestinal peptide cholecystokinin (which reduced meal size). These results suggest that OEA may participate in the regulation of satiety and may provide a chemical scaffold for the design of novel appetite-suppressing medications.
Effects of peripheral CCK receptor blockade on food intake in rats.	Type A cholecystokinin receptor (CCKAR) antagonists differing in blood-brain barrier permeability were used to test the hypothesis that satiety is mediated, in part, by CCK action at CCKARs located peripheral to the blood-brain barrier. At dark onset, non-food-deprived rats received a bolus injection of devazepide (2.5 micromol/kg iv), a 3-h infusion of A-70104 (1 or 3 micromol x kg-1 x h-1 iv), or vehicle either alone or coadministered with a 3-h infusion of CCK-8 (10 nmol x kg-1 x h-1 iv) or a 2-h intragastric infusion of peptone (1 g/h). Food intake was determined from continuous computer recordings of changes in food bowl weight. Devazepide penetrates the blood-brain barrier; A-70104, the dicyclohexylammonium salt of Nalpha-3-quinolinoyl-d-Glu-N,N-dipentylamide (A-65186), does not. CCK-8 inhibited 3-h food intake by more than 50% and both A-70104 and devazepide abolished this response. A-70104 and devazepide stimulated food intake and similarly attenuated the anorexic response to intragastric infusion of peptone. Thus endogenous CCK appears to act, in part, at CCKARs peripheral to the blood-brain barrier to inhibit food intake.
Identification of somatostatin-14 and -28 in rat pancreatic juice by a new HPLC method.	Recently we could demonstrate that in rats with pancreatic hypertrophy, somatostatin is secreted in higher concentrations into the pancreatic juice than into the portal vein blood. For measurement of juice somatostatin and to characterize the molecular forms, we established a new reverse-phase HPLC method, which we describe herein. This HPLC method, using a linear gradient system consisting of 0.2% heptafluorbutyric acid in 10 mM sodium acetate and acetonitrile, showed a stable recovery rate of about 85%. Applying the pure juice to this gradient system, we detect somatostatin-14 to be the major form of immunoreactive somatostatin (IRSS) in the pancreatic juice of the rat (5% of total IRSS). The remaining 35% were found to be somatostatin-28. The role of somatostatin in pancreatic juice is not known. It raises the hypothesis that it possibly interacts with the influences intraluminal intestinal growth factors. This study supports the assumption for the existence of an insuloacinar portal system to regulate exocrine pancreatic functions by islet hormones.
The source of calcium for CCK-induced contraction of the guinea-pig gall bladder.	The sources of calcium for cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-OP)-induced gallbladder smooth muscle contraction are considered both extracellular and intracellular, but the relative need for intracellular calcium especially at low, physiological concentrations is not clear. To better define the calcium sources responsible for guinea-pig gallbladder contractions in vitro, we inhibited calcium influx using the calcium channel blocker, methoxyverapamil, and a calcium-free Krebs' solution. Availability and release of intracellular calcium stores were depleted by strontium substitution and ryanodine. CCK-OP was compared to bethanechol and potassium chloride (KCl). Preventing calcium influx with 10(-5) M methoxyverapamil depressed the responses to CCK-OP, bethanechol and KCl. Methoxyverapamil, however, had little effect on the time-dependent generation of tension to CCK-OP, but significantly reduced the response to bethanechol and KCl, each at ED50. The duration of the contractile response in the calcium-free Krebs' solution to CCK-OP was longer than that for bethanechol. Strontium (2.5 mM) significantly attenuated the response to CCK-OP and bethanechol, but not to KCl. Ryanodine significantly reduced contractions induced by CCK-OP but not for bethanechol, both at low dose ED25. These results indicate that contraction of the guinea-pig gallbladder induced by CCK-OP, bethanechol and KCl requires extracellular calcium influx. Further, the initiation and maintenance of contraction by CCK-OP and bethanechol necessitates calcium mobilisation from intracellular stores. CCK-OP may have a greater penchant for these calcium stores, particularly at physiological doses.
CCK-receptor antagonists attenuate suppression of sham feeding by intestinal nutrients.	To test the possibility that endogenous cholecystokinin (CCK) participates in suppression of sham feeding by intraintestinal nutrient infusions, we examined the effect of CCK-receptor antagonists on the suppression of sham feeding by intraintestinally infused oleic acid, maltose or L-phenylalanine (L-Phe). In addition, we monitored amylase activity in the intestinal lumen during some sham feeding experiments and measured plasma CCK in parallel experiments using intestinally infused animals that were not feeding. Suppression of sham feeding by oleic acid or maltose was attenuated by CCK-receptor antagonists, while suppression of sham feeding by L-Phe was not. Oleate infusion increased plasma CCK concentration and luminal amylase activity. Oleate-induced increase in luminal amylase activity was attenuated by a CCK-receptor antagonist. Intraintestinal maltose or L-Phe did not increase plasma CCK concentration or luminal amylase activity, suggesting that they did not release endocrine CCK. These results suggest 1) that endogenous CCK mediates suppression of sham feeding by oleate and maltose but not by L-Phe and 2) that CCK participating in suppression of feeding by intestinal stimuli might not be of endocrine origin.
Inhibition by mepacrine and amylase secretion from intact and permeabilized rat pancreatic acini.	In intact rat pancreatic acini, the phospholipase A2 inhibitor mepacrine did not affect basal amylase release but dose-dependently inhibited the carbachol (IC50 65 microM) and CCK-8 (IC50 210 microM)-stimulated amylase release. In permeabilized acini, mepacrine shifted the dose-response curve for calcium to the right by a factor 2 and inhibited the release of amylase stimulated by GTPrS. From these results we conclude that carbachol, CCK-8 and GTPrS probably activate a phospholipase A2 closely coupled to exocytosis.
Comparative effects of galanin on isolated smooth muscle cells from ileum in five mammalian species.	Effect of galanin and CCK8 were studied on isolated smooth muscle cells obtained from pig, guinea-pig, rat, rabbit and dog ileum circular muscle layer. Galanin as well as CCK8 induced a concentration-dependent contraction of pig, rat, rabbit and guinea-pig ileum smooth muscle cells. Maximal contraction ranged between 23.7 +/- 1.9% and 26.1 +/- 3.1% decrease in cell length from control in the presence of both peptides. This maximal contraction was obtained at 1 nM galanin in pig, rat, rabbit, 1 nM CCK8 in rat, rabbit, guinea-pig, at 10 nM galanin in guinea-pig and 10 nM CCK8 in pig. Concentrations of galanin inducing a half maximal contraction (EC50) ranged between 8 pM and 80 pM in these species. In dog, CCK8 induced a concentration-dependent contraction of ileum smooth muscle cells, with a maximal contraction (24.5 +/- 2.3%) at 1nM and an EC50 of 50 pM while galanin inhibited cell contraction induced by CCK8. The CCK-induced contraction was abolished at 10 nM galanin and 10 nM VIP. Concentrations of galanin and VIP inducing a half-maximal relaxation of contracted cells were 2 pM and 3 pM respectively. It is concluded that galanin may induce cell contraction of pig, guinea-pig, rat and rabbit ileum circular muscle layer and cell relaxation of dog ileum by a direct myogenic effect.
Dose-related involvement of CCK in bombesin-induced pancreatic growth.	We examined the role of CCK in bombesin-induced pancreatic growth in rats using the CCK receptor antagonist L-364,718. Rats (155 +/- 1 g, 8-10 per group) received subcutaneous injections every 8 h for 5 days with bombesin (0.6, 1.7 and 5 nmol/kg) or bombesin in combination with L-364,718 (1 mg/kg). After 5 days the pancreas was removed and pancreatic weight, protein content, DNA, amylase and chymotrypsin contents were determined. Bombesin produced a significant increase (48-475%) of pancreatic weight, tissue contents of protein, DNA, amylase and chymotrypsinogen (F = 82, P less than 0.001). When a large dose of bombesin (5 nmol/kg) was combined with L-364,718 a significant inhibition (up to 70%) of all tissue parameters was observed (P less than 0.001). L-364,718 did not affect the growth response to a small dose of bombesin (0.6 nmol/kg). Plasma CCK levels 15 min after a single injection of bombesin (0.6, 1.7 and 5 nmol/kg) were significantly increased in response to the 5 nmol/kg dose (2.0 +/- 0.7 to 3.4 +/- 0.8 pM, F = 6.9, P less than 0.01). No increases of CCK plasma levels were found in response to the 0.6 and 1.7 nmol/kg doses of bombesin, corresponding to the lack of effects of L-364,718 on growth parameters at these doses. Measuring the time-course of CCK plasma levels after a single injection of 5 nmol/kg bombesin revealed an increase from basal values of 1.4 +/- 0.3 pM to maximal levels of 3.5 +/- 0.5 pM after 15 min (F = 7.1, P less than 0.001). Values returned to basal after 60 min. These results suggest that low doses of bombesin act directly at the acinar cell or through release of non-CCK growth factors whereas high doses of bombesin act in part through CCK release.
Secretagogue-evoked time-course changes on pancreatic juice secretion in the anaesthetized rat.	1. In the present time-course study, we have examined the interactions between the phorbol ester, 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) and the synthetic gut hormones, cholecystokinin-octapeptide (CCK-8) and secretin on pancreatic juice secretion in anaesthetized rat. 2. Administration of either TPA (10(-8) mol kg-1 hr-1), secretin (100 pmol kg-1 hr-1) or CCK-8 (150 pmol kg-1 hr-1) in the anaesthetized rat resulted in marked time-course increases in pancreatic juice flow, amylase secretion and total protein output compared to saline controls. The effect of secretin on juice flow was more pronounced and sustained compared to the smaller responses obtained with either CCK-8 or TPA. Similarly, CCK-8 evoked increases in protein output and amylase secretion compared to the responses obtained with either secretin or TPA. 3. Simultaneous infusion of TPA with either CCK-8 or secretin resulted in a marked reduction in pancreatic juice flow, total protein output and amylase secretion compared to the responses obtained with either CCK-8 or secretin alone. 4. Administration of polymyxin B (10(-8) mol kg-1 hr-1), a protein kinase C inhibitor with either TPA and CCK-8 or TPA and secretin caused a partial reduction of the inhibitory effect of TPA on CCK-8 and secretin-evoked secretory responses. 5. The present study further implicates the involvement of protein kinase C in the modulation of CCK-8 and secretin-induced pancreatic juice secretion in the anaesthetized rat.
NMDA receptor blockade attenuates CCK-induced reduction of real feeding but not sham feeding.	Systemic injection of MK-801, a noncompetitive antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor ion channels, increases meal size and delays satiation. We examined whether MK-801 increases food intake by directly interfering with actions of cholecystokinin (CCK). Prior administration of MK-801 (100 microg/kg ip) reversed the inhibitory effects of CCK-8 (2 and 4 microg/kg ip) on real feeding of both liquid and solid foods. MK-801 alone did not alter 30-min sham intake of 15% sucrose compared with intake after saline. Furthermore, while CCK-8 (2 or 4 microg/kg ip) reduced sham intake, this reduction was not attenuated by MK-801 pretreatment. To ascertain whether MK-801 attenuation of CCK-induced reduction of real feeding was associated with attenuated inhibition of gastric emptying, we tested the effect of MK-801 pretreatment on CCK-induced inhibition of gastric emptying of 5-ml saline loads. Ten-minute gastric emptying was accelerated after MK-801 (3.9 +/- 0.2 ml) compared with saline vehicle (2.72 +/- 0.2 ml). CCK-8 (0.5 microg/kg ip) reduced 10-min emptying to 1.36 +/- 0.3 ml. Pretreatment with MK-801 did not significantly attenuate CCK-8-induced reduction of gastric emptying (0.9 +/- 0.4 ml). This series of experiments demonstrates that blockade of NMDA ion channels reverses inhibition of real feeding by CCK. However, neither inhibition of sham feeding nor inhibition of gastric emptying by CCK is attenuated by MK-801. Therefore, increased food intake after NMDA receptor blockade is not caused by a direct interference with CCK-induced satiation. Rather, increased real feeding, either in the presence or absence of CCK, depends on blockade of NMDA receptor participation in other post-oral feedback signals such as gastric sensation or gastric tone.
Ethanol modifies the actin cytoskeleton in rat pancreatic acinar cells--comparison with effects of CCK.	One of the early events leading to alcoholic pancreatitis seems to be the effect of ethanol on stimulus-secretion coupling. This study examines ethanol-induced modifications of filamentous actin (F-actin) content and localization in acini, the resulting alpha-amylase secretion and the role of protein kinase C (PKC) activity in these processes.
Change in CCK-8 response after diet-induced obesity and MC3/4-receptor blockade.	Little is known regarding satiety effects of systemically administered cholecystokinin (CCK-8) in propensity or resistance to dietary-induced obesity (DIO), and of its effect under conditions of melanocortin-3/4R blockade. We found that CCK-8 exerted greater satiety effects in DIO-prone but not DIO-resistant rats, and this occurred only when the rats were placed on a high-fat (HF) diet, when DIO-prone rats failed to compensate for the greater energy density of the diet. CCK-8 also suppressed intake stimulated by melanocortin-3/4R antagonist, SHU9119, but only after 24h of increased feeding. This suggests that under both of these conditions, responsiveness to CCK's satiety effect is not so much affected by a HF diet or significant increases in body weight per se, but by a failure to rapidly limit food intake to that needed only for metabolic need. Identification of an early feeding mediator that is most strongly activated by a HF diet or by an acute challenge to energy homeostasis should provide an ideal anti-obesity target adjunct to CCK-8.
Suppression of food intake by GI fatty acid infusions: roles of celiac vagal afferents and cholecystokinin.	We have found that jejunal infusions of long-chain fatty acids, linoleic acid (LA) and oleic acid (OA), and gastric infusions of a fatty acid ethyl ester, ethyl oleate (EO), produce long-lasting suppression of total caloric intake. This effect is not seen in response to jejunal infusions of medium-chain fatty acids or medium- or long-chain triglycerides. Multiunit recordings have shown that intestinal infusions of LA or OA strongly activate celiac vagal afferents. Truncal vagotomy (TVX) and selective celiac-branch vagotomy (CVX) are equally effective in attenuating, but not eliminating, suppression of food intake by LA and EO. These outcomes suggest that intraintestinal fatty acids reduce intake by activation of vagal mechanisms, critically involving afferent fibers within the celiac branches, as well as unidentified nonvagal mechanisms. The role of cholecystokinin (CCK) in mediating the activation of celiac vagal afferents is suggested by studies showing that (1) inhibition of food intake by CCK-8 administration is attenuated after CVX but robust after celiac-spared vagotomy (CSV), (2) multiunit activity of celiac vagal afferents is increased by CCK-8 administration, and (3) activation of celiac fibers by intestinal LA infusion is severely attenuated by the CCK(A) antagonist lorglumide.
Interaction of TRH and CCK in the satiation of alcohol intake.	Thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) and cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK) are endogenous neuropeptides known to inhibit intake of alcohol. Although both peptides are released by alcohol consumption and are hypothesized to satiate alcohol intake, their interaction has not been examined. We deprived ad-lib-fed male (n=6) and female (n=4) Wistar rats of water for 23 h and then gave them 30 min access to 5% w/v ethanol, followed by 30 min access to water. After adaptation to this schedule, rats were randomly assigned to receive intraperitoneal injections of either saline+saline, CCK (4 microg/kg)+saline, saline+TRH (10 mg/kg) or CCK+TRH immediately before alcohol access. Analyses of variance revealed a significant (P<.05) effect of CCK, and a significant interaction of CCK and TRH in control of ethanol consumption. CCK reliably reduced alcohol intake, and TRH blocked this satiation effect of CCK, increasing intake by 88.8% and 34.6% in males and females, respectively. TRH increased water intake in females, and CCK blocked this effect of TRH. Results indicate an infra-dose-additive interaction of CCK and TRH in satiation of alcohol intake, which may reflect a natural, endogenous neuropeptide interaction in the regulation of caloric intake.
Studying ingestive behavior with Gerry Smith.	During the approximately 15 years that Gerry and I collaborated on studying the ingestive behavior of the rat, we showed (1) using a microstructural analysis of the licking behavior of that animal, that the volume ingested during 30-min intake tests was controlled by an interaction between oropharyngeal and postingestional stimulation; (2) that the inhibiting effect of dopamine blockade on intake acts through sensory rather than motor systems; (3) that CCK-8 acts on licking behavior the same way that gastric filling does. We also discovered (4) that learning altered the effectiveness of oropharyngeal stimulation to control the intake of concentrated carbohydrate and sodium chloride solutions; and (5) that the stomach is remarkably insensitive to the volume of its contents.
Effect of cholecystokinin on experimental neuronal aging.	To observe the effect of cholecystokinin (CCK) on lipofusin value, neuronal dendrite and spine ultrastructure, and total cellular protein during the process of experimental neuronal aging.
Effect of CCK-8 on insulin-induced hyperphagia and hypothalamic orexigenic neuropeptide expression in the rat.	The influence of cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) on normal and insulin-induced feeding and expression of orexigenic hypothalamic neuropeptides was investigated in male rats. CCK-8, administered during meals (4 microg/kg) or continuously (32 microg/kg over 60 min), blunted the stimulating effect of insulin (50 IU/kg) on feeding by reducing meal size (-60%; P<0.05 or -86%; P<0.0001, respectively). Rats without access to food and injected with IP insulin (50 IU/kg) showed increased hypothalamic mRNA levels of orexin (+30%; P<0.05) and melanin-concentrating hormone (+52%; P<0.05), as compared with ad libitum-fed and saline-injected control rats. Continuous IP infusion of CCK-8 (32 microg/kg) blunted these increases. Our results suggest that both orexin and melanin-concentrating hormone participate in the response to insulin hypoglycemia without food being present; these neurons may be involved in mechanisms related to insulin-induced hyperphagia. Signals triggered by peripheral CCK-8 act to decrease the expression of orexin and melanin-concentrating hormone. This may be associated with a reduction in hyperphagia.
Effects of CCK-8 on the cytoplasmic free calcium concentration in isolated rat islet cells.	The C-terminal octapeptide of cholecystokinin (CCK-8) is known to stimulate insulin secretion. We examined its effects on the cytoplasmic free calcium concentration ([Ca2+]IC) in isolated rat pancreatic islet cells. At 8.3 mM glucose and 1.28 mM Ca2+, CCK-8 (100 nM) rapidly increased [Ca2+]IC to a short-lived peak, whereafter the [Ca2+]IC, within 1.5 minutes, fell to values below baseline. CCK-8 also rapidly increased the [Ca2+]IC at 3.3 mM glucose and in a calcium deficient medium. However, either at low glucose or in the absence of extracellular Ca2+, the post-peak [Ca2+]IC did not fall below baseline levels. The CCKA receptor antagonist, L-364,718 (20 nM), inhibited the effects of CCK-8 on [Ca2+]IC. The results suggest that CCK-8 in islet cells liberates calcium from intracellular stores by activating CCKA receptors.
Cellular distribution of gastric chief cell protein kinase C activity: differential effects of diacylglycerol, phorbol esters, carbachol, and cholecystokinin.	Stimulation of chief cells with carbachol or cholecystokinin (CCK) results in the production of inositol trisphosphate (IP3) and diacylglycerol (DAG). Although IP3 increases cell calcium concentration, thereby stimulating pepsinogen secretion, the role of DAG and its target, protein kinase C (PKC), is less clear. To examine the relation between the cellular distribution of PKC activity and pepsinogen secretion, we determined PKC activity in cytosolic and membrane fractions from dispersed chief cells from guinea pig stomach. To validate our assay, we studied the actions of the phorbol ester PMA. PMA caused a rapid, dose-dependent, 6-fold increase in pepsinogen secretion and membrane-associated PKC activity. Similarly, dose-response curves for pepsinogen secretion and the increase in membrane-associated PKC activity induced by a membrane-permeant DAG (1-oleoyl-2-acetylglycerol) were superimposable. In contrast, CCK (0.1 nM to 1.0 microM) and carbachol (0.1 microM to 1.0 mM) caused a 4-fold increase in pepsinogen secretion, but did not alter the distribution of PKC activity. These results indicate that in gastric chief cells, PMA- and DAG-induced pepsinogen secretion is accompanied by increased membrane-associated PKC activity. However, the cellular distribution of PKC activity is not altered by CCK or carbachol.
Intake inhibition by NPY and CCK-8: A challenge of the notion of NPY as an "Orexigen".	We tested the hypothesis that neuropeptide Y (NPY) interacts with cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) in inhibition of intake of an intraorally infused solution of sucrose, a test of consummatory ingestive behavior. Both intracerebroventricular infusion of NPY (10 microg) and intraperitoneal injection of CCK-8 (0.5 micro/kg) reduced the intake of a 1M solution of sucrose infused intraorally at a rate of 0.5 ml/min in ovariectomized female rats, but the two peptides did not interact in inhibiting intraoral intake. By contrast, NPY increased intake if the sucrose solution was ingested from a bottle, a test demanding both appetitive and consummatory ingestive responses. CCK-8 inhibited intake in this test and its inhibitory effect was increased by simultaneous treatment with NPY. The activity in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), a brainstem relay mediating inhibition of intake, judged by the expression of c-fos-like immunoreactivity, was significantly increased after treatment with CCK-8 or NPY to approximately the same extent. Combined treatment with NPY and CCK-8 did not increase the c-fos-like immunoreactivity in the NTS above treatment with NPY or CCK-8 alone. These results strengthen the hypothesis that NPY, like CCK-8, is an inhibitor of consummatory ingestive behavior and suggest that this inhibition is mediated via the NTS.
Actions of phorbol esters on levels of cAMP in cholera toxin-treated chief cells from guinea pig stomach.	Agents like carbachol and cholecystokinin (CCK), that activate chief cell phosphoinositidase C, thereby increasing cell calcium concentration, increase cAMP levels in cholera toxin-treated, but not control, gastric chief cells. In the present study, we found that phorbol esters, like PMA, that activate protein kinase C, also cause augmentation of chief cell cAMP levels. The maximal effect with PMA (100 nM) was about 50% of the maximal response with CCK (10 nM) or carbachol (100 microM). Because protein kinase C is a calcium-dependent enzyme, we examined the effect of modulating cell calcium levels with the ionophore A23187. The ionophore alone caused a dose-dependent augmentation of cAMP levels. Adding 100 nM PMA caused an additive response, such that a maximal cAMP response, equal to that seen with 100 microM carbachol, was observed with 30 nM A23187. Carbachol-, A23187-, and PMA-induced augmentation of cAMP levels was progressively reduced by increasing concentrations of calmidazolium, a calmodulin inhibitor. Combination of phorbol esters that activate protein kinase C with ionophores that increase cell calcium mimics the actions of CCK and carbachol on cAMP levels in cholera toxin-treated chief cells.
Interplay between nitric oxide and VIP in CCK-8-induced phasic contractile activity in the rabbit sphincter of Oddi.	The sphincter of Oddi (SO) plays an important role in delivery of bile into the duodenum. To establish whether vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) and nitric oxide (NO) were involved in phasic contractile activity of the rabbit SO stimulated by cholecystokinin-octapeptide (CCK-8).
Cholecystokinin inhibits DNA alkylation induced by N-nitrosobis (2-oxopropyl)amine (BOP) in hamster pancreas.	Cholecystokinin (CCK) inhibits pancreatic cancer but not hepatic tumor induction by N-nitrosobis (2-oxopropyl) amine (BOP) in hamsters when administered with or shortly before BOP. In this study, we evaluated the capability of sulfated CCK-8 to inhibit DNA alkylation in the hamster pancreas. We examined the pattern of O6-methylguanine (G6-Me) and N7-methylguanine (G7-Me) in pancreatic ductal, acinar and liver tissues from Syrian hamsters treated with a single dose of BOP (20 mg/kg s.c.) and with five s.c. injections of CCK-8 (200 pM/kg, 30 min apart). The first CCK injection was given either 90 min before, or together, or 3 h after POP administration. The amount of G6-Me in liver DNA did not differ significantly. We observed a decrease of G7-Me in the liver of the group treated with CCK together with POP as compared to POP alone (P less than 0.005). Lower amounts of G6-Me were found in ductal preparations (P less than 0.01) of the animals treated with CCK before POP as compared to POP alone. CCK also modified the pattern of alkylation in the acinar tissue, but without a clear relationship with the timing of administration. The results suggest that the inhibitory effect of CCK-8 on pancreatic carcinogenicity of BOP could be related to its capability to modify DNA alkylation by yet unknown mechanisms.
Effects of cholecystokinin octapeptide on genetically determined seizure susceptibility.	Utilizing audiogenic seizure-prone P77PMC rats, the effects of cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) on genetic seizure susceptibility were studied in vivo, in cerebral cortical synaptosomes, and in cortical neuronal cell cultures. The results showed that CCK-8 could decrease seizure susceptibility, and that the K(+)-stimulated release of GABA in cerebral cortex synaptosomes from seizure-prone animals was depressed. The presence of exogenous CCK-8 (10(-7) M) together with elevated K+ (25 mM) causes a higher increased magnitude in GABA release from synaptosomes (enhanced by 100%) and cell cultures (17 days in vitro, increased by 177%) derived from seizure-prone rats than the controls (increased by 42%, in synaptosomes; and 107% in cell cultures). These preliminary results raise the possibility that the developmental abnormalities in modulation effect of CCK-8 on GABA release in central nervous system may play a role causing greater seizure susceptibility in genetic seizure-prone rats. The analysis of the brain tissue level and gene-expression of CCK-8 will be the important step of further investigation.
Dissociation of CCK-8-induced fluid secretion from protein secretion by ion-transport blockers in rat pancreas.	The effects of ion-transport blockers on CCK-8-induced protein output and concomitant fluid secretion were compared in isolated, perfused normal and hypertrophied rat pancreata. In the normal pancreas, perfusion with ouabain (1 mM), amiloride (1 mM), furosemide (1 mM), or SITS (0.1 mM) caused corresponding inhibition of both fluid and protein secretion that was induced by 100 pM CCK-8. Hypertrophy of the pancreas was produced by oral administration of a synthetic protease inhibitor (FOY-305) once a day for 3 wk. In the hypertrophied pancreas, perfusion with ouabain (0.1 or 1 mM) or amiloride (0.1 mM or 1 mM) decreased CCK-8-induced fluid secretion without changing CCK-8-induced protein output. Perfusion with furosemide (1 mM) inhibited both fluid and protein secretion induced by CCK-8, but the amount of inhibition of fluid secretion was much greater than that of protein secretion. Perfusion with SITS (0.1 mM) significantly decreased CCK-8-induced fluid secretion but not protein secretion. These results indicate that in contrast to a normal rat pancreas, the coupling of fluid and protein secretion induced by CCK-8 can be disrupted by experimental procedures that induce hypertrophy in the rat pancreas.
Acetylcholine regulates pancreastatin secretion from the human pancreastatin-producing cell line (QGP-1N).	Studies were made of pancreastatin (PST) secretion from a human PST-producing cell line (QGP-1N) in response to various secretagogues. Cells with immunoreactivity for PST were observed in monolayer cultures of QGP-1N cells. Carbachol stimulated PST secretion and the intracellular Ca2+ mobilization concentration dependently in the range of 10(-6)-10(-4) M. The PST secretion and Ca2+ mobilization induced by carbachol were inhibited by atropine. The calcium ionophore (A23187) stimulated PST secretion. However, cholecystokinin and gastrin-releasing peptide did not stimulate either PST secretion or Ca2+ mobilization. Secretin also did not stimulate PST secretion. The glucose concentration in the culture medium had no effect on PST secretion. These results suggest that PST secretion is mainly regulated by acetylcholine through a muscarinic receptor, and that an increase in intracellular Ca2+ plays an important role in stimulus-secretion coupling in QGP-1N cells.
Cholecystokinin-like immunoreactive retinal ganglion cells project to the ventral lateral geniculate nucleus in pigeons.	A subpopulation of retinal ganglion cells projecting to the pigeon ventral lateral geniculate nucleus was shown to contain cholecystokinin-like immunoreactivity. These ganglion cells were mainly distributed in the peripheral retina, and their somata sizes were medium to large (14-23 microns). Taken together with previous findings, these results indicate that the retinal input to the ventral geniculate is chemically heterogeneous.
Effects of atropine on pancreatic response to bethanechol, cholecystokinin, and food intake in rats.	Atropine was used to examine the role of cholinergic mechanisms in the pancreatic secretory response to food intake. Unanesthetized rats with gastric, jugular vein, bile-pancreatic, and duodenal cannulas were used; bile-pancreatic juice was recirculated. The maximal response to bethanechol (4 mg.kg-1.h-1) was similar to cholecystokinin (CCK)-8-induced maximal secretion. Atropine (25-200 micrograms.kg-1.h-1) markedly inhibited basal amylase output and caused dose-related inhibition of the incremental response to a maximal dose of bethanechol. Atropine (50 micrograms.kg-1.h-1) shifted the dose-response curve to bethanechol (1-32 mg.kg-1.h-1) to the right but did not alter maximal amylase output. L 364718 (0.5 mg/kg), a CCK receptor antagonist, had no effect on bethanechol-stimulated pancreatic secretion. Atropine (50 micrograms.kg-1.h-1) did not affect the incremental responses to low doses of CCK-8; the maximal response occurred at a higher CCK-8 dose because atropine decreased basal secretion. Atropine (50 or 200 micrograms.kg-1.h-1) did not decrease the amylase response to ingestion of a liquid meal. We conclude that 1) bethanechol is a full agonist for stimulation of pancreatic enzyme secretion and its effects are not mediated by CCK release; 2) atropine is a competitive antagonist of bethanechol-induced pancreatic secretion in vivo but does not directly affect responses to CCK-8; 3) cholinergic mechanisms do not mediate the pancreatic enzyme response to a liquid meal in rats.
Effects of cholecystokinin (CCK)-8, CCK-33, and gastric inhibitory polypeptide (GIP) on basal and meal-stimulated pancreatic hormone secretion in man.	Gastrointestinal hormones with insulinotropic effects, like cholecystokinin (CCK) and gastric inhibitory polypeptide (GIP) might tentatively be used in the treatment of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. We therefore examined the effects of intravenous injection of pharmacological dose levels of CCK-8 (100 and 300 pmol/kg), CCK-33 (100 pmol/kg), GIP (100 pmol/kg), and CCK-8 plus GIP (100 pmol/kg of each) on plasma levels of glucose, insulin, somatostatin, glucagon, and pancreatic polypeptide (PP) in healthy human volunteers. The peptides were given under basal conditions or in combination with a mixed meal. CCK-8, CCK-33, and GIP were all found to increase the basal plasma levels of insulin, somatostatin, and PP; the increases were observed already in samples taken at 2 min after the injection. In contrast, the plasma glucagon levels were unaffected by the peptides. CCK-8, CCK-33, and GIP (100 pmol/kg) all potentiated the meal-induced plasma responses of insulin and PP, whereas plasma levels of glucagon after the meal were not affected. Plasma somatostatin levels after the meal were increased by GIP but not affected by CCK-8 or CCK-33. CCK-8 and GIP together (100 pmol/kg for both) increased plasma levels of insulin, PP and somatostatin as much as each of the peptides given alone, both under basal conditions and after the meal intake. Plasma levels of glucagon were not affected by CCK-8 and GIP together. We conclude that in man, both CCK-8, CCK-33, and GIP moderately stimulate basal and meal related insulin release without any synergistic effects and that the peptides do not inhibit the secretion of glucagon.
CCK-8, CCK-4 and gastrin-induced contractions in guinea pig ileum: evidence for differential release of acetylcholine and substance P by CCK-A and CCK-B receptors.	The cholecystokinin (CCK) receptor involved in contraction of guinea pig ileal longitudinal muscle to cholecystokinin is poorly understood; some studies have suggested that contraction was mediated via a CCK-A receptor whereas other studies have implicated CCK-B receptors in ileal contraction to CCK. To clarify this, we compared the effects of CCK-8 sulfate, CCK-4 and gastrin in radioligand binding studies and longitudinal ileal contractility in vitro. Contraction to all three peptides was abolished by tetrodotoxin (3 x 10(-7)M), confirming the neuronal nature of the CCK receptors mediating contraction to all three peptides. Maximal CCK-8S contractions were inhibited by 80% in the presence of atropine (10(-6)M), and entirely by the combination of atropine and a substance P receptor antagonist (3 x 10(-5)M). CCK-4 and gastrin-induced contractions were unaffected by substance P receptor blockade, but were abolished by atropine. Two selective CCK-A and CCK-B receptor antagonists, L-364,718 and L-365,260, respectively, were used to probe further the receptors involved in ileal contraction to this peptide family. Radioligand binding studies in mouse brain, rat pancreas and guinea pig stomach confirmed the selectivity of these antagonists. The CCK-A selective antagonist, L-364,718, potently inhibited ileal contractions to CCK-8S (-log KB = 9.35) with 10-fold lower affinity at receptors mediating contraction to CCK-4 (-log KB = 8.25). In contrast, the CCK-B receptor antagonist, L-365,260, did not affect contraction to CCK-8S (-log KB less than 7) but potently inhibited contraction to CCK-4 (-log KB = 9.24).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Somatostatin analog, SMS 201-995, inhibits pancreatic exocrine secretion and release of secretin and cholecystokinin in rats.	We studied the effect of a synthetic octapeptide somatostatin analog, SMS 201-995 (sandostatin), on pancreatic exocrine secretion and on plasma secretin and cholecystokinin (CCK) levels in vivo in anesthetized rats. The exocrine pancreas was stimulated by either intravenous infusion of both secretin (0.06 CU/kg/h) and cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) (0.03 micrograms/kg/h) or intraduodenal infusion of oleic acid (pH 6.5) in a dose of 0.25 mmol/h. Intravenous administration of SMS 201-995 in three different doses of 100, 200, and 400 ng/kg/h resulted in dose-related inhibition of pancreatic secretion in terms of volume, bicarbonate, and amylase stimulated by exogenous secretin and CCK. Intraduodenal oleic acid stimulated pancreatic secretion, including volume, bicarbonate, and amylase, and this was accompanied by a significant elevation in the plasma concentrations of secretin and CCK. Intravenous administration of SMS 201-995 in the three different doses described above caused dose-dependent suppression of the increase in pancreatic exocrine secretion as well as the plasma concentration of secretin and CCK induced by intraduodenal infusion of oleic acid. It is concluded that SMS 201-995 inhibits pancreatic exocrine secretion and the release of endogenous hormones, such as secretin and CCK, in rats.
Effects of phorbol ester and cholecystokinin on the intracellular distribution of protein kinase C in rabbit pancreatic acini.	Treatment of rabbit pancreatic acini with the phorbol ester, 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (TPA), resulted in a time- and dose-dependent decrease of soluble protein kinase C activity coinciding with an increase of protein kinase C activity in the particulate fraction. After 5 min, soluble protein kinase C activity had decreased to almost 10% of the corresponding control. Total extractable protein kinase C activity, however, remained unchanged, indicating that the decrease of soluble protein kinase C activity was not due to TPA-induced inactivation of the enzyme. The biologically inactive phorbol ester, 4 alpha-phorbol 12,13-didecanoate, did not induce such a translocation of protein kinase C. The half-maximal concentration for TPA-induced translocation of protein kinase C was 40 nM, and was equal to that for TPA-induced amylase secretion from isolated acini. This suggests that translocation of protein kinase C to the particulate fraction is an important step in TPA-induced activation of protein kinase C and enzyme secretion. On the other hand, cholecystokinin, a secretagogue of the calcium-mobilizing type, whose secretory action is thought to be mediated, at least in part, by protein kinase C, did not change the subcellular distribution of protein kinase C. In the presence of R59022 6-(2-[(4-fluorophenyl)phenylmethylene]-1-piperidinyl ) ethyl-7-methyl-5H-thiazolo[3,2-a]pyrimidin-5-one, an inhibitor of diacylglycerol kinase activity, cholecystokinin produced a small but significant translocation of protein kinase C, suggesting that the inability of the hormone to induce translocation is not due to a rapid conversion of the diacylglycerol formed into phosphatidic acid.
Developmental changes in agonist-mediated colonic smooth muscle contraction in the rabbit.	We studied smooth muscle strips from rabbit distal colon to determine age-related changes in length-tension properties and agonist-mediated contraction. Strips from newborn (1-d-old) and weanling (11-wk-old) rabbits were oriented to measure isometric tension in longitudinal muscle. Active tension comprised 47 +/- 4 and 75 +/- 5% of the total tension in the newborn and weanling, respectively. Total and active tensions in the weanling were greater than in the newborn (p less than 0.001). Although the potencies for bethanechol were similar, the maximal response was nearly 9-fold greater in weanlings (6900 +/- 292 mN/cm2) versus newborns (753 +/- 112 mN/cm2), p less than 0.001. Maximal stress increased with age for bethanechol, high extracellular potassium, substance P, neurokinin A, cholecystokinin octapeptide, bombesin, and serotonin. ED50 for bethanechol, substance P, neurokinin A, and bombesin did not change with age. Serotonin was 12 times more potent in newborns versus weanlings (p less than 0.05). In contrast, cholecystokinin octapeptide was five times less potent in newborns (18.6 nM versus 3.4 nM, respectively, p less than 0.05). Substance P-induced contractions were inhibited partially by atropine. We conclude that length-tension properties of longitudinal colonic smooth muscle differ, and responses to agonists increase with age.
Priming effect of glucagon-like peptide-1 (7-36) amide, glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide and cholecystokinin-8 at the isolated perfused rat pancreas.	The priming effect of glucagon-like peptide-1 (7-36) amide (GLP-1 (7-36) amide), glucose-dependent insulin-releasing polypeptide (GIP) and cholecystokinin-8 (CCK-8) on glucose-induced insulin secretion from rat pancreas was investigated. The isolated pancreas was perfused in vitro with Krebs-Ringer bicarbonate buffer containing 2.8 mmol/l glucose. After 10 min this medium was supplemented with GLP-1 (7-36) amide, GIP or CCK-8 (10, 100, 1000 pmol/l) for 10 min. After an additional 10 min period with 2.8 mmol/l glucose alone, insulin secretion was stimulated with buffer containing 10 mmol/l glucose for 44 min. In control experiments the typical biphasic insulin response to 10 mmol/l glucose occurred. Pretreatment of the pancreas with GIP augmented insulin secretion: 10 pmol/l GIP enhanced only the first phase of the secretory response to 10 mmol/l glucose; 100 and 1000 pmol/l GIP stimulated both phases of hormone secretion. After exposure to CCK-8, enhanced insulin release during the first (at 10 and 1000 pmol/l CCK-8) and the second phase (at 1000 pmol/l) was observed. Priming with 100 pmol/l GLP-1 (7-36) amide significantly amplified the first and 1000 pmol/l GLP-1 (7-36) amide both secretion periods, 10 pmol/l GLP-1 (7-36) amide had no significant effect. All three peptide hormones influenced the first, quickly arising secretory response more than the second phase. Priming with forskolin (30 mM) enhanced the secretory response to 10 mM glucose plus 0.5 nM GLP-1 (7-36) amide 4-fold. With a glucose-responsive B-cell line (HIT cells), we investigated the hypothesis that the priming effect of GLP-1 (7-36) amide is mediated by the adenylate cyclase system. Priming with either IBMX (0.1 mM) or forskolin (2.5 microM) enhanced the insulin release after a consecutive glucose stimulation (5 mM). This effect was pronounced when GLP-1 (7-36) amide (100 pM) was added during glucose stimulation. Priming capacities of intestinal peptide hormones may be involved in the regulation of postprandial insulin release. The incretin action of these hormones can probably, at least in part, be explained by these effects. The priming effect of GLP-1 (7-36) amide is most likely mediated by the adenylate cyclase system.
Different patterns of receptor-activated cytoplasmic Ca2+ oscillations in single pancreatic acinar cells: dependence on receptor type, agonist concentration and intracellular Ca2+ buffering.	Agonist-specific cytosolic Ca2+ oscillation patterns can be observed in individual cells and these have been explained by the co-existence of separate oscillatory mechanisms. In pancreatic acinar cells activation of muscarinic receptors typically evokes sinusoidal oscillations whereas stimulation of cholecystokinin (CCK) receptors evokes transient oscillations consisting of Ca2+ waves with long intervals between them. We have monitored changes in the cytosolic Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) by measuring Ca2(+)-activated Cl- currents in single internally perfused mouse pancreatic acinar cells. With minimal intracellular Ca2+ buffering we found that low concentrations of both ACh (50 nM) and CCK (10 pM) evoked repetitive short-lasting Ca2+ spikes of the same duration and frequency, but the probability of a spike being followed by a longer and larger Ca2+ wave was low for ACh and high for CCK. The probability that the receptor-evoked shortlasting Ca2+ spikes would initiate more substantial Ca2+ waves was dramatically increased by intracellular perfusion with solutions containing high concentrations of the mobile low affinity Ca2+ buffers citrate (10-40 mM) or ATP (10-20 mM). The different Ca2+ oscillation patterns normally induced by ACh and CCK would therefore appear not to be caused by separate mechanisms. We propose that specific receptor-controlled modulation of Ca2+ signal spreading, either by regulation of Ca2+ uptake into organelles and/or cellular Ca2+ extrusion, or by changing the sensitivity of the Ca2(+)-induced Ca2+ release mechanism, can be mimicked experimentally by different degrees of cytosolic Ca2+ buffering and can account for the various cytosolic Ca2+ spike patterns.
Dual pathways for agonist-stimulated arachidonic acid release in pancreatic acini: roles in secretion.	The present experiments were performed to determine pathways responsible for arachidonic acid release stimulated by cholecystokinin (CCK) and phorbol ester, 4 beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA), and the roles of pathways in the secretory response in dispersed acini from guinea pig pancreas. Both CCK-octapeptide (CCK-OP) and PMA increased intracellular arachidonic acid. To determine the source of released arachidonic acid, we measured the effects of PMA and CCK-OP on cellular 1,2-diacylglycerol and lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC) and of diglyceride lipase inhibitor RHC 80267 on [3H]arachidonic acid release. Both PMA and CCK-OP increased 1,2-diacylglycerol and LPC. RHC 80267 had no effect on LPC but inhibited the increase in [3H]arachidonic acid release with a concentration of CCK-OP that was maximal for enzyme secretion. The increase in [3H]arachidonic acid release with PMA or a supramaximal concentration of CCK-OP was not inhibited by RHC 80267. In parallel fashion, RHC 80267 inhibited amylase release caused by maximally effective concentrations of CCK-OP but not that caused by PMA or by supramaximally effective concentrations of CCK-OP. Arachidonic acid stimulated amylase release. Exogenous addition of phospholipase A2 caused increases in [3H]arachidonic acid release, LPC formation, and amylase release. The results indicate that there are at least two pathways responsible for the increase in free cellular arachidonic acid stimulated by pancreatic agonists. One is sequential action of phospholipase C and diglyceride lipase on phosphatidylinositol. The other is a phospholipase A action on phosphatidylcholine. The results also suggest a stimulatory role for both pathways in the secretory response.
Bioactivity of synthetic human cholecystokinin (CCK)-33 in vitro and in vivo.	The relative potencies of synthetic human cholecystokinin (h-CCK)-33, porcine CCK-33 (p-CCK-33) and CCK-8 were examined by measuring pancreatic secretion in the conscious rat (in vivo) and amylase release from rat pancreatic acini using a perifusion study (in vitro). The increments of protein output during an 1-hr infusion of 100 pmol/kg/hr of h-CCK-33, p-CCK-33 and CCK-8 were 27.0 +/- 2.9 mg/hr (M +/- SE), 19.3 +/- 2.8 and 14.0 +/- 1.8 mg/hr, respectively. H-CCK-33 and p-CCK-33 showed significantly higher responses of protein output than CCK-8 in a same molar ratio, in vivo. In vitro, the stimulation with 10(-10) M h-CCK-33, p-CCK-33 and CCK-8 led to a similar biphasic amylase release in a perifusion study. Twenty-five microM CR-1409, an antagonist for CCK receptor, completely inhibited the 10(-10) M h-CCK-33-stimulated amylase release. Although it was found that h-CCK-33 and p-CCK-33 were more potent than CCK-8 in vivo, 10(-10) M CCK-8, h-CCK-33 and p-CCK-33 were equipotent on rat pancreatic acini in vitro. It is suggested that the discrepancy in potencies of the large molecular form and small molecular form of CCK in vivo and in vitro may be attributed to the delay of degradation of the large molecular form of CCK in vivo.
Prostaglandin E2 inhibits secretagogue-induced enzyme secretion from rat pancreatic acini.	Prostaglandins of the E type may have a potential role in pancreatic physiology and pathophysiology. Because prostaglandins of the E type inhibit HCl secretion in parietal cells via a specific receptor by inhibition of adenylylcyclase, we studied whether a similar mechanism exists in the exocrine pancreas. Isolated rat pancreatic acini were incubated with various concentrations of secretagogues, such as cholecystokinin-octapeptide (CCK-8), bombesin, carbachol, and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), in the absence or presence of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), and amylase secretion was measured. For receptor binding studies, acini and pancreatic membranes were incubated with [3H]PGE2 and either unlabeled PGE2 or other types of prostaglandins. PGE2 (10(-13) to 10(-5) M) did not inhibit basal amylase secretion. However, CCK-8-stimulated secretion was significantly inhibited. Stimulation of secretion by bombesin, carbachol, VIP, and secretin was also inhibited by PGE2, but not as pronounced as CCK-8-stimulated secretion. The formation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate induced by CCK-8 was markedly inhibited by simultaneous incubation with PGE2. Furthermore, PGE2 slightly but significantly reduced the CCK-8-induced efflux of 45Ca2+ from prelabeled acini. Intact acini and a membrane fraction bound [3H]PGE2 and this function could be equally competed by either unlabeled PGE2 or PGE1 in contrast to less-related prostaglandins such as PGF2 alpha, PGD2, and prostacyclin. We conclude that prostaglandins of the E type inhibit pancreatic enzyme secretion stimulated by various secretagogues. This function is mediated via specific receptors for PGE. With regard to CCK-8-stimulated secretion this function may be mediated by an inhibition of formation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate.
The stimulatory effect of PACAP 38 on amylase release in dispersed rat pancreatic acini.	Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide 38 (PACAP 38), a novel peptide of the vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) family, was shown to stimulate enzyme secretion in the dispersed rat pancreatic acini. The dose-response of pancreatic enzyme secretion to PACAP 38 was nearly identical with that to VIP. In the presence of a submaximal dose of PACAP 38 (1 nM), amylase release stimulated by an agonist working via the elevation of intracellular cyclic AMP (VIP, dibutyryl cAMP) was additionally responded, but the amylase release stimulated by an agonist via the elevation of cytosolic free calcium (carbachol, cholecystokinin) was potentiated synergistically. The present data suggest that PACAP 38 is a new candidate for the cAMP-mediated stimulant of pancreatic exocrine secretion.
The effect of cholecystokinin-octapeptide on food intake and consummatory behavior in lactating rats.	Rats are less sensitive to the satiating effect of CCK-8 during some reproductive states such as estrus and proestrus, and in ovariectomized rats following the administration of estradiol and progesterone. The sensitivity of rats to CCK-8's effect on food intake decreases as lactation progresses. During lactation, prolactin and progesterone levels are elevated. Implantation of ectopic pituitaries increases prolactin levels in males and females as well as progesterone levels in females. To evaluate whether or not prolactin elevation modifies CCK's effect on feeding, we studied the effect of CCK-8 on food intake during the early dark cycle in male and female rats implanted with ectopic pituitaries. As previously demonstrated, prolactin levels were elevated in both male and female pituitary-implanted rats and progesterone levels were elevated in the female rats. CCK-8 inhibited food intake in sham-operated male rats, but did not reliably decrease early dark cycle food intake in sham-operated or pituitary-implanted female rats or pituitary-implanted male rats. Thus an elevation in prolactin levels does not appear to modify the effect of CCK-8 on food intake in female rats. We also evaluated the effect of CCK on consummatory and maternal behavior in lactating rats. CCK-8 altered the meal patterns of lactating rats primarily by decreasing the rate of food consumption and increasing the latency to the first meal. The latency to the first meal of rats receiving CCK was increased during early and mid-lactation and the PW period, but not during late lactation compared to that of the saline-injected rats. CCK-8 did not modulate any of the maternal behaviors studied.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Regulation of axon guidance cue netrin-1 on angiogenesis]	To study the effect of netrin-1, an axon guidance cue, on angiogenesis.
Secretagogue-induced Ca2+ oscillations in isolated canine gastric chief cells.	Agonist-induced changes in cytoplasmic free Ca2+ concentration [( Ca2+]i) of isolated canine gastric chief cells were evaluated by microspectrofluorometry of superfused fura-2 loaded cells. Application of high concentrations of carbachol (CCh, 10(-5) M) or cholecystokinin octapeptide (10(-8) M) resulted in biphasic Ca2+ mobilization comprising an initial large transient followed by a small sustained elevation above the prestimulation level. Submaximal concentrations of CCh (10(-6) M) or cholecystokinin (10(-9) M) led to either a transient series of large amplitude Ca2+ spike(s) or a higher frequency of sustained Ca2+ oscillations of smaller amplitude. Cholecystokinin at 10(-10) M induced only sustained Ca2+ oscillations. Elimination of Ca2+ from the medium had no immediate effect on oscillations indicating an intracellular source of Ca2+. Thus the Ca2+ signalling mode in chief cells is dependent on agonist concentrations.
Adenylyl cyclase-5 activity in the nucleus accumbens regulates anxiety-related behavior.	Type 5 adenylyl cyclase (AC5) is highly concentrated in the dorsal striatum and nucleus accumbens (NAc), two brain areas which have been implicated in motor function, reward, and emotion. Here we demonstrate that mice lacking AC5 (AC5-/-) display strong reductions in anxiety-like behavior in several paradigms. This anxiolytic behavior in AC5-/- mice was reduced by the D(1) receptor antagonist SCH23390 and enhanced by the D(1) dopamine receptor agonist, dihydrexidine (DHX). DHX-stimulated c-fos induction in AC5-/- mice was blunted in the dorso-lateral striatum, but it was overactivated in the dorso-medial striatum and NAc. The siRNA-mediated inhibition of AC5 levels within the NAc was sufficient to produce an anxiolytic-like response. Microarray and RT-PCR analyses revealed an up-regulation of prodynorphin and down-regulation of cholecystokinin (CCK) in the NAc of AC5-/- mice. Administration of nor-binaltorphimine (a kappa opioid receptor antagonist) or CCK-8s (a CCK receptor agonist) reversed the anxiolytic-like behavior exhibited by AC5-/- mutants. Taken together, these results suggest an essential role of AC5 in the NAc for maintaining normal levels of anxiety.
Ethanol impairs calcium homeostasis following CCK-8 stimulation in mouse pancreatic acinar cells.	Alcohol consumption has long been associated with cell damage, and it is thought that it is involved in approximately 40% of cases of acute pancreatitis. In the present study, we have investigated the early effects of acute ethanol exposure on cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8)-evoked calcium (Ca2+) signals in mouse pancreatic acinar cells. Cells were loaded with fura-2 and the changes in fluorescence were monitorized using a spectrofluorimeter. Our results show that stimulation of cells with 1 nM CCK-8 led to a transient increase in [Ca2+]c, which consisted of an initial increase followed by a decrease of [Ca2+]c toward a value close to the prestimulation level. In the presence of 50mM ethanol, CCK-8 lead to a greater Ca2+ mobilization compared to that obtained with CCK-8 alone. The peak of CCK-8-evoked Ca2+ response, the "steady-state level" reached 5 min after stimulation, the rate of decay of [Ca2+]c toward basal values and the total Ca2+ mobilization were significantly affected by ethanol pretreatment. Thapsigargin (Tps) induced an increase in [Ca2+]c due to its release from intracellular stores. After stimulation of cells with CCK-8 or Tps in the presence of 50mM ethanol, a greater [Ca2+]c peak response, a slower rate of decay of [Ca2+]c, and higher values of [Ca2+]c were observed. The effects of ethanol might result from a delayed or reduced Ca2+ extrusion from the cytosol toward the extracellular space by plasma membrane Ca2+ adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase), or into the cytosolic stores by the sarcoendoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase. Participation of mitochondria in Ca2+ handling is also demonstrated. The actions of ethanol on CCK-8 stimulation of cells create a situation potentially leading to Ca2+ overload, which is a common pathological precursor that mediates pancreatitis.
Ca2(+)-dependent amylase secretion from pancreatic acinar cells occurs without activation of phospholipase C linked G-proteins.	We have examined the influence of guanine nucleotides on Ca2(+)-dependent amylase secretion from SLO permeabilized rat pancreatic acini. GTP gamma S (100 microM) stimulated Ca2+ dependent amylase release, decreasing the EC50 for Ca2+ from 1.4 to 0.8 microM. By contrast, GDP (1mM) and dGDP (1mM) inhibited the maximal Ca2(+)-dependent secretory response. Measurement of IP3 liberation showed that Ca2+ stimulation did not increase the activity of phospholipase C (PLC) postulated to be linked to a G-protein termed Gp; GDP and dGDP must therefore be exerting their inhibitory action via a GTP-binding protein distinct from the PLC-linked Gp.
Dose-dependency in spatial dynamics of [Ca2+]c in pancreatic acinar cells.	Spatial dynamics of cytosolic concentration of Ca2+, [Ca2+]c, in stimulus-secretion coupling of rat pancreatic acinar cell was monitored by a digital image analysing technique using Fura-2. When freshly isolated acini were stimulated with lower concentrations of CCK-8 (5-30 pM), [Ca2+]c increase began at the region beneath the basolateral membrane and the [Ca2+]c increase depended on the presence of extracellular Ca2+ ([Ca2+]o). CCK-8 at higher concentrations (100 pM and 1 nM), however, caused [Ca2+]c increase even in the absence of [Ca2+]o. Low concentrations of G-protein activator, NaF (10 mM or lower), caused [Ca2+]o-dependent increase in [Ca2+]c, whereas higher concentrations of NaF (15 mM or higher) increased [Ca2+]c in the absence of [Ca2+]o. These results are compatible with the view that G-protein activated by a physiological concentration of secretagogue accelerates Ca2+ entry. This process is in contrast to the process of Ca2+ release from intracellular stores, which can be predominant when pharmacological or toxic concentration of the secretagogue was applied.
Dose effects of cholecystokinin and acetylcholine on phosphorus compounds and secretory responses in isolated perfused pancreas of rat.	Phosphorus nuclear magnetic resonance (31P NMR) spectroscopy was used to study energy supply for protein secretion in the isolated perfused rat pancreas. Stimulation with cholecystokinin (CCK-8) increased fluid secretion and protein output. With 10pM of CCK-8, the tissue contents of ATP, inorganic phosphate (Pi), and creatine phosphate (PCr) remained unchanged. With 100pM of CCK-8, which induced the maximum response in fluid secretion and protein output, Pi increased slightly, ATP and PCr remained almost unchanged. A high dose of CCK-8 (1 nM) suppressed the fluid and protein secretory rates, decreased ATP, and increased Pi significantly, but PCr showed a tendency of increase. Significant changes in ATP and Pi occurred on withdrawal of CCK-8 (1 nM), suggesting activation of ATP hydrolysis for recovery from secretory suppression. During stimulation with 0.1, 0.3, and 3.0 microM of acetylcholine, the similar dose-dependent response was observed in the secretion and the phosphorus metabolism. The present study demonstrated that cytosolic energy metabolism for secretory responses in the pancreas is low and the Lohmann reaction showed less contribution than in the salivary gland. The findings suggest that the energy supply for protein secretion may be cytosolic diffusion of ATP and that the Lohmann reaction system may contribute to synthesis and storing of secretory protein at resting state.
Agonist-regulated phosphorylation of the pancreatic cholecystokinin receptor.	The present study was undertaken to determine if the cholecystokinin (CCK) receptor may be phosphorylated, and to gain insight into its regulation. For this, the ATP pool of rat pancreatic acini was prelabeled with 32P, and the cells were stimulated with various secretagogues. CCK receptors from treated cells were enriched by sequential fractionation to produce plasmalemma, and subsequent solubilization and lectin-affinity chromatography. This protocol detected a phosphorylated Mr = 85,000-95,000 plasma membrane glycoprotein with features similar to the CCK receptor. Phosphorylation of this protein occurred rapidly (less than 2 min) and in a concentration-dependent manner in response to CCK, and was inhibited by the CCK receptor antagonist L-364,718. Further evidence that this represented the CCK receptor included comigration of phosphorylated and CCK radioligand affinity-labeled proteins on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gels, both in native forms and after endoglycosidase F deglycosylation, and the specific adsorption of the phosphoprotein to a CCK analogue affinity resin. Phosphorylation occurred predominantly on serine residues of the receptor protein. Phosphorylation of this protein was also enhanced in response to other secretagogues which, like CCK, stimulate a cascade leading to protein kinase C activation, and in response to direct activation of this enzyme by 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate. Thus, the pancreatic CCK receptor is phosphorylated in a regulated manner, in response to both homologous and heterologous secretagogues, and to protein kinase C activation.
The effect of pancreatic polypeptide and peptide YY on pancreatic blood flow and pancreatic exocrine secretion in the anesthetized dog.	Pancreatic polypeptide (PP) and peptide YY (PYY) are inhibitors of pancreatic exocrine secretion in vivo but not in vitro, which suggests intermediate mechanisms of action. To examine the role of pancreatic blood flow in these inhibitory effects, xenon-133 gas clearance was used to measure pancreatic blood flow while simultaneously measuring pancreatic exocrine secretion. PP or PYY (400 pmol/kg/h) was administered during the intermediate hour of a 3-h secretin (125 ng/kg/h)/cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) (50 ng/kg/h) infusion. Exocrine secretion and pancreatic blood flow during the PP or PYY hours were compared with that observed in the first and third hours of the secretin/CCK-8 infusion. PP and PYY significantly inhibited secretin/CCK-8-induced pancreatic exocrine secretion. In addition, PYY (but not PP) significantly reduced pancreatic blood flow during secretin/CCK-8 stimulation. Nevertheless, there was no correlation between pancreatic blood flow and bicarbonate or protein outputs. It is concluded that changes in pancreatic blood flow do not mediate the inhibitory effects of PP or PYY on the exocrine pancreas.
Characterization of a gastrin-type receptor on rabbit gastric parietal cells using L365,260 and L364,718.	Previous studies have demonstrated that gastrin and the COOH-terminal octapeptide of cholecystokinin (CCK-8) stimulated in vitro acid secretion from isolated rabbit gastric parietal cells. Both peptides bind to receptor sites located on these cells and induce an increase in phosphoinositide turnover and an uptake of [14C]aminopyrine ([14C]AP) with the same efficacy and potency. In the present study, we used the 3-(benzoylamino)-benzodiazepine analogue L365,260 and the 3-(acylamino)-benzodiazepine analogue L364,718 to investigate what type of receptor (gastrin type or CCK-A type) is involved in the regulation of the H+ secretory activity of the rabbit parietal cell. Neither L365,260 nor L364,718 alone caused stimulation of [3H]inositol phosphates ([3H]InsP) production. Each analogue inhibited 125I-labeled gastrin or 125I-CCK-8 binding to parietal cells and gastrin- or CCK-8-induced [3H]InsP production and [14C]AP accumulation. In all cases, L365,260 was approximately 70-100 times more potent than L364,718 (IC50 approximately 2-4 nM for L365,260 and approximately 0.2-0.4 microM for L364,718). Nevertheless, each antagonist displayed the same potency to inhibit the effects of gastrin or CCK-8. These results demonstrate that gastrin and CCK-8 interact with the same "gastrin-type" receptor on parietal cells. Moreover, L365,260 behaves as a competitive antagonist of the action of gastrin on parietal cells. Gastrin induces a rise in the levels of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate [Ins(1,4,5)P3] and inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate [Ins(1,3,4,5)P4] within the first seconds after parietal cell stimulation. The fact that L365,260 (10 nM) totally suppressed the gastrin-induced formation of Ins(1,4,5)P3 and Ins(1,3,4,5)P4 suggests the involvement of these isomers in the mediation of acid secretion through gastrin receptor activation.
Effect of two new cholecystokinin antagonists on gallbladder emptying in opossums.	In this investigation we evaluated the effect of two new cholecystokinin (CCK) antagonists, CR 1409 and L364,718, on gallbladder emptying in the opossum. Gallbladder emptying was elicited by both exogenous and endogenous CCK. The three test challenges were 1) intravenous infusion of CCK octapeptide (OP) (10 ng.kg-1.min-1), 2) feeding, and 3) intraduodenal infusion of Isocal (0.4 ml/min), a fat-containing nutrient. During control conditions each test challenge elicited approximately 60% gallbladder emptying within 30 min and 70% emptying by 60 min. At given doses both CR 1409 and L364,718 substantially antagonized or abolished the gallbladder emptying elicited by each of the test challenges. The antagonism for postprandial gallbladder emptying was diminished between 30 and 50 min compared with that for CCK-OP infusion and intraduodenal infusion of Isocal. Unexpectedly, the gallbladder emptying induced by infusion of motilin (5 micrograms.kg-1.h-1) was antagonized by either CR 1409 or L364,718. In anesthetized animals, gallbladder contraction was induced by a variety of agonists, such as bethanechol, histamine phosphate, 5-hydroxytryptamine, and phenylephrine. In this later model CR 1409 and L364,718 functioned solely as selective antagonists. We conclude that for the opossum gallbladder 1) the CCK antagonists CR 1409 and L364,718 antagonize or abolish gallbladder emptying induced by exogenous or endogenous CCK; 2) the pattern of CCK antagonism after feeding suggests that the early phase of postprandial gallbladder emptying is mediated by a mechanism other than endogenous CCK, whereas late postprandial emptying is mediated by release of endogenous CCK; and 3) CR 1409 and L364,718 are not totally specific antagonists for gallbladder CCK receptors alone but also antagonize gallbladder contraction induced by motilin.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Intracellular recordings from gallbladder ganglia of opossums.	Postganglionic parasympathetic neurons of the opossum gallbladder were studied using morphological and intracellular electrophysiological recording techniques. On average there were 17 ganglia/cm2 with 8 neurons/ganglion arranged as loosely or densely packed clusters. Intracellular injection of horseradish peroxidase identified two types of neurons. Most of the neurons (approximately 80%) had a single long process that extended beyond the ganglion border with few or no short additional neurites. The other type was multipolar, having several processes that did not appear to extend beyond the ganglion border. Gallbladder neurons had passive and active electrical properties similar to other parasympathetic ganglion cells. Most of neurons studied (71%) responded to intracellular injection of suprathreshold depolarizing current with a short burst of action potentials. The remaining neurons (29%) responded with only an initial action potential. Seventy percent of the neurons tested received nicotinic fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs). Nineteen percent of these neurons also exhibited a slow depolarizing response following repetitive orthodromic nerve stimulation. Cholecystokinin octapeptide sulfate (CCK-8, 0.1-500 nM) had no effect on resting membrane potential or membrane input resistance. However, CCK-8 increased the amplitude of fast EPSPs evoked by orthodromic nerve stimulation by facilitating release of acetylcholine because CCK-8 had no effect on the postsynaptic response to exogenously applied acetylcholine. These data suggest that the ganglionated plexus of the gallbladder may mediate some of the observed effects of CCK-8 on gallbladder motility.
The effect of cholecystokinin-receptor antagonists on cholecystokinin-stimulated bile flow in dogs.	Cholecystokinin is a choleretic in dogs. Some of the effects of cholecystokinin in stimulating bile flow in dogs are produced by cholecystokinin stimulating the release of other choleretic hormones such as insulin and glucagon. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of cholecystokinin receptor antagonists on canine hepatic bile flow and insulin and glucagon release from the pancreas. Cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) and intraduodenal fat were administered to dogs that had undergone cholecystectomy with chronic biliary fistulas with and without the administration of cholecystokinin receptor antagonists. Bile secretion and systemic venous insulin, glucagon, and cholecystokinin levels were measured. The cholecystokinin receptor antagonists benzotript and CR 1409 had no effect on bile flow or hormone levels when administered without cholecystokinin, whereas proglumide produced a large increase in bile flow without altering hormone levels. The response produced by proglumide may be the result of an osmotic effect produced by the substance being secreted in bile and its stimulating bile salt secretion in bile. CCK-8 and intraduodenal fat increased bile flow, bile chloride secretion, and cholecystokinin, insulin, and glucagon concentrations in venous blood. The cholecystokinin receptor antagonists benzotript and CR 1409 significantly decreased the bile flow and insulin and glucagon changes produced by exogenous CCK-8. The effect of intraduodenal fat on bile flow was not inhibited by the cholecystokinin receptor antagonists, whereas the increased insulin and glucagon levels were decreased significantly. Intraduodenal fat may release other choleretic hormones not affected by cholecystokinin receptor antagonists. The choleresis produced by exogenous CCK-8 is inhibited by cholecystokinin receptor antagonists, perhaps by inhibiting the release of the choleretic hormones insulin and glucagon.
Vagotomy attenuates suppression of sham feeding induced by intestinal nutrients.	The ability of intraintestinal nutrient infusions to suppress sham feeding was examined in intact rats and in rats with total subdiaphragmatic vagal transections. Vagotomy abolished the suppression of sham feeding by intraintestinal infusion of maltose or oleate. Suppression of sham feeding by intraintestinal L-phenylalanine was reduced but not abolished by vagotomy. The results of this examination indicate that the vagus nerve mediates suppression of the sham feeding by intraintestinal maltose and oleate but is only partially responsible for suppression of food intake produced by L-phenylalanine. Taken together with previously published data these results suggest that effects on feeding by specific nutrients may be mediated by anatomically distinct populations of visceral afferent neurons.
Progesterone receptor A mediates VIP inhibition of contraction.	The slow transit time of the colon in females with constipation is due to impairment of agonist-induced contraction. The impairment is associated with downregulation of G proteins that mediate contraction and upregulation of Gs proteins that mediate relaxation. These changes are caused by overexpression of progesterone (P4) receptors in the colon, rendering its muscle cells sensitive to physiological P4 concentrations. Downregulation of Gq/11 is mediated by P4 receptor B (PR-B). We examined whether upregulation of Gs proteins increased the inhibition of contraction and whether the increase is mediated by the P4 receptor A (PR-A). These studies were conducted in colon-isolated colon muscle cells from human control and slow-transit constipation (STC) females and from guinea pigs. Muscle cell contraction was induced by CCK-8. Inhibition of contraction was induced by vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), and 8'bromo-c'AMP (8B-c'AMP) G protein levels were determined by Western blot. VIP-induced inhibition of contraction was greater in muscle cells from STC and P4-treated muscle cells. There were no differences in the inhibition induced by 8B-c'AMP between muscle cells from STC and P4-treated controls. The increased VIP-induced inhibition of muscle cells treated with P4 was blocked by pretreatment with PR-A antibodies and unaffected by PR-B antibodies. These antibodies had no effect on 8B-c'AMP induced-inhibition. The P4 upregulation of Gs proteins was blocked by PR-A antibodies and unaffected by PR-B antibodies. Similar results were obtained in muscle cells from guinea pig colons. We concluded that P4 upregulation of Gs proteins increases VIP-induced inhibition of contraction mediated by PR-A.
Effect of cholecystokinin octapeptide on endogenous amino acid release from the rat ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus and striatum.	The sulphated octapeptide of cholecystokinin (CCK-8S) was found to cause a dose-dependent increase in the basal release of aspartate, glycine, and gamma-aminobutyric acid from the striatum and the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMH). No effect on amino acid release was observed after electrical (VMH) or potassium (striatum) stimulation. Experiments performed using the CCKB-selective antagonist L-365,260 and the CCKA-selective antagonist L-364,718 suggested that this action of CCK-8S was mediated via the CCKB receptor. The ability of CCK-8S to evoke amino acid release was not dependent on the presence of extracellular calcium, though the effect was abolished by tetrodotoxin. Inhibition of protein kinase activity by staurosporine prevented the excitatory effects of CCK-8S on amino acid release.
The effect of SMS 201-995 on meal and CCK-stimulated peptide YY release.	Somatostatin is known to inhibit the postprandial release of most gastrointestinal hormones. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of an analog of somatostatin, SMS 201-995 (120 ng/kg/hr), on both meal-induced and cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8, 500 ng/kg/hr)-induced peptide YY (PYY) release. Six mongrel dogs with distal ileal Thiry-Vella loops were used in this study. PYY was measured in both plasma and ileal luminal effluent. SMS 201-995 did not affect interdigestive plasma or ileal luminal PYY concentrations. CCK-8 and a fat meal both stimulated PYY release into the circulation. SMS 201-995 completely inhibited the CCK-8 and fat-stimulated circulatory release of PYY. Both CCK-8 and a mixed meal increased ileal luminal PYY recovery. SMS 201-995 inhibited CCK-8-induced, but not meal-induced, ileal luminal PYY recovery. These findings support previous studies that describe independent circulatory and ileal luminal PYY release. We conclude that both somatostatin and CCK may have a regulatory role in postprandial circulatory release of PYY.
Protection induced by cholecystokinin-8 (CCK-8) in ethanol-induced gastric lesions is mediated via vagal capsaicin-sensitive fibres and CCKA receptors.	We have investigated the effect of intravenous injection of cholecystokinin-8 (CCK-8) and other peptides on gastric lesion formation in response to an intragastric perfusion with 25% ethanol in rats anaesthetized with urethane. 2. Intravenous injection of CCK-8 (50-100 nmol kg-1), but not bombesin (1-100 nmol kg-1), calcitonin gene-related peptide (1-50 nmol kg-1), neurokinin A (1 mumol kg-1) or substance P (100 nmol kg-1), induced protection against gastric haemorrhagic lesions produced by ethanol. 3. The CCKA-antagonist L-364,718 (2.45 mumol kg-1, i.v.) increased the lesion index induced by ethanol and reversed the protective effect of CCK-8 (50 nmol kg-1, i.v.). The CCKB-antagonist L-365,260 (5 mumol kg-1, i.v.) and a lower dose of L-364,718 (0.25 mumol kg-1, i.v.) were ineffective. 4. The gastric protective effects afforded by CCK-8 (50 nmol kg-1, i.v.) were not observed in vagotomized-rats and were reduced by capsaicin pretreatment. In capsaicin-pretreated rats there was a worsening of gastric lesions induced by ethanol-perfusion as compared to those observed in vehicle-pretreated rats. 5. These results demonstrate that the mucosal protective effect of CCK-8 involves, at least in part, the activation of CCKA-receptors and is mediated by vagal capsaicin-sensitive fibres.
Cholecystokinin octapeptide regulates lipopolysaccharide-activated B cells co-stimulatory molecule expression and cytokines production in vitro.	Cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK8) can exert the immunoregulatory roles through activating immune cell surface receptors such as T lymphocytes, macrophages, dendritic cells, and so on. In this study, we discussed the effects of CCK8 on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-activated B cells in terms of the expression of co-stimulatory molecules, and the capacity to activate CD4(+) T cells and cytokines production in vitro. The results revealed that B cells expressed two types of CCK receptors; CCK8 inhibited the expression of co-stimulatory molecules such as CD80 and CD86 on LPS-activated B cells, suppressed the proliferation of allogeneic T cells in a dose-dependent manner, and also reduced the secretion of Th1-type cytokine IFN-γ, whereas enhanced the secretion of Th2-type cytokine IL-4 by LPS-activated B cells. Both CCK1R and CCK2R participated in these effects. Taken together, CCK8 is capable of exerting immunomodulatory functions through B cells.
Rapakinin, Arg-Ile-Tyr, derived from rapeseed napin, shows anti-opioid activity via the prostaglandin IP receptor followed by the cholecystokinin CCK(2) receptor in mice.	Rapakinin, Arg-Ile-Tyr, is a vasorelaxing, anti-hypertensive and anorexigenic peptide derived from rapeseed napin. In this study, we found that rapakinin intracerebroventricularly administered to mice inhibited the analgesic effect of morphine, evaluated by the tail-pinch test. The anti-opioid activity of rapakinin was blocked by LY225910, an antagonist of the cholecystokinin (CCK) CCK(2) receptor, but not by lorglumide, an antagonist of the CCK(1) receptor. The anti-opioid activity of rapakinin was also blocked by CAY10441, an antagonist of the prostaglandin (PG) IP receptor. These results suggest that the anti-opioid activity of rapakinin is mediated by the CCK(2) and IP receptors. The anti-opioid activity induced by ciprostene, an IP receptor agonist, was blocked by LY225910, while that of CCK-8 was not blocked by CAY10441. Thus, it is demonstrated that the CCK-CCK(2) system was activated downstream of the PGI(2)-IP receptor system. Taken together, rapakinin shows anti-opioid activity via the activation of the PGI(2)-IP receptor system followed by the CCK-CCK(2) receptor system.
Effect of pectin on the function of the rat exocrine pancreas.	The author studied the effect of three weeks' administration of a 5% pectin concentration in the standard (Larsen) diet on basal and cholecystokinin octapeptide-(CCK8-) stimulated pancreatic exosecretion in rats. Protein, amylase and trypsinogen output determined in pancreatic juice obtained under basal conditions and after CCK8 stimulation of the exocrine pancreas showed no statistically significant differences between rats fed on the standard and the pectin-enriched Larsen diet. Our observations and studies by other authors show that the direct effect of dietary fibre on the exocrine function of the pancreas is an open question as far as further research is concerned.
Lack of change in basal ganglia neuropeptide content following subacute 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine treatment of the common marmoset.	Treatment of common marmosets with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP; 1-4 mg/kg for up to 4 days) caused a profound parkinsonian state. Ten days from the start of MPTP treatment, all animals showed marked motor impairment, consisting of bradykinesia and akinesia, limb rigidity, postural abnormalities, loss of vocalisation and blink reflex, and, on occasions, postural tremor. Measurement of caudate-putamen monoamine content at this time showed a profound loss in 3,4-dihydroxyphenylethylamine, homovanillic acid, and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid concentrations. Measurement of neuropeptide concentrations in the caudate-putamen, internal and external segments of the globus pallidus, nucleus accumbens, substantia nigra, frontal cortex, and hippocampus showed met-enkephalin, leu-enkephalin, and cholecystokinin (CCK-8) concentrations to be unaffected by MPTP treatment. There was a small decrease in the substance P content of frontal cortex, but otherwise the content of this neuropeptide was unaltered. Parkinsonism in the marmoset, induced by MPTP treatment 10 days earlier, does not alter neuropeptide concentrations in the manner observed in Parkinson's disease.
GIP potentiates CCK stimulated pancreatic enzyme secretion: correlation of anatomical structures with the effects of GIP and CCK on amylase secretion.	Utilizing scanning electron microscopy and isolated, vascularly perfused rat pancreas, we studied the angioarchitecture and the effect of the insulinotropic hormone, gastric inhibitory polypeptide (GIP), on cholecystokinin (CCK)-stimulated exocrine secretion. We tried to correlate the microcirculation with the physiological effect of insulin on the pancreatic secretion in the same species. We found a vascular pattern consisting of direct insuloacinar connections, a venous drainage system of islets, and a direct arterial supply of acini. GIP at a concentration as low as 2 ng/ml or exogenous rat insulin potentiated CCK-stimulated pancreatic enzyme secretion. To have similar effects as insulin which is endogenously released by GIP, about 30 times more exogenous rat insulin has to be infused. We conclude that based on the angioarchitecture, insulinotropic hormones like GIP could link the metabolic and the digestive function of the pancreas.
Cholecystokinin octapeptide, caerulein, substance P, neurotensin, and angiotensin II: species-typical effects on the isolated portal vein of guinea pig and rat.	The isolated, spontaneously active portal vein of guinea pig was stimulated by the following compounds (the pD2 is given in parentheses): caerulein (CER, 8.02), cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8, 7.59), substance P (SP, 4.68), and carbachol (5.37), whereas neurotensin (NT) was ineffective and angiotensin II (AII) produced inhibition. On the portal vein of the rat, CER and CCK-8 were ineffective, whereas stimulation occurred with SP (5.72), NT (6.79), AII (7.89), and carbachol (5.50). Tetrodotoxin did not modify these effects in both types of preparation. Cyclic dibutyryl guanosine monophosphate reduced the effect of CCK-8 and CER but not that of carbachol. It is concluded that the peptides stimulate the portal vein in a way independent from intramural neurons. It may be speculated that receptors for CCK-8 and CER are absent in the portal vein of rat and those for NT in the guinea pig vein.
Ontogeny of secretory function and cholecystokinin binding capacity in immature rat pancreas.	Isolated acini were prepared from the pancreas of immature rats (age less than 1 hr. - 48 hrs) in order to study the development of the secretory process. The ultrastructural integrity of the acinar cells was maintained after digestion and stimulation with secretagogues. Acini prepared from rats aged 24 - 48 hours responded to both CCK-8 and carbachol with significant increases in amylase release. Although typical biphasic dose response curves were obtained, the curves were shifted to the right by 1 - 2 log units, compared to the responses of adult acini. At ages younger than 24 hours, acini were insensitive to secretagogues but were sensitive to the calcium ionophore A23187. CCK receptors were virtually absent from membranes prepared from newborn pancreases, but binding of CCK, although small, was measurable at 12 hours and slowly increased up to 48 hours. A greater amount of binding was seen at 72 hours, which appeared constant up to 14 days. At 21 days, adult levels of binding were found. These results confirm previous studies that the rat pancreas is insensitive to secretagogues in the first 24 hours of life. After age 24 hours the secretory process is intact but less sensitive to secretory agents than the more mature pancreas. In the case of CCK, this may be due to lesser numbers of CCK receptors and/or affinity of CCK for its receptor.
Subtypes of muscarinic receptors in canine pancreatic secretion in vivo and in vitro.	In conscious dogs with esophageal, gastric and pancreatic fistulae, sham-feeding and meat feeding increased the pancreatic protein secretion to a peak, reaching about 39% and 69% of CCK8 maximum, and raised plasma pancreatic polypeptide (PP) levels. Pirenzepine given intravenously (i.v.) (30 nmol.kg-1 or 3 mumol.kg-1) reduced dose-dependently the pancreatic protein and plasma PP responses to sham-feeding and meat feeding, being about 100 times less potent as an inhibitor than atropine. Neither pirenzepine nor atropine affected near-maximal pancreatic bicarbonate and protein responses to secretin (164 pmol.kg-1.h-1) and CCK8 (170 pmol.kg-1.h-1), but both antimuscarinic agents significantly inhibited pancreatic responses to lower doses of these secretagogues. When added to the incubation medium of dispersed canine pancreatic acini, pirenzepine reduced dose-dependently the amylase responses only to urecholine, and not to CCK or gastrin, being about 1000 times less potent as an inhibitor than atropine. This report provides an evidence that pirenzepine inhibits pancreatic secretion in a similar manner to atropine, but that pirenzepine, in both in vivo and in vitro studies, is 2-3 orders of magnitude less potent as an inhibitor than atropine, indicating that the muscarinic pathway of the exocrine pancreas has a low affinity for pirenzepine and may thus involve M2-receptors.
The effect of cholecystokinin-octapeptide, insulin, glucagon, triiodothyronine, and epidermal growth factor on amylase activity in fetal pancreas in vitro.	To evaluate the possible role of various hormones on fetal pancreas development, late gestational fetal rat pancreata (20 days) were cultured in a serum-free medium for 6 days in the presence of cholecystokinin-octapeptide (CCK-8), epidermal growth factor, triiodothyronine, or glucagon with or without dexamethasone. In the absence of any added hormone, the tissue amylase activity declined very rapidly. Epidermal growth factor alone (4.10(-7) M) could not preserve the amylase activity, whereas triiodothyronine (0.1 microM) and glucagon (4 micrograms/ml) had a deleterious effect that was prevented by the addition of DXM (3.10(-6) M). In the presence of CCK-8 (2.10(-11) M) 50 and 30% of the amylase activity was maintained on the 2nd and the 4th day of culture, respectively. The CCK-8 effect was dose dependent and was inhibited by asperlicin (10 microM). The combination of CCK-8 and dexamethasone maintained more than 80% of the amylase activity in the fetal pancreas explants through 4 days of culture. Fetal pancreas cultured in this optimal medium and treated with streptozotocin (10(-7) M) during the 1st day of culture showed a significantly lower tissue amylase activity on the 4th and 6th days than those not treated with streptozotocin. The streptozotocin effect was attenuated when insulin (0.1 U/ml) was added. These data suggest that, in addition to the well-known effect of glucocorticoid on enzyme activities in the fetal pancreas, two additional hormones, CCK and insulin, could play a role in the modulation of pancreatic amylase activity in the fetal rat.
Selectivity of quercetin inhibition on stimulated amylase release in rat pancreatic acini.	Quercetin (Q) has been shown to inhibit Ca2+-dependent processes. The present study evaluates the effect of Q on amylase release stimulated by various agonists in dispersed rat pancreatic acini. Q inhibited amylase release stimulated by an optimal concentration of carbachol. The inhibition was dependent on Q concentration. Preincubation with Q was not necessary. Maximal inhibition (up to 60% of control) was reached at 50 microM of Q and was completely reversible. Full responsiveness of the acini to agonist stimulation was reestablished as early as 5 min upon the removal of Q. At 50 microM, Q inhibited stimulated amylase release by optimal concentrations of tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) (10(-6) M), A23187 (3 x 10(-6) M), cholecystokinin C-terminal octapeptide (CCK-OP) (10(-9) M) and carbachol (3 x 10(-6) M), but not by vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) (3 x 10(-7) M). Instead, Q promoted amylase release stimulated by VIP. The inhibition of amylase secretion by Q occurred only at near optimal, optimal, and supraoptimal concentrations of TPA, A23187, CCK-OP, and carbachol. The potentiation effect of Q on VIP-stimulated amylase secretion was, however, seen at all concentrations of VIP used (10(-8) to 10(-6) M). Quercetin also inhibited protein kinase C activity from rat pancreas in a dose-dependent manner. Maximal inhibition (approximately 85%) was seen at 100 microM of Q. These results provide further support that the intermediary steps for stimulated enzyme secretion in pancreatic acini by TPA, A23187, CCK-OP, and carbachol involve calmodulin and/or protein kinase C, whereas VIP does not.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Exocrine function of the heterotopic transplanted pancreas segment: influence of denervation in dogs.	We investigated the effect of denervation after heterotopic segmental pancreas autotransplantation on the exocrine function of the graft. The weight of the pancreas segment was determined, and secretory volume, bicarbonate output, and amylase activity were measured before and after i.v. infusion of secretin and cholecystokinin (CCK)-8. The studies were performed in untreated normal dogs, at 2 months postoperatively in partially pancreatectomized dogs with an innervated segment left in situ, and in totally pancreatectomized recipients of denervated heterotopic autotransplanted segments (approximately 30% of whole pancreas). The weight of the pancreas segment was similar in innervated and denervated dogs. Basal pancreatic secretory volume, bicarbonate output, and amylase activity were largely independent of cholinergic control. The secretory volume and bicarbonate output response to i.v. gut hormones (mainly secretin) were slightly modulated by cholinergic activity, whereas amylase response to gut hormones (mainly CCK-8) was quite independent of cholinergic control. We conclude that, after pancreas transplants, the effect of denervation on graft exocrine function is negligible--a finding that is reassuring if preserving of the exocrine tissue is important for optimal endocrine function of the graft.
CCK-58 prolongs the intermeal interval, whereas CCK-8 reduces this interval: not all forms of cholecystokinin have equal bioactivity.	It has been accepted for decades that "all forms of cholecystokinin (CCK) have equal bioactivity," despite accumulating evidence to the contrary. To challenge this concept, we compared two feeding responses, meal size (MS, 10% sucrose) and intermeal interval (IMI), in response to CCK-58, which is the major endocrine form of CCK, and CCK-8, which is the most abundantly utilized form. Doses (0, 0.1, 0.5, 0.75, 1, 3 and 5 nmol/kg) were administered intraperitoneally over a 210-min test to Sprague Dawley rats that had been food-deprived overnight. We found that (1) all doses of CCK-58, except the lowest dose, and all doses of CCK-8, except the lowest two doses, reduced food intake more than vehicle did; (2) at two doses, 0.75 and 3 nmol/kg, CCK-58 increased the IMI, while CCK-8 failed to alter this feeding response; and (3) CCK-58, at all but the lowest two doses, increased the satiety ratio (IMI between first and second meals (min) divided by first MS (ml)) relative to vehicle, while CCK-8 did not affect this value. These findings demonstrate that the only circulating form of CCK in rats, CCK-58, prolongs the IMI more than CCK-8, the peptide generally utilized in feeding studies. Taken together, these results add to a growing list of functions where CCK-8 and CCK-58 express qualitatively different bioactivities. In conclusion, the hypothesis that "all forms of cholecystokinin (CCK) have equal bioactivity" is not supported.
Effects of a new proglumide analogue CR 1392 on pancreatic exocrine secretion in the rat.	The effects of proglumide analogue. CR 1392, on pancreatic exocrine secretion were studied in the isolated pancreatic acini and the isolated perfused pancreata of rats. In the isolated acini, CR 1392 caused a parallel rightward shift of the dose-response curve for amylase secretion stimulated by cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8). CR 1392 inhibited maximally stimulated amylase release by CCK-8 (100 pM) in a concentration-dependent manner, with a half maximal inhibition (ID50) at 8.0 +/- 0.6 microM. CR 1409, another proglumide analogue, also caused a concentration-dependent inhibition (ID50: 3.2 +/- 0.4 microM). Although CR 1409 was about 2.5-fold more potent than CR 1392 in inhibiting the stimulated amylase release, 1 mM CR 1409 caused 107.4 +/- 0.9% increase in amylase release, suggesting acinar cell damage. CR 1392 (1 mM) also caused 19.9 +/- 2.3% increase in amylase release, but was less toxic than CR 1409. The antagonism produced by CR 1392 was selective for CCK and had no effect on amylase release stimulated by other receptor secretagogues or by agents bypassing receptors. CR 1392 added 20 min after the CCK-8 stimulation rapidly abolished pancreatic exocrine secretion in both isolated acini and isolated perfused pancreas. Although the inhibitory effect of CR 1392 was fully reversible in the isolated acini, the pancreata perfused with 100 microM CR 1392 for 20 min did not respond to the subsequent stimulation with CCK-8 for more than 20 min. These results indicate that CR 1392 is a potent, competitive, specific and long acting antagonist of CCK in rat pancreas.
Effects of CCK-8 in combination with natural or synthetic secretin on amylase, lipase, trypsin, and chymotrypsin secretion in rats.	In the present study, we examined the interaction between CCK-8 and natural or synthetic secretin on pancreatic enzyme secretion. On anaesthetized rats, a proximal duodenal segment was continuously perfused with saline and amylase, lipase, trypsin, and chymotrypsin were determined in the perfusate. Neither during iv saline nor during iv secretin (natural or synthetic) at doses of 0.01, 0.05, or 0.1 CU/kg/h, any of the four enzymes changed significantly from basal values over a period of 100 min. Iv CCK-8 at stepwise increasing doses of 5, 10, and 20 pmol/kg/h elicited a significant increase of all four enzymes at the medium dose, with a further increase of amylase and trypsin, but not lipase and chymotrypsin at 20 pmol/kg/h. The addition of secretin at all 3 doses potentiated CCK-induced trypsin output. The effects of natural secretin were more pronounced than those of the synthetic peptide. Secretin significantly increased amylase secretion over basal at the lowest dose of CCK-8 (5 pmol/kg/h) that by itself had no effect on amylase release. Only the higher doses of natural but not synthetic secretin augmented lipase secretion during the lowest dose of CCK-8. Both forms of secretin had no further stimulatory effect on CCK-induced chymotrypsin secretion. The present data demonstrate that, first, in rats a potentiation of CCK-8-induced enzyme secretion by low doses of secretin is different for the four enzymes, which suggests a differential regulatory action of these two intestinal hormones on pancreatic enzyme release. Second, the different effects of natural secretin may represent those of contaminants suggesting that only synthetic secretin should be employed in future studies of this peptide on pancreatic enzyme secretion.
Mechanisms of action of alcohol administration on the trophic effect of soybean trypsin inhibitor and cholecystokinin octapeptide in rat.	Influence of alcohol administration on the trophic effect of cholecystokinin-octapeptide and soybean trypsin inhibitor administration was examined in male Wistar rats. Two x 4 mL of 20% alcohol given intragastrically during 2 wk did not significantly influence pancreatic weight, DNA, protein, trypsin, chymotrypsin, amylase, lipase, or trypsin inhibitor contents of the pancreas. It diminished the hypertrophy but not the hyperplasia seen after CCK-8 treatment, and eliminated the hyperplasia, as well as the hypertrophy provoked by SBTI administration. Secretory studies and CCK measurements demonstrated decreased CCK release in response to SBTI stimulation after 3-d alcohol administration. The results indicate that alcohol inhibits the enzyme synthesis of the CCK stimulated dividing and/or newly formed acinar cells and the endogenous CCK release.
In-vitro bioassays for cholecystokinin.	Two in-vitro methods for the bioassay of cholecystokinin (CCK) are described. They should be useful for determinations of potencies of pharmaceutical formulations of CCK. Both are based on the hormone's ability to stimulate exocrine pancreas. The stimulatory effect on 45Ca efflux from preloaded suspended acinar cells or on release of amylase from pancreatic acini from the guinea-pig has been recorded. The assay based on stimulation of 45Ca outflux is more specific and precise than the method using measurements of amylase secretion. Therefore, the calcium assay was further validated against the conventional guinea-pig gall-bladder contraction assay. Both methods gave similar potency readings but the results from the in-vitro assay were more precise.
Effect of estradiol on pancreatic amylase and cholecystokinin binding in ovariectomized guinea pigs.	The effect of estradiol (E2) on amylase content and on basal and stimulated amylase release from the pancreatic acini was examined in relation to its effects on cholecystokinin (CCK)-receptor (R) levels. Guinea pigs were ovariectomized (OVX) and a week later administered either E2 (10 micrograms/kg) (Treated, T) or vehicle (corn oil) (Control, C) 0.2 ml/day s.c. After 7 days of injections, animals were killed, pancreata weighed and basal and stimulated amylase release from pancreatic acini measured. Receptors for CCK were measured on pancreatic membranes. Chronic administration of E2 resulted in a significant decrease in: (1) pancreatic weight (0.96 +/- 0.04, T vs 1.142 +/- 0.046 g, C); (2) total pancreatic DNA content (5.74 +/- 0.37, T vs 6.81 +/- 0.16 mgs, C); (3) total amylase content in pancreata (2081 +/- 307, T vs 3795 +/- 442 I.U., C); (4) absolute value of basal amylase release (6.57 +/- 1.4, T vs 11.8 +/- 1.9 I.U./incubate, C); and (5) absolute value of amylase release stimulated by increasing doses (0.01-1000 nM) of CCK in T vs C animals. On the other hand, the amylase release in response to greater than 0.5 nM of CCK, expressed as a percentage of the total amylase content, was significantly increased in T vs C animals, which may be related to a significant rise in the concentration (fmol/mg protein) of CCK-receptors (629.8 +/- 65.9, T vs 313.4 +/- 92.7 fmol, C). Concentration of DNA/unit pancreatic weight and basal amylase release expressed as a percentage of total content, however, was similar in the C and T guinea pigs, while concentration of amylase and CCK-receptors/unit pancreatic weight remained significantly different in the two groups of animals. These results suggest that E2 may have more than one effect on the pancreas in vivo, including a significant reduction in pancreatic growth and amylase concentration/cell and an up-regulation of CCK-receptors/cell.
Cholecystokinin elevates cytosolic calcium in small cell lung cancer cells.	The ability of cholecystokinin (CCK) to elevate intracellular Ca2+ levels in small cell lung cancer cells was investigated using the fluorescent Ca2+ indicator Fura 2. CCK-8 elevated the cytosolic Ca2+ levels in cell line NCI-H345 in a dose dependent manner. Nanomolar concentration of CCK-8 elevated cytosolic Ca2+ levels in the absence or presence of extracellular Ca2+. Potent CCK agonists such as gastrin-1 and nonsulfated CCK-8 but not inactive compounds such as CCK-27-32-NH2 elevated cytosolic Ca2+ levels. These data suggest that CCK receptors may regulate the release of Ca2+ from intracellular organelles in small cell lung cancer cells.
Pancreatic islets obtained from pancreases with short-term exocrine atrophy disturbed morphology but normal in vitro response to various stimuli.	The morphology and function islets isolated from rat pancreases with short-term (16 days) exocrine atrophy was investigated. It was found that this type of atrophy induced changes in the shape and morphological structure of pancreatic islets. However, the function of isolate islets did not change, as investigated by the basal or glucose-stimulated secretion of insulin, glucagon and somatostatin, and by the CCK-stimulated secretion of insulin. We conclude that the rat pancreas brought to atrophy by a short-term ligation of the pancreatic duct can be considered as a rich source of functionally viable islets.
Effects of cholecystokinin octapeptide and carbachol on neonatal insulin secretory dynamics.	The effects of glucose, sulfated cholecystokinin-octapeptide (CCK-8), or carbachol on insulin secretory dynamics were studied in pancreatic islets isolated from 1- and 3-day-old neonatal rats. When challenged with glucose, 1-day islets responded with a definite first phase and elevated secretion during the latter part of the stimulation period; 3-day islets had a first phase and a rising, sustained second phase. The presence of stimulatory concentrations of CCK-8 or carbachol in addition to glucose caused dramatic changes in the release pattern in both islet populations. In 1-day islets, carbachol stimulated mainly first phase secretion whereas CCK-8 enhanced first phase release and produced a definite second phase response. The two secretagogues increased significantly both phases of release in 3-day islets with no differences between the two agents in their effects. These results indicate that CCK-8 and carbachol differentially stimulate neonatal insulin secretion, possibly through different steps in the stimulus-secretion pathway. They also suggest that the cellular mechanism for second phase release is present in 1-day islets and can be activated by CCK-8.
CCK receptor antagonism by loxiglumide and gall bladder contractions in response to cholecystokinin, sham feeding and ordinary feeding in man.	The postprandial contractions of the gall bladder result from the interaction of neurohormonal factors but their relative contribution is unknown. This study was designed to determine the role of cholecystokinin (CCK) in gall bladder contractions using a highly selective and potent CCK-receptor antagonist, CR-1505 (loxiglumide) in healthy men either infused with exogenous CCK in graded doses (1.56-50 pmol/kg/h) or subjected to modified sham feeding (MSF) and ordinary feeding tests. The gall bladder volume measured by real time ultrasonography showed dose dependent decrease in the gall bladder volume in 10 subjects when CCK8 was infused iv in graded doses reaching about 15% at 1.56 pmol/kg/h and 91% at 50 pmol/kg/h. Close correlation between the decrease in gall bladder volume and the dosage of CCK or the increments in plasma CCK-bioactivity was observed. After pretreatment with loxiglumide, CCK resulted in similar increments in plasma CCK-bioactivity but failed to affect the gall bladder volume at CCK doses up to 6.25 pmol/kg/h and caused only 53% reduction at 50 pmol/kg/h. Modified sham feeding and real feeding reduced the volume of gall bladder by 20% and 70%, respectively and loxiglumide decreased these values to 15% and 30%, respectively. This study provides evidence that loxiglumide is highly potent and selective CCK antagonist and that endogenous CCK plays an important role both in the postprandial contractions of gall bladder.
A model of jejunoileal in vivo neural isolation of the entire jejunoileum: transplantation and the effects on intestinal motility.	The effects of intestinal transplantation on enteric physiology have not been well studied. Our aim was to determine the effect of jejunoileal transplantation on patterns of small intestinal motility. To avoid confounding effects of immune rejection or immunosuppression, we developed a model of autotransplantation in which all tissue connections to the entire jejunoileum were transected at the base of the mesentery except for the superior mesenteric artery and vein which were stripped meticulously of investing adventitia. After 3 weeks, motility was studied in eight dogs with intestinal electrodes during fasting, after meals of 50 and 500 g of liver, and during intravenous infusions of pentagastrin and cholecystokinin. During fasting, the characteristic inter-digestive migrating motor complex (MMC) was present in both the innervated duodenum and the "autotransplanted" jejunoileum; however, temporal coordination between the two regions was abolished. Feeding 50 g of liver abolished the MMC in the duodenum, but not in the jejunoileum; in contrast, 500 g of liver interrupted the MMC in both regions. Exogenous pentagastrin and cholecystokinin inhibited the MMC for the duration of the infusions. These findings suggest that extrinsic nerves and/or intrinsic (enteric) myoneural continuity do not initiate fasting motor patterns in the jejunoileum but do regulate the temporal coordination of motor patterns between segments of small intestine. Postprandial inhibition of the MMC is only in part mediated by neural factors. After transplantation, motility is abnormal; the overall effects on enteric physiology remain unknown.
Effect of cholecystokinin on acetylcholine turnover and dopamine release in the rat striatum and cortex.	The effect of sulfated cholecystokinin (CCK-8S) on acetylcholine turnover (TRACh) and dopamine (DA) release in the rat cerebral cortex and striatum was studied in unanaesthetized animals in vivo. CCK-8S (1 mg/kg s.c.) decreased TRACh in the fronto-parietal cortex but not in the striatum. This effect was prevented by peripheral (10 mg/kg i.p.) but not central (1 microgram i.v.t.) administration of the peripheral CCK receptor antagonist CR 1409. In a separate study, CCK-8S decreased 3-methoxytyramine (3-MT) levels (an index of DA release) in the fronto-parietal cortex and in the striatum. CR 1409 appeared to have a partial agonist action, reducing cortical and striatal 3-MT levels, and only partially reversing the effect of CCK-8S in the striatum. These data indicate that peripheral administration of CCK-8S decrease TRACh in the cortex but not in the striatum and that this action is mediated by peripheral-type CCK receptors possibly located outside the CNS. CCK-8S also reduces DA release in the cortex and in the striatum, and this effect appears to be mediated by a mechanism of action different from that modulating cortical TRACh.
Cholecystokinin-induced alterations in beta-cell sensitivity. Duration, specificity, and involvement of phosphoinositide metabolism.	Prior exposure of isolated perifused rat islets to the sulfated gut hormone cholecystokinin-8 (CCK-8S) dramatically increased their insulin secretory response to 7.5 mM glucose, 10 mM arginine, and 10 mM alpha-ketoisocaproate. In the case of glucose, the heightened secretory response was still apparent 60-80 min after CCK-8S removal from the perifusion medium. Prior exposure of perifused islets to arginine (10 mM), tolbutamide (25 microM), or forskolin (1.0 microM) did not sensitize them to 7.5 mM glucose. CCK-8S exposure increased 3H efflux from islets prelabeled with [3H]inositol, and the increase in 3H efflux was sustained after CCK-8S removal from the perifusion medium. The duration of this increase in 3H efflux paralleled the temporal characteristics of this sensitization process and was significantly attenuated by 25 microM asperlicin, a competitive antagonist of CCK binding to its membrane receptor. Arginine, tolbutamide, or forskolin treatment of islets did not increase 3H efflux from [3H]inositol-prelabeled islets. The results suggest that the turnover of membrane phosphoinositides induced by CCK-8S is largely responsible for this heightened state of secretory responsiveness to various stimulants. Second-messenger molecules generated during phosphoinositide turnover may be responsible for the phenomenon of sensitization displayed by islet tissue to CCK-8S addition.
Neuropeptide Y is an inhibitor of neural function in the myenteric plexus of the guinea-pig ileum.	Neuropeptide Y (NPY) reduced the resting tension of the myenteric plexus-longitudinal muscle preparation (MP-LM) of the guinea-pig ileum (GPI). NPY in a dose-dependent manner also reduced the neurally-mediated excitatory effect of cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK8) sulfated form on this preparation. However, NPY, at the concentration used in the study, did not modify the effect of exogenous acetylcholine (ACh). All these features were also shared by other inhibitory peptides, like somatostatin (SOM) and the enkephalin derivative FK 33-824. The preparation developed a degree of tachyphylaxis to the inhibitory effect of NPY more rapidly than it did to SOM. Moreover, the inhibitory effect of neuropeptide Y was of longer duration than the one seen for somatostatin. A faster metabolic rate might account for the lower development of tachyphylaxis to somatostatin. The presence of the opioid antagonist naloxone did not alter the inhibitory features of NPY or SOM. Therefore, the involvement of any endogenous opioid in the action of these two inhibitory peptides can be disregarded.
Effects of bethanechol and the octapeptide of cholecystokinin on colonic smooth muscle in the cat.	The aim of this study is to compare the action of the cholinergic agonist, bethanechol, with the action of the octapeptide of cholecystokinin (CCK-OP) on feline circular colonic smooth muscle membrane potential and isometric tension, using the double sucrose gap. Depolarization of the membrane greater than 10 mV by K+ or bethanechol increased tension and spontaneous spike activity. CCK-OP (10(-9) M) depolarized the membrane (6.1 +/- 1.3 mV) without an increase in tension or spike activity. Depolarization of the membrane by increasing [K+]o was associated with a decrease in the membrane resistance. The slow-wave duration (2.3 +/- 0.2 s) was unchanged by administration of K+ or bethanechol but was prolonged after increasing concentrations of CCK-OP. The maximum effect occurred at a 10(-10) M concentration of CCK-OP (4.5 +/- 0.4 s, P less than 0.01). At higher concentrations of CCK-OP (greater than 10(-10) M), the slow-wave pattern became disorganized. Addition of increasing concentrations of [K+]o or bethanechol, but not CCK-OP, stimulated a concentration-dependent increase in the maximum rate of rise (dV/dtmax) of an evoked spike potential. These studies suggest 1) bethanechol decreased the membrane potential without altering the slow-wave activity, whereas CCK-OP has a minimal effect on the membrane potential but distorted the slow-wave shape; 2) an increased amplitude of the spike and dV/dtmax of the spike were associated with an increase in phasic contractions after bethanechol or increased [K+]o; 3) the lack of an increase in the spike amplitude and the dV/dtmax to CCK-OP was associated with no increase in phasic contraction.
Cholecystokinin (CCK8) regulates glucagon, insulin, and somatostatin secretion from isolated rat pancreatic islets: interaction with glucose.	The effect of CCK8 on glucagon, insulin and somatostatin release and its interaction with glucose was studied in freshly isolated rat pancreatic islets. While glucose alone inhibited glucagon secretion [half-maximal effect (EC50) = 4.6 mM], glucose in the presence of 10 nM CCK8 increased glucagon release (EC50 = 6.9 mM). This effect of CCK8 was dose-dependent at 11.1 mM glucose (EC50 = 1.0 nM). The dose-response curve for glucose on insulin secretion was shifted to the left by 10 nM CCK8; the EC50 of glucose was 11.6 and 9.3 mM in the absence and presence of CCK8, respectively. Glucose alone enhanced somatostatin release; this glucose-induced release was further increased by 10 nM CCK8. Our data indicate that first, CCK8 is able to reverse the inhibitory effect of glucose on glucagon secretion, second, CCK8 sensitizes the beta cell to the insulinotropic effect of glucose, and third, CCK8 enhances the effect of glucose on somatostatin release.
The Ebner glands: a pancreatic-like gland secreting an acid lipase. Secretory regulation in vitro.	The lingual serous glands of rat tongue, the Ebner glands, secrete a potent acid lipase that acts in the stomach where it initiates the digestion of dietary fat. The factors affecting its secretion were studied 'in vitro' on Ebner slices. The lipolytic activity was measured in the incubation medium using tributyrine as substrate and by titration at pH: 5.4. Cholecystokinin (10(-9) M) and carbachol (10(-5) M) efficiently stimulated lipase secretion (3 fold over basal rate). The parasympathetic agent triggered secretion involving a calcium dependent system. Atropin (10(-4) M) blocked this cholinergic effect by about 40%. Lipase secretion was stimulated by epinephrine and isoproterenol. Propranolol (beta-antagonist) inhibited the adrenergic stimulation, while phentolamine was ineffective. The inhibitory effect of the selective beta 1-antagonist (Betaxolol) and the lack of effect of the selective beta 2-antagonist (ICI 118551) suggest the participation of beta 1-adrenoceptors in the secretion mechanism.
Cholecystokinin (CCK)-4 and CCK-8 stimulate islet hormone secretion in vivo in the pig.	It is known that cholecystokinin (CCK) stimulates islet hormone secretion under a variety of experimental conditions. Since CCK occurs in several different molecular forms, with 58, 39, 33, 12, 8, or 4 amino acid residues, the question has evolved as to which is the shortest active form of CCK. We therefore investigated the influences of the C-terminal octapeptide of CCK, CCK-8 (sulfated form) and of the C-terminal tetrapeptide, CCK-4, on the secretion of insulin, glucagon, and somatostatin from the pig pancreas in vivo by infusing each of the two peptides into the superior pancreatic artery. We found that islet hormone secretion increased promptly upon infusion of both CCK-8 and CCK-4. Thus, the secretion of insulin was stimulated from 51 +/- 12 to 295 +/- 70 microU/min during the first 2 min after injection of CCK-8 and from 40 +/- 12 to 240 +/- 78 microU/min after injection of CCK-4. Similarly, the secretion of glucagon was stimulated from 240 +/- 45 to 357 +/- 38 pg/min after CCK-8 and from 282 +/- 44 to 335 +/- 43 pg/min after CCK-4, and somatostatin secretion was stimulated from 112 +/- 7 to 226 +/- 12 pg/min by CCK-8 and from 105 +/- 11 to 246 +/- 16 pg/min by CCK-4. With regard to the efficiency to stimulate the secretion of these three islet hormones, CCK-8 and CCK-4 were equipotent. We conclude that in pigs, CCK-8 and CCK-4 both stimulate the secretion of insulin, glucagon, and somatostatin from the pancreas in vivo.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Pharmacological examination of cholecystokinin (CCK-8)-induced contractile activity in the rat isolated pylorus.	The actions of cholecystokinin (CCK) in the production of a satiety-like state have been suggested to be mediated via receptors for CCK which are located in the pylorus. We investigated the actions of CCK and other pharmacological agents upon the isolated rat pylorus in vitro. We used the change in isometric tension of the tissue preparation (contraction amplitude) as the measure of the effects of the pharmacological agents. Cholecystokinin COOH-terminal octapeptide (CCK-8) was observed to elicit contraction in a dose-dependent manner, with the half-maximal dose (ED50) in the vicinity of 1 nM. Rapid desensitization to CCK was observed. The contraction amplitude was atropine-independent, and was not significantly antagonized by a wide variety of other pharmacological agents. The Na+-channel blocker tetrodotoxin was without effect upon contractile amplitude, as was the K+-channel blocker 4-aminopyridine, except at very high concentrations. Neurotensin, bombesin, and the substance P and bombesin antagonist spantide all elicited contraction in the isolated tissue; neurotensin had a similar potency to CCK-8 and bombesin was 10-15-fold less potent than CCK-8. Unsulfated CCK-8 was at least 170-fold less potent than sulfated CCK-8 and tetragastrin was at least 500-fold less potent than CCK-8. These results suggest that pyloric CCK receptors, which appear to have a pharmacological profile typical of peripheral CCK receptors, may have a physiological role in the peptidergic control of gastric emptying in the rat.
Significance of Ca2+, Rb+ fluxes, of cAMP and cGMP for the CCK8-modulated insulin release.	In rat pancreatic islets the effects of cholecystokinin-8 (CCK8) on glucose-mediated insulin release, 45Ca2+ net uptake, 45Ca2+ efflux, 86Rb+ efflux, cAMP- and cGMP levels were studied. In the presence of a substimulatory glucose concentration (3 mM) CCK8 concentrations of up to 1 microM had no effect on insulin release, but CCK8 at 10 nM potentiated the stimulatory effect of glucose (11.1 mM). 10 nM CCK8 enhanced glucose-stimulated 45Ca2+ net uptake but was ineffective at substimulatory glucose levels. CCK8 had no effect on cAMP and cGMP levels in the presence of 11.1 mM glucose, CCK8 increased 86Rb+ (a measure of K+) in the presence of both 3 and 11.1 mM glucose. This effect was abolished when Ca2+ was omitted from the perifusion medium. CCK8 did not alter glucose (11.1 mM)-stimulated 45Ca2+ efflux rate. These data indicate that (1) CCK8 potentiates glucose-stimulated insulin secretion possibly via an effect on Ca2+ uptake, 2) by affecting Ca2+ uptake, CCK8 enhances K+ efflux, and 3) CCK8 does not mediate its effect via cAMP or cGMP. With respect to 86Rb+ efflux the mechanism of CCK8 action appears to be different from that of glucose. When the mechanism of CCK action on islets is compared with that on exocrine pancreas (data from others) there are similarities (importance of Ca2+ uptake and non-importance of cAMP and cGMP).
Effect of cholecystokinin-octapeptide on total parenteral nutrition-induced changes in hepatic bile secretion and composition in the rat.	These studies investigated the ability of twice-daily administration of cholecystokinin-octapeptide (CCK-8) to prevent changes in hepatic bile secretory function and bile composition resulting from total parenteral nutrition (TPN) in young, growing rats. Bile was collected from the common duct before and during i.v. infusion of sodium taurocholate following 7 days of TPN. TPN resulted in a reduction of hepatic bile flow, reduced bile molar cholesterol and phospholipid content, and reduction of the taurocholate secretory rate maximum (SRm) and bile salt-independent bile flow (BSIF). Rats treated with CCK-8 throughout their TPN retained high bile flows, BSIF, and SRm. CCK-8 at the dose used did not correct abnormalities in the hepatic bile composition or the magnitude of bile flow generated in response to i.v. taurocholate infusion. These findings suggest that the ability of CCK-8 to maintain high bile flows during TPN may have prophylactic relevance for prevention of TPN-induced gallbladder disease. However, these studies also suggest that a component of current TPN systems induces damage to hepatic bile metabolism and excretion that is additional to that due to the reduced stimulation of bile flow that accompanies elimination of oral food intake.
Antinociceptive action of cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK 8) and related peptides in rats and mice: effects of naloxone and peptidase inhibitors.	Cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK 8) produced significant antinociception in the tail immersion test in the rat, paw pressure test in the rat and acetylcholine-induced writhing test in the mouse after subcutaneous (s.c.) administration. In the hot plate test, CCK 8 (s.c.) showed antinociceptive activity if the latency to lick was used as the end point but if the latency to jump was recorded the antinociceptive effects were not evident. Cholecystokinin tetrapeptide (CCK 4) was shown to be antinociceptive in the writhing but not in the hot plate test after subcutaneous administration and appeared to be less potent than CCK 8 when tested under the same conditions. Antinociception induced by CCK 8 in the hot plate test (lick) could also be demonstrated after direct intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection and this observation was also made with the CCK-related peptide FMRF amide. Antinociception induced by CCK 8 (which did not appear to be associated with reduced locomotor activity) was evident 5 min after intraventricular injection and was maximal at 10 min, the effect lasting over a 30-45 min period. The antinociceptive effect of CCK 8 was antagonised by naloxone and was potentiated by simultaneous administration of the peptidase inhibitors bestatin, thiorphan and captopril.
Immunoneutralization of circulating pancreatic polypeptide and pancreatic secretion.	To determine the role of endogenous pancreatic polypeptide (PP) as a physiological inhibitor of pancreatic secretion, normal rabbit serum (control) or rabbit PP-antiserum was administered intravenously to dogs with chronic esophageal, gastric, and pancreatic fistulas. In all dogs tested, sham-feeding and ordinary feed with a meat meal resulted in a marked rise in the plasma level of immunoreactive PP that coincided with an increase in the exocrine pancreatic secretion of HCO3- and protein. After intravenous administration of PP antiserum, endogenous plasma PP was almost completely bound by infused antibodies to PP, whereas no such binding was detected after infusion of normal rabbit serum. In contrast, plasma gastrin remained unchanged both under basal and stimulated conditions. Immunoneutralization of PP, released endogenously, failed significantly to affect gastric acid and pancreatic protein responses to sham-feeding and the pancreatic HCO3- and protein responses to feeding a meat meal in chronic pancreatic fistula dogs. However, the PP antiserum abolished, in part, the inhibitory effect of exogenous PP on pancreatic secretion stimulated by exogenous hormones. We conclude that endogenous PP is not a physiological inhibitor of exocrine pancreatic secretion, as has been suggested previously.
Cholecystokinin decreases sucrose intake in chronic decerebrate rats.	The capacity of chronic decerebrate rats to reduce their intake of an orally infused sucrose solution in response to peripherally administered cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) was investigated. The sucrose intake of both 24-h food-deprived chronic decerebrate rats and pair-fed control rats was reduced by CCK-8 relative to the intake after desulfated CCK-8. The intake-reducing effect of CCK-8 in the chronic decerebrate rat provides compelling evidence that the caudal brain stem is of sufficient neural complexity to mediate this response. Although others have hypothesized that connections between the caudal brain stem and forebrain are required to mediate this effect(s) of CCK-8, our results demonstrate that these pathways are not necessary.
Sulfated cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK8) failed to modulate basal or dopamine-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity in the rat striatum.	1. In view of previously demonstrated modulatory effects of CCK8 on DA-sensitive adenylate cyclase activity in the nucleus accumbens, we examined the effects of this neuropeptide in the striatum. 2. Adenylate cyclase activity was measured by conversion of alpha-[32P]ATP into [32P]cAMP. 3. CCK8, when added to the adenylate cyclase assay in concentrations up to 100 microM, failed to significantly alter, either positively or negatively, basal or DA-stimulated (30 or 100 microM) adenylate cyclase activity. Similar results were obtained in the presence of various peptidase inhibitors. 4. Under the assay conditions employed in these experiments, it would appear that there is no effect of CCK8 on DA-sensitive adenylate cyclase in the striatum.
Mechanical properties and sensitivity to CCK of vagal gastric slowly adapting mechanoreceptors.	Sixty single afferent fibers with endings in the stomach wall were isolated from the cervical vagus of urethan-anesthetized Sprague-Dawley rats. All the fibers, most of which were spontaneously active, increased their discharge after gastric distension or during spontaneous contractions of the stomach. Because of this and the characteristic dynamic and static features of their response to inflation and deflation, they were identified as in-series tension receptors. Certain features of their responses, previously suspected from studies on reflex modulation of vagal efferent fibers or brain stem neurons, were directly confirmed. These included a broad range of mechanical thresholds and spontaneous firing frequencies that were correlated and a sensitivity only to dynamic stretch and active contraction in the highest threshold endings. The tension receptors could also be activated by circulating cholecystokinin, an effect unrelated to changes in intraluminal pressure and hence gastric wall tension, suggesting that there may be humoral modulation of visceral sensory signals that might be relevant to several behavioral situations, such as food intake regulation.
CCK-8 decreases food intake and gastric emptying after pylorectomy or pyloroplasty.	Specific binding sites for cholecystokinin (CCK) in the gastrointestinal tract of the adult rat are limited to the gastroduodenal region and are concentrated in the circular muscle of the pyloric sphincter. To determine the relationship of these pyloric muscle binding sites to the inhibition by CCK of food intake and of gastric emptying, these inhibitory effects of CCK were investigated in rats that had the pyloric sphincter surgically removed or that had the pyloric sphincter contractile mechanism damaged by a pyloroplasty procedure. CCK-8 decreased food intake and gastric emptying significantly in rats after pylorectomy or pyloroplasty. This demonstrates that an intact pyloric sphincter is not necessary for these inhibitory effects in rats. Because we found autoradiographic evidence for CCK receptors near the gastroduodenal anastomosis, however, the results suggest either that these receptors mediated the inhibition of food intake and emptying by CCK-8 or that these effects depend on CCK receptors in other locations.
A comparison of cholecystokinin-induced changes in gastric emptying and feeding in rats.	We have compared the abilities of the cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) to delay gastric emptying and to influence feeding under similar experimental conditions in the rat. The effect of CCK-8 on gastric emptying was assessed in 6-h-deprived rats receiving 10-ml intragastric test loads of 0.15 M saline or 15% (wt/vol) sucrose. Analysis of half-emptying times indicated that intraperitoneal administration of CCK-8 in doses of 1.4-22.4 micrograms/kg produced a dose-dependent retardation of emptying of both saline and nutrient. Lower doses of CCK-8, 0.01 and 0.1 micrograms/kg, had no effect on gastric emptying. The effect of CCK-8 on feeding was assessed in normally feeding rats tested under the same experimental conditions used in the gastric emptying studies. Doses of CCK-8 capable of retarding gastric emptying also suppressed eating in a dose-dependent manner. These findings provide necessary correlational support for the hypothesis that the satiety produced by CCK-8 may be mediated by inhibition of gastric emptying. However, a further quantitative analysis of the correspondence of the gastric emptying and feeding effects of CCK-8 suggest that retardation of emptying cannot account entirely for the satiety effect of the peptide.
Nutritive expectancies mediate cholecystokinin's suppression-of-intake effect.	In previous studies of cholecystokinin's (CCK's) effect on consumption, physical features (e.g., taste, texture, and odor) of test meals were confounded with the nutritive expectancies elicited by those features. To separately assess the role of these two factors in supporting CCK's suppression-of-intake effect, we varied the caloric expectancies elicited by a flavored test solution, while holding constant its actual caloric density, as well as all other unconditioned stimulus features. On alternate days for a 12-day period, hungry rats drank grape or orange Kool-Aid (noncaloric) mixed with a caloric 5% ethanol solution; on the other days, they drank the alternate flavor mixed with plain water. In a subsequent choice test between the flavored solutions without ethanol, the ethanol-associated flavor (Ef) was preferred over the water-associated flavor (Wf). Two days later, the rats were injected with either cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8; ip, 2 micrograms/kg) or isotonic saline, and then given access to their Ef or their Wf for 1 hr. Consumption of the Ef was suppressed by CCK-8; intake of the Wf was unaffected. These results suggest that CCK-8's effectiveness in suppressing intake of a test meal may be related not to the unconditioned stimulus features of that meal but to the nutritive expectations elicited by those features.
Biological effects of a proglumide derivative as cholecystokinin antagonist in conscious dogs.	In conscious dogs we studied the effects of a new cholecystokinin (CCK) antagonist (coded CR 1505) on CCK8-stimulated exocrine pancreatic secretion and release of pancreatic polypeptide (PP). Graded doses of CCK8 (25-400 ng kg-1h-1) were infused i.v. Experiments were repeated against a background infusion of CR 1505 at different doses (0.1, 1 and 10 mg kg-1h-1). The lowest dose of CR 1505 had no biological effects. However, at the upper two doses the compound significantly inhibited the CCK8-stimulated PP release. Furthermore, a significant inhibition of exocrine pancreatic protein secretion was observed with 10 mg kg-1h-1 of CR 1505 (P less than 0.05). The results suggest that CR 1505 could be a useful tool in defining the physiological role of CCK in vivo.
Cholecystokinin, behavioral tolerance and tumor-induced anorexia.	Cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8, 5 micrograms/kg, IP) was injected daily, for two 4-day periods, into rats bearing the Walker 256 carcinosarcoma (TB) and non-tumor bearing (NTB) control animals. All animals were on a 20 hr food and water deprivation schedule and monitored for food and water intake and bodyweight for 4 hr daily. Food intake was significantly reduced by the daily administration of CCK. Behavioral tolerance to CCK was not observed in either the NTB or TB rats. These results indicate that the parameters describing the phenomenon of behavioral tolerance to CCK are yet to be clearly defined and that peptides other than CCK may underlie the mechanism primarily responsible for producing anorexia associated with cancer.
Cholecystokinin octapeptide, proglumide, and passive avoidance in rats.	Rats were conditioned to avoid a darkened chamber using electric footshock (0.25 mA for 2 sec). Cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8), a CCK-8 antagonist proglumide, or 0.9% NaCl solution was injected immediately following the footshock to study the effect upon passive avoidance behavior. The passive avoidance behavior was observed one day following the conditioning footshock and treatment. CCK-8 produced a reduction of the passive avoidance latency of rats at doses ranging from 30 micrograms/kg to 500 micrograms/kg. Proglumide (5 mg/kg) was able to block the CCK-8 effect on rat passive avoidance conditioning. Proglumide by itself at a dose of 2 mg/kg decreased the latency to enter the darkened chamber. Endogenous CCK-8 activity may be involved in passive avoidance conditioning in rats.
Modulation of memory processing by cholecystokinin: dependence on the vagus nerve.	Allowing mice access to food immediately after an aversive training session enhances memory retention. Cholecystokinin-octapeptide (CCK-8), which is a gastrointestinal hormone released during feeding, also enhances memory retention when administered intraperitoneally. This memory-enhancing effect of CCK-8 is blocked when the vagus nerve is cut, indicating that CCK-8 may produce its effect on memory retention by activating ascending fibers in the vagus nerve. Thus, CCK-8, a peripherally acting peptide, may mediate the memory-enhancing effects of feeding.
Ingestive behavior of rats with ibotenic acid lesions of the dorsomedial hypothalamus.	Rats with electrolytic or kainic acid (KA) lesions of the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus area (DMHA-L) are hypophagic, hypodipsic, and have a reduced body weight (BW) compared with controls. In the present study, male Sprague-Dawley rats received bilateral ibotenic acid (IBO) lesions of the DMHA (3 micrograms in 0.3 microliter) or sham (S) operations. During the next 32 days the IBO DMHA-L rats showed reduced (P less than 0.01) food and water intake, BW, and linear growth (P less than 0.03), although having a normal Lee obesity index. After a 24-h fast both groups became hyperphagic (P less than 0.01) with the DMHA-L group eating the most (P less than 0.01) during the 1st h; lost BW was regained at the same rate. In the absence of food, DMHA-L rats took less (P less than 0.01) water (data normalized) than S rats. During 24 h of water deprivation, both groups ate similar amounts of food (data normalized); following deprivation the groups were hyperdipsic. Both groups increased their food intake when given 300 mg/kg of 2-deoxy-D-glucose, which contrasts rats with electrolytic or KA DMHA-L rats. Both groups decreased their food intake when given cholecystokinin (3 micrograms/kg ip), which contrasts rats with electrolytic DMHA-L. The DMHA-L rats were not deficient in plasma glucose, insulin, growth hormone, or plasma Na+ and K+. Histology revealed many, but not all neurons, were destroyed in the DMN after IBO. The data indicate that IBO, electrolytic, or KA lesions of the DMHA produce similar but not identical physiological changes.
Effects of kappa opiate agonists, cholecystokinin and bombesin on intake of diets varying in carbohydrate-to-fat ratio in rats.	Effects of the dietary carbohydrate-to-fat ratio on opiate-stimulated eating and on naloxone-, cholecystokinin- and bombesin-suppressed eating were examined. Rats were fed either a high carbohydrate (cornstarch) diet (68% of energy from carbohydrate and 12% from fat), an intermediate diet (40% carbohydrate and 40% fat) or a high fat (corn oil and lard) diet (3% carbohydrate and 77% fat). Other rats self-selected from the high carbohydrate and high fat diets. Subcutaneous administration of naloxone, an opiate antagonist, generally suppressed intake of the high fat diet to a greater extent than intake of the high carbohydrate diet. Neither cholecystokinin octapeptide nor bombesin (administered intraperitoneally) exerted preferential suppression of fat intake. The opiate agonists ketocyclazocine and butorphanol tartrate administered subcutaneously at 1000 h preferentially, although not exclusively, stimulated intake of the high fat diet in a dose-dependent manner during the 6-h feeding trial. Repeated daily subcutaneous injections of butorphanol tartrate caused rats to consume more than 50% of their daily intake during the 6-h period postinjection; intake during the normal night feeding period was suppressed to maintain total daily intake equal to that of vehicle-injected rats. We conclude that stimulation of the opioid feeding system contributes to the overeating often associated with consumption of a high fat diet.
Cholecystokinin-octapeptide-induced hypothermia in rats: dose-effect and structure-effect relationships, effect of ambient temperature, pharmacological interactions and tolerance.	Subcutaneous injection of cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) (0.005-1.25 mg/kg) elicited dose-dependent hypothermia in rats. The threshold of the response was between 0.01 and 0.05 mg/kg and the dose-response curve levelled off at doses larger than 0.2-0.5 mg/kg. Warm and cold ambient temperatures decreased and increased the response, respectively. Pretreatment with capsaicin, morphine, naloxone, atropine, haloperidol or propranolol did not affect the response to CCK-8, whereas pretreatment with phenoxybenzamine and a large dose of proglumide, an antagonist for CCK-receptors, attenuated the hypothermia. It seems that neither capsaicin-sensitive thermal and non-thermal afferents, nor opiate mechanisms are involved in the response, but alpha-adrenoceptors might be of some importance in the hypothermia. Non-sulphated-CCK-8, the C-terminal tetrapeptide and hexapeptide, [D-Ala4]-CCK-8 and [D-Met6]-CCK-8 were ineffective. Chronic treatment with CCK-8 resulted in the development of tolerance to the thermoregulatory effect, while the hypothermic responses to apomorphine and capsaicin were not affected. It seems that the tolerance cannot be attributed to conditioned homeostatic reactions.
Autoradiographic demonstration of gastrin binding sites in rat gastric mucosa.	The location of 125I-iodotyrosyl gastrin I binding sites in rat gastric mucosa was studied. Peptide specificity was demonstrated by competitive binding studies through the addition of a large dose of cold human gastrin I or cholecystokinin-octapeptide. Autoradiography of the stomach tissue was carried out by freeze-drying, embedding in Epon, wet-sectioning with ethylene glycol, and dry-mounting the emulsion film by means of the wire-loop method to prevent loss of the labeled substance. Specific binding sites for gastrin were found on parietal and chief cells, whereas few binding sites were seen on the surface mucous or mucous neck cells. Binding sites on the parietal cells were dispersed in the cytoplasm, while those on the chief cells were found near the basal plasma membrane.
Contractile responses of canine gastric muscle to peptides of the cholecystokinin group.	1 Mechanical activity was recorded in isolated muscle preparations from the circular and longitudinal layers of different regions of canine stomach (16 dogs). At least eight muscle strips were excised from each stomach: longitudinal (lo) and circular (ci) strips from fundus (Fu), corpus (Co) and antrum (An), and circular strips from the inner and outer portion of the pyloric ring. 2 Cholecystokinin 33 (CCK 33), cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK 8), caerulein and pentagastrin produced the same pattern of responses, with differences in their potencies: caerulein was 10 times more potent than CCK 8, and CCK eight to ten times more potent than CCK 33 and pentagastrin. 3 The most characteristic effect of the CCK peptides was an increase in frequency of the phasic activity of Fu-ci, Co and An preparations (threshold 10(-10) mol/l for CCK 8), usually combined with weak or moderate increases of amplitude. 4 Slight tonic activations were observed in Fu-lo, Co-lo and An-lo (around 10% of the ACH maximum), and stronger tonic activations in Fu-ci and Co-ci (around 50% of the ACH maximum). 5 No responses to CCK were seen in pyrolic preparations. 6 Experiments with receptor antagonists (adrenoceptors, muscarinic and histamine receptors), and with tetrodotoxin indicate that the peptides act by a direct effect on smooth muscle.
An analysis of cholecystokinin-induced increase in acetylcholine output from cerebral cortex of the rat.	The effect of colecystokinin (CCK-8) on the release of ACh from the cerebral cortex was studied in urethane-anaesthetized rats with the cortical cup technique. The increase in output of ACh brought about by the administration of CCK-8 1.5 micrograms/kg (i.p.) was prevented by pretreatment with haloperidol (1 mg/kg i.p.) and by lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis and substantia nigra but it was reduced only slightly by bilateral vagotomy. Conversely, none of the treatments abolished the decrease in output of ACh brought about by CCK-8 at a dose of 10 micrograms/kg (i.p.). Local injection of CCK-8 into the nucleus basalis had no effect. Therefore, CCK-8 appears to increase cortical cholinergic activity by indirectly stimulating the cholinergic neurones of the nucleus basalis through dopaminergic neurones.
Receptor-mediated internalization and secretion of cholecystokinin into rat pancreatic duct fluid.	We measured cholecystokinin (CCK) in pancreatic duct secretions (PDS) after infusion of different amounts of CCK-8 (the C-terminal octapeptide of cholecystokinin) into rats. Injection of 23, 46, and 92 ng of CCK-8 increased immunoreactive cholecystokinin in PDS by 3-, 13-, and 28-fold above basal levels within 30 min. Continuous intravenous infusion of CCK-8 (50 ng/min) into rats for 30 min, followed by a 30-min rest period, and then a final infusion of peptide for another 30 min increased CCK in PDS only during the final period by 12-fold to 500 pg/30 min. Neither gastrin nor oxidized CCK-8 were detected in PDS after intravenous infusion of each peptide. Administration of proglumide (ip), a CCK receptor antagonist, during continuous CCK infusion significantly reduced immunoreactive CCK levels in PDS to 2% of the control group (P less than or equal to 0.01). CCK was also rapidly internalized into dispersed pancreatic acinar cells in a temperature-dependent fashion, and this process was inhibited by proglumide. The above data suggest that CCK in PDS reflects a peptide-specific process that is receptor mediated. We propose that circulating cholecystokinin binds to specific receptors on pancreatic acinar cells, is internalized, and is then secreted into pancreatic duct fluid.
Cholecystokinin and gastric distension activate oxytocinergic cells in rat hypothalamus.	Systemic administration of cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) prompts an abrupt increase in circulating levels of oxytocin (OXY) but not vasopressin (VP) in rats. The present study determined whether CCK-8 selectively stimulated OXY-secreting neurons in the hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus of pentobarbital-anesthetized male rats. Antidromically identified neurosecretory neurons were categorized into putative OXY- and VP-secreting cells on the basis of their firing patterns and response to peripheral baroreceptor activation. Of 36 OXY-secreting cells studied, 30 demonstrated a 50-200% increase in firing frequency within 2 min of administering CCK-8 by intravenous or intraperitoneal injection, whereas none of the eight VP-secreting neurons studied was activated. In related experiments, 4-10 ml of air were used to inflate an intragastric balloon in rats; 20 of 22 OXY-secreting neurons displayed an abrupt and readily reversible increase in firing frequency, whereas only 2 of 17 VP-secreting cells were activated. Gastric distension similarly elevated plasma OXY levels in unanesthetized rats with indwelling gastric cannulas. Together with previous findings that the effects of CCK-8 on OXY release were attenuated by gastric vagotomy, these observations clearly demonstrate the existence of a sensitive neural link between the stomach and the neurohypophysis in the rat.
Aging and pancreatic exocrine function: studies in conscious male rats.	Changes in pancreatic exocrine function in young (6- and 12-month-old) and old (24- to 27-month-old) male Fischer (F-344) rats were examined. Rats were prepared with cannulae draining bile and pancreatic juice separately and with duodenal and right jugular vein cannulae. Experiments were conducted between the third and the seventh postoperative day in conscious rats. Bile and pancreatic juice were returned to the intestine during both the recovery period and between experiments. Pancreatic responses to endogenous [bile-pancreatic juice (BPJ) diversion from the intestine] and exogenous stimulation [0.086, 0.432, and 1.728 nmol/kg secretin and 0.033, 0.167, and 0.667 nmol/kg cholecystokinin-octapeptide (CCK-8)] were determined. Basal secretions of fluid, bicarbonate, and protein were not affected by aging. The pancreatic responses of fluid and bicarbonate secretion to BPJ diversion or secretin were unaffected by aging. However, the increment of protein secretion in response to BPJ diversion and the largest dose of CCK-8 was attenuated in old rats. It appears the duct cell function is hardly affected by aging, but that the reserve capacity for protein secretion in response to stimulation may decrease in old rats.
The agonist-sensitive calcium pool in the pancreatic acinar cell. Activation of plasma membrane Ca2+ influx mechanism.	The purposes of the present study were to investigate the characteristics and regulation of Ca2+ influx across the plasma membrane in pancreatic acini and to demonstrate the role of this Ca2+ influx in the mechanism of reloading of the agonist-sensitive Ca2+ pool. In pancreatic acini, depleted of intracellular Ca2+ by stimulation with carbachol in the absence of extracellular Ca2+, 25 microM LaCl3 inhibited the increase in free cytosolic Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) and reloading of the agonist-sensitive pool that occurred with the addition of extracellular CaCl2 to the medium. LaCl3 also inhibited the increase in cellular 45Ca2+ uptake that occurred during agonist stimulation and its termination but not cellular 45Ca2+ uptake into unstimulated acini. In acini depleted of intracellular Ca2+, increased cellular Ca2+ influx and reloading of the agonist-sensitive pool occurred even if extracellular CaCl2 was added 10 min after the termination of agonist action. Maximal reloading was independent of the extracellular Ca2+ concentration between 0.5 and 2.0 mM CaCl2. However, the time to maximal reloading was longer at lower extracellular Ca2+ concentrations. These results demonstrate a plasma membrane Ca2+ influx mechanism in the pancreatic acinar cell that is activated during cell stimulation. This transport remains activated as long as the agonist-sensitive pool is not completely loaded with Ca2+ suggesting that the Ca2+ influx mechanism is regulated by the quantity of Ca2+ in the agonist-sensitive pool. The activation of this Ca2+ transport mechanism functions to allow Ca2+ influx across the plasma membrane and Ca2+ reloading of the agonist-sensitive pool. Furthermore, these results suggest that during reloading Ca2+ crosses the plasma membrane into the cytosol before entering the agonist-sensitive pool.
Cholecystokinin octapeptide, proglumide, and conditioned taste avoidance in rats.	Past research has shown that large (pharmacological) doses of cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) can influence conditioned behavior in rats. In the present study rats were allowed to locate and drink from a drinking tube that contained a sucrose solution. Following 30 sec exposure to the sucrose, intraperitoneal injections of NaCl or CCK-8 were given, with several variables measured 24 hr later. CCK-8 (100 micrograms/kg) was found to increase the latency to begin drinking the sucrose. It was also found that CCK-8 (10 micrograms/kg and 100 micrograms/kg) reduced the amount of sucrose consumption following the pairing of sucrose exposure and CCK-8. In addition, CCK-8 (100 micrograms/kg) reduced the amount of time rats spent in the area of the conditioning apparatus where the sucrose was located. These results are consistent with past research which found that CCK-8 can produce conditioned taste avoidance in rats. These results suggest that pharmacological doses of CCK-8 can act as an aversive stimulus during conditioning. Proglumide was found to block all of the effects produced by CCK-8 while producing little effect by itself.
Peripheral injections of bombesin and cholecystokinin affect dietary self-selection in rats.	Patterns of dietary self-selection were examined in adult female rats following peripheral injections of either bombesin (BBS) (6, 10, 14 and 16 micrograms) or cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) (0.75, 1.5, 2.25, and 3.0 micrograms). Animals were food deprived for 18 hours and then offered three isocaloric diets (protein, carbohydrate, and fat) following injections of peptides. Each subject received each of 4 doses of both peptides in a within-subjects design. All doses of BBS decreased total food intake and fat intake 30 minutes following injections. Also at this time period the two highest doses suppressed carbohydrate intake, while protein was unaffected. Cumulative intake at one hour revealed that total intake remained suppressed. The two highest doses continued to suppress carbohydrate intake, while only the 14 micrograms dose continued to suppress fat intake. Additionally protein was now significantly suppressed by all doses. The three highest doses of CCK-8 produced a decrease in total food intake and fat intake 30 minutes after injections. By one hour, only total intake remained suppressed but only with administration of the highest dose. Results are interpreted as providing support for the notion that BBS and CCK are physiological satiety signals and that they maintain unique functions in regulating food intake.
Behavioral effect of cholecystokinin octapeptide in vagotomized rats.	Cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) was administered intracerebroventricularly (icv) or subcutaneously (sc) into subdiaphragmatically vagotomized and sham-operated rats, and the behavioral effects were quantified by an open-field test. Intracerebroventricularly injection of CCK-8 decreased locomotion and rearing to the same extent in both vagotomized and sham-operated rats, while sc injection produced behavioral changes only in sham-operated rats but not in vagotomized ones. The results indicate that CCK-8 affects both central and peripheral receptors, and the vagal nerve may be the major pathway causing behavioral effects from the visceral organs to the brain.
Opposite effects of sulfated cholecystokinin on DA-sensitive adenylate cyclase in two areas of the rat nucleus accumbens.	The nucleus accumbens of the rat receives a mixed DA/CCK8 innervation in its posterior part while its anterior part is innervated by distinct DA and CCK8 fibres. In vitro, the addition of CCK8 (0.3-1 microM) potentiated the activating effect of DA (10-30 microM) on adenylate cyclase in tissue homogenates obtained from the posterior part of the nucleus accumbens, whilst this activating effect was reduced by CCK8 in the anterior part. These results suggest the existence of two types of regulation of the D1 receptor by CCK8 depending on the identity (mixed or not mixed) of their innervating fibres.
Cholecystokinin-induced suppression of locomotion is attenuated in capsaicin pretreated rats.	Cholecystokinin (CCK), a peptide found in both gastrointestinal endocrine cells and neurons, suppresses food intake and reduces locomotor behavior when injected systemically. Both the locomotor and ingestive effects of CCK are abolished by subdiaphragmatic vagotomy. Pretreatment of adult rats with capsaicin attenuates the reduced locomotor activity and reduced food intake which normally occurs following injection of exogenous cholecystokinin. Since capsaicin damages or destroys small-diameter, unmyelinated, sensory neurons, including vagal sensory fibers, these data support the interpretation that both CCK-induced suppression of food intake and CCK-induced reduction of locomotion are mediated by fine, unmyelinated sensory neurons.
Dynamic analysis of secretagogue-induced amylase secretion from rat pancreatic acini studied by perifusion system.	A perifusion system was applied for the study on stimulus-enzyme secretion coupling in dispersed pancreatic acini. The system is highly simple, preserves the acini up to more than 3 hr, and makes feasible clear-cut examination on the time course of enzyme secretion caused by secretagogues. Caerulein (10(-9) M) and carbamylcholine (10(-5) M) caused a biphasic amylase secretory pattern consisting of an initial burst secretion and a sustained one. Caerulein induced a persistent amylase release even after cessation of the stimulation, while carbamylcholine-stimulated amylase release returned to basal levels. Atropine inhibited completely carbamylcholine-stimulated amylase release and the successive stimulation by caerulein evoked the amylase secretion with a decreased initial burst secretion. In calcium free medium, caerulein and carbamylcholine induced only a slight secretion, particularly in the sustained secretion phase and a gradual increase occurred with the addition of calcium.
Minimized tolerance to the suppressive effects of CCK8 on operant responding.	This study was designed to determine if tolerance to cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK8) could be prevented or minimized by spacing injections, and if an appetitive operant conditioning paradigm provides a sensitive baseline to test the effects of CCK8. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were trained to press a lever for water according to a fixed-interval 60-sec schedule of reinforcement. After response rate stabilized, rats were given a series of CCK8 (0.04 mg/kg, ip) injections spaced several days apart. The first injection of CCK8 produced complete response suppression during the 30-min test session, while later injections produced partial or complete suppression. Thus, tolerance to CCK8, as measured by operant response rate, may be minimized if injections are appropriately spaced.
The stimulatory effect of cholecystokinin implanted in the medial preoptic area on luteinizing hormone secretion in the ovariectomized estrogen-primed rat.	The effect of implantation of cholecystokinin(CCK)-8 into the medial preoptic area (MPO) through the chronically implanted guide cannula on the release of LH was examined in the ovariectomized estradiol-primed rat. An inner cannula with CCK-8 at the tip, as well as an empty inner cannula as the control, was implanted into the MPO at 12.00 h. Blood samples were obtained at 11.00, 12.00, 16.00, 18.00 and 20.00 h, and serum concentration of LH was measured by RIA. There was no significant fluctuation over time in the mean serum LH values for each sampling time in the group of animals implanted with empty cannulae in the MPO. In the group of animals implanted with CCK-8 into the MPO, the fluctuation of the mean LH values over time was significant, with a marked and significant elevation of LH values peaking at 16.00 h. It was strongly suggested that CCK-8 was capable of stimulating LH-RH release, acting at the MPO.
Facilitation of GABA release by cholecystokinin and caerulein in rat cerebral cortex.	Cholecystokinin octapeptide and its analogue, caerulein, facilitated the K+-evoked release of 14C-GABA from tissue slices of rat parietal cortex. The effect of caerulein was maximal at 1 nM where an enhancement of 36% was produced. Cholecystokinin octapeptide gave rise to a similar maximal enhancement (29%), but was two orders of magnitude less potent. The enhancement of 14C-GABA release by caerulein was reversed by proglumide, a putative competitive antagonist at the cholecystokinin receptor. The possibility that the cholecystokinin-induced facilitation of GABA release in the cortex is involved in the anticonvulsant properties of cholecystokinin-like peptides is discussed.
The sites of action of cholecystokinin in decreasing meal size in pigs.	The synthetic octapeptide of cholecystokinin (CCK-8) was infused at the rate of 67 ng/kg-minute into the jugular vein, carotid artery, portal vein, gastric branch of the splenic artery, and aortic artery both craniad and caudad to the origins of the cranial mesenteric and coeliac arteries of 39 young female pigs. Jugular, carotid and cranial erotic infusions resulted in significant reduction of meal size respectively to 65, 67 and 71% of control meal size (p less than 0.05). Gastric artery infusion resulted in a significant increase of meal size to 122% of control meal size (p less than 0.05). Portal vein and caudal aortic artery infusions had no significant effects on meal size. The results were interpreted as indicating a major site of action of CCK in reducing meal size in the bed of the cranial mesenteric or coeliac arteries, but excluding the stomach and liver.
Naloxone suppression of food and water intake and cholecystokinin reduction of feeding is attenuated in weanling rats with dorsomedial hypothalamic lesions.	In Experiment 1, sham operated (SCON) and dorsomedial hypothalamic nuclei (DMN) lesioned (L) rats were given saline or naloxone (0.1, 1.0 or 2.0 mg/kg) just prior to the onset of the dark cycle, lights out. Compared to saline injections, naloxone at all doses suppressed the cumulative food intake of the SCON during the second and third hr of measurement. Naloxone was without significant effect on the food intake of DMNL rats. Similar results were obtained in Experiment 2, except that naloxone at 2.0 mg/kg significantly suppressed the DMNL rats' food intake by the fourth hr of measurement. Cumulative water intake of both groups was significantly suppressed by naloxone in both experiments but its effects appeared to be attenuated in the DMNL group. In a preliminary trial cholecystokinin octapeptide (3.0 and 6.0 micrograms/kg) given at the onset of the dark cycle significantly suppressed the food intake of the SCON group but had no significant effect on the DMNL rats. The possibility exists that the reduced food intake and lower body weight of DMNL rats may partially result from damage to an opioid system. The data also tentatively suggest that DMN may play a role in cholecystokinin-induced satiety.
Neuroendocrine evaluation of CCK-peptides on dopaminergic function in man.	CCK-33 (225 Ivy Dog Units iv) antagonized the growth hormone response to the dopamine receptor agonist, apomorphine HCl (0.5 mg sc), and increased basal prolactin secretion in normal male volunteers. A stress mediated prolactin effect could not be excluded. CCK-8 (5 ug iv) antagonized the growth hormone response to apomorphine but had no effect on basal prolactin or plasma homovanillic acid. Ceruletide (0.3 ug/kg im) had no effect on basal prolactin or apomorphine-induced growth hormone secretion. CCK-33, CCK-8 and ceruletide had no effect on basal growth hormone secretion which suggests that they do not inhibit the release of growth hormone. These findings are compatible with an inhibitory effect of CCK-33 and CCK-8 (or fragments) on dopaminergic function in man, at least in the hypothalamic-pituitary axis and point to a simple way to study the effect of peptides on dopaminergic function in man including those which may not cross the blood brain barrier.
Subcortical limbic 3H-N-propylnorapomorphine binding sites are markedly modulated by cholecystokinin-8 in vitro.	By means of the dopamine (DA) agonist radio ligand 3H-N-propylnorapomorphine (3H-NPA) the effects of cholecystokinin-8 (CCK-8) have been evaluated in vitro on the binding characteristics of the DA agonist sites in membrane preparations from the subcortical limbic forebrain containing mainly nucleus accumbens and tuberculum olfactorium. It was shown that CCK-8 (10(-8) M) can produce a 40% increase in the KD value of the 3H-NPA binding sites and a significant 10% increase in the Bmax values of these sites. It is therefore suggested that there exist marked receptor-receptor interactions between the CCK-8 binding sites and DA agonist binding sites in the limbic forebrain. On the basis of these findings and in view of the fact that CCK peptides are comodulators in certain types of mesolimbic DNA neurons but cannot modulate DA release in these DNA synapses, the hypothesis is introduced that the presence of DA comodulators such as CCK-8 in the DA synapses makes possible a heterostatic regulation of the synapse. Thus, by means of receptor-receptor interactions, peptide comodulators may change the set point of the main transmission line without inducing homeostatic feedback responses on synthesis and release of the main transmitter, opening up a new way to modulate chemical transmission in general.
Involvement of the noradrenergic afferents from the nucleus tractus solitarii to the supraoptic nucleus in oxytocin release after peripheral cholecystokinin octapeptide in the rat.	Activation of abdominal vagal afferents by peripheral injection of cholecystokinin octapeptide induces oxytocin release into the circulation. To test the hypothesis that cholecystokinin increases oxytocin release via activation of noradrenergic afferents from the brainstem, we injected rats with 5-amino-2,4-dihydroxy-alpha-methylphenylethylamine, a selective neurotoxin to noradrenergic fibres, into a lateral cerebral ventricle. The neurotoxin treatment reduced the noradrenaline content in the hypothalamus by 75% and reduced the oxytocin secretion in response to cholecystokinin by over 90%. In separate experiments, the neurotoxin was injected unilaterally in the vicinity of the supraoptic nucleus to test whether direct noradrenergic afferents to the supraoptic nucleus are involved in the response to cholecystokinin. The injection reduced the immunoreactivity for dopamine beta-hydroxylase in the supraoptic nucleus and significantly decreased the number of the supraoptic neurons expressing Fos-like protein after cholecystokinin but not after hypertonic saline. In further experiments, rhodamine-conjugated latex microspheres were injected into the supraoptic nucleus to retrogradely label afferent neurons, and the brains were processed with double-immunohistochemistry for tyrosine hydroxylase and Fos-like protein. In the C2/A2 but not the C1/A1 region of the brainstem, cholecystokinin increased the expression of Fos-like protein in the population of retrogradely-labelled catecholaminergic cells. In the C2/A2 region, the majority of retrogradely labelled cells expressing Fos-like protein after cholecystokinin were catecholaminergic. We conclude that noradrenergic afferents from the A2 but not from the A1 region of the brainstem to the hypothalamus mediate, at least in part, oxytocin release following cholecystokinin.
Effect of local cholecystokinin-8 administration on extracellular levels of amino acids and glycolytic products monitored by in vivo microdialysis in the fronto-parietal cortex of the rat.	The effects of local cholecystokinin-8 (CCK-8) administration on cortical extracellular levels of amino acids, catecholamines and metabolism products were studied in the halothane anaesthetized rat by in vivo microdialysis. CCK-8 (10 microM), administrated via a microdialysis probe, produced a significant increase in the levels of aspartate, glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), but not of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), homovanillic acid (HVA), lactate and pyruvate, which were simultaneously monitored. The increase in aspartate and glutamate levels produced by CCK-8 was about 3-4-fold. The effect of CCK-8 on aspartate levels was significantly inhibited by the CCKB antagonist, L-365,260 (20 mg kg-1, s.c.), but not by the CCKA antagonist, L-364,718 (20 mg kg-1, s.c.). In contrast, the increase in glutamate levels was inhibited by both L-365,260 and L-364,718. GABA was slightly, but significantly increased (approximately 30%), by local CCK-8 and was inhibited by both CCK antagonists. The present results show that CCK-8 exerts a strong modulatory action on both aspartate and glutamate release in rat cortex. While the effect of CCK-8 on aspartate is selectively mediated via CCKB receptor subtype, the effect of CCK-8 on glutamate appears to be mediated via both CCKA and CCKB receptor subtypes.
Pharmacological profile of KSG-504, a new cholecystokinin-A-receptor antagonist.	Pharmacological effects of KSG-504, a newly synthetized compound, on the response induced by exogenous CCK-8 were investigated. KSG-504 inhibited 125I-CCK-8 binding to both rat pancreas and cerebral cortex with IC50 values of 2.0 x 10(-7) M and 8.0 x 10(-5) M, respectively. The selectivity ratio of KSG-504 for pancreatic CCK receptor (CCK-A) was estimated as 400. In the isolated pancreatic acini of rats, KSG-504 caused a parallel rightward shift of the concentration-response curve for CCK-8-stimulated amylase release with no change in its maximal response, indicating a competitive antagonism of the drug for the CCK-A receptor (Schild plot analysis; slope = 0.927, pA2 = 6.9). In addition, KSG-504 produced a significant inhibition of CCK-8-induced pancreatic amylase secretion when administered intravenously or intraduodenally to rats (ED50: 52 micrograms/kg/min by the i.v. route and 12.1 mg/kg by the i.d. route). KSG-504 had equipotent inhibitory effects on both CCK-8-stimulated pancreatic secretion and gallbladder contraction in dogs with ED50 values of 0.98 and 0.84 mg/kg, respectively. KSG-504 also inhibited the CCK-8-induced contraction of isolated guinea pig ileum in a concentration-dependent manner (IC50 = 3.0 x 10(-6) M). These results demonstrate that KSG-504 is a competitive and selective CCK-A-receptor antagonist that is effective in vivo after oral administration.
Inhibition by a receptor-mediated Ca2+ entry blocker, SK&F 96365, of Ca2+ and secretory responses in rat pancreatic acini.	The effect of a receptor-mediated Ca2+ entry blocker, 1-(beta-[3-(4-methoxyphenyl)propoxy]-4-methoxyphenethyl)-1H-imidazole hydrochloride (SK&F 96365), on a secretagogue-induced secretory response and Ca2+ dynamics was examined in isolated acini of rat pancreas. SK & F 96365 inhibited the secretory response induced by 100 pM cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) or 3 microM ethanaminium, 2-[(aminocarbonyl)oxy]-N,N,N-trimethyl,-chloride (carbachol) in isolated incubated acini up to 73.2 +/- 6.1% or 70.3 +/- 3.8% with IC50 of 47.7 microM or 42.0 microM, respectively. The inhibitory effect of SK&F 96365 on the time courses of CCK-8-induced amylase release and [Ca2+]c (cytoplasmic Ca2+ concentration) elevation was further examined in isolated perifused acini or isolated acini loaded with Fura-2. In the 100 pM CCK-8-stimulated preparation, 30 microM SK&F 96365 partly, and 100 microM SK&F 96365 completely, inhibited the sustained plateau phase, but did not inhibit the initial phase of the Ca2+ and secretory responses. In the 5 pM CCK-8-stimulated preparation; (a) 30 microM SK&F 96365 reduced the frequency of the [Ca2+]c oscillations, but caused little, if any, changes in the secretory response; (b) 100 microM SK&F 96365 transformed the oscillatory [Ca2+]c dynamics to a transient increase followed by a gradual decay and caused a significant inhibition of the sustained secretory response. These results indicate that the sustained responses to secretagogues are dependent on a receptor-mediated Ca2+ entry which can selectively be blocked by SK&F 96365 in rat pancreatic acini.
Tyrphostins inhibit secretagogue-induced 1,4,5-IP3 production and amylase release in pancreatic acini.	We examined the role of protein tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tyrphostins) in secretagogue-induced inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (1,4,5-IP3) production and amylase secretion in rat pancreatic acinar cells. The data show that various specific cell-permeant tyrphostins (methyl 2,5-dihydroxycinnamate, tyrphostin 25, and genistein) inhibited the cholecystokinin octapeptide-, carbachol-, and bombesin-induced 1,4,5-IP3 production and amylase release. In digitonin-permeabilized cells, tyrphostins decreased 1,4,5-IP3 accumulation and amylase release generated by directly stimulating G proteins with the weakly hydrolyzable GTP analogue guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate). Tyrphostins had no effect on vasoactive intestinal peptide-induced amylase secretion. In isolated pancreatic acinar membranes, cholecystokinin octapeptide caused a rapid increase in tyrosine phosphorylation of a synthetic peptide containing the 12-amino acid sequence around a tyrosine phosphorylation site in pp6osrc. These results provide evidence that tyrosine kinases are involved in the activation of phospholipase C by G protein-coupled receptors in pancreatic acinar cells.
Neurohormonal regulation of histamine synthesis in isolated rabbit fundic mucosal cells.	In a population of rabbit fundic mucosal cells enriched in mucous and endocrine cells, gastrin and cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) were shown to increase dose-dependently histidine decarboxylase (HDC) activity with the same efficacy and high potencies [50% effective concentration (EC50) 0.389 +/- 0.041 and 0.275 +/- 0.011 nM, respectively], whereas pentagastrin was less potent (EC50 2.90 +/- 0.13 nM). L-365,260 and PD-135,666 inhibited gastrin- and CCK-8-stimulated HDC activity with a high potency [50% inhibitory concentration (IC50) 1.00 +/- 0.08 and 4.2 +/- 0.7 nM for gastrin-stimulated and 1.95 +/- 0.21 and 1.78 +/- 0.12 nM for CCK-8-stimulated HDC activity, respectively], whereas L-364,718 was 50 to 100 times less potent (EC50 100 +/- 2.5 and 91.2 +/- 3.1 nM, respectively on gastrin- and CCK-8-stimulated HDC activity). Carbachol also dose-dependently increased HDC activity (EC50 7.08 +/- 0.32 nM), and its effect was reversed by selective muscarinic-receptor antagonists with the following order of potency: pirenzepine (IC50 15.1 +/- 1.2 nM) > para-fluoro-hexahydro-siladifenidol (IC50 0.316 +/- 0.02 microM) > 11-2[(2-[(diethyl-amino)-methyl]-1-piperidinyl)acetyl]-5,11-dihydro-6H- pyrido[2,3-b][1,4]benzodiazepine-6-one (IC50 28.5 +/- 1.1 microM). Moreover, gastrin and carbachol were able to modify slightly but significantly both the Michaelis constant (Km) and the maximal velocity (Vmax) of HDC in the same way (18-20% reduction of the Km and 25-30% increase of the Vmax).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effects of 16,16-dimethyl prostaglandin E2 on pancreatic exocrine function in vivo and in vitro in rat experiments]	The effects of exogenous and endogenous prostaglandin on rat pancreatic exocrine function were investigated in vivo and in vitro. Under stimulation by endogenous CCK or exogenous caerulein, protein output was significantly reduced by intravenous drip infusion of 16,16-dimethyl prostaglandin E2 (DMPGE2), and under stimulation by exogenous secretin, volume and bicarbonate output were markedly reduced by DMPGE2. Amylase release from isolated pancreatic acini was significantly reduced by DMPGE2 under stimulation by 10(-11)-3 x 10(-11) M CCK-8, and was not influenced by DMPGE2 under stimulation by secretin or by indomethacin under stimulation by caerulein. Basal amylase release was not influenced by DMPGE2 or indomethacin. Basal cellular cyclic AMP and cyclic GMP contents were not influenced by DMPGE2, and elevated cyclic GMP content under stimulation by caerulein was significantly reduced by DMPGE2. These findings suggest that pancreatic enzyme secretion is reduced by DMPGE2 under stimulation by physiological or pharmacological concentration of CCK, and one of which mechanism is direct effect of DMPGE2 on pancreatic acini, may be coupling with phosphatidylinositol breakdown system and without cyclic AMP.
The role of a gastrin-like peptide in regulating the different stages in the feeding behavior of snails]	The role of gastrin-like peptides in a regulation of feeding behaviour was studied in a snail Helix lucorum. Sensory stimulation during 15 min carried out by a patch of clothes moistened by the carrot juice (pseudo-feeding) decreased the weight (by 25-50%) of eaten carrot and the duration of the food intake. Similar satiety effect was found after pentagastrin (380 ng) or cholecystokinin-octapeptide (560 ng) injection 20 min after the beginning of the food intake. Measurement of the gastrin-like immunoreactivity showed that the peptide levels in the meta-cerebral ganglia and the haemolymph were dependent on the stage of feeding behaviour. After pseudo-feeding the peptide levels in the ganglia and the haemolymph were significantly higher than those during feeding. Our results suggest the presence of a single gastrin/cholecystokinin-like peptide with feeding stage-dependent functional significance in Helix snails.
Pharmacological interaction between neuropeptides and pethidine or fentanyl in rat spinal cord.	Male Wistar rats were treated with pethidine (PT) or fentanyl (FN) subcutaneously (sc) followed by intrathecal (ith) non analgesic doses of methionine- (MENK) or leucine-enkephalin (LENK), neurotensin, (NT), substance P (SP) or cholecystokinin octapeptide 26-33 (CCK-8). Then the antinociceptive effect was measured during 1 h using tail-immersion test. LENK potentiated strongly PT and FN analgesia. MENK antagonized PT analgesia only transiently 30 min after administration and transiently potentiated FN analgesia. SP and CCK-8 potentiated significantly PT analgesia, whereas NT acted biphasically: increasing and then decreasing PT analgesia. SP, CCK-8 and NT augmented FN analgesia. Naloxone inhibited analgesia elicited by the studied opioids and neuropeptides. These data show that LENK affects similarly the analgesic effects of both studied opioids, whereas MENK acted differently on PT and FN analgesia. This may suggest that individual enkephalins have different pharmacological features when interacting with different analgesics. Also NT interacted differently with pethidine and fentanyl.
Cholecystokinin octapeptide and the D2 antagonist raclopride induce Fos-like immunoreactivity in the shell part of the rat nucleus accumbens via different mechanisms.	Induction of neuronal Fos-like immunoreactivity (IR) in the rat brain by cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) and the dopamine (DA) D2 receptor antagonist raclopride was demonstrated. In vivo treatment with the CCK-8 (0.01, 0.1 and 1 nmol/rat, i.c.v.) or the D2 antagonist raclopride (0.1, 0.5 and 1 mg/kg, i.p.) alone increased in a dose-dependent way the Fos-like ir profiles in the shell part of the rat nucleus accumbens (AcbSh). Combined treatment with CCK-8 (0.1 nmol/rat) and raclopride (0.5 mg/kg) caused significant additive increases in the Fos-like ir profiles in the AcbSh. In the central caudate-putamen, the medial olfactory tubercle, and the frontal cerebral cortex where either compound alone was weakly active or inactive, the combined treatment with both compounds led to a significant induction of neuronal Fos-like ir profiles. These results suggest that the blockade of D2 and activation of CCK transduction lines can induce Fos-like IR via different mechanisms. They may produce additive effects in AcbSh and synergistic effects in the caudate-putamen and the olfactory tubercle on the induction of neuronal Fos-like IR and thus on long-term regulation of gene expression in the striatum.
CCK activates excitatory ventral tegmental pathways to the posterior nucleus accumbens.	In urethane-anaesthetized male rats, electrical stimulation of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) produced either excitation (n = 26) or inhibition (n = 5) in the activity of neurones in the posterior nucleus accumbens (PNAc). Local administration of sulfatedcholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK8, 0.03 microgram) into the stimulation site enhanced the neuronal excitability in 10 out of 21 PNAc neurones that demonstrated the excitation to VTA stimulation, but did not affect the remaining 11 neurones. Similar administration, on the other hand, was without effect in any of PNAc neurones (n = 5) that displayed the inhibition to VTA stimulation. These results suggest that CCK8 may act at the VTA to elicit an activation of the excitatory pathways from the VTA to the PNAc.
Lack of satiety effect of cholecystokinin (CCK) in a new rat model not expressing the CCK-A receptor gene.	This work expands recent observations that Otsuka Long-Evans Tokushima Fatty (OLETF) rats show little or no pancreatic expression of the cholecystokinin (CCK)-A receptor gene. We examined whether the CCK-A and -B receptor genes were expressed in the brain (hypothalamus) of OLETF rats in comparison with control (Long-Evans Tokushima Otsuka = LETO) rats. CCK-A receptor mRNA was detected in the hypothalamus of LETO rats but not OLETF rats. The CCK-B receptor gene was expressed in the hypothalamus in both strains. Cerebroventricular administration of CCK-8 sulfate inhibited daily food intake in LETO rats, but not in OLETF rats. These results show that in OLETF rats the absence of CCK-A receptor gene expression in the hypothalamus results in hyperphagia because of lack of satiety.
Protein c-fos induction in rat brain and spinal dorsal horn by sincalide and opioids in vitro.	Sincalide (CCK-8) is an antiopioid substance. In this study, we investigated the effects of sincalide and opioids on c-fos expression and their interaction in brain and spinal dorsal horn in vitro. Immunoprecipitation was used for detection of c-fos protein. The results indicated that 0.1 mumol.L-1 sincalide induced c-fos expression markedly in both brain (a 3.8-fold increase in c-fos protein level) and in spinal dorsal horn (a 3.6-fold increase). NDAP (a kappa receptor agonist) 0.1 mumol.L-1 showed some activating effects on c-fos expression, the c-fos protein level increased 2.7 and 2.6 times respectively in brain and spinal dorsal horn. Ohmefentanyl (Ohm, a mu receptor agonist) 0.1 mumol.L-1 also exhibited an inducing effect on c-fos protein production. Sincalide and NDAP exerted some additive effects on c-fos protein production in spinal cord. In contrast, the effect of sincalide on c-fos protein production is antagonistic to that of Ohm. The results suggested that there were changing patterns of interaction on c-fos expression between sincalide and opioids.
Modulation of striatal aspartate and dynorphin B release by cholecystokinin (CCK-8) studied in vivo with microdialysis.	Sulphated cholecystokinin-8 (CCK-8) given into the neostriatum of the rat by in vivo microdialysis produced a concentration-dependent (1-100 microM) increase in extracellular aspartate (Asp) and dynorphin B (Dyn B), but not in glutamate, GABA or dopamine levels. The increase in Asp levels produced by 10 microM CCK-8 was approximately 10 fold and was inhibited (approximately 50%) by the CCKB antagonist L-365,260 (20 mg kg-1, i.p.), while the increase in Dyn B (approximately 2 fold) was totally abolished. Both increases were inhibited (approximately 50%) by local infusion of 10 microM of tetrodotoxin (TTX). Thus, CCK exerts modulatory effects in the basal ganglia, possibly by interacting with local neostriatal neurones releasing Asp, and with Dyn B-containing neurones projecting to the pars reticulata of the substantia nigra.
Effects of cholecystokinin octapeptide and somatostatin on the motility and release of [3H]acetylcholine in canine colon.	1. The longitudinal and circular muscle layers of canine colon showed a different pattern of mechanical activity: regular rhythmic phasic contractions in the circular strips and irregular rhythmic prolonged contractions in the longitudinal strips. 2. The spontaneous motility of both layers was suppressed by atropine (1 microM) or hexamethonium (1 microM), suggesting the involvement of ACh. 3. Somatostatin (1 nM-1 microM) decreased, while CCK8 (1-10 nM) increased the spontaneous and electrically-induced contractions of the colonic muscles, the circular layer being more sensitive as compared to the longitudinal layer. 4. CCK8 enhanced both resting and electrically-induced [3H]ACh release, while SOM inhibited the electrically-stimulated [3H]ACh release.
Extrapancreatic cholinergic nerves mediate cholecystokinin-stimulated pancreatic polypeptide release.	Although vagal cholinergic stimulation is the predominant regulatory mechanism governing the release of pancreatic polypeptide (PP), recent studies suggest that cholecystokinin (CCK) is also an important mediator. The present study examined the role of cholinergic neural pathways in the PP response to exogenous CCK-8 using a selectively denervated canine pancreas model. Chronic denervated pancreatic preparations were created in five dogs, while five dogs underwent sham laparotomy as controls. On study days, the fasted animals were infused intravenous CCK-8 (40 or 400 pmole/kg/hr) for 60 min both with and without atropine (20 micrograms/kg/hr). Plasma was collected at 20-min intervals and PP levels were determined by radioimmunoassay. CCK-8 elicited a dose-dependent increase in circulating PP in dogs with a neurally intact pancreas. Atropine and pancreatic denervation eliminated the PP response to CCK-8 at 40 pmole/kg/hr (P < 0.01) and inhibited the PP response to CCK-8 at 400 pmole/kg/hr (P < 0.05). The high dose of CCK-8 still elicited a small PP response in the denervated dogs (P < 0.05), which was subsequently abolished by the addition of atropine. These findings suggest that extrapancreatic cholinergic nerves are essential components of CCK-stimulated PP release, and that intrapancreatic cholinergic activity may play a limited role.
Direct contractile response of isolated gallbladder smooth muscle cells to cholecystokinin in patients with gallstones.	To examine whether the contractile response of gallbladder smooth muscle cells to cholecystokinin is reduced in patients with gallstones, smooth muscle cells were isolated from the gallbladders of patients either with or without gallstones and their direct contractile responses to cholecystokinin-octapeptide (CCK-8) were examined at physiological concentrations. The basal cell lengths were similar in patients with cholesterol gallstones (43 +/- 1.2 micron (SEM)), in patients with black pigment stones (42 +/- 1.1), and in the gallstone-free group (42 +/- 1.3). The contractile responses to CCK-8 at physiological concentrations ranging from 10(-13) to 10(-11) M were significantly greater in the gallstone patients compared with those in the gallstone-free patients, while the responses were similar at 10(-10) and 10(-9) M. No difference in contractile response to CCK-8 was found between the patients with cholesterol gallstones and those with black pigment stones. The effective dose of 50% was 1.6 x 10(-13) M in cholesterol gallstone patients, 3.2 x 10(-14) M in black pigment stone patients, and 1.0 x 10(-12) M in gallstone-free patients. The current in vitro study showed that the contractile responses of isolated smooth muscle cells of the gallbladder to CCK-8 are not impaired in patients with gallstones.
Thapsigargin defines roles of Ca2+ in initial, sustained, and potentiated stimulation of pepsinogen secretion.	The roles of Ca2+ in agonist-induced pepsinogen secretion from guinea pig chief cells remain unclear. We used cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) or secretin alone or with thapsigargin (TG) to clarify these roles. TG releases Ca2+ from intracellular stores by inhibiting microsomal Ca(2+)-adenosinetriphosphatase (ATPase), thereby depleting intracellular Ca2+ (Cai2+) stores. In most cells TG also causes Ca2+ influx. In the present study, with an extracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]o) of 1.5 mM, CCK-8 (0.1 microM) caused a rapid increase in pepsinogen secretion; however, the rate decreased with time. With [Ca2+]o = 0, the initial increase was similar but later secretion was abolished, suggesting that Ca2+ influx was important for sustained secretion. With [Ca2+]o = 1.5 mM, TG (0.1 microM) caused a 2.7-fold sustained increase in in Cai2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) and a ninefold sustained increase in pepsinogen secretion. With [Ca2+]o = 0, TG caused a transient 66% increase in [Ca2+]i and a 50% increase in pepsinogen secretion. The time course of TG-induced pepsinogen secretion correlated with the time course of TG-induced increases in [Ca2+]i. These data demonstrated that Ca2+ influx itself was a potent stimulant of pepsinogen secretion. We further focused on the roles of increasing [Ca2+]i from Cai2+ stores. With or without extracellular Ca2+ (Cao2+) present, addition of CCK-8 (0.1 microM) 10 min after TG caused no further increase in [Ca2+]i, demonstrating depletion of the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate-sensitive pool. The Ca(2+)-mobilizing agent CCK-8 caused no pepsinogen secretion 10 min after TG preincubation, demonstrating that mobilization of Ca2+ from intracellular stores was important in the rapid initial phase stimulation of pepsinogen secretion caused by CCK-8. In contrast, preincubation with TG had no effect on pepsinogen secretion by secretin, an agent that increases adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate. A 6-min preincubation with TG potentiated the subsequent stimulation of pepsinogen secretion caused by secretin in the presence of Cao2+ where [Ca2+]i remained elevated. However, TG-induced potentiations of secretin-stimulated pepsinogen secretion was abolished once [Ca2+]i had returned to the basal level in the absence of Cao2+.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Integration of postprandial function in the proximal gastrointestinal tract. Role of CCK and sensory pathways.	Cholecystokinin (CCK) stimulates vagal afferent fiber discharge, both gastric and intestinal, which seems to result in reflex decrease in gastric motility, gastric acid secretion, and stimulation of pancreatic protein secretion. Endogenous release of CCK by fat or soybean trypsin inhibitor also alters function by way of a capsaicin-sensitive pathway. We suggest that CCK is released locally from the intestine and acts locally or systemically to stimulate vagal afferent fiber discharge to alter proximal gastrointestinal function (Fig. 14). In this way, in addition to its effect on food intake, CCK and the neural pathway integrate function in the proximal gastrointestinal tract, regulating the entry of food into the duodenum to ensure effective digestion and absorption.
Effect of cholecystokinin on gastric motility in humans.	Gastric emptying after food ingestion is regulated by neural and hormonal factors. However, the relative contributions of each pathway is not yet clearly defined. The classic gut hormone CCK seems to be involved in the regulation of gastric emptying in humans. Experimental evidence is best for gastric emptying of liquid meals that release CCK from the duodenum: (1) CCK infused at postprandial plasma concentrations inhibits gastric emptying of a liquid and a semisolid meal. (2) Administration of the CCK antagonist loxiglumide significantly accelerated gastric emptying of a liquid mixed meal and a glucose meal. Discrepant results with the antagonist MK329 are difficult to explain considering the marked acceleration of gastric emptying rates by the specific and potent antagonist MK329 shown in several animal studies. Taken together, current information favors the conclusion, however, that CCK mainly controls gastric emptying of the liquid but not the solid components. Thus, CCK is involved in the physiologic regulation of gastric emptying and gastric motility in man. Blocking CCK-A receptors accelerates gastric emptying of liquid meals and abolishes the gastrocolonic reflex. Therefore, CCK may play a role as a common regulator of postprandial gallbladder contraction and pancreatic enzyme secretion as well as of gastric emptying rates under certain conditions. Such common control would optimize the nutrient-to-digestive juices concentration ratio. The importance of endogenous CCK on gastric emptying of solid meals, however, is poorly understood and remains to be defined. Only very limited information is available on gastric motility. Much more work has to be done before a clear concept can be developed.
Effects of KRN2391, a novel vasodilator, on pancreatic exocrine secretion in anesthetized dogs.	The effects of KRN2391, a newly synthesized vasodilator, on pancreatic exocrine secretion in anesthetized dogs were compared with those of Ki3315, pinacidil and nitroprusside. Graded doses of KRN2391 (0.03-3 mumol/kg) and nitroprusside (0.003-0.3 mumol/kg) injected i.a. produced dose-dependent increases in the secretion of pancreatic juice, with a high concentration of protein and low concentration of bicarbonate, but Ki3315 or pinacidil did not (up to 10 mumol/kg). KRN2391 and nitroprusside increased the cyclic GMP levels in pancreatic tissue together with the increase in pancreatic secretion. Methylene blue decreased pancreatic secretion and cyclic GMP levels stimulated by KRN2391 and nitroprusside, but glibenclamide did not. KRN2391, Ki3315, pinacidil and nitroprusside caused vasodilator actions. These results suggest that KRN2391 has direct secretory properties on pancreatic exocrine glands of the dog and its nitro moiety has an important role in the stimulation of pancreatic secretion, but the K+ channel opening action or increasing of blood flow rate does not participate in the secretion.
Comparative study of antibacterial activity of pancreatic juice in six mammalian species.	A comparative study of antibacterial activity of pancreatic juice was conducted on six mammalian species. Pancreatic juice collections were conducted as acute (rabbit, guinea pig, rat) and chronic (pig, sheep, cattle) experiments, in the former before and after stimulation [cholecystokinin (CCK) and secretin] and in the latter under basal conditions alone. Antibacterial activity was tested on Micrococcus pyogenes and compared with that of neomycin. The samples were tested under normal conditions and after heating and dilution. The pancreatic juice of rat showed no activity against Micrococcus pyogenes. The antibacterial activity of rabbit and guinea pig pancreatic juice under basal conditions was similar within the group but significantly higher than that of pig, sheep and cattle which also did not differ significantly within the group. On stimulation with CCK and secretin, no significant change could be observed in the potency of antimicrobial activity of pancreatic juice in the rabbit and guinea pig. The antibacterial activity remained unchanged after heating to 65 degrees C and upon dilution to 1:10.
Effect of pancreatic denervation and atropine on the pancreatic response to secretin.	To study the influence of extrapancreatic nerves and intrapancreatic cholinergic activity on the pancreatic response to secretin, six dogs underwent extrapancreatic denervation and creation of pancreatic fistulae. A second group of six dogs had pancreatic fistulae created without pancreatic denervation. The pancreatic exocrine response to graded doses of secretin (16-500 ng/kg/h) was determined, both alone and during a background infusion of cholecystokinin-octapeptide (CCK8, 50 ng/kg/h). All studies were replicated during administration of atropine (10 micrograms/kg/h). Secretin-induced bicarbonate output was significantly inhibited by atropine in both the innervated and denervated groups. Combined secretin and CCK8 elicited a dose-dependent increase in bicarbonate output and a sustained increase in protein output in both groups, regardless of atropine. In addition, potentiation of secretin-induced bicarbonate output by CCK8 was observed despite both extrinsic pancreatic denervation and administration of atropine. We conclude that endogenous intrapancreatic cholinergic activity influences the pancreatic response to secretin. Potentiation of secretin-induced bicarbonate output by CCK, however, is not dependent on neural mediation.
Effects of CCK8 and of the CCKB-selective agonist BC264 on extracellular dopamine content in the anterior and posterior nucleus accumbens: a microdialysis study in freely moving rats.	The effects of the local administration of cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK8) in the posterior nucleus accumbens (N. Acc.) and of BC264 (a selective CCKB agonist) in the anterior N. Acc. on dopamine (DA) neurotransmission were studied in awake rats. Microdialysis was used to quantify the extracellular contents of DA and its two metabolites, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and homovanillic acid (HVA). In the posterior N. Acc., a perfusion of 10(-5) M CCK8 for 40 min (i.e. 25 pmol) increased the extracellular levels of DA, DOPAC and HVA. In contrast, 10(-4) M BC264 perfused for 40 min (i.e. 350 pmol) into the anterior N. Acc. reduced extracellular DA but did not modify DOPAC and HVA levels. These findings suggest that the CCK-DA interactions are different in various regions of the N. Acc. and emphasize the functional heterogeneity of the N. Acc., issuing in part from its particular DA innervation (mixed CCK-DA terminals only in the posterior region) but also from the distribution of the CCK fibers and binding sites in this nucleus. This microdialysis study, using perfusions of CCK compounds in the N. Acc. of freely moving rats, shows that the CCK system might play an important regulatory role in limbic DA function.
Involvement of oxytocin and cholecystokinin-8 in interleukin-1 beta-induced adrenocorticotropin secretion in the rat.	It is well established that corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) is a principal neuropeptide which mediates the adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) secretory response to interleukin (IL)-1 in the rat. It has recently been suggested that besides CRH, arginine vasopressin may also play a stimulatory role in IL-1 induced ACTH secretion. However, it remains to be elucidated whether other neuropeptides possessing an ACTH-releasing activity are involved in this neuroendocrine event. Therefore, in this study, we examined possible roles for oxytocin (OT) and cholecystokinin (CCK)-8 in the IL-1-induced ACTH response, utilizing the technique of immunoneutralization of these peptides. For comparison, we examined the effect of CRH immunoneutralization as well. Human recombinant IL-1 beta (50 ng) was given intracerebroventricularly (to the 3rd ventricle) to freely moving male rats 15 min after injecting specific antiserum against CRH, OT, or CCK-8, or normal rabbit serum (control) via the same route. As expected, anti-CRH antibody significantly suppressed the ACTH response to IL-1 beta. Interestingly, anti-OT antibody acted in the same manner, whereas anti-CCK-8 antibody did not. These results suggest that in addition to CRH and arginine vasopressin, OT may also play a significant role in mediating the IL-1 beta-induced ACTH secretion in the rat.
CCKB-receptor activation augments the long-term potentiation in guinea pig hippocampal slices.	Effects of cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) on long-term potentiation (LTP) of CA1 synaptic transmission induced by tetanic stimulation of the input fibers were examined in guinea pig hippocampal slices. CCK-8 and a selective agonist for the CCKB receptor, non-sulfated CCK-8, dose-dependently augmented the magnitude of LTP. Concomitant application of a selective antagonist for the CCKB-receptor subtype, L-365,260 (3R(+)-N-(2,3-dihydro-1-methyl-2-oxo-5-phenyl-1H-1,4- benzodiazepine-3-yl)-N'-(3-methylphenyl)urea), completely blocked the augmentation of LTP induced by CCK-8, whereas a selective CCKA-receptor antagonist, L-364,718 (3S(-)-N-(2,3-dihydro-1-methyl-2- oxo-5-phenyl-1H-1,4-benzodiazepine)), had little effect. Thus, enhancement of LTP by CCK appears to be mediated by CCKB receptors. Furthermore, CCK-8 enhanced paired-pulse facilitation at a concentration of 10(-7) M without affecting the amplitude of the population spike induced by single stimulation. This effect was mimicked by a low dose of tetraethylammonium (TEA), a K+ channel blocker. Moreover, both CCK-8 and TEA reduced the late component of evoked field potentials. This late evoked potential was diminished by increasing the extracellular K+ concentration. It is suggested that CCK-8 reduces the K+ conductance in CA1 pyramidal neurons. This reduction in the K+ conductance might be related to enhancement of the LTP.
Gallbladder motility before and after Billroth II gastric resection.	The aim of this study was to determine the effect of Billroth II gastric resection (BII) without vagotomy on gallbladder contraction in response to meal and CCK-OP infusion. Fourteen duodenal ulcer patients were studied before surgery and six months postoperatively. Gallbladder volume was measured by real-time ultrasonography. After surgery, there was a significant increase in fasting gallbladder volume (P < 0.05). Postprandial gallbladder emptying was not significantly affected by gastrectomy apart from a trend towards a shorter t1/2 and a larger ejection volume. In addition, postoperative gallbladder relaxation was more pronounced at time 120 min. In response to cholecystokinin-octapeptide (CCK-OP) infusion, there was a significant decrease of t1/2 after BII and a prolonged contraction with a significantly reduced gallbladder volume. Our data show that the gallbladder response both to meal and CCK-OP infusion is modified after BII and a larger postoperative gallbladder volume may play a role in the pathogenesis of gallstone disease after gastric surgery.
Gastric chief cells possess NK1 receptors which mediate pepsinogen secretion and are regulated by agents that increase cAMP and phospholipase C.	In order to determine whether tachykinins alter the function of chief cells and to characterize the receptors mediating the effect, we investigated the abilities of various substance P (SP)-related peptides to inhibit the binding of 125I-Bolton-Hunter labeled substance P (125I-BH-SP) and their abilities to alter cell function in dispersed chief cells from guinea pig stomach. Binding of 125I-BH-SP was saturable, reversible, time- and temperature-dependent and was inhibited by several SP-related peptides with relative potencies of SP = physalaemin (IC50:0.19 nM) > SP methyl ester (SP-ME) (IC50:3.3 nM) > eledoisin (IC50:6.1 nM) > neurokinin A (NKA) (IC50: 65 nM) > neurokinin B (NKB) (IC50:80 nM). Analyses of these binding data demonstrated that chief cells possess a high and low affinity class of binding sites. Neither 125I-NKA nor [phenylalanyl-3,4,5-3H]senktide demonstrated saturable binding to chief cells. Acid stripping experiments demonstrated rapid ligand internalization with 55% of the bound radioligand internalized by 10 min. Phospholipase C activating agents (carbachol, CCK-8), adenylate cyclase activating agents (secretin, VIP), TPA and the calcium ionophore, A23187, all inhibited the binding of 125I-BH-SP and it was due to inhibition of ligand internalization with no change in surface bound parameters. SP (0.1 microM) stimulated pepsinogen secretion but was 4-times less efficacious than CCK-8 (10 nM) or carbachol (1 mM). 10 nM SP stimulated a rapid increase in cytoplasmic free calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) followed by a sustained elevation lasting 2 min. Single cell spectroscopy demonstrated SP (10 pM to 1 microM) did not cause calcium oscillations. The NK1 receptor antagonist, CP96,345 specifically inhibited the SP-stimulated changes in [Ca2+]i and pepsinogen secretion. The relative potencies of SP-related peptides to stimulate pepsinogen secretion and [Ca2+]i demonstrated a close agreement with their abilities to inhibit the binding of 125I-BH-SP, and comparison of the dose-response curves suggests occupation of the low affinity sites mediate changes in biologic activity. In conclusion, the present study demonstrates that chief cells possess a NK1 subtype of tachykinin receptor, occupation of the low affinity sites of this receptor cause calcium mobilization and pepsinogen secretion, and that binding to this receptor is regulated by agents that activate phospholipase C, adenylate cyclase, protein kinase C and calcium mobilization.
Calcium dependence of calcium extrusion and calcium uptake in mouse pancreatic acinar cells.	1. The droplet technique was used to investigate the calcium dependence of calcium extrusion from pancreatic acinar cells with preserved intracellular environments. The calcium dependence of calcium extrusion indicated a strong co-operativity (Hill coefficient, 3). The half-maximal rate of calcium extrusion occurred at an intracellular free calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) of approximately 200 nM. At [Ca2+]i levels higher than 400 nM the calcium extrusion mechanism was almost completely saturated. 2. The rate of [Ca2+]i recovery was measured with the same cells under conditions where both calcium extrusion and calcium reuptake occurred simultaneously and under conditions when calcium reuptake was prevented and recovery depended entirely upon calcium extrusion. The rate of [Ca2+]i recovery due to calcium reuptake displayed a very sharp dependence on [Ca2+]i. The rate of [Ca2+]i recovery due to reuptake increased approximately 10 times (from 4.3 to 44.1 nM s-1) for an increase of [Ca2+]i of only 100 nM (from 120 to 220 nM). 3. With a decrease of [Ca2+]i the ratio of rate of calcium extrusion to rate of calcium uptake into internal stores increased, indicating that extrusion plays a more important role at low [Ca2+]i levels. Data for [Ca2+]i recovery rates due to extrusion and due to reuptake allowed us to evaluate the absolute rate of calcium translocation into the internal stores during the recovery process. When [Ca2+]i = 350 nM the total (i.e. bound and free) calcium concentration in the cytosol decreased by approximately 100 microM s-1 due to calcium uptake into internal stores. The rate of uptake was approximately 20 times slower when [Ca2+]i = 120 nM.
Influence of CCK-8 and yohimbine on supraspinal modulation of nociceptive process.	We studied the effect of cholecystokinin (CCK-8) and yohimbine-alpha-2-adrenoreceptor antagonist administered locally into lateral reticular formation (LRF) on the bioelectrical response to the pain stimulation. The experiments were carried out on 8 conscious rabbits with bilaterally implanted electrodes into: motor-sensory cortex, ventro-postero-lateral thalamic nuclei, hippocampus and LRF. Nociceptive stimulation was performed by means of electrical pulses applied to the front paw. Bioelectrical activity (BA) of the chosen brain structures was analysed by means of spectral analysis (FFT) and directed transfer function (DTF). The results of our study may suggest that supraspinal administration of CCK-8 together with yohimbine have inhibitory effect on nociceptive transmission.
Altered intracellular Ca2+ regulation in pancreatic acinar cells from acute streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	We investigated intracellular Ca2+ regulation in pancreatic acinar cells from rats with diabetes induced by a single injection of streptozotocin (80 mg/kg). Experiments were performed 2 days and 7 days after the injection of streptozotocin. The density of muscarinic receptors, measured by [3H]N-methyl scopolamine binding, was unchanged in 2-day-diabetic rats, but was significantly increased in 7-day-diabetic rats. The percentage of high affinity receptors (RH) and low affinity receptors (RL) determined from the competitive curves with [3H]N-methyl scopolamine and carbachol was not change in 2-day-diabetic rats compared to controls, whereas 7-day-diabetic rats showed a decrease in %RH and an increase in %RL. The carbachol-evoked initial peak of intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) was increased in 2-day-diabetic rats and decreased in 7-day-diabetic rats, compared to controls. In the carbachol-induced sustained phase in [Ca2+]i, the response in 7-day-diabetic rats was significantly decreased; however, there was no difference between controls and 2-day-diabetic rats. Carbachol (100 microM)-induced [3H]inositol 1,3,4-trisphosphate generation was significantly lower in diabetic rats than in the controls. The addition of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (1,4,5-IP3) significantly increased 45Ca2+ release from saponin-permeabilized cells in 2-day-diabetic rats, but did not do so in 7-day-diabetic rats. Ca2+ refilling into the intracellular stores, determined by second cholecystokinin-8 (10 nM) stimulation after 10 microM carbachol stimulation, was increased in 2-day-diabetic rats and decreased in 7-day-diabetic rats. These observations indicate that the alterations in intracellular Ca2+ regulation accompanied by changes in transmembrane signaling occur in the earlier stage of the diabetic state. The findings also suggest that the increase in the carbachol-evoked [Ca2+]i peak in 2-day-diabetic rats is related predominantly to the higher sensitivity of 1,4,5-IP3-sensitive Ca2+ stores and the increase in the capacity of Ca2+ refilling in these animals, whereas the reduction in the [Ca2+]i peak in 7-day-diabetic rats appears to be related to the essential decrease in receptor-mediated 1,4,5-IP3 generation and the decrease in Ca2+ refilling capacity.
Regulation of dopamine D2 receptor affinity by cholecystokinin octapeptide in fibroblast cells cotransfected with human CCKB and D2L receptor cDNAs.	Alteration in dopamine (DA) and/or cholecystokinin (CCK) transmission in the CNS may be of relevance for schizophrenia. Previous findings in striatal membranes give indications of a modulation of DA D2 receptor affinity by CCKB receptor activation. In the present study receptor binding studies were performed in a mouse fibroblast cell line (L-hD2l/CCK), expressing both human D2 receptors (long form, D2L) and human CCKB receptors, and binding sites for [3H]CCK-8S (sulfated CCK octapeptide), the D2 agonist [3H]NPA and the D2 antagonist [3H]raclopride were found and characterized in saturation and competition experiments. 1 nM of CCK-8 caused a significant 38% increase in the KD value of the D2 agonist [3H]NPA binding sites in the L-hD2l/CCK cell membranes. This change was blocked by the CCKB receptor antagonist PD 134308 (50 nM). Furthermore, 1 nM of CCK-8 increased the KD value of the D2 antagonist [3H]raclopride binding sites by 34% (P < 0.05) in the L-hD2l/CCK cell membranes. Control cells (L-hD2l cells) expressing D2L receptors showed no specific [3H]CCK-8S binding sites and no modulation by CCK-8 of the D2L receptors. These findings indicate a modulation of the D2L receptor affinity by activation of the CCKB receptor also when they are coexpressed in a fibroblast cell line. One possible explanation of these data may include a receptor-receptor interaction between the CCKB and D2L receptors.
CCK-8 inhibits ingestive behavior in rats with lateral hypothalamic 6-OHDA lesions.	Male rats were injected with 6-hydroxydopamine in the lateral hypothalamus and tested for ingestive behavior starting on the day after the injection. The rats did not eat food pellets but readily ingested an intraorally infused nutritive solution. If given three daily intraoral infusions, 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rats defended their body weight and were as sensitive to the inhibitory effect of cholecystokinin octapeptide on intake as controls. Dopamine was reduced by 94% in the dorsal striatum five days after the 6-hydroxydopamine injection. Noradrenaline and serotonin were less markedly affected. Thus, while appetitive ingestive behavior is disrupted, consummatory ingestive behavior and body weight regulatory competence are only marginally affected by massive damage to forebrain dopamine neural networks.
Comparison of the effects of simmondsin and cholecystokinin on metabolism, brown adipose tissue and the pancreas in food-restricted rats.	In this study, we investigated the analogies between the physiological effects of simmondsin, a satiety-inducing glycoside extracted from jojoba seeds, and the gastro-intestinal satiation peptide, cholecystokinin. The effects of intraperitoneal injection of the biological active CCK-octapeptide on the pancreas, interscapular brown adipose tissue, growth performance and energy metabolism in normal-fed, severely food intake-restricted (50 % of normal food intake) or moderately food intake-restricted (65 % of normal food intake) growing rats were compared to the effects of 0.25 % simmondsin mixed in the food, inducing moderate food intake reduction (65 % of normal) in rats. Cholecystokinin induced pancreatic hypertrophy. In normal fed rats, cholecystokinin had no effect on brown adipose tissue or growth, while, in severely food intake-restricted rats, it caused brown adipose tissue hypertrophy and reduced growth. In moderately food intake-restricted rats, both cholecystokinin and simmondsin induced pancreatic hypertrophy, increased brown adipose weight and metabolism and caused a slight decrease in growth. We conclude that cholecystokinin may decrease growth performance in fast growing severely food intake-restricted rats by stimulating brown adipose tissue metabolism, probably because of protein shortage induced by pancreatic hyperstimulation. Simmondsin has similar effects. These results support the hypothesis that endogenous cholecystokinin is involved in the effects of simmondsin in rats.
Naloxone-induced supersensitivity of oxytocin neurones to opioid antagonists.	Here we report that a single administration of naloxone to conscious rats produces no significant increase in oxytocin release, but when repeated 3-4 days later results in a large release of oxytocin. Plasma oxytocin concentrations were measured in conscious and urethane-anaesthetized rats pretreated with naloxone or isotonic saline on Day 1. On Days 2, 3 or 4, a second dose of naloxone was given, producing an increase in oxytocin secretion in naloxone-pretreated groups (P < 0.05 vs. controls) on Day 3 and 4, but not on Day 2. The specificity of the opioid antagonist supersensitivity was determined by injection of the kappa-antagonist nor-binaltorphimine (nor-BNI). Pretreated rats (naloxone, saline or nor-BNI, Day 1) received an additional acute nor-BNI injection (Day 4) which increased plasma oxytocin concentration in the three groups. However, this increase was higher in naloxone-pretreated rats with no differences between the nor-BNI- and saline-pretreated animals. Measurements of electrical activity of single supraoptic nucleus oxytocin neurons and of plasma oxytocin concentration (Day 4) showed that naloxone modestly enhanced the responsiveness of oxytocin neurons to cholecystokinin (CCK) in naloxone-pretreated rats (by comparison with saline-pretreated rats), but had only a small effect on basal firing rate that did not differ between naloxone-pretreated rats and saline-pretreated rats. To investigate whether naloxone-pretreatment modified the effect of morphine on CCK-induced oxytocin release, on Day 4 CCK was injected i.v. with or without morphine. Morphine at a dose of 0.1 mg/kg did not affect CCK-induced oxytocin release, whereas 1 mg/kg of morphine blocked this release in both saline- and naloxone-pretreated rats. The results suggest that naloxone induces opioid antagonist supersensitivity on oxytocin secretion, mainly by up-regulating kappa-opioid mechanisms on oxytocin nerve terminals in the posterior pituitary.
Oxytocin is elevated in plasma of 10-day-old rats following gastric distension.	In adult rats, oxytocin (OT) has been shown to reduce the intake of both food and fluids, and oxytocinergic cells are activated by gastric distension and administration of the intestinal peptide cholecystokinin (CCK-8). These and other findings indicate that OT can play a role in inhibiting ingestion under some conditions. A previous study has shown, however, that oxytocinergic cells are unresponsive to CCK-8 in 2-day-old rats. We report here that OT is elevated in the plasma of 10-day-old rats after induction of gastric distension with both mother's milk and saline. These results indicate that the vagal-hypothalamic axis becomes mature between 2- and 10-days of age in infant rats.
Physiological role of cholecystokinin in gastroprotection in humans.	Cholecystokinin (CCK) is able to protect gastric mucosa against acute injury in experimental animals but little is known about the role of this hormone in maintaining mucosal integrity in humans. This double-blind, placebo controlled study was performed in 16 healthy volunteers. It describes the effects of CCK-8 infused intravenously (i.v.) at physiological doses and endogenous CCK released by intraduodenal (i.d.) oleate on gastric mucosal damage, as brought about by ethanol without or with pretreatment with loxiglumide, a selective CCK-A receptor antagonist.
Interaction of cholecystokinin (CCK-33) and its C-terminal fragments: CCK-8 and CCK-4 with alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor agonists and antagonists in the cardiovascular system of rats. Part A.	The goal of the present study was to examine the interaction of cholecystokinin (CCK-33) and its fragments: C-terminal octapeptide (CCK-8) and C-terminal tetrapeptide (CCK-4) with alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor agonists and antagonists. The effect of this interaction on arterial blood pressure and function of isolated heart was studied in rats. The results indicate that: 1) CCK-33 enhances the influence of catecholamines: noradrenaline and isoprenaline, mainly on the function of isolated heart. This peptide does not change cardiovascular effects of alpha-adrenoceptor antagonist--phentolamine. CCK-33 diminishes the influence of propranolol on the function of isolated heart. The hypotensive effect of beta-adrenoceptor antagonist is not affected by CCK-33. 2) CCK-8 does not alter cardiovascular effects of noradrenaline and isoprenaline. The peptide diminishes the hypotensive effect of phentolamine and reverses the hypotensive effect of propranolol. CCK-8 enhances the influence of propranolol and does not change the influence of phentolamine on the function of isolated heart. CCK-8 enhances bradycardia evoked by propranolol. 3) CCK-4 does not change the influence of noradrenaline and isoprenaline on arterial blood pressure and diminishes the hypotensive effect of phentolamine and propranolol. The peptide does not change cardiac effects of noradrenaline and diminishes the effects of isoprenaline, phentolamine and propranolol. On the basis of the present study, we concluded that CCK-33 and its fragments CCK-8 and CCK-4 modify the cardiovascular action of alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor agonists and antagonists. We suggest that effects we have observed correlate with the activation of the CCK-A receptors (CCK-33, CCK-8) or CCK-B receptors (CCK-4). CCK-related peptides may increase or reduce the effects of catecholamines indirectly through activation of alpha-adrenoceptors. We can not exclude direct action of the peptides on the heart.
Interaction of cholecystokinin (CCK-33) and its C-terminal fragments: CCK-8 and CCK-4 with alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor agonists and antagonists in the cardiovascular system of diabetic rats. Part B.	This study investigated the interaction of cholecystokinin (CCK-33) and its fragments: C-terminal octapeptide (CCK-8) and C-terminal tetrapeptide (CCK-4) with alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor agonists and antagonists. The effects of this interaction on arterial blood pressure and function of isolated heart were studied in rats with 1-month diabetes mellitus (DM) induced by 1-month administration of streptozocin (STZ). We used CCK-33, CCK-8 and CCK-4 in an equimolar dose of 425.0 pmoles/kg i.v. in in vivo, and 42.5 pmoles/0.1 ml in in vitro experiments. We found that 1) DM diminished the hypertensive effect of noradrenaline (NA) and the hypotensive effects of isoprenaline (ISO), phentolamine (PHENT) and propranolol (PROP). CCK-4 and CCK-8 enhanced but CCK-33 did not change a weaker hypertensive effect of NA while all peptides showed the hypotensive effect of PHENT and did not change the hypotensive effect of ISO and PROP. 2) The influence of NA and PROP on isolated heart of diabetic rats remained unchanged after administration of the peptides but that of ISO and PHENT was diminished. CCK-4 enhanced the effects of NA and PHENT, and diminished the influence of ISO and PROP on isolated heart of diabetic rats. CCK-33 enhanced the cardiac effects of NA, ISO and PROP and did not alter PHENT action. CCK-8 did not change the influence of the studied adrenoceptor agonists and antagonists on isolated heart of diabetic rats. The results of the present study demonstrated that the smallest fragment of CCK-33 (CCK-4) modified the influence of alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor agonists and antagonists on cardiovascular system and altered the direction of disturbances caused by DM. The other peptides (CCK-33, CCK-8) interacted with these receptors to a lesser degree in diabetic subjects.
Role of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide in the adaptation of intestinal smooth muscle cells to mechanical distension.	Distension of the small intestine can play a role in the pathogenesis of various functional intestinal disorders. This study determined the role of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) in the adaptative response of intestinal smooth muscle to acute and chronic distension of the ileum in vivo. Several in vitro experiments were performed to identify the mechanism of receptor regulation. Distension was applied by a balloon inflated with air in the ileum either during a single episode in anesthetized or repeatedly in conscious guinea pigs. Then, muscle cells were isolated by enzymatic digestion from the distended and nondistended adjacent ileal segments. In addition, in vitro experiments were performed on freshly dispersed cells for determination of mechanisms. Control cells maximally relaxed (Cmax) at 1 microM VIP (EC50 = 50 pM) and 100 microM isoproterenol (EC50 = 7 nM). Both acute and chronic distensions triggered a right-ward shift of the concentration-response curves for VIP (Cmax = 100 microM, EC50 = 10 nM). A desensitization of the relaxing effect of VIP receptors was also observed when cells were preincubated for 30 min in vitro with VIP. By contrast, the relaxing effect of isoproterenol was affected neither by in vivo distension nor by in vitro incubation with isoproterenol. Desensitization of VIP receptors was prevented by in vitro incubation of cells with VIP plus a VIP antagonist [(D-P-Cl-Phe6,Leu17)VIP] and by intraluminal perfusion of the VIP antagonist during acute distention in vivo. Moreover, desensitization of VIP receptors did not occur after 30 min preincubation with either forskolin or 8-Bromo-cyclic AMP. These results indicate that mechanical distension of the ileum induces a homologous desensitization of VIP receptors on circular smooth muscle cells, which requires the occupation of its receptors by VIP.
NO/cGMP pathway is involved in exocrine secretion from rat pancreatic acinar cells.	The enzyme responsible for the synthesis of nitric oxide (NO) from L-arginine in mammalian tissues is known as nitric oxide synthase (NOS) (EC.1.14.13.39). In the present study, the role of NO in the regulation of exocrine secretion was investigated in rat pancreatic acinar cells. Treatment of rat pancreatic acinar cells with cholecystokinin-octapeptide (CCK-OP) resulted in an increase in the arginine conversion to citrulline, the amount of NOx, the release of amylase, and the level of cGMP. Especially, CCK-OP-stimulated increase of arginine to citrulline transformation, the amount of NOx and cGMP level were completely counteracted by the inhibitor of NOS, NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (MMA), by contrast, that of amylase release was partially reduced. Furthermore, MMA-induced decrease of NOS activity and amylase release showed dose-dependent pattern. The data on the time course of CCK-OP-induced citrulline formation and cGMP rise indicate that NOS and guanylate cyclase were activated by treatment of CCK-OP. However, the mechanism of agonist-stimulated guanylate cyclase activation in acinar cells remains unknown. Therefore, activation of NOS is one of the early events in receptor-mediated cascade of reactions in pancreatic acinar cells and NO, not completely, but partially mediate pancreatic enzyme exocrine secretion.
Involvement of endogenous cholecystokinin and somatostatin in gastroprotection induced by intraduodenal fat.	Duodenal fat such as oleate is known to influence gut functions by release of cholecystokinin (CCK), but the contribution of CCK endogenously released by duodenal fat or by diversion of pancreatic juice from the duodenum in the mechanism of mucosal integrity and gastroprotection has been little studied. This study was designed to compare the effect of CCK-8 and intraduodenal (i.d.) instillation of sodium oleate, or diversion of the pancreatic biliary secretions that are known to release CCK, on the gastric mucosal lesions induced by topical application of 100% ethanol or acidified aspirin (ASA) in rats with or without the pretreatment with a CCK-A receptor antagonist, loxiglumide, or with L-365,260 to block CCK-B receptors. In addition, the effect of suppression of prostaglandin (PG) biosynthesis by indomethacin (5 mg/kg i.p.), inhibition of nitric oxide (NO)-synthase by L-NAME (5 mg/kg i.v.), or blockade of sensory nerves by capsaicin (125 mg/kg s.c.) on the protective activity of sodium oleate was determined. Sodium oleate (50-200 mM i.d.), or diversion of pancreatic juice from the duodenum for 3 h that produced significant rise in plasma CCK levels, significantly reduced gastric lesions induced by 100% ethanol to an extent similar to that induced by exogenous CCK-8 (5 nmol/kg s.c.). The protective effect of oleate or diversion of pancreatic juice was accompanied by an increase in gastric blood flow (GBF). Both protection and accompanying hyperemia were completely abolished by blockade of CCK-A receptors with loxiglumide, whereas L-365,260, an antagonist of CCK-B receptors, had no effect. Oleate given i.d. significantly attenuated acidified ASA-induced gastric lesions and gastric secretion while increasing the luminal concentration of somatostatin. These effects were significantly reduced by loxiglumide but not by L-365,260. In contrast, CCK-8, which stimulated gastric acid secretion, failed to affect the lesions induced by acidified ASA and the decrease in the GBF produced by this ulcerogen. Indomethacin, which suppressed PG generation by approximately 90%, failed to influence the protective activity of oleate or CCK-8 against ethanol-induced lesions, whereas L-NAME, vagotomy, or sensory denervation significantly attenuated this protection and accompanying hyperemia. Addition to L-NAME of L-arginine, but not D-arginine, restored the protective and hyperemic effects of CCK-8 and duodenal oleate against gastric lesions induced by ethanol or acidified ASA. We conclude that endogenous CCK released by oleate or diversion of pancreatic secretion exerts a potent gastroprotective action on the stomach involving predominantly CCK-A receptors and depending on vagal activity, and hyperemia mediated by NO and sensory nerves but unrelated to acid secretory effects and endogenous PG.
