Tocochromanols, plastoquinol, and other biological prenyllipids as singlet oxygen quenchers-determination of singlet oxygen quenching rate constants and oxidation products.	Singlet oxygen quenching rate constants for tocopherol and tocotrienol homologues have been determined in organic solvents of different polarities, as well as for other biological prenyllipids such as plastoquinol, ubiquinol, and alpha-tocopherolquinol. The obtained results showed that the quenching activity of tocochromanols was mainly due to the chromanol ring of the molecule and the activity increased with the number of the methyl groups in the ring and solvent polarity. Among prenylquinols, alpha-tocopherolquinol was the most active scavenger of singlet oxygen followed by ubiquinol and plastoquinol. The oxidation products of tocopherols were identified as 8a-hydroperoxy-tocopherones which are converted to the corresponding tocopherolquinones under acidic conditions. The primary oxidation products of prenylquinols, containing unsaturated side chains, were the corresponding prenylquinones that were further oxidized to hydroxyl side-chain derivatives. In the case of plastochromanol, the gamma-tocotrienol homologue found in some seed oils, mainly the hydroxyl derivatives were formed, although 8a-hydroperoxy-gamma-tocopherones were also formed to a minor extent, both from plastochromanol and from its hydroxyl, side-chain derivatives. The obtained results were discussed in terms of the activity of different prenyllipids as singlet oxygen scavengers in vivo.
Effects of riboflavin photosensitization on daidzein and its photosensitized derivatives.	Photosensitized compounds from daidzein were studied in a riboflavin model system under visible light irradiation by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). As the period of light irradiation increased, concentration of daidzein decreased significantly (P < 0.05) and new peaks of daidzein derivatives were observed and changed during photosensitization. Three new peaks from photosensitized daidzein were tentatively identified as 7-, 3', 4'-trihydroxyisoflavone (or 3'-hydroxydaidzein) and 2 dimmers of daidzein by a combination of HPLC-mass spectrometry (MS) and retention times of standard compounds by HPLC. Addition of sodium azide and removal of headspace oxygen treatment affected the formation of newly formed peaks. The type I pathway of riboflavin photosensitization played more important roles than type II pathways on the formation of daidzein derivatives. Practical Application: Isoflavones are important phytochemicals found in soy foods. Generally, many foods containing soy ingredients are displayed under visible light irradiation. Also, riboflavin can be found in many foods containing vegetables. The results of this study can be used to understand the stability and changes of isoflavone aglycones in soy and soy-based foods under visible light irradiation.
