Parasite fauna of the water vole (Arvicola terrestris) and its nests in the south of Western Siberia]	Fauna of parasitic and free-living arthropods associated the water vole Arvicola terestris and its nests in various landscape zones and subzones of the south of Western Siberia has been studied. Total abundance of gamasid mites and ticks (Gamasoidea, Ixodidae), fleas and nidicolous arthropods in nests is high, and the set of nidicolous and parasite species is quite diverse, but everywhere the parasite fauna is characterized by a small amount of species reaching a high abundance: Laelaps muris on the voles, Haemogamasus ambulans in nests, Ixodes apronophorus and Megpbotris walkeri both on the voles and nests. Parasitic arthropods living on the voles or in their nests are characterized by higher and stables indices of infection, while these parameters for free-living arthropods were variable. The list of mesostigmatic mites parasitizing the water vole and its nests in the south of Western Siberia (Adamovich, Krylov, 2001) has been considerably supplemented. In total, the fauna of parsitiform mites (Acari: Mesostigmata and Ixodiddes) and fleas (Siphonaptera) associated with the water vole in the south of Western Siberia is represented by 97 arthropod species of 19 families, including 74 species of mesostigmatic mites (Gamasoidea), 6 species of ticks (Ixodidae) and 17 species of fleas.
Immune responses to fleas in two rodent species differing in natural prevalence of infestation and diversity of flea assemblages.	We studied in vivo immune response to fleas in two gerbils, Gerbillus dasyurus and Gerbillus andersoni allenbyi, which differed in their natural species richness of flea assemblages and prevalence of infestation. G.dasyurus is parasitized naturally by several flea species, but the prevalence of infestation is low, whereas G. a. allenbyi is parasitized by a single flea species, with high prevalence of infestation. We hypothesized that immunological parameters and the cell-mediated specific immune response to an antigen from an unfamiliar flea species differ between the two gerbil species. Parasitized and control gerbils of both species demonstrated similar, relatively low levels of spontaneous glucose consumption. The same was true for the phytohemagglutinin treatment. Responses to antigen from unfamiliar flea species were higher than both spontaneous glucose consumption and response to phytohemagglutinin in parasitized and control G. a. allenbyi and parasitized G. dasyurus. However, no significant difference in the spontaneous blast transformation index and responses to both phytohemagglutinin and flea antigen was found in control G. dasyurus. The number of white blood cells was significantly lower in control than in parasitized G. dasyurus, whereas no difference in the number of white blood cells was found between control and parasitized G. a. allenbyi. The levels of circulating immune complexes and concentrations of immunoglobulins did not differ between parasitized and control individuals in both species. Phagocytic activity was significantly higher in males than in females of G. a. allenbyi but not of G. dasyurus. In addition, phagocytes of G. dasyurus appeared to be significantly more active than those of G. a. allenbyi.
Possible vector dissemination by swift foxes following a plague epizootic in black-tailed prairie dogs in northwestern Texas.	To determine whether swift foxes (Vulpes velox) could facilitate transmission of Yersinia pestis to uninfected black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) colonies by acquiring infected fleas, ectoparasite and serologic samples were collected from swift foxes living adjacent to prairie dog towns during a 2004 plague epizootic in northwestern Texas, USA. A previous study (1999-2001) indicated that these swift foxes were infested almost exclusively with the flea Pulex irritans. Black-tailed prairie dogs examined from the study area harbored only Pulex simulans and Oropsylla hirsuta. Although P. irritans was most common, P. simulans and O. hirsuta were collected from six swift foxes and a single coyote (Canis latrans) following the plague epizootic. Thus, both of these canids could act as transport hosts (at least temporarily) of prairie dog fleas following the loss of their normal hosts during a plague die-off. All six adult swift foxes tested positive for antibodies to Y. pestis. All 107 fleas from swift foxes tested negative for Y. pestis by mouse inoculation. Although swift foxes could potentially carry Y. pestis to un-infected prairie dog colonies, we believe they play only a minor role in plague epidemiology, considering that they harbored just a few uninfected prairie dog fleas (P. simulans and O. hirsuta).
Survey of flea infestation in dogs and cats in the United Kingdom during 2005.	During 2005, 31 uk veterinary practices participated in a survey of flea infestation, during which 2653 dogs and 1508 cats were examined for evidence of flea infestation and skin disease compatible with flea allergy dermatitis (fad). The prevalence of flea infestation in the cats was 21.09 per cent, significantly (P<0.001) higher than in the dogs (6.82 per cent). The prevalence of skin lesions compatible with fad in the cats (8.02 per cent) was also significantly (P<0.001) higher than in the dogs (3.32 per cent). Flea infestations were more common in households with cats and with more than one pet. Of 467 fleas identified from the cats, 462 (98.93 per cent) were Ctenocephalides felis, one was Ctenocephalides canis, one was Archaeopsylla erinacei, two were Pulex irritans, and one was Spilopsyllus cuniculi. Of 336 fleas identified from the dogs, 313 (93.15 per cent) were C felis, five were C Canis, 12 were A erinacei, five were P irritans, and one was Ceratophyllus (Nosophyllus) fasciatus. Almost half of the owners of the dogs and cats were unaware of their pet's flea infestation. The overall prevalence of fleas and/or skin lesions that could potentially be compatible with fad was 7.46 per cent in the dogs and 22.28 per cent in the cats.
Epifaunistic arthropod parasites of the four-striped mouse, Rhabdomys pumilio, in the Western Cape Province, South Africa.	Flea, lice, mite, and tick species associated with 510 Rhabdomys pumilio were collected at 9 localities in the Western Cape Province, South Africa. The aims of the study were first to quantify the species richness, prevalence, and relative mean intensity of infestation of epifaunistic arthropod species associated with R. pumilio, and second to determine temporal variations in the mean abundance of the parasitic arthropods. Each mouse was examined under a stereoscopic microscope and its parasites were removed, identified, and quantified. The epifaunal population was made up of more than 25,000 individuals and included 8 flea, 1 sucking louse, 11 mite, and 13 ixodid tick species. Female-biased sex ratios were noted for 9 (30%) of the ectoparasite species. Three undescribed mite and 1 undescribed tick species were recovered, and new locality records for 2 flea, the louse, and 2 mite species were documented. A phoretic host association between a nonparasitic mite species, Psylloglyphus uilenbergi kivuensis, and 3 flea species, Chiastopsylla rossi, Hypsophthalmus temporis, and Listropsylla agrippinae, was recorded. The mean abundance of the parasitic mite and insect species were higher during the cold wet season, whereas ticks were more numerous during the warm dry months. The large number of ectoparasite species on R. pumilio, a locally abundant and regionally widespread species, is of medical and veterinary importance particularly in relation to the transmission of pathogens such as Anaplasma marginale, Babesia caballi, and Babesia canis to domestic animals; Rickettsia conori; Yersinia pestis; and the viral disease Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever to humans.
Study on the epidemiological significance related to community-structural difference of the rat plague host and vectors in Western Yunnan, China]	To study the epidemiological significance of community-structural difference regarding both small mammal and flea communities on Rattus flavipectus in Dehong and Baoshan areas, Yunnan province, during 1982 to 1996.
Studies on esterase isoenzyme of three species of flea]	The patterns of esterase (Est) isoenzyme of 3 flea species were studied by vertical slab polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE). The samples prepared from the third larval instar, female and male (the unsucking and sucked one) were run in the same gel slab. The result was as follows: Xenopsylla cheopis showed 14 bands, with 5-6 major bands, Ctenocephalides felis felis showed 9 bands with 4-5 major bands and Nosopsyllus laeviceps kuzenkovi showed 9 bands with 4-5 major bands. These three species have their common bands as well as respective specific bands. The difference in Est isoenzymogram among families was greater than among genera, displaying a species-specific feature.
Tick (Ixodoidea) and flea (Siphonaptera) species on three red foxes (Vulpes vulpes) in Erzurum province]	In this study, three red foxes (Vulpes vulpes) which died after traffic accidents were examined in terms of ectoparasites, in the province of Erzurum in January of 2009. 13 ticks and 74 fleas were collected from the foxes and taken to the laboratory in separate glasses containing 70% alcohol. Ticks were taken directly from 70% alcohol and have been identified under the stereo microscope. Fleas were cleared in 10% KOH solution during 4-13 days and washed in distilled water 3-4 times and were identified under the light microscope. Two tick species Ixodes hexagonus Leach, 1815 (5 males, 7 females) and Haemaphysalis numidiana Neumann, 1905 (1 male) and four flea species Pulex irritans Linne, 1758 (23 males, 37 females), Chaetopsylla globiceps Tacshenberg, 1880 (11 female), Ctenocephalides canis Curtis, 1826 (2 female) and Ctenocephalides felis felis Bouche, 1835 (1 female) were identified. In this study H. numidiana have been identified in the fox for the first time.
Fleas associated with non-flying small mammal communities from northern and central Chile: with new host and locality records.	Fleas associated with small mammals from seven localities from northern and central Chile were assessed. We captured 352 small mammals belonging to 12 species from which we obtained 675 fleas belonging to 15 different species. The most frequently captured flea species were Neotyphloceras crassispina crassispina (n = 198) and N. chilensis (n = 175). High values of flea species richness and diversity were found in Fray Jorge National Park (NP), a north-central Chilean site, whereas the highest values of mean abundance (MA) and prevalence were found in three diverse sites that include Los Molles River, a high altitude site located in north-central Chile, Fray Jorge NP and Dichato, in south-central Chile. On the other hand, high values of flea richness and diversity were found on two rodent species, Abrothrix olivacea and A. longipilis, whereas the highest values of MA and prevalence were found on Oligoryzomys longicaudatus, A. longipilis and Phyllotis xanthopygus. A total of three new host recordings, nine new localities and nine new host species and locality recordings are reported. Also, this study represents the first known record of Tetrapsyllus (Tetrapsyllus) comis in Chile and the first ecological analysis of Neotyphloceras chilensis.
Differentiation of flea communities infesting small mammals across selected habitats of the Baltic coast, central lowlands, and southern mountains of Poland.	Only a few studies comparing flea composition on the coast and in the mountains have been conducted. We investigated differences in flea communities infesting small mammals in selected habitats in northern, central, and southern Poland. We predicted (1) a greater number of flea species in the southeastern Poland and a lower number in the north, (2) a greater number of flea species in fertile and wet habitats than in poor and arid habitats, and (3) a low similarity of flea species between flea communities in western and eastern Poland. We found a negative effect of increasing latitude on flea species richness. We suppose that the mountains providing a variety of environments and the limits of the geographic ranges of several flea subspecies in southeastern Poland result in a higher number of flea species. There was a positive effect of increasing wetness of habitat on flea species richness. We found a high diversity in flea species composition between western and eastern Poland (beta diversity = 11) and between central and eastern Poland (beta diversity = 12). Re-colonization of Poland by small mammals and their ectoparasites from different (western and eastern) refugees can affect on this high diversity of flea species.
The involvement of some flea species in the epizootic process in the Gorno-Altai natural plague focus: spatial and temporary characteristics]	The relative number of plague pathogen strains isolated from some flea species in different Gorno-Altai natural plague foci substantially varies; this indicator also varies with time. These patterns are due to the difference in the structure of multispecies communities of ectoparasites in these areas and their long-term transformation. As of now, the three species Paradoxopsyllus scorodumovi, Ctenophyllus hirticrus, and Amphalius runatus are widely involved in pathogen transmission in all three foci. These ectoparasites should be referred to as main plague vectors. In each focus, they are joined by other flea species, such as Rhadinopsylla dahurica and Amphipsylla primaris in the Ulandryk focus, Frontopsylla hetera, R. dahurica, Paradoxopsyllus kalabukhovi, and Paramonopsyllus scalodae in the Tarkhatin focus, and P. scalonae and P. kalabukhovi in the Kurai focus, which should be classified as an additional vector.
Mammal flea (Siphonaptera) fauna in the interfluve of the Malaya Laba and Belaya Laba rivers]	The mammals in the interfluve of the Malaya Laba and Belaya Laba rivers were found to have fleas of 35 species; the main hosts for 2 of them were birds. Few hosts harbored most of animal parasites. The species composition and structure of fleas on small mammals greatly varies with high-altitude zones.
Fleas of small mammals and birds in the forest-park area of the city of Novosibirsk]	The distribution of fleas of small mammals and birds in the nidi of tick-borne encephalitis was analysed. 23 species were recorded from the forest-park zone. Palaeopsylla soricis starki, Amalaraeus penicilliger penicilliger, Megabothris rectangulatus, Ctenophthalmus assimilis, Hystrichopsylla talpae were dominant. They amounted to 90% of the total number of fleas. The greatest species variety of fleas was noted in afforested low-lying parts with rich species composition of hosts.
The present status of the conquest of tropical Africa by Pulex irritans Linnaeus, 1758]	Owing to human parasites, two fleas, namely Pulex irritans Linné, 1758 and Tunga penetrans (L., 1758) were brought from America to intertropical Africa. The conquest of Africa by Pulex irritans, was really effective since the fifties, evidently by european strains. Some examples selected in occidental and oriental Africa show the reality of this fact. Accordingly, the epidemiological modalities in plague's african foci can be strongly changed.
Ectoparasites and classification.	The authors present an introductory overview of the principal groups of ectoparasites (flukes, leeches, crustaceans, insects, arachnids, lampreys and vampire bats) associated with domestic animals. Currently-accepted higher-level classifications are outlined for these parasites. Almost all significant ectoparasites of domestic animals are invertebrates, the majority being arthropods (crustaceans, insects and arachnids). Some of these ectoparasites are of particular importance as vectors of pathogens. Many ectoparasite species are host-specific, and vector species typically transmit characteristic pathogens.
Studies on the ectoparasites (fleas and lice) on rodents in Riyadh and its surroundings, Saudi Arabia.	A survey was conducted on rodents from the Riyadh City and surroundings. Two species of fleas, Xenopsylla cheopis and Ctenocephalides felis felis together with Polyplax spinulosa were collected. The highest infestation rate by both fleas occurred on Rattus rattus followed by Rattus norvegicus and Mus musculus. Females of R. rattus and R. norvegicus were more infested by fleas than males. On the other hand, Meriones spp., Gerbillus spp., Jaculus jaculus and Acomys dimidiatus were infested with X. cheopis and C.f. felis. The highest infestation rate by fleas occurred on Gerbillus spp. followed by Meriones spp.
