SirT1--a sensor for monitoring self-renewal and aging process in retinal stem cells.	Retinal stem cells bear potency of proliferation, self-renewal, and differentiation into many retinal cells. Utilizing appropriate sensors one can effectively detect the self-renewal and aging process abilities. Silencing information regulator (SirT1), a member of the sirtuin family, is a NAD-dependent histone deacetylase and an essential mediator for longevity in normal cells by calorie restriction. We firstly investigate the SirT1 mRNA expression in retinal stem cells from rats and 19 human eyes of different ages. Results revealed that SirT1 expression was significantly decreased in in vivo aged eyes, associated with poor self-renewal abilities. Additionally, SirT1 mRNA levels were dose-dependently increased in resveratrol- treated retinal stem cells. The expression of SirT1 on oxidative stress-induced damage was significantly decreased, negatively correlated with the level of intracellular reactive oxygen species production. Treatment with resveratrol could effectively further reduce oxidative stress induced by H(2)O(2) treatment in retinal stem cells. Importantly, the anti-oxidant effects of resveratrol in H(2)O(2)-treated retinal stem cells were significantly abolished by knockdown of SirT1 expression (sh-SirT1). SirT1 expression provides a feasible sensor in assessing self-renewal and aging process in retinal stem cells. Resveratrol can prevent reactive oxygen species-induced damages via increased retinal SirT1 expression.
A new nonpeptide substrate of human sirtuin in a capillary electrophoresis-based assay. Investigation of the binding mode by docking experiments.	Sirtuins are nicotinamide dinucleotide-dependent class III histone deacetylases catalyzing various physiological processes involved in cell proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis, and ageing. This makes them attractive targets in drug research. In order to simplify sirtuin substrates for assay development, two N(ɛ)-acetyllysine derivatives, N(ɛ)-acetyl-N(α)-(4-methyl-7-methoxycoumarin)lysine amide, and N(ɛ)-acetyl-N(α)-(4-methyl-7-methoxycoumarin)lysine methyl ester were synthesized and evaluated as substrates for human SIRT1 in a capillary electrophoresis-based enzyme assay. Substrate, deacetylated product, and the coproduct nicotinamide were separated in a 200 mM phosphate/Tris buffer at pH 2.85. Field-amplified sample injection was employed to achieve sufficient assay sensitivity. While the ester derivative was not recognized by the enzyme, the amide substrate was effectively converted to the deacetylated product. The assay was subsequently validated with respect to range, linearity, limit of detection, and limit of quantification. Michaelis-Menten kinetic parameters, K(m) = 83 μM and V(max) = 6.8 μM/min were determined. The applicability of the assay for inhibitor screening was demonstrated using the known inhibitors sirtinol and the suramin derivate NF258. Resveratrol did not increase the deacetylation rate at concentrations of up to 200 μM. Docking experiments revealed the necessity of an amide function at the C-terminus of nonpeptide substrates while more structural freedom is tolerated at the N-terminus of N(ɛ) -acetyllysine.
Enantioselective synthesis of cyclohepta[b]indoles: gram-scale synthesis of (S)-SIRT1-inhibitor IV.	An enantioselective gram-scale synthesis of one of the most potent SIRT1-inhibitors has been accomplished by an unprecedented domino reaction sequence establishing the cyclohepta[b]indole core. This method was developed for application in natural product synthesis of a variety of indole alkaloids. 
