Effect of sizofilan, an immunomodulator, on hepatic microsomal mixed-function oxidase activities in rats.	Mixed-function oxidase activities of hepatic microsomal preparations from rats were examined after intraperitoneal administration of sizofilan (SPG), an immunomodulator. Repeated doses of SPG (3 mg/kg/12 hr, 4 times) depressed the hepatic cytochrome P-450 content and the activities of aminopyrine N-demethylase and aniline hydroxylase.
In vitro activation of human adherent cells by a glucan, Schizophyllan.	Adherent cells from human peripheral blood were cultured in the presence of purified beta(1-3) glucan (SPG) derived from basidiomycetes Schizophyllun commune Fries, and kinetics of activation was studied. Acid phosphatase activity of the adherent cells cultured with SPG increased in parallel with the dose after 48 hours of incubation. Cytostatic activity of the adherent cells cultured with SPG was also augmented after the same incubation period. The elevated level of acid phosphatase activity and the cytostatic activity of SPG-treated adherent cells were in parallel with the cytotoxic activity of these cells. These results indicate that SPG can directly activate human adherent cells in vitro.
Activation of peritoneal macrophages in patients with gynecological malignancies by sizofiran and recombinant interferon-gamma.	We investigated the influence of the combined use of sizofiran, a beta-1,3-glucan and a recombinant interferon-gamma (rIFN-gamma) upon biological activities of peritoneal macrophages (M phi). The number of peritoneal M phi and the production of cytokines (interleukin-1 beta, interferon-gamma and tumor necrosis factor) was increased by the combined treatment. Fully activated peritoneal M phi based on the increased number of elongated pseudopods were observed by electromicroscope. Sizofiran seems to assure a sufficient supply of M phi to kill tumor cells in the peritoneal cavity and co-administered rIFN-gamma seems to directly stimulate the accumulated M phi in addition to its direct cytotoxicity against tumor cells. This combination therapy may be a step to the prevention of the recurrence of gynecological malignancies including ovarian cancer, after a negative second-look laparotomy.
