The lobster carapace carotenoprotein, alpha-crustacyanin. A possible role for tryptophan in the bathochromic spectral shift of protein-bound astaxanthin.	Crustacyanin, cross-linked with dimethyl pimelimidate to stabilize the protein against denaturation, was used to test the effects of tryptophan modification with BNPS-skatole [3-bromo-3-methyl-2-(nitrophenylmercaptol)-3H-indole] on the ability of the apoprotein to recombine with astaxanthin. The cross-linked apoprotein re-forms alpha-crustacyanin with astaxanthin in reasonable yield following incubation of the protein under the conditions for tryptophan modification in the absence of BNPS-skatole. The BNPS-skatole-treated protein reconstitutes with astaxanthin to give a carotenoprotein with lambda max. at 472 nm, that of the carotenoid in hexane, in a yield similar to that of the BNPS-skatole-untreated control. The implied involvement of tryptophan residues at the sites of astaxanthin attachment in crustacyanin and their possible roles in the binding sites of vitamin A in vitamin A-proteins are discussed in relation to the bathochromic spectral shifts of the chromophores.
A novel approach to 3-methylindoles by a Heck/cyclization/isomerization process.	A novel synthesis of 3-methylindoles from chlorotriflates through a Heck reaction, carbamate/aryl chloride coupling, and isomerization sequence is presented. The three-step sequence is highly efficient and general, enabling the regiocontrolled synthesis of substituted indoles in short order.
Expression of atrial natriuretic factor as a cleavable fusion protein with chloramphenicol acetyltransferase in Escherichia coli.	Recombinant fusion proteins containing human atrial natriuretic factor, ANF(1-28) joined to chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) via cleavable linker sequences have been produced in Escherichia coli. The linker sequences were designed to allow the release of authentic ANF(1-28) following proteolytic cleavage by enterokinase or thrombin, or chemical cleavage with 2-(2-nitrophenylsulphenyl)-3-methyl-3'-bromoindolenine. Proteins, containing ANF(1-28) fused to the carboxyl-terminal region of CAT (using the ScaI restriction site in the cat gene), were largely soluble in E. coli and were obtained in higher yield than analogues containing ANF(1-28) linked to shorter CAT sequences. The longer derivatives also retained CAT activity allowing subsequent purification by affinity chromatography.
The single tryptophan residue of human placental lactogen. Effects of modification and cleavage on biologic activity and protein conformation.	In order to define further the chemical features of the human placental lactogen (hPL) molecule responsible for its lactogenic activity, two derivatives of the hormone were prepared by treatment with BNPS-skatole (2-nitrophenylsulfenyl)-3-methyl-3'-bromoindolenine). At a molar ratio of reagent to hPL of 7:1, a derivative was produced in which the single tryptophan was completely oxidized. At higher ratios, a second derivative was formed in which the peptide chain was cleaved at the tryptophan residue and the two resulting fragments remained bound by the disulfide bond between Cys53 and Cys165. Oxidation of the single tryptophan resulted in reduced immunologic activity, reduced helical content as measured by circular dichroism below 240 nm, and changes in the near-UV circular dichroic spectrum, each indicating a change in the conformation of the hPL molecule. Nevertheless, this derivative retained 20% of its ability to bind to lactogenic receptors and 40 to 50% of its ability to stimulate N-acetyllactosamine synthetase in vitro. Cleavage at the tryptophan was not complete, but the loss of immunologic and biologic activity was equivalent to the degree of cleavage, indicating that the cleaved derivative was completely inactive. In addition, separation of the cleaved fragments from intact hormone followed by recombination did not generate any immunologic or biologic activity. We conclude that the single tryptophan of hPL is not essential for the biologic activity of hPL. It is likely that the reduced activity associated with modification or cleavage at the tryptophan residue is due to changes in the conformation of the molecule.
Purification and partial sequence of a hydrophobic polypeptide from BNPS-skatole cleaved bovine rhodopsin]	Rhodopsin isolated from outer segments of cattle retinas was cleaved at tryptophan residues by the BNPS-skatole. One of the polypeptides obtained S 5 (molecular weight about 12,000) of hydrophobic nature was isolated and the sequence of its 50 first residues revealed 60% of hydrophobic AA.
