3-methylindole induces transient olfactory mucosal injury in ponies.	Response to 3-methylindole (3MI) varies among species. Mice recover from 3MI-induced bronchiolar epithelial injury but sustain persistent olfactory mucosal injury with scarring and epithelial metaplasia. In contrast, 3MI induces obliterative bronchiolitis in horses and ponies, but olfactory mucosal injury has not been reported. To evaluate the effect of 3MI on equine olfactory mucosa, ponies were dosed orally with 100 mg 3MI/kg (n = 9) or corn oil vehicle (n = 6). All ponies treated with 3MI developed obliterative bronchiolitis with mild olfactory injury. By 3 days after 3MI dosing, olfactory epithelium appeared disorganized with decreased and uneven surface height and scalloping of the basement membrane zone. Epithelial cells of Bowman's glands were hypertrophic. Proliferation of olfactory epithelium and Bowman's glands was supported by an increased mitotic index and positive immunohistochemical staining for proliferating cell nuclear antigen as compared with controls. The activity of 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, an olfactory mucosal cytosolic enzyme localized to sustentacular and Bowman's glandular epithelial cells, was concurrently decreased. By 9 days postdosing, olfactory mucosal lesions had lessened. Results indicate that 3MI transiently injures equine olfactory mucosa without the extensive necrosis, scarring, or metaplasia seen in murine olfactory mucosa or in equine bronchiolar epithelium.
Functional deficits produced by 3-methylindole-induced olfactory mucosal damage revealed by a simple olfactory learning task.	Methods for assessing functional consequences of olfactory mucosal damage were examined in rats exposed to 3-methylindole (3-MI). Treatment with 3-MI (400 mg/kg) induced severe degeneration of olfactory sensory epithelium followed by regeneration, fibrous adhesions, and osseous remodeling of the nasal passages. At 100 mg/kg, there was mild Bowman's gland hypertrophy while the sensory epithelium remained intact. Rats receiving 3-MI demonstrated a treatment-related deficit in acquiring an olfactory learning task which was not due to altered cognitive abilities, as determined by subsequent testing in a step-through passive avoidance task. The results confirm the conclusion that alterations in functional indices resulted from 3-MI-induced anosmia and demonstrate the utility of simple learning tasks in assessing functional capacity following olfactory epithelial damage in rats.
Effect of 3-methylindole on respiratory ethane production in selenium and vitamin E deficient rats.	Lipid peroxidation has been proposed as a mechanism of 3-methylindole pneumotoxicity. In this report, lipid peroxidation was measured over 16 h in awake rats given 400 mg/kg i.p. 3-methylindole or its carrier, Cremophore EL. Rats were studied after 8 weeks of feeding a diet either adequate or deficient in vitamin E and selenium. Respiratory ethane production was used as the index of lipid peroxidation. 3-methylindole had no effect on lipid peroxidation for rats fed the adequate diet. For rats on the deficient diet, 3-methylindole suppressed lipid peroxidation by 50% of control. These results indicate that lipid peroxidation is not a mechanism of 3-methylindole pneumotoxicity and support the conclusion that 3-methylindole may act as an antioxidant.
3-Methylindole-induced nasal mucosal damage in mice.	3-Methylindole (3MI) damages nasal olfactory epithelium in mice. Lesions were studied histologically from 30 minutes to 28 days after intraperitoneal injection of 400 mg 3MI/kg. Cellular swelling was apparent in olfactory epithelium by 6 hours after injection of 3MI, while respiratory epithelium was normal. Necrosis of olfactory epithelium and subepithelial glands was diffuse by 48 hours. Subsequent ulceration resulted in epithelial hyperplasia, squamous metaplasia, fibroplasia, and ossification. Partially occlusive intranasal fibrous and osseous tissue persisted through 28 days after 3MI injection.
Identification of goat and mouse urinary metabolites of the pneumotoxin, 3-methylindole.	1. Urine from goats dosed i.v. with 3-methylindole (3MI; 15 mg/kg) or [methyl-14C] 3MI (15 mg/kg, 0.5 microCi/kg) contained at least 11 metabolites of 3MI. 2. Goat metabolized 3MI to sulfate conjugates of 4- or 7-hydroxy-3-methyloxindole, 5- or 6-hydroxy-3-methyloxindole, and 3,5- or 6-dihydroxy-3-methyloxindole; glucuronic acid conjugates of indole-3-carboxylic acid and 4- or 7-hydroxy-3-methyloxindole; and unconjugated 3-hydroxy-3-methyloxindole. Diastereoisomeric glucuronic acid conjugates of 3-hydroxy-3-methyloxindole were also identified in goat urine. 3. Urine from mice dosed i.p. with 3MI (400 mg/kg) or [ring-UL-14C] 3MI (400 mg/kg, 125 microCi/kg) contained at least six metabolites of 3MI. 4. Mice metabolized 3MI to glucuronic acid conjugates of 3,5- or 6-dihydroxy-3-methyloxindole, 5- or 6-hydroxy-3-methyloxindole, and indole-3-carboxylic acid; and unconjugated indole-3-carboxylic acid. Unconjugated 3-hydroxy-3-methyloxindole was identified in mouse urine in a previous report. 5. Both goats and mice metabolized 3MI to a mercapturate, 3-[(N-acetyl-L-cystine-S-yl)methyl]indole, which has been previously identified and was confirmed in this study. 6. 3-Methyloxindole was not identified in the urine of either goats or mice. 7. The major pathways of 3MI biotransformation in goats and mice is the formation of mono- and dihydroxy-3-methyloxindoles and their subsequent conjugation with glucuronic acid or sulfate. 8. There are no apparent qualitative differences in the biotransformation of 3MI between goats and mice that can account for their different sensitivities to 3MI-induced lung injury.
