Kangaroo care.	Kangaroo Care--skin-to-skin contact between parent and baby--is becoming a popular adjunct to the routine, technology-driven care provided to premature babies in neonatal intensive care units (NICUs) across the country. Research suggests that Kangaroo Care is safe and that it is therapeutic for the infant and parent alike. The purpose of this article is to review the Kangaroo Care Program at Brigham and Women's Hospital and to illustrate how it meets the needs of parents of premature infants.
Ultrasound for controlled delivery of therapeutics.	Release of substances from polymeric drug delivery systems can be repeatedly modulated at will through ultrasound. Nondegradable-diffusion controlled and degradable-erosion controlled polymeric delivery systems have both been shown to have enhanced kinetics of release when exposed to ultrasonic energy.  The effect of ultrasound was also evaluated on skin and synthetic membranes permeability.  The main factors contributing to this effect included mixing, temperature, cavitation, acoustic streaming and polymer morphological changes.  These phenomena have appealing therapeutic and commercial possibilities, as many drugs may benefit from subtle delivery pattern under temporal control to obtain optimal therapeutic effects.
The effect of evaporative air chilling and storage temperature on quality and shelf life of fresh chicken carcasses.	The effect of evaporative air chilling on quality of fresh chicken carcasses was compared with air chilling as reference method. Cooling efficiency and total heat loss were significantly higher for evaporative air chilling. The chilling method was of great importance for weight loss. Chicken chilled in cold air lost considerably more weight than chicken cooled by evaporative air chilling; the difference was 1.8%. The chilling method also affected the skin color and the amount of moisture on skin surface. After evaporative air chilling, the chicken carcasses had a lighter color and more water on the back and under the wings. The moisture content in skin and meat, cooking loss, and pH were not affected by chilling method. Odor attributes of raw chicken and odor and flavor attributes of cooked chicken did not show any significant differences between the two chilling methods. The shelf life of chicken stored at 4 and -1 C were not affected significantly by chilling method. Storage time and temperature appeared to be the decisive factors for sensory and microbiological quality of fresh chicken carcasses.
Studies of a putative ice-binding motif in winter flounder skin-type anti-freeze polypeptide.	Winter flounder contains two distinct anti-freeze protein isoforms, which are the liver-type extracellular anti-freeze proteins and the skin-type intracellular anti-freeze protein. The skin-type anti-freeze proteins exhibit lower anti-freeze activities than the liver-type isoforms and this might be due to their lacking complete ice-binding motifs. One of the skin-type anti-freeze proteins, skin-type anti-freeze protein-3, does contain putative overlapping ice-binding motifs with the sequences '-K-DT-' and '-DT-K-'. Synthetic anti-freezes containing 0-3 repeats of the '-DT-K-' motif were tested for stability and activity. Loss of the single '-DT-K-' of skin-type anti-freeze protein-3 increases the anti-freeze activity and increasing the number of motifs to two or three lowers the activity. The decrease in activity with an increasing frequency of the motif correlates with a decrease in the helical content of these peptides at 0 degrees C.
Role of prostaglandin H synthase isoforms in murine ear edema induced by phorbol ester application on skin.	Topical application of TPA to a murine ear induced an edema that was accompanied by eicosanoid biosynthesis and an early enhancement of prostaglandin H synthase 2 (PGHS-2) expression. PGHS-2 induction may be correlated with the time-course of TPA-induced edema formation. Treatment with drugs that inhibit AA mobilization such as dexamethasone or manoalide or inhibitors of leukotriene formation such as zileuton or baicalein, reduced TPA-induced edema development and PGHS-2 levels. On the other hand, arachidonic acid (AA) application on the murine ear induced rapid expression of PGHS-2. This effect was not reproduced by other fatty acids such as oleic, linoleic, eicosatetraynoic or eicosapentaenoic acids. PGHS-2 expression induced by AA application was independent of PGHS and lipoxygenase metabolite synthesis. However, topical application of PGE2 on skin induced PGHS-2 overexpression. This study suggests that AA release and/or subsequent metabolism by PGHS may be involved in the induction of PGHS-2 expression in murine TPA- and AA-induced ear oedema.
Adhesive and sealing effects of TO-193 on tissues and organs in various experimental models]	We studied the adhesive and sealing effects of sheet style fibrin adhesive, TO-193 (TachoComb), on some tissues and organs, comparing them with those of sheet style collagen agent, collagen sponge, Novacol, and Avitene and liquid fibrin adhesive agent, Beriplast P. TO-193 showed more a potent adhesive effect on liver than the sheet style collagen agents and was more potent on bone and skin than the liquid fibrin adhesive agent. Furthermore, TO-193 had a potent sealing effect at the site of incomplete suture immediately after application on a motile organ such as lung and stomach. These effects may be partly attributable to rapid expression of the effect due to the presence of a high concentration of fibrinogen on coverage. Enhancement of fibrin penetrability to the tissues by compression and inhibition of cleavage of coverage by the collagen sponge also may be participating in the effects of TO-193. These results suggest that TO-193 will be a valuable adhesive and sealing agent.
Immediate breast reconstruction with deepidermalized transverse rectus abdominis musculocutaneous flap after skin-sparing mastectomy.	Use of the transverse rectus abdominis musculocutaneous (TRAM) flap for breast reconstruction is widely accepted and indications have been well-defined over the past years. More recently, the moratorium prohibiting pre-filled silicone gel implants both in esthetic surgery and in reconstruction breast surgery, has incited more and more patients to refuse prostheses, even saline filled implants. Total mastectomy with skin-sparing technique, beyond the limitations dictated by oncology factors which must be taken into account because of the risk of local recurrence, raises the question of immediate breast reconstruction since implants, when possible, may give unsatisfactory results either more or less short-term. The deepidermalized TRAM flap is an interesting alternative for selected patients, especially those with an adapted abdominal morphology, allowing stable and natural autologous breast reconstruction.
Sexual dimorphisms in a neuromuscular system regulating courtship in the green anole lizard: effects of season and androgen treatment.	During the breeding season, male green anoles (Anolis carolinensis) court females by extending a red throat fan called a dewlap. Motoneurons controlling this sexually dimorphic behavior are located in two portions of the brain stem: (a) the vagal portion of nucleus ambiguus (AmbX), and (b) the region containing the glossopharyngeal portion of nucleus ambiguus and the ventral motor nucleus of the facial nerve (AmbIX/VIImv). These motoneurons project to the ceratohyoideus muscle via the ramus pharyngo-laryngeus IX+X. To investigate the effects of season on and androgen regulation of neural and peripheral structures controlling dewlap extension, two experiments were conducted: (a) During the breeding and nonbreeding seasons, motoneuron number, soma size, and nucleus size were investigated in intact males and females and in castrated males treated with a testosterone propionate (TP) or a blank Silastic capsule. (b) Cross-sectional area of the nerve and muscle fiber size, number, and density were investigated in the four treatment groups during the breeding season only. No significant differences were found in motoneuron number. In the breeding season, subtle male-biased sex differences existed in both AmbX and AmbIX/VIImv soma size. Nerve cross-sectional area and muscle fiber size and number were substantially larger in males than females. Muscle fiber density was higher in females. No consistent effects due to season or androgen treatment were detected, although characteristics of motoneurons were in some cases slightly larger in the nonbreeding season. These results suggest that, while parallels to behavior exist between the sexes, morphological changes in adulthood in the dewlap motoneurons and muscle do not normally regulate courtship behavior in the male green anole.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation for depression and other psychiatric disorders.	Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) has been proposed as a possible alternative to electroconvulsive therapy for the treatment of selected patients with depression, bipolar affective disorder and schizophrenia. The aim of this study was to evaluate the evidence for the effectiveness of rTMS in mood disorders and schizophrenia.
Effect of electrode shape on spectral features of surface detected motor unit action potentials.	A method for simulating the effect of electrodes of any shape on surface detected motor unit action potentials (MUAPs) is described. The method is based on an approach we have recently proposed according to which the spatial integration of an electrode with physical dimensions is described as a two-dimensional spatial filtering of the electric potential over the skin. The effect of circular, square and bar electrodes on the frequency characteristics of surface detected MUAPs is investigated from the theoretical point of view. In particular the appearance of characteristic frequencies at which the power spectrum of the detected surface EMG signal is zero (spectral dips) is analyzed in relationship with electrode size and shape. It is shown that the physical dimensions of the electrodes may determine spectral dips in the surface EMG power spectrum but only for particular electrode shapes. Simulation results are shown to validate the theoretical considerations.
Intracranial epidural abscess in a newborn secondary to skin catheter]	Intracranial epidural abscesses are uncommon lesions, being more frequents in older children and adults. They commonly arise as a result of direct extension of a preexisting infection and rarely present with focal deficit. We present a case of a 11-days old preterm infant who developed an intracranial epidural abscess as a result of an infected scalp vein catheter. The diagnosis was made on the basis of the cranial ultrasound and CT scan images. An identified strain of Enterococcus faecium was cultured from all the samples. The patient underwent a right frontal craniotomy with drainage of the abscess and a 2-week total course of intravenous antibiotics was administrated. CT scan imaging 3 week after the procedure demonstrated no evidence of residual lesion. When present, a scalp vein catheter, in absence of others predisponing factors, must be considered as an etiologic agent for an intracranial epidural abscess in this age-group.
Sterol regulatory element binding protein 1c (SREBP-1c) expression in human obesity.	Investigation of the expression of sterol regulatory element binding protein-1c (SREBP-1c) in different adipose tissue depots in morbidly obese subjects before and after 1 year of weight loss induced by gastric banding operation.
Rat growth during chronic centrifugation.	Female weanling rats were chronically centrifuged at 4.15 g with controls at terrestrial gravity. Samples of 6 to 10 rats were sacrificed for body composition studies at 0, 28, 63, 105, 179 and 308 days of centrifugation and 57 days after centrifugation ended. The centrifuged group had a significantly lower mature body mass than the controls (251 vs 318 g) but the rate of approach to the mature values was the same in both groups. Retirement to 1 g on the 60th day resulted in complete recovery. Masses of muscle, bone, skin, CNS, heart, kidneys, body water and body fat were changed in the centrifuged group. However, an analysis of the growth in mass of individual components relative to growth of the total fat-free compartment revealed that only skin (which increased in mass) was responding to centrifugation per se.
Early skin-to-skin contact for mothers and their healthy newborn infants.	Early skin-to-skin contact involves placing the naked baby prone on the mother's bare chest at birth or soon afterwards (< 24 hour). This could represent a 'sensitive period' for priming mothers and infants to develop a synchronous, reciprocal, interaction pattern, provided they are together and in intimate contact. Routine separation shortly after hospital birth is a uniquely Western cultural phenomenon that may be associated with harmful effects including discouragement of successful breastfeeding.
Somatic growth of preterm infants during skin-to-skin care versus traditional holding: a randomized, controlled trial.	We performed this randomized trial to determine whether infants receiving skin-to-skin care (SSC) grew more rapidly and had a shorter duration of hospital stay compared with infants held by their parents in a traditional way. Infants who met eligibility criteria (<or=32 wk of gestation, <or=1500 g, minimal ventilatory support, and hemodynamically stable) were randomized to traditional holding (TH) or SSC groups. Parents in both groups were allowed to hold infants for a total of 8 hours per day (periods of up to 4 hr, twice/d). During the study, infants in the TH group were held 4.8 +/- 3.5 times per week and 76 +/- 39 minutes per day, and infants in the SSC group were held 4.0 +/- 2.8 times per week and 79 +/- 40 minutes per day. No significant differences were observed in weight accretion or linear growth. However, exposure to SSC was associated with greater head growth, even after controlling for head circumference at birth (p =.03). SSC may increase the likelihood of successful breastfeeding.
A systematic review of randomised controlled trials evaluating the effect of mother/baby skin-to-skin care on successful breast feeding.	to examine the effects of early skin-to-skin contact between mother and baby on the initiation and duration of breast feeding.
Mammalian skin evolution: a reevaluation.	A 1972 model for the evolutionary origin of hair suggested a primary mechanoreceptor role improving behavioral thermoregulation contributed to the success of late Paleozoic mammal-like reptiles. An insulatory role appeared secondarily subsequent to protohair multiplication. That model is updated in light of new data on (a) palaeoecology of mammalian ancestors; (b) involvement of HRPs in keratinization; (c) lipogenic lamellar bodies that form the barrier to cutaneous water loss; and (d) growth factors involved in hair follicle embryogenesis and turnover. It is now proposed that multiplication of sensory protohairs caused by mutations in patterning genes initially protected the delicate barrier tissues and eventually produced the minimal morphology necessary for an insulatory pelage. The latter permitted Mesozoic mammals to occupy the nocturnal niche 'in the shadow of dinosaurs'. When the giant reptiles became extinct, mammals underwent rapid radiation and reemerged as the dominant terrestrial vertebrates.
Water immersion and EMLA cause similar digit skin wrinkling and vasoconstriction.	Water immersion skin wrinkling tests limb sympathetic vasoconstrictor function. We have recently shown that water immersion wrinkling is accompanied by digit vasoconstriction and postulated that vasoconstriction is the main underlying mechanism. To test this further, we applied vasoconstrictive cream (EMLA) to the distal digit and compared the degree of skin wrinkling and digit blood flow reduction with those after water immersion. In 25 healthy volunteers (6 male, 19 female; mean age, 35 yr) subjected to EMLA and water immersion, both clinical wrinkling scores and reduction in digit blood flow (mean of 2.01 and 2.29 cm/s, respectively) were nearly identical. Control using aqueous cream resulted in minimal skin wrinkling and nonsignificant reduction in digit artery flow (P = 0.170). These data further support that water immersion skin wrinkling is mediated by vasoconstriction. The EMLA cream patch test may develop into a useful screening test for hand sympathetic vasoconstrictor function.
Expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma1 and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma2 in visceral and subcutaneous adipose tissue of obese women.	Data regarding the expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-gamma(1) and PPAR-gamma(2) in human visceral adipose tissue (VAT) and subcutaneous adipose tissue (SAT) are conflicting. To clarify this issue, we studied 50 women who had a BMI >35 kg/m(2) were undergoing gastric reduction surgery. Phenotyping included recording of anthropometric parameters and of a biological profile. Quantification of the expression of PPAR-gamma(1) and PPAR-gamma(2) in samples of VAT and SAT was performed by real-time RT-PCR. In both SAT and VAT, the level of expression of PPAR-gamma(2) were >20-fold that of PPAR-gamma(1) (P < 0.001 for both). However, only PPAR-gamma(1) was differentially expressed, its levels in SAT being 216 +/- 34% those in VAT (P < 0.001). In a stepwise, multivariate regression analysis, the levels of PPAR-gamma(1) in both SAT and VAT were the major determinants of waist circumference (R(2) = 21% for both; P < 0.01). Finally, leptin but not PPARs appeared as the single parameter explaining the largest part of the variability of BMI in our cohort of patients (R(2) = 22%, P < 0.001). These results are consistent with the putative roles of PPAR-gamma(1) and PPAR-gamma(2) in carbohydrate metabolism and energy homeostasis, respectively. As such, they constitute an important step toward the identification of potential targets for novel therapeutic strategies in the fields of obesity.
Multiple cerebral infarcts due to varicella-zoster virus large-vessel vasculopathy in an immunocompetent adult without skin involvement.	We report the case of a 52-year-old immunocompetent man with varicella-zoster virus large-vessel vasculopathy and multiple bilateral cerebral infarcts who had no history of skin involvement. Etiologic diagnosis was made by isolation of varicella-zoster virus from a cerebrospinal fluid specimen. The patient had marked improvement in mental status after acyclovir therapy was initiated.
Biointervention makes leather processing greener: an integrated cleansing and tanning system.	The do-undo methods adopted in conventional leather processing generate huge amounts of pollutants. In other words, conventional methods employed in leather processing subject the skin/hide to wide variations in pH. Pretanning and tanning processes alone contribute more than 90% of the total pollution from leather processing. Included in this is a great deal of solid wastes such as lime and chrome sludge. In the approach described here, the hair and flesh removal as well as fiber opening have been achieved using biocatalysts at pH 8.0 for cow hides. This was followed by a pickle-free chrome tanning, which does not require a basification step. Hence, this tanning technique involves primarily three steps, namely, dehairing, fiber opening, and tanning. It has been found that the extent of hair removal, opening up of fiber bundles, and penetration and distribution of chromium are comparable to that produced by traditional methods. This has been substantiated through scanning electron microscopic, stratigraphic chrome distribution analysis, and softness measurements. Performance of the leathers is shown to be on par with conventionally processed leathers through physical and hand evaluation. Importantly, softness of the leathers is numerically proven to be comparable with that of control. The process also demonstrates reduction in chemical oxygen demand load by 80%, total solids load by 85%, and chromium load by 80% as compared to the conventional process, thereby leading toward zero discharge. The input-output audit shows that the biocatalytic three-step tanning process employs a very low amount of chemicals, thereby reducing the discharge by 90% as compared to the conventional multistep processing. Furthermore, it is also demonstrated that the process is technoeconomically viable.
Interference between pathway-specific transcription factors: glucocorticoids antagonize phorbol ester-induced AP-1 activity without altering AP-1 site occupation in vivo.	Phorbol esters stimulate and glucocorticoid hormones down-regulate a variety of promoters such as that of the collagenase gene through the transcription factor AP-1 (Fos/Jun). We now show by genomic footprinting of the collagenase promoter that phorbol ester treatment of cells results in the binding of AP-1 to its cognate DNA binding site in vivo. The DNA-protein contacts obtained in living cells are also found in vitro using cloned DNA and purified AP-1. Although in vitro synthesized glucocorticoid receptor can disturb the DNA binding of Jun homodimers, it does not interfere with the binding of Fos-Jun heterodimers or of purified AP-1 in vitro. Consistently, fully inhibitory doses of glucocorticoid hormone cause no change in apparent occupation of the AP-1 binding site in vivo. The hormone receptor acts without itself binding to DNA.
Mortality rate from skin cancer.	Cancer of the glabrous skin (exclusive of cancer of the superficial mucous membranes, melanoma, sarcoma and other rare skin tumors) is a highly curable disease. However, the mortality rate based on United States Public Health Service statistics for the State of California and an analysis of 35 fatalities occurring in 2,122 cases as observed over a 20-year period in the Visible Tumor Clinic at the University of California, is approximately 1.65 per cent to 1.75 per cent. Skin cancer could theoretically approach a 100 per cent cure rate with two simple rules: Firstly, the patient should seek proper medical advice early for all suspicious growths, moles or warts. Secondly, after an exact diagnosis is made by biopsy, the first treatment given by the physician, whether surgical, chemosurgical, electrosurgical or x-ray, should be complete and adequate, for the first time is the "golden opportunity" for cure.
Characteristics of the alpha 2/beta-adrenoceptor-coupled adenylate cyclase system and their relationship with adrenergic responsiveness in hamster fat cells from different anatomical sites.	Various studies have shown that the lipolytic response of white adipocytes to catecholamines was dependent on the anatomical origin of these cells. To provide a biological explanation for this phenomenon, we compared hamster white adipocytes, from femoral subcutaneous and epididymal fat, for their lipolytic activities, cAMP responses and adrenoceptor-coupled adenylate cyclase system. Basal and maximal lipolytic responses to the beta-adrenergic (isoproterenol) and the mixed alpha 2/beta-adrenergic (epinephrine) agonists were lower in femoral subcutaneous cells than in epididymal cells, but the alpha 2-adrenergic antilipolytic response to 5-bromo-6-(2-imidazolin-2-ylamino)quinoxaline bi-tartate (UK14304) was slightly greater in femoral subcutaneous fat cells than in epididymal fat cells. Identical results were observed for cAMP responses, except for the alpha 2-adrenergic inhibitory response which was identical in both fat deposits. Adrenoceptors studies revealed higher density of inhibitory alpha 2-adrenoceptors 2-(2-methoxy-1,4-benzodioxan-2-yl)-2-imidazoline ([3H]RX821002-binding sites) in femoral subcutaneous fat cells than in epididymal fat cells, but identical density of stimulatory beta-adrenoceptors (125I-cyanopindolol-binding sites) and similar subdivision into beta-adrenoceptor subtypes in both adipose deposits. Finally, the level of the alpha-subunits of the stimulatory and inhibitors guanine-nucleotide-binding regulatory proteins, as well as the adenylate cyclase catalytic activity were 40-50% lower in femoral subcutaneous fat cell membranes than in epididymal fat cell membranes. These results suggest that the differences in cAMP and lipolytic responses to catecholamines between epididymal and femoral subcutaneous adipocytes result at least in part from site-related differences in the adenylate cyclase system rather than in the adrenoceptor status.
Genotypic analysis of N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea-induced mutations by Taq I restriction fragment length polymorphism/polymerase chain reaction in the c-H-ras1 gene.	In genotypic mutation analysis DNA sequence changes are determined without the in vivo or in vitro selection of phenotypically altered cells. We have studied the induction of base-pair changes by N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea in Taq I endonuclease recognition site 2508-2511 (TCGA) of the c-H-ras1 gene in human fibroblasts by the restriction fragment length polymorphism/polymerase chain reaction (RFLP/PCR) method. This site contains the four bases, and all 12 possible single base-pair changes can be monitored. The transition of guanine to adenine at position 2510 was the major mutation detected by lambda plaque oligonucleotide hybridization and quantitative sequence analysis of the RFLP/PCR products. It involves the G residue of the CpG sequence of the coding strand. Data calibration with an internal mutant standard indicates that absolute frequencies for this transition lie in the range of 4-12 x 10(-7). The present study documents the capacity of the RFLP/PCR approach to measure mutagen-induced base-pair changes in a specific gene sequence without the selection of a phenotypically altered cell.
Sexual abuse of children. The detection of semen on skin.	The detection of semen on the skin of children who present within 72 hours of an episode of sexual assault is critical to medical, forensic, and legal personnel. The Wood's Lamp, a UV light that causes semen to fluoresce, and four forensic laboratory techniques were compared to determine their sensitivity and decline in sensitivity over time.
MULTIPLICATION OF BRUCELLA IN CULTURED LYMPHOID AND NONLYMPHOID CELLS.	Richardson, Marvis (Michigan State University, East Lansing), and Jane N. Holt. Multiplication of Brucella in cultured lymphoid and nonlymphoid cells. J. Bacteriol. 88:1163-1168. 1964.-Growth curves were established for the multiplication of Brucella abortus in cultured bovine cells. The number of viable brucellae was determined by colony count after lysis of the parasitized tissue cells. It was found that the number of brucellae dropped during the first 3 to 6 hr. This was followed by intracellular growth. Brucellae multiplied in uterine mucosal and fetal skin cells at an exponential rate with a 4-hr generation time. In contrast, only limited multiplication occurred in spleen cell cultures, usually approaching the stationary phase by 20 to 30 hr. Preliminary results indicated an average generation time of 8 hr in calf spleen cells. Differences were apparent in the ability of spleen cells from individual calves to support intracellular growth. This suggests that a relationship may exist between the establishment of intracellular pathogens in vitro and the natural resistance of the animal. By the use of fluorescein-labeled antisera, some insight was gained into the fate of brucellae in lymphoid cells. Fluorescent antisera stained intact brucellae and also revealed soluble antigen in the cytoplasm of reticularlike cells.
INTRAVASCULAR ENDOTHELIOMA (ENDOTHELIOMA IN SITU, SYSTEMIC ENDOTHELIOMATOSIS).	A woman aged 48 years was found to be suffering from intravascular endothelioma. The initial clinical presentation was the presence of red, painless swellings in the skin of the lower limbs. The other clinical features, and the histological changes in skin biopsies, are described and compared with those in the two previously reported patients. It is suggested that the condition is analogous to the pre-invasive carcinomatous states.
BIOCHEMICAL INVESTIGATION OF HISTIDINAEMIA.	A 6-month-old child with a history of recurrent infections, convulsions, and retarded development had biochemical findings which were typical of histidinaemia. The enzyme histidase has been shown to be absent from the skin of the patient. The results of histidine-loading experiments in the parents of the child suggest that they may both metabolise this amino-acid abnormally. A simple method of estimating histidine in plasma and urine is described.
IN VITRO STUDIES OF CELLULAR HYPERSENSITIVITY. II. RELATIONSHIP OF DELAYED HYPERSENSITIVITY AND INHIBITION OF CELL MIGRATION BY PICRYLATED PROTEINS.	Some characteristics of inhibition of cell migration induced in tissue culture by the addition of specific antigen were studied. The following characteristics were found to be shared by this type of cellular hypersensitivity and delayed cutaneous sensitivity: 1. Specificity for the carrier moiety of haptene protein conjugates. The picryl protein conjugate used to sensitize guinea pigs inhibited migration of monocytic cells from these animals. Other picrylated proteins produced little inhibition. 2. Enhancement by mycobacterial adjuvants. Incorporation of tubercle bacilli with picrylated proteins in adjuvant-antigen emulsions stimulated the development of this cellular hypersensitivity to antigen. 3. Independence of circulating antibody. In contrast to cellular hypersensitivity, serum antibody (a) reacted with any of a number of picrylated proteins, (b) developed well in the absence of mycobacterial adjuvant, and (c) persisted in unchanged titer for 5 weeks in animals sensitized with saline solutions of antigen. During this time cellular hypersensitivity decreased remarkably. The in vitro system described provides a direct method to measure cell-antigen interaction and permits study of an aspect of the immune response not mediated by humoral antibody. The relation of cellular hypersensitivity to antibody formation and delayed hypersensitivity is discussed.
SOURCE AND PORTAL OF ENTRY OF BACTERIA FOUND IN BRUISED POULTRY TISSUE.	Bacteriological studies revealed that normal tissue, air sacs, feathers, skin of birds, poultry feed, gut, and chicken droppings were sources of the predominant organisms, including staphylococci, found in bruised poultry tissue. Further investigation of normal tissue revealed that after the intramuscular injection of Staphylococcus aureus, marker strain (MS), the organism was eliminated from these tissues within 7 days. However, when these tissues were traumatized 3 days after injection, the number of the test organism increased, and the organism was present on the 7th day after inoculation. Poultry feed and fecal material contained a large number of staphylococci identical to those isolated from bruised tissue (McCarthy, Brown, and Hamdy, 1963), thereby implicating the gut as a possible portal of entry. When a pathogenic marker strain of S. aureus was established in the intestinal tract of chickens by administering an active culture of this organism either in their drinking water or by gavage, it was recovered from the traumatized tissue. The incidence of positive culture of S. aureus MS in these tissues correlated with age of bruise, reaching 22 to 33% immediately after contusion and at the early stages of healing (1 to 3 days post bruise) and decreasing thereafter from 11 to 0% on the 4th through 6th days after bruise infliction. The air sac was also found to be a site by which bacteria may enter the traumatized tissues, but to a limited extent.
A STUDY OF THE STRUCTURE AND DISTRIBUTION OF THE NEXUS.	Nexuses, that is, fusions of plasma membranes of adjacent cells, are described in mammalian smooth and cardiac muscle, median giant axon of earthworm, frog skin, and rat submandibular gland. In smooth muscle they usually occur where a process from one cell either meets a process of, or projects into a neighboring cell. On the other hand, in mammalian heart muscle and in earthworm giant axon the nexuses occur along the intercalated disc and intercellular segmental septa, respectively. Their occurrence between these excitable cells is correlated with propagation of action potentials by an electrical rather than chemical mechanism. Since the nexuses may offer pathways for electric current between cell interiors, it seems possible that they constitute a link in the structural basis for electrical transmission in these systems. In epithelia, nexuses usually appear as part of a terminal bar complex. This is true in the rat salivary gland studied here. In the epidermis of frog skin, nexuses are less numerous between the basilar columnar cells than between the subjacent squamous cells. The nexuses which occur in epithelia in frog skin and rat salivary gland are distributed as though to provide seals against electrochemical backleaks and sites of chemical exchange between cell interiors.
Tissue-specific regulation of proliferative processes in the tissues normally and in pathology: on the problem of chalones]	The paper discusses the author's own and literary data on the role of chalones (tissue-specific inhibitors of proliferative processes) in the maintenance of tissue homeostasis normally and pathologically. It is suggested that chalones be used both as regulators of cell multiplication and as markers of histogenesis.
The effect of cortisone on the Shwartzman reaction; the production of lesions resembling the dermal and generalized Shwartzman reactions by a single injection of bacterial toxin in cortisone-treated rabbits.	1. Cortisone, in a dose of 25 mg. daily and with a pretreatment period of 3 days, in rabbits weighing 1 to 1.5 kilos, did not inhibit the dermal Shwartzman reaction produced by meningococcal or S. marcescens toxin. 2. In cortisone-treated rabbits, a single intradermal injection of toxin produced a primary reaction of hemorrhage and necrosis in the skin at the injected site. This lesion resembled the Shwartzman reaction in its gross and histological appearance. 3. Like the Shwartzman reaction, the primary hemorrhagic reaction in cortisone-treated rabbits was prevented by nitrogen mustard, and the preventive effect of nitrogen mustard was partly eliminated when the femoral marrow was protected against the latter agent. 4. A single intravenous injection of meningococcal or S. marcescens toxin, in cortisone-treated rabbits, was followed by bilateral cortical necrosis of the kidneys in the majority of instances. The renal lesions, as well as hemorrhages in the lungs, spleen, liver, and gastrointestinal tract, resembled the lesions of the generalized Shwartzman reaction. Histologically, the glomerular capillaries in both types appeared to be occluded by homogeneous, eosinophilic material which showed a strongly positive Schiff reaction. 5. The renal lesion following a single injection of toxin in cortisone-treated animals, and that following two intravenous injections in the generalized Shwartzman reaction, were both completely prevented by nitrogen mustard. This effect of nitrogen mustard was inhibited when the femoral marrow was protected against the latter agent. 6. The injection of S. marcescens toxin into the skin of normal rabbits did not cause systemic symptoms, nor was it possible to provoke the generalized Shwartzman reaction by this route. In cortisone-treated rabbits, a similar intradermal injection was regularly followed by the development of bilateral cortical necrosis of the kidneys, indicating that absorption of toxin from the skin occurred in these animals. 7. Possible mechanisms to account for the observations are discussed. The authors are obliged to Professor James R. Dawson for many helpful suggestions during the course of this investigation.
Serial transplantation of rabbit papillomas caused by the shope virus.	Two cutaneous papillomas produced with the Shope virus in adult domestic rabbits were transferred to their leg muscles and thence to those of several successive groups of rabbits of various ages. The growths failed to establish themselves in some newborn animals, but in many formed huge masses, immobilizing the legs with result in early death. Not infrequently they did well for months after their hosts had matured, yet nevertheless they failed regularly on further transfer in adults. They were eventually lost because left long prior to passage on the supposition that they might gain the ability to succeed in mature hosts. The papillomas when growing actively sometimes penetrated the reactive tissue encapsulating them and replaced the adjacent muscle. They often entered lymph and blood vessels but never metastasized, nor did they undergo carcinomatous change though their total period of proliferation was as considerable as that elapsing in many instances before cancer appeared in papillomas produced by the same virus material and left on the skin.
Power ultrasound-assisted cleaner leather dyeing technique: influence of process parameters.	The application of power ultrasound to leather processing has a significant role in the concept of "clean technology" for leather production. The effect of power ultrasound in leather dyeing has been compared with dyeing in the absence of ultrasound and conventional drumming. The power ultrasound source used in these experiments was ultrasonic cleaner (150 W and 33 kHz). The effect of various process parameters such as amount of dye offer, temperature, and type of dye has been experimentally found out. The effect of presonication of dye solution as well as leather has been studied. Experiments at ultrasonic bath temperature were carried out to find out the combined thermal as well as stirring effects of ultrasound. Dyeing in the presence of ultrasound affords about 37.5 (1.8 times) difference as increase in % dye exhaustion or about 50% decrease in the time required for dyeing compared to dyeing in the absence of ultrasound for 4% acid red dye. About 29 (1.55 times) increase in % dye exhaustion or 30% reduction in time required for dyeing was observed using ultrasound at stationary condition compared with conventional dynamic drumming conditions. The effect of ultrasound at constant temperature conditions with a control experiment has also been studied. The dye exhaustion increases as the temperature increases (30-60 degrees C) and better results are observed at higher temperature due to the use of ultrasound. Presonication of dye solution or crust leather prior to the dyeing process has no significant improvement in dye exhaustion, suggesting ultrasound effect is realized when it is applied during the dyeing process. The results indicate that 1697 and 1416 ppm of dye can be reduced in the spent liquor due to the use of ultrasound for acid red (for 100 min) and acid black (for 3 h) dyes, respectively, thereby reducing the pollution load in the effluent stream. The color yield of the leather as inferred from the reflectance measurement indicates that dye offer can be halved when ultrasound is employed to promote dyeing. Scanning electron microscopy analysis of the cross section of the dyed leather indicates that fiber structure is not affected due to the use of ultrasound under the given process conditions. The present study clearly demonstrates that ultrasound can be used as a tool to improve the rate of exhaustion of dye, reduce pollution load in the spent effluent liquor, and improve the quality of leather produced. The study also offered provision to employ optimum levels of chemicals and increases percentage exhaustion for a given time, thereby limiting the pollution load in the tannery effluent, which is of great social concern.
Patient dose measurement with fluorescent glass dosimeter: characteristics evaluation and patient skin dose measurement in abdominal interventional radiology]	In this study, we investigated the usefulness of the fluorescent glass dosimeter for measuring patient dose. The fluorescent glass dosimeter is constructed of a glass element and its holder. One type has a tin (Sn) filter and the other does not. The characteristics of these two types of fluorescent glass dosimeters were studied in the range of diagnostic X-ray energy. The result was excellent for each characteristic. Directional dependency, however, was recognized in the fluorescent glass dosimeter with tin (Sn) filter. Based on these evaluations, patient skin dose was measured for abdominal interventional radiology and diagnostic digital subtraction angiography using the holder without filter, which is less direction-dependent and eliminates obstructive shadows in radiography and fluoroscopy. The average skin dose of 30 patients for abdominal IVR was 1.17+/-0.44 Gy (0.51-1.94 Gy), while those for diagnostic DSA examination was 0.54+/-0.21 Gy (0.15-1.02 Gy). The fluorescent glass dosimeter provides high capability for skin dose measurement. The fluorescent glass dosimeter is also useful for controlling patient dose during IVR procedures.
Variability of task-based dermal exposure measurements from a variety of workplaces.	The RISKOFDERM project collected task-based estimates of potential dermal exposure from a wide range of industries and services from around Europe. A formal statistical analysis was carried out to explore the main components of variability in dermal exposure levels. The central research question was to what extent dermal exposure levels could be explained by generic grouping variables like 'exposure scenarios' and 'dermal exposure operation units' (DEOs) (grouping of scenarios on the basis of similarity in exposure patterns).
Dermal exposure to chromium in the grinding of stainless and acid-proof steel.	The aim of the study was to measure the dermal exposure levels of chromium dust during grinding of stainless and acid-proof steel parts.
Dermal exposure to styrene in the fibreglass reinforced plastics industry.	The aim of this study was to assess the potential dermal exposure to styrene in the fibreglass reinforced plastics industry.
Dermal exposure to electroplating fluids and metalworking fluids in the UK.	This paper describes workplace dermal exposure measurements that were carried out by the Health and Safety Laboratory as part of the EU RISKOFDERM project. Exposure to metalworking fluids (MWFs) was measured at three sites on 25 subjects who were 'mechanically treating solid objects' as they loaded and supervised milling and boring machines and lathes. Thirty-one samples were obtained, of which 18 were exposures to neat mineral oils and 13 to water-oil mixes. All subjects wore Tyvek whole-body oversuits that were analysed in their entirety to extract the MWF. The geometric mean surface loading rate of the 31 oversuits was 62 micro g/cm(2)/h (GSD = 4.6) and of the seven pairs of sampling gloves (worn inside protective gloves) was 2900 micro g/cm(2)/h (GSD = 1.67). Exposure to electroplating fluids was measured at three sites on 27 subjects who were dipping objects into tanks of either chromic acid, nickel sulphate, copper sulphate, copper cyanide or zinc hydroxide. All subjects wore Tyvek whole-body oversuits that were surface scanned over their areas using a portable X-ray fluorescence spectrometer to detect all the metal atoms simultaneously. Contamination was assessed using the method of Dirichlet tessellation. The geometric mean surface loading rate of the 26 oversuits was 37 micro g/cm(2)/h (GSD = 3.5) and of the 25 pairs of sampling gloves (worn inside protective gloves) was 190 micro g/cm(2)/h (GSD = 2.75). Almost all of the electroplating samples were below the limit of quantification. More than one species of metal atoms was found on some of the samples afterwards, indicating cross-contamination from other baths during the sampling period.
Dermal exposure during filling, loading and brushing with products containing 2-(2-butoxyethoxy)ethanol.	Limited quantitative information is available on dermal exposure to chemicals during various industrial activities. Therefore, within the scope of the EU-funded RISKOFDERM project, potential dermal exposure was measured during three different tasks: filling, loading and brushing. DEGBE (2-(2-butoxyethoxy)ethanol) was used as a 'marker' substance to determine dermal exposure to the products that workers were handling.
Potential dermal exposure during the painting process in car body repair shops.	The object of this study was to assess potential dermal exposure to the non-volatile fractions of paints based on studies assessing potential exposure during the painting process in car body repair shops with water-based paints. The measurements were done during filling of the spray gun, paint spraying and cleaning of the gun. Potential dermal exposure was assessed using patches and gloves as dosimeters and analysing deposits of aluminium, a constituent of the paint mixture, which is used as a chemical tracer for these studies. The total body area used excluding hands was 18 720 cm(2) and the area of each hand was 410 cm(2). Dermal exposure to the paint during filling of the spray gun occurs mainly on the hands and ranged from 0.68 to 589 micro g paint/cm(2)/min, as calculated from the amount of aluminium observed and the concentration of aluminium in the paint. During spraying, the levels of exposure of the hands and body ranged from 0.20 to 4.35 micro g paint/cm(2)/min for the body and 0.40 to 13.4 micro g paint/cm(2)/min for the hands. With cleaning of the spray gun the hands were the principal area exposed, with values ranging from 0.44 to 213 micro g paint/cm(2)/min. Information on and observations of each of the scenarios were recorded in a structured questionnaire.
Occupational dermal exposure to cyclophosphamide in Dutch hospitals: a pilot study.	Several studies have shown that exposure to antineoplastic drugs can cause reproductive toxic effects as well as carcinogenic effects. Presence of these drugs in the urine of hospital personnel has been widely studied and some work has been done on exposure by inhalation. So far, assessment of dermal exposure to antineoplastic drugs has not been extensively studied. In this pilot study we assessed potential and actual dermal exposure for several common hospital tasks. Results were used to derive an optimal measurement strategy for a currently ongoing exposure survey.
Determination of dermal exposures during mixing, spraying and wiping activities.	Dermal exposure measurements were collected as part of RISKOFDERM, a European dermal exposure study which aims to improve the understanding of the nature and range of dermal exposures to hazardous substances throughout the European Union. Exposure measurements were collected to enable a predictive model to be developed for regulatory risk assessment purposes. In this paper dermal exposure data are presented for three generic job tasks: spray painting, wiping surfaces and mixing/dilution of formulations. The particular workplace settings included a dockyard and three medical laboratories. In the dockyard the tasks involved spray application and mixing of anti-foulant paint. For laboratory workers the observed tasks were preparation of biocide solution and wiping of surfaces with the disinfectant. Each dermal exposure measurement was derived from the mass of trace analyte on cotton gloves and 11 fabric patches, which were cut from whole-body dosimeters, representing the main anatomical areas of the body. The percentage mass of trace analyte in the formulation was determined by analysis to enable the total mass of the product on the anatomical areas to be calculated. The sampling periods were recorded to enable calculation of the dermal exposure rate, which is expressed as micro g total formulation/cm(2)/h. The geometric mean dermal exposure rate for the hands during spray painting was 2760 micro g/cm(2)/h (n = 24). The exposure rate for the rest of the body was 175 micro g/cm(2)/h (n = 35). Mixing of the paint involved higher exposure rates for both the hands and body, with a geometric mean of 31 200 micro g/cm(2)/h (n = 9) for the hands and 327 micro g/cm(2)/h (n = 14) for the rest of the body. For small-scale routine disinfection of surfaces using small quantities of biocide the principal anatomical area affected was the hands, with a geometric mean dermal exposure rate of 1840 micro g/cm(2)/h (n = 6). During systematic disinfection of laboratory surfaces with larger quantities of the biocide solution, the geometric mean dermal exposure rate for the hands was increased to 139 000 micro g/cm(2)/h (n = 24). In this case there was increased exposure of the body: principally the arms, legs, chest and head. The measured dermal exposure rate during preparation of the biocides (mixing) was very low, with a geometric mean value for the hands of 13 micro g/cm(2)/h (n = 16). There was a high level of variability observed in the results within each task. It is suggested that dermal exposures are partly dependent on human behaviour and on the occurrence of accidental contact with contaminated surfaces. This makes interpretation of the results difficult for predictive risk assessment purposes.
Dermal exposure to dry powder spray paints using PXRF and the method of Dirichlet tesselations.	This paper describes workplace dermal exposure measurements that were carried out by the Health and Safety Laboratory as part of the EU RISKOFDERM project to measure dust contamination. Exposure to dry powder spray paints was measured at five sites on 12 subjects. Twenty-two samples were obtained, of which eight contained triglycidyl isocyanurate (TGIC) and 14 did not. All subjects wore Tyvek whole body oversuits and some wore sampling gloves. These were either analysed in their entirety to extract the TGIC or surface scanned over representative areas using a portable X-ray fluorescence spectrometer (PXRF) to detect barium or titanium in the fillers of the paints. The method of Dirichlet tessellation was used to map the scans and the technique was developed further for these studies to extend measurements to gloves and to take limits of detection into consideration. The PXRF allowed dusts to be measured in situ that would otherwise be difficult to extract from the material and analyse by other means. The geometric mean surface loading rate of the 22 oversuits was 43 micro g/cm/(2)/h (GSD = 6.0) and of the 23 pairs of sampling gloves was 970 micro g/cm(2)/h (GSD = 8.6). Exposure patterns could be attributed to the arrangements of the subjects, spray booths and the workpieces. Similar exposures were found for TGIC and titanium fillers in factories with similar methods of ventilation.
Dermal exposure to terpenic resin acids in Swedish carpentry workshops and sawmills.	The aim of this study was to evaluate dermal exposure to the resin acids abietic acid, dehydroabietic acid and 7-oxodehydroabietic acid during collecting in sawmills and during sawing in carpentry workshops, respectively.
Dermal exposure to chromium in electroplating.	The aim of the study was to measure the dermal and respiratory exposure levels of hexavalent chromium during electroplating work.
Patterns of dermal exposure to hazardous substances in European union workplaces.	Workplace dermal exposure assessment is a complex task that aims to understand the dynamic interaction between the skin and the hazardous substances present in the surrounding environment. A European project known as RISKOFDERM gathered dermal exposure data in 85 workplaces (industrial and other types) in five countries in Europe. In order to optimize data collection and to develop a representative picture of dermal exposure, scenarios (tasks made up of a series of activities) were grouped together into dermal exposure operation units (DEOs). The allocation of scenarios to relevant DEOs was achieved on the basis of similarities of exposure routes, tasks and professional judgement. Sampling and quantification procedures were based on the approaches recommended by the OECD protocol. The laboratories involved in the analysis of the samples participated in quality assurance programmes. This exercise resulted in 419 body measurements and 437 measurements on hands expressed in terms of formulation (product) in use. Exposures for a given scenario varied by several orders of magnitude. The extent and patterns of exposure were found to be dependent on various exposure determinants, including inter- and intra-scenario variations. Hands were found to be the most contaminated parts of the body. Exposure patterns for liquid and solid contaminants were different. On the basis of the analysis of the data presented here, the averaged results (median and 95th percentile) for a given DEO unit should not be used as a representative measure of dermal exposure for all scenarios within that DEO without taking the exposure determinants into account. However, the data could be used to develop an exposure matrix (indicative exposure distributions) for different types of scenario and workplace, using determinants of exposure and a Bayesian approach to integrating expert opinion.
Evaluation of a pneumatically driven tactile stimulator device for vision substitution during fMRI studies.	Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiments on tactile perception are difficult to perform because the special characteristics of an MRI environment restrict the experimental setup. Although recently developed actuators have made it possible to apply vibrotactile stimuli to the skin during an fMRI experiment, the projection of spatially extended patterns is still precluded. In order to examine the processing of tactile perception, a new pneumatically-driven tactile device (PTD) has been built. This device is capable of stimulating the skin, using arbitrary time sequences that consist of 2D tactile images up to 64 pixels. It is shown how the device is implemented in a 2 T fMRI environment, and show that it operates without generating artifacts. Dedicated software allows the generation of complex paradigms and provides a user-friendly interface to other brain mapping systems, as well as automated operation. This paper describes the PTD elucidates its features, and demonstrate its reliability by reporting results from an fMRI study based on an event-related protocol involving six subjects.
Use of optical coherence tomography to monitor biological tissue freezing during cryosurgery.	The use of optical coherence tomography (OCT) for imaging skin during cryosurgery is evaluated. OCT provides high spatial resolution (5-10 microm) images of optical backscattering due to local variations in refractive index, such as the boundary between liquid and frozen water in tissue. Time resolved OCT images were acquired during freezing of water, Intralipid trade mark, and in vivo hamster skin. Subsurface morphological changes were evident only during freezing of Intralipid and skin. A simple thermal model was applied which predicted freezing times on the same order of magnitude as those observed in OCT images. OCT can be used as a feedback tool during cryosurgical procedures to monitor progression of the freezing front.
Technique for percutaneous insertion of intramedullary nail for intertrochanteric hip fracture.	Intramedullary nailing has been proven to have biomechanical advantages over the use of a side plate and screw system. Further advantages may be gained with the use of a percutaneous technique, thereby minimizing blood loss, operative time, and overall morbidity. This article describes a technique for inserting an intramedullary nail percutaneously using a minimal-incision technique by utilizing fluoroscopy in cases of intertrochanteric hip fracture.
Life cycle assessment as a tool for the environmental improvement of the tannery industry in developing countries.	A representative leather tannery industry in a Latin American developing country has been studied from an environmental point of view, including both technical and economic analysis. Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) methodology has been used for the quantification and evaluation of the impacts of the chromium tanning process as a basis to propose further improvement actions. Four main subsystems were considered: beamhouse, tanyard, retanning, and wood furnace. Damages to human health, ecosystem quality, and resources are mainly produced by the tanyard subsystem. The control and reduction of chromium and ammonia emissions are the critical points to be considered to improve the environmental performance of the process. Technologies available for improved management of chromium tanning were profoundly studied, and improvement actions related to optimized operational conditions and a high exhaustion chrome-tanning process were selected. These actions related to the implementation of internal procedures affected the economy of the process with savings ranging from US dollars 8.63 to US dollars 22.5 for the processing of 1 ton of wet salt hides, meanwhile the global environmental impact was reduced to 44-50%. Moreover, the treatment of wastewaters was considered in two scenarios. Primary treatment presented the largest reduction of the environmental impact of the tanning process, while no significant improvement for the evaluated impact categories was achieved when combining primary and secondary treatments.
Combined oxidative and biological treatment of separated streams of tannery wastewater.	Leather tanning effluents are a source of severe environmental impacts. In particular, the unhairing stage, belonging to the beamhouse processes, generates an alkaline wastewater with high concentrations of organic matter, sulphides, suspended solids, and salts, which shows significant toxicity. The objective of this work was to evaluate the biodegradation of this industrial wastewater by combined oxidative and biological treatments. An advanced oxidation process (AOP) with Fenton's reagent was used as batch pretreatment. The relationships of H2O2/Fe2+ and H2O2/COD were 9 and 4, respectively, reaching an organic matter removal of about 90%. Subsequently, the oxidised beamhouse effluent was fed to an activated sludge system, at increasing organic load rates (OLR), in the range of 0.4 to 1.6 g COD/L x day. The biological organic matter removal of the pre-treated wastewater ranged between 35% and 60% for COD, and from 60% to 70% for BOD. Therefore, sequential AOP pretreatment and biological aerobic treatment increased the overall COD removal up to 96%, compared to 60% without pretreatment. Bioassays with D. magna and D. pulex showed that this kind of treatment achieves only a partial toxicity removal of the tannery effluent.
Possible involvement of AMP-activated protein kinase in obesity resistance induced by respiratory uncoupling in white fat.	The AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) cascade is a sensor of cellular energy charge that promotes catabolic and inhibits anabolic pathways. However, the role of AMPK in adipocytes is poorly understood. We show that transgenic expression of mitochondrial uncoupling protein 1 in white fat, which induces obesity resistance in mice, is associated with depression of cellular energy charge, activation of AMPK, downregulation of adipogenic genes, and increase in lipid oxidation. Activation of AMPK may explain the complex metabolic changes in adipose tissue of these animals and our results support a role for adipocyte AMPK in the regulation of storage of body fat.
Ozonation of nonbiodegradable organics in tannery wastewater.	The study explores the impact of ozonation on the fate of different soluble COD fractions in the tannery wastewater at different phases during the course of biological treatment, in order to identify the phase where ozonation is likely to generate the maximum beneficial effect on biological treatability. Samples from the biological treatment influent and from the mixed liquor at periods significant for the fate of COD fractions have been ozonated. Ozone treatment at the phase where the readily biodegradable COD component was biologically depleted is determined as the most promising alternative among others, since the highest COD removal efficiencies are achieved even with low feeding time of 5 min at the selected ozone flow-rate of 42.8 mg min. The merit of ozonation at this stage in the formation of simpler more biodegradable compounds deserves further attention.
Treatment of tannery wastewater with high nitrogen content using anoxic/oxic membrane bio-reactor (MBR).	Bench scale membrane bio-reactors were operated to investigate the treatment efficiency of tannery wastewater with high organic and nitrogen contents and the optimum operating conditions were derived. The optimum ratio of the volume of anoxic denitrification tank to aerobic nitrification tank was 50% when denitification/nitrication MBR process was used to treat tannery wastewater. It was also found that supplementation of phosphorus to maintain COD:T-P ratio of 100:1 was needed to achieve the best performance. Under these conditions, the effluent COD and T-N were 160 and 54 mg/L, respectively which satisfied the effluent limits for the tannery wastewater.
Performance of magnesium ammonium phosphate precipitation and its effect on biological treatability of leather tanning industry wastewaters.	Leather tanning industry is one of the several industries discharging significant amount of nitrogen. Magnesium ammonium phosphate (MAP) precipitation is a promising pretreatment for leather tanning industry wastewaters for the control of toxic parameters; excess suspended solids as well as nitrogen which increase the cost and complexity of following biological treatment. Application of MAP precipitation, however, modifies the characteristics and biological treatability of wastewaters. In this study, characteristics and biological treatability of MAP precipitation effluent were experimentally investigated using the wastewaters obtained from a bovine leather processing plant. An experimental study involving the determination of COD fractions and kinetic parameters of biological treatment was conducted for both gravity settling and MAP precipitation. Results of the study indicated that MAP precipitation, in addition to high degree of nitrogen removal, yielded a soluble, readily biodegradable effluent which was also free from toxics. MAP precipitation provided an effluent COD of almost half of that of gravity settling. Reduced value of soluble residual microbial products (Sp) obtained with MAP precipitation effluent was an additional benefit.
Common effluent treatment plant (CETP) for wastewater management from a cluster of small scale tanneries.	Effluent treatment plants need land for construction, capital cost, power and specialized manpower for their operation and maintenance. Because of these constraints, small scale tanneries can not afford to have their own effluent treatment facilities and therefore, combined effluent from all tanneries are to be brought to a centralized place for treatment. This facility is called a Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP). For operation and maintenance of CETP, small scale tanners formed a co-operative society. The expenses for operation and maintenance of CETP are being shared by participating tanneries. Wastewater management for the cluster of small scale tanneries was studied in details and various measures were incorporated to improve performance of the CETP and also to improve treated effluent quality to confirm standard prescribed by regulatory agencies. Performance of existing CETP was evaluated. Based on the results, bench scale laboratory treatability studies were conducted for improvement in treated effluent quality and also to suggest appropriate modifications to the CETP. These studies are detailed in this paper.
Randomized controlled trial of skin-to-skin contact from birth versus conventional incubator for physiological stabilization in 1200- to 2199-gram newborns.	Conventional care of prematurely born infants involves extended maternal-infant separation and incubator care. Recent research has shown that separation causes adverse effects. Maternal-infant skin-to-skin contact (SSC) provides an alternative habitat to the incubator, with proven benefits for stable prematures; this has not been established for unstable or newborn low-birthweight infants. SSC from birth was therefore compared to incubator care for infants between 1200 and 2199 g at birth.
Towards a cleaner production in developing countries: a case study in a Chilean tannery.	A Chilean leather tanning industry (tannery) was studied in terms of input/output (I/O) analysis of beamhouse, tanyard and retanning processes. The physical-chemical characterization of 19 streams were investigated. Streams from the beamhouse process and some streams from the retanning process were found to have high organic contents ranging from 2.5 to 18.1 g COD L(-1). The pH ranged between 3.45 and 12.28. Sulphur was found in most of the streams whereas chromium was detected in two wastewaters from the tanyard and in seven streams from the retanning process. Pollution prevention opportunities were evaluated and an appropriate treatment strategy was proposed. The main emphasis was on determining waste reduction measures that can be easily implemented and are not particularly expensive. Measures for reduction at source were proposed to reduce water and chemicals consumption and wastewater pollution. A so-called S(index) strategy was used to evaluate proposals on segregation and specific treatment of the main chromium- and sulphur-containing wastewaters. It was suggested that some streams may be re-used, but it is necessary to apply anaerobic or aerobic treatment first, depending on their organic load. Solid wastes were also evaluated and a proposal for their reduction and disposal was made.
Age-related molecular polymorphism of the heterodimeric proteoglycan Bisdermican.	Bisdermican (PG760) is a large, heterodimeric, dermatan sulfate proteoglycan found in selected basement membranes, smooth muscle cell layers, and different extracellular matrices. Age-dependent and developmentally regulated alterations in glycosaminoglycan structure and quantity have been shown to be functionally relevant for a number of physiological and pathological processes. Bisdermican was purified from human skin fibroblast cultures of different age and confluency. Following beta-elimination, glycosaminoglycan chains were analyzed by Sephacryl-S-300 chromatography. Glycosaminoglycan chains of Bisdermican from infantile fibroblasts had a molecular weight of 19 kDa, whereas the glycosaminoglycan chain of the large Bisdermican subunit purified from confluent fetal fibroblast secretions was slightly larger (Mr = 24 kDa). Bisdermican derived from subconfluent cultures of fetal fibroblasts displayed the largest glycosaminoglycan chains with a molecular weight of 31.5 kDa for the large subunit, and a molecular weight of 22 kDa for the small subunit. Thus, Bisdermican displays a molecular polymorphism that is related to its chronological age and proliferative state.
Deletion of the PDGFR-beta gene affects key fibroblast functions important for wound healing.	This study provides new perspectives of the unique aspects of platelet-derived growth factor beta-receptor (PDGFR-beta) signaling and biological responses through the establishment of a mutant mouse strain in which two loxP sequences were inserted into the introns of PDGFR-beta genome sequences. Isolation of skin fibroblasts from the mutant mice and Cre recombinase transfection in vitro induced PDGFR-beta gene deletion (PDGFR-betaDelta/Delta). The resultant depletion of the PDGFR-beta protein significantly attenuated platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-BB-induced cell migration, proliferation, and protection from H2O2-induced apoptosis of the cultured PDGFR-betaDelta/Delta dermal fibroblasts. PDGF-AA and fetal bovine serum were mitogenic and anti-apoptotic but were unable to induce the migration in PDGFR-beta Delta/Delta fibroblasts. Concerning the PDGF signaling, PDGF-BB-induced phosphorylation of Akt, ERK1/2, and JNK, but not p38, decreased in PDGFR-betaDelta/Delta fibroblasts, but PDGF-AA-induced signaling was not altered. Overexpression of the phospholipid phosphatases, SHIP2 and/or PTEN, inhibited PDGF-BB-induced phosphorylation of Akt and ERK1/2 in PDGFR-betaDelta/Delta fibroblasts but did not affect that of JNK and p38. These results indicate that disruption of distinct PDGFR-beta signaling pathways in PDGFR-betaDelta/Delta dermal fibroblasts impaired their proliferation and survival, but completely inhibits migratory response, and that PDGF-BB-induced phosphorylation of Akt and ERK1/2 possibly mediated by PDGFR-alpha is regulated, at least in part, by the lipid phosphatases SHIP2 and/or PTEN. Thus, the PDGFR-beta function on dermal fibroblasts appears to be critical in PDGF-BB action for skin wound healing and is clearly distinctive from that of PDGFR-alpha in the ligand-induced biological responses and the underlying properties of cellular signaling.
Pharmacokinetics of oritavancin in plasma and skin blister fluid following administration of a 200-milligram dose for 3 days or a single 800-milligram dose.	Oritavancin is a novel glycopeptide currently being developed for the treatment of complicated skin and skin structure infections (cSSSI), including those caused by multidrug resistant gram-positive pathogens. The disposition of oritavancin in skin structures was investigated using a cantharide-induced blister fluid model. Seventeen healthy male subjects received oritavancin, but only 16 subjects were evaluated after one subject discontinued study drug. Each subject (eight per dose group) received 200 mg of oritavancin once a day for 3 days (group A) or 800 mg as one single dose (group B). Group A plasma samples and exudates from blister fluid were collected on days 3, 4, 7, 9, and 12 and on days 3, 4, 7, and 9, respectively. Group B samples and exudates were collected on days 1, 2, 5, 7, and 10 and on days 1, 2, 5, and 7, respectively. Drug concentrations were determined using a liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry assay and, subsequently, pharmacokinetic analysis was performed. Differences between treatment groups in ratios for area under the concentration-time curve for blister fluid and plasma (AUC(blister fluid)/AUC(plasma) ratios) were evaluated using a t test (alpha = 0.05). Mean maximum concentration of drug in plasma or blister fluid was approximately 8-fold and 11-fold higher in plasma than in blister fluid following the 200- or 800-mg doses of oritavancin, respectively. Mean AUC(blister fluid)/AUC(plasma) ratios at 24 h were 0.190 (standard deviation [SD], 0.052) and 0.182 (SD, 0.062) for groups A and B, respectively (P = 0.791). To place these results in a clinical context, mean drug concentrations in blister fluid exceed the oritavancin MIC at which 90% of strains are inhibited of Staphylococcus aureus (2 microg/ml) by approximately 2- to 5.5-fold at 12 h and 1.5- to 3-fold at 24 h following administration of both dosing regimens. These results support the potential use of oritavancin for the treatment of cSSSI.
Preconditioning of the rat random-pattern skin flap: modulation by opioids.	Opioid receptors have been implicated in protecting several organ systems from ischaemic events. The authors have studied the effects of opioid receptors on random-pattern skin flap survival. Sixty-nine male Sprague-Dawley rats were used. Bipedicled dorsal skin flaps (2 x 8 cm) were elevated at the midline. Different doses of morphine (0.01, 0.1, 1 and 5 mg/flap) were administered locally in the cranial half of the flap and systemically through intraperitoneal injections (5 and 10 mg/kg). In another experiment, 0.4 mg/flap of naloxone was injected followed by 5 mg/flap injection of morphine to determine whether the effect of morphine is receptor mediated. The role of the opioid receptors in the ischaemic preconditioning (IPC) phenomenon was investigated by administration of naloxone (0.4 mg/flap) 1 h before clamping the cranial pedicle for 20 min followed by 40 min of reperfusion. Appropriate control groups were included. The cranial pedicle was cut 2 h after saline or drug administration in all groups and flap survival area was evaluated on the seventh postoperative day. Local administration of morphine in higher doses (1 and 5 mg/flap) significantly reduced the amount of flap necrosis when compared to that of the control cohort (P < 0.05). Naloxone abolished this protective effect of morphine. Furthermore naloxone significantly decreased the anti-ischaemic effect of the IPC. Systemic administrations of morphine had no significant effect on flap survival area in compare with the control group.
Small interfering RNA inhibition of SPARC attenuates the profibrotic effect of transforming growth factor beta1 in cultured normal human fibroblasts.	SPARC (secreted protein, acidic and rich in cysteine), or osteonectin, is a matricellular protein. Recently, it was observed to be overexpressed in fibroblasts obtained from the skin of patients with scleroderma, as well as in different tissues from patients with several other fibrotic disorders. Moreover, a genetic polymorphism in SPARC has been associated with susceptibility to scleroderma. Transforming growth factor beta1 (TGFbeta1) is a profibrotic cytokine that stimulates excessive collagen production in patients with scleroderma or other fibrotic diseases. The purpose of this study was to examine whether specific inhibition of SPARC can influence the expression of type I collagen and ameliorate the profibrotic activity of TGFbeta1 on normal human fibroblasts.
Epidermal nevus syndrome associated with adnexal tumors, spitz nevus, and hypophosphatemic vitamin D-resistant rickets.	The epidermal nevus syndrome is the association of epidermal nevi with abnormalities in other organ systems, most commonly the central nervous system, the skeletal system, and the eyes. We present a patient with epidermal nevus syndrome associated with hypophosphatemic vitamin D-resistant rickets and multiple adnexal and spindle cell tumors.
Female sexual behavior, but not sex skin swelling, reliably indicates the timing of the fertile phase in wild long-tailed macaques (Macaca fascicularis).	The extent to which catharrine primate males are able to discern the fertile phase during the female ovarian cycle under natural conditions is still debated. In a recent study, we showed that wild male long-tailed macaques are able to detect the fertile phase, but the cues males used to assess female reproductive status remained unclear. In the present study, we tested female sex skin swelling and specific female behaviors for their reliability in signaling the fertile phase, as determined by measurement of fecal estrogens (E) and progestogens (P) during nine ovulatory cycles in seven free-ranging females. We found that changes in sex skin swellings showed a significant positive correlation to the E/P ratio, but swelling size did not significantly differ between cycle phases. In contrast, the frequency of two of the tested female behaviors, namely initiation of sexual interactions and reaching back for the male during copulation, was not only correlated with female reproductive hormones, but was significantly elevated during the fertile phase compared to nonfertile phases of the cycle. We thus conclude that female sex skin swelling does not reliably indicate the timing of the fertile phase in long-tailed macaques, whereas certain female behaviors do. Since cycles differed considerably in the number of males with which females had sexual interactions as well as in the number of sexual interactions with dominant males, the signaling character of these specific female behaviors appears to be robust against inconsistencies in these social variables. Female behavior might therefore play an important role in the recognition of the fertile phase by male macaques under natural conditions.
Angiography in portal hypertension.	In this article, various angiographic techniques that may be useful in the assessment of portal hemodynamics are described with illustrative angiograms, providing examples of celiac arteriography; arterial venography; transsplenic, umbilical, operative, and transhepatic portography; hepatic venography; and other techniques. When they are combined with other imaging modalities, the information gained increases. Interventional and therapeutic angiography, such as angiographic occlusion of a large shunt causing encephalopathy or of an arterioportal shunt, widening of a narrowed shunt, and perforation of membranous obstruction of the inferior vena cava, is discussed.
Percutaneous renal biopsy of the solitary kidney: a contraindication?	We recently were presented with a patient from the nephrology service, with the request to perform open renal biopsy because of a solitary functioning kidney. We performed the open biopsy and the patient subsequently had a wound infection, leading us to question the recommendation in the literature stating that a solitary kidney is an absolute contraindication for percutaneous renal biopsy. In a review of the literature from 1951 to 1990, a total of 19,459 percutaneous renal biopsies has been reported with an overall complication rate of 2.1 to 10.8%, the majority (90%) of which did not require definitive treatment. Only 13 nephrectomies (0.06%) were required secondary to complications. The overall mortality rate was 0.08%. We reviewed 157 percutaneous renal biopsies done at this institution from 1985 to 1990 with a minor complication rate of only 5% and no major complications or loss of kidney function. The mortality rate was 0. Based on our study and a review of the literature, both showing an extremely small percentage of permanent loss of kidney function or mortality, we propose that a solitary kidney no longer be recommended as an absolute contraindication to percutaneous renal biopsy.
Isometric force production parameters during normal and experimental low back pain conditions.	The control of force and its between-trial variability are often taken as critical determinants of motor performance. Subjects performed isometric trunk flexion and extension forces without and with experiment pain to examine if pain yields changes in the control of trunk forces. The objective of this study is to determine if experimental low back pain modifies trunk isometric force production.
Three-dimensional potential gradient fields generated by intracardiac catheter and cutaneous patch electrodes.	Defibrillation may be improved if electrode configurations can be found that create a larger and more even voltage gradient field across the heart. This study determined the magnitude of the shock gradient fields generated by four nonthoracotomy electrode configurations for defibrillation.
Pressure-induced cellular senescence: a mechanism linking venous hypertension to venous ulcers.	Slow healing of ulcers in chronic venous insufficiency (CVI) has long been thought secondary to venous hypertension. Dermal fibroblasts isolated from venous ulcers have morphologies and protein production suggestive of premature aging. In this study, we hypothesized that neonatal fibroblasts (NNF) cultured under elevated pressure will demonstrate premature aging and that this effect will be augmented by an inflammatory mediator, transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta).
Dermal exposure to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons among road pavers.	Dermal exposure to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and the role of an industrial by-product, coal fly ash, on workers' PAH exposure were investigated during stone mastic asphalt (SMA) paving and remixing.
Association of transcutaneous bilirubin testing in hospital with decreased readmission rate for hyperbilirubinemia.	Newborns are being discharged from hospitals within 1-2 days of birth, before hyperbilirubinemia usually becomes clinically evident. We investigated the use of transcutaneous bilirubin (TcB) before discharge to determine whether it affects the use of laboratory bilirubin testing or decreases the number of neonates readmitted for hyperbilirubinemia within 7 days of initial discharge.
Expression of interleukin 1-inducible genes and production of interleukin 1 by aging human fibroblasts.	The interleukin 1 (IL-1)-inducible mRNAs for plasminogen activator inhibitor type 2, manganese superoxide dismutase, and urokinase are overexpressed in old (greater than 70% of life-span completed) but not in young (less than 40% of life-span completed) human foreskin fibroblasts. Furthermore, the activity of this superoxide dismutase is greater in old than in young fibroblasts. IL-1 beta mRNA is detected by Northern blot analysis in old fibroblasts and its expression is further enhanced by a treatment with IL-1 alpha. IL-1 alpha and IL-1 beta mRNAs are detected in old foreskin and lung fibroblasts by a sensitive reverse transcription-PCR assay. IL-1 mRNA is consistently expressed after fibroblasts have completed 85% of their in vitro life-span; an assay with specific antibodies shows that IL-1 alpha is present in these fibroblasts. Prolonged treatment with IL-1 receptor antagonist decreases the levels of IL-1 alpha and of IL-1 alpha and IL-1 beta mRNAs. This observation suggests that IL-1 receptor antagonist inhibits an autocrine loop responsible for IL-1 expression. IL-1 mRNA accumulates in young fibroblasts treated with cycloheximide, suggesting that it is transcribed but unstable in these cells; accumulation of IL-1 mRNA in old fibroblasts may be due at least in part to increased stability. IL-1 alpha stimulates DNA synthesis in young fibroblasts but has progressively less effect as the cells age in culture. These data indicate that IL-1 is "constitutively" produced by aging fibroblasts and that IL-1 induces the expression of specific proteins in these cells. The mechanism for this constitutive production of IL-1 is explored in this paper.
Anesthesia in percutaneous discectomy by the Onik's technique]	The type of anaesthesia used in percutaneous discectomy, a new technique for treating slipped disc, is described. The personal series consist of 960 patients. In 768, local anaesthesia by infiltration of the anatomical trajectory was used as a follow-up to nucleotome. In the rest, general anaesthesia was used. Conclusion are drawn from the comparison.
Exposure to blood during various procedures: results of two surveys before and after the implementation of universal precautions.	In an attempt to define better situations involving exposure to blood, we surveyed nurses (N = 565) in a 1000-bed university hospital to determine the following for the last working shift: the rate of cutaneous exposure to blood for different procedures, the rate of needlestick injury, and the prevalence of hand lesions. Among nurses who had performed at least one of the specified procedures, 42% had been exposed to blood with unprotected skin. Direct examination of 100 pairs of hands revealed that 57% of the nurses had either acute or chronic skin lesions. Universal precautions were introduced, and a similar survey (N = 541) was carried out 1 year later to assess compliance. Exposure of unprotected skin to blood had been reduced to 27%, although 46% of nurses had not used gloves for any of the procedures they had performed. The main reason given by nurses for not wearing gloves was that they did not consider the patient to be at risk for carrying a blood-borne infection. The rate of needlestick injuries was high and had remained stable at approximately 2.8 needlesticks/nurse per year, as determined by information from the last working shifts. We conclude that compliance of nursing personnel with universal precautions was insufficient, despite an informational campaign throughout the hospital. Repeated instruction on barrier precautions and the prevention of needlestick injury (including the correct use of disposable containers) is necessary to ensure optimal protection.
Proline conformation-dependent antimicrobial activity of a proline-rich histone h1 N-terminal Peptide fragment isolated from the skin mucus of Atlantic salmon.	A 30-residue N-terminally acetylated peptide derived from the N-terminal part of histone H1 was identified as the dominant antimicrobial peptide in skin mucus from Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar). The peptide (termed salmon antimicrobial peptide [SAMP H1]) was purified to homogeneity by a combination of reversed-phase and cation-exchange chromatographies. By Edman degradation of the deacetylated peptide and by sequencing of the PCR-amplified DNA that encodes the peptide, the complete amino acid sequence was determined to be AEVAPAPAAAAPAKAPKKKAAAKPKKAGPS. The theoretical molecular weight of N-terminally acetylated SAMP H1 was calculated to be 2,836, which is the same as that determined by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization mass spectrometry. The peptide was active against both gram-negative and -positive bacteria. The N-terminal acetyl group was not necessary for activity since deacetylation did not reduce the activity. A synthetic peptide whose sequence was identical to that of the isolated fragment was initially inactive but could be activated by binding it to a cation-exchange column. Treatment of the synthetic peptide when it was bound to the exchange column with peptidylproline cis-trans-isomerase increased the amount of active peptide, indicating that isomerization of the proline peptide bond(s) was necessary for activation of the synthetic peptide. Comparison of the active and inactive forms by circular dichroism and chromatographic analyses suggests that the active form, both the natural and the synthetic forms, is more structured, condensed, and rigid than the inactive form, which has a more nonstructured conformation. This work shows for the first time the importance of proline isomers in the activity of an antimicrobial peptide.
Two-dimensional mapping of underdosed areas using radiochromic film for patients undergoing total skin electron beam radiotherapy.	To demonstrate the viability of radiochromic film as an in vivo, two-dimensional dosimeter for the measurement of underdosed areas in patients undergoing total skin electron beam (TSEB) radiotherapy. The results were compared with thermoluminescent dosimeter measurements.
Percutaneous reduction of cyst volume of polycystic kidney disease: effects on renal function.	Percutaneous reduction of cyst volume was performed in 10 patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease and its effects on renal function were studied. Although creatinine clearance, urinary excretion of beta 2-microglobulin and N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase, and renal uptake of 99mtechnetium-dimercaptosuccinic acid did not change significantly, a transient increase in urinary protein and a decrease in inulin clearance were observed. Complications, such as hematuria, fever and decreases in hematocrit, were slight and transient in most patients. This procedure holds little promise for altering the course of polycystic kidney disease.
Binding of methyltrienolone to androgen receptors in human skin fibroblasts is enhanced by insulin.	Previous reports have suggested a relationship between hyperinsulinemia and increased androgen secretion leading to female virilization, but no report has been made of the effects of insulin on androgen receptors. The authors tested the in vitro effect of insulin on the binding of methyltrienolone (R1881) to androgen receptors of cultured genital skin fibroblasts preincubated with serum-free medium in the absence and presence of insulin (100 ng/mL, ie, 2600 microU/mL) for 18 hours at 37 degrees C. Insulin increased specific binding of R1881 by 35% (range, 13% to 75%). Scatchard analysis of androgen receptor binding demonstrated a similar increase in the number of binding sites, whereas binding affinity remained unchanged. The increase in androgen receptors was dose dependent (maximum effect at 25 ng insulin/mL) and time dependent (maximum effect occurring after 12 hours). DNA measurements indicated that insulin increased binding sites per cell rather than altering the cell number. Insulin increased total protein concentration to an extent similar to that observed for the increase in androgen receptor binding sites. Cycloheximide, but no actinomycin D, inhibited the effect of insulin on androgen receptor binding. The authors' data suggest that insulin induces an increase in the number of androgen receptors per cell as part of a general anabolic effect on cellular protein content.
Skin expansion. A new weapon in the therapeutic arsenal of plastic surgeons]	Skin expansion is a revolutionary technique for plastic surgery. Its principle is based on the observation of clinical facts, such as pregnancy, in which the skin can readily become distended. The technique consists in implanting a silicon prosthesis, connected to a filling valve through a tube, under the skin. The inflation of this prosthesis takes 3 months. At the end of this time, good-quality skin with the same features as normal skin (color, hairs, sensation) is available. There are many indications for this technique, including substance losses, removal of congenital tumors and of scars, breast reconstruction or scalp surgery.
Bone induction by demineralized bone particles: long-term observations of the implant-connective tissue interface.	Allogeneic demineralized bone (DB) powder was applied to subcutaneous pockets and cranial defects of rats and histological, histomorphometrical, and radiological evaluation was performed one to 52 weeks after implantation. In both type of implants cartilage formation was observed after 1 week between DB particles and in former vascular channels and cervices within the particles. Foci of bone formation were observed after 2 weeks in the center of the implant. Remineralization of DB particles only occurred in close contact with the new bone tissue by which they became incorporated, indicating that remineralization of DB is a continuation of a process which has started in live bone. At all times, the interface between implant and connective tissue of the host consisted of a layer of non-remineralized DB particles embedded in fibrous connective tissue. This rim was thinner at the dura-mater-side in the cranial implants, compared with the skin-side of the same implants as well as all sides of the subcutaneous implants. The rim became thinner with time but never disappeared completely. The outer contour of the mineralized implant sometimes ran right through a DB particle. A critical concentration of bone-inducing agent leaking from DB particles seems to be necessary for bone induction. We suggest that at the interface of the implant and loose connective tissue this concentration is never reached, which results in maintenance of the rim.
Mouse epidermal and skin extracts tested for cytostatic activity ("chalones"). Effects on organ and cell cultures.	Crude and fractionated epidermal extracts have been shown to decrease the growth and viability of epidermal cells (mouse ear organ cultures) as well as of murine mastocytoma cells, fibroblasts (L cells) and kidney cells (primary cultures). This cytotoxicity has been demonstrated to be due to the extracts and not to parasitic toxins. Furthermore, extracts prepared from dermis, mammary glands, and liver were likewise cytotoxic. These results do not confirm the presence of tissue-specific growth inhibitors (chalones) which have been claimed by others to be present in epidermal extracts.
Desensitization of the epidermal adenylate cyclase system: agonists and phorbol esters desensitize by independent mechanisms.	Exposure of pig epidermis to adenylate cyclase stimulators results in receptor-specific desensitization. We investigated the nature of the agonist-induced desensitization, which was compared with the phorbol ester-induced, receptor-nonspecific desensitization. Both phorbol ester-induced desensitization and the agonist-induced desensitization were accompanied by an increase in forskolin- and cholera toxin-induced cyclic AMP accumulations. The magnitude of the increase in the agonist-induced desensitization was parallel to the degree of the initial cyclic AMP accumulation; histamine and adenosine, which increase more cyclic AMP than epinephrine, resulted in a more marked increase in forskolin- and cholera toxin-induced cyclic AMP accumulations. Similarly, epidermis desensitized to multiple receptors revealed more marked forskolin- and cholera toxin-induced cyclic AMP accumulations than epidermis desensitized to a single receptor. In contrast to the phorbol ester-induced desensitization, agonist-induced desensitization was not affected by the protein kinase C inhibitors H-7 and staurosporin. Further, agonist-induced desensitization was still inducible in phorbol ester-desensitized epidermis and vice versa. In contrast to the agonist-induced desensitization, which is accompanied by the preceding adenylate cyclase stimulation, no evidence for the stimulation of the adenylate cyclase during phorbol ester treatment was obtained. Neither agonist-induced desensitization nor phorbol ester-induced desensitization affected the content of inhibitory guanine nucleotide binding protein of the epidermis, which was monitored by the pertussis toxin (IAP)-catalyzed ADP ribosylation reaction. Our results indicate that agonist-induced desensitization and the phorbol ester-induced desensitization are independent of each other. Although both processes are characterized by increased forskolin- and toxin-induced cyclic AMP accumulations, the former is accompanied by initial cyclic AMP accumulation; the latter is not.
Expression of cell cycle and apoptosis regulatory proteins in keratoacanthoma and squamous cell carcinoma.	Some authors view keratoacanthoma (KA) as a variant of squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), while others consider it a separate entity that must be distinguished from SCC. Involution displayed by KA is an important difference between these two entities. It has been suggested that apoptosis plays a role in the involution process of KA, although the exact trigger for it remains unclear. A hundred and fifty specimens were included in this study, 30 cases for each of the following groups: normal skin (NS), proliferative keratoacanthoma (pKA), regressing keratoacanthoma (rKA), well-differentiated squamous cell carcinoma (wdSCC), and poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma (pdSCC). They were immunohistochemically examined for the expression of p53, Ki-67, bak, and bcl-2. Significantly higher p53 and Ki-67 expressions were observed in all tumor lesions examined as compared with NS. There was higher bak expression in KAs compared to NS and a significant reduction of bak expression in pdSCC together with a significant reduction of bak expression in SCCs compared to pKA. Bcl-2 expression was similar in NS and SCCs, but was lower in rKA. We found a significant positive correlation between p53 and Ki-67, p53 and Bak in NS and examined skin tumors. Lower bcl-2 expression in conjunction with higher bak expression in rKA suggests a possible role of these apoptosis-regulating proteins in tumor regression. In contrast to this finding, a steady level of bcl-2 expression in pdSCC combined with lower bak expression levels and a high proliferation rate could contribute to progression and aggressiveness in these tumors. Bak and p53 expression is a sun-related and age-dependent process in NS and skin tumors.
The induction of plasma leakage in skin by histamine, bradykinin, activated complement, platelet-activating factor and serotonin.	Vascular leakage of [125I]-human serum albumin into the skin of sheep was measured in response to intradermal injection of histamine, bradykinin, zymosan-activated plasma (ZAP), platelet-activating factor (PAF) and serotonin. Potency of the mediators was PAF greater than ZAP greater than bradykinin approximately histamine greater than serotonin. Maximal leakage occurred in the first 10 min following injection of bradykinin, histamine and PAF, and for histamine and bradykinin had effectively ceased by 40 min. In contrast, ZAP and serotonin induced relatively constant plasma leakage over the first 40 min following their intradermal injection. Prostaglandins E1 and E2 enhanced plasma leakage induced by histamine and bradykinin thus confirming the applicability of the two-mediator hypothesis of vascular leakage to permeability responses in skin of sheep.
Modeling dermal exposure--an illustration for spray painting applications.	This article presents a conceptual, mathematical model of dermal exposure resulting from aerosol deposition on human forearm hair. The model is applicable to exposure scenarios where dermal deposition is governed by aerosol impaction, interception, and diffusion mechanisms. The model employs filtration theory, single fiber efficiency equations, and a modified potential airflow approximation. The results are extended, using previously published results, for application to dermal deposition on the forearm during spray painting. The average (N = 8) predicted dermal deposition of 1,6-hexamethylene diisocyanate as collected on a 10-cm(2) tape strip is 108.9 (+/- 70.3) pmol, whereas field measurements indicated an average of 168.6 (+/- 82.0) pmol per strip. The corresponding measured average dermal flux was 3.63 pg/cm(2)s (+/- 1.34); the prediction was 2.24 pg/cm(2)sec (+/- 1.25). The study calls attention to the importance of body hair both for modeling and measuring dermal exposures.
Contamination: a comparison of 2 personal protective systems.	The purpose of this study was to examine the difference in self-contamination rates and levels of contact and droplet protection associated with enhanced respiratory and contact precautions (E-RCP) and a personal protective system that included a full body suit, personal protective equipment and a powered air-purifying respirator (PAPR).
Prediction of meatiness and fatness in ducks by using a skin slice with subcutaneous fat and carcass weight without skin.	The experiment was performed on Pekin ducks (A-44 strain; 60 males and 60 females). The birds were reared to 7 wk of age and fed standard diets ad libitum. At the completion of the rearing period, the ducks were killed. The carcasses were chilled, and skin slices with s.c. fat were removed by a new method. The remaining part of the carcass was dissected into meat, intermuscular fat, and bones. The statistical analysis showed that the weight of a skin slice with s.c. fat, taken from the carcass surface excluding the forearms and wing tips [skin slice with fat (X(2))], and the weight of a carcass without this slice, forearms, and wing tips (X(1)) were very good indicators of the content of skin with fat (r = 0.99) and meat (r = 0.96), respectively, in a whole carcass. The above traits provided the basis for deriving regression equations to estimate the content of meat (Y) or skin with s.c. and intermuscular fat (U) in whole carcasses of ducks. The following 2 equations may be recommended for practical application: Y = 0.691 X(1) - 0.77 (S(y) = 21.6 g) U = 1.056 X(2) + 53.32 (S(u) = 10.6 g).
Immediate breast reconstruction (IBR) with direct, anatomic, extra-projection prosthesis: 102 cases.	There are different methods described until now for immediate breast reconstruction. Despite the use of autologous flaps considered by many authors, implants are considered as an option by others. A prospective study of 102 clinical cases was designed, including a 1-year follow-up in which glands were reconstructed by immediate breast reconstruction (IBR) with direct, extra projection, anatomic prostheses located in a submuscular pocket after a skin-sparing mastectomy. The prosthesis coverage was made by the muscle in its upper two thirds and by using the skin from the mastectomy in its lower third. The cosmetic results obtained were evaluated according to the volume, form, and symmetry achieved using a linear numeric analogical score. This evaluation had an averaged value of 2.79 +/- 0.8 in our scale from poor (0) to excellent result (4). The overall rate of complications was 15.7% of the cases, with seroma being the most frequent. In conclusion, this preliminary study demonstrates that immediate breast reconstruction with a direct, extra projection, anatomic prosthesis is a good alternative. Nevertheless, more long-term studies with a higher number of patients and using an SF-36 for patient satisfaction are needed to confirm these results.
Purification and kinetic characterization of equine infectious anemia virus reverse transcriptase.	The reverse transcriptase of Equine Infectious Anemia Virus (EIAV) was partially purified from virus particles and appeared to be a heterodimer with subunit molecular masses of 70 kdal and 59 kdal. The polymerase activity of this enzyme had an absolute requirement for a divalent cation, preferring Mg++ over Mn++. Addition of a monovalent cation to the reaction mixture enhanced, but was not required for enzyme activity. Kinetically, the reverse transcriptase of EIAV is similar to the reverse transcriptase of Human Imunodeficiency Virus Type 1 (HIV-1). Both enzymes have similar Km values for 2'-deoxynucleoside-5'-triphosphates on the synthetic template/primers tested, both exhibit substrate inhibition, and both are inhibited to similar extents by most nucleoside-triphosphate analogs. The results of this study suggest that the reverse transcriptase of EIAV may be a good model for studying structure/function relationships of retroviral reverse transcriptases.
A long term experimental study of canine visceral leishmaniasis.	Previous studies on Leishmania infantum and the canine immune response are derived mainly from short-term studies. To date, there have been no longitudinal studies that perform a serial analysis of the intensity of infection in conjunction with immunological parameters and clinical signs in Leishmania-infected dogs. For this purpose, six dogs were infected experimentally by the i.v. route and were monitored for 1 year. Clinical, immunological (humoral and cellular response) and parasitological (parasitaemia) parameters were evaluated monthly. Four dogs developed clinico-pathological signs compatible with leishmaniasis, whereas two dogs showed few abnormalities during the study. Evaluation of clinical, immunological and parasitological parameters showed that the intensity of Leishmania infection in blood samples, as indicated by the amount of Leishmania DNA, was correlated significantly with IgG, IgG1, IgG2, IgA, and IgM concentrations and with clinical signs. Parasitaemia and Leishmania-specific cell-mediated immunity were inversely correlated. Moreover, higher quantities of Leishmania DNA were detected in the liver, spleen, lymph node, skin and bone marrow of dogs exhibiting clinical signs than those exhibiting few such signs. These findings suggest that progressive disease in experimental canine leishmaniasis is associated with specific T-cell unresponsiveness and unprotective humoral responses which allow the dissemination and multiplication of L. infantum in different tissues.
High circulating retinol-binding protein 4 is associated with elevated liver fat but not with total, subcutaneous, visceral, or intramyocellular fat in humans.	Retinol-binding protein 4 (RBP4) is an adipokine that induced insulin resistance in mice, and high plasma RBP4 levels were associated with insulin-resistant states in humans. To determine which fat compartments are associated with elevated RBP4 levels in humans, we measured circulating RBP4 in 75 healthy subjects and used state-of-the-art measurements of body fat distribution.
Endocytosis of the dermatan sulfate proteoglycan decorin utilizes multiple pathways and is modulated by epidermal growth factor receptor signaling.	Human skin fibroblasts efficiently internalize the matrikine decorin by receptor-mediated endocytosis, however, very little is known about its intracellular trafficking routes up to lysosomal degradation. In an in vitro system measuring uptake and degradation of [(35)S]sulfate-labeled decorin, endocytosis was blocked by 46% when clathrin assembly/disassembly was inhibited using chlorpromazine. Pharmacological inhibition of EGF receptor signaling caused 34% reduction of decorin uptake, whereas inhibition of the IGF receptor had no effect. Using confocal immunofluorescence microscopy, we determined that only about 5-10% of internalized decorin colocalized with the EGFR. Thus, uptake depends on EGFR signaling rather than trafficking along the same pathway. Decorin passes through early endosomes towards trafficking to lysosomes, since more than 50% of decorin colocalized with EEA1. Moreover, inhibition of endosomal fusion by wortmannin caused a profound inhibition of decorin endocytosis. Overexpression of the clathrin-binding Hrs protein, which has previously been shown to inibit EGFR degradation blocked the degradation of decorin. Cholesterol depletion by filipin inhibited uptake of decorin by 34%, however, nearly no intracellular colocalization was found between decorin and caveolin-1. The combined use of filipin and chlorpromazine had an additive inhibitory effect on decorin endocytosis. Moreover, chlorpromazine diverted decorin from the chlorpromazine-sensitive pathway to an alternative uptake route. The CD44/hyaluronan pathway was excluded as an endocytic route for decorin. Our observations indicate that decorin is taken up by more than one endocytic pathway. Of note, lipid-raft-dependent EGFR signaling modulates decorin uptake, suggesting the presence of a potential feedback regulation mechanism for desensitization of signaling events mediated by decorin.
Effect of high-dose nicotine patch therapy on tobacco withdrawal symptoms among smokeless tobacco users.	No pharmacotherapies have been shown to increase long-term (> or = 6-month) abstinence rates among smokeless tobacco (ST) users. Available evidence suggests that underdosing may occur with standard-dose nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) in ST users. We investigated the effect of high-dose nicotine therapy on tobacco withdrawal symptoms among ST users in a randomized, controlled clinical pilot study. A total of 42 ST users using at least 3 cans or pouches per week were randomized to nicotine patch doses of 63, 42, or 21 mg/day or placebo for 8 weeks. Multiple daily assessments of tobacco withdrawal and nicotine toxicity were obtained with an electronic diary. During the first week of nicotine patch therapy, we observed a dose-response relationship such that higher nicotine patch doses were associated with less decreased arousal (chi2 = 6.87, p = .009), less negative affect (chi2 = 3.85, p = .05), and less restlessness (chi2 = 3.90, p = .048). During the second week, higher nicotine patch doses were associated with less decreased arousal (chi2 = 6.77, p = .009). Overall, the frequency of nicotine toxicity symptoms did not differ by dose group. Of specific symptoms, nausea was observed to be more frequent in the 63 mg/day dose group compared with placebo (p = .035). In conclusion, high-dose nicotine patch therapy resulted in a greater reduction of tobacco withdrawal symptoms among ST users using at least 3 cans per week. High-dose nicotine patch therapy is safe and well tolerated in this population of tobacco users.
Melanoma, long wavelength ultraviolet and sunscreens: controversies and potential resolutions.	Although sunlight is known to cause melanoma, there has been considerable controversy as to the importance of short (UVB) and long (UVA) ultraviolet (UV) wavelengths in causing melanoma, leading to uncertainty in how best to prevent this cancer. This uncertainty has been compounded by the difficulties in assaying the UVA protection abilities of sunscreens, as compared to widely accepted measures of UVB screening by the sun protection factor (SPF). This review discusses the controversies surrounding UVA causation of melanoma in both human and animal models and the use of sunscreens to prevent melanoma. In addition, it details the development of an electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) technique, initially used to determine the wavelength dependence (or action spectrum) of intramelanocyte radical generation to resolve these controversies in the Xiphophorus model. It is shown how this EPR technique allows a sunscreen protection factor to be determined, that is weighted to the melanocyte, and how this also allows study of the wavelength-dependent screening ability of sunscreens.
In vitro skin-tissue experiment for increased realism in open surgery simulations.	In-vitro uniaxial stress tests were conducted on samples of healthy human skin, obtained as a result of plastic surgical procedures. Pairs of test strips were cut from each sample to assess the effects of local orthotropy. Each strip was then subjected to constant strain-rate tensile testing, to observe its stress/strain behaviour. Typical maximal values for Young's modulus were found to be approximately 15.3MPa and 3.48Mpa for Langer-aligned and perpendicular test strips, respectively.
Repair of buccal mucosal defects by tissue engineered oral mucosa lamina propria]	To evaluate the effect of using tissue engineered oral mucosa lamina proprias to repair buccal mucosal full-thickness defects in rats.
Skin biopsies in mammals.	The skin biopsy is an invaluable diagnostic tool in veterinary dermatology. This column reviews the indications and techniques for performing skin biopsies.
Prediction of external events with our motor system: towards a new framework.	We cannot, in the proper sense, imitate or re-enact inanimate events, such as ocean waves rolling, or even non-human animate ones, such as dogs walking. However, we can anticipate the way they change and recent studies show that our motor system becomes involved while doing so. A novel framework is presented that accounts for these findings by generalizing a predictive account of the motor system from action to event perception. It is suggested that we predict events that we cannot reproduce ourselves by exploiting an audiomotor or visuomotor representation that never amounts to a real action because it lacks proprioceptive and other interoceptive information. This view inspires thinking beyond our customary conceptualization of a 'motor' system.
Skin dimpling: a complication of amniocentesis]	Second trimester amniocentesis is widely used for the prenatal diagnosis of congenital disorders. Direct fetal injury from needle puncture can cause cutaneous scarring and rarely leads to severe visceral complications. Before the advent of real-time ultrasonography, the incidence of cutaneous lesions after amniocentesis ranged from 0.1 % to 9 % in the different series. Few reports of cutaneous lesions after amniocentesis have been published since the advent of real-time ultrasonography, although the real incidence is unknown. Eight children with typical skin dimpling caused by needle puncture during second trimester amniocentesis are presented. Current amniocentesis has not completely eliminated the risk of needle puncture scarring of the fetus. Dermatologists, pediatricians and obstetricians should be aware of this complication, which may have medical and legal consequences.
A new method of skin erythrosis evaluation in digital images.	In the clinical field, reproducible and comparable assessments of skin color are needed for objective evaluation of lesions and efficacy of treatments. In order to provide objective, quantitative color information in skin lesions, devices such as reflectance spectrophotometer and reflectance colorimeter have been successfully used during the past decade, though they are too expensive and technically complex to be handled in routine clinical situations. Reflectance skin color measurements require direct contact of the probe with the skin, and the compression significantly influences readings. Color measurements obtained from digitized images have been proposed as a simple and cost-effective way to evaluate skin color and promote efficacy of treatments. The disadvantage is its direct and close relation to the ambient light: even if an accurate control of subject illumination is provided, readings vary between different laboratories. We propose a standard system for computerized color image analysis of skin erythrosis modification after Intense Pulsed Light (IPL) treatments, making it possible to compare readings taken by different observers in different environmental light conditions. The goal of our study is the introduction of fixed color internal controls in digital imaging in order to calculate a normalization factor of measurements, resulting not in a method of absolute quantification of erythema or erythrosis but in a method that provides the possibility of translation and comparison of the red values between systems in different environmental conditions. Between December 2004 and May 2005 we evaluated 30 patients at the Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery at the University "La Sapienza" of Rome. Three points of standard colored paper (Red Green Blue) were applied with a plastic pattern (standard intersection lines) and white point in non involved area for skin control. For every patient we took a series of pictures pre-treatment and after a standard cycle of 5/6 IPL. We evaluate the grade of reproducibility of our procedure with a careful analysis of pre-treatment digital images obtained in different environmental conditions. The statistic analysis of the standard deviation between the values of R obtained (using different light conditions), and the respective normalized valor (normalized to the referent image), did not show any significant statistical difference and allows us to achieve our goal: the reproducibility of the results.
Skin cooling for botulinum toxin A injection in patients with focal axillary hyperhidrosis: a prospective, randomized, controlled study.	Botulinum toxin A (BTX-A) injections are a commonly used and effective therapy for patients with focal axillary hyperhidrosis. However, injections are often painful. Therefore, we studied whether skin cooling decreases pain during injection.
Slow curing of aliphatic polyisocyanate paints in automotive refinishing: a potential source for skin exposure.	Two-component, polyurethane paints containing aliphatic isocyanates are widely used in autobody spray painting. Such isocyanates can cause asthma, and skin exposure may be an important route of sensitization and may contribute to the development of isocyanate asthma. Autobody workers are frequently in contact with recently painted, dried auto parts. It is not known how fast the newly painted car surfaces are fully cured, that is, for how long unbound, isocyanate species remain on painted surfaces after initial drying. To address this question, scrap sections of auto bodies were painted and dried by autobody shop painters following regular practice. Routinely used paints were sprayed 23 different times on the parts. Drying was accomplished by baking the part in a paint spray booth by heating it with a heat lamp or air drying in the shop. The 23 sprayed surfaces were sampled at regular time intervals after drying to determine the presence of free NCO groups using the semiquantitative SWYPE technique. Quantitative isocyanate analysis was also performed on two sprayed parts using NIOSH method 5525. Geometric mean curing time of 23 painted surfaces was 56.4 hr (range: 0.8 hrs to 32 days). Unbound isocyanate species of similar composition to the original bulk material remained present on the majority of sampled painted surfaces for up to 120 hours for typical paint formulations and for 1 month for others. The actual curing of polyurethane paints in autobody refinishing can be a slow process. Unbound isocyanates may remain on the surface of painted car parts for prolonged periods (days to weeks) after dried. Such surfaces are an under-recognized potential source of skin exposure to autobody workers.
A comparison of transcutaneous and total serum bilirubin in newborn Hispanic infants at 35 or more weeks of gestation.	Transcutaneous bilirubin (TcB) measurement in newborns has been studied extensively in the non-Hispanic population, but its usefulness in the Hispanic population remains unclear. We evaluate the accuracy of TcB measurements in assessing jaundice in Hispanic neonates by using total serum bilirubin (TSB) measurements as the reference standard and determine the TcB level that can be used to identify neonates at risk for clinically significant jaundice (above the 95th percentile).
Evaluation of dermal irritancy potential of Carboxymethyl-chitosan hydrogel and poly-(acrylic acid) chitin hydrogel.	The wound dressing synthesized from carboxymethylchitosan hydrogel (CM) and chitin-(polyacrylic acid) hydrogel (PAA) were examined for their dermal irritation potential response using the Draize test.
Enteric bacteria and ingested inert particles translocate to intraperitoneal prosthetic materials.	Sterile and endotoxin-free biomaterials commonly used in prosthetic devices (Dacron velour, woven Dacron, and Biomer polyurethane) and cotton (control material) were implanted intraperitoneally in mice with normal enteric flora. Intraperitoneal Biomer and woven Dacron became contaminated with 100 to 10,000 enteric bacteria, including Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, enterococci, and staphylococci species, within 3 days; intraperitoneal cotton and Dacron velour were contaminated within 24 hours. Mesenteric lymph nodes showed parallel incidences of translocation. The peritoneal cavity became contaminated only if the biomaterial itself became contaminated. No bacterial overgrowth, perforation, or histologic changes in the bowel were found. Subcutaneous biomaterials remained sterile. Ingested fluorescent beads appeared in enterocytes, in lamina propria within macrophages, and in intraperitoneal biomaterials. The data suggest that intraperitoneal sterile reactive stimuli can induce bacterial translocation to the dense prosthesis directly through the intact normal bowel wall. One of the mechanisms seems to involve phagocytosis of particles and bacteria within the bowel wall that are then chemotactically attracted to nearby sites of inflammation.
Effects of atrial natriuretic peptide AP II on proliferation processes in the epithelial tissue of white rats]	The effect of atrial natriuretic peptides synthetic analog AP II on corneal, skin, tongue and duodenum epithelium proliferation have been studied on male rats. The epithelium mitotic activity and DNA synthesis were evaluated in 4 and 24 h after intraperitoneal injection of 10 or 100 micrograms/kg AP II. 10 micrograms/kg AP II was found to have different influence on organs epithelium: it decreased the mitotic activity of skin and corneal epithelium, but activated the proliferation processes in tongue and duodenum epithelium. 100 micrograms/kg AP II stimulated cell mitogenesis in all organs studied. According to data obtained atrial natriuretic peptides are able to participate in cell division regulation in vivo.
Effect of receptor kinase inactivation on the rate of internalization and degradation of PDGF and the PDGF beta-receptor.	The complementary DNAs for wildtype and tyrosine kinase-inactivated (K634A) forms of the PDGF beta-receptor were expressed in porcine aortic endothelial cells. We examined the internalization and degradation of ligands and receptors after exposure of receptor expressing cells to PDGF-BB, which binds to the beta-receptor with high affinity, and PDGF-AB, which binds with lower affinity. Cells expressing wildtype beta-receptors were able to internalize and degrade the receptor, as well as the ligand, after exposure to PDGF-BB or -AB. Cells expressing the kinase-inactivated mutant receptor also internalized and degraded both receptor and ligand, but with lower efficiency compared with the wildtype receptor cells. The degradation of either form of receptor was inhibited by treatment of the cells with the lysosomotropic drug chloroquine. Exposure of wildtype and K634A receptor expressing cells to PDGF-AB resulted in a twofold slower rate of internalization of this ligand as compared with PDGF-BB, whereas the relative rate of degradation was similar for the two ligands. Our data indicate that tyrosine kinase activity promotes, but is not a prerequisite for, ligand-induced internalization and degradation of the ligand-receptor complex.
The 45-kilodalton protein of cytomegalovirus (Colburn) B-capsids is an amino-terminal extension form of the assembly protein.	Intranuclear B-capsids from cytomegalovirus (strain Colburn)-infected cells contain an abundant 37-kDa assembly protein, thought to be involved in capsid formation, and three minor protein constituents (i.e., 45, 39, and 38 kDa) that are immunologically and structurally related to the assembly protein. In the experiments reported here, antisera produced against synthetic peptides were used in conjunction with chemical protein cleavage to examine the structural relationship of these proteins in more detail. Results of these experiments verify that the carboxyl end of the 39-kDa assembly protein precursor is lost during maturation and suggest that the 38-kDa protein may be a processing intermediate. It is shown that the 45-kDa protein is coterminal with the mature assembly protein at its carboxyl end but differs by a predicted 115-amino-acid extension at its amino terminus. In addition, evidence is presented that the 45-kDa protein has a 48-kDa precursor and a 47-kDa putative processing intermediate which have the same carboxy-terminal sequences and undergo the same maturational events as those of the assembly protein. A working model considering the structural relationship of these proteins is presented.
An in vitro evaluation on the percutaneous sites of MAO-treated implants.	Microarc oxidation (MAO) was considered to be one of the most effective surface coating techniques to improve the osseointegration of the implants. However, the influences of such coating on the skin epithelium interface still gained less attention in present literatures. Clinical data showed that 15-20% of patients might have an infection following prosthetic rehabilitation because of the percutaneous problems. Epithelial downgrowth around transcutaneous implants associated with infections can occur due to the inappropriate materials and surface structures of the implants. Aimed at evaluating the biological properties of the percutaneous sites of the MAO-treated titanium implants, the behavior of human skin epithelial cell (HSEC) and the Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) on the MAO-treated and the untreated titanium (Un_Ti) surfaces were evaluated using in vitro models. Our results showed that MAO-treated titanium surfaces did not well support the growth, adhesion, and proliferation of HSEC. Additionally, they were much more susceptible to S. aureus when compared with untreated titanium (Un_Ti) surfaces. Analysis of our data, taken together, revealed that MAO-treated titanium surfaces may not be suited for the interfacing devices with human skin epithelium. Un_Ti surfaces showed a more satisfactory biocompatibility to the HSEC, as well as better in the prevention of S. aureus adhesion and multiplication. Therefore, we suggest that MAO treatment on the "percutaneous sites" should be carefully reconsidered in the next generation of MAO-treated implants.
The effect of similarities in skin texture and hand shape on perceived ownership of a fake limb.	In the rubber-hand illusion (RHI), people attribute an artificial object to their own body. In the present study, we investigate the extent to which RHI is affected by visual discrepancies between the artificial object and a human hand. We tested Armel and Ramachandran's (2003) hypothesis that people will experience a stronger RHI when the artificial object is a skin-like textured sheet instead of a tabletop. We did not find support for their hypothesis, but the strength of the RHI diminished when the texture of a hand-shaped object did not resemble the human skin (manipulated by putting a white glove over the cosmetic prosthesis). We provide an alternative explanation for this finding, based on a skill-based sensorimotor account of perceived body ownership. Such an explanation supports Armel and Ramachandran's more general claim that discrepancies in the nature of expected and felt touch diminish the RHI.
Stone attenuation and skin-to-stone distance on computed tomography predicts for stone fragmentation by shock wave lithotripsy.	To determine whether stone attenuation and the skin-to-stone distance (SSD) can predict for stone fragmentation by SWL independently. Identifying the factors predictive of shock wave lithotripsy (SWL) outcome would help streamline the care of patients with stones.
Pharyngocutaneous fistulae after total laryngectomy: a systematic review.	Nursing care to patients after total laryngectomy should be based on scientific knowledge. Evidence-based practice is a type of approach that stimulates the use of research results in clinical practice. This study presents a systematic review that aimed to identify the main treatments for pharyngocutaneous fistulae after total laryngectomy. Articles were selected from five databases: Pubmed, Cinahl, Biomednet Research Tools, Cochrane Library and Lilacs. The review sample consisted of 37 articles. After analyzing the articles included in the review, results showed that conservative treatment is commonly used for pharyngocutaneous fistulae, recommending intensive hygiene and wound treatment. The use of research results in clinical practice will grant greater consistency to nurses' actions in care for patients with pharyngocutaneous fistulae.
Dermal exposure to pesticides among women working in Polish greenhouses using cotton patches]	The work in greenhouses might involve indirect exposure to pesticides, resulting from the contact with previously pesticide-treated flowers and vegetables. The objective of the study was to assess the exposure to selected pesticides of workers tending and harvesting greenhouse cultivations after the restricted-entry intervals expired using cotton patches.
Age-dependent accumulation of N epsilon-(carboxymethyl)lysine and N epsilon-(carboxymethyl)hydroxylysine in human skin collagen.	N epsilon-(Carboxymethyl)lysine (CML) is formed on oxidative cleavage of carbohydrate adducts to lysine residues in glycated proteins in vitro [Ahmed et al. (1988) J. Biol. Chem. 263, 8816-8821; Dunn et al. (1990) Biochemistry 29, 10964-10970]. We have shown that, in human lens proteins in vivo, the concentration of fructose-lysine (FL), the Amadori adduct of glucose to lysine, is constant with age, while the concentration of the oxidation product, CML, increases significantly with age [Dunn et al. (1989) Biochemistry 28, 9464-9468]. In this work we extend our studies to the analysis of human skin collagen. The extent of glycation of insoluble skin collagen was greater than that of lens proteins (4-6 mmol of FL/mol of lysine in collagen versus 1-2 mmol of FL/mol of lysine in lens proteins), consistent with the lower concentration of glucose in lens, compared to plasma. In contrast to lens, there was a slight but significant age-dependent increase in glycation of skin collagen, 33% between ages 20 and 80. As in lens protein, CML, present at only trace levels in neonatal collagen, increased significantly with age, although the amount of CML in collagen at 80 years of age, approximately 1.5 mmol of CML/mol of lysine, was less than that found in lens protein, approximately 7 mmol of CML/mol of lysine. The concentration of N epsilon-(carboxymethyl)hydroxylysine (CMhL), the product of oxidation of glycated hydroxylysine, also increased with age in collagen, in parallel with the increase in CML, from trace levels at infancy to approximately 5 mmol of CMhL/mol of hydroxylysine at age 80.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In vivo evaluation of a microneedle-based miniature syringe for intradermal drug delivery.	A microfabrication process for miniature syringes is described. The MEMS syringes consist of a silicon plate with an array of hollow out-of-plane needles and a flexible poly-dimethylsiloxane (PDMS) reservoir attached to the back of the plate. The PDMS reservoir can be filled with a drug solution or microparticle suspension which is delivered into the skin simply by the pressure of a finger pushing on the miniature syringe. The efficiency of such a syringe for delivering a suspension of microparticles into skin tissue and a radiolabelled protein (albumin) solution into live mice is reported. Such microneedle devices could be used for the intradermal delivery of vaccination agents or for the systemic delivery of highly effective drugs.
Interaction of canine and swine lipoproteins with the low density lipoprotein receptor of fibroblasts as correlated with heparin/manganese precipitability.	Canine HDL1 and canine and swine HDLc were fractionated into several lipoprotein subpopulations by heparin/manganese precipitation. The ability of the various subfractions of HDL1 or HDLc to compete with 125I-labeled low density lipoproteins (LDL) for binding and degradation by human fibroblasts was compared. The HDL1 or HDLc which precipitated at the lowest concentration of heparin (a concentration which precipitates LDL) were the most effective in competing with 125I-LDL for binding, internalization, and degradation. A striking characteristic of these lipoproteins was the occurrence of a prominence of the arginine-rich apoprotein. The HDL1 or HDLc subfractions which were not precipitated by heparin/managanese lacked detectable arginine-rich apoprotein and did not compete significantly with the 125I-LDL for binding and degradation. Furthermore, the lipid to protein ratio differed in the precipitable and nonprecipitable lipoproteins, with those which were most efficiently bound and degraded containing more cholesterol. Specific lipoprotein interaction with heparin and with the cell surface receptors may occur by a common mechanism; namely, through a positively charged region on the lipoprotein surface which may reside with the B and arginine-rich apoproteins.
The cellular lesions of Farber's disease and their experimental reproduction in tissue culture.	In a case of Farber's disease, lysosomal inclusions were shown to contain lamellar, rectilinear, or curvilinear material. In tissue culture, when fibroblasts from the patient were overloaded with ceramides containing nonhydroxylated fatty acids a lysosomal accumulation of small curvilinear structures identical with those observed at autopsy were seen. These inclusions persisted for several weeks after the cells were replaced in a normal culture medium. Normal fibroblasts overloaded in the same experimental conditions showed identical, although less numerous, lysosomal inclusions, which disappeared rapidly in a ceramide-free culture medium. No inclusions were found after overloading normal or pathologic fibroblasts with ceramides containing hydroxylated fatty acids.
Redefinition of cutaneous lymphatic drainage with the use of lymphoscintigraphy for malignant melanoma.	Lymphoscintigraphy was performed on 82 patients with melanoma registered at the University Melanoma Clinic. From these data, precise lymphatic drainage basins could be drawn for the head, neck, shoulder, and trunk. These drawings differed significantly from the classic anatomic studies, providing a functional look at the cutaneous lymphatic drainage. This new method correlates much better with clinical experiences and demonstrates much larger areas of ambiguous drainage than previously reported. Data from the lymphoscintigrams also emphasize the individuality of cutaneous lymphatic flow. The implications of these data in planning elective node dissections for intermediate thickness melanomas are obvious, since it is estimated that up to 59% of the dissections for trunk and head and neck primary melanomas may be misdirected if based on classic anatomic studies. The data indicate that all patients with head, neck, and shoulder lesions should undergo lymphoscintigraphy to define possible drainage basins at risk for metastatic disease. Similarly, truncal lesions require scintigrams except when they are within four well-defined areas with an extremely low probability of ambiguous drainage. Lesions in these areas show very reliable and predictable drainage to a single nodal group.
Lymphatic drainage of skin to a sentinel lymph node in a feline model.	To determine the feasibility of selective lymphadenectomy, the authors developed a feline model to identify and determine the utility of mapping dyes for this purpose. Adult cats were injected intradermally with a variety of mapping substances to determine whether the anatomic site of injection had a predictable pattern of drainage to a particular lymph node. Isosulfan blue provided the optimal mapping material. Injection of isosulfan blue intradermally into the skin of the medial thigh consistently led to coloration of the central lymph node, whereas intradermal abdominal wall injections and intradermal lateral thigh injections resulted in coloration of the lateral lymph node. Intradermal injections into skin about the perineum resulted in coloration of the most medial lymph node only. The feline model proved to a useful model to examine the utility of mapping dyes and to demonstrate dermal lymphatics. The predictable pattern of drainage of the skin in this feline model supports the feasibility of selective lymphadenectomy.
Inhibition of growth factor signaling pathways by lovastatin.	Human fibroblasts treated with the antihypercholesterolaemic drug, lovastatin, displayed a diminished signaling response to epidermal growth factor (EGF), insulin and insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I). Supplementing the culture medium with mevalonic acid restored the signaling response. Not all growth factor signaling pathways were impaired, however, as platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF-BB) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) responses were refractory to lovastatin treatment. These results suggest the involvement of product(s) of mevalonate metabolism (e.g., prenylated proteins such as p21ras or G proteins) in the signal transduction of EGF, insulin and IGF-I. The inhibition of cell growth by lovastatin may be caused by the inability of the cell to enter the S phase of the cell cycle due to obstruction of the signaling of progression factors.
Monte Carlo calculation and silicon detector measurement of the hot particle dose.	In our study, we quantitatively compared the hot particle dose calculated by our microcomputer Monte Carlo electron transport code, Eltran3, with the values calculated by the VARSKIN code. For a weightless source, the VARSKIN code overestimated the skin dose by 14% to 37% because the VARSKIN code is based on the data table for point sources in an unbounded medium. Five 60Co hot particles were measured in the current and pulse mode operations of an ion-implanted silicon detector. The measurements were converted to skin dose rates and compared by use of Eltran3 and VARSKIN calculations. Measured values of the skin dose rates for four of the five hot particles agreed well with expected values. The skin dose rate per kBq of the four hot particles ranged from 0.70 to 0.85 mGy h-1 kBq-1. One of the five hot particles showed the presence of a pure beta-emitting radionuclide, which was not detected through gamma-ray measurements.
Investigation of death through body writing: a case study.	Various surfaces or substrates are often encountered in the examination of questioned writing; however, no writing is more interesting than that found on the human body nor more challenging when the writing in question is linked to a death investigation. The body of an 18-year-old male was brought to the State Crime Laboratory, Little Rock, Arkansas, with a gunshot wound to the head and several messages written on his arms and chest. This paper will discuss the examination of evidence used to determine the manner of death through a cooperative effort between the Medical Examiner's Section and the Questioned Document Section of the Crime Laboratory.
A study of psychopathology in phobia and obsessive-compulsive disorder: through the treatment of exposure and response prevention by transcutaneous electrical stimulation]	For the treatment of phobia and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), we developed a method of exposure (in vivo or in imagination) and response prevention by transcutaneous electrical stimulation (TES), in which weak electrical stimuli (3-4V, about 5Hz) are applied to the palm ("Rokyu" in acupuncture treatment) or vertex ("Hyakue") of a patient tolerating dysphoria induced in a state of imagination or in real life. TES was very effective in about 80% of 32 patients treated (Seishin Igaku, 1989). Through the treatment of severe cases with TES, several new findings regarding the psychopathology and etiologic mechanism of phobia or OCD were recently obtained. 1) In relatively simple cases treated with TES, anxiety and fear were extinguished within a few minutes by simultaneous close-up normal thoughts. Antagonism may thus possibly be present between a self integration mechanism and pathological mental structure, and TES may discontinuously dysfunctions this antagonism in the manner of a changeover switch. In severe cases, anxiety and fear were not immediately abolished by TES, but strong resistance and fear appeared with increase in TES. Thus, multilevel pathological mental structure are possibly present in severe cases. Moreover, one obsessive-compulsive patient suddenly restored totally free senses after 10 months of TES treatment and stated that he had been found for 10 years by a rule demanding obsessive checking. A certain more decisive principle may then have been present in his pathological mental structure. Based on the above, the pathological mental structure in these phobia and OCD may be concluded to have been dissociated from the self integration mechanism, intensified as the mechanism dealing specifically with anxiety, and finally became resistant to self integration due to the simultaneous close-up of a decisive principle. As for the mechanism of TES action, the following change provides some indication: that is, when TES was applied to the patient under exposure in a state of imagination, strong anxiety was initially induced, and then disappeared after several minutes. This may indicate that TES activates not only a pathological mental structure but also normal mental structure. Thus, while TES may be elevating the energy of anxiety, filling the pathological mental structure, by exposure and response prevention, it is efficiently inducing this anxiety towards the self integration mechanism. 2) On the basis of the above concept, an attempt was made to explain the etiologic mechanism of phobia or OCD. In many cases, the disease is evoked by a trivial provoking trigger after persistent conflict and psychic fatigue.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Evaluation of a new magnetic resonance imaging method for quantitating adipose tissue areas.	We have developed a new magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) protocol to quantitate intraabdominal and subcutaneous fat and have validated it by comparing measurements of fat areas by MRI with those obtained by computed tomography (CT) in 11 asymptomatic volunteers who all had a single CT and MRI image taken at the level of the umbilicus. The new MRI protocol was based on a water-fat separation method by which the slice selection routines excite water and fat protons in different positions along the slice select direction. This method performed more reliably than earlier methods based on phase differences between water and fat signals. Fat areas measured by MRI exceeded those measured by CT by 8-22 percent, and fat areas and ratios obtained by MRI correlated well with CT (r = 0.98 for areas and, for ratios, r = 0.81). The ratio of intraabdominal/subcutaneous fat measured by MRI in seven males was significantly greater than that in four females. We also compared the new method with a previously published inversion recovery (IR) method in seven additional volunteers. Agreement between the two methods was excellent, and the major differences were technical: the IR protocol produced images that may require custom image processing programs when obtained on some scanners. Comparability of the two methods provides further reassurance of the validity of both. MRI presents an attractive opportunity for directly measuring intraabdominal fat in order to correlate this with metabolic parameters and to visualize changes during weight loss.
A herpesvirus maturational proteinase, assemblin: identification of its gene, putative active site domain, and cleavage site.	A herpesvirus proteinase activity has been identified and partially characterized by using the cloned enzyme and substrate genes in transient transfection assays. Evidence is presented that the proteinase gene of cytomegalovirus strain Colburn encodes a 590-amino acid protein whose N-terminal 249 residues contain the proteolytic activity and two domains that are highly conserved in the homologous protein of other herpesviruses. Insertion of a short amino acid sequence between these domains abolished proteinase activity, suggesting that this region constitutes part or all of the enzyme active site. Plasma desorption mass spectrometry was used to identify the C terminus of the mature assembly protein as alanine, enabling the recognition of a consensus proteinase cleavage sequence of V/L-X-A decreases S/V, near the C-terminal end of all herpesvirus assembly protein homologs. Interestingly, the proteinase and its substrate, the assembly protein precursor, are encoded by opposite halves of the same open reading frame.
Wetting behavior of water and oil droplets in three-phase interfaces for hydrophobicity/philicity and oleophobicity/philicity.	Biomimetics, mimicking nature for engineering solutions, provides a model for the development of superhydrophobic/superoleophobic and self-cleaning surfaces. A number of biomimetic superhydrophobic surfaces have been developed by using a hydrophobic coating, surface roughness, and the ability to form air pockets between solid and water. Oleophobic surfaces that have the potential for self-cleaning and antifouling from biological and organic contaminants in both air and water need to be studied. The surface tension of oil and organic liquids is lower than that of water, so to create a superoleophobic surface, the surface energy of the solid surface in air should be lower than that of oil. The wetting behavior of water and oil droplets for hydrophobic/philic and oleophobic/philic surfaces in three-phase interfaces was studied. In order to make the surface oleophobic at a solid-air-oil interface, a material with a surface energy lower than that of oil was used. In underwater applications, the oleophobicity/philicity of an oil droplet in water was studied on the surfaces with different surface energies of various interfaces and contact angles of water and oil droplets in air. A model for predicting the contact angles of water and oil droplets was proposed. To validate the model, the wetting behavior of flat and micropatterned surfaces with varying pitch values were studied. Furthermore, the wetting behavior of the nano- and hierarchical structures found in Lotus plant surfaces and the shark skin replica as an example of aquatic animal were also studied. On the basis of the experimental data and the model, the trends were explained.
Lack of effect on blood alcohol level of swabbing venepuncture sites with 70% isopropyl alcohol.	It is standard practice to clean the skin using a non-alcohol-containing swab before forensic blood alcohol sampling, because of the belief that the use of an alcohol-containing swab will contaminate the sample. The present study aimed to determine whether cleaning the skin with 70% isopropyl alcohol swabs, before venepuncture, alters measured blood alcohol level (BAL).
The prevalence of pathologic skin picking in US adults.	Despite increasing recognition of the potentially severe medical and psychosocial costs of pathologic skin picking (PSP), no large-sample, randomized investigation of its prevalence in a national population has been conducted.
Comparison of transabdominal ultrasound and electromagnetic transponders for prostate localization.	The aim of this study is to compare two methodologies of prostate localization in a large cohort of patients. Daily prostate localization using B-mode ultrasound has been performed at the Nebraska Medical Center since 2000. More recently, a technology using electromagnetic transponders implanted within the prostate was introduced into our clinic (Calypso(R)). With each technology, patients were localized initially using skin marks. Localization error distributions were determined from offsets between the initial setup positions and those determined by ultrasound or Calypso. Ultrasound localization data was summarized from 16619 imaging sessions spanning 7 years; Calypso localization data consists of 1524 fractions in 41 prostate patients treated in the course of a clinical trial at five institutions and 640 localizations from the first 16 patients treated with our clinical system. Ultrasound and Calypso patients treated between March and September 2007 at the Nebraska Medical Center were analyzed and compared, allowing a single institutional comparison of the two technologies. In this group of patients, the isocenter determined by ultrasound-based localization is on average 5.3 mm posterior to that determined by Calypso, while the systematic and random errors and PTV margins calculated from the ultrasound localizations were 3 - 4 times smaller than those calculated from the Calypso localizations. Our study finds that there are systematic differences between Calypso and ultrasound for prostate localization.
Compatibility of insulin Lispro, Aspart, and Glulisine with the Solo MicroPump, a novel miniature insulin pump.	This study compared the stability of commercially available, rapid-acting insulin in the novel tubeless, skin-adhering Solo insulin pump over 6 days at extreme environmental conditions.
Cutting oil dermatitis on guinea pig skin (I). Cutting oil dermatitis and barrier cream.	We assessed the effect of repeated application of cutting oil on 9 guinea pigs' skin by visual scoring and skin water vapour loss measurement. The visual scores (severity score) were significantly higher on skin treated with cutting oil (positive control) compared to untreated skin (negative control). The corresponding mean SVL values were also significantly higher. We also assessed the effect of 2 barrier creams on the 9 guinea pigs' skin treated with cutting oil. The visual scores on skin treated with either barrier cream were significantly higher than positive control skin. The corresponding mean SVL values on skin treated with either barrier cream were also higher (not statistically significant). It appeared that the 2 barrier creams did not confer protection against the irritant effect of the cutting oil. On the contrary, barrier creams appeared to exacerbate the irritant effect of cutting oil.
A histomorphometric analysis of the effects of fluoride on experimental ectopic bone formation in the rat.	Ectopic bone formation was induced in 14 rats receiving 100 ppm fluoride in drinking water and in 14 control animals. Sections from ossicles removed after 14 and 20 days were sampled for stereological analysis. Bone volume density and bone volume were reduced in experimental animals on day 14 (p less than 0.05). This difference was no longer present after 20 days. On day 20, surface density and areas of formative surfaces were increased in the fluoride group (p less than 0.05). Osteoid seam thickness was higher in the fluoride group on both days (p less than 0.01). In conclusion, fluoride induced quantitative alterations in ectopic bone formation, and the presented model may prove a useful addendum to previous methods for investigation of fluoride effects on mineralization processes in vivo.
Psyche and skin.	In this short communication, I intend to present a specific psycho-dynamic theory which explains some of the psychodynamics associated with eczemas and perhaps to some other skin lesions. It provides a framework for understanding and treating such lesions with pure psychodynamic methods, i.e., by psychoanalysis or analytic psychotherapy. These ideas were first presented in 1968 by Ester Bick, a Polish psychoanalyst living in London. Her theory of the role of the primal object for the baby, as the provider of necessary psychological containment, a kind of psychological skin, has proven to be of great value for psychoanalysts and psychotherapists treating adults and children with skin problems. When this "skin function" of the caretaking object fails, real skin lesions may follow. When the person finds in treatment an object who has this containing function, his/her skin heals.
In-vivo behaviour of hypodermically implanted microfabricated glucose sensors.	The in-vivo behaviour of microfabricated GOD (glucose oxidase)/H2O2 glucose sensor implanted subcutaneously in normal anaesthetized rats has been studied. The sensor consists of a planar, three-electrode microcell, an enzyme membrane (glucose oxidase and bovine serum albumin cross-linked with glutaraldehyde) and an outer diffusion limiting polyurethane membrane. The sensor behaviour during hyperglycaemic (13.8 mM and 11.2 mM), euglycaemic (7.8 mM) and hypoglycaemic (3.5 mM) plateau levels was determined. The values of the in-vivo sensitivity (0.64 +/- 0.05 nA/mM) and background current (1.25 +/- 0.4 nA) were determined using a two-point calibration method and then used to calculate apparent subcutaneous glucose concentrations. The results show the presence of a good correlation between all the plasma glucose levels (G) and the apparent subcutaneous tissue concentrations (G'), with G' = 0.997.G - 0.066, r = 0.9782.
Evaluation of errors influencing accuracy in image-guided neurosurgery.	Neurosurgeons sometimes find it difficult to locate tumors precisely during microsurgery, particularly tumors located in the brain parenchyma because of the absence of boundaries in this region. Image-guided neurosurgical techniques conducted with the help of neuronavigation systems have been developed and have gained importance recently. Accuracy is vital during image-guided neurosurgery. We used a phantom to evaluate the errors introduced during navigation. The three errors evaluated were skin-shift, marker-gap, and table-rotation errors. The skin-shift error occurs if the fiducial markers positioned on the scalp move when the head is fixed to a head holder with head pins. The marker-gap error occurs when the marker ball is positioned incorrectly in the marker socket. The table-rotation error occurs when the operating table is rotated for obtaining an intraoperative MR image and then returned to its original position. Our results indicated that skin shift decreased the navigation accuracy by an error of more than 4 mm, and the gap between the marker ball and the socket resulted in a decrease in navigation accuracy by an error of more than 5 mm. The table-rotation error was found to be negligible. The errors can be avoided by ensuring that the fiducial markers are positioned appropriately on the scalp and the marker ball is fitted well in the marker socket. A phantom is useful for evaluating accuracy, particularly for evaluating errors intrinsic to different operating rooms. Periodic quality assurance by use of a phantom in each operating room might aid in maintaining the accuracy of neuronavigation.
Are subspecies of Anolis lizards that differ in dewlap color and pattern also genetically distinct? A mitochondrial analysis.	Subspecies of Anolis lizards are often defined on the basis of geographic variation in the color and pattern of the dewlap, an extensible throat fan considered central to species recognition and sexual selection. Among the most impressive examples of this phenomenon are two species of trunk anoles found across Hispaniola and the Bahamas: Anolis distichus is divided into 16 subspecies with dewlap colors ranging from deep wine red to pale yellow while Anolis brevirostris is divided into three subspecies with dewlaps ranging from pale yellow to orange. Limited sampling of allozyme data indicates some genetic divergence among subspecies and suggests that they may deserve recognition at the species-level. Our goal here is to use more comprehensive geographic sampling of mtDNA haplotypes to test whether the five subspecies of A. distichus and three subspecies of A. brevirostris that occur in the Dominican Republic correspond with genetically distinct populations that may warrant recognition under the general lineage concept. We obtain an aligned dataset of 1462bp comprised of the genes encoding ND2 and adjacent tRNAs from 76 individuals of A. distichus from 28 localities and 12 individuals of A. brevirostris from five localities. We find that haplotypes sampled from each Dominican subspecies of A. distichus form well-supported and deeply divergent clades (>10% uncorrected sequence divergence). Strong concordance between mtDNA haplotype structure and previously diagnosed phenotypic variation in traits central to interspecific communication (i.e., the dewlap) leads us to hypothesize that each of the presently recognized Dominican subspecies of A. distichus and A. brevirostris deserves elevation to full species status under the general lineage concept.
Novel dry polymer foam electrodes for long-term EEG measurement.	A novel dry foam-based electrode for long-term EEG measurement was proposed in this study. In general, the conventional wet electrodes are most frequently used for EEG measurement. However, they require skin preparation and conduction gels to reduce the skin-electrode contact impedance. The aforementioned procedures when wet electrodes were used usually make trouble to users easily. In order to overcome the aforesaid issues, a novel dry foam electrode, fabricated by electrically conductive polymer foam covered by a conductive fabric, was proposed. By using conductive fabric, which provides partly polarizable electric characteristic, our dry foam electrode exhibits both polarization and conductivity, and can be used to measure biopotentials without skin preparation and conduction gel. In addition, the foam substrate of our dry electrode allows a high geometric conformity between the electrode and irregular scalp surface to maintain low skin-electrode interface impedance, even under motion. The experimental results presented that the dry foam electrode performs better for long-term EEG measurement, and is practicable for daily life applications.
Combined treatment for skin rejuvenation and soft-tissue augmentation of the aging face.	Multiple types of anti-aging treatments are required to address the various etiologies of facial aging. Soft-tissue augmentation provides a minimally invasive option for patients seeking to look younger. However, due to changes in facial skin, musculature, fat and bone, anti-aging treatment requires a multifaceted approach. Injectable fillers may be combined with neurotoxins to resolve superficial wrinkles and restore facial volume. These modalities may be used with laser resurfacing or chemical peels to address epidermal and superficial dermal problems. Combining injectable soft-tissue augmentation treatments allows clinicians and patients to take advantage of the benefits of each modality and to address the multiple effects of facial aging. This review is based on clinical experience and a MEDLINE search for articles about volume replacement and soft-tissue augmentation. It provides a rationale that supports the use of combination techniques/products for soft-tissue augmentation.
The impact of natural sunlight exposure on the UVB-sun protection factor (UVB-SPF) and UVA protection factor (UVA-PF) of a UVA/UVB SPF 50 sunscreen.	To compare the functional stability of Cetaphil UVA/UVB Defense SPF 50 as measured by its ultraviolet B sun protection factor (UVB-SPF) and ultraviolet A protection factor (UVA-PF) values following exposure to natural sunlight versus the UVB-SPF and UVA-PF values of unexposed product.
Enhancement of transdermal apomorphine delivery with a diester prodrug strategy.	Diester prodrugs of apomorphine, diacetyl apomorphine (DAA), and diisobutyryl apomorphine (DIA) were synthesized, and their partition coefficients, capacity factor (log K'), enzymatic hydrolysis, and in vitro permeation across nude mouse skin were characterized. The lipophilicity of the diesters was between that of apomorphine HCl and the apomorphine base. The prodrugs were chemically stable, but enzymatically unstable in esterase medium, skin homogenate, and human plasma. DAA showed a faster hydrolysis in plasma compared to DIA. Total fluxes (nmol/cm(2)/h) of the parent drug and prodrug were significantly greater after topical treatment with the diesters in aqueous solutions (water, 30% polyethylene glycol in water, and 30% glycerol in water) compared to treatment with HCl and base forms of apomorphine. DIA flux from deionized water was 51 nmol/cm(2)/h, which exceeded the flux of apomorphine HCl by 10-fold. The extent of parent drug regeneration after topical application ranged 51-88% and 34-61% for DAA and DIA, respectively, depending on the vehicles selected. Permeation measurements using intact and stratum corneum-stripped skins demonstrated that the viable epidermis/dermis was an important barrier to prodrug permeation. Nano-sized lipid emulsions were also used as carriers for apomorphine and its prodrugs. Diester prodrugs exhibited superior skin permeation compared to the parent drug when formulated into the emulsions. DAA and DIA fluxes from lipid emulsions were 11- and 3-fold higher than that of apomorphine HCl. The results in the present work suggest the feasibility of diester prodrugs for the transdermal delivery of apomorphine.
The SCoRE residual: a quality index to assess the accuracy of joint estimations.	The determination of an accurate centre of rotation (CoR) from skin markers is essential for the assessment of abnormal gait patterns in clinical gait analysis. Despite the many functional approaches to estimate CoRs, no non-invasive analytical determination of the error in the reconstructed joint location is currently available. The purpose of this study was therefore to verify the residual of the symmetrical centre of rotation estimation (SCoRE) as a reliable indirect measure of the error of the computed joint centre. To evaluate the SCoRE residual, numerical simulations were performed to evaluate CoR estimations at different ranges of joint motion. A statistical model was developed and used to determine the theoretical relationships among the SCoRE residual, the magnitude of the skin marker artefact, the corrections to the marker positions, and the error of the CoR estimations to the known centre of rotation. We found that the equation err=0.5r(s) provides a reliable relationship among the CoR error, err, and the scaled SCoRE residual, r(s), providing that any skin marker artefact is first minimised using the optimal common shape technique (OCST). Measurements on six healthy volunteers showed a reduction of SCoRE residual from 11 to below 6mm and therefore demonstrated consistency of the theoretical considerations and numerical simulations with the in vivo data. This study also demonstrates the significant benefit of the OCST for reducing skin marker artefact and thus for predicting the accuracy of determining joint centre positions in functional gait analysis. For the first time, this understanding of the SCoRE residual allows a measure of error in the non-invasive assessment of joint centres. This measure now enables a rapid assessment of the accuracy of the CoR as well as an estimation of the reproducibility and repeatability of skeletal motion patterns.
A durable repair of a broken silastic catheter using a topical skin adhesive.	A break in the external portion of a tunneled silastic catheter due to wear is a frequent event. We describe an easy yet durable fix for catheters with a break on the external portion of the catheter. The repair is achieved by cutting the catheter proximal to the breakage point and attaching with a topical skin adhesive, a readily available blunt metal or plastic cannula.
In vivo reflectance spectroscopy study of different clearing agents on human skin optical clearing]	The changes of skin tissue reflectance spectroscopy before and after being treated with the optical clearing agents of three different types of optical clearing within the wavelength rang of 400-1 000 nm, and the degree of changes in reflectance spectroscopy of each group skin during 0-60 min at 580 nm in vivo were real-time dynamically researched. The reflectance spectroscopy of skin tissue before and after being dealt by the optical clearing agents of glycerol, glucose and propylene glycol was measured using a USB-4000 fiber spectrophotometer at 0, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50 and 60 min. The results showed that the reflectance spectral intensity was distinctly decreased, but the reflectance was significantly increased gradually with the time prolonged. However, different optical clearing agents have different clearing progress. The relative decrease of reflectance of palm skin tissue before and after being dealt by the optical agents of 40% glycerol, 40% glucose and 40% propylene glycol during 10, 20, 30, 40, 50 and 60 min at the wavelength 580 nm is 5%, 7%, 9%, 10%, 11% and 12%, 9%, 13%, 16%, 19%, 21% and 22%, and 14%, 22%, 29%, 32%, 34% and 35%, respectively. The significant improvement in light transmittance and enhancement of light penetration through tissue was demonstrated for all solutions. The effect and processes of optical clearing of skin tissue is not only closely related to the choosing of the clearing agent type, but also related to the treatment time with the skin tissue. The clearing progress of different type optical clearing agent showed the order of 40% propylene glycol, 40% glucose and 40% glycerol.
Initial assessment of jaundice in otherwise healthy infants--a comparison of methods in two postnatal units.	Transcutaneous bilirubin (TcB) has the potential to reduce total serum bilirubin (TS) sampling. The principal aim of this study was to determine and compare the number of initial TSB samples (TSBs) in two postnatal units (hospitals A & B) whereby hospital A used TcB and hospital B did not. A secondary aim was to determine the clinical factors that led to initial TSBs exceeding exchange transfusion level in both hospitals. Results demonstrated both hospitals had similar populations and patient numbers following selection criteria. 1645 neonates (10.4%) had one or more TSBs performed in hospital A, versus 2373 neonates (15.1%) in hospital B (p < 0.01). Fourteen neonates in hospital A and 3 neonates in hospital B had initial TSBs above exchange transfusion level. For neonates with TSBs above exchange, preventable factors related to earlier testing and follow up. In routine clinical practice, TcB is associated with a significantly reduced number of TSB measurements. TSB levels above exchange transfusion are linked to preventable factors, in otherwise healthy neonates.
Skin disinfection by plasma-tissue interaction: comparison of the effectivity of tissue-tolerable plasma and a standard antiseptic.	Wound healing disorders frequently occur due to biofilm formation on wound surfaces requiring conscientious wound hygiene. Often, the application of conventional liquid antiseptics is not sufficient and sustainable as (1) the borders and the surrounding of chronic wounds frequently consist of sclerotic skin, impeding an effectual penetration of these products, and (2) the hair follicles representing the reservoir for bacterial recolonization of skin surfaces are not affected. Recently, it has been reported that tissue-tolerable plasma (TTP), which is used at a temperature range between 35 and 45C, likewise has disinfecting properties. In the present study, the effectivity of TTP and a standard liquid antiseptic was compared in vitro on porcine skin. The results revealed that TTP was able to reduce the bacterial load by 94%, although the application of the liquid antiseptic remained superior as it reduced the bacteria by almost 99%. For in vivo application, however, TTP offers several advantages. On the one hand, TTP enables the treatment of sclerotic skin as well, and on the other hand, a sustainable disinfection can be realized as, obviously, also the follicular reservoir is affected by TTP.
Proteome and cytokine serum profiling to diagnose a mycosis fungoides.	The aim of this study was to estimate a possibility of mycosis fungoides (MF) diagnostics based on protein profiling in blood serum.
Bystander exposure to ultra-low-volume insecticide applications used for adult mosquito management.	A popular and effective management option for adult mosquitoes is the use of insecticides applied by ultra-low-volume (ULV) equipment. However, there is a paucity of data on human dermal exposure to insecticides applied by this method. The objective of the current study was to estimate dermal exposures to the insecticide active ingredient permethrin using water- (Aqua-Reslin) and oil-based (Permanone 30-30) formulations with passive dosimetry. No significant differences in deposition of permethrin were observed between years, distance from the spray source, front or back of the body, or the placement of the patches on the body. However, exposure to Aqua-Reslin was significantly greater than Permanone 30-30 and average concentrations deposited on the body were 4.2 and 2.1 ng/cm2, respectively. The greater deposition of Aqua-Reslin is most likely due to the higher density of the water-based formulation which causes it to settle out faster than the lighter oil-based formulation of Permanone 30-30. The estimated average absorbed dermal exposure for permethrin from Aqua-Reslin and Permanone 30-30 was 0.00009 and 0.00005 mg/kg body weight, respectively. We also found that ground deposition of ULV insecticides can be used as a surrogate for estimating dermal exposure. The estimated exposures support the findings of previous risk assessments that exposure to ULV applications used for mosquito management are below regulatory levels of concern.
Mercury levels in locally manufactured Mexican skin-lightening creams.	Mercury is considered one of the most toxic elements for plants and animals. Nevertheless, in the Middle East, Asia and Latin America, whitening creams containing mercury are being manufactured and purchased, despite their obvious health risks. Due to the mass distribution of these products, this can be considered a global public health issue. In Mexico, these products are widely available in pharmacies, beauty aid and health stores. They are used for their skin lightening effects. The aim of this work was to analyze the mercury content in some cosmetic whitening creams using the cold vapor technique coupled with atomic absorption spectrometry (CV-AAS). A total of 16 skin-lightening creams from the local market were investigated. No warning information was noted on the packaging. In 10 of the samples, no mercury was detected. The mercury content in six of the samples varied between 878 and 36,000 ppm, despite the fact that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has determined that the limit for mercury in creams should be less than 1 ppm. Skin creams containing mercury are still available and commonly used in Mexico and many developing countries, and their contents are poorly controlled.
Problems of using a thermocouple for measurements of skin temperature rise during the exposure to millimeter waves]	The possibility of using thermocouples for the artifact-free measurements of skin temperature during millimeter wave exposure was studied. The distributions of the specific absorption rate (SAR) in the human skin were calculated for different orientations of the thermocouple relative to the E-field of exposure. It was shown that, at the parallel orientation of a thermocouple relative to the E-field, SAR significantly increased at the tip of the thermocouple. This can result in an overheating of the thermocouple. At the perpendicular orientation of a thermocouple, the distortions of the SAR were insignificant. The data obtained confirm that the skin temperature can be measured with a thermocouple during exposure under the condition that the thermocouple is located perpendicular to the E-vector of the electromagnetic field. For the accurate determination of SAR from the rate of the initial temperature rise, it is necessary to fit the temperature kinetics measured with the thermocouple to the solution of the bio-heat transfer equation.
New dermal substitutes.	The quality of skin wound healing can be improved by the application of scaffolds as skin replacement materials. Although the clinical requirements for the function of such materials are defined, the translation of these requirements into physical and mechanobiological properties of scaffolds is difficult. Natural as well as constructed biological materials and synthetic substitutes are discussed. Furthermore, new techniques such as electrospinning and solid freeform fabrication as well as new types of materials such as self-assembling peptides are reviewed with regard to their potential role in the production of skin substitute materials.
Preoperative skin marking and perioperative checks require careful thought: a report of a near miss.	A patient marked preoperatively for ulnar nerve decompression under general anaesthesia was found to have symmetrical operative site markings. The correct skin mark was transferred to the other side by her sleeping position the night before surgery. Skin marking is an adjunct to safe surgery but is not failsafe.
Regenerative potential of glycosaminoglycans for skin and bone.	To meet the growing need for tissue replacement materials for our aging population, the development of new adaptive biomaterials is essential. The tissues with the highest demand for implant materials are skin and bone. These tissues share various similarities, including signaling pathways and extracellular matrix composition. Glycosaminoglycans such as hyaluronan and chondroitin sulfate are the major organic extracellular matrix components. They modulate the attraction of skin and bone precursor cells and their subsequent differentiation and gene expression and regulate the action of proteins essential to bone and skin regeneration. The precise action of glycosaminoglycans varies according to their structural composition mainly in respect to the degree of sulfation and polymer length. Changes in the glycosaminoglycan composition are frequently seen in physiological and pathological remodeling processes, such as bone formation or scaring. Here, we review the current state of knowledge of how the most common glycosaminoglycan, chondroitin sulfate and hyaluronan, interact with bone and skin cells, and summarize their potential in tissue engineering for skeletal and skin diseases.
Dry-contact and noncontact biopotential electrodes: methodological review.	Recent demand and interest in wireless, mobile-based healthcare has driven significant interest towards developing alternative biopotential electrodes for patient physiological monitoring. The conventional wet adhesive Ag/AgCl electrodes used almost universally in clinical applications today provide an excellent signal but are cumbersome and irritating for mobile use. While electrodes that operate without gels, adhesives and even skin contact have been known for many decades, they have yet to achieve any acceptance for medical use. In addition, detailed knowledge and comparisons between different electrodes are not well known in the literature. In this paper, we explore the use of dry/noncontact electrodes for clinical use by first explaining the electrical models for dry, insulated and noncontact electrodes and show the performance limits, along with measured data. The theory and data show that the common practice of minimizing electrode resistance may not always be necessary and actually lead to increased noise depending on coupling capacitance. Theoretical analysis is followed by an extensive review of the latest dry electrode developments in the literature. The paper concludes with highlighting some of the novel systems that dry electrode technology has enabled for cardiac and neural monitoring followed by a discussion of the current challenges and a roadmap going forward.
Signals of personality and health: the contributions of facial shape, skin texture, and viewing angle.	To what extent does information in a person's face predict their likely behavior? There is increasing evidence for association between relatively neutral, static facial appearance and personality traits. By using composite images rendered from three dimensional (3D) scans of women scoring high and low on health and personality dimensions, we aimed to examine the separate contributions of facial shape, skin texture and viewing angle to the detection of these traits, while controlling for crucial posture variables. After controlling for such cues, participants were able to identify Agreeableness, Neuroticism, and Physical Health. For personality traits, we found a reliable laterality bias, in that the right side of the face afforded higher accuracy than the left. The separate contributions of shape and texture cues varied with the traits being judged. Our findings are consistent with signaling theories suggesting multiple channels to convey multiple messages.
Pretargeting vs. direct targeting of human betalox5 islet cells subcutaneously implanted in mice using an anti-human islet cell antibody.	We previously demonstrated MORF/cMORF pretargeting of human islets and betalox 5 cells (a human beta cell line) transplanted subcutaneously in mice with the anti-human islet antibody, HPi1. We now compare pretargeting with direct targeting in the beta cell transplant model to evaluate the degree to which target/non-target (T/NT) ratios may be improved by pretargeting.
Repellent effect of Salvia dorisiana, S. longifolia, and S. sclarea (Lamiaceae) essential oils against the mosquito Aedes albopictus Skuse (Diptera: Culicidae).	Aedes albopictus (Diptera: Culicidae) has been one of the fastest spreading insects over the past 20 years. Its medical importance is due to the aggressive daytime human-biting behavior and the ability to vector many viruses, including dengue, LaCrosse, Eastern Equine encephalitis and West Nile viruses. In this research, the essential oils (EOs) extracted from fresh air dried leaves of Salvia dorisiana, S. longifolia, and S. sclarea (Lamiaceae) were evaluated for their repellent activity against A. albopictus by using the human-bait technique. The EOs chemical composition was also investigated, and EOs were divided in three different profiles on the basis of their chemical composition: EO with large amount of monoterpenes from S. sclarea, EO rich in oxygenated sesquiterpenes from S. dorisiana, and S. longifolia EO characterized by similar percentages of monoterpenes and sesquiterpenes. The efficacy protection from S. dorisiana, S. longifolia, and S. sclarea EOs, at dosages ranging from 0.004 to 0.4 L cm(-2) of skin, was evaluated during 120 min of observation. Results indicated that S. dorisiana, S. longifolia, and S. sclarea EOs had a significant repellent activity (RD(50)=0.00035, 0.00049, and 0.00101 L cm(-2), respectively), with differences in repellency rates, as a function of oil, dosage, and observation time. S. dorisiana was the most effective oil: at the two higher dosages, it gave almost complete protection (with a protective efficacy of 90.99% and 95.62%, respectively) for 90 min. The best protection time was achieved with S. dorisiana essential oil. It ranged from 9.2 to 92.4 min. Protection times of S. longifolia and S. sclarea oils ranged from 3.2 to 60 min, and from 3.6 to 64.2 min, respectively. Our findings clearly reveal that these EOs have a good repellent activity against A. albopictus, therefore they can be proposed to improve the efficacy of repellent formulations against the Asian tiger mosquito.
A power-efficient bio-potential acquisition device with DS-MDE sensors for long-term healthcare monitoring applications.	This work describes a power-efficient bio-potential acquisition device for long-term healthcare applications that is implemented using novel microelectromechanical dry electrodes (MDE) and a low power bio-potential processing chip. Using micromachining technology, an attempt is also made to enhance the sensing reliability and stability by fabricating a diamond-shaped MDE (DS-MDE) that has a satisfactory self-stability capability and superior electric conductivity when attached onto skin without any extra skin tissue injury technology. To acquire differential bio-potentials such as ECG signals, the proposed processing chip fabricated in a standard CMOS process has a high common mode rejection ratio (C.M.R.R.) differential amplifier and a 12-bit analog-to-digital converter (ADC). Use of the proposed system and integrate simple peripheral commercial devices can obtain the ECG signal efficiently without additional skin tissue injury and ensure continuous monitoring more than 70 hours with a 400 mAh battery.
Preliminary report of novel technique for cryopreservation--vacuum-assisted cryoprotectant infiltration.	To date, cryopreservation of large soft tissues has not been successfully achieved because of limitation of cryoprotective agent (CPA) infiltration into the tissue. This study aimed to investigate the effects of a vacuum on the tissue-infiltration of a CPA. An instant pickle-maker was modified for use as a vacuum apparatus, and glycerol was selected as the CPA. Twenty-six rats were used, and their thighs were divided into three treatment groups. Group 1: fresh control; Group 2: cryopreserved control, i.e., immersed in the CPA for 1h under atmospheric pressure and cryopreserved; Group 3: vacuum-assisted CPA infiltration, i.e., immersed in the CPA under negative pressure (20, 40 and 60 cmHg, for durations of 10, 20 and 30 min at each) and cryopreserved. The Groups 2 and 3 specimens were thawed after 3 weeks of cryopreservation at -80 C and histologically examined, in comparison with Group 1. Skin: in Groups 2 and 3, the skin was well preserved. Muscle: in Group 2, both extracellular and intracellular ice crystal formation was widely distributed throughout the muscle tissue. In Group 3, under an adequate vacuum, the muscle tissue was well preserved, with no ice crystal formation. However, when the treatment was conducted under excessive vacuum conditions, the muscle tissue showed focal necrosis. Blood vessels: in Group 3, both the arteries and veins were well preserved up to the tunica intima. The method described in this paper may be a useful technique for achieving cryopreservation of large soft tissues.
Decontamination of human and rabbit skin experimentally contaminated with 99mTc radionuclide using the active components of "Shudhika"-a skin decontamination kit.	Radioactive contamination can occur as a result of accidental or intentional release of radioactive materials (RM) into the environment. RM may deposit on clothing, skin, or hair. Decontamination of contaminated persons should be done as soon as possible to minimize the deleterious health effects of radiation. The goal of this study was to evaluate the decontamination efficiency (for residual contaminant) of the active components of "Shudhika," an indigenously developed skin decontamination kit. The study kit is for external radioactive decontamination of intact skin.
The 'take home' burden of workplace sensitizers: flour contamination in bakers' families.	Exposure to flour/flour constituents is a leading cause of occupational asthma. Paternal occupational exposure to flour has been associated with increased likelihood of childhood asthma, raising the possibility of para-occupational exposure whereby family members are exposed to sensitizers 'taken home' on contaminated skin/clothing.
Effect of path-length variations on PLSR calibration model in noninvasive measurement of blood glucose by mid-infrared spectroscopy]	In noninvasive blood glucose measurement, it is difficult to keep the contact area between skin and internal reflectance element uniform while the mid-infrared spectra of human skin are taken, and this would lead to path-length variations. To study the effect of path-length variations on PLSR calibration model, in the present paper, according to the correlation coefficients between path-lengths and glucose concentrations, two PLSR models were achieved respectively and RMSECV were 31.3 and 4.52 mg x dL(-1), RMSEP were 30.3 and 98.7 mg x dL(-1) for the validation set. The results show that the chance correlations between path-lengths and glucose concentrations will lead to calibration models with different accuracy and robustness. This is useful to improving the reliability of noninvasive measurement of blood glucose by mid-infrared spectroscopy.
Feasibility of retroreflective transdermal optical wireless communication.	There is an increasing demand for transdermal high-data-rate communication for use with in-body devices, such as pacemakers, smart prostheses, neural signals processors at the brain interface, and cameras acting as artificial eyes as well as for collecting signals generated within the human body. Prominent requirements of these communication systems include (1) wireless modality, (2) noise immunity and (3) ultra-low-power consumption for the in-body device. Today, the common wireless methods for transdermal communication are based on communication at radio frequencies, electrical induction, or acoustic waves. In this paper, we will explore another alternative to these methods--optical wireless communication (OWC)--for which modulated light carries the information. The main advantages of OWC in transdermal communication, by comparison to the other methods, are the high data rates and immunity to external interference availed, which combine to make it a promising technology for next-generation systems. In this paper, we present a mathematical model and experimental results of measurements from direct link and retroreflection link configurations with Gallus gallus domesticus derma as the transdermal channel. The main conclusion from this work is that an OWC link is an attractive communication solution in medical applications. For a modulating retroreflective link to become a competitive solution in comparison with a direct link, low-energy-consumption modulating retroreflectors should be developed.
Sensory feedback from a prosthetic hand based on air-mediated pressure from the hand to the forearm skin.	Lack of sensory feedback is a drawback in today's hand prostheses. We present here a non-invasive simple sensory feedback system, which provides the user of a prosthetic hand with sensory feedback on the arm stump. It is mediated by air in a closed loop system connecting silicone pads on the prosthetic hand with pads on the amputation stump. The silicone pads in a "tactile display" on the amputation stump expand when their corresponding sensor-bulb in the prosthesis is touched, evoking an experience of "real touch".
Nonpharmacologic approach to minimizing shivering during surface cooling: a proof of principle study.	This study had 2 objectives: (1) to quantify the metabolic response to physical cooling in febrile patients with systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) and (2) to provide proof for the hypothesis that the efficiency of external cooling and the subsequent shivering response are influenced by site and temperature of surface cooling pads.
A system for inducing concurrent tactile and nociceptive sensations at the same site using electrocutaneous stimulation.	Studies of the interaction between mechanoception and nociception would benefit from a method for stimulation of both modalities at the same location. For this purpose, we developed an electrical stimulation device. Using two different electrode geometries, discs and needles, the device is capable of inducing two distinct stimulus qualities, dull and sharp, at the same site on hairy skin. The perceived strength of the stimuli can be varied by applying stimulus pulse trains of different lengths. We assessed the perceived stimulus qualities and intensities of the two electrode geometries at two levels of physical stimulus intensity. In a first series of experiments, ten subjects participated in two experimental sessions. The subjects reported the perceived quality and intensity of four different stimulus classes on visual analogue scales (VASs). In a second series, we added a procedure in which subjects assigned descriptive labels to the stimuli. We assessed the reproducibility of the VAS scores by calculating intraclass correlation coefficients. The results showed that subjects perceived stimuli delivered through the disc electrodes as dull and those delivered through the needles as sharp. Increasing the pulse train length increased the perceived stimulus intensities without decreasing the difference in quality between the electrode types. The intraclass correlation coefficients for the VAS scores ranged from .75 to .95. The labels that were assigned for the two electrode geometries corresponded to the descriptors for nociception and touch reported by other researchers. We concluded that our device is capable of reliably inducing tactile and nociceptive sensations of controllable intensity at the same skin site.
Structural and quantitative evidence for dynamic glycome shift on production of induced pluripotent stem cells.	We recently reported that induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) prepared from different human origins acquired similar glycan profiles to one another as well as to human embryonic stem cells. Although the results strongly suggested attainment of specific glycan expressions associated with the acquisition of pluripotency, the detailed glycan structures remained to be elucidated. Here, we perform a quantitative glycome analysis targeting both N- and O-linked glycans derived from 201B7 human iPSCs and human dermal fibroblasts as undifferentiated and differentiated cells, respectively. Overall, the fractions of high mannose-type N-linked glycans were significantly increased upon induction of pluripotency. Moreover, it became evident that the type of linkage of Sia on N-linked glycans was dramatically changed from -2-3 to -2-6, and the expression of -1-2 fucose and type 1 LacNAc structures became clearly apparent, while no such glycan epitopes were detected in fibroblasts. The expression profiles of relevant glycosyltransferase genes were fully consistent with these results. These observations indicate unambiguously the manifestation of a "glycome shift" upon conversion to iPSCs, which may not merely be the result of the initialization of gene expression, but could be involved in a more aggressive manner either in the acquisition or maintenance of the undifferentiated state of iPSCs.
A novel method for visualising and quantifying through-plane skin layer deformations.	Skin is a multilayer composite and exhibits highly non-linear, viscoelastic, anisotropic material properties. In many consumer product and medical applications (e.g. during shaving, needle insertion, patient re-positioning), large tissue displacements and deformations are involved; consequently large local strains in the skin tissue can occur. Here, we present a novel imaging-based method to study skin deformations and the mechanics of interacting skin layers of full-thickness skin. Shear experiments and real-time video recording were combined with digital image correlation and strain field analysis to visualise and quantify skin layer deformations during dynamic mechanical testing. A global shear strain of 10% was applied to airbrush-patterned porcine skin (thickness: 1.2-1.6mm) using a rotational rheometer. The recordings were analysed with ARAMIS image correlation software, and local skin displacement, strain and stiffness profiles through the skin layers determined. The results of this pilot study revealed inhomogeneous skin deformation, characterised by a gradual transition from a low (2.0-5.0%; epidermis) to high (10-22%; dermis) shear strain regime. Shear moduli ranged from 20 to 130kPa. The herein presented method will be used for more extended studies on viable human skin, and is considered a valuable foundation for further development of constitutive models which can be used in advanced finite element analyses of skin.
Levamisole-induced leukocytoclastic vasculitis and neutropenia in a patient with cocaine use: an extensive case with necrosis of skin, soft tissue, and cartilage.	Levamisole-induced vasculitis is a relatively new entity in people who use cocaine. We describe a 44-year-old woman with a history of cocaine use who presented with a complaint of a painful rash of 2-3 month's duration on her extremities, cheeks, nose, and earlobes. She had not experienced fever, weight loss, alopecia, dry eyes, oral ulcers, photosensitivity, or arthralgia. Examination revealed tender purpuric eruptions with central necrosis on her nose, cheeks, earlobes, and extremities. Laboratory investigations revealed neutropenia, an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), presence of lupus anticoagulant, low complement component 3 (C3), and presence of perinuclear anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (p-ANCA). A urine toxicology screen was positive for cocaine, and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry was positive for levamisole. Skin biopsy showed leukocytoclastic vasculitis and small vessel thrombosis. Necrotic lesions of the nose led to its self-amputation. Large bullae on the lower extremities ruptured, leading to wound infection and extensive necrosis that required multiple surgical debridements. When necrosis progressed despite debridement, bilateral above-knee amputation of the legs was performed. Once new lesions stopped appearing, the patient was discharged home. Two months later, she had a recurrence related to cocaine use. To the best of our knowledge, this is only the second reported case of levamisole-induced vasculitis that required above-knee amputation.
Adverse reaction; patent blue turning patient blue.	The authors report a severe anaphylactic reaction to Patent Blue V dye used in sentinel node biopsy for lymphatic mapping during breast cancer surgery to stage the axilla. Patent Blue dye is the most widely used in the UK; however, adverse reactions have been reported with the blue dye previously. This case highlights that reactions may not always be immediately evident and to be vigilant in all patients that have undergone procedures using blue dye. If the patients are not responding appropriately particularly during an anaesthetic, one must always think of a possible adverse reaction to the dye. All surgical patients should give consent for adverse reactions to patent blue dye preoperatively. Alternative agents such as methylene blue are considered.
Effect of Colla corii asini (E'jiao) on D-galactose induced aging mice.	Colla corii asini (E'jiao), donkey-hide gelatin prepared by stewing and concentrating from Equus asinus L. donkey hide, is a traditional Chinese medicine preparation widely used in clinical hematic antanemic therapy in China. The aim of the present study was to investigate potential anti-aging effect of Colla corii asini and explore related mechanisms in D-galactose (gal) induced aging model mice. The mice were artificially induced aging by subcutaneously injection with D-gal at the dose of 100mg/kgd for 8 weeks. Colla corii asini was simultaneously treated to them once daily by intragastric gavage. Appetite, mental condition, body weight, and organ index were observed. Activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), as well as levels of malondialdehyde (MDA) in serum, brain, and liver were determined by according assay kits. Western blotting analysis was used to detect p16 and p21 expression. Results indicated that Colla corii asini could improve appetite, mental condition, body weight, and organ condition of model mice, improve SOD, CAT, and GSH-Px activities, reduce MDA levels, and modulate age-related genes expression in D-gal induced mice. Therefore, Colla corii asini may have effect to suppress the aging process through enhancing antioxidant activity, scavenging free radicals, and modulating aging-related gene expression.
Self-reported problems and wishes for plastic surgery after bariatric surgery.	In the affluent part of the world, there is an increasing occurrence of obesity with Body Mass Index (BMI) above 40, which has resulted in an increasing number of operations such as gastric bypass (GB). After massive weight loss there will often be a need for subsequent plastic surgical correction, since some of the patients will experience problems due to excess skin. Foreign studies estimate that 30% of all bariatric surgery patients will at some point seek plastic surgical correction of excess skin. The aim of this study is to investigate to what extent the GB patients themselves consider plastic surgery for removal of excess skin, and their reasons and motivations for this. The investigation was performed as an anonymous questionnaire handed out to 150 patients at the 1-year standard consultation for GB patients at a private hospital. The questionnaire contained information about demographic data, patient habits, earlier or present comorbidity, physical problems, psychological problems, and cosmetic problems due to excess skin. Also, it contained information about what anatomical area bothered the patient the most. One hundred and thirty-eight patients responded to the questionnaire, and the investigation showed that 89.9% of the patients had a wish for plastic surgery for several different reasons. This patient demand showed to have no correlation to age, gender, smoking habits, or earlier comorbidity.
Skin messages in suicide--an unusual occurrence.	Notes are found in only a minority of cases of suicide and occasionally may involve writing messages on skin surfaces. A prospective study was undertaken for cases of suicide with skin messaging over a 12-year period from 1/1/2000 to 31/12/2011. A total of 498 cases of suicide were examined with only 2 cases (0.4%) having suicide notes written on their skin. Both cases involved young males (aged 18 and 30 years respectively) with the deaths occurring by hanging. In both cases typical parchmented ligature marks were present around the neck running up to the point of suspension. Both decedents had written messages on their hands/arms expressing mixtures of sorrow and hopelessness. There were no other suicide notes present. It is not clear whether writing on skin rather than on more conventional material suggests that the suicide may not have been planned, or instead that the decedent wanted to ensure that the message was found. Messages on skin may be slightly different to messages written on other surfaces, as space is limited and pens and markers may not write as effectively. An additional problem with skin messages is their vulnerability to erasure, making clear documentation of these findings at the scene important. 
The peripheral myeloid expansion driven by murine cancer progression is reversed by radiation therapy of the tumor.	Expansion of myeloid-lineage leukocytes in tumor-bearing mice has been proposed as a cause of systemic immunosuppression. We demonstrate that radiation therapy of tumors leads to a decline in myeloid cell numbers in the blood and a decrease in spleen size. The frequency of myeloid cells does not decline to the level seen in tumor-free mice: we demonstrate that metastatic disease can prevent myeloid cell numbers from returning to baseline, and that tumor recurrence from residual disease correlates with re-expansion of myeloid lineage cells. Radiation therapy results in increased proliferation of T cells in the spleen and while T cell responses to foreign antigens are not altered by tumor burden or myeloid cell expansion, responses to tumor-associated antigens are increased after radiation therapy. These data demonstrate that myeloid cell numbers are directly linked to primary tumor burden, that this population contracts following radiation therapy, and that radiation therapy may open a therapeutic window for immunotherapy of residual disease. 
Effects of hyperbaric oxygen preconditioning on ischemia-reperfusion inflammation and skin flap survival.	Hyperbaric oxygen preconditioning (HBO) is a new method of ischemia preconditioning. In this study, we examined its effects on skin flap survival and the mechanisms involved.
Early kinetics of integration of collagen-glycosaminoglycan regenerative scaffolds in a diabetic mouse model.	Collagen-glycosaminoglycan scaffolds, originally designed to treat severe burns, are now commonly used in patients with complex wounds associated with diabetes mellitus. In this study, the authors investigated how the thickness of the scaffold would affect cellular integration with the diabetic host and whether this can be accelerated using subatmospheric pressure wound therapy devices.
Interfacing of dextran coated ferrite nanomaterials with cellular system and delayed hypersensitivity on Guinea pigs.	The study focused on the interfacing of dextran coated ferrite nanomaterials (DFNM) with the cellular system and delayed hypersensitivity on Guinea pigs. In vitro study investigated the cytotoxic potential of DFNM on L929 cells, effect on antioxidant enzymes and Lipid peroxides (LPO) production on rat brain homogenates. DFNM was also repeatedly exposed topically to Guinea pigs for the evidence of skin sensitization and toxicity at the molecular level. Biochemical and hematological parameters were estimated. Liver and brain of Guinea pigs were homogenized and evaluated for the induction of LPO, glutathione (GSH), glutathione reductase (GR), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and 8-hydroxyl-2-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG). The results of the study demonstrated that there was no significant alternation in the level of antioxidant defense enzymes, LPO, hematological, biochemical or oxidative stress related DNA damage. Hence, it can be concluded that the synthesized DFNM was non-skin irritant or non-toxic at the molecular level under the laboratory conditions. 
Laser fractional photothermolysis of the skin: numerical simulation of microthermal zones.	Laser Fractional Photothermolysis (FP) is one of the innovative techniques for skin remodeling and resurfacing. During treatment, the control of the Microscopic Thermal Zones' (MTZs) dimensions versus pulse energy requires detailed knowledge of the various parameters governing the heat transfer process. In this study, a mathematical model is devised to simulate the effect of pulse energy variations on the dimensions of MTZs.
A multi-digit tactile motion stimulator.	One of the hallmarks of haptic exploration is that it typically involves movement between skin and object. Explored objects may contact multiple digits simultaneously so information about motion must be integrated across digits, a process about which little is known.
Pathogenic: light or dark skin?	Currently, we use the term "pathogenicity" to indicate whether a variant in a gene has an influence on the phenotype or not. As this term is confusing, not neutral, and incorrectly refers to a disease state, it seems better to use a more neutral term. The suggestion is to use "affects function." 
Gene expression changes in chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy skin biopsies.	Chronic-inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) is an immune-mediated disease with no known biomarkers for diagnosing the disease or assessing its prognosis. We performed transcriptional profiling microarray analysis on skin punch biopsies from 20 CIDP patients and 17 healthy controls to identify disease-associated gene expression changes. We demonstrate changes in expression of genes involved in immune and chemokine regulation, growth and repair. We also found a combination of two upregulated genes that can be proposed as a novel biomarker of the disorder.
The distance from skin to cervical and high thoracic epidural space on chinese adults as read from MRI.	A few studies on the depth from the skin to the cervical epidural space (DSES) have been reported from the United States, South Korea, Japan, and Taiwan. There are no published reports from mainland China.
Effect of very early skin to skin contact on success at breastfeeding and preventing early hypothermia in neonates.	Birth and immediate postpartum period pose many challenges for the newborn. The neonatal mortality rates are high in India, whereas the breastfeeding rates are still low. Hence, need exists for a simple and easily applicable intervention, which may counter these challenges.
Fibroblast-specific common fragile sites induced by aphidicolin.	The distribution and frequency of aphidicolin-induced common fragile sites were studied in chromosomes of cultured skin fibroblasts and PHA-stimulated lymphocytes from five normal individuals; 0.2 microM aphidicolin was added for the last 26 h of culture. Skin fibroblasts from five fra(X)-positive patients were also studied in the same manner. Fragile sites most frequently found in fibroblasts from normal individuals were 3q26.2, 7q11.23, 16q23, 1p31, 10q11.2, 12q23 and 7q31, whereas those in lymphocytes from the same individuals were 3p14, 16q23, Xp22, 7q32 and 14q24. The distribution of fragile sites in fibroblasts from fra(X)-positive patients was essentially identical with that in normal individuals. The average number of gaps and breaks in 100 metaphases was 36.8 in fibroblasts from normal individuals, 113.8 in those from fra(X)-positive patients, and 279 in lymphocytes from normal individuals. Their rates of chromosome-type breaks and gaps were 7.9%, 29.7% and 54.5%, respectively. Thus, the distribution and frequency of aphidicolin-induced fragile sites were different between skin fibroblasts and lymphocytes, possibly reflecting differences in their DNA replication sequence or gene activity.
The specificity of the reaction of collagen with platelets.	1. Human platelets will react with a number of different collagens from guinea-pig to ostrich. 2. Human skin collagen when treated with pepsin does not react with human platelets. 3. Calf platelets display a different pattern of reactivity than that of human platelets.
Isolation, characterization and nature of carbohydrate-peptide linkage of an alkali-extractable non-collagenous glycoprotein from albino rat skins.	A glycoprotein was isolated from young albino rat skins by alkali extraction under mild conditions and purified by Sephadex G-200 and DEAE-Sephadex A-50 chromatography. It was found to be homogeneous by agar gel electrophoresis. It had a molecular weight of approximately 90,000 and contained galactose, mannose, fucose, N-acetylglucosamine, N-acetylgalactosamine and sialic acids as its carbohydrate constituents. The release of sialic acids from the glycoprotein by neuraminidase indicated their terminal positions in the carbohydrate chains. The glycoprotein lacked hydroxyproline which indicates its non-collagenous nature. The treatment of the glycoprotein with alkaline borohydride resulted in the decrease of threonine, serine and N-acetylgalactosamine contents. The presence of O-glycosidic linkage of N-acetylgalactosamine with serine and threonine is therefore suggested.
Use of subcutaneous abdominal fat biopsy specimen for detailed typing of amyloid fibril protein-AL by amino acid sequence analysis.	A simple technique for the purification of amyloid fibril proteins from patients with systemic amyloidosis was used on a 45 year old woman. The method is based on the use of a surgical subcutaneous fat tissue biopsy specimen which was used for the characterisation of the amyloid as a kappa I AL-protein by amino acid sequence analysis. The method permits the exact typing of amyloid in many patients with systemic amyloidosis, which, until now has been almost exclusively confined to necropsy tissue.
Light scattering studies of bovine skin proteodermatan sulfate.	The proteodermatan sulfate (PDS) of bovine skin is a low molecular weight proteoglycan with a molecular structure consisting of a protein chain and a sulfated polysaccharide chain covalently linked at the 4-serine of the protein. Static and dynamic laser light scattering methods have been used to determine the weight-average molecular weight, Mw, zeta-average radius of gyration, Rg zeta, and zeta-average translational diffusion coefficient, Dto, zeta, of bovine skin PDS. We have also characterized the two components of PDS, i.e., the protein core and the dermatan sulfate (DS) chain. (The latter contained an N-terminal-linked penta- or tetrapeptide.) Interpretation of the PDS data is complicated by the block copolymer nature of its structure. When appropriate corrections are made, our results indicate that Mw for PDS monomer is 62,000 when dissolved in 4M guanidine hydrochloride (GdnHCl), and increases to 610,000 in 0.15M NaCl. Mw for the core protein in 4M GdnHCl is 39,000, and this also increases substantially to 650,000 in 0.15M NaCl. In contrast, Mw for the DS chain is 24,000 in 0.15M NaCl, indicating that there is minimal self-association of DS in 0.15M NaCl. Thus we conclude that the self-association of PDS involves the protein core. Comparison of Rg zeta and Rh, the average hydrodynamic radius, suggests that trace amounts of aggregation persist for the PDS and its core protein even in 4M GdnHCl. This conclusion is supported by evaluation of the second moments of the dynamic light scattering correlation function. Comparisons of the observed Dto, zeta for PDS with predicted values using hydrodynamic theory are consistent with a "lollipop" conformation for the molecule.
Optimal conditions for the storage of split-thickness skin at 4C]	Split-thickness human skin must, out of necessity, be stored for days to years prior to usage as a burn wound covering. This study was designed to utilized three different parameters of tissue viability in order to determine optimum conditions for skin survival at 4 degrees C for various periods of time in RPMI-1640 media. Viability was determined by 1) trypan blue dye exclusion of trypsinized basal cells (TBC), 2) 14C-leucine incorporation into TBC, and 3) in vitro skin explant growth. Electron microscopy was also done on selected samples.
Factor XIII cross-linking of fibronectin at cellular matrix assembly sites.	We describe the effect of activated Factor XIII (Factor XIIIa, plasma transglutaminase) on the incorporation of plasma fibronectin into extracellular matrix by cultured human fibroblasts. In the absence of added Factor XIIIa, fibronectin binds to cultured fibroblast cell layers and is assembled into disulfide-bonded multimers of the extracellular matrix. When Factor XIIIa was included in the binding medium of skin fibroblasts, accumulation of 125I-fibronectin in the deoxycholate-insoluble matrix was increased. Fibronectin accumulating in the cell layer was cross-linked into nonreducible high molecular weight aggregates. The 70-kDa amino-terminal fragment of fibronectin inhibited the binding and cross-linking of 125I-fibronectin to cell layers, whereas fibrinogen had little effect. When 125I-fibronectin was incubated with isolated matrices or with cell layers pretreated with cytochalasin B, it did not bind and could not be cross-linked by Factor XIIIa into the matrix. HT-1080 human fibrosarcoma cells bound exogenous fibronectin following treatment with dexamethasone; Factor XIIIa cross-linked the bound fibronectin and caused its efficient transfer to the deoxycholate-insoluble matrix. These results indicate that exogenous fibronectin is susceptible to Factor XIIIa-catalyzed cross-linking at cellular sites of matrix assembly. Thus, Factor XIIIa-mediated fibronectin cross-linking complements disulfide-bonded multimer formation in the stabilization of assembling fibronectin molecules and thus enhances the formation of extracellular matrix.
Prevention of occupational skin disease through use of chemical protective gloves.	Selection of chemical protective gloves for use against industrial liquids in the controlled workplace is accomplished by risk analysis, in which the appropriate physical and chemical glove properties needed by the worker to perform the job are determined. Candidate protective gloves are then subjected to chemical permeation testing. Three representative case studies illustrate risk analysis and glove selection.
A 43-kDa papain inhibitor produced by a cultured human epidermal cell line.	Epidermis-derived cells (NCTC 2544) were cultured and the proteins of the culture medium, as well as of the cells, were fractionated by gel-chromatography. The fractions were analyzed for their papain-inhibitory capacity and for the presence of so-called 43-kDa papain inhibitor. A papain inhibitor was identified with molecular weight and immunological characteristics similar to the original 43-kDa inhibitor that was isolated from psoriatic scales. The result proves that NCTC-2544 cells can produce the so-called psoriasis inhibitor under culture conditions.
Chronic tympanomastoiditis with formation of calculi.	Numerous calculi of varying sizes and shapes were discovered in the mastoid, antrum, and attic during mastoid surgery for persistent chronic suppurative inflammation of the middle ear cleft with retroauricular and external meatal fistulas in an 8-year-old boy. Light microscopic and scanning electron microscopic examinations and x-ray microanalysis revealed the calculi to consist of masses of crystals containing calcium-oxalate and calcium- and magnesium-phosphate. No signs of tuberculosis were found. Since the patient had multiple dysplasias, including ipsilateral macrotia, in addition to chronic otitis media and mastoiditis, it is suggested that the formation of the calculi may have been due to congenital predisposition.
Exudate polymorphonuclear leukocytes isolated from skin chambers are primed for enhanced response to subsequent stimulation with chemoattractant f-Met-Leu-Phe and C3-opsonized yeast particles.	The ability to respond metabolically to stimulation with both soluble and particulate substances was investigated in human polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNLs) isolated from an aseptic inflammatory reaction. Exudate PMNLs isolated from skin chambers (E-PMNLs) and blood PMNLs isolated from the peripheral blood (B-PMNLs) of the same individual were investigated in parallel. E-PMNLs were primed, resulting in an increased chemiluminescence (CL) response to subsequent stimulation with the chemotactic peptide formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine (FMLP) (334%) and serum-opsonized yeast particles (C3 yeast) (201%), as compared to B-PMNLs. Phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) on the other hand, induced a CL response in E-PMNLs that was only 70% of the response obtained in B-PMNLs. A similar primed state resulting in enhancement of the CL response to FMLP and C3 yeast could be induced in B-PMNLs by pretreatment with a bacterial culture filtrate. Pretreatment of E-PMNLs with the bacterial culture filtrate, however, did not increase the CL response to FMLPs any further. The enhanced functional response to FMLPs in E-PMNLs was accompanied by an increased binding of the peptide, demonstrated by a doubling of the amount of bound f-Met-Leu-[3H]Phe (209%), as compared to B-PMNLs. The increased C3-yeast-induced CL generation in E-PMNLs was accompanied by an increased ingestion and attachment of C3-opsonized yeast particles. The enhancement of phagocytosis in E-PMNLs was, however, dependent upon the opsonin used, since IgG-opsonized yeast particles were phagocytosed to the same extent by E-PMNLs and B-PMNLs, thereby indicating that selective receptor modulation is also involved in the priming of E-PMNLs for an enhanced response to C3-yeast. These results show that exudate cells isolated from skin chambers are modulated with respect to receptor-mediated functions resulting in an increased metabolic response to FMLP coupled with an increased binding of the peptide and an increased phagocytosis of C3-coated yeast particles. Receptor modulation during exudation may be an important mechanism in regulating the inflammatory response by PMNLs.
Human skin fibroblasts in vitro differentiate along a terminal cell lineage.	Secondary mitotic human skin fibroblast populations in vitro underwent 53 +/- 6 cumulative population doublings (CPD) in 302 +/- 27 days. When the growth capacity of the mitotic fibroblasts is exhausted, and if appropriate methods are applied, the fibroblasts differentiate spontaneously into postmitotic fibroblast populations, which were kept in stationary culture for up to 305 +/- 41 additional days. Mitotic and postmitotic fibroblast populations are heterogeneous populations with reproducible changes in the proportions of mitotic fibroblasts F I, F II, and F III, and postmitotic fibroblasts F IV, F V, F VI, and F VII. This process makes it evident that the fibroblasts differentiate spontaneously along a seven-stage terminal cell lineage F I-F II-F III-F IV-F V-F VI-F VII. Shifts in the frequencies of the mitotic and postmitotic fibroblasts in mass populations are accompanied by alterations in the [35S]methionine polypeptide pattern of the developing mass populations. The [35S]methionine polypeptide patterns of homogeneous subpopulations of F I, F II, F III, F IV, F V, and F VI isolated from heterogeneous mass populations reveal that the six fibroblast morphotypes studied express their cell-type-specific [35S]methionine polypeptide pattern in the heterogeneous mass populations.
PGE2 causes a coordinate decrease in the steady state levels of fibronectin and types I and III procollagen mRNAs in normal human dermal fibroblasts.	Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) caused inhibition of collagen and fibronectin synthesis by confluent cultures of human dermal fibroblasts. Dot-blot hybridization to cDNA probes complementary to Types I and III procollagens and fibronectin demonstrated that inhibition of protein production was accompanied by a coordinate decrease in the steady-state levels of the corresponding mRNAs. Blockade of transcription by actinomycin D demonstrated that PGE2 did not alter the stability of these mRNA. These results indicate that PGE2 is capable of exerting modulation of extracellular matrix biosynthesis, and that these effects occur at a transcriptional level.
Zeta potential of synthetic and biological skin substitutes: effects on initial adherence.	Early adherence of a skin substitute to the wound surface is paramount if it is to function as a skin equivalent. A surface electrical property (the zeta potential) was evaluated, and a positive correlation was found in which 5-hour adherence properties increased as the zeta potential became more positive. The following materials were tested: nylon-silicone composite (Z = -24.8 mV), Biobrane (Z = -15.2 mV), fresh-frozen porcine skin (Z = +12.5 mV), Opsite (Z = +14.9 mV), human amnion (Z = +18.2 mV), and human skin (Z = +23.0 mV). This order was also followed for increasing adherence values at 5 hours, which ranged from a low of 48.9 gm/cm2 for the nylon-silicone composite to a high of 88 gm/cm2 for human skin. Also determined was that both adherence and zeta potential decreased as increasing concentrations of glutaraldehyde were used to cross-link fresh-frozen porcine skin. Values ranged from a maximum of 85.5 gm/cm2 (0% glutaraldehyde; Z = +12.5 mV) to a minimum of 42.5 gm/cm2 (10% glutaraldehyde; Z = -26.4 mV). Additionally, deliberate biochemical modifications of porcine skin were undertaken in an attempt to increase zeta potential and adherence.
The use of "artificial skin" for burns.	An artificial skin composed of epidermal and dermal analogues has been successfully used in animal models and in severely burned patients. The development of skin substitutes, the clinical use of artificial skin, and future physiologic skin replacements are discussed.
Regional variation in HDL metabolism in human fat cells: effect of cell size.	Abdominal obesity is related to reduced plasma high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, and both are associated with cardiovascular disease risk. We have observed that plasma membranes from abdominal subcutaneous adipocytes have a greater HDL binding capacity than omental fat cell plasma membranes. The present study examined whether these binding characteristics could be due to differences in fat cell size or cholesterol concentration between the two adipose depots. Abdominal subcutaneous and deep omental fat were obtained from massively obese patients at surgery. Subcutaneous abdominal fat cells were significantly larger and their cellular cholesterol content greater than omental adipocytes. The uptake of HDL by collagenase-isolated fat cells was studied by incubating the cells for 2 h at 37 degrees C with 10 micrograms/ml 125I-HDL2 or 125I-HDL3. In both depots, the cellular uptake of 125I-HDL2 and 125I-HDL3 was specifically inhibited by addition of 25-fold excess unlabeled HDL and a close correlation was observed between the cellular uptake of 125I-HDL2 and 125I-HDL3. In obese patients, the uptake of 125I-HDL was higher in subcutaneous cells than in omental cells [5.85 +/- 0.53 vs. 2.74 +/- 0.30 pmol X 2 h-1. (10(6) cells)-1]. The cellular 125I-HDL uptake was significantly correlated with adipocyte size and fat cell cholesterol content but not with adipocyte cholesterol concentration. These results suggest that the higher HDL uptake observed in subcutaneous cells compared with omental cells in obesity is the result of differences in adipocyte size rather than differences in the cholesterol concentration (cholesterol-to-triglyceride ratio).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Reproducibility of somatosensory evoked potentials and EEG in normal humans under hyperbaric oxygenation]	Hyperbaric oxygenation (HBO) was reported to have a favorable influence on ischemic brain dysfunction, and also appeared to be useful in improving brain edema. Somatosensory evoked potentials (SEP) and EEG would be available as indicators of brain function. The purpose of this paper is to study reproducibility of the N1-amplitude of SEP and EEG under HBO. Materials were 10 normal volunteers, from 21 to 31 (mean age: 26) years old. Two stimulating needle electrodes were inserted into the skin at the wrist and somatosensory stimulations were applied to the median nerve with 1 msec duration square pulses. Stimulation pulses were generated regularly every 1 sec., and stimulus intensity was adjusted just above the thumb twitch threshold. Monopolar EEGs were recorded from 16 silver-cup electrodes on the scalp, and SEPs were recorded by averaging 250 responses in those EEGs using computer technique. N1-amplitude was determined by the vertical distance between peaks of the P1 and N1 components. EEGs were analyzed by Fast Fourier Transform and the square root of the averaged power of each frequency band (delta, theta, alpha 1, alpha 2, beta) was obtained and evaluated as the equivalent potential. EEGs under the influence of sleeping or artifacts, such as electromyograms, eye lid movements and wandering of the base line, were excluded in evaluating the EEGs. SEPs and EEGs recorded consecutively. The first record was taken before HBO under air breathing at 1ATA, the second during HBO under pure oxygen breathing at 2ATA, and the third after HBO under air breathing at 1ATA once again.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Recommendation for collection of skin puncture blood from children, with special reference to production of reference values.	Reliable reference values need to be collected under standardized conditions. In order to enable comparison of values observed on patients with reference values, it is also desirable to use the same standardized conditions on patients. The present recommendation was produced as a joint effort of representatives of the clinical chemists and paediatricians of Scandinavia and describes the following details. Preparation of the child before specimen collection (food intake, time of day, physical activity, posture, environment), preparation of skin puncture site (warming, disinfection, ointment), instruments for blood collection (lancet, blood collection vessel), site of puncture (plantar surface of foot, finger, ear lobe), collection of emerging blood and handling and storage of the specimen.
Endoscopic insertion of endoprostheses in the treatment of postoperative cutaneous biliary fistula.	We report a case in which a large, postoperative, biliary cutaneous fistula was successfully treated by means of endoscopic insertion of two endoprostheses into the common bile duct. Twenty-four hours after the procedure, bile flow from the cutaneous fistula ceased completely. The endoprostheses were removed after 6 weeks, and no evidence of leak from the biliary tract was seen on a retrograde cholangiogram. For the treatment of postoperative biliary leaks, insertion of endoprostheses is a good and safe alternative to surgery.
Cholesterol content of broiler breast fillets heated with and without the skin in convection and conventional ovens.	Six treatment combinations for the heating of broiler breast fillets were investigated: three skin variables (heated and analyzed with skin, heated with and analyzed without skin, and heated and analyzed without skin) and two heating systems (convection broiling and conventional roasting). Matched broiler breast fillets were analyzed raw or breaded and heated to 82 C. Raw and cooked samples of meat, skin, and meat with skin were analyzed for moisture, fat, and cholesterol contents. In the raw state, samples of meat with skin contained greater moisture and fat contents, but similar cholesterol contents, when compared with samples of meat alone. Fillets heated by convection broiling had greater cooking losses but shorter heating times compared with conventionally roasted samples. Fillets with the skin removed before or after heating contained more moisture, less fat, and less cholesterol than samples cooked and analyzed with the skin present.
Pluronic F-127 gel preparation as an artificial skin in the treatment of third-degree burns in pigs.	A blinded study was designed to provide qualitative and quantitative evaluation on the possible therapeutic benefits of the use of Pluronic Polyol F-127 as a substitute skin in standardized third-degree thermal burns. Three separate burns, approximately 1600 mm2, were induced on the shaved backs of young, anesthetized pigs. Each animal served as its own control. One burn site was left untreated while the other two sites were covered with coded preparations of the Pluronic F-127 gel with additives. Polaroid photographs with a fixed focal-length camera were taken of all burn sites for planimetry analysis. Biopsies taken confirmed that third-degree burns were achieved. The pigs were followed for 30 days. The rate of healing of third-degree thermal burns was significantly accelerated over control sites when treated with Pluronic Polyol F-127 plus propylene glycol. When the bacteriostatic agent Garamycin was also added, the rate of healing remained significantly better than untreated controls. With the addition of Piracetam, burn wound healing was actually retarded within 30 days, when applied topically. Thus, wound healing was both accelerated and retarded as a function of the particular Pluronic preparation used to treat specific burn sites. This experimental modulation of wound healing suggests that the non-ionic poloxamer, Pluronic F-127, can significantly enhance the rate of wound healing by some unknown mechanism, possibly by stimulation of epithelial growth factor (EGF).
Check size and defocusing effects on equipotential maps of pattern-evoked electroretinograms.	The spatial distribution of the pattern-evoked potentials on the face was studied with a simultaneous 16-channel recording system. The potentials had the first positive component at a peak latency of approximately 55 msec, which was much earlier than the latency of the response picked up from the scalp. The maximal potential value in the maps was found at the region around the stimulated eye. This configuration of the equipotential map was not influenced by defocusing and check size of the pattern, but was altered by changing the contrast. Our results of equipotential maps constructed at around 55 msec after pattern reversal proved that the responses recorded in the facial region originated in the retina and were not a reflection of the scalp potentials.
Effectiveness of biological dressings made of porcine skin in the treatment of burns]	The observation and estimation of results of treatment of 145 patients with burns have shown high efficiency of a biological dressing of porcine skin treated with chemical anticeptics (formaldehyde).
Percutaneous puncture guided by ultrasonic multitransducer scanning.	A technique for percutaneous puncture guided by real-time scanning is described. By means of a special puncture adaptor fastened to one end of a multitransducer, a needle can be guided in the plane of scanning in an adjustable angle to the transducer front. By this technique, the puncture target as well as the needle can be monitored on the real-time image during the entire puncture procedure. The technique has been used for amniocentesis, fine needle biopsy of a renal mass, renal cyst puncture, and pericardiocentesis.
Outbreak of Campbell de Morgan spots.	An outbreak of small angiomatous lesions with the same clinical and histological features as Campbell de Morgan spots in adults is described. No infective agent was discovered, but their number was found to increase as the ambient temperature rose.
Marsupial cells in long-term culture.	Cell lines have been developed from several species of Australian marsupials and studied during long-term growth. Cell lines developed from macropodid skin or heart tissues all had reproducible finite life-spans. However, cell lines developed from dasyurids showed bariable behavior in culture: lines developed from Antechinus stuartii and Dasyurus viverrinus had finite life-spans, while lines developed from Sminthopsis crassicaudata had indefinite life-spans. S. crassicaudata lines usually became heteroplloid, but one was still diploid after 150 population doublings, while another contained a proportion (10%) of haploid cells. Other lines were developed from the peramelid, Perameles nasuta, and the phanlngerid, Trichosurus vulpecula.
The stimulation of DNA synthesis by cytochalasin B in proliferative epidermal and dermal cells.	Cytochalasin B influences a variety of cellular events that are associated with the contractile microfilament system and the formation of binucleate cells. Along with the formation of binucleate cells, cytochalasin B also causes an acceleration of cells from G1 to S in the cell cycle. By pulsing the cytochalasin B for 30 minutes and allowing for a previously established lag time (17.5 hours) a stimulation of thymidine incorporation into DNA of proliferative epidermal and dermal cells was found in both control and stripped epidermis. Autoradiographic analysis confirmed that the stimulation was due to an increased number of basal cells accelerated from G1 to S phase. A minimal number of binucleate basal cells, 1 in 300, was observed, which suggests that the stimulated synthesis is independent of binucleate cell formation. The amount of stimulation is maximum with cytochalasin B concentration pulse between 5gamma and 30gamma/ml. The results suggest a possible link in coupling cell membrane and surface events with subsequent increased cell nuclei synthetic activity.
Percutaneous transhepatic pancreatic vein catheterization in localization of insulinoma.	Localization of pancreatic insulinomas can present considerable operative difficulty. Blind pancreatic resections are likely to miss the tumor and are associated with the concomitant morbidity and mortality of repeated explorations and resections. While arteriography is often very helpful in locating the tumor preoperatively, there are some patients in whom a tumor blush cannot be seen. The use of percutaneous transhepatic pancreatic vein sampling for radioimmune insulin assay is reviewed, with particular emphasis on its usefulness in locating a small insulinoma. The technique is readily adaptable to other endocrine-secreting tumors of the pancreas.
Indirect immunofluorescent localization of benzo[a]pyrene adducted to nucleic acids in cultured mouse keratinocyte nuclei.	The localization of benzo[a]pyrene-deoxyguanosine adducts was studied by indirect immunofluorescence in cultured BALB/c epidermal cells exposed to (+/-) 7 alpha, 8 alpha-dihydroxy-9 alpha, 10 alpha-epoxy-7,8,9,10-tetrahydrobenzo[a]pyrene (the anti-isomer) utilizing an antiserum specific for the major benzo[a]pyrene-deoxyguanosine adduct in DNA. This antiserum does not cross-react with benzo[a]pyrene or DNA alone. When cultured keratinocytes were incubated with the carcinogen for 1 h, the immunofluorescence was localized in the nucleus as intense spots on a background of diffuse fluorescence. Fluorescence was absent from cells not exposed to carcinogen and from carcinogen-exposed cells incubated with normal rabbit serum in place of the antiserum. Fluorescence was abolished when the specific antiserum was absorbed with the immunogen DNA prior to incubation with cells, and substantially diminished when exposed cells were preincubated with deoxyribonuclease before the application of the specific antiserum. Incubation of exposed cells with ribonuclease prior to incubation with the specific antiserum removed the bright fluorescent spots and resulted in fluorescent nuclei containing dark sports in similar frequency. Dose-response studies in which benzo[a]pyrene-deoxyguanosine adducts were quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and compared with intensity of immunofluorescence demonstrated that decreasing doses of the carcinogen resulted in fewer numbers of adducts as well as proportionally less fluorescence. When cells were exposed to non-toxic doses of the activated carcinogen for 1 h, nuclear fluorescence was detectable in immediately-fixed cells but faded to non-detectable levels when cells were washed and cultured for an additional 24-48 h before fixation.
A simple technique for preparation of chicken-embryo-skin cell cultures.	A simple, rapid technique was developed for preparing chicken-embryo-skin cell cultures utilizing trypsinization of the skin of intact 12-day-old chicken embryos. When cell cultures were inoculated with fowl pox virus, those that consisted of at least 80% epithelial cells yielded a higher virus titer than fibroblast cell cultures.
Low infectivity of vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) particles released from interferon-treated cells is related to glycoprotein deficiency.	We have investigated the mechanism for the low infectivity of vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) released from interferon (IFN) -treated cells. With 10-30 units/ml of IFN there was an approximately 5-30 fold reduction in the production of virus particles, as measured by VSV proteins; however, the infectivity of the VSV released from IFN-treated mouse LB, JLS-V9R, or human GM2504 was drastically reduced (2 to 4 logs). The low infectivity of VSV was directly related to a deficiency in virion glycoprotein (G). IFN treatment did not change the specific infectivity of the VSV particles released by HeLa cells; their G protein was also not reduced. A further effect of IFN to reduce the amount of virion M protein appeared to be secondary and was probably not related to the reduced infectivity of VSV.
Variations in 5'-nucleotidase activity in established mesenchymal cell lines from syngeneic A/J mice.	5'-Nucleotidase activity was analyzed in four different mesenchymal cell lines (F, m, e and SP) established from syngeneic A/J mice. The 5'-nucleotidase activity of fibroblasts was lower in transformed cells (F and m) than in nontransformed cells (e). An increase in cell contact during confluence or during high cell density increased 5'-nucleotidase activity, and a decrease in cell contact caused a decrease in 5'-nucleotidase activity in both fibroblastic (F, m and e) and reticulum (SP) cell lines. These results are evidence that 5'-nucleotidase activity in mesenchymal cells is influenced by intercellular contact as well as transformation.
Neuro-oculo-cutaneous syndrome with multiple sebaceous nevi. Presentation of a case]	The authors present a case of multiple sebaceous naevi associated with severe mental retardation and ocular lesions in a six month-old female. Several elevated yellowish lesions were present in the skin of the face and an extensive atrophic lesion was observed in the scalp. Histopathological examination of the elevated yellowish plaque disclosed hyperplasia of mature sebaceous glands. In the linear lesion it was observed hyperplasia of hypotrophic sebaceous glands. Otherwise in the atrophic lesion of the scalp atrophy of the dermis associated with marked hypoplasia of the skin appendages was observed. The authors believe that the different cutaneous pathological aspects of this syndrome are related to the clinical morphology of the lesions and not to the age of the patient. The ophthalmological examination revealed bilateral optic atrophy, bilateral choristomas of the conjuntiva and a coloboma of the choroid and retina in the right eye. A review of the literature revealed eleven cases of sebaceous naevi associated with neurologic and/or ocular manifestations but only three cases of the neuro-oculo-cutaneous syndrome. The present case probably represents the fourth case of this syndrome in the literature.
Advantages and disadvantages of a 5.7 MeV linear accelerator compared to a 60Co-unit (author's transl)]	A comparison between a 60Co therapy unit and a 5.7 MeV linac shows the following advantages of the accelerator: 1. More favourable depth dose distribution with an improvement of the field homogeneity in the midplane for mantle techniques by a factor of 3 without the use of compensating filters. 2. Change of the maximum from 4 to 12 mm depth and thereby better skin sparing and greater dose tolerance of the skin and subcutaneous tissue. 3. Up to 10 times less penumbra. 4. Increased and stable dose rate of approximately 250 rd/min. At the moment the main disadvantages are the 20 to 30% higher purchase and running costs, and furthermore a downtime of at least 1 week per year for servicing and repair.
A new method for the transcutaneous measurement of deep body temperature during anaesthesia and intensive care (author's transl)]	A new method for monitoring deep body temperature is described. It is based on the establishment, by means of electronic appliances, of a zone without heatflow from the deep tissues. The method is simple and the results compare favourably with those obtained by other procedures for measuring core temperature. The uses of this transcutaneous mehtod are discussed and its advantages and reliability in the operating theatre and intensive care unit are emphasized. It becomes less reliable if it is employed during and after extracorporeal circulation in hypothermia on account of the temperature gradient.
Radiation dose in renal magnification angiography compared with conventional angiography (author's transl)]	Measurements of skin dose, integrated skin dose area, and integral dose in combined conventional and magnification renal angiography using lanthanoxibromide screens MR 600 and carbon fibre plate in filmchangertop have been made. The mean skin dose in magnification technique was 0.56 rad./film with focus-skin distance of 35 cm, FFD 1 m, 85-90 kV and sagittal diameter of abdomen of 20 cm. The combination of angiographic technique with and without magnification and the use of a high-sensitivity receiving unit makes it possible to keep the total skin dose per investigation (8.5 rad.) within the limits accepted in conventional abdominal angiography.
Surface electrical stimulation in the treatment of idiopathic scoliosis: preliminary results in 30 patients.	From 1978 to 1981, 30 patients have been treated for idiopathic scoliosis with surface electrical stimulation using the E.S.O. (Electro Spinal Orthosis) Single Channel designed by Medtronics. The criteria for selection were: patients who were skeletally immature; single thoracic, thoracolumbar or lumbar curvatures between 30 degrees and 40 degrees; or the same curve pattern greater than 20 degrees with 5 degrees of documented progression in one year; patient and family reliability. Patients with previous treatment were excluded from the study. No one was more than 15 years of age. Curve amplitude was between 25 degrees and 35 degrees in 72% of the patients. Curve pattern was single thoracic in 28 patients, thoracolumbar in one, and lumbar in one. Five patients were excluded from the evaluation of the results of stimulation of the correction of the curve. Of the 25 patients remaining, one was improved, 14 were stable, two had mild acceptable progression (less than 10 degrees with no need for further treatment), and eight had an unacceptable progression greater than 10 degrees requiring some form of alternative treatment. The authors conclude that significant improvement in the curvatures under treatment was extremely unlikely, that progression may have been stopped in some curves, that the curvatures under 30 degrees had the best results, and that curvatures that do not respond to surface electrical stimulation are not likely to respond to a Milwaukee brace treatment.
Quantitative comparison of inhibition in spinal cord of nociceptive information by stimulation in periaqueductal gray or nucleus raphe magnus of the cat.	The descending inhibition of spinal neuronal responses by focal electrical stimulation in the periaqueductal gray (PAG) or nucleus raphe magnus (NRM) was quantitatively studied and compared in the anesthetized, paralyzed cat. All 60 dorsal horn neurons studied were driven by electrical stimulation of hindlimb cutaneous nerves at strengths supramaximal for activation of A-alpha,delta- and C-fibers, and 52 also responded to noxious radiant heating (50 degrees C, 10 s) of the skin of the foot- or toepads; 8 units had receptive fields in the hairy skin of the hindlimb. All neurons studied also responded to mechanical stimuli; recording sites were located in laminae I-VI of the dorsal horn. The inhibition of spinal neuronal heat-evoked responses by stimulation in the PAG or NRM differed quantitatively when examined on the same spinal neurons. Inhibition of heat-evoked spinal neuronal responses occurred at a lower threshold of stimulation in the NRM than in the PAG. The mean intensity of stimulation in the NRM producing an attenuation to 50% of the control 50 degrees C heat-evoked response was significantly lower than the mean intensity of stimulation in the PAG producing a 50% attenuation of the same spinal units. The mean magnitude of inhibition produced by stimulation in the NRM was significantly greater than that produced on the same spinal units by the same intensity of stimulation in the PAG. However, stimulation in the NRM and PAG produced the same mean percent change in inhibition per 100-microA increase in the intensity of stimulation. Thus, the slopes of the recruitment of descending inhibition from the PAG and the NRM as a function of increasing intensities of stimulation are the same; the lines of recruitment of inhibition are parallel. When examined on the same dorsal horn units, stimulation in the PAG influenced their intensity coding to graded noxious heating of the skin differently than did stimulation in the NRM. The responses of the class 2 and class 3 spinal units examined to increasing temperatures of heat applied to the skin was a monotonic linear function throughout the temperature range studied (42-50 degrees C). Stimulation in the PAG decreased the slope of the stimulus-response function (SRF) without affecting unit thresholds of response, thus influencing the gain control of nociceptive transmission in the dorsal horn. Stimulation in the NRM produced a parallel shift to the right of the SRF, influencing the set point and threshold of response.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Relationship between the fatty acid composition of the diet and that of the subcutaneous adipose tissue in individual human subjects.	The fatty acid composition of the diet, measured by means of a two-day record, was compared with the fatty acid composition of subcutaneous body fat in 321 free-living adults. In spite of the known imprecision of dietary survey methods, highly significant correlations (r = 0.5) were found between the polyunsaturated fatty acid content or the polyunsaturated-to-saturated fatty acid ratio of the adipose tissue and the corresponding variable in the diet. It was estimated that complete elimination of the noise inherent in the measurement of an individual's fatty acid intake might have resulted in correlation coefficients of the order of 0.8. Analysis of subcutaneous fat biopsies merits consideration as a simple and reproducible measure of the dietary fatty acid composition of free-living individuals.
Effects of aphidicolin on repair replication and induced chromosomal aberrations in mammalian cells.	The influence of aphidicolin, an inhibitor of polymerase alpha, on UV-induced repair replication in human skin fibroblasts, as well as in HeLa cells, was determined. In growing fibroblasts and in HeLa cells, aphidicolin had a potentiating effect on UV-induced repair replication, whereas in fibroblasts grown to confluency, aphidicolin had an inhibitory effect. This inhibitory effect was stronger when measured in the presence of hydroxyurea. In HeLa cells the presence of both aphidicolin and hydroxyurea also had an inhibitory effect, but in the presence of hydroxyurea alone, UV-induced repair replication was enhanced. The results of these studies can be explained on the basis of differences in deoxyribonucleotide triphosphate pool sizes in growing and confluent cells. Post-treatment of X-irradiated human lymphocytes in the G0 and G1 stages with aphidicolin increased the frequencies of X-ray-induced chromosomal aberrations. Such an increase was not observed in G1 cells of CHO after similar treatment with X-rays and aphidicolin. However, treatment with aphidicolin, in the G2 stage, of CHO cells that had been exposed to UV or alkylating agents in the G1 stage increased the frequencies of induced chromatid breaks. The significance of these results is discussed.
Repair of lower leg injuries with fascio-cutaneous flaps.	Experience with sixteen consecutive cases of lower leg skin loss has confirmed the reliability of Pontn's fascio-cutaneous or "super flap" (1981) in the management of these difficult injuries. The technique has several important advantages compared with the conventional lower leg flaps of both the ipsi-lateral and cross-leg variety.
Effect of insulin on folic-acid transport in cultured fibroblasts.	Uptake of folic acid was measured in secondary cultures of skin fibroblasts from fetal rats. The cultures were made quiescent by 24 hours preincubation in medium containing 1% serum and subsequent 3 hours preincubation in phosphate buffered saline. The uptake of 3H-folic acid was linear with time during 15 seconds and reached a plateau level at 2-3 minutes. There was no further increase in the intracellular radioactivity until the end of the experiments at 10 minutes. The uptake of folic acid in fibroblasts was not concentrative and proceeded until equilibration with the extracellular concentration. Intracellular metabolic conversion of folic acid was not significant during the time of experiments (up to 10 minutes). Insulin caused a two-fold increase in the initial rate of folate uptake as determined from the 15 second uptake values. The dose response curves for the insulin effect showed that 85% of the maximal effect was exerted by 1 microM insulin. A lag period of 7-10 minutes was observed after the addition of insulin and before the effect on folic acid uptake was manifested. Thereafter the effect increased with the time of preincubation with insulin. The concentration dependence of folate uptake yielded non homogeneous curves. At low concentrations of substrate, saturable components were observed while at high concentrations (above 5 X 10(-6) M) a linear component was observed. Insulin increased the slope of the linear component and the Vmax of the saturable component while the Km remained unaltered.
The relationship of fibroblast translocations to cell morphology and stress fibre density.	Translocation of human fibroblasts in culture was studied using techniques of time-lapse cinemicrography, indirect immunofluorescence, and computer analysis. An inverse relationship between the velocity of cells during the last hour of life and the density of stress fibers seen by immune staining was demonstrated. Translocating cells generally assumed one of two interconvertible morphologies: a triangular tailed shape or tailed fibroblast (TF), and a tailless form that resembled a half-moon, which we call a half-moon fibroblast (HMF). The tail of TFs formed only on regions of substrate that had been previously traversed by cells. The half-moon morphology developed either on previously used or on virgin substrate. Cells adopted the HMF rather than the TF morphology with a four-fold greater frequency. HMFs translocated slightly faster than TFs. The foregoing observation suggest that the fibroblast tail is not an organelle essential for translocation. Since our technique allowed us to distinguish between cells which were cycling and those which had left cycle, we compared their velocities and found them to be similar. Also the average velocities of cells of different population-doubling levels (10th, 30th, 40th) were approximately equal.
Protection of the skin]	The toxic or allergic contact dermatitis is the most frequent occupational disease of the skin. It is caused by repeated contact with irritant or sensitizing occupational substances. The aim of the skin protection is to prevent or at least to lessen the contact with these injuring substances. Protective gloves as well as skin protective unguents are of use for preventive skin protection. We differentiate two types of emulsions among the skin protective unguents: O/W-emulsions protect against injuring components, insoluble in water, and W/O-emulsions protect against injuring stuffs, soluble in water. The cleaning agents of the skin have to be chosen according to the degree and kind of the contamination; today surfactants such as soap and detergents are chiefly used. THe preserving skin protection is very important: with the regenerating care of the skin the water and fatty constituents of the injured skin are repaired.
Isolation and purification of collagen alpha 1(I) receptor from human platelet membrane.	We have previously demonstrated that chick-skin type I collagen and the alpha 1(I) chain mediate platelet aggregation. Aggregation was associated with specific binding of these substances by platelet membranes. We now describe the isolation and purification of the receptor from isolated human platelet membrane. The receptor can be solubilized from platelet membranes with 0.5% Triton or 0.5% sodium deoxycholate. Using the combination of gel filtration, affinity column chromatography on alpha 1-Sepharose 4B, and preparative slab gel electrophoreses, the receptor protein can be purified to a single band as judged on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Its activity sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Its activity was destroyed by incubation with trypsin or Pronase. The apparent molecular weight was estimated to be 65,000 by using sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Bound [14C]glycine-labeled alpha 1(I) is displaced by unlabeled alpha 1 chain. The binding of [14C]glycine-labeled alpha 1(I) by the purified alpha 1(I) receptor can also be inhibited by the receptor isolated from type I fibrillar collage-Sepharose affinity chromatography. The data suggest that the alpha 1(I) binding site is identical with the type I fibrillar collagen binding site.
The effect of oxidation of copoly (L-alanine, L-methionine) membranes on oxygen permeability and tensile properties.	This study pertains to the development of poly (alpha-amino acid) membranes which have potential as biomaterials. Copoly (L-alanine, L-methionine) membranes have been subjected to oxidation which produced a hydrophilic structure allowing the improvement of oxygen permeability. L-Methionine residues in the copolymers were converted to methionine sulfoxide and/or sulfone groups by action of hydrogen peroxide in various reaction compositions. Water absorption, permeability to oxygen dissolved in water, and tensile strength of the modified membranes were changed with the extent of oxidation. The water absorption was found to increase with oxidation time from 10 to 300%. The oxidation time dependency on the oxygen permeability coincided with the increase in the water absorption. The permeability coefficients of oxidized membranes were of the order of 10(-9) cm3 (STP) cm/cm2 s cm Hg, while those of unoxidized membranes were approximately 10(-11). As expected, the tensile strengths of oxidized membranes were smaller than those of unoxidized ones. In addition, the effect of L-alanine and L-methionine residue composition on the membrane properties is discussed.
Effect of malonaldehyde and acetaldehyde on cultured mammalian cells. Production of micronuclei and chromosomal aberrations.	The genotoxic effects of malonaldehyde (MA) and acetaldehyde (AA) were investigated using primary cultures of rat skin fibroblasts. Exposure to MA at 10(-4) to 10(-3) M concentrations resulted in dose-dependent production of micronuclei. MA was approx. 10 times as potent as AA with respect to micronuclei formation. Treatment with 10(-4) and 10(-3) M concentrations of MA for 12 h produced chromosomal aberrations (chromosomal fragments, achromatic lesions and chromatid breaks) in 14 and 34% of metaphases, respectively. At 24 h the corresponding frequencies were 46 and 52%. AA at analogous concentrations produced aberrations in 4 and 14% of metaphases at 12 h, and 20 and 40% at 24 h. Dose-dependent increases in aneuploidy were seen at 10(-4) M and higher concentrations of both aldehydes, with incidences twice as high for MA as for AA.
A comparison of the cytogenetic response to asbestos and glass fibre in Chinese hamster and human cell lines. Demonstration of growth inhibition in primary human fibroblasts.	Asbestos and fine glass fibre, which induce high levels of chromosome aberrations and polyploidy in Chinese hamster permanent cell lines, were found to cause no increase in chromosome damage or polyploidy in primary human fibroblasts or in human lymphoblastoid lines. In common with permanent cell lines of hamster or human origin, treatment of primary human fibroblasts with higher doses of asbestos or fine glass resulted in almost total growth inhibition, showing that the primary cells are not unaffected by these agents. The reason for lack of evident cytogenetic damage in primary cells may lie in the greater spontaneous karyotype instability of transformed (permanent) cell lines or may be connected with the less efficient DNA repair capacity of Chinese hamster ovary cells.
12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) induces sister-chromatid exchanges and delays in cell progression in Chinese hamster ovary and human cell lines.	The tumor promoter 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) induced a 20-45% increase in sister-chromatid exchange (SCE) frequency in Chinese hamster ovary cells (CHO) and in 2 SV40-transformed human fibroblast cell lines (GM637 and XP12RO) at concentrations up to 1 microgram/ml. The increase was independent of the time at which the cells were fixed after treatment and was not due to an impurity in the TPA preparation or to increased incorporation of bromodeoxyuridine into the DNA. There was no synergistic effect on SCE induction when CHO cells were simultaneously exposed to TPA and the carcinogens mitomycin C or ultraviolet light, but there was when TPA and benzo[a]pyrene were used. In addition to its weak SCE-inducing effects in CHO cells, TPA caused slight delays in cell cycle progression and greatly enhanced the cell cycle delay induced by benzo[a]pyrene.
Assessment of two noninvasive monitors of arterial oxygenation in anesthetized man.	The Hewlett-Packard 47201A ear oximeter and the Radiometer TCM1 transcutaneous oxygen monitor were evaluated for use as noninvasive monitors of arterial oxygenation during inhalational anesthesia in man. Thirty-four healthy adult volunteers were anesthetized to steady states with halothane, enflurane, or isoflurane, and were studied either before or during surgery. Oxygen levels were varied over ranges that included hypoxemia, by manipulating FIO2. Oximeter estimates of SaO2 values and transcutaneous estimates of PaO2 values were compared with conventional measurements of each. Oximeter readings responded rapidly to changes of inspired oxygen concentration and were acceptably accurate estimates of SaO2, except at lower SaO2 levels (less than 80%) during anesthesia without surgery. Transcutaneous oxygen tension readings responded relatively slowly to changes of FIO2 and were frequently inaccurate reflections of PaO2 values. We consider this oximeter suitable as a monitor of arterial oxygenation during anesthesia, but find the transcutaneous electrode unsatisfactory.
Efficiency of medium utilization by human diploid fibroblasts in culture.	Growth of two human diploid cell strains were studied in relation to medium formulation, supplementation and inoculum size. MRC-5 cells were found to give greatly improved yields in Dulbecco Modified Eagle's medium, while a foreskin strain, HFS-30, showed only a slight effect. Supplementation of nutrient by the addition of fresh medium after two days incubation and the use of small inocula, gave enhanced yields and medium utilisation in both cell types.
Cytochemical studies of metaphase chromosomes by flow cytometry.	The cytochemical properties of metaphase chromosomes from Chinese hamster and human cells were studied by flow cytometry. This technique allows precise quantitation of the fluorescence properties of individual stained chromosome types. Chromosomes were stained with the following fluorescent DNA stains: Hoechst 33258, DAPI, chromomycin A3, ethidium bromide, and propidium iodide. The relative fluorescence of individual chromosome types varied depending on the stain used, demonstrating that individual chromosome types differ in chemical properties. Flow measurements were performed as a function of stain and chromosome concentration to characterize the number and distribution of stain binding sites. Flow analysis of double stained chromosomes show that bound stains interact by energy transfer with little or no binding competition. For most hamster chromosomes, there is a strong correlation between relative fluorescence and stain base preference suggesting that staining differences may be determined primarily by differences in average base composition. A few hamster chromosome types exhibit anomalous staining which suggests that some other property, such as repetitive DNA sequences, also may be an important determinant of chromosomal staining.
Regulation of microtubule assembly in cultured fibroblasts.	Microtubule assembly in diploid human skin fibroblasts was studied by [3H]colchicine binding to disaggregated microtubule subunits and to total cell tubulin. Microtubule content per milligram of cell protein was critically dependent upon cell density. As cultures neared confluence, microtubules increased and total cell tubulin decreased; the percent of tubulin assembled into microtubules increased from 5.3 in spare cultures to 58.3 in confluent cultures. Microtubules disappeared with a half-time of 2 min in response to 0 degree C incubation and reformed upon rewarming. Brief treatment of intact cells with concanavalin A or cytochalasin A depolymerized microtubules to 55 or 56% of control levels. The effect of concanavalin A was prevented by alpha-methylmannoside. Fibroblast microtubule assembly was not significantly altered by cyclic nucleotides, ascorbate, glucose, insulin, medium calcium concentration, or calcium ionophore A23187.
Skin decontamination of commonly used medical radionuclides.	The increasing use of radionuclides in medical diagnosis raises the possibility of accidental spills and skin contamination. This study was performed to evaluate the effectiveness of several decontaminating agents. Most nuclides were easily removed to levels of less than 5% of their original activity. Sodium pertechnetate (Tc-99m) was the most difficult compound to remove. Little difference was found between the effectiveness of tap water, soap and water, and two commercially available decontaminating agents.
Comparison of gentamicin with other antibacterials and variation of incubation temperature on growth of trichophyton mentagrophytes from skin scales.	Neutral (Emmons modification) Sabouraud medium, Dermatophyte Test Medium and Littman oxgall agar, with substitutions in type of antibacterial antibiotic, were quantitatively evaluated by colony counts for ability to support growth when suspensions of trypsintreated guinea pig skin scales, infected with Trichophyton mentagrophytes, were used as inocula. Both liquid and powder form of gentamicin sulfate were used separately in place of other routinely used antibacterial antibiotics. Also evaluated were three isolation temperatures. No differences in ability to support growth were noted among media. No difference was noted between the two forms of gentamicin. No data were available on the antibacterial activities of the antibiotics because no bacterial growth was produced on any of the media. Room temperature (24 degrees-26 degrees C), 30 degrees C and 37 degrees C were found to support growth similarly as primary isolation temperatures for this fungus.
Destruction of residual varicose collaterals by subcutaneous dilaceration with a needle]	The persistence of collaterals after a properly conducted surgical treatment of varicose veins of the lower limbs often presents a problem which is difficult to resolve. The authors put forward a simple and original method, in which a long and slightly curved triangular needle is used, without incisions, to destroy by dilaceration the collaterals whatever their degree of dilatation and their location. This technique has also been used as a first stage preceding stripping, and over a 5 year period has given results in 70 patients which are very satisfactory both from the point of view of efficacy as well as from the aesthetic point of view.
Ultrasound propagation in 'in vivo' bone.	Piezoelectricity in in vivo bone has been demonstrated by exciting the bone with a coupled transducer made of modified lead zirconate titanate material (PCB-6) and the electrical signal in the excited bone is detected with the help of implanted stainless stell electrodes of 1.00 mm diameter. Also, acoustical parameters such as the ultrasound velocity and attenuation constant in in vivo bone are obtained. A possible mechanism of ultrasound interaction with the biological system in question is discussed, taking into account the theoretically calculated reflected power from each interface of intervening biological medium.
Beef tallow diet decreases beta-adrenergic receptor binding and lipolytic activities in different adipose tissues of rat.	The effects of dietary fats consisting of different fatty acids on lipolytic activity and body fat accumulation were studied in rats. Sprague-Dawley male rats were meal-fed an isoenergetic diet based on either beef tallow or safflower oil for 8 weeks. Lipolytic activities in epididymal and subcutaneous adipose tissues were lower in the beef tallow diet group than in the safflower oil diet group. Body fat accumulation was greater in rats fed the beef tallow diet versus the safflower oil diet. Norepinephrine (NE) turnover rates used as an index of sympathetic activities in adipose tissues were lower in the beef tallow diet group. beta-Adrenergic receptor binding was determined with [3H]dihydroalprenolol. Binding affinities of beta-receptors in adipose tissues were significantly lower in the beef tallow diet group. Membrane fluidities of adipose tissues were also lower in the beef tallow diet group. Membrane fluidities were correlated with the affinities of the beta-receptor. We believe from these correlations that the decreases in beta-receptor binding affinities are due to the changes in membrane fluidities. The results of the present study suggest that intake of the beef tallow diet promotes body fat accumulation by reducing lipolytic activities resulting from lower beta-receptor binding and sympathetic activity in adipose tissues.
Distance from the skin to the cervical epidural space.	Cervical epidural blockade provides effective regional analgesia in clinical anesthesia and pain clinics. However, the risk for performing cervical epidural block is higher than lumber epidural anesthesia. We studied the distance from the skin to the cervical epidural space to determine whether there is any relationship between patient age, height, body weight, body mass index (BMI) and the distance from the skin to the epidural space.
The phenotype in vitro and in infected cells of herpes simplex virus 1 alpha trans-inducing factor (VP16) carrying temperature-sensitive mutations introduced by substitution of cysteines.	alpha trans-inducing factor (alpha TIF, VP16, Vmw65) is an essential structural protein of herpes simplex virus, being required for virion assembly. The protein also forms complexes with host proteins and a response element and transactivates the alpha genes which carry this element. The protein contains an acidic carboxyl terminus required for transactivation and a much larger amino-terminal domain required for promoter recognition. We report the first set of temperature-sensitive (ts) mutations deliberately introduced into the protein by substitution of the cysteine codons with those specifying glycine at positions 78, 102, and 176, either singly or in combinations. We report the following results. (i) All mutated proteins synthesized in vitro formed complexes with the DNA response element at room temperature. However, the mutant with the triple substitution and two mutants with substitutions in two of the three cysteines exhibited a ts phenotype at 33 and 37 degrees C, and one exhibited a ts phenotype only at 37 degrees C. (ii) Replacement of wild-type alpha TIF with genes carrying substitutions in any two cysteines conferred a ts phenotype for replication at 39.5 degrees C. Shift-down experiments indicated that the 10(4)- to 10(5)-fold reduction in virus yield at the nonpermissive temperature was due to the disfunction of alpha TIF late in infection, presumably in virion maturation. (iii) The alpha TIF expressed in cells infected with mutant viruses exhibited the same ts phenotype in protein-DNA complex formation as those expressed in vitro from mutated plasmids. Although the virus carrying the alpha TIF substitutions at Cys-102 and Cys-176 failed to induce a reporter gene linked to the alpha 4 promoter at 39.5 degrees C, it replicated as well as the parent virus in cells maintained for the first 10 h of infection at 39.5 degrees C. We conclude the following. (i) Formation of DNA-protein complexes containing alpha TIF is a poor prognosticator of alpha TIF function. (ii) The data presented here and in the literature strongly support the hypothesis that the secondary structure of the alpha TIF is very sensitive to deletions or insertions which probably affect the interaction of alpha TIF with both viral proteins in the virion and cellular proteins during infection. As a consequence, deletion-insertion mutagenesis may not shed useful information on the role of transactivating function of alpha TIF in infection. (iii) Since cysteines may play a role in stabilizing the secondary structure of proteins, substitutions of cysteines may be a powerful technique for site-specific construction of ts mutants in essential viral proteins.
Evaluation of sister chromatid exchanges in Bloom's syndrome.	The pattern of sister chromatid labelling and incidence of sister chromatid exchanges (SCE), including the effects of caffeine on SCE, were examined with several techniques in normal human cells and in those of a patient with Bloom's syndrome following 1--3 mitotic cycles. The results indicate, in confirmation of those obtained by others with different cells, that SCE in the cells studied is not due to a post-replication repair process, but more likely involves exchanges between the double strands of chromatids.
Usefulness of the AMeX method for immunostaining with antikeratin antibodies.	We performed an immunohistochemical study with 11 antikeratin antibodies using the newly developed AMeX (acetone-methylbenzoate-xylene) tissue processing method. Specimens processed with this method showed almost as good preservation and morphological detail as routinely processed, formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded tissue specimens, and as good preservation of antigenicity as fresh frozen tissue specimens. Thus, we propose the wide use of this method in dermatology.
Clinical use of carbon-loaded thermoluminescent dosimeters for skin dose determination.	Carbon-loaded thermoluminescent dosimeters (TLDs) are designed for surface/skin dose measurements. Following 4 years in clinical use at the Mater Hospital, the accuracy and clinical usefulness of the carbon-loaded TLDs was assessed.
Delayed cyclin A and B1 degradation in non-transformed mammalian cells.	Cyclins A and B are known to exhibit significant differences in their function, cellular distribution and timing of degradation at mitosis. On the basis of observations in marine invertebrates and Xenopus, it was proposed that cyclin destruction triggers cdc2 kinase inactivation and anaphase onset. However, this model has recently been questioned, both in Xenopus and in budding yeast. In this report, we present evidence for delayed degradation of both cyclins A and B1 in non-transformed mammalian cells. Indeed, by means of indirect immunofluorescence and confocal microscopy, we show that cyclins A and B1 are present up to anaphase in REF52, Hs68, human primary fibroblasts and NRK epithelial cells. In marked contrast, cyclin A is shown to be degraded within metaphase and cyclin B just at the transition to anaphase in HeLa and two transformed cell lines, derivatives of normal NRK and REF52. These results further support the notion that cyclin destruction might be not correlated with anaphase onset in normal cells and highlight a significant difference in the fate of mitotic cyclins between transformed and non-transformed cells.
Skin cancer prevention: a link between primary prevention and early detection?	The aim of this paper was to determine if there is any link between primary prevention and early detection for skin cancer. Results from a study of a large random sample of Gold Coast residents (N = 995) identified an association (P < 0.01) between individual primary prevention and early detection activities. People were also more likely to use both prevention methods if they had personal experience with skin cancer (P = 0.01) or if they were male (P = 0.05). Future primary prevention and early detection skin cancer programs might be most effective if they are combined.
Enhancing the early detection of melanoma within current guidelines.	Queensland has the highest reported incidence of malignant melanoma in the world, and early detection offers the possibility of reducing the burden of this cancer in the short term. We report on a survey of 995 residents of the Gold Coast, Queensland, regarding behavioural aspects of the early detection of skin cancer. Survey results suggest that although many people report some form of skin examination behaviour, by either checking their own skin, having another nonmedical person check their skin, or by going to their general practitioner for a skin check, much of this activity may be inadequate. They indicate that current early detection could be enhanced by encouraging individuals and general practitioners to extend the coverage of the examinations they already conduct.
Bioprosthetic cardiac valve degeneration: role of inflammatory and immune reactions.	Inflammatory and immune reactions are thought to mediate both calcification and biodegradation of bioprosthetic cardiac valve implants. To investigate the mechanisms of implant degeneration, we evaluated the role of inflammatory and immune reactions and the effects of tissue preservative treatment in three series of experiments. In the first experiment, three kinds of implants, i.e. glutaraldehyde-treated autograft Sprague-Dawley (SD) rat skin, xenograft Swiss-Webster (SW) mouse skin, and saline-treated autograft (control) were subcutaneously implanted in ten weanling SD rats, and retrieved after 70 days. There was no significant difference in the level of calcification in the autograft (113.13 +/- 27.09 micrograms/mg dry weight) and xenograft (78.27 +/- 31.53 micrograms/mg dry weight) (p > 0.05), but both differed significantly from the control specimens (1.55 +/- 0.87 micrograms/mg dry weight). In the second experiment, the immunological response to glutaraldehyde-treated bovine pericardium (glut tBP) and glycerol treated bovine pericardium (glyc tBP) implants were tested in vivo and in vitro. A Gore-Tex implant was used as a control. Sections of these materials were implanted to the abdominal muscle wall of Lewis rats, with each group composed of twelve animals. Lymphocytes and sera from the animals were isolated, and histological examination was performed at two or four weeks post-implantation. Collagen type 1 (calf skin) was used as antigen. Tritiated thymidine incorporation was used to measure lymphocyte response to antigen collagen type 1 (calf skin), and an Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) was used to test antibodies. The results showed that lymphocytes from both the glut tBP and the glyc tBP groups responded to collagen type 1. The ELISA results showed that the glyc tBP group produced more antibodies than did the glut tBP group, with the difference being significant at a level of p < 0.02. Histology revealed that the glyc tBP had greater inflammatory changes and collagen degeneration than did the glut tBP. In the third experiment, sections of glut tBP and glyc tBP were implanted subcutaneously in two groups of ten weanling SD rats, and retrieved after 70 days. The results showed that glut tBP caused more calcification (197.04 +/- 83.56 micrograms/mg dry weight) than did the glyc tBP (6.74 +/- 0.55 microgram/mg dry weight), with the difference being significant at a level of p < 0.05. From these investigations it is concluded that tissue treatment prior to implantation was very important in determining the tendency of tissue to calcify, and that there was no obvious relationship between bioprosthetic calcification and immunogenicity.
Periodic fluctuations in proliferation of SV-40 transformed human skin fibroblast lines with prolonged lifespan.	A human fibroblastic cell line transformed by the SV40-T antigen sequence and continuously cultured for 7 months displayed large periodic variations in cell proliferation. This contrasted with other characteristics of this cell line that remained constant: mosaic cell shape, absence of cell contact inhibition, and predominance of a hypodiploid population. Similar fluctuations in proliferative capacity were also found during the long-term growth of a transformed but nonimmortalized human fibroblastic line prior to senescence, and in the established hamster fibroblastic Nil cell line. This growth pattern suggests a recurrent stimulation of growth in these three transformed cell lines. The proliferation pattern from cultured transformed cells may thus be complex and requires further investigation. These variations presumably influence major cell functions. This observation has important implications for the analysis of data from such cell lines.
Continuous percutaneous cyst drainage for multicystic kidney.	We report a patient with a multicystic kidney treated successfully by continuous percutaneous drainage. This method may be an alternative to surgical resection of a multicystic kidney that has not involved after one year of follow-up.
Passive ventricular mechanics in tight-skin mice.	Although changes in the extracellular matrix have been associated with changes in ventricular compliance in certain diseased states, this relationship has not been entirely established. Accordingly, we studied passive ventricular mechanics in the tight-skin (TSk) mouse, a mutant strain known to have increased cardiac collagen. In the arrested left ventricle, we determined the pressure-volume relationship and the stress-free state, as defined by the "opening angle" of an equatorial ring with a radial cut. The results showed the mean opening angle in the TSk mouse to be smaller than that in phenotypic negative controls (7 +/- 6 vs. 21 +/- 9 degrees), and there was no statistical difference in the pressure-volume curves. Histological quantification of the transmural collagen showed a uniform increase of collagen area fraction across the wall in TSk mouse, and a significantly thicker superficial epicardial collagen layer (4.68 +/- 0.87 vs. 3.34 +/- 0.76 micron). Thus, although there appears to be a decrease of residual stress in the TSk mouse heart, which may be related to the thicker epicardial collagen layer, the combination of increased myocardial collagen and the change in stress-free state did not seem to affect the passive pressure-volume relationship of the left ventricle.
Adipose tissue metabolism in humans determined by vein catheterization and microdialysis techniques.	A technique for catheterization of a vein draining abdominal subcutaneous tissue and a microdialysis technique that allows measurements of intercellular water concentrations in adipose tissue in humans have recently been described. In the present study, we compare the two techniques during an oral glucose load. In addition a technique using microdialysis for measurement of tissue oxygen and carbon dioxide tensions is described. Microdialysis and vein catheterization were performed in the same region on the abdomen, and the subcutaneous adipose tissue blood flow was measured by the local 133Xe washout method. The results show that subcutaneous adipose tissue gas tensions are on level with gas tensions measured in abdominal venous blood. Comparison of metabolite concentrations measured in the venous blood and venous blood concentrations calculated from microdialysis data shows that there is good agreement between the concentrations obtained by the two techniques with respect to glucose and glycerol, whereas lactate concentrations are very different. With regard to substrate fluxes calculated by Fick's principle, the catheterization technique is probably the most reliable, considering the numerous assumptions on which calculations of venous concentrations from microdialysis data are based. Advantages and disadvantages of the two techniques are discussed.
Influence of ovarian status and regional fat distribution on protein kinase C in rat fat cells.	The effects of ovarian status on insulin- and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (TPA)-stimulated lipogenic responses, phorbol ester-specific binding to protein kinase C (PKC) and immunoblot-quantified beta- and epsilon-PKC isoform levels were compared in female rat fat cells from subcutaneous and deep intra-abdominal (parametrial) fat deposits. In control rats, the cytosolic PKC content per cell was 70% lower in subcutaneous than in parametrial adipocytes. In subcutaneous and parametrial fat cells, the cytosolic PKC contents were reduced by ovariectomy and restored to normal by the administration of ovarian hormones (oestradiol plus progesterone). However, the lipogenic response to TPA was unaltered by ovarian status in both fat deposits, contrasting with the insulin-stimulated lipogenic response. This response increased in parametrial fat cells after ovariectomy and returned to normal after ovarian hormone treatment whereas, in subcutaneous fat cells, the insulin response was either unaltered by ovariectomy or increased by the administration of ovarian hormones. This study shows important site-related differences in fat cell PKC content but also reveals a similar modulation of this PKC by ovarian status, regardless of the anatomical localization of the fat cells. The physiological significance of these findings is discussed.
Effect of insulated skin probes to increase skin-to-environmental temperature gradients of preterm infants cared for in convective incubators.	Thermal support systems for premature infants that are based on skin servocontrol depend on accurate measurement of skin surface temperature. We examined prospectively the effect of probe insulation to alter measured skin temperature in 10 preterm infants. The use of insulated probes resulted in significant alteration in incubator servocontrol, with lower incubator air temperatures and higher skin-to-environment temperature gradients.
A comparison of intravenous and subcutaneous hydration in elderly acute stroke patients.	The aim of this study was to compare the effectiveness of subcutaneous and intravenous fluid therapy in hydrating, elderly acute stroke patients. Thirty-four such patients, needing parenteral fluids because of impaired consciousness or dysphagia, were randomly allocated to receive either subcutaneous or intravenous fluids (2 litres of dextrose-saline/24 hours). Serum osmolality was measured before starting fluid therapy (Day 1) and on Days 2 and 3. An analysis of covariance of the osmolalities showed no statistical difference between the two groups (P = 0.12). The total cost of cannulae used over the 3 days for the subcutaneous route was approximately a third of that for the intravenous route. Complication rates were similar for the two groups. The results suggest that subcutaneous fluid therapy is an effective alternative to the intravenous route.
Immunoreactive growth hormone receptor/binding protein is present on fibroblasts and in serum of Laron-type dwarfs.	Laron-type dwarfism is an autosomal recessive disorder characterised by extreme growth retardation and growth hormone (GH) resistance and has been shown in some cases to be associated with mutations in the GH receptor gene. Limited data suggest that in this condition specific liver GH binding is absent. In the majority of reported cases specific GH binding is also absent in serum. However it is not known whether the GH receptor and/or the serum GH binding protein are expressed in this condition. Using the techniques of immunohistochemistry and Northern blotting we have demonstrated that in cultured skin fibroblasts derived from four patients with Laron-type dwarfism the GH receptor gene is transcribed and the GH receptor protein is expressed on the cell surface. Further study of one of these patients, who has not previously been reported, has also revealed low but detectable levels of GH binding protein in serum using a two-site immunradiometric assay which does not depend on GH binding. These results indicate that the growth hormone receptor/binding protein is expressed in Laron-type dwarfism.
Microtubule-dependent control of cell shape and pseudopodial activity is inhibited by the antibody to kinesin motor domain.	One of the major functions of cytoplasmic microtubules is their involvement in maintenance of asymmetric cell shape. Microtubules were considered to perform this function working as rigid structural elements. At the same time, microtubules play a critical role in intracellular organelle transport, and this fact raises the possibility that the involvement of microtubules in maintenance of cell shape may be mediated by directed transport of certain cellular components to a limited area of the cell surface (e.g., to the leading edge) rather than by their functioning as a mechanical support. To test this hypothesis we microinjected cultured human fibroblasts with the antibody (called HD antibody) raised against kinesin motor domain highly conserved among the different members of kinesin superfamily. As was shown before this antibody inhibits kinesin-dependent microtubule gliding in vitro and interferes with a number of microtubule-dependent transport processes in living cells. Preimmune IgG fraction was used for control experiments. Injections of fibroblasts with HD antibody but not with preimmune IgG significantly reduced their asymmetry, resulting in loss of long processes and elongated cell shape. In addition, antibody injection suppressed pseudopodial activity at the leading edge of fibroblasts moving into an experimentally made wound. Analysis of membrane organelle distribution showed that kinesin antibody induced clustering of mitochondria in perinuclear region and their withdrawal from peripheral parts of the cytoplasm. HD antibody does not affect either density or distribution of cytoplasmic microtubules. The results of our experiments show that many changes of phenotype induced in cells by microtubule-depolymerizing agents can be mimicked by the inhibition of motor proteins, and therefore microtubule functions in maintaining of the cell shape and polarity are mediated by motor proteins rather than by being provided by rigidity of tubulin polymer itself.
Solar protection behaviours: a study of beachgoers.	This study explored the prevalence and predictors of solar protection behaviour in a community sample of beachgoers. A total of 670 participants was randomly selected from six beaches in the Newcastle district. The solar protection behaviour of each participant was assessed by direct observation and interview. A subsample was also asked to complete a written questionnaire to assess attitudes to solar protection use, knowledge of skin cancer and awareness of recommended solar protection behaviours. Forty-five per cent of the beachgoers in this sample were using a high level of solar protection, and a substantial proportion (16 per cent) of the sample was not using any kind of solar protection. Sunscreen with SPF 15+ was applied to at least one body region by 69 per cent of the sample, 17 per cent of the sample were wearing a recommended hat, 15.1 per cent were using shade, and 3.4 per cent were wearing a recommended style of shirt at the time of observation. Chi-square analyses of the data for under-15-year-olds indicated that a significantly greater proportion of 0- to 9-year-olds were well protected compared to 11- to 14-year-olds, but there was no difference in use of protection by boys and girls under 15 years of age. Stepwise regression analysis of the adult sample (15 years and over) showed that the predictors of overall level of solar protection were marital status and frequency of skin self-examination in the past 12 months. The practical implications of these findings for future community-based skin cancer prevention programs are discussed.
Inhibition of wound contraction by topical antimicrobials.	Spontaneous wound healing occurs partly by wound contraction, a process that requires intact functioning fibroblasts, and collagen production. Disruption of fibroblasts by the topical antimicrobials, silver sulfadiazine and mafenide acetate has been demonstrated in vitro. An acute rat wound model was used to show that wound contraction in vivo is significantly impeded by silver sulfadiazine and mafenide acetate.
Subfibrillar structure of type I collagen observed by atomic force microscopy.	We have imaged native rat tail and reconstituted bovine dermal type I collagen by atomic force microscopy, obtaining a level of detail comparable to that obtained on the same samples by transmission electron microscopy. The characteristic 60-70 nm D periodicity consists of ridges exhibiting high tip-sample adhesion alternating with 5-15-nm-deep grooves having low adhesion. We also observe an intraperiod or "minor" band consisting of 1-nm-deep grooves, and "microfibrils" arranged parallel to or inclined approximately 5 degrees to the fibril axis. In air collagen fibrils exhibit negligible compression under the forces exerted by the tip. When immersed in water the subfibrillar features disappear and the fibrils become softer, compressing by 5% of their height under an 11-nN force. Material on the surface of the sample sometimes accumulates on the atomic force microscope tip; contrary to expectation such tip contamination can improve as well as reduce resolution.
In vivo structure of the human cdc2 promoter: release of a p130-E2F-4 complex from sequences immediately upstream of the transcription initiation site coincides with induction of cdc2 expression.	In quiescent cells, cdc2 mRNA is almost undetectable. Stimulation of cells to reenter the cell cycle results in induction of cdc2 expression, beginning at the G1-to-S transition and reaching maximum levels during late S and G2 phases. To investigate cdc2 transcriptional regulation throughout cell cycle progression, we monitored protein-DNA interactions by in vivo footprinting along 800 bp of the human cdc2 promoter in quiescent fibroblasts and at different time points following serum stimulation. We found 11 in vivo protein-binding sites, but no protein binding was observed at a high-affinity E2F site that had previously been implicated in cdc2 regulation. Nine of the identified in vivo binding sites (among them were two inverted CCAAT boxes, two Sp1 sites, and one ets-2 site) bind transcription factors constitutively throughout the cell cycle. However, at two elements located at positions -60 and -20 relative to the transcription start site, the binding pattern changes significantly as the cells are entering S phase. A G0- and G1-specific protein complex disappears at the -20 element at the beginning of S phase. This sequence deviates at one base position from known E2F consensus binding sites. We found that the major E2F activity in human fibroblasts contains E2F-4 and p130. The -20 element of the cdc2 gene specifically interacts with a subset of E2F-4-p130 complexes present in G0 cells but does not interact with S-phase-specific E2F complexes. Transient-transfection experiments with wild-type and mutant cdc2 promoter constructs indicate that the -20 element is involved in suppressing cdc2 activity in quiescent cells. We suggest that the presence of the p130-E2F-4 complex in G0/G1 blocks access of components of the basal transcription machinery or prevents transaction by the constitutively bound upstream activator proteins.
Long-term ketamine subcutaneous continuous infusion in neuropathic cancer pain.	Neuropathic cancer pain may be less responsive to opioids than other pain. Several studies suggest that N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-receptor antagonists could play a role in the treatment of neuropathic pain. Ketamine is an NMDA-receptor antagonist that is used as an anesthetic and has been suggested as a useful drug for neuropathic pain. Subanesthetic doses of ketamine can yield analgesia without hypnosis. We describe a patient who developed neuropathic cancer pain unresponsive to opioid escalation and spinal administration of a combination of bupivacaine-morphine and was subsequently treated by subcutaneous continuous ketamine infusion. A starting dose of 150 mg/day provided good pain relief and a dramatic reduction of the oral morphine dose (from 5 g to 200 mg). A slow and progressive increase of ketamine and morphine dosage (400 mg and 200 mg by the subcutaneous route, respectively) continued to provide adequate pain relief after 13 months of therapy despite signs of progressive disease.
Connective tissue synthesis by cultured scleroderma fibroblasts. II. Incorporation of 3h-glucosamine and synthesis of glycosaminoglycans.	Fibroblasts from normal and scleroderma skin, grown tissue culture, were incubated with 3H-glucosamine for 24 hours. No definite trends could be established in 3H-glucosamin incorporation or glycosaminoglycan synthesis. Over 90% of the total 3H activity as well as the glycosaminoglycans synthesized were secreted into the medium. Characterization of glycosaminoglycans showed that in both the medium and cells, hyaluronic acid ins the major glycosaminoglycan in normal and scleroderma fibroblasts. In the medium, hyaluronic acid represented 87% of the total glycosaminoglycans; it was slightly decreased in the cells. Fibroblasts were compared from the upper and lower areas of the affected dermis and an uninvolved dermal area of the same scleroderma patients.
Recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein-2 induces a hematopoietic microenvironment in the rat that supports the growth of stem cells.	In the mammalian bone marrow, stromal components support the growth and differentiation of blood cells. To study this complex system, we used a rat model in which ectopic hematopoietic tissue was induced to form after subcutaneous implantation of recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein (rhBMP-2). We showed that this organoid contained clonogenic precursors of both erythroid and myeloid lineages and progenitors competent to regenerate splenic lymphopoiesis. Furthermore, stem cells derived from ectopic foci conferred both short-term (30 day) and long-term (>6-month) protection in vivo against radiation-induced marrow aplasia. Lead shielding of the ectopic marrow in situ also permitted endogenous recovery of hematopoiesis after sublethal irradiation. Extending previous observations that most fibroblastoid cells of the marrow stain with the anti-ST3 antibody (but minimally with anti-ST4), whereas those growing from nonhematopoietic tissues react with anti-ST4, we found that analogous cells of the ectopic foci stained predominantly with anti-ST3. The ability to induce formation of a hematopoietic microenvironment from mesenchymal precursors may make possible the development of new strategies for the treatment of primary disorders of stem cells and irreversible stromal injury.
Structure of the bradykinin B2 receptors' amino terminus.	The peptide hormone bradykinin exerts important biological functions by binding to and activating bradykinin B2 receptors. B2 receptors belong to the seven transmembrane domain (7TM) receptor family. Cloning of the cDNA sequences for the rat, human, and mouse bradykinin B2 receptor revealed several in-frame AUG triplets as potential initiation sites for translation. Due to "Kozak-like" consensus nucleotides, the AUG codon closest to transmembrane domain 1 was assumed the preferred initiation site for translation, but the real amino terminus of the B2 receptor protein was unknown. The amino terminus of several 7TM receptors has been shown to be essentially involved in receptor activation and/or ligand binding. Therefore we determined the amino terminus of the human and of the rat B2 receptor using domain-specific antipeptide antibodies, amino acid sequence analysis, and in vitro transcription/translation. We report that the human and rat B2 receptor protein start with the methionine which is translated from the first in-frame AUG. This start site extends the known amino terminus of the human and rat B2 receptors by 27 or 30 amino acid residues, respectively. Antibodies raised against a peptide of the initial 27 amino acids of the human B2 receptor stained B2 receptors on intact cells. This finding excludes the existence of a signal sequence for this receptor.
Low-level DNA exchanges in normal human and xeroderma pigmentosum cells after UV irradiation.	We have used a T4 endonuclease V assay method for UV-induced pryrimidine dimers in cellular DNA in vivo to obtain evidence for recombinational DNA exhanges after UV irradiation of normal human and Xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) cells. Our data indicate that the endonuclease-sensitive sites in excision-defective XP cells are removed very slowly from the irradiated parental strands and appear concomitantly in daughter strands newly synthesized during post-UV incubation. In the defective XP cells, the extent of appearance of sensitive sites in daughter strands synthesized during a period of 24 h after 10 J/m2 appears to be small, probably less than 15% of the initial number of sensitive sites detected in cellular parental strands. Demonstration of such exchanges between normal-density parental and 5-bromodeoxyuridine-labeled daughter strands by alkaline CsCl isopycnic centrifugation was unsuccessful. Further, the extent is much lower in normal human cells because of their efficient excision repair of the dimers before and after exchanges than in the defective XP cells.
Tau as a nucleolar protein in human nonneural cells in vitro and in vivo.	The Tau-1 monoclonal antibody was localized to the nucleolus of interphase cells and the nucleolar organizing regions (NORs) of acrocentric chromosomes in cultured human cells. Putative nucleolar and NOR tau was found in HeLa cells and lymphoblasts as well as in nontransformed fibroblasts and lymphocytes. To confirm the presence of tau in the nuclei of these nonneural cells, immunoblotting analysis was performed on isolated nuclei from lymphoblasts. Several tau bands were noted on the blot of the nuclear extract suggesting the presence of multiple tau isoforms. Tau-1 immunostaining demonstrated variable staining intensities between individual acrocentric chromosomes in all cells tested. In cultured peripheral lymphocytes, these staining patterns were the same from one chromosome spread to the next within an individual. This consistency of Tau-1 staining and its variability among NORs was reminiscent of staining patterns obtained using the silver-NOR procedure. Comparisons of Tau-1 immunostaining with silver staining of chromosome spreads from human lymphocytes demonstrated that Tau-1 did not immunostain all of the NORs that were silver stained. The intensity of Tau-1 fluorescence in nucleoli was further shown to be increased in phytohemagglutinin-stimulated lymphocytes, indicating an upregulation of nuclear tau when cells reentered the cell cycle. These results contribute to a growing body of evidence defining tau as a multifunctional protein that may be involved in ribosomal biogenesis and/or rRNA transcription in the nucleus of all cells as well as microtubule-stabilizing functions in the neuronal cytoplasm.
Regulation of human involucrin promoter activity by POU domain proteins.	POU domain transcription factors are expressed in the epidermis and are thought to be important regulators of keratinocyte gene expression. In the present article we demonstrate that POU transcription factors suppress transcription of the human involucrin (hINV) promoter. Cotransfection of pINV-2473, a construct containing 2473 base pairs of hINV upstream sequence linked to luciferase, with POU homeodomain transcription factors Oct1, Oct2, Brn4, SCIP, Skn1a or Skn1i, results in a strong suppression of basal promoter activity. The hINV upstream region includes a consensus POU transcription factor binding site, 5'-ATGCAAAT-3', centered around nucleotide -1277. Although this site interacts with POU factors, assays of promoter activity for a series of progressive 5' end truncations demonstrate that this site is not required for POU factor-dependent transcriptional suppression. Suppression is observed with the shortest truncation construct tested, pINV-41, suggesting that this inhibition may be mediated by effects on TATA box proteins. SCIP mutants that lack transactivation or DNA binding domains were shown to suppress transcription, suggesting that the DNA binding and transactivation domains are not required for suppression. Moreover, cotransfection of the pINV-2473 with pKSM13(+)OCT, which contains a single consensus OCT binding site, results in an increase in basal promoter activity, suggesting that endogenous POU factors suppress hINV promoter activity. In addition to inhibiting basal transcription, POU transcription factors also suppress phorbol ester-stimulated hINV promoter activity. These studies suggest that suppression of hINV promoter activity does not require the amino-terminal segment of the POU factor or direct POU factor interaction with DNA and suggest that the suppression may be via indirect interaction with other proteins in the vicinity of the TATA box. Thus, involucrin joins the ranks of a small set of genes that are regulated by POU factors in an octamer binding site-independent manner.
Cellular cholesterol efflux mediated by cyclodextrins. Demonstration Of kinetic pools and mechanism of efflux.	The efflux of cholesterol from cells in culture to cyclodextrin acceptors has been reported to be substantially more rapid than efflux induced by other known acceptors of cholesterol (Kilsdonk, E. P. C., Yancey, P., Stoudt, G., Bangerter, F. W., Johnson, W. J., Phillips, M. C., and Rothblat, G. H. (1995) J. Biol. Chem. 270, 17250-17256). In this study, we compared the kinetics of cholesterol efflux from cells with 2-hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrins and with discoidal high density lipoprotein (HDL) particles to probe the mechanisms governing the remarkably rapid rates of cyclodextrin-mediated efflux. The rate of cholesterol efflux was enhanced by shaking cells growing in a monolayer and further enhanced by placing cells in suspension to achieve maximal efflux rates. The extent of efflux was dependent on cyclodextrin concentration, and maximal efflux was observed at concentrations >50 mM. For several cell types, biexponential kinetics of cellular cholesterol efflux were observed, indicating the existence of two kinetic pools of cholesterol: a fast pool (half-time (t1/2) approximately 19-23 s) and a slow pool with t1/2 of 15-30 min. Two distinct kinetic pools of cholesterol were also observed with model membranes (large unilamellar cholesterol-containing vesicles), implying that the cellular pools are in the plasma membrane. Cellular cholesterol content was altered by incubating cells with solutions of cyclodextrins complexed with increasing levels of cholesterol. The number of kinetic pools was unaffected by raising the cellular cholesterol content, but the size of the fast pool increased. After depleting cells of the fast pool of cholesterol, this pool was completely restored after a 40-min recovery period. The temperature dependence of cyclodextrin-mediated cholesterol efflux from cells and model membranes was compared; the activation energies were 7 kcal/mol and 2 kcal/mol, respectively. The equivalent activation energy observed with apo-HDL-phospholipid acceptor particles was 20 kcal/mol. It seems that cyclodextrin molecules are substantially more efficient than phospholipid acceptors, because cholesterol molecules desorbing from a membrane surface can diffuse directly into the hydrophobic core of a cyclodextrin molecule without having to desorb completely into the aqueous phase before being sequestered by the acceptor.
Pain perception and brain evoked potentials in patients with angina despite normal coronary angiograms.	To evaluate the role of nociception in patients with angina despite normal coronary angiograms and to investigate whether any abnormality is confined to visceral or somatosensory perception.
Outcome of subcutaneous islet transplantation improved by polymer device.	Syngeneic transplantation of rat islets into subcutaneous tissue failed to cure streptozocin diabetes. The reason is unknown, but poor vascularization may play a role. We hypothesize that if a well-vascularized subcutaneous site could be created, islet grafts would do well. Four hundred freshly isolated mouse islets were transplanted syngeneically under the renal capsule or into the intraperitoneal cavity and compared with 800 islets in subcutaneous tissue of streptozocin-diabetic mice. Four weeks after transplantation, 14 of 14 under the renal capsule, 4 of 8 in the intraperitoneal site, and 0 of 7 in the subcutaneous tissue site achieved normoglycemia. To create vascularized organoids, we transplanted 800 mouse islets into polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) or polyglycolic acid (PGA) polymers in subcutaneous tissue of streptozocin-diabetic mice either immediately (four in PVA and six in PGA) or 7 days (four in PVA and four in PGA) after implantation. Four weeks after transplantation, the mean blood glucose level and body weight had no change with PVA. However, the mean body weight increased significantly with PGA and 3/10 became normoglycemic. When transplanting 400 islets with PGA polymers intraperitoneally, all animals (n=5) remained hyperglycemic 3 months later. In contrast, four of five recipients transplanted with 800 islets with PGA polymers subcutaneously became normoglycemic. The grafts from successful animals contained numerous revascularized islets containing a substantial amount of insulin. These preliminary results indicate that subcutaneous islet transplantation using PGA polymers can improve the metabolic status and, in some cases, even cure diabetes in streptozocin-diabetic mice.
Gene gun-mediated skin transfection with interleukin 12 gene results in regression of established primary and metastatic murine tumors.	Particle-mediated (gene gun) in vivo delivery of the murine interleukin 12 (IL-12) gene in an expression plasmid was evaluated for antitumor activity. Transfer of IL-12 cDNA into epidermal cells overlying an implanted intradermal tumor resulted in detectable levels (266.0 +/- 27.8 pg) of the transgenic protein at the skin tissue treatment site. Despite these low levels of transgenic IL-12, complete regression of established tumors (0.4-0.8 cm in diameter) was achieved in mice bearing Renca, MethA, SA-1, or L5178Y syngeneic tumors. Only one to four treatments with IL-12 cDNA-coated particles, starting on day 7 after tumor cell implantation, were required to achieve complete tumor regression. This antitumor effect was CD8+ T cell-dependent and led to the generation of tumor-specific immunological memory. By using a metastatic P815 tumor model, we further showed that a delivery of IL-12 cDNA into the skin overlying an advanced intradermal tumor, followed by tumor excision and three additional IL-12 gene transfections, could significantly inhibit systemic metastases, resulting in extended survival of test mice. These results suggest that gene gun-mediated in vivo delivery of IL-12 cDNA should be further developed for potential clinical testing as an approach for human cancer gene therapy.
Stress-strain curve and Young's modulus of a collagen molecule as determined by the X-ray diffraction technique.	The purpose of the work described in this paper was to make a stress-strain curve for a collagen molecule and estimate Young's modulus of a molecule along the molecular axis. X-ray diffractometry was performed on bovine Achilles tendon in order to measure strain in the collagen molecule along the molecular axis as a response to a macroscopically applied force. By geometrical calculations and experiments, cross-sectional areas of a molecule and molecules in a tendon collagen fiber were determined. The applied force was translated to the stress and the stress-strain curve of the collagen molecule was constructed, which was found to be almost linear. Young's modulus of the molecule was determined to be slightly smaller than when determined by dynamic mechanical methods. The difference was considered to suggest the existence of a viscoelastic component within the molecule as well as the difference in the mechanical properties of collagen in different tissues. The expected viscoelasticity was speculated to be related to the hydrogen bond network in the collagen molecule.
Percutaneous transhepatic cholangiography in diagnostic evaluation of 160 jaundiced patients. Results of an improved technic.	Percutaneous transhepatic cholangiography (PTC) was carried out in 160 patients with jaundice in whom the diagnosis could not be established by means of conventional methods of investigation. In PTC, selective catheterization of the common bile duct was employed and cholangiograms of high quality were obtained. In patients with obstruction of the biliary passages, the catheter was left indwelling centrally in the biliary passages for external bile drainage. The investigation, thus, did not necessitate immediate operation in these patients. PTC was successful in 113 of the 115 patients with obstructive jaundice. In forty-five patients the suspicion of obstruction could be discharged. Normal biliary passages were demonstrated in twenty-six patients. In nineteen patients it was impossible to cannulate the biliary tree and this was tantamount to nonobstructive jaundice. Complications occurred in six patients, but were not exclusively due to PTC. PTC provides a possibility for differentiation between obstructive and nonobstructive jaundice and thereby laparotomy can frequently be avoided. The incidence of complications may be maintained at an acceptable, low level provided the technic is meticulously observed.
Biological and imaging characteristics and radiation dose rates associated with the use of technetium-99m-labelled imidodiphosphate in the horse.	The biological and imaging characteristics of technetium-99m imidodiphosphate (Tc99m-IDP) were measured in 4 horses once and in 1 horse twice. All computational results are expressed with 95.5% (mean +/- 2 SD) confidence limits. The clearance half-time of the radiopharmaceutical from the blood was 29.6 +/- 2.3 min. The percentage of the administered dose circulating in the whole-blood volume at 4 h was 3.9 +/- 0.8%. The Tc99m-IDP radioactivity confined at the plasma fraction of the whole blood at 4 h was 85.3 +/- 1.6%. At 8 h, approximately 45 +/- 16% of the dose administered had been excreted via the urine. The mean effective half-time of the urine activity concentration was 1.1 +/- 0.3 h. The ratios of bone-to-soft tissue activities increased with time postinjection. Urinary radioactivity concentration measurements and radiation dose rate measurements immediately behind the elbows were analysed and it was determined that 24 h is an appropriate radioisolation time for mature horses administered 3.7 GBq (100 mCi) Tc99m-IDP.
Splice site mutation causing deletion of exon 21 sequences from the pro alpha 2(I) chain of type I collagen in a patient with severe dentinogenesis imperfecta but very mild osteogenesis imperfecta.	An eight-year-old boy was referred for dental assessment of dentinogenesis imperfecta, a full clinical examination also revealed joint hypermobility and some features of mild osteogenesis imperfecta although he had suffered few fractures. Analysis of the collagens produced by both gingival and skin fibroblast cultures showed the synthesis and intracellular retention of an abnormal alpha 2(I) chain that migrated faster than normal on SDS-PAGE. Cyanogen bromide peptide mapping of this intracellular protein indicated a probable deletion in the N-terminal peptide alpha 2CB4. The denaturation temperature of the mutant protein was only 36 degrees C, some 6 degrees C below normal. At 37 degrees C secretion of abnormal protein was not detectable but a lower temperature (30 degrees C) some was secreted into the medium. RT-PCR amplification of mRNA coding for alpha 2CB4 revealed a heterozygous deletion of the 108 bp exon 21 of COL1A2. Sequencing of PCR amplified genomic DNA identified a G --> A transition in the moderately conserved + 5 position of the IVS 21 5' consensus splice site causing the skipping of exon 21. Hybridization with allele-specific oligonucleotides showed no other family member had this base change. Since the cDNA deletion was associated with the (-) allele of a Pvu II polymorphism in exon 25 of COL1A2 we could demonstrate that the mutant pre-mRNA was alternatively spliced yielding both full length and deleted transcripts. Family genotype analysis indicated the mutation had originated in the paternal alpha 2(I) gene.
Superiority of the ear pinna over muscle tissue as site for DNA vaccination.	Three different vaccination sites were compared for efficiency of immunization with naked DNA. Using the bacterial lacZ gene as a model, all three sites of the mouse (skeletal muscle, dermis of abdominal skin or of the ear pinna) could express the gene product beta-gal but varied in expression time with muscle tissue showing the longest expression. Expression time, however, did not correlate with immune response intensity. The ear pinna was by far the most effective and muscle the least effective priming site for specific humoral and cytotoxic T cell-mediated immune responses. Following intra-pinna DNA inoculation, beta-gal expressing cells were detectable around the injection site and in the major draining lymph node. Efficiency of immunization was also dependent on the promoter and expression vector used. The cytomegalus virus promoter driven pCMV beta vector was superior to the Moloney murine leukemia virus LTR driven BAG vector. LacZ DNA immunization was also compared with cell-based vaccination with lacZ-transfected tumor cells, in which case again the pinna was the best site for inducing strong immune responses. Tumor-specific T cell responses could also be well induced in the pinna, leading to cytotoxic T lymphocyte induction and protective antitumor immunity. Thus, the pinna was found to be a privileged site for induction of antitumor responses and for genetic immunization, an important finding of immediate practical and potential future clinical implications.
Ultraviolet-A-dependent inhibition of cytoplasmic aconitase activity of iron regulatory protein-1 in NCTC 2544 keratinocytes.	The aconitase activity of the cytoplasmic iron regulatory protein-1 of NCTC 2544 keratinocytes is effectively inhibited by physiological doses of UVA. The time course of the photoinactivation is biphasic. A fast step is first observed corresponding to about 50% inactivation after exposure to 5 J/cm2 of UVA followed by a much slower photoinactivation at higher doses. The water-soluble antioxidant N-acetylcysteine only partially inhibits the photoinduced inactivation of the cytoplasmic aconitase function, whereas the lipophilic vitamin E, the iron chelator, desferrioxamine and the superoxide dismutase inhibitor, diethyldithiocarbamate do not protect at all. As a consequence, reactive oxygen species such as O2-., H2O2 and lipid peroxides and hydroperoxides seem to play a rather minor role in the inactivation induced by the UVA photooxidative stress although an oxidative stress produced by O2-. and H2O2 is known to inhibit reversibly and effectively cytoplasmic aconitase activity in mammalian cells.
Genetic variation and phylogeography of central Asian and other house mice, including a major new mitochondrial lineage in Yemen.	The mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) control region and flanking tRNAs were sequenced from 76 mice collected at 60 localities extending from Egypt through Turkey, Yemen, Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Nepal to eastern Asia. Segments of the Y chromosome and of a processed p53 pseudogene (Psip53) were amplified from many of these mice and from others collected elsewhere in Eurasia and North Africa. The 251 mtDNA types, including 54 new ones reported here, now identified from commensal house mice (Mus musculus group) by sequencing this segment can be organized into four major lineages-domesticus, musculus, castaneus, and a new lineage found in Yemen. Evolutionary tree analysis suggested the domesticus mtDNAs as the sister group to the other three commensal mtDNA lineages and the Yemeni mtDNAs as the next oldest lineage. Using this tree and the phylogeographic approach, we derived a new model for the origin and radiation of commensal house mice whose main features are an origin in west-central Asia (within the present-day range of M. domesticus) and the sequential spreading of mice first to the southern Arabian Peninsula, thence eastward and northward into south-central Asia, and later from south-central Asia to north-central Asia (and thence into most of northern Eurasia) and to southeastern Asia. Y chromosomes with and without an 18-bp deletion in the Zfy-2 gene were detected among mice from Iran and Afghanistan, while only undeleted Ys were found in Turkey, Yemen, Pakistan, and Nepal. Polymorphism for the presence of a Psip53 was observed in Georgia, Iran, Turkmenistan, Afghanistan, and Pakistan. Sequencing of a 128-bp Psip53 segment from 79 commensal mice revealed 12 variable sites and implicated >/=14 alleles. The allele that appeared to be phylogenetically ancestral was widespread, and the greatest diversity was observed in Turkey, Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Nepal. Two mice provided evidence for a second Psip53 locus in some commensal populations.
Reduced-fat bologna manufactured with poultry skin connective tissue gel.	The objectives of this study were to determine temperature (50, 60, 70, and 80 C) and time (0.5, 1.0, 1.5, and 2.0 h) effects on the water binding ability of chicken skin connective tissue (CCT) and its ability to form model gels; to develop and determine the functionality of added water (AW, 100, 200, and 300%) CCT gels; and to evaluate the attributes of reduced-fat bologna containing 10 to 30% addition of 100 to 300% AW CCT gels. Determination of water binding and holding capacities, and objective textural and color attributes provided data suggesting the practicality of developing and incorporating AW CCT gels as water binders in reduced-fat bologna. Processing qualities, and textural and sensory attributes were analyzed to assess the feasibility of manufacturing a reduced-fat processed poultry product containing a modified poultry by-product. Heating (60 C) CCT for 0.5 h allowed the formation of model CCT gels containing 100 to 300% AW. Added water decreased CCT gel fat, protein, collagen content, and hardness due to a protein (collagen) dilution. Hydration values were sufficient to allow CCT to bind up to 300% AW. Gel fragility and syneresis were observed in higher AW CCT gels due to protein dilution, a result of the high fat content of raw CCT (approximately 40%) and added water. Percentage gel addition and AW decreased (P < 0.05) the hardness of reduced-fat CCT gel bologna. All bologna treatments exhibited acceptable sensory attributes. This study indicated the feasibility of using lower AW CCT gels as texture-modifying agents in reduced-fat comminuted meat products.
Elastic modulus, permeation time and swelling ratio of a new porcine dermal collagen membrane.	The goal of a single step therapy has been an important consideration in the development of guided tissue regeneration devices. It would spare the patient from the need for repeated surgery and eliminate many problems associated with a non-resorbable barrier. Animal studies of a collagen membrane extracted from porcine dermis (PDCM), as conditioned by different concentrations of glutaraldehyde (GA), have shown it to be biocompatible and biodegradable (up to 9 wk). This in vitro study further investigated the physical properties of this membrane. A PDCM modified and cross-linked with various concentrations (0.01%, 0.05% and 3.00%) of GA was used. A similar control series was not conditioned. At least 4 specimens for each experimental condition were prepared. The elastic modulus (EM) was measured by a universal testing machine. In the permeability test, Al2O3 particles of different sizes (5-23 microns) were mixed with normal saline to make 5 v/v% suspension and the time needed for collecting 7.5 ml of the filtered suspension from 10 ml suspension was recorded. Swelling ratio (gamma) was also measured according to gamma = 1/Vf (volume fraction). Data were analysed using ANOVA and Tukey's LSD test. The EM (40.8 +/- 3.8 gf/mm2) for the GA conditioned membranes showed no significant difference but was greater (p < 0.05) than that of the control. There was a significant increase (100-300%) in the permeation time with GA concentration (control 0.168 vs. 3% GA 0.100). The results suggest that the physical properties of the GA conditioned PDCM (especially in 3%) may fit the clinical requirements of membrane materials used in guided tissue regeneration techniques.
The 1998 Lindberg Award. Comparison of glycerol preservation with cryopreservation methods on HIV-1 inactivation.	Cryopreservation and glycerol preservation are 2 successful methods for long-term preservation of human cadaver skin. Preservation is subjected to strict criteria to minimize the risk of disease transmission. This investigation compares the effects of glycerol preservation and cryopreservation on the inactivation of HIV-1. The effects of glycerol preservation and cryopreservation on inactivation of both extracellular and intracellular HIV-1Ba-L were investigated. After exposing HIV-1Ba-L-infected material to various concentrations of glycerol or to 10% dimethyl sulfoxide followed by cryopreservation, uninfected peripheral blood mononuclear cells were added to the treated material. At different time points during the culture, supernatants were taken to quantify HIV-1Ba-L and reverse transcriptase levels to determine HIV-1Ba-L infectivity. Cell-free HIV-1Ba-L was inactivated within 30 minutes in 70% and 85% glycerol. Also, intracellular HIV-1Ba-L in infected peripheral blood mononuclear cells or infected cadaver skin was completely inactivated by glycerol treatment in vitro. Cryopreservation did not show any extracellular or intracellular HIV-1Ba-L inactivation. Glycerol preservation--but not cryopreservation--of human cadaveric donor skin can inactivate both extracellular and intracellular HIV-1.
Lactate metabolism of subcutaneous adipose tissue studied by open flow microperfusion.	Open flow microperfusion and a novel calibration technique (ionic reference technique) were evaluated for the frequent measurement of the absolute lactate concentration in sc adipose tissue. Furthermore, the influence of the plasma insulin concentration on the lactate concentration of sc adipose tissue was investigated during hyperglycemia. Sixteen lean healthy young men participated in the studies. In the postabsorbtive state the mean sc lactate concentrations were 1.29 and 1.36 mmol/L for the ionic reference technique and the no net flux protocol, respectively (not significant, P > 0.05). The simultaneously measured arterialized plasma lactate concentration was significantly lower at 0.77 mmol/L (P < 0.05). Both the sc lactate concentration (1.8+/-0.33 mmol/L) and the plasma lactate concentration (0.96+/-0.03 mmol/L) were significantly elevated during a hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp experiment. During a hyperglycemic clamp experiment the sc lactate concentration reached a significantly elevated plateau (2.15+/-0.27 mmol/L) that was not influenced by the increasing plasma insulin concentration. It is concluded that 1) open flow microperfusion combined with the ionic reference technique enables frequent measurement of the sc lactate concentration; 2) sc adipose tissue is a significant source of lactate release in the postabsorbtive state as well as during hyperinsulinemic clamp conditions; and 3) insulin concentrations greater than 180 pmol/L have no further influence on adipocyte stimulation of sc adipose tissue with respect to lactate release.
Analysis of apoptotic cell death in human hair follicles in vivo and in vitro.	We analyzed changes of growth and apoptotic cell death in human hair follicles. In anagen hair follicles, terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate-biotin nick labeling-positive cells were observed in the keratogenous zone of the upper bulb matrix, the inner root sheath, and the companion layer of the outer root sheath. DNA ladder formation was also detected in anagen hair follicles. In catagen hair follicles, the lower bulb matrix cells around the dermal papilla and the outer layer cells of the outer root sheath became strongly positive, showing that apoptosis in catagen hair is distinct from that in anagen hair. We also confirmed the mRNA expression of four caspases (caspase-1, caspase-3, caspase-4, and caspase-7) in anagen hair follicles by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and in situ hybridization. When human anagen hair follicles were cultured in the presence of transforming growth factor-beta or tumor necrosis factor-alpha in the serum-free medium, transforming growth factor-beta but not tumor necrosis factor-alpha induced catagen-like morphologic changes, which were indistinguishable from normal catagen hair follicles. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha, however, strongly inhibited the elongation of the hair shaft in a dose-dependent manner, accompanied by abnormal morphology and increased cell death in the bulb matrix cells. Our results suggest that apoptosis in hair follicles involves two different types. One is related to the terminal differentiation of follicular epithelial cells in anagen hair. The other occurs as a major driving force to eliminate the distinct portion of epithelial components in catagen hair. Furthermore, this study strongly indicates that the transforming growth factor-beta pathway is involved in the induction of catagen phase in human hair cycle.
EGF stimulates transcription of CaN19 (S100A2) in HaCaT keratinocytes.	CaN19 (S100A2), a member of the S100 family of calcium-binding proteins, was originally isolated in a screen for tumor suppressor genes. Recent work from our laboratory suggests that CaN19 is likely to be an effector of the regenerative hyperplasia pathway of epidermal differentiation. As other work from our laboratory in a human skin organ culture model suggests that this response is mediated by activation of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor and/or related receptors of the ErbB family, we asked whether CaN19 expression could be increased by organ culture and by EGF treatment of human keratinocytes. CaN19 was strongly induced after 24 h of organ culture, and its induction could be blocked by PD153035, a specific inhibitor of EGF receptor tyrosine kinase activity. EGF treatment of immortalized human keratinocytes (HaCaT cells) increased CaN19 mRNA levels by 4.5-fold within 8 h, and a corresponding increase in CaN19 protein was observed by western blotting. EGF treatment had no effect on the expression of five other members of the S100A gene cluster. As assessed by nuclear run-off assay, CaN19 transcription increased rapidly in response to EGF, reaching a maximum induction of 16-fold after 2 h. In contrast, EGF treatment had no detectable effects on the decay of CaN19 transcripts, which were long lived (t1/2 > 6 h) in the presence or absence of EGF. PD153035 also blocked CaN19 transcription and the accumulation of CaN19 mRNA and protein in HaCaT cells. These results demonstrate that EGF receptor activation selectively stimulates CaN19 gene expression at the transcriptional level in human keratinocytes, and support the hypothesis that CaN19 is an important mediator of regenerative epidermal hyperplasia.
