Structural colouration of avian skin: convergent evolution of coherently scattering dermal collagen arrays.	Structural colours of avian skin have long been hypothesized to be produced by incoherent (Rayleigh/Tyndall) scattering. We investigated the colour, anatomy, nanostructure and biophysics of structurally coloured skin, ramphotheca and podotheca from 31 species of birds from 17 families in 10 orders from across Aves. Integumentary structural colours of birds include ultraviolet, dark blue, light blue, green and yellow hues. The discrete peaks in reflectance spectra do not conform to the inverse fourth power relationship predicted by Rayleigh scattering. The dermis of structurally coloured skin consists of a thick (100-500 micro m) layer of collagen that is usually underlain by a layer of melanin granules. Transmission electron micrographs (TEMs) of this colour-producing dermal collagen layer revealed quasi-ordered arrays of parallel collagen fibres. Two-dimensional (2-D) Fourier analysis of TEMs of the collagen arrays revealed a ring of peak spatial frequencies in the spatial variation in refractive index that are the appropriate size to make the observed ultraviolet-yellow colours by coherent scattering alone. One species, Philepitta castanea (Eurylaimidae), has exceptionally ordered, hexagonal arrays of collagen fibres that produce a hexagonal pattern of spatial frequency peaks in the power spectra. Ultraviolet, blue, green and yellow structural colours of avian skin are produced by coherent scattering (i.e. constructive interference) by arrays of collagen fibres in the dermis. Some yellow and orange skin colours are produced with a combination of structural and pigmentary mechanisms. These combined colours can have reflectance spectra with discrete peaks that are more saturated than hues produced by carotenoid pigments alone. Bluish facial skin from two species of Neotropical antbirds (Thamnophilidae) are nanostructurally too small to produce visible light by coherent scattering, and the colour production mechanism in these species remains unknown. Based on the phylogenetic distribution of structurally coloured skin in Aves, this mechanism of colour production has evolved convergently more than 50 independent times within extant birds.
An investigation on the use of data-driven scattering profiles in Monte Carlo simulations of ultraviolet light propagation in skin tissues.	Ultraviolet light can affect the appearance and medical condition of the human skin by triggering biophysical processes such as erythema, melanogenesis, photoaging and carcinogenesis. The evolution of these processes is related to the amount of ultraviolet light absorbed by skin pigments. This amount may vary with the wavelength and path length of the radiation that is propagated within the skin tissues. For many years, biomedical researchers have been investigating the propagation of ultraviolet light in skin tissues through Monte Carlo simulations. The scattering of the incident radiation by tissue internal structures, a key component in this process, is usually approximated by functions without a plausible connection with the underlying physical phenomena. In this paper, we examine the origins of such an approach, and question its generalized use with respect to wavelengths and biological materials for which there is no supporting data available. Furthermore, we perform comparisons to demonstrate that the accuracy and predictability of Monte Carlo simulations of ultraviolet propagation in skin tissues can be improved by using a data-driven approach to represent the scattering profile of these tissues.
Cutaneous photosynthesis of vitamin D: an evolutionary highly-conserved endocrine system that protects against environmental hazards including UV-radiation and microbial infections.	Phytoplankton and zooplankton have been producing vitamin D for more than 500 million years. While the function of vitamin D in the physiology of lower non-vertebrate organisms is not well understood, it is known that most vertebrates need vitamin D to develop and maintain a healthy mineralized skeleton. However, recent findings have demonstrated that 1,25(OH)2D, the biologically-active vitamin D metabolite, exerts a multitude of important physiological effects independently of the regulation of calcium and bone metabolism. These new functions of vitamin D include protection against cancer and other diseases in various tissues. In this review, current knowledge of an additional new function of the cutaneous photosynthesis of vitamin D, that has recently emerged, is summarized: the role of vitamin D as an evolutionary highly-conserved endocrine system that protects the skin and other tissues against environmental hazards, including ionizing and UV-radiation, microbial infections and oxidative stress, is discussed.
Comparison of adverse events of laser and light-assisted hair removal systems in skin types IV-VI.	Photoepilation, utilizing lasers and noncoherent light sources, is designed to irradiate as much of the follicular unit as possible, with melanin as the target chromophore. Wavelength absorption should generate energy sufficient to heat and destroy the hair follicle, while preserving the surrounding tissue. When performing photoepilation on African-American skin (Fitzpatrick skin types IV-VI) a greater risk of potential epidermal adverse events, such as dyspigmentation, blistering, crusting, edema, and subsequent scarring, is possible. To reduce epidermal melanin absorption of energy longer wavelengths are considered safer for use on Fitzpatrick skin types IV to VI. This article reviews and compares the reported incidences of adverse events in African-American skin, utilizing lasers and noncoherent light sources for assisted hair removal.
Retrieval of the physiological state of human skin from UV-Vis reflectance spectra - a feasibility study.	We test the feasibility of using an accurate radiative transfer model for the coupled air-tissue system in conjunction with a classic inversion scheme based on Bayesian optimal estimation theory for retrieval of parameters describing the physiological state of human skin. To that end, we analyse ultraviolet and visible reflectance spectra from human skin measured before, immediately after, and on each day for two weeks after photodynamic treatment with the hexyl ester of ALA and exposure to red light (632 nm). For the first time, we show that it is possible to perform a simultaneous retrieval of the melanosome concentration in both the basal and the upper layers of the epidermis.
Observation of coiled blood plexus in rat skin with diffusive light illumination.	Blood plexuses are characteristic anatomical features of acupuncture points (APs). We developed an optical technique using diffusive light illumination to increase the brightened area of skin for observation of the blood plexuses in skin. We found that the blood plexuses were coiled blood vessels which came out of the perforations in the fascia of muscle. The coiled vessels could be straightened by stretching the skin. We observed a series of blood plexuses at the putative APs along the left and right kidney meridian lines in the abdominal skin of rats. In addition, the locations of the plexuses on the muscle fascia were just above the putative acupuncture muscle channels along the kidney meridians. Furthermore, immunohistochemical analysis of the skin specimens of the plexuses revealed its neurovascular bundle nature as expected from known anatomical features of the APs.
Biodosimetry using radiation-induced micronuclei in skin fibroblasts.	We assessed micronuclei in dermal fibroblasts as a local biodosimeter for estimating accidental in vivo radiation exposure.
