Bullous dermatoses in end-stage renal failure: porphyria or pseudoporphyria?	Bullous dermatoses (BD) are well recognized in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). It is important to distinguish pseudoporphyria (porphyrin accumulation due to decreased clearance) from true porphyrias, particularly those in which acute neurological attacks may occur. Investigation of the dialysis patient poses practical diagnostic difficulties because urinary porphyrin profiles are not available. We describe a patient on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) with several recognized causative factors for porphyria cutanea tarda (PCT). The patient presented with a blistering photosensitive rash. We highlight the importance of investigating anuric patients with fractionation of both fecal and plasma porphyrins. Plasma porphyrins were grossly elevated (345 nmol/L; reference range, <13), whereas plasma porphyrins in a control group of CAPD patients without blistering rashes were only minimally elevated (mean, 23.9 nmol/L; SD, 11.0; n = 9). Fractionation of fecal porphyrins by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) yielded a pattern typical of PCT. In addition to the contributory factors for PCT that were present, it is possible that porphyrin accumulation secondary to renal failure played a role in the expression of her disease. Patients with ESRD presenting with BD require careful evaluation, including fractionation of fecal porphyrins.
Update on inherited bullous dermatoses.	Bullous diseases are becoming increasingly better understood owing to the active research which has taken place in this field over the past decade. Advances in understanding of bullous disease pathophysiology is translating into clinical applications for diagnosis and therapy that will greatly enhance the quality of care bullous disease patients may receive now and in the future. This review focuses on the progress which has been achieved in inherited bullous dermatoses.
Immunofluorescence in dermatology.	The accurate diagnosis of bullous and other immune diseases of the skin requires evaluation of clinical, histologic, and immunofluorescence findings. Immunofluorescence testing is invaluable in confirming a diagnosis that is suspected by clinical or histologic examination. This is especially true in subepidermal bullous diseases that often have overlap in the clinical and histologic findings. Direct immunofluorescence is performed on perilesional skin for patients with bullous diseases and lesional skin for patients with connective tissue diseases and vasculitis.
Autoimmune bullous dermatoses in the elderly: diagnosis and management.	Elderly individuals are susceptible to autoimmune bullous dermatoses (in particular, pemphigoid, epidermolysis bullosa acquisita and paraneoplastic pemphigus). Bullous dermatoses are associated with high morbidity and mortality. Bullous dermatoses result from autoimmune responses to one or more components of the basement membrane or desmosomes. Pemphigoid results from autoimmunity to hemidesmosomal proteins present in the basement membrane of stratified squamous epithelia. Patients present with tense blisters in flexural areas of the skin. Mild or moderate bullous pemphigoid may be treated with potent topical corticosteroids while extensive disease usually requires systemic corticosteroids or systemic immunosuppressive agents such as azathioprine. Mucosal pemphigoid affects one or more mucous membranes that are lined by stratified squamous epithelia. The two most commonly involved sites are the eye and the oral cavity. Lesions frequently result in scar formation, which may cause blindness. Patients with severe disease or ocular involvement require aggressive therapy with corticosteroids and cyclophosphamide. Epidermolysis bullosa acquisita results from autoimmunity to type VII collagen in the anchoring fibrils of the basement membrane area. Lesions may either arise on an inflammatory base or be non-inflammatory and result primarily from trauma. The inflammatory type of the disease is more responsive to therapy than the non-inflammatory type. Treatment options include corticosteroids, dapsone, cyclosporin, plasmapheresis and immunoglobulin G. Paraneoplastic pemphigus results from autoimmunity to multiple antigens within the desmosomes. The disorder is associated with neoplasms, especially leukaemia and lymphoma. Patients present with severe stomatitis and polymorphous skin eruption. The mucosal and cutaneous involvement may respond to successful treatment of the underlying neoplasm or may require immunosuppressive therapy.
Disseminated bullous eruption with systemic reaction caused by Cimex lectularius.	Bedbugs seem to have become more common due to international trade and travelling. We report on a 37-year-old man who developed a bullous reaction with fever and general malaise due to bites of the common bedbug, Cimex lectularius. Fortunately, bullous and systemic reactions are rare.
Eosinophilic pustular folliculitis in infancy: an unusual case]	Eosinophilic pustular folliculitis in children is a follicular inflammatory dermatosis, usually occurring early in life. The disease progresses in flares of prurigenous plaques studded with papules and sterile pustules of the scalp and other areas of the skin.
Bullous systemic lupus erythematosus]	Bullous systemic lupus erythematosus is a rare disease associated with subepidermal blistering and, in most cases, severe systemic manifestations. We describe a 19-year-old man with systemic lupus erythematosus who developed a bullous eruption along with a flare-up of systemic manifestations during the course of his disease and discuss the different forms of bullous lesions in patients with lupus erythematosus.
Bullous systemic lupus erythematosus.	Blistering eruptions are rare cutaneous manifestations of lupus erythematosus (LE) that may be caused by different mechanisms. Subepidermal clefting with frank vesiculation may occur in early lesions of chronic-, subacute-, and acute-cutaneous LE due to a severe vacuolar alteration of the dermoepidermal junction (DEJ), dermal edema, and lekocytoclastic vasculitis. An exaggerated example of such changes is rarely seen at the advancing edge of the annular plaques of subacute cutaneous LE with erythema-multiforme (EM)-like appearance, a condition formerly described as Rowell's syndrome. In a recently reported novel variant of LE-associated toxic epidermal necrolysis, dysregulated keratinocyte apoptosis has been proposed as an underlying mechanism. These vesiculobullous lesions are considered to be LE-specific. Blistering may also occur in LE in the context of a coexisting immunobullous disease. Pemphigus, bullous pemphigoid (BP), epidermolysis bullosa acquisita (EBA), dermatitis herpetiformis, and linear IgA bullous dermatosis have been all reported in association with LE. Their differentiation relies upon characteristic clinical, histologic, and immunopathologic features (Table 1). These blistering eruptions are rather non-specific for LE.
Lyell syndrome revisited: analysis of 18 cases of severe bullous skin disease in a burns unit.	Over the last few years, understanding of the pathophysiology of toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), or Lyell's disease, has substantially increased. However, differentiation of severe bullous skin disease remains a challenge for the clinician, and one that is often complicated by late patient referral. We performed a retrospective analysis of all patients with severe bullous skin disease, admitted between 1997 and 2002 to the Burn Centre, which is an integrated part of the Division for Plastic, Hand- and Reconstructive Surgery at the University Hospital of Zurich, Switzerland. We present an overview of our strategies and of the diagnostic and therapeutic difficulties encountered. The final diagnoses of the 18 patients referred to the unit were as follows: eight cases of TEN, one case of staphylococcal scalded-skin syndrome (SSSS), two cases of generalised drug eruption, one case of acute generalised exanthematic pustulosis and one case of febrile ulceronecrotic pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta (PLEVA). In two cases, the diagnosis remained unclear. In three cases, paraneoplastic origins were suspected but not demonstrated. The overall mortality rate was 33% (six of 18 patients). Remarkably, all patients with histologically confirmed TEN survived. Six of these patients were successfully treated with intravenous immunoglobulins (IVIG). The most common single causative drug inducing TEN (four cases out of eight) was Phenytoin. Establishing an accurate diagnosis-based on a skin biopsy, harvested at an early stage-is more important than ever, because more specific and effective therapeutic modalities are available. As these potentially life-threatening bullous skin disorders are rare, we recommend, that care be provided by an experienced interdisciplinary team, comprising a dermatologist, or dermatopathologist, an intensive care specialist and a plastic surgeon.
Diabetic bullosis. A case report]	Bullosis diabeticorum is a very rare complication of diabetes; few more than fifty cases have been reported in literature. We report on an 80-year-old man with non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus who showed bullosis diabeticorum relapsing at the leg. We describe the cutaneous feature and the procedure carried out. We analyze the different etio-pathogenetic hypothesis and differential diagnosis, that is always by exclusion.
Multicentric reticulohistiocytosis presenting with papulonodular skin eruption and polyarthritis.	Multicentric reticulohistiocytosis is a rare multisystem disease, presenting with skin lesions and erosive polyarthritis, which is often associated with malignancy. A 2 year untreated natural course of multicentric reticulohistiocytosis, in which the typical nodular skin manifestation of the disease and polyarticular arthritis was present, is described in a 34-year-old lady with no history of major medical disease. Histopathology showed the characteristic histiocytic and multinucleated giant cell infiltrate with ground glass cytoplasm. Massive destruction of articular surfaces and new papular skin lesions accompanied by atrophic scars of previous skin lesions developed after 2 years of untreated active disease.
Vulvar dermatoses and pruritus vulvae.	This article has attempted to summarize the various causes of vulvar pruritus and present a framework for evaluating these patients. Although not all patients have a readily classifiable disorder, symptomatic treatment and reassurance can provide considerable patient relief. There is no easy answer, yet the recognition that the process is treatable, if not curable, should provide encouragement for both patients and their physicians.
Vulvitis and vulvovaginitis: cutaneous considerations.	Vulvar dermatoses (previously dystrophies) include psoriasis, allergic or irritant reactions, lichen sclerosus, lichen simplex chronicus, lichen planus, and tinea. Some of these have bullous or erosive forms, but they differ from the immune-mediated vesiculobullous disease group, which includes vulvar pemphigus, benign familial pemphigus, pemphigoid, linear IgA disease, and dermatitis herpetiformis. Vulvar ulcers can occur in dermatoses resulting from systemic disease (Behçet's syndrome, lupus, pellagra, and Reiter's disease) or malignancies resembling dermatoses (extramammary Paget's disease, squamous cell carcinoma, and vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia). Many vulvar dermatoses itch or burn. Vulvodynia occurs with irritant and allergic dermatitis, vulvar dermatoses, complications of steroid use, candidiasis, papillomatosis, vestibulitis, or essential (dysesthetic) vulvodynia. Diagnostic tests (potassium hydroxide, cultures, and biopsy) should establish the diagnosis and therapy should be specific. Few skin diseases are curable but all are treatable; effective management is defined by whether a medication reliably controls outbreaks or symptoms when it is used. Patience is recommended, because treatment may take weeks or months.
Pruritic urticarial papules and plaques of pregnancy.	Pruritic urticarial papules and plaques of pregnancy (PUPPP) are among the most common pruritic dermatoses observed in pregnant women. PUPPP appears most frequently in the third trimester, in primigravidas, and in multiple gestation pregnancies. The eruption of changes occurs initially on the abdomen and extends over the thighs, legs, back, buttocks, arms, and breasts. Skin changes typical for PUPPP are erythematous, urticarial plaques, and papules. Rash regression is usually observed within 6 weeks postpartum. Immunologic mechanisms, hormonal abnormalities, and abdominal skin distension have been suggested as etiologic mechanisms. PUPPP is thought to be harmless for the mother and fetus and usually requires intervention only for symptom relief. In some cases, laboratory investigation, histologic examination, and immunologic study should be performed to exclude more serious disorders of pregnancy, such as herpes gestationis or intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy. This article reviews the epidemiology, clinical manifestation, etiology, differential diagnosis, and treatment of PUPPP.
Erythema toxicum neonatorum]	(ETN) is a benign, self limited, asymptomatic skin condition, that only occurs during the neonatal period. This clinical entity is caractherized by small, sterile, erythematous papules, vesicles, and occasionally pustules, appearing on the trunk, extremities, and the face. The lesions are transitory, appear after 1-2 day of life, and regres after 5-14 days. ETN occurs in 30-50% of full-term infants, and just in 5% of preterm infants, with no significant differences based on race or sex. The ethiology or pathophysiology of ETN are uncertain, but the presence of the eosinophilic infiltrate in the lesions of erythema suggests an allergic ethiology, even no allergens have been identified. The treatment is not required, and the prognosis is excellent with spontaneous resolution.
Bullous dermatoses in childhood: part II.	Bullous dermatoses are commonly encountered in childhood practice. Much confusion exists among clinicians because of the similarity of clinical lesions, paucity of relevant literature, and varied nomenclature used for these diseases. For a better understanding of the proposed classification, this second part is a review of diseases with nonhereditary characteristics of subepidermal cleavage and hereditary characteristics with intraepidermal and subepidermal cleavage.
Bullous presentation of Henoch-Schönlein purpura in an adult.	Henoch-Schönlein purpura is a small vessel vasculitis occurring mainly in childhood and rarely in adulthood. Typical cutaneous eruption may begin as macular or urticarial erythematous lesions progressing to a palpable purpura. In adults, the disease has a propensity to be more severe and chronic and affects mainly the ankles and feet. Bullae, vesicles and ulcers are occasionally seen in this group. The prognosis depends on renal involvement, commonly seen in adults. We report a new case of Henoch-Schönlein purpura in a 36-year-old man presenting with a bullous eruption followed by the appearance of abdominal pain and hematuria.
Bullosis diabeticorum associated with a prediabetic state.	Bullosis diabeticorum, or diabetic bullae, is a non-inflammatory blistering condition that is virtually diagnostic of diabetes. Diabetic bullae most often present as painless, tense, superficial bullae that occur in an acral distribution and commonly heal in 2-6 weeks without scarring, but complications such as secondary bacterial infection or hemorrhage may occur. The diagnosis of bullosis diabeticorum in a nondiabetic patient should prompt screening for diabetes. A case of recurrent bullae in a prediabetic patient is presented, with a review of the clinical features and significance of bullosis diabeticorum.
Immunohistology of bullous autoimmune skin diseases]	Autoimmune bullous dermatoses undertake frequently oropharyngeal mucous membranes and the skin surface, either in succession or simultaneously. Actual observation technics by photon and electron microscopy, by immunofluorescence and immunohistochemistry (with specific antibodies) have allowed to differentiate more particularly pemphigus, bullous pemphigoid, cicatricial pemphigoid, acquired bullous epidermolysis, all autoimmune bullous affections.
Blistering diseases. Diagnostic help for primary care physicians.	At presentation, the differential diagnosis of bullous disease may seem difficult. However, the diagnosis may be clarified by considering such factors as Nikolsky's sign, age of the patient at onset, and pattern and distribution of blisters. Careful review of family, recreational, occupational, and drug histories may also help to identify the cause.
Immunodermatology update: the immunologically mediated vesiculobullous diseases.	Before a specific diagnosis of an immunologically mediated blistering disease can be made, the clinical and histologic features and the results of direct and indirect immunofluorescence studies (with use of multiple substrates in some cases) must be assessed. For both subepidermal and intraepidermal groups of blistering diseases, direct immunofluorescence testing of perilesional tissue is critical for diagnosis. For these conditions, indirect immunofluorescence testing of serum is important for diagnosis and has a role in management of selected diseases. In dermatitis herpetiformis, indirect testing of serum for IgA antiendomysial antibodies is useful for both diagnosis and management. Indirect testing of serum for IgG antibodies to intercellular substance is important for diagnosis and, in conjunction with the clinical findings, can be used as a guide for monitoring disease activity in patients with pemphigus. Immunoelectron microscopy, immunoprecipitation, and immunoblotting studies have identified the sites of immune deposits and the specific antigens in most of the immunologically mediated bullous diseases. From a practical standpoint, however, direct and indirect immunofluorescence testing, in conjunction with clinical and histologic evaluations, is a simple, rapid, and relatively inexpensive tool for diagnosis and management.
The relevance of immunohistochemical techniques in the differentiation of subepidermal bullous diseases.	There are several subepidermal bullous diseases. In some, the clinicopathological features are distinctive, whereas in others there is a variable degree of overlap that necessitates the use of ultrastructural and biochemical studies to distinguish the different diseases. In this paper, we review the literature and describe our experience using simplified immunological techniques in the diagnosis of subepidermal bullous diseases.
A woman with 'strange bumps' on her feet]	A 57-year-old woman came to the dermatologist because of 'strange bumps' on her feet. The bumps were not painful. On physical examination bumps were seen on the medial parts of her left foot, near the sole. They had the same colour as the skin and decreased in size while sitting. The diagnosis was: 'piezogenic papules'.
Linear IgA disease: complicated by alpha thalassemia.	Dapsone is regarded as the treatment of choice for linear immunoglobulin A disease (chronic bullous disease of childhood). It is associated with both hemolytic anemia and methemoglobinemia. The hematotoxic effects are dose related and can result in significant hemolysis. We present a case of a patient with chronic bullous disease of childhood and alpha thalassemia trait. Complete resolution occurred on a standard dose of dapsone without significant hemolysis.
Cutaneous drug eruptions associated with the use of biologies and cutaneous drug eruptions mimicking specific skin diseases.	Drug eruptions are common adverse events affecting approximately 3% of hospitalized patients, and can be seen with the use of almost any medication. Making a diagnosis could be challenging because no pattern is specific for a particular drug. A study of clinical aspects, histopathology and history of drug intake is usually necessary to establish the diagnosis, and discontinue the offending agent when feasible. The pathomechanisms of drug-related skin reactions remain unclear. However, the induction of drug reactions by a new class of biologies which block a specific target should help to better understand the pathogenesis of these eruptions.
Recurrent toxin-mediated perineal erythema in an 11-year-old child]	Recurrent perineal erythema is a rare toxin-mediated disease. We report the case of recurrent toxin-mediated perineal erythema in a child.
A neonate with peculiarly arranged skin abnormalities]	A tropical doctor reviewed a female Malawian neonate with a vesicular rash and linear hyperpigmentation that followed the lines of Blaschko. This distribution is typical for incontinentia pigmenti, a congenital X-linked dermatosis, which usually resolves spontaneously in adolescence.
Wounds in autoimmune bullous dermatoses and systemic connective tissue diseases]	Autoimmune bullous dermatoses are a group of skin and/or mucous membrane diseases characterized by blisters and erosions, which are the results of autoantibodies directed to structural components of desmosomes and structural proteins of the basement membrane zone. In this group of diseases, the diagnosis is based on history, clinical presentation, histopathologic findings, findings of direct and indirect immunofluorescence, and specific evidence of circulating antibodies by the enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) method. Connective tissue diseases are a heterogeneous group of diseases with some common pathogenetic mechanisms and frequent involvement of the skin. This group of diseases commonly includes lupus erythematosus, dermatomyositis/polymyositis, localized and systemic scleroderma. As most of the diseases in this group have positive one of the antinuclear antibodies, in clinical practice these diseases are often called autoimmune connective tissue diseases. In the group of autoimmune bullous dermatoses, wounds occur as the result of breaking of blisters, and consequently affect the epidermis alone or epidermis and upper dermis, while in the group of systemic diseases of connective tissue, wounds occur in advanced stages of disease as a result of vascular tissue damage, causing necrosis of tissue and wounds. When wounds in these diseases last for a longer period (longer than 3 months), they are considered as chronic wounds and in these cases it is necessary to determine the reason for slow healing. In patients with wounds as a symptom of disease, besides systemic therapy, special attention should be paid to local therapy in order to prevent superinfection and accelerate epithelialization and wound healing.
Vesiculobullous dermatomyositis with sensory motor neuropathy.	A 74-year-old man presented with muscle weakness in both legs for a duration of 2 months. Physical examination revealed periorbital edema and erythema, erythema on the neck and chest, erythematous papules on the proximal-distal interphalangeal and metocarpophalangeal joints, crusted plaque lesions on the thighs and around the knees, and bullous and ulcerated lesions in the antecubital and popliteal fossae (Figure 1A and 1B). Some bullous lesions were intact and some were ulcerated. There was severe edema especially in the upper extremities. He had a history of 15-kg weight loss for 4 months. Laboratory findings were remarkable for a white blood cell count of 16.0 K/UL (4.60-10.20 K/UL), a C-reactive protein of 6.93 mg/dL (0-0.5 mg/dL), an erythrocyte sedimentation rate of 50 mm/h (8-15 mm/h), an aspartate aminotransferase level of 213 U/L (10-40 U/L), a lactate dehydrogenase of 447 U/L (< 225 U/L), and a creatine kinase level of 1733 U/L (29-200 U/L). Results from antinuclear antibody at 1:320 titers and anti-smooth muscle antibody were positive. Results from anti-SS A/SS B antibodies, anti Jo-1 antibody, U1-snRNP antibody, and anti-ds DNA antibody tests were negative. A skin biopsy specimen obtained from the right antecubital fossa showed minimal orthokeratosis and subepidermal detachments. There was marked edema in the dermis and lymphocyte infiltration around the skin appendages (Figure 2). Direct immunofluorescence studies demonstrated scattered staining for C3 and IgM at the basal membrane zone. Results for IgG, IgA, and fibrin staining were negative. Muscle biopsy from left deltoid muscle was performed and some muscle fibers were demonstrated to be atrophied. There was remarkable difference between muscle fiber diameters. With Masson staining, there was increased connective tissue and no inflammation. Electromyography (EMG) showed a myogenic pattern. Nerve conduction studies showed tibial, median, ulnar, peroneal motor neuropathy, and median, ulnar, and sural sensory neuropathy. Based on these findings, diagnosis of vesiculo-bullous dermatomyositis (DM) was made. Further investigation of esophagogastroduodenoscopy with biopsy revealed ulcerated lesions on antrum and corpus and these were assessed as Helicobacter pylori-negative atrophic chronic gastritis. No pathologic findings were described on chest, abdomen, and pelvic tomography. Levels of tumor markers were within normal ranges. Overall, no sign of malignancy was detected. Methyl prednisolone treatment of 1 mg/kg/d was started; however, new bullous lesions erupted while the original lesions were healing.
Histopathological discriminant criteria between lichenoid drug eruption and idiopathic lichen planus: retrospective study on selected samples.	The lesions observed in 15 idiopathic lichen planus (ILP) skin biopsies were compared with those occurring in 15 clinically relevant lichenoid drug eruptions (LDE). Various histopathological features were taken into account. Statistical analysis of results showed that none of these can be considered as a significant criterium allowing a pathognomonic differential diagnosis between ILP and LDE. Nevertheless, a strong suggestion of drug etiology can be inferred when the following histopathological signs ('LDE-related criteria') are present: focal parakeratosis, focal interruption of the granular layer, cytoid bodies in the cornified and granular layers, present in more than 50% of LDE and never in ILP.
Bullous papular urticaria.	A bullous type of papular urticaria is seen commonly in Iraq. The eruption can be extensive, simulating some of the more serious bullous skin diseases. This paper describes the condition clinically and histologically.
Cutaneous paraneoplastic syndromes of the skin]	With paraneoplastic skin diseases, we distinguish between obligatory and facultative symptoms. These may be caused by the tumor via allergic or immunologic mechanisms, but mostly the mechanism is unclear (e.g. coincidental). After removal of the tumor, the signs and symptoms should disappear. It is important to avoid strong immunosuppressive treatment, because it may produce dissemination of the tumor.
Herpes gestationis. An update.	Advances in the immunopathology of blistering diseases now provide increased accuracy in the diagnosis of herpes gestationis in pregnancy. Guidelines are presented in this review to determine the presence of the disease. Exogenous corticosteroids will effectively alleviate symptoms and prevent formation of new lesions.
Bullous pemphigoid.	Bullous pemphigoid is an autoimmune blistering dermatologic disease characterized clinically by tense bullae that may develop on normal or erythematous skin. The major histologic feature is a subepidermal blister with variable degrees of dermal inflammation. Other immunologically mediated blistering skin diseases may mimic bullous pemphigoid, including herpes gestationis, cicatricial pemphigoid, dermatitis herpetiformis, and epidermolysis bullosa acquisita. These diseases will be discussed. Most patients with bullous pemphigoid demonstrate circulating autoantibodies reactive with an antigen located in the lamina lucida region of the basement membrane zone. Complement activation by these autoantibodies initiates influx and activation of mast cells along with other inflammatory cells. Tissue injury with damage and eventual destruction of the basement membrane occurs as a result of the release of inflammatory mediators. The final result is subepidermal blister formation. The course of bullous pemphigoid tends to be self-limited, and successful treatment is usually effected with systemic glucocorticosteroids.
Herpes gestationis.	Only 14 years have elapsed since immunofluorescence techniques revised our concept of herpes gestationis. As our inquiry broadens, the answers seem farther away. Yet much knowledge has been gained regarding predisposition and the pathomechanism of this elusive disease. I offer a review of historical context and an update on our current confusions regarding this rare autoimmune dermatosis of pregnancy.
Disseminated cicatricial pemphigoid in a child and in an adult. Ultrastructural diagnostic criteria and differential diagnosis with special reference to acquired epidermolysis bullosa.	The first case of an infant affected with a rare, disseminated variant of benign cicatricial pemphigoid is described, showing the same ultrastructural features of initial blister formation as an adult patient. These consist in edematous changes within the superficial dermis caused by vesiculation or dissolution of cellular and noncellular connective tissue elements, coalescing into subepidermal blisters. Differential diagnosis excludes other nonhereditary bullous disorders because of the ultrastructure of the dermo-epidermal junction in nascent blisters and in perilesional skin. In spite of evident clinical, histological, and immunohistological similarities as well as controversial and confusing immunological studies, acquired epidermolysis bullosa can be clearly separated from our case by a diagnostic hallmark on the electron-microscopical level, i.e., band-like IgG depositions beneath the basal lamina. This is demonstrated in comparing the two cases of disseminated cicatricial pemphigoid with three patients suffering from acquired epidermolysis bullosa, thus providing evidence that disseminated cicatricial pemphigoid and acquired epidermolysis bullosa are two distinct nosologic entities.
Diagnosis and management of chronic oral mucosal bullous diseases.	Chronic blistering diseases involving the mouth are frequently difficult to diagnose correctly and can present a problem with management. Pemphigus vulgaris, cicatricial pemphigoid, and recurrent oral erythema multiforme may be difficult to separate from each other and from other erosive diseases such as recurrent aphthous stomatitis and erosive lichen planus. Essential to establishing a correct diagnosis is a pertinent history, a physical examination, and histopathologic and direct immunofluorescence studies. Oral pemphigus vulgaris can usually be managed successfully with prednisone alone but occasionally another immunosuppressive medication in concurrence with prednisone is necessary. Dapsone is the most efficacious treatment for oral cicatricial pemphigoid, and brief courses of prednisone usually control individual episodes of severe recurrent oral erythema multiforme. It is important that physicians who undertake treatment of these diseases be fully aware of the untoward effects of the medications that are being utilized.
Linear IgA bullous dermatosis mimicking erythema multiforme in adult.	This report describes a 49-year-old woman with an erythema multiforme--like rash and direct immunofluorescence showing linear IgA deposits at the dermoepidermal junction. Light microscopy revealed features of bullous pemphigoid, dermatitis herpetiformis, and erythema multiforme; immunoelectron microscopy demonstrated IgA deposition beneath the lamina densa about anchoring fibrils. These data provide additional information about the variable clinical and histologic manifestations of the adult linear IgA bullous dermatosis and emphasize the diagnostic dilemmas of light microscopy, which are resolved by immunohistochemical methods.
Immunoelectron microscopy in subepidermal autoimmune bullous diseases: a prospective study of IgG and C3 bound in vivo in 32 patients.	Thirty-two patients suffering from subepidermal autoimmune bullous disease were studied prospectively by clinical examination and immunoelectron microscopy. Clinically, 1 patient had herpes gestationnis, 14 typical bullous pemphigoid (BP), 3 epidermolysis acquisita (EBA), 3 cicatricial pemphigoid (CP), and 11 patients overlapping clinical diseases. These 11 patients shared clinical features of BP, EBA, or CP and a clinical diagnosis could not be done safely. Immunoelectron microscopy revealed diaminobenzidine deposits in 20 patients on the epidermal side of dermo-epidermal junction in the lamina lucida as in BP. In 5 patients, deposits located mostly under the anchoring fibril zone, in the floor of a sublamina densa dermoepidermal separation for 2 of them, were consistent with a diagnosis of EBA. In 6 patients, deposits were located mostly in the lamina densa, in the floor of a dermoepidermal separation occurring in the lamina lucida for 3 of them. This suggests that some of these 6 patients had neither EBA or BP, but another autoimmune bullous disease again, an uncharacterized component of dermoepidermal junction located in the lamina densa. Finally, a correlation exists between the sites of IgG and/or C3 components on epidermal or dermal side of dermoepidermal junction and the presence or absence of characteristic clinical features such as scar, milia formation, or mucosal involvement.
Comel's linear circumflex ichthyosis and Netherton's syndrome. General conceptions based on study of 4 cases (author's transl)]	We have recently observed 4 new particularly demonstrative cases and we think it is adequate to give a general conception in order to bring together in one and a single syndrom the ichthyosis linearis circumflexa Comel and the Netherton's syndrom. We also emphasize some features:--the possible association of ichthyosis linearis circumflexa with family epileptogenous encephalopathy;--a particular type of trichorrhexis which we named "frayed pili torti";--the usual lethality in males, with possible serious viral and pyococcic superinfection;--the characteristics of ichtyosiform erythroderma in the Netherton's syndrom. At the end of this study we confirm that a unicist theory which would consider Netherton's syndrom and ichthyosis linearis circumflexa as one and a single disease should be adopted.
Cicatricial pemphigoid (Brunsting-Perry type). Case report and immunofluorescence findings.	We describe clinical and immunofluorescence findings of a patient with Brunsting-Perry-type cicatricial pemphigoid. Direct immunofluorescence showed tissue-fixed basement membrane zone antibodies similar to those characteristic of bullous pemphigoid. Circulating antibodies to the basement membrane zone were not found. Brunsting-Perry-type cicatricial pemphigoid probably represents a clinical variation midway in the cicatricial pemphigoid-bullous pemphigoid spectrum of disease. Management with intralesional corticosteroids was successful in controlling the skin lesions.
Bullous phototoxic contact dermatitis caused by Dictamnus albus. The Bible's "burning bush"?]	A bullous phototoxic reaction occurred in a 27-year-old man working with the plant Dictamnus albus. The skin changes disappeared, leaving behind areas of hyperpigmentation, after treatment with corticoid-containing ointments. Possible causes are 5- and 8-methoxypsoralen, perhaps also photodynamically active alkaloids of the plant, as well as sun-ray exposure and sweating. Dictamnus albus may be the biblical "burning bush". Since the plant becoming ever more popular in German gardens, a phytophototoxic reaction should be considered in the differential diagnosis of the described symptoms.
The problem of "Duhring-Brocq's" disease in children (author's transl)]	Inquiry in the french dermatological main centers and a survey of the literature suggest that the once described as Duhring-Brocq disease in children, may refer to three distinct bullous diseases. Taking in account clinical features, photon and electron-microscopical data, investigation for basement membrane antibodies, search for intestinal villous atrophy, effectiveness of dapsone or sulfapyridine, it is indeed possible to distinguish:1) bullous pemphigoid (very rarely); 2) dermatitis herpetiformis (not frequently), those two affections being similar to adult forms; 3) benign chronic bullous dermatitis of childhood. This last child specific disease, is the most frequently observed. Its clinical features are comparable to pemphigoids, but histopathology and immunology data are different. Its response to dapsone of sulfapyridine and to free gluten diet is note perfect and not constant, but its evolution is spontaneously favorable after a few years.
Cutaneous immunofluorescent microscopy: a practical diagnostic technique.	Cutaneous immunofluorescent microscopy is a relatively new technique for the diagnosis of cutaneous disorders. Its application has been well established in vesiculobullous and connective tissue disorders. With the development of a transport medium for skin biopsy specimens it has become a practical diagnostic technique. In 1974 a laboratory for immunofluorescent microscopy was established in Vancouver and, on the basis of its experience, the indications for, and results of, immunofluorescent studies are reviewed.
Cicatricial pemphigoid confined to the larynx.	The main features linking and yet distinguishing bullous pemphigoid from cicatricial pemphigoid have been discussed. This report demonstrates the usefulness of direct immunofluorescence study in establishing a diagnosis of cicatricial pemphigoid when lesions are confined to a single and unusual site such as the larynx.
Diagnosis and management of long-standing benign oral ulceration.	The authors formed a Mouth Clinic at Sunnybrook Hospital in 1973 since when there have been 3025 patient visits. Those patients with chronic ulceration present a challenge, the diagnosis sometimes being difficult and therapy not rapidly effective. The differential diagnosis includes lichen planus, pemphigus vulgaris, benign mucous membrane pemphigoid, discoid lupus erythematosus, erythema multiforme, aphthous ulcers, Behcets disease, periadenitis mucosa necrotica recurrens, specific infections and iatrogenic causes. It is possible to reach a definite diagnosis in virtually every case by means of a good history and careful clinical examination supplemented by biopsies and in some cases direct and indirect immunofluorescent studies. Treatment emphasizes scrupulous attention to oral hygiene with baking soda mouthwashes and careful teeth cleaning to minimize the accumulation of dental plaque. Specific therapy includes topical steroids in lichen planus, intra muscular gold in benign mucous membrane pemphigoid, a previously unreported treatment which considerably improved seven out of ten patients, and tetracycline mouthwashes in aphthous ulcers.
Membranous and pseudomembranous lesions of the esophagus (author's transl)]	Case reports are given of 2 patients with benign esophageal pemphigoids , of 1 patient with chickenpox involving the esophagus, an of 1 patient with carcinoma of the cardia. Differential diagnosis of membranous lesions of the esophagus is discussed on the basis of these case reports.
Cicatricial pemphigoid: direct and indirect immunofluorescent studies.	Oral mucosa, skin tissue, and serum samples from thirty-three patients with cicatricial pemphigoid were studied by the direct and indirect immunofluorescent techniques to determine the presence of tissue-bound and circulating antibodies. A linear continuous basement membrane zone pattern was observed in 96.9 percent of the oral mucosa biopsy specimens studied. This pattern is indistinguishable from the pattern observed in bullous pemphigoid. In 97 percent of the cases clinically healthy skin biopsy specimens were negative for basement membrane zone staining. Circulating anti-basement membrane zone antibodies were present in 36.4 percent of thirty-three patients with cicatricial pemphigoid in low titer (1:10 to 1:40), when normal oral mucosa was used as substrate. The demonstration of tissue-bound and circulating basement membrane zone antibodies in cicatricial pemphigoid morphologically identical to those found in bullous pemphigoid provides further support for the concept that the two diseases may represent variants of the same entity.
Idiopathic pustular and bullous variants of Sweet syndrome]	We report on the case of a 62-year-old patient with disseminated pustular plaques affecting especially his face and hands. These lesions exhibited severe blistering later in the course. The diagnosis of an unusual variant of an acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis (Sweet's syndrome) was histologically confirmed. Pustular lesions are known to occur in Sweet's syndrome. Secondary development into bullous lesions, however, has not previously been described. No associated disease has so far been detected.
Cicatricial pemphigoid (benign mucous membrane pemphigoid).	Cicatricial pemphigoid is a chronic mucocutaneous bullous condition. It is a heterogenous autoimmune disease, characterized by the production of autoantibodies against basement membrane zone antigens. The target antigens in cicatricial pemphigoid appear to be lamina lucida proteins involved in human keratinocyte adhesion to extracellular matrix. Cicatricial pemphigoid primarily affects persons older than 40 years and appears to have a 2:1 predilection for women, without racial or geographic bias.
Blister fluid for the diagnosis of subepidermal immunobullous diseases: a comparative study of basement membrane zone autoantibodies detected in blister fluid and serum.	The subepidermal immunobullous diseases bullous pemphigoid (BP), cicatricial pemphigoid (CP), pemphigoid gestationis (PG) and linear IgA disease (LAD) are characterized by circulating and in vivo deposition of antibodies to antigens in the cutaneous basement membrane zone (BMZ). Indirect immunofluorescence (IMF) of serum is a routine diagnostic test to detect circulating BMZ antibodies in these diseases. We have compared the titres of IgG and IgA and their subclasses, also of IgM and IgE BMZ antibodies in serum and aspirated blister fluid in 35 adult patients with subepidermal immunobullous diseases: BP (n = 30), PG (n = 2), CP (n = 1), and LAD (n = 2), by indirect IMF on intact and salt-split skin. The antibody titre in blister fluid was the same or one dilution less than serum in most cases and there was no significant difference between these results (P > 0.05). IgG1 and IgG4 were the predominant subclasses in both blister fluid and serum in BP. Indirect IMF of serum and blister fluid was also carried out on trypsinized epidermal cells in a subgroup of patients with BP (n = 19). Typical polar fluorescence was obtained in all 14 cases which had positive indirect IMF on intact and split skin. Our findings demonstrate that blister fluid can be used as an alternative to serum for indirect IMF in subepidermal immunobullous diseases. This avoids the need for venesection and has a practical application in children and those with poor venous access.
Linear IgA bullous dermatosis with circulating IgG autoantibodies to the 230 kD epidermal antigen.	The patient was a 54-year-old woman with wide-spread bullous lesions on her trunk and oral mucosa. Histologic examination revealed a subepidermal blister with infiltration of neutrophils and eosinophils. Direct immunofluorescence showed an exclusively IgA deposition at the basement membrane zone (BMZ). Indirect immunofluorescence showed that the blister fluid, but not the serum, contained IgG antibodies against the BMZ antigen on the epidermal side of salt-split skin. Using immunoblot analysis with normal human epidermal extracts, both serum and blister fluid reacted with the 230 kD epidermal antigen. Using colloidal gold and direct immunoelectron microscopy, IgA deposition was detected in the lamina lucida. Clinically, the skin lesions responded well to dapsone. We diagnosed this case as linear IgA bullous dermatosis (LABD) with IgG class circulating autoantibodies against the epidermal 230 kD antigen. These antibodies were considered to be secondary to the damage to the epidermal basal keratinocyte in this case.
Diagnosis of oral ulcers.	Ulcers commonly occur in the mouth. Their causes range from minor irritation to malignancies and systemic diseases. Innocent solitary ulcerations, which result from trauma and infections, must be distinguished from squamous cell carcinomas, which also typically present as solitary ulcers. Multiple oral ulcers may be classified as acute, recurrent and/or chronic. The most common causes of rapid-onset oral ulcers include acute necrotizing ulcerative gingivitis, allergies and erythema multiforme. The two common forms of acute (short-term) recurrent oral ulcers, "cold sores" or "fever blisters," which are caused by the herpes simplex virus, and recurrent aphthous ulcers ("canker sores"), may be distinguished largely on the basis of their location. Most types of multiple chronic oral ulcers are associated with disturbances of the immune system. They include erosive lichen planus, mucous membrane pemphigoid and pemphigus vulgaris. Clinical criteria which are most useful in identifying the cause of oral ulcers are vesicles or bullae, which may not be seen because they rupture rapidly in the oral environment; constitutional signs and symptoms; and lesions on the skin and/or other mucosa. In some cases, diagnosis depends upon culture or biopsy, particularly with the application of immunofluorescence to the surgical specimen.
