Mycosis fungoides with mucinosis follicularis in childhood.	Mycosis fungoides is a cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) usually observed in mid to late adulthood. It occurs only rarely during childhood. Follicular mucinosis is a chronic dermatosis involving the sebaceous glands and outer root sheaths. It is normally differentiated into a juvenile benign form and an adult form possibly associated with mycosis fungoides. We report a 12-year-old boy who presented with an 8-month history of erythematous mucinous plaques on the scalp. Three months later, he developed erythematous patches and plaques on his whole body, accompanied by cervical lymphadenopathy. A biopsy showed follicular mucinosis and epidermotropism of the lymphocytic infiltrate. Immunophenotyping and a PCR clonality test were consistent with CTCL. The patient received PUVA treatment and local steroids, resulting in partial remission. Mycosis fungoides should be considered in the differential diagnosis of chronic, scaling dermatoses in childhood. Moreover, follicular mucinosis in childhood can be associated with mycosis fungoides.
hRAD30 mutations in the variant form of xeroderma pigmentosum.	Xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) is an autosomal recessive disease characterized by a high incidence of skin cancers. Yeast RAD30 encodes a DNA polymerase involved in the error-free bypass of ultraviolet (UV) damage. Here it is shown that XP variant (XP-V) cell lines harbor nonsense or frameshift mutations in hRAD30, the human counterpart of yeast RAD30. Of the eight mutations identified, seven would result in a severely truncated hRad30 protein. These results indicate that defects in hRAD30 cause XP-V, and they suggest that error-free replication of UV lesions by hRad30 plays an important role in minimizing the incidence of sunlight-induced skin cancers.
Solar ultraviolet radiation exposure of infants and small children.	Townsville, in Queensland, Australia, experiences very high levels of ambient solar ultraviolet radiation (UVR) throughout the year and has a predominantly white population which is prone to developing skin cancer. The UVR exposure of 1-year-old and 2 1/2-year-old children raised in Townsville was measured using UVR-sensitive polysulphone film badges. In two separate exposure studies undertaken for 7 days in October 1995 and 5 days in April 1997, exposure at the chest and shoulder for each subject was determined. The chest exposures for the 1-year-olds were significantly higher at weekends than on weekdays, whereas for the 2 1/2-year-old children the shoulder exposures were significantly higher at weekends than on weekdays. The median daily total exposure for 1-year-old infants was 0.4 SED (standard erythemal dose) for the chest and 0.4 SED for the shoulder. The median daily total exposure for 2 1/2-year-olds was 0.6 SED for the chest and 0.9 SED for the shoulder. Although the median daily total exposures were comparatively low, the maximum values for the chest and shoulder were 6.5 SED and 2.4 SED, respectively, for the 1-year-old infants, and 20.6 SED and 8.4 SED, respectively, for the 2 1/2-year-olds. While the 2 1/2-year-old children spent most of their time outside between 9 am and 4 pm, the 1-year-old infants spent more time outside before 9 am and after 4 pm. Exposure increases with age in early childhood. Increased mobility and a greater tendency to play outdoors is likely to account for the higher exposure levels in 2 1/2-year-old children, compared to 1-year-old infants.
Association of cutaneous malignant melanoma with intermittent exposure to ultraviolet radiation: results of a case-control study in Ontario, Canada.	Although solar radiation is well established as a risk factor for melanoma, it is less clear how the pattern and timing of exposure to ultraviolet (UV) radiation might be important. The particular objective of this study was to evaluate the association of melanoma risk with various measures of intermittent and chronic exposures to UV radiation, and to assess how these exposures interact with other risk factors such as skin type.
Treatment with UV-B for psoriasis and nonmelanoma skin cancer: a systematic review of the literature.	In a cost-effectiveness study currently being conducted of short-contact anthralin treatment for psoriasis in an outpatient setting as compared with the standard treatment with UV-B radiation, the excess incidence (IDD) of skin cancer due to exposure to UV-B could not be ascertained because the study did not last long enough. A meta-analysis of published data was deemed appropriate.
The health impact of solar radiation and prevention strategies: Report of the Environment Council, American Academy of Dermatology.	It is well recognized that exposure to solar radiation is a major risk factor for the development of skin cancer, photoaged skin, and immune system alterations. However, major questions remain regarding the specific wavelengths and type of exposure that incur risk. The purpose of this article is to critically examine, on the basis of current knowledge, the impact of stratospheric ozone depletions, tanning bed skin cancer risk, the safety of sunscreens as an important element of our solar protection strategies, the wavelengths of solar radiation responsible for melanoma, and the incidence of melanoma. Recommendations are made on prevention strategies and public health messages.
Life history and histopathology of ultraviolet light-induced skin tumors.	The life history and histopathology of UV light-induced skin tumors were studied in NMR rats, outbred female Swiss mice, and Syrian golden hamsters. High intensity UV light of medium wavelengths produced hyperplasia and papillomas, as well as a dysplastic, intermediary solar keratosis-like stage, with distinct cellular atypia leading to several types of squamous cell carcinomas. High doses of UV irradiation of short duration caused scars, which developed into fibromas and fibrosarcomas composed of "light" and "dark" cells. Carcinomas with neoplastic squamous and fibrous components were uncommon; however, collision tumors with two components were occasionally seen. Angiomas and angiosarcomas with a proliferating endothelial structure were observed, but adnexal tumors, with follicular or sebaceous differentiation, and basal cell carcinomas were infrequent. Pigment cell tumors were found only rarely. The number of tumors and tumor-bearing animals at different stages of the experiment were also studied. Tumors were compared with lesions induced by chemical carcinogens in different systems. UV carcinogenesis was characterized by many tumor-bearing animals, but with a low total tumor count and a high mortality, thereby decreasing the number of animals-at-risk. The tumor types, their progression from on type to another, and the distribution of certain biologic characteristics were also analyzed. We concluded that UV irradiation is an effective tumor inducer in animal skin, and the type of tumor, its behavior, and location depend on the experimental conditions.
Mouse models for multistep tumorigenesis.	The mouse is an ideal model system for studying the molecular mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of human cancer. The generation of transgenic and gene-knockout mice has been instrumental in determining the role of major determinants in this process, such as oncogenes and tumor-suppressor genes. In the past few years, modeling cancer in the mouse has increased in its complexity, allowing in vivo dissection of the fundamental concepts underlying cooperative oncogenesis in various tumor types. In this review, we discuss how this transition has been facilitated, providing relevant examples. We also review how, in the post-genome era, novel methodologies will further accelerate the study of multi-step tumorigenesis in the mouse.
Mechanisms of photodamage of the skin and its functional consequences for skin ageing.	Chronic photodamage of the skin manifests itself as extrinsic skin ageing (photoageing) and photocarcinogenesis. DNA photodamage and UV-generated reactive oxygen species are the initial molecular events that lead to most of the typical histological and clinical manifestations of chronic photodamage of the skin. Knowledge of the UV-absorbing chromophores in the skin and of the molecular mechanisms leading to the unwanted effects of sun exposure provide a basis for the development of novel strategies for the prevention and repair of photoageing. This review provides an overview of the photochemistry of the major skin chromophores and their relationship to chronic photodamage.
Lack of promotion of 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene-initiated mouse skin carcinogenesis by 1.5 GHz electromagnetic near fields.	The effects of 1.5 GHz electromagnetic near fields of time division multiple access (TDMA) signal for the Personal Digital Cellular, Japanese cellular telephone standard (PDC) used for cellular phones, on mouse skin carcinogenesis initiated by 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA) were examined. Ten-week-old ICR female mice were treated with a single application of DMBA on shaved dorsal skin by painting at a concentration of 100 microg/100 microl acetone per mouse. One week later, mice were divided into four groups, receiving electromagnetic near fields exposure (DMBA-EMF), sham-exposure (DMBA-Sham), 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA, 4 microg /200 microl acetone/mouse), as a positive control (DMBA-TPA), and no-treatment (DMBA-Control). EMF near fields exposure conditions were as follows: skin local peak specific absorption rate (SAR) 2.0 W/kg, whole body average SAR 0.084 W/kg (ratio of peak to average SAR is 24), 90 min a day, 5 days a week, for 19 weeks. At week 20, animals were killed and skin tumors were analyzed histopathologically. The incidences of skin tumors in DMBA-EMF, DMBA-Sham, DMBA-TPA and DMBA-Control groups were 0/48 (0%), 0/48 (0%), 29/30 (96.6%) and 1/30 (3.3%), respectively. Histopathologically, papilloma and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) were observed in the DMBA-TPA group and only papilloma observed in the DMBA-Control group. The incidences of squamous cell papillomas and squamous cell carcinomas in DMBA-TPA and DMBA-Control groups were 29/30 (96.6%) and 1/30 (3.3%), respectively, numbers of tumors per mouse (tumor multiplicity) being 18.8 +/- 13.4 and 0.1 +/- 0.5. These data clearly demonstrated that near fields exposure to 1.5 GHz EMF, used for cellular phones, does not exert any enhancing effect on skin tumorigenesis initiated by DMBA.
Risk factors for development of de novo neoplasia after liver transplantation.	Liver transplant recipients are at greater risk for de novo neoplasia, especially lymphoma and nonmelanoma skin cancer; however, risk factors for this complication have not been well studied. Clinical and pathological records of 137 consecutive liver transplant recipients who had survived for at least 1 year were reviewed to register de novo neoplasia. Ten variables were analyzed for their association with the development of de novo malignancies by means of a log-rank test and stepwise selection in a multivariate analysis using the Cox proportional hazard model. Thirty de novo neoplasias appeared in 22 of 137 transplant recipients between 12 and 104 months after orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT; median follow-up, 69 months): 14 patients had 21 skin cancers, 6 patients had solid-organ cancer, and 3 patients developed a lymphoproliferative disease. Probabilities of de novo neoplasia were 13% at 5 years post-OLT and 26% at 8 years post-OLT. The only associated risk factor for any neoplasia was age. Age and hepatocarcinoma were independent risk factors associated with skin cancer. That hepatocarcinoma in the explanted liver is an independent risk factor for skin cancer suggests there is individual susceptibility to both neoplasias.
Outdoor activities in childhood: a protective factor for cutaneous melanoma? Results of a case-control study in 271 matched pairs.	A matched case-control study was performed in Munich, Germany, in 1996-97 to evaluate the risk of cutaneous melanoma due to ultraviolet (UV) exposure behaviour in Southern Bavaria, Germany.
Photoprotection by sunscreens.	Ultraviolet (UV) radiation is an etiologic factor for the development of nonmelanoma skin cancers and also possibly melanoma. The American Academy of Dermatology currently recommends the daily use of sunscreens with a sun protection factor (SPF) of 15 or above. The SPF numerical rating is an in vivo, standardized measure of sunscreen efficacy. SPF assessment predominantly reflects the ability of a product to screen UVB radiation. The physical and biologic properties of UVA radiation are relevant as UVA contributes to photoimmunosuppression and photocarcinogenesis. An ideal sunscreen assessment system would address both UVB and UVA protection. However, the SPF rating should continue to serve as the major determinant of sunscreen efficacy.
Vitiligo. Pathogenesis and treatment.	Vitiligo is an acquired skin disorder caused by the disappearance of pigment cells from the epidermis that gives rise to well defined white patches which are often symmetrically distributed. The lack of melanin pigment makes the lesional skin more sensitive to sunburn. Vitiligo can be cosmetically disfiguring and it is a stigmatizing condition, leading to serious psychologic problems in daily life. It occurs worldwide in about 0.5% of the population and it occurs as frequently in males as it does in females. The cause is unknown, but might involve genetic factors, autoimmunity, neurologic factors, toxic metabolites, and lack of melanocyte growth factors. Since a causative (gene) treatment is not (yet) available, current modalities are directed towards stopping progression and to achieving repigmentation in order to repair the morphology and functional deficiencies of the depigmented skin areas. Many treatments have been used for some time; however; there are some new developments: narrowband ultraviolet (UV) B (311 nm) therapy, the combination of corticosteroid cream + UVA therapy, and the transplantation of autologous pigment cells in various modalities. In widespread vitiligo, residual pigment can be removed by depigmentation agents. Sunscreens, camouflage products, and good guidance may help the patient cope better with the disease.
Rapid onset of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma in patients with rheumatoid arthritis after starting tumor necrosis factor alpha receptor IgG1-Fc fusion complex therapy.	Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) is now believed to be a major contributor to the pathogenesis of the synovitis and joint destruction in rheumatoid arthritis. Etanercept is a recombinant human TNF-alpha receptor Fc fusion protein consisting of a dimer of the extracellular portion of two p75 TNF-alpha receptors fused to the Fc portion of human IgG1. Etanercept produces significant dose-dependent improvements in disease activity. We describe 7 patients who experienced 1 or more squamous cell carcinomas that showed rapid growth and arose over a 2- to 4-month period of etanercept therapy. Soluble TNF-alpha receptor therapy through inhibition of a T(H)1 cytokine pattern and inhibition of the direct and indirect cytotoxic effects of TNF-alpha may initially decrease mechanisms for controlling subclinical tumors and may contribute to the histologic features seen within these tumors. However, prolonged TNF-alpha inhibition may have some antitumor effects.
UVB light stimulates production of reactive oxygen species: unexpected role for catalase.	In keratinocytes, UVB light stimulates the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Lysates of these cells were found to possess a non-dialyzable, trypsin- and heat-sensitive material capable of generating ROS in response to UVB light. Using ion exchange, metal affinity, and size exclusion chromatography, a 240-kDa protein was isolated with ROS generating activity. The protein exhibited strong absorption in the 320-360 nm range with additional soret peaks around 400-410 nm, suggesting the presence of heme. Sequencing using liquid chromatography-ion trap mass spectrometry identified the protein as catalase. Using purified catalases from a variety of species, the ROS generating activity was found to be temperature- and O2-dependent, stimulated by inhibitors of the catalatic activity of catalase, including 3-aminotriazole and azide, and inhibited by cyanide. A marked increase in the production of ROS was observed in UVB-treated cells overexpressing catalase and decreased generation of oxidants was found in UVB-treated keratinocytes with reduced levels of catalase. Our data indicate that catalase plays a direct role in generating oxidants in response to UVB light. The finding that catalase mediates the production of ROS following UVB treatment is both novel and highly divergent from the well known antioxidant functions of the enzyme. We hypothesize that, through the actions of catalase, high energy DNA damaging UVB light is absorbed by the enzyme and converted to reactive chemical intermediates that can be detoxified by cellular antioxidant enzymes. Accumulation of excessive ROS, generated through the action of catalase, may lead to oxidative stress, DNA damage, and the development of skin cancer.
Cutaneous granulomas as the first manifestation of Hodgkin's disease.	We report the case of a 64-year-old male in whom fever, cutaneous rash and hepatomegaly were the first manifestations of Hodgkin disease (HD). Histologically a dense lymphohistiocytic infiltrate with a granulomatous pattern was found in the skin infiltrate. A computed tomography scan revealed hepatosplenomegaly and a small retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy. An hepatic percutaneous biopsy showed a granulomatous infiltration with typical Reed-Sternberg cells. Cutaneous manifestations of HD are briefly reviewed. The authors underline that granulomatous infiltration of the skin as the first manifestation of lymphoma is a very rare feature. We also discuss the possible pathogenic mechanisms of skin granulomas.
Sun habits in kidney transplant recipients with skin cancer: a case-control study of possible causative factors.	Organ transplant recipients are frequently affected by skin cancer, which might also be a major cause of long-term mortality. Excessive sun exposure is considered to be a factor in the aetiology, but uncertainty about the importance of this and other proposed risk factors remains. The purpose of this study was to investigate sun behaviour before and/or after the transplantation in kidney transplant recipients with or without cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma. A nested, population-based, case-control study was carried out on 95 kidney transplant recipients who had contracted cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma after the transplantation and on an accurately matched control population of 154 kidney transplanted patients. Information on sun exposure before and after the transplantation, skin type, use of sunbeds, warts, etc., was obtained from a questionnaire which contained 38 detailed questions. The differences between cases and control subjects were not significant for sun exposure before or after the transplantation, sun protective measures, number of sunburns, outdoor occupation, smoking habits or use of sunbeds. Compared to patients with skin type IV, the cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma odds ratio was 3.0 (95% CI = 1.3-7.0) for skin type I + II. Patients with light blond or red hair colour also had a higher odds ratio than those with dark hair, 3.2 (95% CI = 1.2-8.2), and patients with warts after the transplantation had a higher odds ratio than those without, 2.2 (95% CI = 1.2-4.2). In conclusion, poor tanning ability rather than the amount of sun exposure is associated with the development of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma in kidney transplant recipients and warts appearing after the transplantation indicate increased risk.
Synchronous basal cell carcinoma and meningioma following cranial irradiation for a pilocytic astrocytoma.	We report a case of synchronous radiation-induced meningioma and basal cell carcinoma in a 48-year-old man who presented to the plastic surgeons with a fixed scalp lesion sited over a craniotomy scar. Synchronous radiation-induced tumours are a rare occurrence.
UV-induced skin damage.	Solar radiation induces acute and chronic reactions in human and animal skin. Chronic repeated exposures are the primary cause of benign and malignant skin tumors, including malignant melanoma. Among types of solar radiation, ultraviolet B (290-320 nm) radiation is highly mutagenic and carcinogenic in animal experiments compared to ultraviolet A (320-400 nm) radiation. Epidemiological studies suggest that solar UV radiation is responsible for skin tumor development via gene mutations and immunosuppression, and possibly for photoaging. In this review, recent understanding of DNA damage caused by direct UV radiation and by indirect stress via reactive oxygen species (ROS) and DNA repair mechanisms, particularly nucleotide excision repair of human cells, are discussed. In addition, mutations induced by solar UV radiation in p53, ras and patched genes of non-melanoma skin cancer cells, and the role of ROS as both a promoter in UV-carcinogenesis and an inducer of UV-apoptosis, are described based primarily on the findings reported during the last decade. Furthermore, the effect of UV on immunological reaction in the skin is discussed. Finally, possible prevention of UV-induced skin cancer by feeding or topical use of antioxidants, such as polyphenols, vitamin C, and vitamin E, is discussed.
Inactivating E2f1 reverts apoptosis resistance and cancer sensitivity in Trp53-deficient mice.	The E2f1 transcription factor, which regulates genes required for S-phase entry, also induces apoptosis by transcriptional and post-translational mechanisms. As E2f1 is inducible by DNA damage we investigated its importance in vivo in ultraviolet (UV)-induced apoptosis, a protective mechanism that prevents the epidermis from accumulating UV-induced mutations. Contrary to expectation, E2f1-/- mice demonstrated enhanced keratinocyte apoptosis after UVB exposure, whereas apoptosis was suppressed by epidermis-specific overexpression of human E2F1. Apoptosis induced by -radiation was also repressed by E2f1. E2f1-/-;Trp53-/- double knockout mice exhibited the elevated UVB-induced apoptosis of E2f1-/- alone, rather than the profound apoptosis defect seen in Trp53-/- mice, indicating that Trp53 (p53) lies functionally upstream of E2f1. Transfecting E2F1 into E2f1-/-;Trp53-/- primary fibroblasts suppressed UVB-induced apoptosis and this suppression was relieved by Trp53. The double knockout also reverted the abnormal sex ratio and early-onset tumours of Trp53-/- mice. These results imply that E2f1 functions as a suppressor of an apoptosis pathway that is initiated by DNA photoproducts and perhaps genetic abnormalities; p53 relieves this suppression.
Non-ionizing electromagnetic radiations, emitted by a cellular phone, modify cutaneous blood flow.	Our surroundings are full of non-ionizing electromagnetic radiation (EMR) of different frequency and power. The non-ionizing EMRs emitted by television, computer and cellular phone (CF) sets have been increasing over the past few years.
Posttransplant CD30+ anaplastic large cell lymphoma with skin and lymph node involvement.	Posttransplant (i.e. status with the transplant present) lymphoproliferative disorders (PTLD) are common conditions in transplant recipients. Most examples are of B cell origin, and CD30+ T cell PTLD are very rare. We report a CD30+ anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL) in the skin of the right lower leg and in draining lymph nodes of the right inguinal region in an immunosuppressed 59-year-old male who had received a renal graft 9 years previously. Unlike the vast majority of PTLD, an incomplete T cell immunophenotype was observed, and there was evidence of T cell lineage at the genetic level reflected by a rearranged T cell receptor gamma gene. The neoplastic cells were non-reactive to the anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) 1 protein. In addition, Epstein-Barr virus and human herpesvirus 8 sequences were absent. Arguments against a primary cutaneous ALCL, which is also ALK-1 negative, include systemic presentation at the time of initial diagnosis and immunoreactivity of the neoplastic cells to epithelial membrane antigen. Typically, our rare example of a posttransplantation systemic ALCL showed an aggressive behaviour and a poor response to both chemotherapy and local irradiation.
Practical and experimental consideration of sun protection in dermatology.	Much is known regarding the deleterious effects of ultraviolet radiation (UV) on the skin. As more epidemiologic and basic research continues to characterize the impact of sun exposure and other sources of UV radiation upon the development of cutaneous neoplasm and a variety of photosensitive dermatoses, it is crucial for the dermatologist to promote sun protection among his/her patients as well as the primary care physician who has a greater reach of the community than the skin specialist. Practical steps to achieve optimal sun protection include avoidance of UV radiation, avoidance of photosensitizing drugs, use of photo-protective clothing, and diligent application of broad-spectrum sunscreens. In recent years, novel agents and experimental modalities with the potential to offer enhanced protective effects against deleterious sequelae of sun exposure have been elucidated, e.g. antioxidants, alpha-MSH, polyphenol in green teas, genistein, NF-kB decoy oligodeoxynucleotides, pTpT vaccination, and IL-12. As these new photo-protective tools are being developed by scientists around the world, greater concerted effort is needed to engage public health officials and the media to promote sun protection awareness throughout the general public.
A skin cancer education initiative at a professional baseball game and results of a skin cancer survey.	It is important to develop an understanding of what the public knows about skin cancer and what sun safety precautions they are taking. Research on the evaluation of skin cancer education targeting adults is minimal.
Non-AIDS-related malignancies: prognostic and treatment]	Malignant tumors currently rank among the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in patients infected with HIV. The survival is increased for patients who benefits from better control of viral replication and from progress in prevention of opportunistic infections. These patients are thus exposed to an increased risk of cancer. The most frequent malignant tumors not associated with AIDS stage are Hodgkin disease, germ-cell tumors, cutaneous cancer, head and neck cancer and lung cancer. The goal of this chapter is to describe the clinical and histological pattern of these malignant tumors, and to propose therapeutic guidelines for HIV patients with cancer.
Neoplastic seeding complicating percutaneous ethanol injection for treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma.	The authors describe a case of subcutaneous neoplastic seeding in the abdominal wall in a 67-year-old man with posthepatitic liver cirrhosis complicated by a single nodule of well-differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma. He was treated with percutaneous ethanol injection (PEI) performed under ultrasound guidance. The neoplastic seeding developed along the needle track used to carry out fine-needle biopsy and PEI and was diagnosed 6 months after the beginning of treatment.
Skin cancer after renal transplantation: the causal role of azathioprine.	In 167 unselected patients with renal allografts, after a lag of 3.5 years the prevalence of dysplastic keratotic lesions increased linearly by 6.8%/yr and number of lesions also increased. There was no relationship to sun exposure or skin type. Malignancies occurred in 5 patients after 9 years. Viral warts occurred in 42% but prevalence and extent were not related to time after transplantation or keratoses. Comparison with other drugs and diseases suggests malignant keratoses are initiated in two stages by the cytotoxic effect of azathioprine, the role of immunosuppression remaining unproved. Psoriasis and eczema remitted and the prevalence of zoster and fungal disease increased. P. orbiculare (but not P. ovale) infection increased, unlike in other states of immunosuppression, suggesting the organisms are distinct, not transitional, and differently influenced by the different immunodeficient states induced by drugs and disease.
Regional distribution of melanocytic naevi in relation to sun exposure, and site-specific counts predicting total number of naevi.	The role of exposure to ultraviolet light in the formation of melanocytic naevi was analysed by investigating the regional naevus distribution in 310 subjects (30-50 years) from a Swedish census file. The lateral aspect of the arms and the back had the largest concentration of naevi. The mean naevus count per unit surface area was higher in intermittently exposed than in rarely exposed skin (p less than 0.001), while the lowest mean count was found in chronically exposed skin. These results support the idea that intermittent exposure to ultraviolet light has a "naevogenic" effect while chronic exposure might be protective. Dysplastic naevi had a distribution pattern quite different from common naevi. Considering the distribution pattern solely, dysplastic naevi seem to develop independently of exposure to ultraviolet light. The numbers of naevi in different skin areas were tested for their power in predicting the total body naevus count. The strongest correlations were found between total counts and counts on the anterior surface of the thighs and the lateral aspect of the arms. Counts from any of these areas will provide a practical and satisfactory estimate of the total number of naevi.
Neurotropic malignant melanoma occurring in a stable burn scar.	Malignant melanoma occurring in burn scars is extremely rare. Nine cases are reported in the literature. We report a case of a small malignant melanoma arising in a stable thermal burn scar after a long latent period of 58 years. The case was unique in that it was of the de novo neurotropic variant. Fascicles of amelanotic, S100 protein-positive atypical spindle cells with neuroid appearance infiltrated deeply in the scarred dermis and perineural spaces. The pigmentation of the lesion was due to solar lentigo instead of atypical melanocytic proliferation in the overlying epidermis.
Verrucous carcinoma of the foot from chronic pressure ulcer.	This is a case report with literature review.
The basal layer in human squamous tumors harbors more UVA than UVB fingerprint mutations: a role for UVA in human skin carcinogenesis.	We hypothesized that a substantial portion of the mutagenic alterations produced in the basal layer of human skin by sunlight are induced by wavelengths in the UVA range. Using laser capture microdissection we examined separately basal and suprabasal keratinocytes from human skin squamous cell carcinomas and premalignant solar keratosis for both UVA- and UVB-induced adduct formation and signature mutations. We found that UVA fingerprint mutations were detectable in human skin squamous cell carcinomas and solar keratosis, mostly in the basal germinative layer, which contrasted with a predominantly suprabasal localization of UVB fingerprint mutations in these lesions. The epidermal layer bias was confirmed by immunohistochemical analyses with a superficial localization of cyclobutane thymine dimers contrasting with the localization of 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanine adducts to the basal epithelial layers. If unrepaired, these adducts may lead to fixed genomic mutations. The basal location of UVA-rather than UVB-induced DNA damage suggests that longer-wavelength UVR is an important carcinogen in the stem cell compartment of the skin. Given the traditional emphasis on UVB, these results may have profound implications for future public health initiatives for skin cancer prevention.
Reconnaissance study of sunbed use by primary school children in Lanarkshire.	The aim of this study was to swiftly gain insight into anecdotal evidence that primary school children in local schools were using sunbeds.
Tumor necrosis factor receptor 1-mediated signaling is required for skin cancer development induced by NF-kappaB inhibition.	NF-kappaB signaling plays an important role in skin development and epidermal growth control. Moreover, inhibition of NF-kappaB signaling in murine epidermal keratinocytes in vivo, by expression of a keratin 5 (K5)-directed superrepressor form of inhibitor of NF-kappaB (IkappaBalpha), results in an inflammatory response characterized by a massive dermal infiltration of neutrophils, epidermal hyperplasia, and a rapid development of aneuploid squamous cell carcinomas (SCC). We now show that by crossing K5-IkappaBalpha mice onto a tumor necrosis factor receptor 1(Tnfr1)-null background, both the inflammatory and the tumorigenic responses are blocked. The specificity of the block is illustrated by the fact that K5-IkappaBalpha mice lacking the IL-1 receptor type 1 (Il1r1) develop inflammation and squamous cell carcinomas. Reconstitution of lethally irradiated K5-IkappaBalpha/Tnfr1(-/-) mice with Tnfr1(+/-) bone-marrow does not induce the inflammatory or the tumorigenic phenotype, indicating a critical dependence on Tnfr1-mediated signaling in skin cells or nonimmune cells. Our results suggest a critical role of local Tnfr1-mediated signaling and associated inflammatory response cooperating with repressed keratinocyte NF-kappaB signaling in driving skin cancer development.
Recent advances in melanoma biology.	The incidence and mortality rates of melanoma have increased at annual rates of 2%-3% for the last 30 years. Disseminated disease is largely refractory to cytotoxic chemotherapy and is almost universally fatal. Several recent advances in melanoma biology offer new strategies for potentially treating this aggressive malignancy. This review focuses on three significant advances involving tumor initiation, etiology, and progression. New experimental models reveal a direct role for UV-B light in initiating melanomas in human skin. Studies on E- and N-cadherin elucidate the importance of local homeostatic mechanisms in regulating tumor progression. Finally, several discoveries concerning apoptotic mechanisms in melanoma suggest strategies for future treatments.
Prescription of phototherapy in psoriasis]	Two types of phototherapy are used in the treatment of psoriasis. UVB phototherapy (so called TL01 excluding the most erythematogenic UVB) has acquired a position next to puvatherapy (associating co-administration of a psoralen either by oral intake or bath, with exposure to UVA) of which the efficacy has been clearly established for a long time. The use of UVB TL01 phototherapy presents less constraint but doesn't seem to be as efficient as puvatherapy in the more severe forms. The results of these two phototherapies are amplified by the addition of adjuvant treatments, in particular with the association of the oral intake of acitretin. The long-term risk of phototherapy is the induction of cutaneous cancers, essentially spinocellular carcinomas; this risk, qualified and quantified for puva, remains less clear for TL01; it imposes the need for a precise count of the number of sessions received and a prolonged follow-up of patients having received numerous phototherapy treatments. The indication for phototherapy is an extensive flare-up of psoriasis in its common form. Therapeutic rotation, during successions of flare-ups or when the phototherapy capital has been consumed, can be done with a retinoid or methotrexate, conversely it has to be much more careful with cyclosporin due to the increase of the carcinogenic risk.
Multiple malignant melanomas at different burn scar areas: a case report.	Malignant changes in burn scars occasionally develop, the majority being squamous cell carcinoma. Malignant melanomas (MMs) arising in burn scars occur rarely.
INK4a-ARF mutations in skin carcinomas from UV irradiated hairless mice.	To characterize further the role of the INK4a-ARF locus in the multistep process of skin carcinogenesis, we performed a mutational analysis of this locus in skin lesions from hairless mice either irradiated with UVB alone or with a solar simulator delivering UVA + B. INK4a-ARF mutations were present in five of 57 squamous cell carcinomas (9%), but no mutation was detected in precancerous lesions. All mutations were C:G > T:A transitions located at dipyrimidic sites, the hallmark of UVB mutagenesis. Three mutations affected only the p19(ARF) reading frame, whereas two mutations affected only the p16(INK4a) transcript. This study demonstrates for the first time UV-induced mutations of INK4a-ARF that occur in a small percentage in late stages skin tumors.
Absence of BRAF mutations in UV-protected mucosal melanomas.	Mutations in BRAF have recently been identified in a significant percentage of primary and metastatic cutaneous malignant melanomas. As ultraviolet (UV) exposure may play a role in the development of cutaneous melanoma lesions with BRAF mutations, BRAF mutation frequency in melanomas arising in sites protected from sun exposure may be lower than those from sun-exposed areas. Thus, we determined the BRAF mutation frequency in a panel of 13 mucosal melanomas and compared those data with data from all currently published series of cutaneous melanomas.
Skin.	Human skin provides a barrier between the host and the physical, chemical, and biological environment. It is also a potential portal of entry for hazardous or infectious agents and a potential target of environmental toxins. Cutaneous vulnerability may take on many forms in the embryo, infant, child, and adolescent. Teratogenic agents may occasionally target skin, as appreciated in the proposed association of the antithyroid medication methimazole, with the congenital malformation known as aplasia cutis congenita. Percutaneous absorption of topically applied substances and the potential for resultant drug toxicities are important considerations in the child. Many topical agents have been associated with systemic toxicity, including alcohol, hexachlorophene, iodine-containing compounds, eutectic mixture of local anesthetics, and lindane. Percutaneous toxicity is of greatest concern in the premature infant, in whom immaturity of the epidermal permeability barrier results in disproportionately increased absorption. Immature drug metabolism capabilities may further contribute to the increased risk in this population. Ultraviolet (UV) radiation exposure, which increases an individual's risk of cutaneous carcinogenesis, may be a particularly significant risk factor when it occurs during childhood. The "critical period hypothesis" suggests that UV exposure early in life increases the risk of eventual development of malignant melanoma. Other risk factors for malignant melanoma may include severe sunburns during childhood, intense intermittent UV exposure, and increased susceptibility of pediatric melanocytes to UV-induced DNA damage. Last, percutaneous exposure to environmental toxins and chemicals, such as insecticides and polychlorinated biphenyls, may differ between children and adults for several reasons, including behavioral patterns, anatomic and physiologic variations, and developmental differences of vital organs.
Sun protection attitudes and behaviors of solid-organ transplant recipients.	Solid-organ transplant recipients (OTRs) with sun-sensitive skin, a history of sun exposure, and clinical signs of photoaging have an increased risk of developing squamous cell carcinoma.
Immunosuppressants and skin cancer in transplant patients: focus on rapamycin.	The responsibility of immunosuppressants for the increased risk of skin cancers in organ transplant recipients is widely recognized. Discerning the role of each drug is complicated owing to the fact that most patients generally have combinations of several medications.
Histologic features in primary cutaneous squamous cell carcinomas in immunocompromised patients focusing on organ transplant patients.	In organ transplant recipients (OTR) there is an increased incidence of cutaneous squamous cell carcinomas (CSCC), and they may be aggressive.
Systemic and topical retinoids in the management of skin cancer in organ transplant recipients.	Nonmelanoma skin cancers are the most frequent malignancies in organ transplant patients. Patients who develop multiple new skin cancers may benefit from retinoid chemoprevention.
Effect of acitretin on wound healing in organ transplant recipients.	Systemic retinoids possess significant benefits in cutaneous malignancy chemoprevention; however, retinoids have been associated with excessive granulation tissue and hypertrophic scarring.
Maintenance versus reduction of immunosuppression in renal transplant recipients with aggressive squamous cell carcinoma.	There has been a significant increase in skin cancers in transplant patients in recent years. Transplant recipients are also more likely to develop skin cancers that are locally invasive with the potential to metastasize early.
Radio-induced malignancies of the scalp about 98 patients with 150 lesions and literature review.	- The induction of malignant diseases is one of the most concerning late effects of ionizing radiation. The topic of this study deals with skin tumors developed in the irradiated areas in children given X-ray therapy for tinea capitis.
Post-traumatic cutaneous meningioma.	Cutaneous meningiomas are extremely rare tumours and their diagnosis is difficult. We describe the case of a patient who developed a paranasal swelling after head trauma and associated fractures in the same region years before. Histopathological examination of an incisional biopsy revealed the diagnosis of cutaneous meningioma. After one and a half years' follow up, surgical excision was performed because of progressive growth of the tumour and associated aesthetic problems. Extracranial meningiomas can develop probably secondary to trapping of meningeal tissue after trauma. If there is no intracranial connection surgical removal can be considered.
Previous injuries or scars as risk factors for the development of basal cell carcinoma.	Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is the most common malignant tumour in humans and most occur in elderly people. The pathogenesis of BCC is directly related to exposure to ultraviolet radiation in sunlight, but trauma is also mentioned occasionally. As well as one published series, several single cases have been reported. Our aim in the present study was to assess any possible relation between the development of BCC and trauma in a series of 92 patients, 12 of whom (13%) gave a history of previous injury. These lesions either developed directly after a sharp or blunt injury or in the scar tissue that had resulted from previous surgical incisions, burns, or dog bites. The male:female ratio was higher in the injured group (10:2) than in the uninjured group (44:36), but not significantly so (p = 0.11). Morphoea-like basal cell carcinomas were more common in the injured group (n = 91) (p = 0.06). We conclude that trauma might be considered as another aetiological agent for BCC.
Topical tazarotene chemoprevention reduces Basal cell carcinoma number and size in Ptch1+/- mice exposed to ultraviolet or ionizing radiation.	Oral retinoids can reduce basal cell carcinoma (BCC) incidence in genetically susceptible patients, and one topical retinoid, tazarotene, has been reported to cure some sporadic BCCs. Therefore, we have tested whether this agent would affect BCCs in Ptch1+/- mice in a controlled chemoprevention trial. We found that topical tazarotene dramatically inhibits the formation of BCCs induced with either UV or ionizing radiation. The ability of tazarotene to inhibit BCC formation in this mouse model provides encouragement for the use of tazarotene in skin cancer chemoprevention trials in humans.
Cutaneous manifestations of human immunodeficiency virus infection in Taiwan.	Cutaneous manifestations are common and often the presenting feature of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, but a comprehensive study of HIV-associated skin lesions is not available in Taiwan. We reviewed all skin lesions in all HIV patients diagnosed in our department between 1990 and 1998 to document the spectrum of skin manifestations, the frequency of each disorder, and their relationship with CD4 counts. A total of 64 HIV patients were studied, including 38 with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) (CD4 < 200 x 10(6) cells/L) and 26 who had not developed AIDS (non-AIDS). There were 142 episodes of skin conditions representing 25 different skin diseases, including oral candidiasis (15% in non-AIDS vs 71% in AIDS patients), drug eruptions, herpes simplex, seborrheic dermatitis, dermatophytosis, herpes zoster, secondary syphilis, condyloma acuminatum, Kaposi's sarcoma (16% among AIDS patients), hairy leukoplakia, and molluscum contagiosum (13% among AIDS patients), in decreasing order. Several unusual cases are briefly described, including verrucous herpes infection, condyloma-like molluscum contagiosum, and AIDS-associated pigmented erythroderma. In our study, 70% of all HIV patients had skin diseases, with an average of 2.2 conditions per patient (3.2 in AIDS patients vs 0.7 in non-AIDS patients; p < 0.001). A broad spectrum of HIV-associated skin diseases was observed in our series. The frequency of HIV-associated skin disease was 92% in AIDS patients and 39% in non-AIDS patients; 78% of skin lesions in AIDS patients were diagnosed when CD4 counts were below 100 x 10(6) cells/L.
Myths and misconceptions: the risk of melanoma in small congenital nevi.	A 2-year-old boy presents with a 4 x 3-cm, darkly pigmented nevus on his back. His mother states that this lesion has been present since birth. Both parents noticed that the nevus has become slightly larger but deny any other changes in its appearance. The boy is otherwise healthy. He has no allergies and does not take any medication. There is no family history of skin disease or cutaneous malignancy. The parents are concerned about the melanoma risk in their child's congenital nevus.
Extracellular matrix receptors and mouse skin carcinogenesis: altered expression linked to appearance of early markers of tumor progression.	Interaction of cells with the basement membrane is important for cell proliferation and differentiation. Disruption of the basement membrane is an early event during progression of benign tumors to cancer. Using the techniques of immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence, we show that cell-matrix interactions via the cell surface integrin receptors alpha 3 beta 1, alpha 5 beta 1, alpha 6 beta 4, the Mr 67,000 laminin receptor (67LR) laminin-binding protein, and the secreted matrix protein laminin are strictly regulated during differentiation of mouse epidermis. While alpha 6 beta 4 and alpha 5 beta 1 are polarized to the basal surface of basal cells in contact with the basement membrane, alpha 3 beta 1 and the non-integrin 67LR are primarily detected in the cell periphery of suprabasal cells, where cell to cell contacts are found. Sequential changes in expression of matrix receptors occur following multistage carcinogenesis of mouse skin. In an analysis of benign and malignant skin tumors induced by chemical carcinogens or oncogene transduction, we found that alpha 3 beta 1 and alpha 5 beta 1 as well as the non-integrin 67LR are sequentially down-regulated in the progression from benign to malignant, while alpha 6 beta 4 is the predominant receptor expressed in the carcinomas. Tumor expression of alpha 6 beta 4 is not polarized and is dissociated from its colocalized normal partner bullous pemphigoid antigen, which remains restricted to the basement membrane. The changes in matrix receptors are linked to appearance of keratin 13 in suprabasal regions, but always in alpha 6 beta 4 negative cells. The predominance of alpha 6 beta 4 in the proliferating cells during progression is associated with decreased expression of keratin 13 in carcinomas. These results suggest that matrix interactions with its receptors are important determinants of ordered differentiation in normal skin and show characteristic alterations during carcinogenesis that parallel changes in differentiation of the tumors.
Protein kinase C epsilon signals ultraviolet light-induced cutaneous damage and development of squamous cell carcinoma possibly through Induction of specific cytokines in a paracrine mechanism.	Protein kinase C (PKC), a family of phospholipid-dependent serine/threonine kinases, is not only the major intracellular receptor for the mouse skin tumor promoter 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) but also is activated by a variety of stress factors including ultraviolet radiation (UVR). PKCepsilon is among six isoforms (alpha, delta, epsilon, eta, mu and zeta) expressed in the mouse skin. To determine the in vivo functional specificity of PKCepsilon in mouse skin carcinogenesis, we generated PKCepsilon transgenic mouse (FVB/N) lines 224 and 215 that overexpress PKCepsilon protein approximately 8- and 18-fold, respectively, over endogenous levels in the basal epidermal cells and cells of the hair follicle. PKCepsilon transgenic mice were observed to be highly sensitive to the development of papilloma-independent metastatic squamous cell carcinoma (mSCC) elicited either by repeated exposure to UVR or by the 7,12-Dimethylbenzanthracene-TPA tumor promotion protocol. The development of squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) appears to be linked to the PKCepsilon-mediated induction of cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha(TNFalpha). Immunohistochemical analysis for the expression of PKCepsilon in the SCC of PKCepsilon transgenic mice revealed that PKCepsilon was not expressed in the tumor itself; however, the uninvolved tissue surrounding the SCC exhibited intense PKCepsilon expression. Also, human SCC, similar to mouse SCC, did not express PKCepsilon in the tumor, whereas the surrounding uninvolved epidermis revealed strong PKCepsilon expression. These findings in both the PKCepsilon mouse model and human SCC indicate that overexpression of PKCepsilon in epidermis may lead to a microenvironment, which is suitable for enhancing the development of mSCC by a paracrine mechanism involving specific cytokines including TNFalpha.
UVB-induced apoptosis drives clonal expansion during skin tumor development.	The mechanism by which a single mutant cell clonally expands is usually assumed to involve an additional mutation in a cell cycle regulatory gene. An alternative mechanism for driving clonal expansion is apoptosis, which might create vacant stem cell compartments that can be repopulated by mutant cells. This model predicts that in a mouse with reduced apoptotic capacity (i) more mutated cells will appear initially but (ii) these cells will expand into clones more slowly than in wild-type animals. To test this hypothesis for ultraviolet B (UVB)-induced skin carcinogenesis, we examined UVB-induced p53 mutant clones and tumors in a transgenic (Tg) mouse (K14-Survivin) with skin-specific expression of the apoptosis inhibitor Survivin. To limit the effects of Survivin on apoptosis, without affecting epidermal proliferation or differentiation, we used Survivin expression levels and UVB doses that resulted in a 2-fold reduction in keratinocyte apoptosis. After 5 weeks of chronic UVB irradiation, newly created p53 mutant keratinocyte clones (indicative of initial mutation frequency) were 1.4-fold more frequent in K14-Survivin mice (P = 4 x 10(-6)). As predicted, this effect was reversed for clones growing by clonal expansion, which were rarer in Tg skin by 1.7-fold (P = 0.047). At 10 weeks large expanding Tg clones were rarer by a magnitude approaching the apoptosis differential (approximately 2-fold, P = 4 x 10(-5)). Survivin expression also retarded clonal expansion at later stages of tumor development. By 20 weeks 95% of animals carried tumors (primarily papillomas), which were 1.6-fold rarer in apoptosis-defective Tg mice (P = 0.03). In contrast, the rate of tumors attaining large size (> or =3 mm, P = 0.048) and converting to carcinoma was increased approximately 2-fold in Tg mice. Thus, Survivin-regulated apoptosis appears to suppress two stages that involve new mutations, initiation and malignant conversion, yet drives clonal expansion of existing p53 mutant cells.
Insight into the pathogenesis of sporadic basal cell carcinoma.	Sporadic basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is the commonest human cancer. Although its aggressiveness is low and metastatic potential negligible, the increasing incidence of the tumor in the Western world drives attention to its pathogenesis. In 1996, germ-line mutations in the patched receptor of the Sonic hedgehog (Shh) signaling pathway were described in the Gorlin-Goltz syndrome in association with multiple nevoid BCCs. Later, the aberrant activation of the Shh was identified in sporadic BCCs as well. Recently, the role of other tumor suppressors and DNA repair gene mutations and their relationship with UV radiation-induced DNA damage have been elucidated.
Vitamin D and skin cancer.	Skin cancer is the most common cancer afflicting humans. These cancers include melanomas and 2 types of malignant keratinocytes: basal-cell carcinomas (BCC) and squamous-cell carcinomas (SCC). UV light exposure is linked to the incidence of these cancers. On the other hand, the skin is the major source of vitamin D-3 (cholecalciferol) and UV light is critical for its formation. Keratinocytes can convert vitamin D-3 to its hormonal form, 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D(3) [1,25(OH)(2)D(3)] (calcitriol). 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) in turn stimulates the differentiation of keratinocytes, raising the hope that 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) may prevent the development of malignancies in these cells. We identified a number of mechanisms by which 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) regulates the differentiation of keratinocytes and explored where this regulation breaks down in SCCs. 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) regulates gene expression by activating the vitamin D receptor (VDR). When activated, the VDR binds to one of two coactivator complexes: DRIP or p160/SRC. Binding to DRIP occurs in the undifferentiated keratinocyte, but, as the cell differentiates, DRIP(205) levels fall and p160/SRC binding takes over as SRC3 expression increases. SCCs fail to respond to the prodifferentiating actions of 1,25(OH)(2)D(3). These cells have normal levels of VDR and normal binding of VDR to vitamin D response elements. However, they overexpress DRIP(205) such that the p160/SRC complex is blocked from binding to VDR. We hypothesize that failure of 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) to induce differentiation in SCCs lies at least in part with its failure to induce the replacement of the DRIP complex with the SRC complex in the promoters of genes required for differentiation.
Impaired processing of DNA photoproducts and ultraviolet hypermutability with loss of p16INK4a or p19ARF.	Reduced DNA repair has been linked to an increased risk of cutaneous malignant melanoma, but insights into the molecular mechanisms of that link are scarce. The INK4a/ARF (CDKN2a) locus, which codes for the p16(INK4a) and p19ARF proteins, is often mutated in sporadic and familial malignant melanoma, but it has not been directly associated with reduced DNA repair. We transfected unirradiated mouse fibroblast cells with UV-treated DNA to measure DNA repair in normal, p16INK4a mutant, p19ARF mutant, or double mutant mouse host cells. Loss of either p16(INK4a) or p19ARF reduced the ability of the cells to process UV-induced DNA damage, independent of cell cycle effects incurred by the loss. These results may further explain why INK4a/ARF mutations predispose to malignant melanoma, a UV-induced tumor.
An unusual cutaneous lesion as the presenting sign of spinal dysraphism in a preterm infant.	We present a preterm female infant with an unusual vascular nevus on the lumbosacral and gluteal regions. Our clinical diagnosis was probable twin nevus, with a blanched nevus adjacent to a telangiectatic nevus, later complicated by ulceration. Ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging of the lumbosacral region revealed that her conus medullaris level was at L4 and the spinal cord was tethered by an intraspinal lipoma, without evidence of a hemangioma. We could not find any literature reporting the association of twin nevus with spinal dysraphism.
Maternal/female caregiver influences on adolescent indoor tanning.	To identify aspects of maternal/female caregiver (MFC) influences on adolescents' indoor tanning, including modeling, cognitions (MFC knowledge and attitudes about indoor tanning), and gatekeeping/monitoring (MFC permissiveness and concern) of indoor tanning.
Chronic stress accelerates ultraviolet-induced cutaneous carcinogenesis.	Physical and emotional stressors have been found to mediate a wide variety of biological changes including the facilitation of tumor progression; however most of these paradigms utilized artificial sources of neoplasms and stress.
Susceptibility to basal cell carcinoma: associations with PTCH polymorphisms.	Loss of function of the human patched gene (PTCH) is common and critical in basal cell carcinoma (BCC) development. Indirect evidence suggests polymorphism in PTCH mediates BCC risk. We studied 659 BCC cases and 300 controls to determine if exon 2(318), 3(429), 11(1552), 12(1665), 12(1686), 14(2199) and 23(3944) and intron 9(1336-135) and 15(2560+9)PTCH variants were sufficiently common for use in case-control studies, and if selected markers were associated with risk. Intron 15(2560+9) and exon 23(3944) variants were studied further. Their genotype frequencies were not significantly different in controls and cases, though frequency of the G(2560+9)-C(3944) haplotype was lower in all cases (odds ratio=0.44, p=0.009) and those stratified by BCC site and rate of development of further tumours. This association was not mediated by the extent of UVR exposure. We confirmed the robustness of these findings by showing these associations demonstrated similar odds ratios in two groups of randomly selected cases and controls, and using the false positive report probability (FPRP) approach described by Wacholder et al. (2004). The FPRP value (0.168) was in the noteworthy category. These data, showing for the first time that PTCH polymorphism mediates susceptibility, are compatible with reports showing that PTCH haploinsufficiency influences development of BCC precursor lesions.
Melanoma arising in a skin graft.	Cutaneous melanoma remains an ongoing public health threat, and the cornerstone of management continues to be early diagnosis and treatment. Unfortunately, primary melanomas may have atypical presentations, making early diagnosis difficult and causing significant treatment delays. In this report, an unusual case is presented in which a patient experienced the synchronous development of a melanoma in situ within a skin graft donor site and an invasive melanoma within the recipient skin graft site. This exceptional presentation of cutaneous melanoma is discussed to highlight key principles of skin grafting in relation to the management of malignant melanoma.
Indoor tanning by adolescents: prevalence, practices and policies.	Despite known acute and chronic health effects from the use of indoor tanning, including the potential for all forms of skin cancer, the practice is popular in the United States (US) and Europe. A review of the scientific literature that examines adolescents and indoor tanning use was undertaken, summarising what is known about prevalence and practices among adolescents, characteristics associated with adolescent use, and policies that regulate adolescent access to indoor tanning facilities. The prevalence of indoor tanning is consistently found to be higher among girls than boys and to increase with age in both Europe and the US. An examination of other demographic characteristics, skin cancer risk factors, knowledge, attitudes and social factors points to higher prevalence of the behaviour among adolescents with positive attitudes towards tans and whose friends or parents also tan indoors. Adolescent access to indoor tanning is rarely regulated in the US or Europe, and where regulations exist, business compliance is low. In addition, businesses actively market their product to adolescents as they organise to limit further regulations prohibiting adolescent access. Pricing, licensure, advertising restrictions and media campaigns, in combination with adolescent-targeted interventions, are possible strategies that could be tested for their effectiveness to reduce adolescent indoor tanning use. Harm reduction policies, such as eye protection, that reduce risk for adolescents who choose to tan indoors, are also important.
Meta-analysis of risk factors for cutaneous melanoma: I. Common and atypical naevi.	A systematic meta-analysis of observational studies of melanoma and one of the most important risk factors, the number of naevi, was conducted in order to clarify aspects of the aetiology of this disease. Following a systematic literature search, relative risks (RRs) were extracted from 46 studies published before September 2002. Dose-response random effects models were used to obtain pooled estimates. Sub-group analysis and meta-regression were carried out to explore sources of between-study variation and bias. Sensitivity analyses investigated the reliability of the results and any publication bias. Number of common naevi was confirmed an important risk factor with a substantially increased risk associated with the presence of 101-120 naevi compared with <15 (pooled Relative Risk (RR) = 6.89; 95% Confidential Interval (CI): 4.63, 10.25) as was the number of atypical naevi (RR = 6.36 95%; CI: 3.80, 10.33; for 5 versus 0). The type of study and source of cases and controls were two study characteristics that significantly influenced the estimates. Case-control studies, in particular when the hospital was the source for cases or controls, appeared to present much lower and more precise estimates than cohort studies.
Meta-analysis of risk factors for cutaneous melanoma: II. Sun exposure.	A systematic revision of the literature was conducted in order to undertake a comprehensive meta-analysis of all published observational studies on melanoma. An extensive analysis of the inconsistencies and variability in the estimates was performed to provide some clues about its Epidemiology. Following a systematic literature search, relative risks (RRs) for sun exposure were extracted from 57 studies published before September 2002. Intermittent sun exposure and sunburn history were shown to play considerable roles as risk factors for melanoma, whereas a high occupational sun exposure seemed to be inversely associated to melanoma. The country of study and adjustment of the estimates adjuste for phenotype and photo-type were significantly associated with the variability of the intermittent sun exposure estimates (P = 0.024, 0.003 and 0.030, respectively). For chronic sun exposure, inclusion of controls with dermatological diseases and latitude resulted in significantly different data (P = 0.05 and 0.031, respectively). Latitude was also shown to be important (P = 0.031) for a history of sunburn; studies conducted at higher latitudes presented higher risks for a history of sunburns. Role of country, inclusion of controls with dermatological diseases and other study features seemed to suggest that "well conducted" studies supported the intermittent sun exposure hypothesis: a positive association for intermittent sun exposure and an inverse association with a high continuous pattern of sun exposure.
Modulation of light-induced skin tumors by N-acetylcysteine and/or ascorbic acid in hairless mice.	The light emitted by halogen quartz bulbs contains a broad spectrum of UV wavelengths, is strongly genotoxic and is a potent inducer of skin tumors in hairless mice. By using a UVC filter, this light mimics solar radiation and induces a variety of genomic and transcriptional alterations in mouse skin. UV-related carcinogenesis involves depletion of antioxidants and glutathione in skin cells. On this basis, we evaluated modulation of carcinogenicity of UVC-filtered halogen lamps in SKH-1 hairless mice by the antioxidants N-acetyl-l-cysteine (NAC) and ascorbic acid (AsA). Both agents were given in the drinking water, either individually or in combination. The earliest skin lesions were detected after 300 days' exposure to light and became confluent in a number of mice after 480 days. NAC administration prolonged the latency time by 90 days. Moreover, NAC considerably and significantly decreased both incidence and multiplicity of light-induced skin tumors, prevented the occurrence of malignant lesions (squamocellular carcinomas) and reduced the tumor size. In contrast, AsA, which may behave as a prooxidant rather than an antioxidant, increased the multiplicity of total skin tumors, carcinomas in situ and squamocellular carcinomas. Co-administration of NAC with AsA significantly attenuated the negative effect of AsA, presumably due to the ability of this thiol to maintain a reduced environment. Therefore, in agreement with our previous in vitro findings, oral NAC is able to attenuate the detrimental effects of AsA.
Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin and coal tar creosote exposure in a railroad worker.	A 50-year-old male railroad worker presented to his primary care physician with an erythematous, tender skin lesion on the right knee; a biopsy of this lesion revealed squamous cell carcinoma in situ. The site of the lesion was sun-protected but had been associated with 30 years of creosote-soaked clothing. In this article, we review dermal and other malignancies associated with creosote, along with creosote occupational exposures and exposure limits. This is a unique case, given the lack of other, potentially confounding, polyaromatic hydrocarbons and the sun-protected location of the lesion.
Ultraviolet-induced transformation of keratinocytes: possible involvement of long interspersed element-1 reverse transcriptase.	The normal human keratinocyte cell line, HaCaT, was transformed using multiple doses of ultraviolet (UV)A+B (UVA, 150-200 mJ/cm(2) and UVB, 15-20 mJ/cm(2) x 6). Malignant transformation was confirmed by upregulation of Cyclin D1 (mRNA) and formation of colonies on soft agar. To identify the genes involved in this transformation process, we have done rapid amplification of polymorphic DNA using RNA from unexposed and multiple-exposed cells. Six percent PAGE showed several differentially regulated genes in exposed cells compared with unexposed cells. Total 19 genes were identified, cloned and sequenced. Three of these 19 cloned genes showed 99% homology at both DNA and protein levels to a stretch of 540 bp (180 aa) of long interspersed element (LINE)-1 reverse transcriptase (RT) open reading frame (ORF-2). Colonies from soft agar showed upregulation of this gene compared with non-colonized (lawn on soft agar) cells as detected by RT-PCR. This data implicates LINE-1 RT (ORF-2) in UV-induced malignancy and can possibly be used as a marker for the diagnosis of UV-induced skin cancer.
Tissue homeostasis and the control of the neoplastic phenotype in epithelial cancers.	Neoplastic cells at various stages of tumor progression may remain dormant for many years. The suppression of the neoplastic phenotype and tumor outgrowth depends on close contact of neoplastic cells with surrounding normal cells. This review examines the nature of these contacts primarily in models for skin cancer induction. Junctional complexes, membrane associated growth factors and their receptors, and paracrine mechanisms likely contribute to this state of tumor cell dormancy. Understanding these mechanisms will be important in primary cancer prevention and for counteracting recurrences in cancer survivors.
Acitretin and skin cancer in kidney transplanted patients. Clinical and histological evaluation and immunohistochemical analysis of lymphocytes, natural killer cells and Langerhans' cells in sun exposed and sun protected skin.	Renal transplanted recipients have an increased incidence of actinic keratosis and skin cancer.
Epstein-Barr virus- and human herpesvirus 8-associated primary cutaneous plasmablastic lymphoma in the setting of renal transplantation.	Plasmablastic lymphoma (PBL) is a recently recognized entity most often reported in the oral cavity, mainly in the setting of underlying human immunodeficiency viral infection whereby a role for Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and more recently human herpesvirus 8 (HHV8) has been described. Although EBV has been implicated in a variety of lymphoproliferative lesions, until recently HHV8 has only been associated with primary effusion lymphoma, multicentric Castleman's disease, and Kaposi's sarcoma. We describe a case of PBL occurring in the setting of renal transplantation.
Basal cell carcinoma: from host response and polymorphic variants to tumour suppressor genes.	The molecular factors and events that characterize susceptibility and outcome in cutaneous basal cell carcinoma (BCC) have been the focus of much research interest. As a result, we are beginning to understand the complex relationships between exposure to ultraviolet radiation (UVR), host response and the resulting damage to key genes that characterize these tumours. In this review, we will focus on genetic factors that influence susceptibility and outcome. While the search for susceptibility genes has generally resulted in the identification of low penetrance allelic variants, studies on modifier genes influencing outcome variables such as tumour number, age of onset and tumour subtype have identified factors with higher potential impact. Here we will briefly describe some recent work on the genetic basis of the immune response to UVR, the effect of UVR on the generation of reactive oxygen species and their detoxification, and the role of onco- and tumour suppressor genes. Areas for further research are highlighted, together with a consideration of possible applications in clinical practice.
Skin cancer: lights on genome lesions.	Sunlight generates skin damage mainly by inducing DNA lesions in epidermal cells. The recent development of transgenic mice expressing specific photolyases has identified cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers as the major player in ultraviolet-induced damage, including skin cancer.
Powerful skin cancer protection by a CPD-photolyase transgene.	The high and steadily increasing incidence of ultraviolet-B (UV-B)-induced skin cancer is a problem recognized worldwide. UV introduces different types of damage into the DNA, notably cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers (CPDs) and (6-4) photoproducts (6-4PPs). If unrepaired, these photolesions can give rise to cell death, mutation induction, and onset of carcinogenic events, but the relative contribution of CPDs and 6-4PPs to these biological consequences of UV exposure is hardly known. Because placental mammals have undergone an evolutionary loss of photolyases, repair enzymes that directly split CPDs and 6-4PPs into the respective monomers in a light-dependent and lesion-specific manner, they can only repair UV-induced DNA damage by the elaborate nucleotide excision repair pathway.
The concurrent presence of systemic disease pathogens and cutaneous Kaposi's sarcoma in the same lesion: Histoplasma capsulatum and Kaposi's sarcoma coexisting in a single skin lesion in a patient with AIDS.	the concurrent presence of infectious organisms within cutaneous lesions of Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) in persons with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) has been demonstrated. We report the first patient with AIDS in whom both KS and Histoplasma capsulatum were documented within the same cutaneous lesion. Pathogenic organisms of other fungal, mycobacterial, and viral diseases in KS lesions in other patients seropositive for human immunodeficiency virus are reviewed. Possible explanations for the coexistence of a focus of infection within a lesion of KS are discussed. It may be that in some patients the infection acts as a stimulus to induce vascular proliferation and subsequent development of sarcoma. There is also support for the idea of organism seeding in vascular tissues in the course of dissemination of infection. It is important to rule out the presence of coexistent infections or more than one pathologic process in skin lesions in patients with AIDS.
An eruptive vascular proliferation resembling acquired tufted angioma in the recipient of a liver transplant.	A 59-year-old man developed grouped erythematous papules on the skin of the right axilla and arm shortly after orthotopic liver transplantation. Histologic changes closely resembled those of acquired tufted angioma, with capillary lobules studding the dermis. The lesions spontaneously involuted over several months. Histopathologic and immunohistochemical findings excluded Kaposi's sarcoma and bacillary angiomatosis, the two vascular proliferations most frequently seen in the immunocompromised host. We believe that our case is one of acquired tufted angioma appearing as an eruptive condition similar to eruptive pyogenic granuloma, to which it seems closely related. The involution of lesions in this case is unexplained.
Epithelioid hemangioendothelioma associated with reflex sympathetic dystrophy.	A patient with long-standing reflex sympathetic dystrophy of the foot developed an aggressive epithelioid hemangioendothelioma of the involved extremity. The tumor metastasized to a regional lymph node and later to the lungs. The features of epithelioid hemangioendothelioma and reflex sympathetic dystrophy are reviewed.
Basal cell nevus syndrome.	Basal cell nevus syndrome (BCNS), is a hereditary condition transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait exhibiting high penetrance and variable expressivity. Inherited or spontaneous mutations in the human homologue of the Drosophila patched gene underlie the disorder and in addition to tumor predisposition, are associated with a range of 'patterning' defects. Recent advances, with glimpses of possible therapies are emerging, but because of the wide-ranging nature of phenotypic expression and overlap with other syndromes, there is difficulty. Finally, because of the importance of PTCH and paralogous genes in many species other than humans, reports appear in a correspondingly wide range of journals, which makes 'keeping abreast' difficult.
Low incidence of malignancy after transplantation in Chinese heart allograft recipients.	This study sought to assess the incidence of neoplastic disease after transplantation in Chinese heart allograft recipients. A total of 156 patients (130 male and 26 female; mean age, 45.8 +/- 15.7 years), surviving more than 30 days after transplantation, were enrolled in this study. The mean follow up duration was 51.2 +/- 33.0 months. Six patients (3.8%) developed neoplastic diseases after transplantation: post-transplant lymphoproliferative diseases in four and solid tumors in two patients. There was no skin cancer or Kaposi's sarcoma. Solid tumors affected the prostate, liver and urinary bladder in two patients. The cumulative incidence of neoplastic disease was 2.1% at 1 year, 3.6% at 5 years, and 10.1% at 10 years after transplantation. The incidence of post-transplant neoplastic disease was low in Chinese heart allograft recipients. It resulted from a relative paucity of Kaposi's sarcoma and skin cancers in Chinese population.
Regulation of ultraviolet B radiation-mediated activation of AP1 signaling by retinoids in primary keratinocytes.	The main cause of skin cancer and photo-aging is chronic exposure to ultraviolet B (UVB) radiation. Such damage can be ameliorated by retinoid treatment. UVB-radiation-induced skin carcinogenesis is associated with the induction of activator protein 1 (AP1) signaling and factors, namely FOS and JUN family members. We investigated the effects of several retinoids, all-trans-retinoic acid (tRA), 9-cis-retinoic acid (cRA), and N-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-retinamide (HPR), on UVB-induced damage in primary mouse keratinocytes. In addition, the interplay between UVB radiation, retinoid receptors, and AP1 signaling was assessed using Western blot analysis and ribonuclease protection and gene reporter assays. Exposure of keratinocytes to UVB radiation caused a down-regulation of the retinoid receptor protein levels in a proteasome-mediated manner. In contrast, FOS and JUN proteins were transiently induced shortly after exposure to UVB radiation. Retinoid treatment caused a dose-dependent reduction in the levels of retinoid receptor proteins. When irradiated cells were treated with retinoids, no significant effects on AP1 protein expression were noted. Interestingly, pretreatments with tRA and cRA, but not HPR, suppressed UVB-radiation-induced AP1 activity by more than 50%, whereas post-treatment failed to produce similar effects. Our findings indicate that the inhibition of AP1 activity by retinoids explains, at least in part, the chemopreventive potential of retinoids in UV-radiation-associated epidermal damage.
Osteoma cutis as a presenting sign of pseudohypoparathyroidism.	Four unrelated children with osteoma cutis and Albright hereditary osteodystrophy (pseudohypoparathyroidism and pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism) are described. All four patients were normocalcemic when they were first seen with cutaneous ossification. A diagnosis of Albright hereditary osteodystrophy was established on the basis of associated somatic features, radiographic abnormalities, and family history. Progression to pseudohypoparathyroidism was documented in two children who developed hypocalcemia at 2 and 3 years of age, respectively. Early recognition of the skin manifestations of this syndrome and careful follow-up are important to prevent the deleterious effects of hypocalcemia. Osteoma cutis is a common sign of Albright hereditary osteodystrophy in infancy and childhood, and its significance should not be overlooked, even in the normocalcemic patient.
The North Queensland "Sun-Safe Clothing" study: design and baseline results of a randomized trial to determine the effectiveness of sun-protective clothing in preventing melanocytic nevi.	In 1999, the authors began recruitment for a randomized controlled intervention trial aimed at preventing melanocytic nevi (moles) by minimizing sun exposure through the use of sun-protective clothing. The study involves 652 Caucasian children (75.6% response) aged 0-35 months from 25 child-care centers (n = 13 intervention and n = 12 control) living in the high-solar-irradiance environment of Townsville, Queensland, Australia. Children attending intervention centers wear investigator-provided garments made from fabrics with ultraviolet protection factors rated very good to excellent. Control centers continue to offer usual care. Three-year follow-up of all children will be completed in 2005. The main outcome measure is the number of new melanocytic nevi. At baseline, the two groups were similar with respect to nevi, phenotype, age, demographic characteristics, sun-protection habits, and history of sun exposure, except that more children from control versus intervention centers (2% and 0%, respectively; p = 0.006) had experienced painful sunburn with blistering. Higher melanocytic nevus counts were associated with more time spent outdoors and a history of sunburn, while sunscreen use, particularly during the mild winter months, appeared to have a protective effect. These findings further substantiate the hypothesis that nevus development in young children is related to sun exposure.
Mutations induced by ultraviolet light.	The different ultraviolet (UV) wavelength components, UVA (320-400 nm), UVB (280-320 nm), and UVC (200-280 nm), have distinct mutagenic properties. A hallmark of UVC and UVB mutagenesis is the high frequency of transition mutations at dipyrimidine sequences containing cytosine. In human skin cancers, about 35% of all mutations in the p53 gene are transitions at dipyrimidines within the sequence 5'-TCG and 5'-CCG, and these are localized at several mutational hotspots. Since 5'-CG sequences are methylated along the p53 coding sequence in human cells, these mutations may be derived from sunlight-induced pyrimidine dimers forming at sequences that contain 5-methylcytosine. Cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers (CPDs) form preferentially at dipyrimidines containing 5-methylcytosine when cells are irradiated with UVB or sunlight. In order to define the contribution of 5-methylcytosine to sunlight-induced mutations, the lacI and cII transgenes in mouse fibroblasts were used as mutational targets. After 254 nm UVC irradiation, only 6-9% of the base substitutions were at dipyrimidines containing 5-methylcytosine. However, 24-32% of the solar light-induced mutations were at dipyrimidines that contain 5-methylcytosine and most of these mutations were transitions. Thus, CPDs forming preferentially at dipyrimidines with 5-methylcytosine are responsible for a considerable fraction of the mutations induced by sunlight in mammalian cells. Using mouse cell lines harboring photoproduct-specific photolyases and mutational reporter genes, we showed that CPDs (rather than 6-4 photoproducts or other lesions) are responsible for the great majority of UVB-induced mutations. An important component of UVB mutagenesis is the deamination of cytosine and 5-methylcytosine within CPDs. The mutational specificity of long-wave UVA (340-400 nm) is distinct from that of the shorter wavelength UV and is characterized mainly by G to T transversions presumably arising through mechanisms involving oxidized DNA bases. We also discuss the role of DNA damage-tolerant DNA polymerases in UV lesion bypass and mutagenesis.
Dose-dependent effects of UVB-induced skin carcinogenesis in hairless p53 knockout mice.	Exposure to (solar) UVB radiation gives rise to mutations in the p53 tumor suppressor gene that appear to contribute to the earliest steps in the molecular cascade towards human and murine skin cancer. To examine in more detail the role of p53, we studied UVB-induced carcinogenesis in hairless p53 knock-out mice. The early onset of lymphomas as well as early wasting of mice interfered with the development of skin tumors in p53 null-mice. The induction of skin tumors in the hairless p53+/- mice was accomplished by daily exposure to two different UV-doses of approximately 450 J/m2 and 900 J/m2 from F40 lamps corresponding to a fraction of about 0.4 and 0.8 of the minimal edemal dose. Marked differences in skin carcinogenesis were observed between the p53+/- mice and their wild type littermates. Firstly, at 900 J/m2, tumors developed significantly faster in the heterozygotes than in wild types, whereas at 450 J/m2 there was hardly any difference, suggesting that only at higher damage levels loss of one functional p53 allele is important. Secondly, a large portion (25%) of skin tumors in the heterozygotes were of a more malignant, poorly differentiated variety of squamous cell carcinomas, i.e. spindle cell carcinomas, a tumor type that was rarely observed in daily UV exposed wild type hairless mice. Thirdly, the p53 mutation spectrum in skin tumors in heterozygotes is quite different from that in wild types. Together these results support the notion that a point mutation in the p53 gene impacts skin carcinogenesis quite differently than allelic loss: the former is generally selected for in early stages of skin tumors in wild type mice, whereas the latter enhances tumor development only at high exposure levels (where apoptosis becomes more prevalent) and appears to increase progression (to a higher grade of malignancy) of skin tumors.
Cellular and molecular events leading to the development of skin cancer.	The transition from a normal cell to a neoplastic cell is a complex process and involves both genetic and epigenetic changes. The process of carcinogenesis begins when the DNA is damaged, which then leads to a cascade of events leading to the development of a tumor. Ultraviolet (UV) radiation causes DNA damage, inflammation, erythema, sunburn, immunosuppression, photoaging, gene mutations, and skin cancer. Upon DNA damage, the p53 tumor suppressor protein undergoes phosphorylation and translocation to the nucleus and aids in DNA repair or causes apoptosis. Excessive UV exposure overwhelms DNA repair mechanisms leading to induction of p53 mutations and loss of Fas-FasL interaction. Keratinocytes carrying p53 mutations acquire a growth advantage by virtue of their increased resistance to apoptosis. Thus, resistance to cell death is a key event in photocarcinogenesis and conversely, elimination of cells containing excessive UV-induced DNA damage is a key step in protecting against skin cancer development. Apoptosis-resistant keratinocytes undergo clonal expansion that eventually leads to formation of actinic keratoses and squamous cell carcinomas. In this article, we will review some of the cellular and molecular mechanisms involved in initiation and progression of UV-induced skin cancer.
Inflammation, gene mutation and photoimmunosuppression in response to UVR-induced oxidative damage contributes to photocarcinogenesis.	Ultraviolet (UV) radiation causes inflammation, gene mutation and immunosuppression in the skin. These biological changes are responsible for photocarcinogenesis. UV radiation in sunlight is divided into two wavebands, UVB and UVA, both of which contribute to these biological changes, and therefore probably to skin cancer in humans and animal models. Oxidative damage caused by UV contributes to inflammation, gene mutation and immunosuppression. This article reviews evidence for the hypothesis that UV oxidative damage to these processes contributes to photocarcinogenesis. UVA makes a larger impact on oxidative stress in the skin than UVB by inducing reactive oxygen and nitrogen species which damage DNA, protein and lipids and which also lead to NAD+ depletion, and therefore energy loss from the cell. Lipid peroxidation induces prostaglandin production that in association with UV-induced nitric oxide production causes inflammation. Inflammation drives benign human solar keratosis (SK) to undergo malignant conversion into squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) probably because the inflammatory cells produce reactive oxygen species, thus increasing oxidative damage to DNA and the immune system. Reactive oxygen or nitrogen appears to cause the increase in mutational burden as SK progress into SCC in humans. UVA is particularly important in causing immunosuppression in both humans and mice, and UV lipid peroxidation induced prostaglandin production and UV activation of nitric oxide synthase is important mediators of this event. Other immunosuppressive events are likely to be initiated by UV oxidative stress. Antioxidants have also been shown to reduce photocarcinogenesis. While most of this evidence comes from studies in mice, there is supporting evidence in humans that UV-induced oxidative damage contributes to inflammation, gene mutation and immunosuppression. Available evidence implicates oxidative damage as an important contributor to sunlight-induced carcinogenesis in humans.
Melanogenesis: a photoprotective response to DNA damage?	Exposure to ultra violet radiation (UVR) is associated with significant long-term deleterious effects such as skin cancer. A well-recognised short-term consequence of UVR is increased skin pigmentation. Pigmentation, whether constitutive or facultative, has widely been viewed as photoprotective, largely because darkly pigmented skin is at a lower risk of photocarcinogenesis than fair skin. Research is increasingly suggesting that the relationship between pigmentation and photoprotection may be far more complex than previously assumed. For example, photoprotection against erythema and DNA damage has been shown to be independent of level of induced pigmentation in human white skin types. Growing evidence now suggests that UVR induced DNA photodamage, and its repair is one of the signals that stimulates melanogenesis and studies suggest that repeated exposure in skin type IV results in faster DNA repair in comparison to skin type II. These findings suggest that tanning may be a measure of inducible DNA repair capacity, and it is this rather than pigment per se which results in the lower incidence skin cancer observed in darker skinned individuals. This evokes the notion that epidermal pigmentation may in fact be the mammalian equivalent of a bacterial SOS response. Skin colour is one of most conspicuous ways in which humans vary yet the function of melanin remains controversial. Greater understanding of the role of pigmentation in skin is vital if one is to be able to give accurate advice to the general public about both the population at risk of skin carcinogenesis and also public perceptions of a tan as being healthy.
Skin carcinoma arising from donor cells in a kidney transplant recipient.	The incidence of skin cancer is increased in transplant recipients. UV radiation, papillomaviruses, and immunosuppression participate in the pathogenesis of these tumors. In addition, donor cells may leave the grafted organ, reach peripheral tissues and either induce immune phenomena or possibly take part in tissue remodeling. Herein, we investigated the possible involvement of donor cells in the development of skin tumors in kidney allograft recipients. We analyzed a series of 48 malignant and benign cutaneous tumors developing in 14 females who had been grafted with a male kidney. The number of male cells was measured on microdissected material by quantitative PCR for Y chromosome. In the samples with high levels of male cells, fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) with X and Y probes and/or immuno-FISH with anticytokeratin antibodies were carried out. Male cells were detected in 5/15 squamous cell carcinomas and Bowen disease (range 4-180 copies), 3/5 basal cell carcinomas (91-645), 6/11 actinic keratosis (7-102), 2/4 keratoacanthoma (22-41), and 2/5 benign cutaneous lesions (14-55). In a basal cell carcinoma specimen with a high number of male cells, FISH showed that most cells within the tumoral buds were XY. In this lesion, immuno-FISH showed the presence of XY cytokeratin-positive cells indicating that the tumor nests contained male keratinocytes. In contrast, in other female transplants, male cells present in the tumors were not epithelial. In conclusion, stem cells originating from a grafted kidney may migrate to the skin, differentiate, or fuse as keratinocytes that could, rarely, undergo cancer transformation.
Silibinin up-regulates DNA-protein kinase-dependent p53 activation to enhance UVB-induced apoptosis in mouse epithelial JB6 cells.	In the present study, we employed a well established JB6 mouse epithelial cell model to define the molecular mechanism of efficacy of a naturally occurring flavonoid silibinin against ultraviolet B (UVB)-induced skin tumorigenesis. UVB exposure of cells caused a moderate phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and Akt and a stronger phosphorylation of p53 at Ser(15), which was enhanced markedly by silibinin pretreatment. Kinase activity of ERK1/2 for Elk-1 and Akt for glycogen synthase kinase-3beta was also potently enhanced by silibinin pretreatment. Furthermore, silibinin increased the UVB-induced level of cleaved caspase 3 as well as apoptotic cells. Based on these observations, next we investigated the role of upstream kinases, ATM/ATR and DNA-PK, which act as sensors for UVB-induced DNA damage and transduce signals leading to DNA repair or apoptosis. Whereas UVB strongly activated ATM as observed by Ser(1981) phosphorylation, it was not affected by silibinin pretreatment. However, pretreatment of cells with the DNA-protein kinase (PK) inhibitor LY294002 strongly reversed silibinin-enhanced Akt-Ser(473) and p53-Ser(15) as well as ERK1/2 phosphorylation together with a dose-dependent decrease in cleaved caspase 3 and apoptosis (p < 0.05). In addition, silibinin pretreatment strongly enhanced H2A.X-Ser(139) phosphorylation and DNA-PK-associated kinase activity as well as the physical interaction of p53 with DNA-PK; pretreatment of cells with LY294002 but not caffeine abolished the silibinin-caused increase in both DNA-PK activation and p53-Ser(15) phosphorylations. Together, these findings suggest that silibinin preferentially activates the DNA-PK-p53 pathway for apoptosis in response to UVB-induced DNA damage, and that this could be a predominant mechanism of silibinin efficacy against UVB-induced skin cancer.
Combined subcarcinogenic benzo[a]pyrene and UVA synergistically caused high tumor incidence and mutations in H-ras gene, but not p53, in SKH-1 hairless mouse skin.	Combined subcarcinogenic doses of benzo[a]pyrene (BaP) and UVA induced H-ras, but not p53, gene mutations 8 weeks before tumor emergence in SKH-1 mice. Neither UVA (40 kJ/m2) nor BaP (8 nmol) induced any tumors after mice were topically treated 3 times/week for 25 weeks. However, combined BaP-UVA treatment synergistically increased tumor incidence and multiplicity. All tumors induced by BaP-UVA were malignant. The epidermis was collected from mice treated for 2, 6 and 10 weeks. DNA from UVB- (0.3 kJ/m2) or BaP-UVA-(8 nmol and 40 kJ/m2-induced tumors was isolated and screened for H-ras and p53 mutations. Four types of point mutation, GGC-->GAC, GCC, GTC and CGC, occurred in UVB-induced tumors at H-ras codon 13; and one type of point mutation, GGA-->GAA, at codon 12. Treatment with either BaP alone or BaP-UVA for 10 weeks caused GGA-->GAA mutation at codon 12 or GGC-->GAC mutation at codon 13 in nontumor skin, respectively, as well as in tumors induced by BaP-UVA. All of the 10-week samples treated with either BaP or BaP-UVA showed detectable mutations at codons 12 and 13, but the genetic load was significantly higher in BaP-UVA-treated mice than in those exposed only to BaP. UVA alone induced mutations at codon 12 in only one-third of samples. G-->A mutations induced by BaP or BaP-UVA at position 38 of codon 13 have not been reported previously. C-->T transitions were detected in p53 hot spots of exon 8 in 2 of 19 BaP-UVA-induced tumors but were not found in nontumor skin.
The effects of topical and oral L-selenomethionine on pigmentation and skin cancer induced by ultraviolet irradiation.	This study was conducted to determine whether oral and/or topical selenium (Se) supplementation can reduce the incidence of acute and/or chronic damage to the skin (i.e., sunburn and pigmentation and/or skin cancer, respectively) induced by ultraviolet (UV) irradiation in mice. Groups of 38 BALB:c female mice or 16 Skh:2 hairless pigmented mice were treated with 1) lotion vehicle, 2) 0.02% L-selenomethionine (SeMet) lotion, or 3) vehicle and 1.5 ppm SeMet in the drinking water. Within each group, 30 BALB:c mice or 12 Skh:2 mice were given UV irradiation (Westinghouse FS 40 bulbs) three times per week in doses of 0.575 and 0.24 J/cm2, respectively. The animals' weights and food intakes and the Se concentrations of skin and liver were measured. Skin biopsies were taken from the backs and abdomens of all animals to evaluate the relative amounts of Se and the damage by UV irradiation. Skin pigmentation was scored, and the total number of clinically detectable skin tumors per animal was counted weekly. Results showed that the skin Se concentrations in areas of application of the lotion containing SeMet were greater than those of animals given comparable oral doses, while the Se concentrations of untreated skin and liver were similar to those of animals receiving oral Se. Mice treated with Se showed no signs of toxicity and had significantly less skin damage by UV irradiation, as indicated by reduced inflammation and pigmentation and by later onset and lesser incidence of skin cancer.
Subcutaneous seeding after percutaneous ethanol injection of liver metastasis.	A 72-year-old cirrhotic woman underwent percutaneous ethanol injection treatment of a liver metastasis of unknown origin. A subcutaneous metastasis developed at the site of the punctures. Needle track seeding is a rare complication of fine-needle biopsy but has never--to the authors' knowledge--been reported after percutaneous ethanol injection. The possible causes of this complication are discussed.
AIDS-associated Kaposi's sarcoma and the mechanisms of interferon alpha's activity; a riddle within a puzzle.	As yet, the pathogenesis of Kaposi's sarcoma in the context of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) is not completely understood; this is also true for the mechanisms of action of interferon-alpha against this tumour. The present review focuses on recent developments that may provide some further insight into these issues. These include the angiogenesis of the tumour and the possible role of growth factors, such as the HIV-transactivating (tat) gene product and interleukin-6, the possible meaning of immunomodulating activities of interferon-alpha, such as the rise in the number of CD4+ cells and the increase in beta 2-microglobulin serum concentrations in patients whose tumours respond to treatment, and the observed association between interferon's antiretroviral activity and tumour responses.
Assessment of sun sensitivity by questionnaire: validity of items and formulation of a prediction rule.	Sun sensitivity is a major risk factor for melanoma, basal cell carcinoma, and squamous cell carcinoma of the skin. Several variables have been used in epidemiologic studies to measure sun sensitivity. The present study assesses their validity and combines them to form a prediction rule for an objective measure of sun sensitivity, the minimal erythema dose of ultraviolet B radiation required to produce visibility reddened skin (MED). Participants were 116 patients with psoriasis presenting for phototherapy who completed a sun sensitivity questionnaire. Of the 14 questionnaire items evaluated, 10 were associated with the MED beyond expectation based on chance. The closest association was with the skin type (of Fitzpatrick), a 4-point scale based on historical ability to tan and susceptibility to sunburn. Color of untanned skin and hair were also independent predictors, and were included in the final prediction rule, which correlated 0.55 with MED. Combining items yields a more accurate predictor of sun sensitivity than any one or two individual response variables, and hence may be preferable for epidemiologic studies.
Analysis of p53 tumor suppressor gene, H-ras protooncogene and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) in squamous cell carcinomas of HRA/Skh mice following exposure to 8-methoxypsoralen (8-MOP) and UVA radiation (PUVA therapy).	Treatment with 8-methoxypsoralen (8-MOP) and ultraviolet radiation (primarily UVA), called PUVA therapy, has been used to treat different chronic skin diseases but led to a significant increased risk for skin cancer. The National Toxicology Program (NTP) performed a study in mice treated with PUVA that showed a significant increase in squamous cell carcinomas of the skin. In the present study, we evaluated the protein expression of p53 and PCNA and DNA mutations of p53 and H-ras genes in both hyperplastic and neoplastic squamous cell lesions from the NTP study. By immunohistochemical staining, protein expression of both p53 and PCNA was detected in 3/16 (19%) of hyperplastic lesions and 14/17 (82%) of SCCs in groups treated with both 8-MOP and UVA. The mutation frequency of p53 in SCCs from mice administered 8-MOP plus UVA was 15/17 (88%) with a predominant distribution of mutations in exon 6 (14/15 - 93%). No H-ras mutations were detected in the hyperplastic lesions/tumors. The mutagenic effect of PUVA on the p53 tumor suppressor gene may lead to a conformational modification and inactivation of the p53 protein, which are considered critical steps in PUVA-induced skin carcinogenesis. The p53 mutational frequency and patterns from our study were different from those reported in human PUVA-type tumors.
From sun to earth]	Sun emits a vast array of electromagnetic radiations. After a long but fast journey, the spectrum of visible and ultraviolet light, and infrared radiations reaches the furthermost boundaries of the Earth. Only a fraction of them reaches the biosphere. Photogeoclimatology primarily depends on this energy and is modulated by the latitude, soil relief, seasons and nycthemeral cycle.
Gaia, light and the biosphere]	Some aspects of life are tightly bound to light exposure. Photosynthesis, chronobiology and various manifestations of the socio-cultural behaviour are typical examples.
Skin cancer and sunlight]	Most of the cutaneous carcinomas and melanomas are photo-induced cancers. By contrast, some cutaneous lymphomas are inhibited by light exposure. The annual incidence of photo-induced cancers is steadily on the rise.
Solaria compliance in an unregulated environment: the Australian experience.	This study aimed to explore compliance with international recommendations on solaria use in a unregulated setting. Simulated customers visited 176 solaria operating in Australia and two face-to-face visits and one telephone contact were made for each establishment. From the survey, establishments compliant with the recommendations ranged from: 1.1% refusing access to the customer with skin type I; 9.7% recommending to the customer with skin type I against solaria use and up to 87.5% assessing skin type and recommending eye protection. Few (15.9%) were compliant with more than 10 of the 13 recommendations. Establishment type and number of sunbeds were significantly associated with compliance. This study has shown that a much higher level of compliance with recommendations, particularly those excluding higher-risk groups, is required to reduce the harm associated with use of solaria. While new legislation may be useful, other harm minimisation strategies including mandatory staff training and taxation should be considered.
Basal cell and squamous cell carcinoma and Kaposi's sarcoma.	The mortality rate of nonmelanoma skin cancer is higher than generally considered. An actual nonmelanoma skin cancer is a risk factor not only for other skin cancers but also for cancers in other organs. The recurrence rate can, according to the method of calculation, yield surprisingly diverging results. Statistical mapping of subclinical tumor growth in basal cell carcinoma supplies the margins for tumor-free excision. An even better but more expensive tool for therapy planning is tumor imaging with magnetic resonance imaging. Psoralen plus ultraviolet light of the A wavelength-treated patients run a dose-dependent risk of developing squamous cell carcinoma of the skin but also cancers in other organs. Human papilloma virus-16 seems not to be associated with squamous cell carcinoma of the skin except for the anogenital region and possibly the finger. The finding of retroviruslike particles in endemic non-acquired immunodeficiency syndrome Kaposi's sarcoma strongly suggests that a virus other than human immunodeficiency virus may play a role in the pathogenesis of this disease.
Human herpesvirus type 6 and type 1 infection increases susceptibility to nonmelanoma skin tumors.	In order to investigate herpesvirus (HHV) role in the susceptibility to skin cancer, we compared HHV6 and HHV1 incidence in DNA samples extracted from 120 lesions and 41 normal skin tissues. HHV6 (31.7%) and HHV1 (23.8%) were detected more frequently in skin cancer than in control individuals (14.6 and 5%, respectively) (P=0.0391 and P=0.00094, respectively). The risk of presenting basal cell carcinomas (BCC) was more than 3 times higher for HHV-6 infected patients (OR=3.182; 95% CI: 1.125-8.997). The risk for HHV-1 infected individuals of presenting BCC and squamous cell carcinomas was increased 8 and 6 times, respectively (OR=8.125; 95% CI: 1.735-38.043 and OR=6.290; 95% CI: 1.283-30.856, respectively).
Dermoscopic features of eruptive melanocytic naevi in an adult patient receiving immunosuppressive therapy for Crohn's disease.	The induction of multiple eruptive melanocytic naevi has frequently been reported to occur in association with chemotherapy or immunosuppressive regimens, particularly in children and adolescents. We describe the dermoscopic features of eruptive melanocytic naevi in an adult non-transplanted patient receiving immunosuppressive therapy for Crohn's disease. By dermoscopy, we observed a peripheral rim of large brown globules in most of the lesions. We have previously identified a group of patients characterized by this dermoscopic feature. These patients were children, adolescents and young adults with renal allografts receiving immunosuppressive therapy. The findings of our case strongly suggest that this dermoscopic feature may be associated with eruptive naevi developed in association with immunosuppression from any cause.
Cumulative sunlight exposure and the risk of developing skin cancer in Florida.	Epidemiologic evidence suggests that the risk of developing skin cancer is higher in certain geographic regions where sunlight is excessive. Even in such high risk regions, two distinct populations of long-term residents exist: people with, and people without skin cancer. We have compared the quantitative lifetime sunlight exposure between 11 nonmelanoma skin cancer patients who have lived in South Florida for 23.7 +/- 5.1 years and 9 age-matched normal, healthy individuals who have lived in South Florida for 23.4 +/- 4.1 years. An estimation of personal cumulative sunlight exposure was determined for each subject from data collected through detailed interviews. We found that there was no detectable, significant quantitative difference in cumulative sunlight exposure during life between these two groups. Because these individuals had previously been phenotyped for the effects of ultraviolet-B (UVB) radiation on induction of contact hypersensitivity, our results suggest that UVB-susceptibility may be a better indicator of skin cancer risk than cumulative lifetime sunlight exposure. Thus, although there is little doubt that sunlight exposure is an important factor in the development of skin cancer, our results emphasize the importance of host genetic factors in the pathogenesis of this disease.
Effect of polymorphisms in XPD, RAI, ASE-1 and ERCC1 on the risk of basal cell carcinoma among Caucasians after age 50.	We have investigated the occurrence of basal cell carcinoma (BCC) in relation to a number of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the chromosomal region 19q13.2-3. A case-control study including 322 basal cell carcinoma cases and a similar number of controls was nested in a population-based prospective investigation encompassing 57,053 Danes (aged 50-64 at inclusion) living in Copenhagen or Aarhus in Denmark. We found that the polymorphism XPD Arg156Arg was associated with risk of basal cell carcinoma (rate ratio (RR)=1.59, 95% confidence interval (CI)=1.02-2.50 for homozygous carriers of the A-allele), and that the association was strongest in the youngest age interval of the study group (50-55 years) (RR=2.33, 95% CI=1.03-5.28). The polymorphisms XPD Asp312Asn and XPD Lys751Gln were not associated with risk of basal cell carcinoma. While it cannot be ruled out that the present findings are due to chance, the present results are consistent with previous findings that XPD Arg156Arg is a weak risk factor for basal cell carcinoma.
Risk of subsequent basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma of the skin among patients with prior skin cancer. Skin Cancer Prevention Study Group.	The primary aims of this study were to assess risk of subsequent basal and squamous cell skin cancer among patients with a prior history of these tumors and to examine these risks in relation to patient characteristics and life-style factors.
The clinico-pathogenetic characteristics of Kaposi's sarcoma]	The paper is concerned with clinicomorphological characteristics of endemic, immune and epidemic (AIDS-associated) forms of Kaposi's sarcoma (KS). Recent experimental and clinical evidence suggests pathogenic contribution to KS of virus-induced depression of sex-linked genes and immunosuppression. Combined action of these factors should be regarded when specifying current presentation of KS.
Teen tanning hazards.	Parents of teen-agers are strongly encouraged by public health experts and medical professionals to discuss with their kids the dangers of indoor tanning equipment, and even to discourage its use. In fact, legislators in some states are proposing to make it illegal for a teen to tan in a commercial salon without parental consent.
Papillomatosis of cattle and its relationship to equine sarcoid]	The aetiology and the pathogenesis of equine sarcoids are described. Aspects of therapy are discussed.
Gain of 11q/cyclin D1 overexpression is an essential early step in skin cancer development and causes abnormal tissue organization and differentiation.	Non-melanoma skin cancers, in particular keratoacanthomas (KAs) and squamous cell carcinomas (SCCs), have become highly frequent tumor types especially in immune-suppressed transplant patients. Nevertheless, little is known about essential genetic changes. As a paradigm of 'early' changes, that is, changes still compatible with tumor regression, we studied KAs by comparative genomic hybridization and show that gain of chromosome 11q is not only one of the most frequent aberration (8/18), but in four tumors also the only aberration. Furthermore, 11q gain correlated with amplification of the cyclin D1 locus (10/14), as determined by fluorescence in situ hybridization, and overexpression of cyclin D1 protein (25/31), as detected by immunohistochemistry. For unraveling the functional consequence, we overexpressed cyclin D1 in HaCaT skin keratinocytes. These cells only gained little growth advantage in conventional and in organotypic co-cultures. However, although the control vector-transfected cells formed a well-stratified and orderly differentiated epidermis-like epithelium, they showed deregulation of tissue architecture with an altered localization of proliferation and impaired differentiation. The most severe phenotype was seen in a clone that additionally upregulated cdk4 and p21. These cells lacked terminal differentiation, exhibited a more autonomous growth in vitro and in vivo and even formed tumors in two injection sites with a growth pattern resembling that of human KAs. Thus, our results identify 11q13 gain/cyclin D1 overexpression as an important step in KA formation and point to a function that exceeds its known role in proliferation by disrupting tissue organization and thereby allowing abnormal growth.
Ras mutation promotes p53 activation and apoptosis of skin keratinocytes.	Previous studies in our laboratory demonstrated that 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene/12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (DMBA/TPA) treatment induced apoptosis and mitochondrial translocation of the tumor suppressor p53 in a mouse skin carcinogenesis model, suggesting that oncogenic versus cell death signaling involve a common mediator. Mutational activation of oncogenic Ras is an early event and has been demonstrated to play a critical role in skin carcinogenesis. A malignant skin keratinocyte cell line (308), which carries a H-ras mutation at codon 61, showed elevated p53 levels, increased caspase 3 activity and enhanced apoptosis after TPA treatment. In contrast, the non-malignant counterpart (C50) showed undetectable levels of p53 and less apoptosis than 308 cells similarly treated. Inhibition of NADPH-oxidase (NOX) by diphenyleneiodonium suppressed p53 activation and apoptosis in 308 cells, linking Ras mutation to NOX-induced p53 activation, which was further supported by the finding that siRNA to Rac1 inhibited p53 activation after TPA treatment. Application of DPI to DMBA-initiated skin tissue significantly blocked TPA-mediated increased p53 levels and reduced apoptosis in skin epidermal tissues. Taken together, our results suggest that NOX bridges oncogenic activation and p53 mitochondrial translocation to apoptosis in the multistage chemical-induced skin carcinogenesis model.
4-Nitroquinoline-1-oxide-induced mutagen sensitivity and risk of nonmelanoma skin cancer: a case-control analysis.	The UV radiation-mimetic chemical 4-nitroquinoline-1-oxide (4-NQO) is thought to induce squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) similar to those induced by UV radiation in animals. Therefore, we tested the hypothesis that cellular sensitivity to 4-NQO is associated with risk of developing skin cancer in a case-control study of 191 patients with nonmelanoma skin cancer (NMSC; 81 SCC and 110 basal cell carcinoma (BCC)) and 176 cancer-free controls. Short-term blood cultures were treated with 4-NQO at a final concentration of 10 microM for 24 hours and scored for chromatid breaks in 50 well-spread metaphases. We found that the mean frequency of chromatid breaks per cell (b/c) was significantly higher in the cases (mean+/-SD, 0.46+/-0.43 for SCC and 0.43+/-0.38 for BCC) than in the controls (0.25+/-0.25; P<0.001 for both comparisons) and were associated with more-than-twofold increased risk for both SCC and BCC after adjustment for known risk factors. Therefore, our findings support the notion that sensitivity to 4-NQO reflects susceptibility to UV-induced NMSC. However, there is a lack of correlation between UVB-induced b/c and 4-NQO-induced b/c in this study population. Therefore, these findings need to be verified by additional studies.
Renal involvement in multicentric Castleman disease with glomeruloid hemangioma of skin and plasmacytoma.	A 47-year-old man presented with fever of unknown origin, generalized weakness, edema, and renal failure. He had left-sided pleural effusion, generalized lymphadenopathy, multiple nontender cutaneous nodules, hepatomegaly, renal failure, and hypergammaglobulinemia. Axillary lymph node biopsy showed findings consistent with Castleman disease of the hyaline vascular type associated with interfollicular plasmacytosis. A renal biopsy performed in view of proteinuria and acute renal failure showed hypercellular glomeruli with capillary loop thickening and double contours consistent with membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis. Skin nodule biopsy showed a glomeruloid hemangioma characterized by dermal proliferation of capillary loops in a nodular manner resembling a glomerulus. He experienced clinical and biochemical remission with steroids. Discontinuation of steroid therapy was associated with recurrence of renal failure, reappearance of nodules, lymphadenopathy, and appearance of bony lytic lesions. Biopsy of bony lytic lesions showed plasmacytoma. The patient achieved complete remission on treatment with steroids and cyclophosphamide and is free of symptoms at the end of 40 months of follow-up. To our knowledge, this is the first case report of the occurrence of membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis, glomeruloid hemangioma of the skin, and plasmacytoma in a patient with multicentric Castleman disease without human immunodeficiency virus infection.
Exposure to sun radiation as a risk factor for the occurrence of basal cell carcinoma in the Montenegrian population]	[corrected] Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is the most frequent form of carcinomas in the whites. Among the environmental factors, the most important risk factor for its occurrence is the expasure to sun radiation. The aim of this study was to assess the role of the sun radiation in the development of basal cell carcinoma BCC in the Montenegrian population.
Cell type and DNA damage specific response of human skin cells to environmental agents.	The epidermis has evolved to provide a barrier against the environment, which is essential for survival. This barrier is constituted and continuously regenerated by terminally differentiating keratinocytes. Here, we summarize the main features of the response to UVB and oxidizing agents of human keratinocytes and compare it with that of fibroblasts. Keratinocytes are more resistant to the lethal effects of UVB than fibroblasts and remove cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers (CPD) more efficiently than fibroblasts. UV photoproducts are repaired by the nucleotide excision repair (NER) system by two distinct sub-pathways: global genome repair (GGR) that repairs lesions on the genome overall, and transcription coupled repair (TCR) that operates on transcribed sequences of active genes. By using NER-defective cells we demonstrated that the improved repair of UVB damage by keratinocytes is due to a more efficient GGR. A defect in TCR was associated with a strong apoptotic response in fibroblasts but not in keratinocytes, whereas a defect in GGR had no effect on the apoptotic response of either cell type. We speculate that the persistence of CPD in the transcribed sequences triggers apoptosis in fibroblasts but not in keratinocytes where GGR operates as back-up system to remove transcription-blocking lesions. As observed for UVB, keratinocytes are also more resistant to the lethal effects of oxidizing agents than fibroblasts. We show that keratinocytes are characterized by a strong anti-oxidant capacity and a higher susceptibility to reactive oxygen species (ROS)-induced apoptosis than fibroblasts. All together these results provide a clear evidence that the response to environmental agents is strongly affected by the type of damage as well as by the cellular background.
Hedgehog signalling in skin development and cancer.	Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is the most common human malignancy, affecting 750,000 Americans each year. The understanding of mutations that are known to activate hedgehog (Hh) signalling pathway genes, including PATCHED (PTCH), sonic hedgehog (Shh) and smoothened (Smo), has substantially expanded our current understanding of the genetic basis of BCC development. The Hh signalling pathway is one of the most fundamental signal transduction pathways in embryonic development. In skin, the Shh pathway is crucial for maintaining stem cell population, and for regulating hair follicle and sebaceous gland development. This pathway plays a minimal role in adult tissues, but is known to be activated in many neoplasms, including those arising in the skin. In this review, we attempt to summarize the results of published studies on some important aspects of the Shh pathway and its involvement in skin development and carcinogenesis. We also provide a description of various animal models that have been developed, based on our knowledge of the Shh pathway in human skin cancers. Additionally, we include a brief description of studies conducted in our laboratory and by others on the chemoprevention of BCCs. This review therefore provides a current understanding of the role of the Shh pathway in skin development and neoplasia. It also provides a basis for the molecular target-based chemoprevention and therapeutic management of skin cancer.
Concepts in molecular dermatotoxicology.	In the recent years, molecular research has successfully elucidated some of the major mechanisms through which environmental noxae damage human skin. From this knowledge, novel concepts for skin protection have been developed. Here, we provide a brief overview of some of the most exciting and intriguing concepts in molecular dermatotoxicology.
Inhibition of nitric oxide and reactive oxygen species production improves the ability of a sunscreen to protect from sunburn, immunosuppression and photocarcinogenesis.	More effective strategies are required for the prevention of skin cancer, which is caused by ultraviolet (UV) radiation in sunlight. Sunscreens containing UV filters or reflectors offer some protection from sunlight. Pharmacologically active compounds that reduce UV damage offer considerable potential for improving sunscreen formulations. However, few studies have investigated whether the addition of such biological modifiers are an improvement.
Risk factors for histological types and anatomic sites of cutaneous basal-cell carcinoma: an italian case-control study.	Different clinico-pathologic subtypes and anatomic sites of basal-cell carcinoma (BCC) may display distinct characteristics and mechanisms of development. However, scanty information exists on potential differences in etiological factors for BCC according to histotype and anatomic location. Thus, we analyzed data from an Italian case-control study, including 528 subjects with newly diagnosed, histologically confirmed BCC and 512 controls admitted to the same hospitals with acute conditions. The multivariate odds ratio (OR) of nodular (OR=1.53) but not superficial (OR=0.71) BCC was increased for occupational exposure to sunlight. Considering the anatomic site of BCC, the corresponding values were 1.46 for head/neck and 0.74 for truncal location. Direct associations were observed with recreational sunlight exposure, eye color, red hair, and number and early age of severe sunburn episodes, along with some differences in risk between histotypes and anatomic sites. This study confirmed the role of (intermittent) sun exposure and phenotypic characteristics as risk factors for BCC, and suggested etiological differences between nodular and superficial histotypes and between head/neck and truncal locations.
Carcinogenesis in porokeratosis. Evidence for a role relating to chronic growth activation of keratinocytes.	Porokeratoses are known to give rise to squamous and basal cell carcinomas. In this study, we examined 15 lesions of porokeratosis immunohistochemically for evidence of aberrant keratinization using several markers of keratinocyte (KC) maturation and differentiation, including involucrin, filaggrin, cytokeratins, and the growth activation marker psi-3. The staining patterns obtained were compared with several non-premalignant parakeratotic skin lesions including psoriasis, pityriasis rosea, pityriasis rubra pilaris, irritated seborrheic keratosis, atopic dermatitis, seborrheic dermatitis, and verruca vulgaris. The centers of porokeratoses stained in a pattern identical to that observed in other premalignant keratinocytic lesions including actinic keratoses, recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa, and nonhealing wounds. KCs beneath the cornoid lamella (CL) stained in a pattern similar to that observed in squamous cell carcinomas. KCs peripheral to the CL in the epidermis showed a normal staining pattern. The control non-premalignant parakeratotic lesions displayed a variety of staining patterns, but none showed a pattern identical to that observed in porokeratosis. The failure of KCs in porokeratoses to mature and differentiate normally may be related to the increased incidence of carcinomas associated with these lesions.
Melanomas arising from naevi and de novo melanomas--does origin matter?	It is widely accepted that some melanomas arise from pre-existing naevi, while others appear de novo. The proportions involved and the effect of melanoma origin on prognosis is unclear.
The risk for cutaneous malignant melanoma, melanoma in situ and intraocular malignant melanoma in relation to tobacco use and body mass index.	The incidence of cutaneous malignant melanoma (CMM) and melanoma in situ (MIS) has been increasing during the last 50 years. Malignant melanoma (MM) is also the most common intraocular malignancy (IMM). Besides ultraviolet radiation, the cause of these tumours is largely unknown.
Cyclooxygenase-2 expression is critical for chronic UV-induced murine skin carcinogenesis.	While it has been established that both the constitutive and inducible forms of cyclooxygenase (COX-1 and COX-2, respectively) play important roles in chemical initiation-promotion protocols with phorbol ester tumor promoters, the contribution of these two enzymes to ultraviolet (UV) light-induced skin tumors has not been fully assessed. To better understand the contribution of COX-1 and COX-2 to UV carcinogenesis, we transferred the null allele for each isoform onto the SKH-1 hairless strain of mouse. Due to low viability on this background with complete knockout of COX-2, heterozygous mice were used in UV carcinogenesis experiments. While the lack of one allele of COX-1 had no effect on tumor outcome, the lack of one allele of COX-2 resulted in a 50-65% reduction in tumor multiplicity and a marked decrease in tumor size. Additionally, transgenic SKH-1 mice that overexpress COX-2 under the control of a keratin 14 promoter developed 70% more tumors than wild-type SKH-1 mice. The lack of one allele of either COX-1 or COX-2 reduced prostaglandin (PG) E2 levels in response to a single UV treatment. The proliferative response to UV was significantly reduced in COX-2, but not COX-1, heterozygous mice. UV-induced apoptosis, however, was greater in COX-2 heterozygous mice. Collectively, these results clearly establish the requirement for COX-2 in the development of skin tumors.
The relation between patterns of vacation sun exposure and the development of acquired melanocytic nevi in German children 6-7 years of age.	Sun exposure is the main environmental risk factor for the development of melanocytic nevi. Although the general association is not disputed, the interplay between intense intermittent and the cumulative amount of sun exposure in defining the promoting effect on melanocytic nevus development is an area of debate. Trained staff members ascertained total body counts of melanocytic nevi in a cross-sectional study of 2,189 children 6-7 years of age who were recruited in two German centers in 2002. Their parents provided information about a variety of exposure factors. The distribution of melanocytic nevi was skewed markedly to the right; therefore, a negative binomial regression model provided the appropriate framework for a multivariable analysis. A steep gradient with respect to the (adjusted) number of melanocytic nevi was apparent only for the frequency of vacation episodes associated with sun exposure in areas with an intense ultraviolet radiation. In contrast, no such gradients were found for the cumulative duration of vacation sun exposure in such areas or for any variable related to vacation sun exposure in areas with a low ultraviolet radiation. This observation supports the hypothesis that intermittent exposure to high doses of ultraviolet radiation plays an especially important role in nevus development.
Is 2,3,5-pyrroletricarboxylic acid in hair a better risk indicator for melanoma than traditional epidemiologic measures for skin phenotype?	This study aims to assess type of melanin as a risk indicator for skin tumors, in a sample of melanoma cases and controls within a larger multicenter study (Helios 2), held in Europe and South America in 2001-2002. In each case and control, the melanin content in hair was assessed by three methods: 1) the amount of 2,3,5-pyrroletricarboxylic acid (PTCA); 2) the absorbance ratio with ultraviolet spectroscopy; and 3) the spectra of near-infrared spectroscopy. Statistical analysis was performed in a Bayesian setting, defining priors for confounders and effect modifiers from the larger study data set. Subjects with values of PTCA of less than 85 ng/mg carried an increased risk (26 vs. seven discordant pairs: odds ratio = 4.4, 95% confidence interval: 1.52, 14.54), adjusted by hair color, eye color, and number of nevi (n = > or =40). The absorbance ratio showed a weaker and nonsignificant odds ratio of 1.5. After correction by misclassification, near-infrared spectroscopy was associated with an odds ratio of 2.3 (95% confidence interval: 1.36, 4.22). The amount of PTCA is thus a strong and independent risk indicator for melanoma. Incorporating PTCA determination into epidemiologic studies is therefore recommended.
Vascular proliferations of the skin after radiation therapy for breast cancer: clinicopathologic analysis of a series in favor of a benign process: a study from the French Sarcoma Group.	Cutaneous vascular proliferations that occur in the field of prior radiotherapy include angiosarcoma and small, cutaneous lesions with a pseudosarcomatous pattern that previously were reported as atypical vascular lesions or benign lymphangiomatous papules.
Public (Mis)understanding of the UV Index.	The ultraviolet index (UVI) has been regularly reported in Australia for a decade but utilisation remains extremely low ( approximately 5%). Blunden, Lower, and Slevin, in a 2004 Journal of Health communication article, suggest that Australians' understanding of the UVI is "good," and education to increase awareness of the index is therefore no longer warranted. To test this position, focus groups were conducted followed by an intercept survey of 404 residents of Perth, Western Australia, aged 16-44 years, to explore understanding and familiarity with the UVI. Results suggested that far from being "good," the familiarity and understanding of the UVI of at least half of Australians is poor. This was exemplified by the following: mean estimations of average UVI values in summer and winter being highly exaggerated (19.8 and 11.8, respectively); 61.2% not appreciating that the UVI is independent of temperature; at least 55.0% not appreciating that UV conditions peak at solar noon; and 23.3% of 22-44 year olds confusing the UVI with a "burn-time" measure. People who do not understand the UVI are unlikely to utilise it effectively. It therefore remains possible that utilisation of the UVI remains low because understanding is poor. Future efforts to improve utilisation of the UVI, particularly among those looking at new display formats, may therefore be ineffective, unless they also incorporate strategies to facilitate understanding of the measure.
A case of Kaposi's sarcoma following treatment of membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis and a review of the literature.	Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) is an unusual tumor principally affecting the skin of the lower extremities. Although the association between KS and renal transplant has been well documented, there are a few KS cases in the literature associated with membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis or other glomerular diseases. This report presents a patient with membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis (MPGN) who developed KS following treatment with long-term medium dose glucocorticoid and short-term additional immunosuppressives. The KS cases associated with glomerulonephritis are also reviewed. KS is a rare complication in glomerular diseases that may (or may not) be related to immunosuppression. Hence, immunosuppression treatment should be carefully planned in glomerulonephritis treatment and avoided if they are not essentially necessary.
Treatment of a patient with epidermodysplasia verruciformis carrying a novel EVER2 mutation with imiquimod.	Epidermodysplasia verruciformis (EV) is a rare disorder characterized by widespread human papillomavirus infection and malignant transformation. EV may be caused by mutations of the genes EVER1 or EVER2, which are located on the EV1 locus, 17q25. We describe a patient with EV and a novel homozygous gene mutation of EVER2 gene who was treated successfully with topical imiquimod.
Induction and prevention of carcinogenesis in rat skin exposed to space radiation.	Quantitative cancer incidence data exist for various laboratory animal models, but little of this information is usable for estimating human risks, primarily because of uncertainties about possible mechanistic differences among species. Acceptance and utilization of animal data for human risk assessment will require a much better understanding of the comparative underlying mechanisms than now exists. A dual-lesion, radiation-track model in rat skin has proven to be consistent with tumor induction data with respect to acute radiation doses ranging from 0.5 up to 10 Gy and higher, and average LETs ranging from 0.34 to 150 keV microm(-1) according to the form neoplastic risk (D,L) = CLD + BD2. A recent result with the 56Fe ion beam showed dose-response consistency for malignant (carcinomas) and benign (fibromas) tumor induction with earlier results utilizing argon and neon ion beams. A discrepancy between the model and experiment was found indicating that proportionality of cancer yield with LET did not occur at 150 versus 125 keV microm(-1), i.e. tumor yield did not increase in spite of a 20% increase of LET, which suggests that a LET response maximum exists at or within this dose range. Concordance between the model and tumor induction data in rat skin implies that potential intervening complexities of carcinogenic progression fail to obscure the basic radiobiological assumptions underpinning the model. Gene expression microarray analysis shows that vitamin A inhibits the expression of about 80% of the inflammation-related genes induced by the radiation and prevents about 46% of the neoplasms associated with 56Fe ion radiation without appearing to interfere with the underlying dose and LET response patterns. Further validation is needed, but the model has the potential to provide quantitative estimates of cancer risk as a function of dose and LET for almost any type of radiation exposure and even for combinations of different radiations provided only three empirical parameters can be established for each type of radiation and organ system.
Photoreactivation of ultraviolet radiation-induced skin and eye tumors of Monodelphis domestica.	Chronic exposure of the opossum Monodelphis domestica to UV radiation (UVR) leads to the formation of cutaneous and corneal tumors. Groups of shaved opossums were exposed 3 times/week to: (a) UVR alone; (b) UVR followed immediately by 1 h of photoreactivating light (PRL) (320-700 nm); (c) 1 h of PRL followed by UVR; and (d) 1 h of PRL alone. Exposures were terminated after 70 weeks of treatment. Analysis of data plotted as probability of tumor formation versus weeks from first exposure shows that post-UVR exposure to PRL significantly (P less than 0.005) delayed the time to appearance of cutaneous tumors from a 50% probability of tumor formation at 73 weeks for those animals exposed to UVR alone to 128 weeks for those animals exposed to PRL after UVR. Pre-UVR exposure to PRL delayed the appearance of tumors by 6 weeks when compared to the UVR alone group, but the difference between the two groups was not statistically significant. The yield (number of tumors/surviving animal) of cutaneous tumors at 70 and 110 weeks following initiation of treatments also was significantly less in those animals exposed to PRL after, but not before, UVR. Based on the specificity of the PR repair pathway to act only on pyrimidine dimers, these results suggest that dimers are involved in the induction of cutaneous tumors. The results obtained with the induction of corneal tumors are more difficult to interpret. While exposure to PRL significantly delayed the appearance of corneal tumors, the magnitude of the effect was the same regardless of whether the PRL was given before or after each UVR exposure.
Esophagus replacement with anisoperistaltic left colon after removal of skin tube cancer]	Authors replaced the esophagus with anisoperistaltic left colon because they had no other possibilities. In this case twenty-one years ago after an esophageal injury the patient underwent gastric resection, removal of the esophagus and replacement with a skin tube created from a myocutaneous flap. Unfortunately the right colon earlier had been removed after an unsuccessful replacement. Twenty-one years later carcinoma developed in the skin tube therefore the tumour was removed and anisoperistaltic left colon was used as a "new esophagus". The pulled up left colon was supplied by the left colic artery and supercharged by a vascular anastomosis on the neck. Authors would like to present that esophageal replacement with anisoperistaltic left colon is a feasible method if no other therapeutic option remains.
Subcutaneous leiomyosarcoma developing in a radiation dermatitis.	A case of subcutaneous leiomyosarcoma developing in a skin affected by radiation dermatitis is presented. A 59-year-old patient had been suffering from radiation dermatitis induced by radiotherapy for a mediastinal tumor diagnosed at 24 years of age. Thirty-four years later, slow growing nodules developed in this lesion. Light and electron microscopic studies revealed that the tumor was a subcutaneous leiomyosarcoma. There is no previous report of a subcutaneous leiomyosarcoma developing in radiation dermatitis.
Cutaneous manifestations in renal failure patients: a case series.	Cutaneous involvement in renal disease is due to a host of factors ranging from metabolic disturbances to immunosuppressive drugs. Herein we report a series of six cases of renal failure with varied cutaneous manifestations ranging from infections to neoplasms due to prolonged immunosuppression. Our first case had cutaneous cryptococcosis where skin lesions gave a clue to the diagnosis of altered sensorium and underlying meningitis. The second case initially presented with florid warts and was treated successfully but later presented with an explosive recurrence of skin lesions due to malignant transformation. Our third case had basal cell carcinoma over the presternal region that was successfully treated with liquid nitrogen cryotherapy. Our fourth case had diabetic nephropathy that presented with septicemia and purpura fulminans. The last case had cutaneous manifestations of drug therapy because of heparin infusion. To conclude, cutaneous manifestations in patients with renal failure are varied and a high degree of suspicion is needed for early diagnosis and aggressive treatment to effectively combat mortality and morbidity.
Arsenical poisoning: how and why to diagnose it]	Arsenic is an ubiquitary element which has been widely used for centuries in different fields such as medicine, agriculture or industry. Acute or chronic exposure to As can lead to various dermatological and systemic disorders with a possibe latency over decades. The dermatological signs of As intoxication are important to detect since one of the potential complications is carcinoma.
The mechanisms of UV radiation in the development of malignant melanoma.	The sunlight was one of the first agents recognized to be carcinogenic for humans. There is convincing evidence from epidemiologic studies that exposure to solar radiation is the major cause of cutaneous melanoma in light-pigmented populations and plays a role in the increasing incidence of this malignancy. The molecular mechanisms by which UV radiation exerts its varied effects are not completely understood, however, it is considered that UVA and UVB are equally critical players in melanoma formation. Whereas UVA can indirectly damage DNA through the formation of reactive oxygen radicals, UVB can directly damage DNA causing the apoptosis of keratinocytes by forming the sunburn cells. Besides action through mutations in critical regulatory genes, UV radiation may promote cancer through indirect mechanisms, e.g. immunosuppression and dysregulation of growth factors. The carcinogenic process probably involves multiple sequential steps, some, but not all of which involve alterations in DNA structure.
Apoptosis in skin cancer development and regression.	Non-melanoma skin cancers (NMSC) are the most common malignant tumors in white population and their incidence has been increasing worldwide. Molecular events regulating cell survival, apoptosis, growth arrest as well as cell differentiation, are important contributors to the overall kinetics of benign and malignant cell growth and play a role in their development, progression and regression. Failure of these pathways can result in the loss of control over proliferation and lead to tumor development through the inactivation of tumor suppressor genes or the activation of oncogenes. Also, immunological mechanisms have been implicated in a phenomenon of tumor progression as well as spontaneous tumor regression. We have tried to summarize the main events in etiopatogenesis, development, progression and in some cases skin cancer regression. Further studies are needed to elucidate completely the details of apoptotic control in normal skin and determine factors resulting in apoptotic disbalance and disease.
Epidermal malignant tumors: pathogenesis, influence of UV light and apoptosis.	Basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma, collectively termed non-melanoma skin cancers are the most common malignant tumors in humans. Basal cell carcinoma grows slowly and metastatic spread is very rare. Squamous cell carcinoma is characterized by infiltrative, destructive growth and metastasis. Long-term exposure of skin to UV light has a great impact on development of these epidermal malignancies. UV light induces cascade of events like well known DNA damage of keratinocytes as well as still completely undetermined influence on apoptotic process through expression of proapoptotic and antiapoptotic molecules. The major role in development of skin cancer is given to proapoptotic p53 molecule or tumor suppressor gene which mutation due to UV exposure leads to resistance of DNA-damaged cell to apoptosis. Other proapoptotic molecules such as Fas ligand (FasL) and tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) are strongly expressed in basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma that could be explained by the ability of tumor to escape the attack of immune system.
Occupational skin diseases caused by solar radiation.	UV radiation is present in sunlight and can be emitted from numerous artificial sources. Outdoor workers are exposed to sunlight in a wide variety of occupations like sailors, fishers, construction workers, farmers, and other. Presented are the skin diseases caused by sunlight exposure. They may be of little medical importance such as stigmata or create problems like photoaging, skin carcinoma, melanoma, phototoxic and photoallergic reactions. Shown are briefly data on skin cancer in the Rijeka region in outdoor occupations, the legislation and necessity for prevention. Psoriatic patients need particular caution because they are exposed to UVR, tars, and immunosuppressive drugs during the treatment.
Photocarcinogenesis--molecular mechanisms.	The carcinogenicity (photocarcinogenicity) of sunlight to human skin has been recognized more than a century ago. Last decades numerous experimental studies show that UV rays damage DNA, cause gene mutations leading to the development of malignant tumors such basal cell carcinomas, squamous cell carcinomas and melanomas. The tumors occur most frequently in fair skinned people, and the mutations typically are found at dipyrimidine sites with C-T or / and CC-TT tandem double mutations. The authors briefly summarize their investigation of the p53 suppressor gene, and expose their hypothesis of hTERT involvement in cancerogenesis. Also their underline the importance of UV induced immunosuppression in photocarcinogenesis. Psoriatic patients are exposed to numerous cancerogens in their treatment. A better understanding of the mechanisms of photocarcinogenesis could provide new ways in the treatment of skin tumors.
Melanocytic "ball-in-mitts" and "microalveolar structures" and their role in the development of cellular blue nevi.	To test the hypothesis of whether cellular blue nevi (CBN) may originate from "ordinary" compound and dermal nevi, a total of 275 melanocytic nevi including 59 CBN, 34 ordinary blue nevi, 87 combined nevi (including 43 so-called clonal nevi), 35 deep penetrating nevi, and 60 ordinary compound and dermal nevi (30 of each) were studied for the presence of so-called ball-in-mitts and microalveolar structures. A ball-in-mitts structure was defined as a single centrally placed melanocyte with a round to oval nucleus (the "ball" cell) and a clear, dusty, or pigmented cytoplasm encircled by a single dendritic cell (the "mitt" cell) with an oval to spindle-shaped nucleus and slender bipolar processes containing melanin and surrounding at least one fourth of the ball's diameter. A microalveolar structure was defined as a group of 2 to 10 centrally placed melanocytes with round to oval nuclei and clear, dusty, or pigmented cytoplasm (balls) surrounded by one or more cells (mitts) with spindle-shaped nuclei and slender bipolar processes containing melanin. Microscopically, ball-in-mitt and microalveolar structures were detected in all types of nevi studied, with the highest incidence in combined nevi (82%), CBN (76%), and ordinary "nonblue" nevi (73%). In CBN, ball-in-mitts and microalveolar structures tended to be located in the deeper portion of the lesions, whereas in ordinary nonblue nevi, they were most often found superficially, just below the epidermis; in clonal nevi, these structures were often confined to the "clonal" parts. Immunohistochemically, ball-in-mitts and microalveolar structures were positive for HMB45. Ultrastructurally, the balls tended to have round to oval nuclei, whereas the mitts possessed oval, elongated to spindled nuclei. Melanosomes were found in various stages in the cells of both structures. The cytoplasm of the mitts typically formed elongated polar processes, sometimes with club-like widenings at the ends, completely or partially encircling the balls. In the microalveolar structures, the adjacent cells forming the mitts surrounded the ball cells like a chain. Our study suggests that some or even most cases of CBN may evolve from ordinary nonblue nevi. This process may involve several steps and is probably reflected by the appearances of combined nevi, deep penetrating nevi, and CBN. These nevi often show a morphological overlap, and ball-in-mitts and microalveolar structures found in various stages of their development seem to greatly account for this overlap.
Papillary thyroid carcinoma metastasis most probably due to fine needle aspiration biopsy. A case report.	Implantation of cancer cells from needle biopsy has been reported in a wide range of malignancies. Fine needle aspiration biopsy has become an accepted method for assessment of thyroid nodules. Local reappearance of thyroid cancer from needle track dissemination is a rare complication of thyroid aspiration. A 45-year-old female developed local recurrence of papillary thyroid carcinoma four years after aspiration biopsy and thyroidectomy. Metastatic deposits appeared in the skin and the sternocleidomastoid muscle. The linear array and the site of metastases implied that seeding most probably resulted from the needle biopsy.
KSHV infection and the pathogenesis of Kaposi's sarcoma.	Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) has long been suspected of having an infectious etiology on the basis of its unusual epidemiology, histopathology, and natural history. Nearly a decade ago, a novel herpesviral genome was discovered in KS biopsies, and since that time strong epidemiologic evidence has accumulated correlating infection with this KS-associated herpesvirus (KSHV, also known as human herpesvirus 8) with the development of the disease. Here we review the evidence linking KSHV infection to KS risk and discuss current notions of how KSHV gene expression promotes the development of this remarkable neoplasm. These studies show that both latent and lytic viral replicative cycles contribute significantly-but differently-to KS development. The studies also highlight mechanistic differences between oncogenesis caused by KSHV and that caused by its distant relative Epstein-Barr virus.
Actinic keratosis and premalignant skin damage.	Because of the prevalence of actinic keratosis and its significance if untreated, dermatology nurses must understand the clinical characteristics, etiologies, and risks of malignant transformation of these lesions.
Long-term effects in skin and thyroid after radiotherapy for skin angiomas: a French retrospective cohort study.	To evaluate the long-term effects of skin angioma irradiation, a recall programme was established which included the systematic recalculation of the radiation dose to the skin and the thyroid. 22% of the 6229 patients contacted had a dermatological examination which revealed cutaneous dystrophy in 81% of the 1137 exposed angiomas and in 39% of the 208 unexposed angiomas. The risk of dystrophy (telangiectasia, hypopigmentation, superficial and subcutaneous atrophy) was 12.1 higher (P less than 0.0001) among patients who had received a surface skin dose above 30 Gy than among those who had received a dose of 10 Gy or less. The relative risk for each dystrophy component increased significantly (P less than 0.001) with surface skin dose. Furthermore, 14 basal cell carcinomas (BCC) were observed in 12 patients from the exposed group for all quantities of radiation, with a mean latency period of 22 years. No BCC was observed for a surface skin dose below 10 Gy. Thyroid testing was done on a subgroup of 431 patients whose thyroid gland had been particularly exposed during angioma irradiation. After recalculation, the dose delivered to the gland was below 1 Gy in 98% of patients. Only 13 thyroid nodules were discovered (1 hot and 12 cold). 1 patient with a cold nodule had a malignant thyroid tumour 21 years after irradiation. He belonged to the group of 7 patients who had received a thyroid dose above 1 Gy. Although no morphological abnormality was found in 98% of the tested patients, most (92%) had a thyroid iodine content below 15 mg (the standard French value), while a raised serum thyroglobulin level (greater than 30 ng/ml) was observed in 17%. This might confer a higher risk of subsequently developing thyroid nodules.
Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the ankle in long-standing untreated acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans.	Acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans (ACA) represents the persistent late stage of borreliosis in which Borrelia species may survive for decades. Occasionally, B-cell lymphoma may develop in these patients, and additional neoplastic complications such as basal cell carcinoma or squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) have been reported once each over the past 60 years. Here we describe, to the best of our knowledge, the first case of metastatic SCC in a European patient with long-standing ACA caused by Borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto. Our case highlights a potential pathophysiological connection of untreated Borrelia infection with the initiation or progression of SCC and should alert dermatologists to this rare complication.
Skin cancers arising in tattoos: coincidental or not?	Trauma, scars and/or chronic inflammation have been reported as underlying causes of skin cancers in occasional cases. Tattooing is a traumatizing procedure characterized by the introduction of exogenous pigment in the dermis by puncturing the skin. Even though cases of malignancies such as melanoma, basal cell carcinomas, squamous cell carcinomas and keratoacanthomas have been reported for the past 40 years, it remains unclear what role tattoos play in their pathogenesis. We report here 2 new cases and wish to discuss the arguments and counter-arguments for such a potential relationship.
Epidermoid (or squamous cell) carcinoma]	Cutaneous epidermoid carcinomas are common cancers that most often affect people who are elderly or immunocompromised. They may occur anywhere but are found most often on photoexposed areas because UV rays are a major risk factor for them. They often develop on precancerous lesions of the skin (actinic keratosis) but also of the mucous membranes (HPV-induced infections or lichen). Their particular clinical presentation depends on their site and their cause. Prognosis is generally good when surgical excision is performed early with a sufficient margin of healthy tissue. Nonetheless, some advanced forms or with histologic criteria indicating poor prognosis have a risk of lymph node or distant metastasis and may require more intense treatment. Their prevention is based on photoprotection and on dermatologic surveillance of at-risk subjects.
Skin cancers after organ transplants]	Squamous cell carcinoma and basal cell carcinoma are the most common cancers after transplants, affecting more than half of all patients in the long term. In the 5 years after a first squamous cell carcinoma, 90 to 100% of transplant patients subsequently develop multiple skin carcinomas of various types and at least 20% develop noncutaneous cancers. Management of these patients requires, beyond the usual dermatologic treatments, a revision of their immunosuppression regimen to reduce the tumor risk. New immunosuppressants that inhibit the m-TOR protein (sirolimus and everolimus) appear to offer promising perspectives, and patients treated with these drugs from the time of their transplantation have fewer skin cancers than patients with the standard protocols. On the other hand, the benefit of prescribing them later after the transplant remains to be shown, because of the frequency of intolerance phenomena. Several prospective French multicenter studies are currently assessing the effect of replacing anticalcineurins by sirolimus or everolimus for secondary prevention of skin cancers in renal or cardiac transplant patients who have already developed skin cancer. Primary prevention requires that patients be educated about strict sun protection from the transplant onwards and have a routine annual dermatologic examination enabling early treatment of lesions.
Skin cancer in organ transplant recipients--where do we stand today?	Skin cancers are the most frequent malignancies in organ transplant recipients (OTR), with 95% being nonmelanoma skin cancers (NMSC), especially squamous (SCC) and basal cell carcinomas. Most OTR with a first SCC subsequently develop multiple NMSC within 5 years, highlighting the concept of 'field cancerization', and are also at high risk for noncutaneous cancers. In order to reduce the tumor burden in these patients, their management requires an interdisciplinary approach including revision of immunosuppression, new dermatological treatments and adequate education about photoprotection in specialized dermatology clinics for OTR. Whereas surgery remains the gold-standard therapy for NMSC, noninvasive methods have shown promising results to treat superficial keratoses and subclinical lesions on large body areas. Although the threshold of skin cancer necessitating revision of immunosuppression is debated, this measure should be envisaged at the occurrence of the first SCC, or in case of multiple non-SCC NMSC. While the role of immunosuppressants in the occurrence of NMSC is widely recognized, the best immunosuppressive strategies remain to be defined. Presently, randomized prospective studies assess the burden of new skin tumors, as well as graft and patient survival, in patients with one or several NMSC after the introduction of mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitors.
Molecular and immunologic mechanisms of cancer pathogenesis in solid organ transplant recipients.	The increased risk for the development of malignancies in transplant recipients is generally attributed to the debilitated immune system that results from chronic exposure to potent immunosuppressive drugs required to prevent graft rejection. While impaired immunity is clearly a key determinant, there is strong evidence that a constellation of other factors contribute to the pathogenesis of posttransplant cancers. In this article we discuss the underlying molecular and immunologic mechanisms that contribute to the development of de novo malignancies in transplant recipients, with particular focus on the two leading posttransplant neoplasia, skin cancer and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-associated posttransplant lymphoproliferative disorder (PTLD).
Prevention of skin cancer in primary healthcare: an evaluation of three different prevention effort levels and the applicability of a phototest.	The high skin cancer incidence in western society, and its known association with sun exposure habits, makes the area an important target for prevention. We investigated, in a primary healthcare setting, differentiated levels of prevention efforts directed at the propensity of the patient to change his/her sun habits, sun protection behaviour, and attitudes, after information intervention. Additionally, the impact of the performance of a phototest to determine individual sun sensitivity was evaluated.
Mixed messages and a missed opportunity: Australian news media coverage of Clare Oliver's campaign against solaria.	To review television and print media coverage of the campaign to regulate solaria that was initiated by Clare Oliver before her death from melanoma in late 2007, and to investigate how the media constructed the aetiology of her disease.
Cutaneous lymphoid hyperplasia (pseudolymphoma) in tattoos: a case series of seven patients.	Cutaneous lymphoid hyperplasia (CLH or pseudolymphoma) is considered a rare complication occurring in tattoos. We analysed the demographics, clinical features, histological aspects, allergy tests, outcome and therapeutic data of CLH in tattoos performed by a professional in a series of patients.
Angiosarcoma in postsurgical lymphedema. An unusual occurrence in a man.	A 63-year-old man underwent partial left axillary node dissection for metastatic melanoma of unknown primary. Lymphedema of his left upper extremity developed after surgery. Eight years later, extensive cutaneous angiosarcoma developed in the edematous limb. The occurrence of cutaneous angiosarcoma in postsurgical lymphedema is extremely rare in men; to our knowledge, our case is the fifth such case thus far reported.
The influence of dose rate on ultraviolet tumorigenesis.	To gain an insight into the relationship between the time in which a daily UV dose is delivered and its carcinogenic effectiveness, the following experiment was performed. Three groups of 24 albino hairless mice (Skh-hr1) were exposed to the same daily dose of UVB radiation (600 J m-2; Philips TL12). The exposure times for the three groups were 1.25, 4 and 12 h per day. A fourth unirradiated group served as a control. All animals exposed to UVB developed multiple skin tumours, whereas the control animals did not develop any observable tumours. Tumour development in the groups exposed for 4 and 12 h was virtually identical. Tumour development was significantly faster in the groups exposed for 4 and 12 h per day than in the group exposed for 1.25 h: the median tumour induction time was reduced by 12%. In terms of the effective dose, this is equivalent to a 25% increase in effectiveness for the 4 and 12 h groups relative to the 1.25 h group. In conclusion, the present experiment shows that prolongation of the exposure duration increases the carcinogenic efficacy of UVB radiation.
Basal cell carcinoma in young patients after irradiation for childhood malignancy.	Three patients underwent cranial irradiation as part of treatment for childhood malignancy. Two of these patients had acute lymphocytic leukemia and one had an astrocytoma. All had longlasting remissions from their childhood malignancy but 8-15 years later developed a basal cell carcinoma of the scalp within previous radiation portals. The basal cell carcinomas were all treated successfully using Mohs micrographic surgery. Follow-up of patients receiving irradiation for childhood malignancy should include periodic cutaneous examinations of previously irradiated sites.
Investigating the role of appearance-based factors in predicting sunbathing and tanning salon use.	UV exposure via sunbathing and utilization of sun lamps and tanning beds are considered important risk factors for the development of skin cancer. Psychosocial models of UV exposure are often based on theories of health behavior, but theory from the body image field can be useful as well. The current study examines models that prospectively predict sunbathing and indoor tanning behaviors using constructs and interrelationships derived from the tripartite theory of body image, theory of reasoned action, health belief model, revised protection motivation theory, and a proposed integration of several health behavior models. The results generally support a model in which intentions mediate the relationship between appearance attitudes and tanning behaviors, appearance reasons to tan and intentions mediate the relationship between sociocultural influences and tanning behaviors, and appearance reasons not to tan and intentions mediate the role of perceived threat on behaviors. The implications of these findings are considered.
Sunlight and dysplastic nevus risk. Results of a clinic-based case-control study.	The dysplastic nevus (DN) is the most important risk factor and precursor for malignant melanoma. The authors compared the responses of 132 consecutive cases of DN, 186 consecutive cases of cutaneous melanoma, and 239 controls attending the same subspecialty clinic to questions regarding sun sensitivity, sun exposure, and other possible risk factors. Dysplastic nevus cases were younger than controls and were of a higher social class, as indicated by more years of formal education. Sun sensitivity (assessed by reported depth of tan after multiple exposures) was associated with both DN risk and melanoma risk after controlling for age and education in logistic regression analysis (P = 0.009 and 0.03, respectively), but for DN risk this association was nonlinear: the relative risks (versus deep tan) were 2.3 for average tanners, 2.8 for light tanners, and 1.6 for those who reported practically no tan. Sun exposure measures were not associated with DN risk after controlling for age and education, whether or not depth of tan was controlled in the analysis. These observations suggest a role for either sunlight or a trait linked with sun sensitivity in the development of dysplastic nevi.
Kaposi sarcoma associated with human immunodeficiency virus infection.	In the present study, 11 patients with epidemic Kaposi sarcoma were evaluated; 55% were in stage IV and 45% in stage II; in addition, 75% had systemic symptoms, 89% had low total and T-lymphocyte counts, and all of them had not only low T-helper lymphocyte counts but also T-helper/T-suppressor ratios. The majority of patients (89%) had low proliferative responses with phytohemagglutinin (PHA). Nine patients were treated with: alpha-2 interferon (five patients), zidovudine (two patients), doxorubicin and zidovudine (one patient), and radiotherapy (one patient). There were only five patients with stable disease, three treated with alpha-2 interferon, one with doxorubicin, and one with doxorubicin plus azidothymidine. Two patients (one with doxorubicin and one with doxorubicin plus zidovudine) needed lithium to increase leukocyte and platelet counts. In May 1989, 73% of patients were dead (median survival 8 +/- 2 months). It is concluded that: (1) it is important to select the patients who have the best chance to improve with treatment; (2) the response with alpha-2 interferon or monochemotherapy is low and there is no change in overall survival; (3) a low helper cell count, low T-helper/T-suppressor ratio, and low proliferative response with mitogens are features of poor prognosis; (4) toxicity with treatment was acceptable; and (5) lithium increased neutrophil and platelet counts.
Cutaneous seeding following fine needle biopsy of colonic liver metastases.	Needle track seeding is a rare complication of percutaneous needle biopsy which has become less frequent with the advent of the fine needle. We describe one case of malignant cutaneous seeding following fine needle aspiration of a peripherally based hepatic metastasis from colonic carcinoma. This report underlines the need to traverse normal adjacent liver parenchyma prior to entering a peripherally-based metastatic deposit to reduce the likelihood of malignant cutaneous seeding.
The role of ultraviolet radiation in melanomagenesis.	The role of ultraviolet radiation (UV) in the pathogenesis has been discussed controversially for many decades. Studies in mice (SCID, HGF/SF, SV40T) which develop malignant melanoma, show a role of UVB in melanomagenesis. In contrast to this, the role of UVA is less clear. We will review the recent in vitro and in vivo data in support of the hypothesis that UVA is also involved in the development of malignant melanoma. The role of UVA in p53 activation, apoptosis, cell cycle arrest and photoproduct formation is discussed.
Biology of basal cell carcinoma (Part II).	Host-tumor relationships involve several factors that can enhance or suppress neoplastic growth. This second part of a review of basal cell carcinoma biology examines the role that hormones, cytokines, local and systemic immunity, congenital and genetic syndromes, and environmental factors play in the development of this neoplasm. Theories of etiology and pathogenesis are discussed, and transplantation and cell culture techniques used to study this cancer are explored. Valuable second-line therapies for treatment of multiple tumors are reviewed, and important areas of present and future research are emphasized.
Tanning salons: an area survey of proprietors' knowledge of risks and precautions.	An area survey of tanning salon proprietors was conducted in a medium-sized midwestern city. Proprietors reported they were in compliance with federal safety regulations, but not all had age, frequency, or duration restrictions. Similarly, proprietors were not uniformly informing patrons of potential tanning hazards, including the possibility of skin cancer, and were not knowledgeable about the risk and benefits of tanning. Some establishments reported selling psoralens to patrons to enhance tanning. More explicit guidelines regarding the use of tanning equipment and more accurate consumer information are needed.
Anetodermic primary cutaneous B-cell lymphoma: a unique clinicopathological presentation of lymphoma possibly associated with antiphospholipid antibodies.	Primary cutaneous B-cell lymphoma manifested by anetoderma has been reported in 7 cases. In all, the secondary anetoderma developed in lesions of marginal-zone lymphoma or posttransplant lymphoproliferative disorder resembling marginal-zone lymphoma. The mechanisms underlying the destruction of elastic tissue in anetoderma are unclear. However, there is growing evidence linking primary anetoderma with a wide range of immunologic abnormalities, the most common being the presence of antiphospholipid antibodies.
The development of excess numbers of melanocytic naevi in an immunosuppressed identical twin.	The development of cutaneous proliferative lesions following renal transplantation has been well documented in the literature. Those lesions most commonly seen include viral warts, actinic keratoses and basal-cell and squamous-cell carcinomata. More recently it has been suggested that melanocyte proliferation, both benign and malignant, may follow renal transplantation, probably as a result of immunosuppression. We report the case of an identical twin who developed numerous benign melanocytic naevi following renal transplantation; no such proliferation of naevi occurred in his identical sibling.
Psoriasis therapy and the risk of skin cancers.	Photochemotherapy (PUVA) and methotrexate (MTX) are treatments frequently prescribed in patients with severe psoriasis. However, both treatments have carcinogenic potential. A group of 227 patients, who had been treated with PUVA, MTX or the combination, was investigated for the presence of cancer of the skin. As a control, the partners of these patients were investigated at the same visit. Cancers of the skin were observed in 15 out of 227 psoriatics, compared to one out of 95 control subjects. In the psoriatic patients a previous history of skin cancer, arsenic intake and X-ray treatment were observed more frequently. The increased frequency of skin cancers in psoriatics treated with PUVA, MTX and the combination of both, justifies regular surveillance on skin cancer in these patients.
Topical vitamin E inhibition of immunosuppression and tumorigenesis induced by ultraviolet irradiation.	Ultraviolet (UV) irradiation of C3H/HeN mice induces skin cancer and an immunosuppression that prevents the host from rejecting antigenic UV-induced tumors. The capacity of topical vitamin E (dl-alpha-tocopherol) to prevent photocarcinogenesis or the immunosuppression induced by UV irradiation were assessed. Skin cancer incidence in UV-irradiated mice was 81% at 33 weeks after the first UV exposure; application to mice of 25 mg vitamin E three times per week for three weeks before UV irradiation, and throughout the experiment, reduced this incidence to 42% (p = 0.0065, log rank test). Immunoenhancement by vitamin E was assessed by comparing levels of immunosuppression by splenocytes from normal or UV-irradiated mice, with and without topical vitamin E treatment. Transfer of splenocytes from UV-irradiated mice to naive mice prevented the recipients from rejecting a UV-induced tumor challenge, whereas splenocytes from UV-irradiated mice treated with vitamin E did not prevent recipients from rejecting a similar tumor challenge. Phenotypic analysis of splenocytes used in the passive transfer assay, conducted with a biotin-avidin-immunoperoxidase technique, revealed that vitamin E treatment of mice undergoing UV irradiation prevented the UV-induced down regulation of Ia expression in splenocytes and increased the proportion of Lyt-2+ and L3T4+ splenocytes. Therefore, chronically applied vitamin E can effectively reduce cancer formation and immunosuppression induced by UV irradiation. Prevention of UV-induced down regulation of Ia expression may have contributed to this immunomodulation.
Sun-related skin diseases.	Severe photoaging of the skin, which may be caused by exposure to both natural and artificial ultraviolet light, ultimately results in actinic keratoses and cancer. Cancers are common on the head, neck, arms, and hands. Because of the potential for metastasis, squamous cell carcinomas generally require surgical excision and histologic examination. Although metastasis is rare with basal cell carcinoma, neglected lesions around the eyes, nose, or ears can invade bone, nerves, and cartilage and may cause death. Avoidance of sun, physical protection, and regular use of sunscreens are recommended.
A comparison of interfollicular and hair follicle derived cells as targets for the v-rasHa oncogene in mouse skin carcinogenesis.	Methods to isolate and culture intact mouse hair follicles and interfollicular epidermal cells provide a model to test the potential of each to form tumors as a consequence of rasHa gene activation and to determine the risk for progression in the resultant tumors. The v-rasHa oncogene was introduced into intact or dissociated hair follicle cells or interfollicular epidermal cells from newborn mouse skin via a defective retroviral vector. Either immediately after infection or after an additional 6 days of culture, the v-rasHa cells were transferred to nude mice as a skin graft. Both cell populations formed squamous papillomas which were indistinguishable based on morphology and immunocytochemistry. All papillomas expressed epidermal specific markers whether derived from hair follicle or interfollicular cells, and many regressed. After 16 weeks in vivo, 20-30% of the benign skin tumors in all groups converted to malignancy. In addition to papillomas, hair follicle derived populations produced hemangiomas in many animals. None of the groups formed basal cell carcinomas, keratoacanthomas or tumors with characteristics of differentiating hair follicle cells. These studies indicate that ras gene activation can contribute to benign squamous neoplasia originating from several skin-derived cell types. The underlying factors which determine the variable risk for neoplastic progression of skin papillomas after ras gene activation is not simply the origin of the tumor cell from hair follicle or interfollicular epidermis. The activated ras oncogene can also transform skin endothelial cells but does not appear to directly contribute to transformation of the more differentiated cells of the hair follicle.
Multiple dermatofibromas in patients with autoimmune disorders receiving immunosuppressive therapy.	Multiple dermatofibromas have been previously reported in ten patients with autoimmune disorders; in six of these, the lesions initially appeared several months after commencing treatment with immunosuppressive medications. Two additional patients with autoimmune disorders receiving systemic corticosteroid therapy who subsequently developed multiple dermatofibromas are described: a 69-year-old man with a 24-year history of pemphigus vulgaris (23 lesions on his legs) and a 22-year-old woman with a 2-year history of systemic lupus erythematosus (four lesions on her legs and trunk). The association of multiple dermatofibromas in individuals with an altered immune system may provide insight into the pathogenesis of this cutaneous condition.
Personal attributions for melanoma risk in melanoma-affected patients and family members.	Personal attributions for cancer risk involve factors that individuals believe contribute to their risk for developing cancer. Understanding personal risk attributions for melanoma may dictate gene-environment melanoma risk communication strategies. We examined attributions for melanoma risk in a population-based sample of melanoma survivors, first degree family members, and family members who are also parents (N = 939). We conducted qualitative examination of open-ended risk attributions and logistic regression examining predictors (demographics, family member type, perceived risk) of the attributions reported (ultraviolet radiation [UVR] exposure, heredity/genetics, phenotype, personal melanoma history, miscellaneous). We found a predominance of risk attributions to UVR and heredity/genetics (80 and 45% of the sample, respectively). Those reporting higher education levels were more likely to endorse attributions to heredity/genetics, as well as to phenotype, than those of lower education levels. First-degree relatives and parent family members were more likely to endorse heredity/genetic attributions than melanoma survivors; melanoma survivors were more likely to endorse personal history of melanoma attributions compared to first-degree relatives and parent family members. These findings inform the development of risk communication interventions for melanoma families.
Hypoxia regulates the production and activity of glucose transporter-1 and indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase in monocyte-derived endothelial-like cells: possible relevance to infantile haemangioma pathogenesis.	Infantile haemangioma (IH) may present as a precursor area of pallor prior to the initial proliferative phase, which implies that the early lesion may be hypoxic.
Thinking about the role (largely ignored) of heavy metals in cancer prevention: hexavalent chromium and melanoma as a case in point.	Ultraviolet (UV) light exposure accounts for only 40-50% of the attributable risk for cutaneous melanoma (CM); also classical UV-induced lesions are rare in melanomas (especially among CM with NRAS or BRAF mutations). It is therefore likely that an additional environmental factor exists as familial and genetic factors play a role in less than 5%. A large amount of (largely forgotten) epidemiologic data indicates that heavy metal exposure is strongly associated with the development of CM. Also, epidemiologic studies of patients with joint replacement indicate a marked subsequent time-related increase in melanoma in patients with metal-on-metal hip arthroplasties. In these patients chromium and cobalt levels rise to 10x normal and stay elevated at levels two- to threefold normal for at least 10 years. Chromium is widely used in industry for its anticorrosive and steel-strengthening properties and is widespread in everyday materials. Our hypothesis is therefore that chromium, alone or in conjunction with UV, plays a major role in the pathogenesis of CM. We have incubated human neonatal melanocytes for more than 10 weeks in the presence of a wide range and concentrations of metals without effect except by hexavalent chromium Cr(VI)and to a lesser degree Co(+). After prolonged culture, chromium-incubated cells produced foci and when replated secondary colonies formed. We have just begun to study this phenomenon in more detail and studies without and with different wavelengths of UV will be explored. Of interest is that aneuploidy (a universal chromosomal change in cutaneous melanoma) in lymphocytes in patients with hip-on-hip metal prostheses has been demonstrated by others.
Marjolin's warty ulcer.	Marjolin's ulcer refers to malignant change within burn scar. The French surgeon Jean-Nicolas Marjolin is honored with the eponym. Marjolin described the "warty ulcer" in the first edition of Dictionnaire de Medcine. In his description, Marjolin did not actually state that this ulcer represented malignant transformation. Credit for noting the specific association involved in Marjolin's ulcer belongs to Caesar Hawkins, an English Surgeon, who described skin cancer arising in burn and flogging scars.
Vacations to sunny destinations, sunburn, and intention to tan: a cross-sectional study in Denmark, 2007-2009.	Denmark has experienced an increase in melanoma incidence since the 1960s. Exposure to ultraviolet radiation is the main preventable cause of this cancer. We examined current travel to, and sun-related behaviour of Danes at, sunny destinations in relation to their risk for sunburn.
Behavioral counseling to prevent skin cancer: a systematic review for the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force.	More than 2 million cases of skin cancer are diagnosed annually in the United States, and melanoma incidence is increasing.
Isolated skin recurrence following salvage mastectomy for intramammary recurrence (after initial breast conservation therapy): is it a fatal event?	The authors analyzed the outcome of patients with Isolated Skin Recurrence After Salvage Mastectomy (ISRASM) performed after conservative treatment for breast carcinoma, taking into account initial tumor characteristics, intramammary recurrence (first recurrence) characteristics, local skin recurrence (second recurrence) characteristics, and the type of treatment at each stage of the breast cancer continuum.
Surgical management of radiation-associated cutaneous breast angiosarcoma.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the surgical management of radiation-associated cutaneous breast angiosarcoma with an emphasis on surgical margins and choice of reconstruction. Nine cases of angiosarcoma were identified in patients earlier treated with radiotherapy for breast cancer. Breast angiosarcoma was diagnosed a median of 5.25 years following radiotherapy. Median age at diagnosis was 60 years. Surgical treatment consisted of radical mastectomy (four cases), simple mastectomy (two cases) and wide local excision (three cases). Defect reconstruction involved three latissimus dorsi flap reconstructions and four skin grafts. Clear histological margins were achieved in all cases. Median follow-up was 81 months. Six patients were alive and disease-free at the end of the study period. Aggressive surgical resection with wide margins is essential to reduce local recurrence and improve survival.
Sun behaviour patterns and perception of illness among melanoma patients.	 Melanoma is one of the most aggressive skin tumours for which the major risk factor is ultraviolet radiation. Sun protection is extremely important, especially for melanoma patients who, once diagnosed with melanoma, have 500 times greater chance of developing another melanoma than the general population.
PTEN positively regulates UVB-induced DNA damage repair.	Nonmelanoma skin cancer is the most common cancer in the United States, where DNA-damaging ultraviolet B (UVB) radiation from the sun remains the major environmental risk factor. However, the critical genetic targets of UVB radiation are undefined. Here we show that attenuating PTEN in epidermal keratinocytes is a predisposing factor for UVB-induced skin carcinogenesis in mice. In skin papilloma and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), levels of PTEN were reduced compared with skin lacking these lesions. Likewise, there was a reduction in PTEN levels in human premalignant actinic keratosis and malignant SCCs, supporting a key role for PTEN in human skin cancer formation and progression. PTEN downregulation impaired the capacity of global genomic nucleotide excision repair (GG-NER), a critical mechanism for removing UVB-induced mutagenic DNA lesions. In contrast to the response to ionizing radiation, PTEN downregulation prolonged UVB-induced growth arrest and increased the activation of the Chk1 DNA damage pathway in an AKT-independent manner, likely due to reduced DNA repair. PTEN loss also suppressed expression of the key GG-NER protein xeroderma pigmentosum C (XPC) through the AKT/p38 signaling axis. Reconstitution of XPC levels in PTEN-inhibited cells restored GG-NER capacity. Taken together, our findings define PTEN as an essential genomic gatekeeper in the skin through its ability to positively regulate XPC-dependent GG-NER following DNA damage.
E6 and E7 from beta HPV38 cooperate with ultraviolet light in the development of actinic keratosis-like lesions and squamous cell carcinoma in mice.	Cutaneous beta human papillomavirus (HPV) types appear to be involved in the development of non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC); however, it is not entirely clear whether they play a direct role. We have previously shown that E6 and E7 oncoproteins from the beta HPV type 38 display transforming activities in several experimental models. To evaluate the possible contribution of HPV38 in a proliferative tissue compartment during carcinogenesis, we generated a new transgenic mouse model (Tg) where HPV38 E6 and E7 are expressed in the undifferentiated basal layer of epithelia under the control of the Keratin 14 (K14) promoter. Viral oncogene expression led to increased cellular proliferation in the epidermis of the Tg animals in comparison to the wild-type littermates. Although no spontaneous formation of tumours was observed during the lifespan of the K14 HPV38 E6/E7-Tg mice, they were highly susceptible to 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA)/12-0-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) two-stage chemical carcinogenesis. In addition, when animals were exposed to ultraviolet light (UV) irradiation, we observed that accumulation of p21(WAF1) and cell-cycle arrest were significantly alleviated in the skin of Tg mice as compared to wild-type controls. Most importantly, chronic UV irradiation of Tg mice induced the development of actinic keratosis-like lesions, which are considered in humans as precursors of squamous cell carcinomas (SCC), and subsequently of SCC in a significant proportion of the animals. In contrast, wild-type animals subjected to identical treatments did not develop any type of skin lesions. Thus, the oncoproteins E6 and E7 from beta HPV38 significantly contribute to SCC development in the skin rendering keratinocytes more susceptible to UV-induced carcinogenesis.
Dysplastic nevus--a risk factor of developing skin melanoma clinical and epidemiological study with retrospective review of literature.	Dysplastic nevus is a risk factor for developing skin melanoma. The aim was to analyze patients with both skin melanoma and dysplastic nevi. A 10-year retrospective analysis (1999-2009) was conducted at the Department for Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Clinical Centre Vojvodina. During the observed time interval, of 482 patients treated for skin melanoma, 165 (34.2%) had also dysplastic nevi. Melanoma developed more often de novo (67.9%) and 32.1% by malignant alteration. The most dominant type of melanoma was nodular one (70.3%), the most frequent depth being 3.1-4mm (40.6%). The highest incidence of melanoma (32.1%) was in patients aged from 51 to 60 years. The 5- and 10-year survival rates were 72.7% and 50.3%, respectively. Our results correspond to those found in literature except for the fact that the majority of diagnosed melanomas were of nodular type with worse prognosis.
A prospective, population-based study of 40,000 women regarding host factors, UV exposure and sunbed use in relation to risk and anatomic site of cutaneous melanoma.	Prospective cohort studies about cutaneous melanoma (CM) risk are still few. Host factor- and UVR exposure data were collected prospectively by questionnaire in this population-based cohort study including 40,000 Swedish born women, aged 25-64 years at enrolment (1990). Risk for CM (Cox regression and Stepwise Cox regression [SCR], hazard ratios [HRs] with 95% Confidence Intervals [CI]) in relation to risk factors, age groups (older or younger than 40 years) and primary site, were analyzed. In 29,520 women with complete follow-up through 2007, 155 invasive and 60 in situ CM were recorded. High numbers of nevi (HR, 2.9; 95% CI, 1.7-5.0) and heredity (HR, 3.7; 95% CI, 2.0-6.8) were associated with risk for CM. SCR analysis added red hair as a risk factor. Sunbed use >10 times/year increased risk for women <40 years (HR, 2.5; 95% CI, 1.0-6.2) and a trend for risk associated with sunbathing vacations (HR, 1.4; 95% CI, 1.0-2.0) was shown for women >40 years. Trunk melanoma showed correlations with high numbers of nevi (HR, 3.0; 95% CI, 1.2-7.3) and heredity (HR, 3.2; 95% CI, 1.1-9.4). Head/neck site was correlated to sunbathing vacations (HR, 2.5; 95% CI, 1.2-5.3) and heredity (HR, 7.6; 95% CI, 1.8-31.8). Our study supports divergent etiologic pathways to CM, with high numbers of nevi correlated to increased risk for trunk CM. Furthermore, it confirms that high numbers of nevi, red hair and heredity for CM are the most important risk factors and frequent sunbed use might be a risk factor for younger women.
The role of phytonutrients in skin health.	Photodamage is known to occur in skin with exposure to sunlight, specifically ultraviolet (UV) radiation. Such damage includes inflammation, oxidative stress, breakdown of the extracellular matrix, and development of cancer in the skin. Sun exposure is considered to be one of the most important risk factors for both nonmelanoma and melanoma skin cancers. Many phytonutrients have shown promise as photoprotectants in clinical, animal and cell culture studies. In part, the actions of these phytonutrients are thought to be through their actions as antioxidants. In regard to skin health, phytonutrients of interest include vitamin E, certain flavonoids, and the carotenoids, -carotene, lycopene and lutein.
Profuse subcutaneous nodules in a Tunisian patient: Kaposi sarcoma revealing AIDS]	The purpose of this report is to describe a case involving Kaposi sarcoma as the inaugural manifestation of HIV infection at the full-blown AIDS stage. The patient was a 59-year-old Tunisian man who presented with profuse subcutaneous nodules and multiple lymph nodes. Treatment was based on antiretroviral therapy in association with radiotherapy.
Multifocal skin basal cell carcinomata 57 years after topical dry ice treatment.	We report a rare case of simultaneous multiple basal cell carcinomata occurring on the back of a patient who had received dry ice treatment to this area almost 6 decades previously. This is also one of the longest recorded disease-free intervals between skin trauma and basal cell carcinoma development. We discuss the aetiopathology of multiple skin cancers in our patient and the propensity for destructive skin events to predispose to malignancy. 
Cutaneous solar ultraviolet exposure and clinical aspects of photodamage.	Solar ultraviolet (UV) radiation reaching the earth is a combination of UVB (290-320 nm) and UVA (320-400 nm) wavelengths. Since UVA is less energetic than UVB, UVB has long been thought to be the factor responsible for the damaging effects of solar radiation. But with modern tools such as in vitro models, it has been proven that UVA plays a major role. The objective of this review is to show how skin may be exposed to UV light and to highlight the clinical aspects of UV-induced skin damages with the respective contribution of UVB or UVA. Even if UVA is less energetic than UVB, it is more abundant and penetrates deeper into the skin, reaching as far as the dermis. Various factors also influence skin exposure to UV light: the latitude, season, and time of the day. Acute as well as chronic sun exposure induces short- and long-term clinical damages. Erythema and pigmentation are immediate responses of normal human skin exposed to UV radiation. The long-term effects are photoaging and photocarcinogenesis. In particular, UVA appears to play a major role in the deterioration of dermal structure leading to the photoaged appearance of the skin.
Topical photoprotection in childhood and adolescence.	Exposure to sunlight in childhood is often more intense than in adults. Literature data unequivocally show the association between this social behavior and the risk for developing malignant melanoma and non-melanoma skin cancer, even in adulthood. Furthermore, skin photoaging begins already in childhood through inadequate sun exposure. This review aims to guide pediatricians on appropriate measures of topical photoprotection in children and adolescents, which will positively change the future of these patients.
Post-transplant plasmablastic lymphoma of the skin.	Plasmablastic lymphoma (PBL) is a recently described rare variant of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma characterised by its aggressive nature and plasmacytic differentiation. It most frequently arises in the oral cavity of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients. However extra-oral involvement is becoming increasingly recognised, particularly in HIV-negative patients. We report a case of PBL presenting as multiple violaceous nodules and plaques on the leg of a HIV-negative patient, 13-years post-renal transplant. To date, 20 cases of PBL presenting in the skin have been reported. We review and compare the clinico-pathological features of these cases. 
RSK2 as a key regulator in human skin cancer.	Our previous report demonstrated that RSK2 plays an important role in cell proliferation and transformation induced by tumor promoters such as epidermal growth factor mediated through the N-terminal kinase domain of RSK2 in JB6 Cl41 mouse skin epidermal cells in vitro. However, no direct evidence has been reported regarding the relationship of RSK2 activity and human skin cancer. To elucidate the relationship of RSK2 activity and human skin cancer, we examined the effect of knocking down RSK2 expression on epidermal growth factor-induced anchorage-independent transformation in the premalignant HaCaT human skin keratinocyte cell line and on soft agar colony growth of SK-MEL-28 malignant melanoma cells. We found that the phosphorylated protein levels of RSK2 were enhanced in cancer tissues compared with normal tissues in a human skin cancer tissue array. We found that UVB stimulation induced increased in not only the total and phosphorylated protein levels of ERKs and RSK2 but also the nuclear localization and gene expression of RSK2. RSK2 knockdown inhibited proliferation and anchorage-independent transformation of HaCaT cells and soft agar colony growth of malignant melanoma cells. Moreover, RSK2(-/-) mouse embryonic fibroblast (MEF) showed enhanced sub-G(1) accumulation induced by UVB stimulation compared with RSK2(+/+) MEFs, indicating that RSK2 might play an important role in tolerance against stress associated with ultraviolet. Importantly, activated RSK2 protein levels were highly abundant in human skin cancer tissues compared with matched skin normal tissues. Taken together, our results demonstrated that RSK2 plays a key role in neoplastic transformation of human skin cells and in skin cancer growth.
Progeny of Lgr5-expressing hair follicle stem cell contributes to papillomavirus-induced tumor development in epidermis.	Epidermal keratinocytes and hair follicle (HF) stem cells (SCs) expressing oncogenes are competent at developing squamous cell carcinomas (SCCs) in epidermis and HFs, respectively. To determine whether bulge and hair germ (HG) SCs from HF contribute to SCC generation at distant epidermis, the most frequent epidermal region where these lesions arise in human skin, we used a skin cancer mouse model expressing E6 and E7 oncoproteins from Human papillomavirus (HPV) 16 in SCs and basal keratinocytes. This previously described mouse model recapitulates the human skin papillomavirus-induced SCC pathology. We show that E6 and E7 expression promote the expansion of keratin 15 (K15)-expressing cells. These K15(+) aberrant cells exhibit some HGSC markers and diminished expression of Tcf3 and Sox9 hair SC specification genes, which are accumulated in HFs and mislocalized to interfollicular epidermis. Leucine-rich G-protein-coupled receptor 5 (Lgr5)-expressing SCs, localized in the bulge and HG, are the origin of the expanded K15(+) cell population. A large subset of the Lgr5(+) SC progeny, expressing K15 and P-cadherin, is aberrantly mobilized to the upper region of HFs and the epidermis, and accumulates at E6/E7-induced pre-neoplastic lesions and epidermal tumors. These findings indicate that aberrant accumulation of altered SCs in HFs and their subsequent migration to the epidermis contribute to HPV-induced tumor development. 
Focal adhesion kinase is required for -catenin-induced mobilization of epidermal stem cells.	Focal adhesion kinase (FAK) is a non-receptor tyrosine kinase that integrates signals downstream of integrin and growth factor activation. Previously, we have shown that skin-specific loss of fak prevents chemically induced skin carcinogenesis in mice following phorbol ester treatment. In this study, we show that skin-specific deletion of fak prevents mobilization of stem cells within the bulge region of the hair follicle, which are the precursors of papillomas following phorbol ester treatment. We also show that phorbol ester treatment results in activation of-catenin within the skin and that FAK is required for -catenin-induced stem cell mobilization. In addition, inhibition of Src kinase activity, a major binding partner of FAK also prevents stem cell mobilization. We show that FAK is required for the nuclear localization of -catenin in the skin following phorbol ester treatment and the transcriptional activation of the -catenin target gene c-Myc. This provides the first evidence of cross-talk between integrin and Wnt signalling pathways in the control of epidermal stem cells and the early events associated with skin carcinogenesis.
White epidermal nevi at birth in a patient with tuberous sclerosis.	We report a neonate who presented at birth with multiple, scattered, white macerated plaques. Punch biopsy confirmed epidermal nevi. At 3 months of age the patient presented with infantile spasms and, after full evaluation, was diagnosed with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC). We suggest that physicians consider TSC in a neonate with epidermal nevi inconsistent with any described epidermal nevus syndrome.
Radiotherapy-induced basal cell carcinomas of the scalp: are they genetically different?	The treatment of tinea capitis using radiotherapy was introduced at the beginning of the twentieth century. In Israel, between 1949 and 1960, approximately 17,000 children underwent radiotherapy treatments for tinea capitis (actual numbers are probably higher due to irradiation in countries of origin as a prerequisite for immigration). Skin cancer presents a major problem for patients who underwent irradiation for the treatment of tinea capitis [aggressive biological behavior, multiple basal cell carcinomas (BCCs), up to 40 lesions in a single patient, with no predisposing condition such as Gorlin's or Bazex's syndromes]. There are ample data in the literature concerning the molecular changes in ultraviolet (UV) radiation-induced BCCs. However, similar data regarding ionizing radiation-induced BCCs are scarce. One work found higher rates of p53 and PTCH (both are tumor suppressor genes whose alterations are associated with BCC formation and frequency, but not biological behavior) abnormalities in post ionizing radiation BCCs. The absence of documented differences in gene expression that would account for a different biological behavior of radiotherapy-related BCCs, coupled with the aggressive and recurrent nature of these lesions, has propelled us to examine these differences by comparing gene expression in BCCs of the scalps of patients who were previously irradiated for tinea capitis in their childhood and of the scalps of patients who were not.
Saponins from Tribulus terrestris L. protect human keratinocytes from UVB-induced damage.	Chronic exposure to solar UVB radiation damages skin, increasing the risk to develop cancer. Hence the identification of compounds with a photoprotective efficacy is essential. This study examined the role of saponins derived from Tribulus terrestris L. (TT) on the modulation of apoptosis in normal human keratinocytes (NHEK) exposed to physiological doses of UVB and to evaluate their antitumoral properties. In NHEK, TT saponins attenuate UVB-induced programmed cell death through inhibition of intrinsic apoptotic pathway. In squamous cell carcinomas (SCC) TT saponins do not make the malignant keratinocytes more resistant to UVB and determine an enhanced apoptotic response. The photoprotective effect of TT saponins is tightly correlated to the enhancement of NER genes expression and the block of UVB-mediated NF-B activation. Collectively, our study shows experimental evidence that TT has a preventive efficacy against UVB-induced carcinogenesis and the molecular knowledge on the mechanisms through which TT saponins regulate cell death suggests great potential for TT to be developed into a new medicine for cancer patients.
A preliminary study of a video intervention to inform solid organ transplant recipients about skin cancer.	To obtain preliminary evidence on the effect of a skin cancer prevention video for adult solid organ transplant recipients (SOTR) and informational brochures on outcomes of skin cancer knowledge, beliefs, prevention and detection behaviors, and personal agency (self-confidence/personal control) for behaviors.
Localized post-radiation Kaposi sarcoma in a renal transplant immunosuppressed patient.	Organ transplant recipients are at high risk to develop secondary cutaneous neoplasms because of immunosuppression. However, little is known about secondary neoplasms developing within a skin area exposed to radiation therapy in these patients. We report a case of a 45-year-old man with history of kidney transplantation in 2005 and rectal adenocarcinoma in 2006 for which he underwent 2 cycles of chemotherapy and a cycle of radiotherapy. In February 2010, he presented with clustered erythematous-violaceous plaques and nodules of 2-month duration, located on the left buttock in the area previously exposed to radiations. Histological examination revealed a poorly demarcated dermal and subcutaneous proliferation of spindle and partly pleomorphic cells, associated with irregularly shaped vessels that dissected through dermal collagen. Immunohistochemistry showed expression of CD31 and podoplanin. Although a moderate expression of the c-Myc protein was found by immunostaining, no amplification of c-myc gene was detected by fluorescence in situ hybridization. Human herpes virus 8 was positive both on immunohistochemistry and PCR. Based on clinicopathologic findings a diagnosis of iatrogenic Kaposi sarcoma localized in the area treated with radiotherapy was made. Clinical and histopathological features of vascular neoplasms may be overlapping, and correct diagnosis may be difficult, particularly in organ transplant recipients. Only the combination of all available information, including histopathological, immunohistochemical, fluorescence in situ hybridization, and PCR data, permit to achieve a correct diagnosis in particularly difficult setting.
Human papillomaviruses and cancer.	Human papillomaviruses (HPV) are small oncogenic DNA viruses of which more than 200 types have been identified to date. A small subset of these is etiologically linked to the development of anogenital malignancies such as cervical cancer. In addition, recent studies established a causative relationship between these high-risk HPV types and tonsillar and oropharyngeal cancer. Clinical management of cervical cancer and head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCCs) is largely standardized and involves surgical removal of the tumor tissue as well as adjuvant chemoradiation therapy. Notably, the response to therapeutic intervention of HPV-positive HNSCCs has been found to be better as compared to HPV-negative tumors. Although the existing HPV vaccine is solely licensed for the prevention of cervical cancer, it might also have prophylactic potential for the development of high-risk HPV-associated HNSCCs. Another group of viruses, which belongs to the beta-HPV subgroup, has been implicated in nonmelanoma skin cancer, however, the etiology remains to be established. Treatment of HPV-induced nonmelanoma skin cancer is based on local excision. However, topically applied immune-modulating substances represent non-surgical alternatives for the management of smaller cutaneous tumors. In this review we present the current knowledge of the role of HPV in cancer development and discuss clinical management options as well as targets for the development of future intervention therapies. 
MicroRNAs in skin response to UV radiation.	Solar ultraviolet (UV) radiation, an ubiquitous environmental carcinogen, is classified depending on the wavelength, into three regions; short-wave UVC (200-280 nm), mid-wave UVB (280-320 nm), and long-wave UVA (320- 400 nm). The human skin, constantly exposed to UV radiation, particularly the UVB and UVA components, is vulnerable to its various deleterious effects such as erythema, photoaging, immunosuppression and cancer. To counteract these and for the maintenance of genomic integrity, cells have developed several protective mechanisms including DNA repair, cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. The network of damage sensors, signal transducers, mediators, and various effector proteins is regulated through changes in gene expression. MicroRNAs (miRNAs), a group of small non-coding RNAs, act as posttranscriptional regulators through binding to complementary sequences in the 3-untranslated region of their target genes, resulting in either translational repression or target degradation. Recent studies show that miRNAs add an additional layer of complexity to the intricately controlled cellular responses to UV radiation. This review summarizes our current knowledge of the role of miRNAs in the regulation of the human skin response upon exposure to UV radiation. 
Chemopreventive effects of combination of honokiol and magnolol with -santalol on skin cancer developments.	-Santalol is active component of sandalwood oil and has been shown to have chemopreventive effects against chemically and UVB-induced skin cancer development in mice. -Santalol is also shown to have skin permeation enhancing effects. Honokiol and magnolol isolated from Magnolia officinalis bark extract have also been shown to have chemopreventive effects against chemically and UVB-induced skin cancer in mice. This study was conducted to investigate the combination effects of -santalol, honokiol and magnolol to study any additive/synergistic effects to lower the doses required for chemoprevention. Pretreatment of combinations of -santalol with honokiol and magnolol significantly decreased tumor multiplicity upto 75% than control, -santalol, honokiol and magnolol alone in SKH-1 mice. Combination of -santalol with honokiol and magnolol also decreased cell viability, proliferation, and enhanced apotosis in comparison to -santalol, honokiol and magnolol alone in Human epidrmoid carcinoma A431 cells. Overall, the results of present study indicated combinations of -santalol with honokiol and magnolol could provide chemoprevention of skin cancer at lower doses than given alone.
Solar keratoses: photodynamic therapy, cryotherapy, 5-fluorouracil, imiquimod, diclofenac, or what? Facts and controversies.	Actinic keratosis is a common dermatologic condition that may regress, remain stable, or progress to squamous cell carcinoma. Some question whether all actinic keratoses should be routinely treated, whereas others contend that the unpredictable natural history of this disease necessitates treatment to prevent malignant transformation. Available treatments include photodynamic therapy, cryotherapy, 5-fluorouracil, imiquimod, and diclofenac. Each of these options has its advantages and disadvantages, although they all have a place in the management of actinic keratosis. An overview of these treatment modalities is presented, as are the controversies surrounding the treatment of actinic keratosis. 
Influence of treatments on prognosis for vulvar lichen sclerosus: facts and controversies.	Lichen sclerosus (LS) is an inflammatory dermatosis with a predilection for the anogential skin. Vulvar LS can be a debilitating disease, causing pruritus and pain, and it carries the potential for atrophy, scarring, and significant functional impairment. Recently, many advances have been made regarding the etiology and natural history of the disease process; however, much debate still exists regarding the most advantageous medical and surgical management of this disorder. In an effort to provide a comprehensive review on current vulvar LS literature, the following three controversies will be discussed: (1) optimal disease treatment, (2) theories behind LS's oncogenicity and treatments for minimizing malignancy, and (3) the value of surgical treatment for LS. Ultra-potent topical corticosteroids (TCSs) are the first-line treatment for vulvar LS, while topical calcineurin inhibitors (TCIs) remain second-line agents for patients for whom TCS treatment resulted in incomplete resolution of symptoms or adverse events. Due to the relapsing nature of the disease, long-term maintenance therapy is often required. In addition, recent advances have contributed to the understanding of the association between LS and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). While the exact mechanism responsible for LS-associated SCC is not known, immune dysregulation and inflammation may play an important role; therefore, successful treatment of LS should be directed towards alleviation of symptoms and reversal of the underlying histopathologic changes. Patients with LS-associated malignancy, as well as patients who need correction of functionally restrictive, scarring processes, can successfully undergo surgical intervention with tissue conservation. 
Sun exposure causes somatic second-hit mutations and angiofibroma development in tuberous sclerosis complex.	Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is characterized by the formation of tumors in multiple organs and is caused by germline mutation in one of two tumor suppressor genes, TSC1 and TSC2. As for other tumor suppressor gene syndromes, the mechanism of somatic second-hit events in TSC tumors is unknown. We grew fibroblast-like cells from 29 TSC skin tumors from 22 TSC subjects and identified germline and second-hit mutations in TSC1/TSC2 using next-generation sequencing. Eighteen of 22 (82%) subjects had a mutation identified, and 8 of the 18 (44%) subjects were mosaic with mutant allele frequencies of 0 to 19% in normal tissue DNA. Multiple tumors were available from four patients, and in each case, second-hit mutations in TSC2 were distinct indicating they arose independently. Most remarkably, 7 (50%) of the 14 somatic point mutations were CC>TT ultraviolet 'signature' mutations, never seen as a TSC germline mutation. These occurred exclusively in facial angiofibroma tumors from sun-exposed sites. These results implicate UV-induced DNA damage as a cause of second-hit mutations and development of TSC facial angiofibromas and suggest that measures to limit UV exposure in TSC children and adults should reduce the frequency and severity of these lesions. 
Effect of appearance-based education compared with health-based education on sunscreen use and knowledge: a randomized controlled trial.	Appearance-based education shows promise in promoting sunscreen use although resource-intensive methods used in prior studies preclude wide dissemination. Appearance-based video education can be made easily accessible.
The cutting edge of skin cancer in transplant recipients: scientific retreat of international transplant Skin Cancer Collaborative and Skin Cancer in Organ Transplant Patients Europe.	The International Transplant Skin Cancer Collaborative (ITSCC) is an organization of more than 300 physicians and scientists focused on the study of dermatologic changes following solid organ transplantation. Transplant patients have a 100-fold increased risk of developing skin cancer. In October 2012, ITSCC and its European counterpart Skin Cancer in Organ Transplant Patients Europe held a joint biennial retreat in Essex, MA to discuss novel findings in the pathogenesis and management of skin cancer in solid organ transplant recipients. This meeting report is a summary of the novel findings discussed. 
Hair follicle disruption facilitates pathogenesis to UVB-induced cutaneous inflammation and basal cell carcinoma development in Ptch(+/-) mice.	Hairless mice carrying homozygous mutations in hairless gene manifest rudimentary hair follicles (HFs), epidermal cysts, hairless phenotype, and enhanced susceptibility to squamous cell carcinomas. However, their susceptibility to basal cell carcinomas (BCCs), a neoplasm considered originated from HF-localized stem cells, is unknown. To demonstrate the role of HFs in BCC development, we bred Ptch(+/-)/C57BL6 with SKH-1 hairless mice, followed by brother-sister cross to get F2 homozygous mutant (hairless) or wild-type (haired) mice. UVB-induced inflammation was less pronounced in shaved haired than in hairless mice. In hairless mice, inflammatory infiltrate was found around the rudimentary HFs and epidermal cysts. Expression of epidermal IL1f6, S100a8, vitamin D receptor, repetin, and major histocompatibility complex II, biomarkers depicting susceptibility to cutaneous inflammation, was also higher. In these animals, HF disruption altered susceptibility to UVB-induced BCCs. Tumor onset in hairless mice was 10 weeks earlier than in haired littermates. The incidence of BCCs was significantly higher in hairless than in haired animals; however, the magnitude of sonic hedgehog signaling did not differ significantly. Overall, 100% of hairless mice developed >12 tumors per mouse after 32 weeks of UVB therapy, whereas haired mice developed fewer than three tumors per mouse after 44 weeks of long-term UVB irradiation. Tumors in hairless mice were more aggressive than in haired littermates and manifested decreased E-cadherin and enhanced mesenchymal proteins. These data provide novel evidence that disruption of HFs in Ptch(+/-) mice enhances cutaneous susceptibility to inflammation and BCCs.
Scalp fibroma: a rare cutaneous manifestation of tuberous sclerosis.	We report a case of a 23-year-old woman with a history of generalised tonic-clonic seizures, reddish brown maculopapular swelling over the face and an enlarging swelling over the scalp. Physical examinations revealed angiofibroma of the face and other typical cutaneous lesions of tuberous sclerosis, for example, shagreen patch and periungual fibroma. Scalp swelling was labelled as fibroma by dermatologists, which was further supported by the histopathological findings. Fibroma of the face is one of the commonest lesions, however, fibroma of the scalp is a rarely described entity. 
Skin involvement in leukemia.	Skin infiltration in leukaemia occurs rarely. We describe here four such cases of acute leukaemia. In two, the skin infiltration was evident at presentation; in the other two, it developed while on treatment. The lesions varied from maculopapular to tumorous stage. Complete remission could be achieved with chemotherapy, however, the long term prognosis was poor.
Grenz ray-induced nonmelanoma skin cancer.	In 28 patients, nonmelanoma skin cancers developed in areas previously exposed to grenz rays. In 17 patients who did not have psoriasis, no other relevant carcinogenic exposure could be incriminated. Women were more often affected than men. Most of the tumors were basal cell cancers, and most of the patients had multiple tumors. No threshold dose could be established. The distribution of the latency time among patients without psoriasis was strictly normal (median 18 years). These observations suggest that usual therapeutic doses of grenz rays, as a single agent, are capable of causing skin cancer, but only in those persons who are abnormally sensitive to x-rays.
Apparent absence of a benign precursor lesion: implications for the pathogenesis of malignant melanoma.	This review relates concepts derived from the study of chemically induced skin cancer in animal models to the pathogenesis of malignant melanoma in humans. Most chemically induced experimental cancers in animals, including melanomas in rodents, arise within a benign precursor lesion. The initiation-promotion-progression sequence is a central concept in animal models for carcinogenesis. Many human melanomas appear to arise from epidermal melanocytes, with no associated precursor lesion. This article considers why there is no apparent precursor in many human melanomas and the consequences of this absence. Melanocyte physiology and factors that govern escape from defenses such as DNA repair, local tissue environment, and immunity presumably influence melanocyte conversion to melanoma. These factors may determine the absence of a precursor lesion in primary melanomas. In addition, it is possible that some human melanomas arise by cellular mechanisms different from those causing cancer in rodent models. Both molecular and prospective clinical studies will be required to explain this apparent paradox in the pathogenesis of melanoma. A similar approach may help to explain the origin of basal cell carcinoma and perhaps other human cancers that appear to arise directly from normal cells. From a clinical point of view, the absence of an identifiable, benign precursor lesion requires even greater emphasis on melanoma prevention. Research on mechanisms of ultraviolet carcinogenesis indicates that appropriate postexposure treatments may be useful in preventing long-term consequences of sunburn, including melanoma.
Subcutaneous amyloid-tumor of beta-2-microglobulin origin in a long-term hemodialysis patient.	beta 2-Microglobulin (beta 2M)-derived amyloidosis has become a major concern in long-term hemodialysis patients. Clinical symptomatology is largely restricted to the articular and periarticular sites and in rare cases systemic manifestations have been described. We present a long-term hemodialysis patient, who after 16 years of hemodialysis with regenerated cellulosic membranes not only had a bilateral carpal tunnel syndrome, cystic bone translucencies and humeroscapular periarthritis but also developed two subcutaneous tumors in both gluteal regions, causing discomfort when sitting. Histology, immunohistology and electron microscopy of the tumor from the right side showed that it consisted of beta 2M-derived amyloid with concurrent scattered amyloid infiltration of the overlying skin. This report therefore adds a new clinical manifestation to the symptomatology of this type of amyloid.
Primary neuroendocrine carcinoma of the skin: histologic, immunohistochemical and ultrastructural study of a case with highly aggressive biological behavior]	We report a histological, immunohistochemical and ultrastructural study of a case of neuroendocrine carcinoma of the skin, which occurred in a 52 years old woman in the dermal, subcutis and soft tissues of the left buttock. Clinically this neoplasm, which was related to intramuscular injections and a to a following abscess, had rapidly reached unusual dimension compared with other cases of neuroendocrine carcinoma of the skin reported in the literature. The patient died three months after presentation with distant metastases. A variable percentage of the neoplastic cells was positive for low molecular weight cytokeratins (CK), neurofilaments (NF), neuron specific enolase (NSE) and occasionally for vaso-intestinal polypeptide (VIP). Ultrastructural investigations showed two types of neoplastic cells, identified for some features of the nucleus and of the cytoplasm; these two groups of cells are, in our opinion, related to different stages of cellular development. Our results, in agreement with some observations reported in the literature, give evidence of a possible origin of neuroendocrine carcinoma of the skin from an undifferentiated cell which is capable of neuroendocrine or ectodermal differentiation.
Hair cycle and the histogenesis of pillar tumours.	In a study of 50 tumours of pilar origin, it was observed that tumours arise from each cell type depending upon the phase of the hair cycle. Thus nevoid lesions arise from the pluripotent cells of the early anagen phase; tumours from the hair matrix, outer root sheath and inner root sheath arise during the anagen phase, and the keratoacanthomas during the interphase between anagen and telogen. Basal cell epitheliomas can arise at any phase. It was observed that the tumours arising during the anagen phase from the fully differentiated follicles formed the bulk (88%) and the keratoacanthoma simulating the catagen/telogen phase was rare in consonance with the length of each phase. It is proposed that the inner root sheath tumours be named trichilemmomas and the outer root sheath tumours trichochlamydomas to distinguish them from one another.
Skin cancer and papillomaviruses in cattle.	We examined proliferative lesions on the sun-exposed, unpigmented skin of 13 cattle. Ages of animals at first examination ranged from 4 to 15 years, and 4 were observed for from one to 3 years, during which time progression to malignancy occurred in 2 of them. Early lesions consisted of keratin scales and horns; histology showed underlying acanthosis and hyperkeratosis. Advanced lesions were either squamous cell carcinomas or basaloid tumours with sebaceous and/or squamous differentiation; some were locally invasive but no metastases were found in the 6 animals that were available for necropsy. All 3 types of lesion could occur on the same animal. In early lesions from 11 of 12 animals, there was evidence for the presence of papillomavirus, either virions or viral DNA, the latter detected by gel electrophoresis and/or molecular hybridization. Viral DNA was also detected in 3 basaloid tumours and 2 squamous cell carcinomas from 4 animals. The DNA bound to a probe of bovine papillomavirus type 1 DNA under conditions of low stringency. We suggest that both infection with papillomavirus and exposure to sunlight, possibly in conjunction with other factors such as a period of photosensitization, are involved in the production of this spectrum of proliferative lesions, which bear some resemblance to human skin cancer.
Cytomegaloviruses and Kaposi sarcoma]	The cause of Kaposi's sarcoma is still unknown. Apart from genetic influences, the data available at present indicate that cytomegaloviruses may play a certain role. Serological investigations as well as results from molecular biology techniques seem to point to an association. However, whether the association is indeed causal remains to be determined.
Some acute effects of monochromatic ultraviolet B irradiation on mouse epidermis measured by the tetrazolium-reduction test and determination of DT-diaphorase activity, with reference to carcinogenesis.	Some acute epidermal effects of monochromatic ultraviolet B (UVB) irradiation on hairless mouse skin were measured by the tetrazolium test (TZT), and by determining the DT-diaphorase activity in epidermal cells. Dose response and time course studies were carried out after UVB irradiation at 280, 290, 297 and 302 nm. Appropriate UV doses at all the wavelengths increased the cellular deposition of formazan (TZT). At higher doses the epidermal cells became too injured to react. Wavelengths at 280 and 290 nm seemed more injurious than those at 297 and 302 nm. There was, however, no increase in DT-diaphorase activity after UVB irradiation. This indicates that the increased formazan deposition (TZT) after UVB is more likely to be caused mainly by membrane effects. Detoxification mechanisms which activate DT-diaphorase, as often seen after cellular contact with chemical carcinogens, are not involved.
Regulation of the immune response against UV-induced skin cancers: specificity of helper cells and their susceptibility to UV-induced suppressor cells.	The purpose of this study was to determine the role of T helper (Th) cells in the immune response to UV-induced tumors. Repeated exposure of mice to UV radiation results in the production of suppressor T lymphocytes that facilitate tumor growth by inhibiting host immunity. To investigate whether the suppressor T cells inhibit the response to UV tumors by blocking the generation of Th, we employed an indirect method for measuring helper cell activity. We found that Th were produced in normal mice after immunization with UV-induced tumors. These Th appeared to be specific for the immunizing tumors, in contrast to the UV-induced suppressor cells, which recognize UV-induced tumors as a group. The suppressor T cells responsible for inhibiting tumor rejection have no effect on tumor-specific helper cell activity in vitro. However, UV-induced suppressor T cells transferred into unirradiated mice seem to block the generation of helper cell activity after immunization with UV-produced tumors. These results suggest the UV-induced suppressor cells may prevent tumor rejection by blocking the generation of Th.
Sense in the sun.	Sunlight causes more cancers in man than does any other known carcinogen. Studies in this country more than 20 years ago implicating ultra-violet light as a factor in the aetiology of malignant melanoma are being ratified by epidemiologic studies in the United States. In the US, the death rate from melanoma has doubled in the last 15 years. Australian cancer registries have shown this to be so (from recorded deaths in capital city registries) for at least two decades. Figures for prevalence and incidence are not available for the non-melanoma epidermal cancers. Routine application of effective topical sunscreens could feasibly reduce the incidence of skin cancers and other skin disorders associated with chronic insolation. Oral photoprotectants are in their infancy, but show promise.
Bovine papillomavirus genome elicits skin tumours in transgenic mice.	Transmission of the bovine papillomavirus-1 (BPV-1) genome through the mouse germ line results in the heritable formation of fibropapillomas of the skin, a tissue-specific phenotype analogous to that observed in natural BPV-1 infection of cattle. Oncogenesis is slow, with tumours first arising at 8-9 months of age, usually in areas prone to wounding. Extrachromosomal BPV-1 DNA is detected in all tumours, whereas normal tissues show only integrated DNA.
Beta-carotene therapy for erythropoietic protoporphyria and other photosensitivity diseases.	This paper describes the development of the use of carotenoid pigments in the treatment of light-sensitive skin diseases. It also discusses the animal and human studies involved in determining whether carotenoids have any anti-cancer activity. The possible mechanisms of carotenoid photoprotective and anti-cancer actions are briefly discussed.
External expressions of internal malignancy.	Paraneoplastic conditions are cancer-connected but are not produced as a direct effect of the tumor or metastasis. Some antedate the appearance of the internal malignancy; some run a course parallel to the tumor; some follow a pattern independent of the neoplasm. They occur in a small minority of patients with cancer and are, for the most part, of unknown cause. When an external disorder is present, it may act as a marker of hidden malignancy and thus contribute to its detection, or it may serve as an indicator of successful treatment. Many of the conditions described occur commonly without any underlying malignancy, but an unusual frequency of association with cancer makes their presence significant.
Identifying people at high risk of cutaneous malignant melanoma: results from a case-control study in Western Australia.	To assess whether screening people at high risk of malignant melanoma would be effective in reducing the mortality from the disease data from 400 case-control pairs in a study of cutaneous malignant melanoma conducted in Western Australia during 1980-1 were used to predict the risk of melanoma in the remaining 111 pairs. All variables previously shown to be associated with a decrease or increase in the incidence of melanoma were considered for inclusion in a single conditional logistic regression model of the incidence of melanoma in the randomly chosen subset of 400 case-control pairs. Five of these variables--number of raised naevi on the arms, arrival in Australia before 10 years of age, history of non-melanocytic skin cancer, time spent outdoors in summer from the age of 10 to 24, and family history of melanoma--provided good discrimination between patients and controls in this sample and the 111 other case-control pairs. Among the 222 subjects in these other case-control pairs a group defined as being at high risk of melanoma by a risk score derived from these five variables contained 60 (54%) of the patients with melanoma but only 18 (16%) of the controls. These data suggest that in Western Australia more than half of all new patients with melanoma arise in an identifiable subpopulation constituting less than one fifth of the whole population. Identifying this subpopulation and screening it regularly for cutaneous malignant melanoma could be cost effective in reducing mortality from this disease.
Insect bite associated Kaposi's sarcoma with oral lesions.	A case of Kaposi's sarcoma with oral, pharyngeal and extremity lesions is reported. The first lesion appeared on the spot of an insect bite on the left leg during a stay in the Mediterranean area. Possible viral transmission by this route is discussed.
Somatomedin C as tentative pathogenic factor in neurofibromatosis.	The distribution of somatomedin C (Sm-C; insulin-like growth factor I; IGF-I) immunoreactivity was examined in biopsies from three patients having the diagnosis neurofibromatosis established on clinical and histopathological criteria. All biopsies showed increased Sm-C immunoreactivity limited to areas with neurofibromas. Schwann cells, adjacent spindle-shaped fibroblast-like cells and newly formed blood vessels were positive. In addition, Sm-C immunoreactivity could be demonstrated in cells in the buccal epithelium. There was faint or no Sm-C immunoreactivity in biopsies from normal tissue of the patients and in specimens from control subjects. We propose that an abnormally increased local production of Sm-C, most likely by Schwann cells, forms a link in the chain of pathogenic events resulting in the disease neurofibromatosis.
Jumping translocation of chromosome 14 in a skin squamous cell carcinoma from a xeroderma pigmentosum patient.	The cytogenetic study of a case of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma developed in a child affected by xeroderma pigmentosum is described. In this paratetraploid tumor, virtually all mitoses had the following rearrangements: i(1q), i(1p), t(3q14q), del(9p), and der(19)t(8;19). In addition, there were several deletions of 1p and 1q. The del(9p) likely occurred as the first rearrangement. The distal segment of the short arm of chromosome #9 and the long arm of #19 and #22 were the most underrepresented and chromosome #6 the most overrepresented chromosome or chromosome segment. The most striking anomaly detected was a jumping translocation of chromosome #14, involved with chromosomes #1, #3, #5, #7, #9, #14, and #22. The breakage of chromosome #14 always occurred on the short arm.
Kaposi's sarcoma as the first manifestation of AIDS]	We report herein a case of Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome in a 38 years old man with Kaposi's sarcoma, which evolution was fulminant in some months. The clinical, pathological and pathogenic characteristics of Kaposi's sarcoma in this syndrome are discussed.
Kaposi's sarcoma in a renal transplant patient receiving cyclosporine.	A patient of Middle-Eastern descent developed Kaposi's sarcoma of the skin and lymph nodes after renal transplantation while receiving medical immunosuppression, including the use of cyclosporine. The clinical presentation of this patient resembled that of the HTLV-III-associated Kaposi's sarcoma. The tumors totally regressed seven weeks after cessation of immunotherapy. This case, along with other recently reported cases of Kaposi's sarcoma in postrenal transplant patients receiving cyclosporine, illustrates a rare complication of current immunosuppressive therapy.
Risk factors for cutaneous melanoma. A practical method of recognizing predisposed individuals.	Cutaneous melanoma is rapidly becoming a potentially curable cancer if it is detected and properly treated in an early phase of development. Unlike other cancers, which are usually hidden from detection until they are relatively large or metastatic disease has occurred, cutaneous melanoma is readily detectable simply by examining the skin. Information is now available that will be useful in selecting individuals at greatest risk. The most important melanoma risk factors (in decreasing order of importance) for a given individual are as follows: a persistently changed or changing mole, adulthood, irregular varieties of pigmented lesions (including dysplastic moles and lentigo maligna), a congenital mole, Caucasian race, a previous cutaneous melanoma, a family history of cutaneous melanoma, immunosuppression, sun sensitivity, and excessive sun exposure. Selective screening and appropriate treatment of individuals who have these risk factors may reduce the morbidity and mortality of cutaneous melanoma.
Dysplastic epidermal change in immunosuppressed patients with renal transplants.	The prevalence of non-melanoma skin cancer has been studied in a group of 85 patients who have undergone renal transplantation. We also investigated the relationship between the development of neoplastic lesions and the duration of immunosuppression, previous sun exposure and infection with human papilloma virus. The overall prevalence of neoplastic and pre-neoplastic epidermal lesions in the group was 25 per cent, higher than that previously reported in studies from the United Kingdom. In patients who had survived for more than 80 months after transplantation the prevalence of these lesions was 38 per cent. There was no apparent relationship between sun exposure or skin type and the development of cutaneous neoplasia, despite the fact that the majority of lesions were found on sun-exposed sites. Exposure to ultraviolet radiation (UVR) is probably important as an initiator or co-factor rather than as a precipitant. In both sexes, high sun exposure was associated with the presence of viral warts. In females, there was a strong association between the presence of viral warts and the occurrence of neoplastic lesions elsewhere, giving support to the hypothesis that ultraviolet radiation may be acting as a co-factor in virally-mediated oncogenesis. Epidermal cell kinetic studies in 39 patients using in-vitro exposure to 3H thymidine and autoradiographic techniques showed no difference between the patients with neoplastic lesions and unaffected patients, and is not therefore a useful method of identifying an 'at risk' group.
Residual dysplastic and other nevi in superficial spreading melanoma. Clinical correlations and association with sun damage.	Excision biopsies of 500 invasive superficial spreading melanomas were examined for evidence of residual melanocytic dysplasia (remnants of dysplastic nevi). Melanocytic dysplasia was identified in 32.4% of tumors. Remnants of nevi without melanocytic dysplasia were found in 9.8%. Sun damage as evidenced by solar elastosis was histologically estimated in contiguous skin. Patients' age at diagnosis, tumor site, pathologic stage, evidence of tumor regression, and coexisting sun damage were correlated with the presence or absence of melanocytic dysplasia. Patients whose tumors displayed residual dysplasia were younger and demonstrated a more favorable tumor stage and less evidence of sun damage. Melanomas on the trunk were more likely to be associated with melanocytic dysplasia than those from other areas. The findings support the belief that dysplastic nevi have an important role in the genesis of superficial spreading melanoma. The influence of ultraviolet radiation in the development of dysplastic nevi and in their potential malignant progression is discussed.
Effect of ultraviolet-B radiation on the in vivo growth of murine melanoma cells.	The role of UV radiation in the development of malignant melanoma has yet to be clearly defined. The purpose of these studies was to determine whether UV irradiation of mice produces local or systemic alterations that increase the in vivo growth of transplanted melanoma cells. K-1735 melanoma cells were injected into the external ears of syngeneic C3H mice. UV irradiation of the mice before or at the time of injection of the melanoma cells accelerated the appearance of the tumors. The effect was observed when melanoma cells were transplanted directly into the site of UV irradiation, but not when they were injected into an unirradiated site. The initial survival of radiolabeled melanoma cells at the site of inoculation was not altered by UV irradiation of the host, suggesting that the accelerated appearance of tumors was due to an increase in the clonogenic potential of cells injected into UV-irradiated skin. The effect of UV irradiation on the development of other syngeneic tumors was also investigated. The outgrowth of a second melanoma was also accelerated in UV-irradiated mice, whereas the growth of a UV-induced fibrosarcoma, a methylcholanthrene-induced fibrosarcoma, and a spontaneous hepatocarcinoma was not affected. These results suggest that, in addition to its carcinogenic activity, UV radiation may contribute to the incidence of cutaneous melanoma because of a local effect on the skin that stimulates melanoma development.
Basal cell carcinomas arising in chronic lymphedema.	A unique case is presented of basal cell carcinomas arising in chronic lymphedema of the lower extremity. The lesions were successfully treated with the CO2 laser.
Clinical and histologic features of nevi with emphasis on treatment approaches.	A nevus is a cutaneous lesion characterized histologically by clustering and disorganization of a variety of cell types in the skin including the epidermis, appendages, melanocytes, and their precursor cells. Commonly, a nevus is congenital but it may be acquired. Owing to the prevalence and variations of melanocytic nevi and their association with malignancy, this article discusses the development, classification, histology, and clinical characteristics of nevi with an emphasis on the relationship to malignancy. Recommendations are provided for treatment of these benign lesions.
Nonpigmented premalignant lesions of the skin.	This article presents a survey of some of the nonpigmented cutaneous lesions that have the propensity or possibility to progress or transform into malignancies. For each lesion, the author discusses clinical appearance and course, histologic features, and general recommendations for treatment.
Keratitis, ichthyosis, and deafness (KID) syndrome. Vertical transmission and death from multiple squamous cell carcinomas.	A father and daughter had typical clinical features of the keratitis, ichthyosis, and deafness (KID) syndrome, as described by Skinner et al in 1981. To our knowledge, ours is the first observation of a vertical transmission of this syndrome. The mechanism of inheritance is uncertain. These two patients as well as the 26 previously described exhibited a typical hyperkeratotic eruption, which should not be confused with ichthyosis. The characteristic features are diffuse hyperkeratosis, keratotic plaques, reticulated hyperkeratosis on the face, peribuccal grooves, and heavy-grain leatherlike keratoderma. The occurrence of multiple squamous cell carcinomas underlines the seriousness of this congenital ectodermal defect. Etretinate can relieve the lesions without actually improving the chances of survival.
Acquired ichthyosis in AIDS.	A case of a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and acquired ichthyosis in conjunction with Kaposi's sarcoma is reported. The possibility of a connection between acquired ichthyosis and immune deficiency, particularly AIDS, is presented.
Melanoma of the skin is not caused by ultraviolet radiation but by a chemical xenobiotic.	The putative ultraviolet (u.v.) carcinogenesis of cutaneous melanoma bears sufficient inconsistencies as to seriously challenge this theory. A more attractive hypothesis is the incrimination of a hitherto unknown chemical xenobiotic. This hypothesis explains the dramatic increase in incidence rates in most affluent countries during the last two or three decades. It also explains the particular risk of populations of high socio-economic status and the increased risk of indoor workers. It finally explains the urban-rural and coastal-inland trends observed in many countries with high incidence rates.
Number of melanocytic nevi as a major risk factor for malignant melanoma.	A study of 121 melanoma patients and 139 control subjects from the University of California, San Francisco clinics was conducted among whites to examine the relationship between number of melanocytic nevi and cutaneous melanoma. Nevi that measured 2 mm or more in diameter were counted over the body by a dermatologist and a dermatology fellow. The average number of nondysplastic melanocytic nevi that were 2 mm or greater in diameter was 97 for melanoma patients and 36 for control subjects (p less than 0.001). Relative risks were 1.6 (p = 0.43) for 11 to 25 nevi, 4.4 (p = 0.01) for 26 to 50 nevi, 5.4 (p = 0.008) for 51 to 100 nevi, and 9.8 (p = 0.001) for more than 100 nondysplastic melanocytic nevi. Relative risks were 3.8 (p = 0.001) for 1 to 5 dysplastic nevi and 6.3 (p = 0.003) for 6 or more of these lesions. Report of blistering sunburns or of a previous skin cancer and having red or blond hair at the age of 20 were also independently associated with an increased risk of cutaneous melanoma. If confirmed in larger studies, the results presented on number of nevi and melanoma risk suggest a readily identifiable melanoma-prone group that could be followed to detect early malignant melanoma.
Ionizing radiation enhances malignant progression of mouse skin tumors.	Chemical carcinogenesis in mouse skin has been divided into the process of initiation, promotion and progression. Recently we have shown that ionizing radiation acts as an initiator in this model system. In this paper we describe a three-stage experiment using ionizing radiation in the third stage of mouse skin carcinogenesis. CD-1 mice were initiated with N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG) followed by biweekly promotion with 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA). After 20 weeks of promotion, the animals were treated with either acetone, TPA (twice a week for 2 weeks) or eight fractions of 1 MeV electrons (1 Gy/fraction over a period of 10 days). The conversion of papillomas to squamous cell carcinomas was 80% for animals treated with ionizing radiation compared with 25% for tumor-bearing animals treated with TPA. Ionizing radiation increased the number of cumulative carcinomas per group. The lack of an increase in the number of cumulative papillomas per group due to ionizing radiation suggests that the dose and fractionation protocol used in this study enhanced the progression of pre-existing papillomas.
Induction of cutaneous plasma cell tumor as a complication of adjuvant immunotherapy with methanol extraction residue of bacillus Calmette-Gurin.	Methanol extraction residue (MER), a cell wall fraction of bacillus Calmette-Gurin, has been reported to exhibit immunomodulating properties which permit its successful use as an adjuvant of immunotherapy in cancer patients. Its beneficial immunostimulatory effects are generally thought to be due to nonspecific stimulation of cell-mediated immunity. Little attention has been focused on its humoral stimulating properties. A case is presented of a patient undergoing treatment with adjuvant immunotherapy with MER for malignant lymphoma who developed a cutaneous plasma cell tumor at the injection site of the drug. This complication may represent the result of enhanced humoral immunity induced by the MER treatment. The development of a cutaneous plasma cell tumor must be added to the list of known MER toxicities, and may constitute an indication for the discontinuation of treatment with this agent.
Post-burn squamous cell cancers in Nigerians.	Eighteen patients with post-burn skin cancers seen at Enugu over an 8-year period have been reviewed. All the tumours were well differentiated squamous cell carcinomas. The mean age of the patients was 36 years and the incubation period of 17.5 years was shorter than in previously reported studies. An aggressive policy in the treatment of these tumours by surgery alone has resulted in an 87% 5-year survival rate for lower limb tumours. When secondary tumours due to pre-existing dermatological diseases are excluded, post-burn skin epitheliomas constituted the largest group of squamous cell skin cancers seen in Enugu, Nigeria.
UV radiation-induced skin tumors in Monodelphis domestica.	Chronic exposure of the skin of the South American opossum (Monodelphis domestica) to ultraviolet radiation (UVR) from an FS-40 sunlamp (280-400 nm) 3 times per week for a total of 200 exposures resulted in the appearance of actinic keratoses, fibrosarcomas, squamous cell carcinomas and keratoacanthomas. At the higher doses of UVR used in this study, moderate to severe hyperplasia was also observed. The susceptibility of this animal to the induction of skin tumors by UVR in conjunction with the capacity to enzymatically photoreactive pyrimidine dimers in cutaneous DNA identifies this animal as a useful model in determining the role of pyrimidine dimers in skin tumor induction by UVR.
Development of lipomas on a surgical wound following radial saphenectomy. An unusual complication]	Radical saphenectomy is a common practice in treatment of the varicose veins of the limbs, and its early and late complications are very well known. Nevertheless, the authors have observed an exceptional pathologic picture in one patient operated five years ago, which developed multiple nodular lipomas in the sites of the surgical scars for varicectomy. This unusual complication, in spite of lack of clear etiopathogenesis, suggest to reduce as less as possible the surgical subcutaneous traumatism.
Aggressive squamous cell carcinoma of the skin after chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	We report two cases of squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the skin subsequent to chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Both cases had an unusually aggressive course for a nonmelanoma skin malignancy with extensive metastases in both, resulting in death in one patient. A literature review supports the likelihood of an increased incidence of SCC in patients with CLL. Though the mechanism is unknown, immunosuppression may play a central role. We urge patients with CLL to avoid exposure to direct sun. Any questionable skin lesion should be biopsied early, and completely excised if it is a tumor. The patient should also be examined thoroughly for metastatic disease via subsequent follow-up visits.
Photocarcinogenesis: a review.	Clinical observations and epidemiologic studies indicate that the sun is the primary stimus for most human skin can formation. However, investigations directly confirming this association as well as defining the action spectra, time-dose relationships, energy level requirements, etc., have been confined to animal experimentation. Studies in which gross methods are used indicate that the experimental carcinogenic action spectrum falls primarily between 280 and 320 nm. Quantitative studies and tumor promotion investigations indicate that UV-induced cancer formation begins with the initial exposure. Heat, wind, and moisture stimulate UV carcinogenesis. Also, exogenous chemicals may influence carcinogenesis as photosensitizers such as 8-MOP, as additive carcinogens as noted with DMBA, or as promoters as described for Croton oil, retinoic acid, and BCNU. Qualitative studies indicate that progressive alterations occur in the epidermal-dermal basement membrane and dermal conncecive tissue and mucopolysaccharides associated with the progressive development of epidermal cancers. Malignant melanomas have also been induced experimentally in hairless mice with UV energy. Mechanistically, immunologic alterations and effects on DNA have received the most attention. Tumor-specific antigenicity as well as antigen deletion has been demonstrated. Immune suppression by antilymphocyte serum and certain chemicals has led to stimulation of tumor development. Perhaps the most exciting new information relates to the demonstration that chronically UV-irradiated mice have not rejected highly antigenic UV-induced cancers. This indicated that UV irradiation specifically altered the immunologic responses of the animals to these tumors. Within recent years, the influence of DNA injury and repair on cutaneous carcinogenesis has received a great deal of attention. This has been partly due to the demonstration of defective repair of UV-induced DNA damage in patients with XP. The primary photosensitive problem in these patients is an inordinate sensitivity to the carcinogenic effects of sunlight. However, correlation of DNA injury and repair directly with cancer formation has not been accomplished.
Comedo-nevus of the palmoplantar and scalp regions]	A case of naevus comedonicus on the palms and soles and scalp is reported. A similar case was previously reported by Leppard. The rare localization of this folicular hamartoma is commented.
Dermatologic radiotherapy--R.I.P.	A questionnaire returned by nearly 3,000 dermatologists indicates that about 75 percent of them have discontinued completely the use of x-ray therapy in acne. An additional 11 percent use it in less than 10 percent of their patients who have this disease."Hazards" constituted the greatest deterrent to the use of ionizing radiation. Yet the assumption that it can cause skin cancers, in the absence of radiodermatitis, is not proved and its importance as an additive energy to solar radiation is considered to be limited. About one-third of the respondents expressed belief that better treatments were available for this condition. An equal number were concerned with public resistance to this therapeutic agent, which, however, seems to be more apparent than real. Probably the major roadblock was posed by the dermatologic training centers where teaching was withheld despite a rule of the American Board of Dermatology favoring it. Other factors mentioned with some frequency included ineffectiveness of radiotherapy, lack of equipment, and fiscal and medicolegal considerations. This study indicates that dermatologic radiation therapy is passing into oblivion.
Clear cell acanthoma]	We present a case of clear cell acanthoma localized on inferior third of the external portion of the left leg, the evolution was of one and a half year, with previous insect bites on the area. We insist on the histologic appearance, characterized by hyperplasia of epithelial cells, intercellular bridges, and presence of acidophilic hyalins intracytoplasmiques. Nous postulons la possibility of a viral etiology, transmitted by insect bite, of an epidermotropal virus.
Coincidence of multiple cylindroma and trichoepitheliomas (Brooke-Spiegler-Syndrome)]	The coincidence of cyclindromas and trichoepitheliomas has been subject of a rather broad discussion for its principal pathogenetic aspects. Clinical cases, however, have only rarely been observed. Therefore, a case-report is given. Although the heredity of the Brooke-Spiegler syndrome seems well established by now, there is no anamnestic data in our case.
De novo malignant tumours in renal transplant recipients.	Malignant tumours developed in 8 of the 209 patients who received renal transplants at Groote Schuur Hospital, Cape Town, between October 1967 and December 1979. One of these patients developed disseminated carcinoma of the breast, a disease which had been present in the donor. He was therefore excluded from the study. At 3,4% the incidence of de novo malignant tumours in transplant recipients is half that previously reported in South Africa. No case of reticulum cell sarcoma or intracranial lymphoma was found.
A late complication of a diagnostic mediastinoscopy.	A 69-year-old man with a moderately well differentiated squamous-cell carcinoma of the lung, underwent a mediastinoscopy. All histological examinations of the mediastinal nodes were negative. The patient was treated with a curative left pneumonectomy. Three months after this negative mediastinoscopy the patient developed a metastasis in the mediastinoscopy scar. A report of this case and a review of the literature are presented.
Origin of familial malignant melanomas from heritable melanocytic lesions. 'The B-K mole syndrome'.	Distinctive melanocytic moles are described in 37 patients from six melanoma families. Among the family members examined by the authors, 15 of 17 patients with melanoma and 22 of 41 nonmelanoma relatives had the unique moles. The clinical and histological features of these moles have been designated the "B-K mole syndrome." The clinical features of the syndrome include the presence of less than 10 to greater than 100 moles prominent of the upper trunk and extremities, and variability of mole size (5 mm to 15 mm), outline, and color combination. Histologically, B-K moles show atypical melanocytic hyperplasia, lymphocytic infiltration, delicate fibroplasia, and new blood vessels that occur within a compound nevus or de novo. The transformation of two B-K moles into malignant melanomas was documented photographically.
Regional differences in the incidence and growth of mouse tumors following intradermal or subcutaneous inoculation.	Tumor cells inoculated intradermally or s.c. into more cranial regions of the lateral trunk show strikingly greater tumor growth and development than do similar cells injected more caudally. At low tumor cell doses the incidence anteriorly may be double that found posteriorly and tumors become detectable more rapidly anteriorly; at higher cell doses the anterior:posterior ratio of tumor weight may be 4:1. The effect appears to be independent of the type of tumor used (mastocytoma, sarcoma, teratoma, lymphoma, or adenocarcinoma) and of the strain of mouse host; it does not appear to be influenced by the sex of the host animal, the immunogenicity of the tumor, or the immunological competence of the tumor recipient. The results are discussed both in terms of practical considerations for developing adequate tumor transplantation and treatment protocols and in terms of the biological significance in relation to spontaneous or induced oncogenesis.
Pressure-induced pseudoangioma of obese women]	Due to the pressure by the straps of brassieres, lichen sclerosus-like lesions have been observed on the shoulders of obese women with hyperplastic mammae. Histologically the lesions are characterized by hyperkeratosis, acanthosis and pseudoangionatous proliferation of the capillaries in the dermis. Elastic fibers are sparse, but there is no marked edema and only a moderate perivascular infiltrate of mononuclear cells.
Immunity and skin cancer.	Observations in humans and animal studies support the theory that immunologic surveillance plays an important role in limiting the development of skin malignancies. These immune responses undergo progressive diminution with age. In addition, other factors, such as bereavement, poor nutrition, and acute and chronic exposure to ultraviolet light, can further diminish immune mechanisms. We believe these decreases in immune function in combination with the carcinogenic effect of ultraviolet light are important in the production of skin cancers.
Simulated stratospheric ozone depletion and increased ultraviolet radiation: effects on photocarcinogenesis in hairless mice.	Solar ultraviolet radiation at the surface of the earth is a recognized cause of skin cancer. Postulated anthropogenic reductions in the thickness of the ozone layer would lead to an increased amount of ultraviolet radiation and hence would be expected to increase the risk of skin carcinogenesis. This study uses hairless (Skh:HR) mice as an animal model to study this increased risk. The mice were exposed 5 days/week to graded doses of ultraviolet radiation from a xenon arc lamp attenuated by five different thicknesses of Schott glass filters (WG320) to simulate various ozone layer thicknesses. A Robertson-Berger sunburning ultraviolet meter was used as one of the forms of dosimetry. The results of the various exposure treatments are expressed as the percentage of animal with tumors (incidence) versus time after commencing irradiation and as cumulative tumor yield (average number of tumors per survivor) versus time. With any given filter, the time to 50% incidence is inversely related to daily dose in Robertson-Berger meter units. The time to 50% incidence for comparable Robertson-Berger meter doses through different filter thicknesses increases with increasing thickness. These results indicate that the effective dose for skin cancer induction may be estimated from the Robertson-Berger meter dose but that the Robertson-Berger meter response spectrum underestimates the photocarcinogenic effectiveness of the shorter wavelengths. The cumulative tumor yield data are also consistent with these conclusions. Alternate weighting of the source spectra with the acute-response action spectrum for mouse skin edema gave a better correlation between unit dose and time to a tumor response, independent of the source spectral distribution. This suggests that the mouse skin edema action spectrum, indistinguishable from a human skin erythema action spectrum for lambda greater than 295 nm, is similar in shape to the mouse skin photocarcinogenesis action spectrum for lambda greater than 295 nm.
Dermatologic roentgen therapy and radiocarcinogenesis]	Late somatic effects of ionizing radiation can be divided into non-stochastic effects with relatively high threshold doses (cataract, fertility problems, chronic radiodermatitis, and radiogenic skin cancer) and non-threshold stochastic effects. Theoretical and epidemiologic aspects of radiocarcinogenesis and various clinical types of radiation-induced neoplasms (leukemia, thyroid cancer, breast cancer) and genetic effects are discussed with special reference to radiation protection measures.
Multiple pilomatrixomas as symptoms of Curschmann-Steinert myotonia dystrophica]	A 42-year-old woman had multiple pilomatrixomas of the scalp and trunk. Generalized cutis marmorata and Raynaud's syndrome were also present. The skin consistency was noticeably abnormal, being soft and stretchable. Her facies was typically myopathic, there was muscular paresis and atrophy, her speech was slurred, and her intelligence low. A diagnosis of dystrophia myotonica was made, previously unrecognized in this patient. Dystrophia myotonica is a genetic condition involving several systems, including the skin, mainly in the form of pilomatrixomas and vasomotor changes. Dystrophia myotonica is therefore of interest to the dermatologist for other reasons than the well-known testicular atrophy.
Basal cell carcinoma arising in a smallpox vaccination site.	A case of pigmented basal cell carcinoma developing in a smallpox revaccination site is presented. Any progressive change within a smallpox vaccination scar should be thoroughly evaluated and treated appropriately after tissue diagnosis.
Adverse cutaneous effects of ionizing and non-ionizing electromagnetic radiation.	Modern man is constantly exposed to many forms of electromagnetic radiation, both ionizing and non-ionizing. Although many uses of electromagnetic radiation artfully administered serve man well, injudicious exposure carries a potential for harm. Various types of electromagnetic radiation and possible hazards from them are discussed.
The development of pseudo-Kaposi's sarcoma after placement of a vascular access graft.	Pseudo-Kaposi's sarcoma developed on the skin overlying a vascular graft in a haemodialysis patient. After spontaneous thrombosis within the graft, the cutaneous lesions promptly resolved. Light and electron microscopic study of the lesions failed to distinguish them from those of true Kaposi's sarcoma.
Mutagenicity of melanin from human red hair.	The Salmonella typhimurium histidine reversion test of Ames et al. was used to demonstrate the pheomelanin, the red-brown polymeric pigment produced in human skin and hair, becomes mutagenic after exposure to long wave-length UV-light; a finding consistent with the UV-induced somatic mutation hypothesis for the origin of freckles and the high susceptibility of redheads and blonds to sunlight-induced skin cancers.
Verrucous carcinoma of skin.	Five different cases of verrucous proliferative lesions of skin are described and discussed. One of each developed in a chronic ulcer on a heel, in a scar on a lower leg, and on the penis, and two appeared in the region of the buttock in relation to chronic inflammatory sinuses. All these lesions showed morphological and clinical features of verrucous carcinoma which are described. It has been concluded that the variously named verrucous lesions in the literature (epithelioma cuniculatum, florid papillomatosis, giant cutaneous papilloma and papillomatosis cutis carcinoides), as well as our five cases represent a verrucous carcinoma which is a particular type of squamous cell carcinoma. This tumor develops typically in moist areas which are frequently sites of chronic inflammation. Despite the favorable prognosis, it is a potentially invasive tumor.
Chromosomal radiosensitivity of lymphocytes from skin cancer-prone patients.	Frequencies of spontaneous and radiation-induced chromosome aberrations were documented in lymphocytes from patients with basal cell nevus syndrome (BCNS) and from those with epidermodysplasia verruciformis (EV). Cells were irradiated with single or double doses of gamma-rays or UV light. For the double dose irradiation protocol, the two doses were separated from each other by 60 min. After irradiation of cells with 4 or 2 + 2 J/m2 UV light, lymphocytes from seven BCNS patients had a similar number of aberrant cells compared with normal controls, while cells from three EV patients showed a significantly increased number of cells containing aberrations, particularly chromatid-type aberrations, compared to controls (p < 0.03, Student's t-test). Similar results were observed whether the cells were irradiated with single or double doses of UV light. In addition, lymphocytes from EV patients had significantly lower mitotic indices than controls whether the cultures were irradiated with UV light or unirradiated (p < 0.05; Student's t-test). After irradiation with 100, 100 + 100 or 50 + 50 cGy gamma-rays, the mean chromosome aberration frequencies from nine BCNS patients and two EV patients were not significantly different from the controls. The spontaneous chromosome aberration frequencies were similar for the patients and the controls. Our data indicate that BCNS and EV lymphocytes irradiated with gamma-rays have a normal DNA repair response. However, cells from EV patients have an abnormal repair response to UV light induced DNA damage. This abnormality is probably caused by deficiency in DNA repair and it is consistent with the patients' sensitivity to UV light induced cutaneous squamous cell carcinomas.
Detection of human herpesvirus type 6, human herpesvirus type 7, cytomegalovirus and human papillomavirus in cutaneous AIDS-associated Kaposi's sarcoma]	In order to evaluate a possible role of viral infections in the pathogenesis of AIDS-associated Kaposi's sarcoma (KS), we investigated 26 cutaneous AIDS-associated KS by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), in situ hybridization, and immunohistochemistry. By PCR we detected human papilloma viruses (HPV), cytomegalovirus (CMV), human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6), and for the first time human herpesvirus 7 (HHV-7) in the KS. The prevalence of HPV, HHV-6, and HHV-7 was similar to or lower in KS than in normal skin tissues of AIDS patients without KS, but higher than in normal skin of HIV-seronegative patients. All HHV-6 found in KS were identified as HHV-6 variant B. In addition to the known HPV types 16 and 18 described in KS, we also found HPV types 6 and 33 in KS specimen. By immunohistochemistry HHV-6 could be localized in macrophages in KS, in the adjacent stroma as well as in normal skin of control cases. In situ hybridization for CMV and HPV gave negative results in KS and controls.
Inhibition of skin carcinogenesis in vivo by caffeine and other agents.	The induction of skin cancer in mice of the Swiss (Carshalton) strain, by repeated irradiation with UV-light, was strikingly reduced by the local application of caffeine prior to each exposure. Theophylline displayed the same activity. These two substances have been selected as probable inhibitors of error-prone, postreplicative DNA repair. Conversely, reductone and chloroquine, which are considered as inhibitors of the error-free, prereplicative excision repair, did not modify the incidence of the tumors. Special emphasis has been given to the histologic behavior of radiolabeled caffeine in the normal and UV-irradiated epidermis of the mouse in vivo and to the ability of mouse epidermal cells in vitro to repair DNA after UV irradiation.
Influence of heat, wind, and humidity on ultraviolet radiation injury.	We investigated the influence of heat, wind, and humidity on UVR-induced acute and chronic skin damage of experimental animals housed in environmental chambers and irradiated under controlled conditions. Hairless mice (strain HRS/J) irradiated after an increase of 10 degrees F in skin temperature had more skin damage than irradiated controls. Significantly more Swiss albino mice irradiated for 400 days while maintained at 90 degrees F developed tumors than did those receiving the same amount of UVR but maintained at room temperature. Mice exposed to UVR daily for 4 weeks while kept in wind of 7 mph had greater damage and slower recovery than animals irradiated but protected from wind. Wind also accelerated tumorigenesis in mice than received chronic UVR. Mice kept at 80% relative humidity and given a single dose of UVR had greater skin injury than animals irradiated while at 5% relative humidity. High midity also appears to accelerate skin cancer formation in animals that were exposed to chronic UVR.
Immunologic aspects of tumor induction by ultraviolet radiation.	Chronic treatment of mice with UVR not only induced skin cancer but also produced a systemic change that interfered with host resistance against these tumors. The studies leading to the this conclusion were prompted by the discovery that most tumors induced in C3H mice by chronic UV irradiation were immunologically rejected following transplatation to normal syngeneic recipients. This raised the question of why these tumors were able to grow progressively in the autochthonous host without being destroyed immunologically. We found that after a short course of UV treatment, the UV-irradiated mice lost their ability to reject transplanted UV-irradiated mice lost their ability to reject transplanted UV-induced tumors, even though such transplants were rejected by unirradiated animals. The growth of the transplanted tumors in UV-treated mice resulted from a systemic alteration in the animals that was induced by UV irradiation of the skin.
A systemic effect of ultraviolet irradiation and its relationship to tumor immunity.	Chronic irradiation of mice with UV light produces a systemic alteration that is immunologic in nature and may be due to the presence of specific suppressor lymphoid cells. The immunologic aspect of this systemic alteration was demonstrated by cell transfer experiments. Lymphoid cells from UV-treated donors were unable to confer tumor resistance to lethally X-irradiated and neonatal liver reconstituted recipients, whereas recipients given lymphoid cells from normal donors were resistant to a challenge with a syngeneic UV-induced tumor. Therefore, lymphoid cells from normal donors could mediate tumor rejection, but lymphoid cell from UV-irradiated donors could not. Furthermore, lymphoid cells from UV-treated donors suppressed the ability of lymphoid cells from normal donors to mediate syngeneic tumor rejection when mixed 1:1 before transfer into lethally X-irradiated recipients. This suppression was specific since all recipients recipients resisted an allogeneic UV-induced tumor challenge. Serum transfer experiments failed to demonstrate any inactivating or suppressive substances in the serum of UV-treated animals. The findings suggested that UV-treated mice failed to reject UV-induced tumors because UV irradiation induced specific suppressor lymphoid cells that prevented the development of an immune respons against these tumor antigens.
Action spectrum for ultraviolet carcinogenesis.	Previous observations and experiments have shown that the potent carcinogenic wavelengths for skin cancer in man are found in the 290- to 320-nm range, although shorter and longer wavelengths can also have an effect. The short wavelength limit (290 nm) is determined by thesolar emission reaching the earth's surface, a parameter that varies greatly with season, time, and atmopheric conditions. The long wavelength limit (320 nm) was based on observations of the effect of window glass filtration and on comparison of the effect of mid and long UV radiation. It provide little information as to the efficacy of wavelengths in this range. We performed a series of experiments to provide more specific comparative data by testing the hypothesis that the action spectrum for carcinogenesis parallel that for erythema. Albino mice were exposed the emission of a diffraction grating monochromator (5 nm half power bandwidth) at 290, 300, 310, and 320 nm. Energy levels were proportional to valves for the erythema spectrum of untanned Caucasian human skin. Exposures were given thrice weekly until 50% of the mice had developed tumors. Squamous cell carcinomas developed at approximately the same rate and frequency when the UV exposure was proportional to that for erythema, which indicated a decreasing potency from 300 to 310 to 320 nm. No tumors occurred in mice exposed to 290 nm.
Experimental ultraviolet photocarcinogenesis: wavelength interactions and time-dose relationships.	Tumors were induced in the skin of SKH hairless mice by exposure to fluorescent FS sun lamps or to a long-arc xenon solar simulator. Tumores developed about equally well with varying amounts of UV-A radiation (lambda greater than 320 nm) given simultaneously. In contrast, incremental changes in the UV-B region (lambda less than 320 nm) led to substantial increases in carcinogenic effectiveness. A tumor-"initiating" dose of UV-B (4-10 wk of daily FS lamp exposures) was rendered less effective by subsequent exposures of the mice to UV-A (6 hr/day, F-40 T12BL lamps). The mechanism for this effect is not known. Most tumors induced by a short course (10 wk) of FS lamp exposure grew slowly or regressed, whereas mice exposed for a longer period (30 wk) developed more tumors, and many of those that appeared early grew aggressively. Effects of daily dose fractionation were less clear, and the subject requires further study. These and other variables are being tested in a program designed to yield useful information on the effects of changing spectrum, dose, and dose delivery rates on sunlight-induced cancer.
Photosensitized reactions and carcinogenesis.	We present data from experiments designed to investigate the role of DNA interstrand cross-links induced by exposure to 8-MOP plus UVR and skin carcinogenesis. 8-MOP was administered topically to two strains of hairless mice, SKH:hairless-1 and HRS/J/An1, which were then exposed to UV light sources with emission in the range of 1) 300-400, 2) 320-400, and 3) predominantly 365 nm. We found no strain dependency for DNA cross-link production, but a marked strain-dependent difference in tumor susceptibility was noted. Only a small strain-dependent difference occurred in tumor incidence when TPA was administered after exposure to 8-MOP and 320-400 nm. These results suggest that the events concerned with tumor promotion are dependent on strain. Because the most effective tumorigenic wavelength spectrum was 300-400 nm, we investigated the possibility of interaction between lesions induced by the 300- to 320-nm wavelengths and the psoralen photoadducts. In the course of this experiment, we found that the tumorigenic effect was also dependent on the time interval between exposures to 8-MOP plus 365-nm light.
Interaction of light and chemicals in carcinogenesis.	Interactions between chemicals and UV light, as they may affect the carcinogenic process, are examined in terms of the three-component system: chemical, light, and biologic target. Various two-component interactions, in addition to unique three-component interactions, are considered. Available information is incomplete concerning such possibilities as promotion by noncarcinogenic light, the contribution of acute or chronic phototoxic events to chemical or physical carcinogenesis, and the relationship between either photochemical carcinogenesis or chemically enhanced photocarcinogenesis and demonstrable phototoxic activity. Interactions such as optical absorption by, or photochemical alteration of, chemicals are considered primarily as confounding variables in experimental situations. It is argued that realities of human exposure may reduce the complexity of these problems in practical safety or regulatory considerations.
The biologic effectiveness of ultraviolet light.	The biologic effects of visible and UV light result from photochemical changes in cell components. The amount of photochemical change induced in a small non-self-shadowing structure is proportional to the number of photons traversing it per unit area normal to the direction of propagation, summed over all component beam directions. Within an optically complex, absorbing, and scattering structure, this quantity is difficult to determine, but for skin it is approximately proportional to the total number of photons per unit area entering its outer surface. The magnitude of some photobiologic effects depends on the total amount of photochemical change induced, whereas others depend on the rate of photoproduct formation or on a more complex relation. The nature of the dependence must be determined before light measurements can be related to the magnitude. The effect of a polychromatic illumination depends on its wavelength distribution, weighted by the effectiveness of each wavelength (the action spectrum) under the conditions employed. Until the latter is known, no dosimetric characterization of the light is possible. The wavelength distribution can be determined by spectroradiometric measurement, with the weighting performed numerically, or (more conveniently, though less accurately) by the use of an analog reaction with an action spectrum like that of the photobiologic effect.
Photodamage and skin cancer among paraquat workers.	Some workers in paraquat manufacturing, exposed to bipyridines, have developed pigmentation and keratosis on sun-exposed skin. This condition has been described as skin-malignancy or premalignancy. This study was designed to clarify the pathologic features of these lesions and to explore the etiologic role played by bipyridine.
Primary cutaneous meningioma associated with von Recklinghausen's disease.	Cutaneous meningeal tumors are rare and can pose a diagnostic problem. We present a case of a 12-year-old girl with a family history of von Recklinghausen's disease. The patient was asymptomatic until the age of 11, when she developed two lesions on the head, both diagnosed as plexiform neurofibroma. Subsequently, she presented with a subcutaneous nodule on the left posterior occipital scalp which was excised. On histology, the tumor was composed of spindle-shaped cells with diffuse and nested patterns. A whorled configuration of the cells, with occasional giant cells and psammoma bodies, was present. There was no evidence of connection between the tumor and the underlying tissues. Immunohistochemical studies were positive for epithelial membrane antigen, vimentin, and weakly for neuron-specific enolase. Cytokeratin, S-100 protein, and muscle markers were negative. Based on these features, the diagnosis of cutaneous meningioma was made. An MRI examination failed to detect any communication between the tumor site and the meninges; however, asymptomatic bilateral acoustic neuromas were identified. This case, besides being of interest as a primary cutaneous meningioma, also documents a unique combination of findings, i.e., plexiform neurofibroma, meningioma, and cerebellopontine acoustic neuromas, which should alert the clinician to a forme fruste presentation of von Recklinghausen's disease.
Tobacco and the skin]	Various skin changes are undoubtedly caused or at least promoted by smoking. The present literature seems to concentrate mainly on active cigarette smokers, rather than on other kinds of nicotine consumption or on the effects of passive smoking. Unquestionable sequelae of cigarette smoking are the occurrence of yellow fingers, enhanced wrinkling especially in the faces of females, precancerous lesions and squamous cell carcinomas on lips and oral mucosa, vasospasms and obliterations of large arteries as well as of small skin vessels. The toxicomania is often associated with other addictions as e.g. alcoholism. The main emphasis in medical care of our population should lie in facilitating smoking cessation as well as in an effective prevention.
Proteus syndrome. 8 cases]	Proteus syndrome most often includes: corporal hemi-hypertrophia, gigantism of the extremities with hyperplasia of the palms and soles, vascular abnormalities and varied types of other hamartomatous tumours. The dysmorphic growth generates functional orthopaedic and orthognatic disabilities that increase with age.
Kaposi's sarcoma following allogeneic bone marrow transplantation.	Localised Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) was diagnosed 240 days after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT) in a severely immunosuppressed HIV negative patient with genetic predisposition. The tumour was of host origin, based on PCR amplification of DNA minisatellites. Treatment with radiotherapy prompted almost complete regression of the lesions. However the patient subsequently died with relapsed acute myelogenous leukaemia. Contrary to the incidence observed after organ allografts, the advent of KS appears to be exceptional after BMT, since only one case has been reported to date, following reinfusion of autologous marrow.
Radiation-induced malignant melanoma: the dog that did not bark.	A history of exposure to ultraviolet rays, such as those in sunlight, has been strongly associated with malignant melanoma. Gamma rays consist of much more energetic photons, but yet they have much more tenuous links to melanoma. A literature review suggests that relatively little evidence has been adduced for gamma radiation as a cause of malignant melanoma. An exploration of the reasons behind the paradoxical lack of melanoma induction by gamma radiation may yield clues to the etiology of melanoma.
Differences in narrow-band ultraviolet B and broad-spectrum ultraviolet photocarcinogenesis in lightly pigmented hairless mice.	The carcinogenic effect of 4 ultraviolet (UV) sources was studied in lightly pigmented hairless mice. Two narrow-band UV sources, Philips TL01 and Philips TL12 with a Tempax filter, and two broad-spectrum UV sources, Philips TL12 and Bellarium S, were used. Exposure doses were calculated from the CIE erythema action spectrum. Four groups of mice (n = 20) were exposed to a nonerythemogenic dose (low dose), and 4 groups were exposed to an erythemogenic dose (high dose) of each of the 4 UV sources. One group (control) was not irradiated. The mice in the 4 low-dose groups were all exposed to 0.6 basic minimal erythema doses (B-MED) 5 days/week, and all the mice in the high-dose groups to 1.2 B-MED 5 days/week. After 16 weeks of acclimatization, the doses were doubled. Bellarium S and Philips TL12 were equally carcinogenic in the low-dose regimen and the high-dose regimen. Mice exposed to Philips TL12 with a Tempax filter developed tumors significantly earlier compared with Bellarium and Philips TL12. Philips TL01 was more carcinogenic than any of the other UV sources. Equally erythemogenic doses calculated from the CIE erythema action spectrum seem to be more carcinogenic when derived from narrow-band UVB sources than from broad-band UV sources.
Cutaneous melanoma in women: ovulatory life, menopause, and use of exogenous estrogens.	Factors related to menopause and use of exogenous hormones other than p.o. contraceptives were examined in 452 women ages 25-59 who were diagnosed with cutaneous malignant melanoma. Control subjects for this population-based study in the San Francisco Bay Area were 930 women of the same age. An increased risk was observed for superficial spreading melanoma (SSM) in women who reached natural menopause after age 55 [odds ratio (OR), 3.6; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.1-11.1], and for women who had had a bilateral oophorectomy within 9 years of their diagnosis with SSM (OR, 2.2; CI, 1.1-4.5). A somewhat elevated risk of melanoma after natural menopause or hysterectomy was no longer statistically significant after adjustment for exogenous hormone use. Prolonged use of p.o. exogenous hormones after hysterectomy for women who had retained at least one ovary was associated with an increased risk of SSM (OR, 5.4; CI, 1.5-19.3), and use of these products for fewer than 5 years after bilateral oophorectomy also was associated with an elevated risk of SSM (OR, 2.9; CI, 1.0-7.8). Conjugated estrogen use was associated with somewhat elevated risks for SSM after hysterectomy with one ovary retained (OR, 2.7; CI, 0.97-7.3) and after hysterectomy with bilateral oophorectomy (OR, 2.1; CI, 0.86-5.0). There was a suggestion of a trend for increased risk of SSM with increased dosage of conjugated estrogens after hysterectomy (P for trend = 0.07). Use of vaginal creams that contained estrogen also was associated with an increased risk of SSM (OR, 1.8; CI, 1.0-3.3).
Suppression of squamous cell carcinoma in hairless mice by dietary nutrient variation.	In experiments involving the induction of squamous cell carcinoma in 1846 hairless mice that were maintained on a wide variety of diets, it was found that those diets with the least optimum balance of nutrients had the greatest inhibitory effect on growth of cancer. Rate of onset and severity of tumors was caused to vary over a 20-fold range by means of dietary balance alone. These experiments suggest that dietary variation in general and intentional malnutrition in particular should be given special attention in the control of existing cancer in humans.
Agminate Spitz naevi arising on hyperpigmented patches.	In 1948 Dr Sophie Spitz described criteria that distinguished juvenile melanoma from malignant melanoma. Since then the cases of eruptive Spitz naevi have been reported arising on normal skin, on lightly pigmented patches and on hypopigmented patches. There are only 12 reports of Spitz naevi arising on hyperpigmented patches: we describe here three further cases, all on the arms of children, seen in our department in a single year.
The use of cell proliferation data in modeling of skin carcinogenesis.	A simple model for papilloma formation is used to analyze data from a mouse skin-painting experiment performed with NMRI mice. The results suggest that one of two conclusions may be drawn: Either the model fails to properly describe the growth behavior of papilloma cells or the model suggests that papilloma cells do not have growth advantage over normal cells, even during promotion.
Proliferative responses of the skin to external stimuli.	The skin, in particular the epidermis, offers unique opportunities to investigate the induction and control of cellular proliferation and tissue homeostasis both under in vivo and in vitro conditions. Moreover, it represents one of the most feasible model systems for experimental cancer research. As the primary border of the body, the skin has important protective and defensive functions. A general response to external injury consists of a thickening of the epithelial layer (epidermal hyperplasia) combined with an inflammatory reaction. This hyperplastic transformation of the skin is a critical condition of skin tumor development (i.e., conversion and promotion) and of the wound response. It is believed to be due to a transformation of keratinocytes into an activated state characterized by an increased rate of proliferation and the ability to release a series of growth factors and other cytokines that coordinate the defense reaction (e.g., hyperproliferation, recruitment of leukocytes, activation of the immune system) along auto- and paracrine feedback loops. The initial and probably later phases of this response depend critically on a local release of eicosanoids such as prostaglandins and lipoxygenase-generated factors. A unique reaction seen upon phorbol ester treatment of mouse skin is a strong induction of the enzyme 8-lipoxygenase, which might be involved in skin tumor development by catalyzing the generation of clastogenic metabolites thought to play a role in the conversion stage. Hyperplasia may be considered to be the result of an imbalance between the rates of cell gain and cell loss.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Radiation therapy of Kaposi's sarcoma with accelerated electrons]	Kaposi's sarcoma and AIDS-associated Kaposi's sarcoma resistant to chemotherapy were irradiated locally in 14 and 1 patient, respectively, and followed up for 1--6 years. The energy (10 MeV) in the total focal dose of 24--40 Gy was emitted as high-speed electrons from a medical accelerator. An immediate response was obtained in all the patients. The recurrence occurred in AIDS-associated sarcoma only. It is recommended that Kaposi's sarcoma should be treated by high-speed electron radiation covering the lesion and adjacent sites of the intact skin. Total focal dose must not exceed 30 Gy, in case of circulatory disturbances in the low limbs the dose is to be reduced to 20 Gy.
Excess leukemia and multiple myeloma in a mining county in northeast Texas.	From 1950 to 1979, cancer mortality rates in Titus County, Texas, increased with a significant excess of deaths from leukemia, lymphoma, brain and liver cancers, and melanoma. County residents requested this study to verify the apparent excess of cancer. Newly diagnosed cases of cancer among white residents from 1977 to 1984 were ascertained from the Texas Cancer Registry, hospital records, and death certificates. Direct and indirect methods were used to calculate incidence rates and standardized incidence ratios (SIR). We identified 663 cancers for 148,470 person-years of observation. No overall excess of cancer was found. However, we found a significant excess of leukemia (SIR = 2.53, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.86, 3.30) and multiple myeloma (SIR = 1.87, 95% CI = 1.02, 3.14). The reasons for the increased SIRs are unknown. However, the excess of cancers in this mining community may be relevant to the ongoing debate on the health effects of the disposal of combustion wastes from mining and fossil fuel and on the need for stricter regulations. Other potential risk factors include the presence of petrochemical and poultry industries. regulations. Other potential risk factors include the presence of petrochemical and poultry industries.
Effects of appearance-based admonitions against sun exposure on tanning intentions in young adults.	This experiment compared the effectiveness of health-based versus appearance-based messages on university students' intentions to protect their skin against the sun's damaging rays. One hundred thirty-four Ss completed a measure of appearance motivation, then responded to 1 of 3 essays about tanning and skin cancer. One essay described the health risks of excessive sun exposure, one essay discussed the deleterious effects of tanning on physical appearance, and a control essay described the process by which tanning occurs. Overall, the essay that dealt with the negative effects of the sun on appearance was most effective in promoting intentions to practice safe-sun behaviors. However, the appearance-based essay was effective primarily among Ss who were low rather than high in appearance motivation.
Chronic cutaneous damage after accidental exposure to ionizing radiation: the Chernobyl experience.	The hazards of acute radiation exposure are well known. Bone marrow failure from total body gamma or neutron irradiation is the most clinically relevant aspect of acute radiation disease. With nonhomogeneous exposure, as is characteristic in accidents, other organ systems, such as the skin, may be more important in determining clinical prognosis. This became obvious in the two worst radiation accidents since 1945, the Chernobyl accident in April 1986 and the Goiania accident in September 1987.
Associated factors in the prevalence of more than 50 common melanocytic nevi, atypical melanocytic nevi, and actinic lentigines: multicenter case-control study of the Central Malignant Melanoma Registry of the German Dermatological Society.	Several case-control studies identified common and atypical melanocytic nevi as major risk indicators for the development of cutaneous melanoma. The present investigation was planned to detect factors associated with the prevalence of these melanoma risk markers. Whole-body examination findings and interview data of 513 melanoma patients and 498 age- and sex-matched control subjects were analyzed. Existence of more than 50 common melanocytic nevi and the presence of atypical melanocytic nevi were significantly related to age and gender, with significantly elevated relative risk for their prevalence before the age of 60 and in males. Additionally, sunburns before the age of 20 were significantly associated with both more than 50 common melanocytic nevi (relative risk = 1.7) and the presence of atypical melanocytic nevi (relative risk = 1.5). Actinic lentigines were found more frequently with increasing age, and the presence of actinic lentigines was significantly related to a tendency of freckling in adolescence (relative risk = 2.0) and to two or more sunburns after the age of 20 (relative risk = 1.6). In conclusion, sunburns before the age of 20 contribute to the development of multiple melanocytic nevi and atypical melanocytic nevi. In adulthood, this type of sun exposure is associated with the development of actinic lentigines. The relative risk of developing cutaneous melanoma increases in association with the development of these benign melanocytic lesions.
Effects of dietary selenium on UVB-induced skin carcinogenesis and epidermal antioxidant status.	Low plasma selenium levels have been linked to increased risk of non-melanoma skin cancer in humans. The present study examined the relationship between selenium level in the diet and development of skin tumors induced by ultraviolet radiation in female Skh:HR-1 hairless mice. Animals were maintained on a torula yeast-based diet containing either 0, 0.1, or 0.5 mg/kg selenium as Na2SeO3. Ultraviolet light at a dose of 90 mJ/cm2, three times weekly for 20 weeks, resulted in skin tumors in all groups. Following cessation of ultraviolet light exposure, tumors continued to increase in selenium-deficient mice and those fed only 0.1 mg/kg, but leveled off for those on 0.5 mg/kg. During the carcinogenesis process, epidermal antioxidant enzymes catalase, superoxide dismutase, and glutathione peroxidase were monitored. Selenium deficiency decreased glutathione peroxidase and resulted in an early increase in superoxide dismutase and catalase in response to ultraviolet light treatment. These results indicate that dietary Se may be an important chemopreventive agent for skin cancer.
Near-visible-UV radiation delays UVB tumorigenesis.	The effect of UVA radiation (321-400 nm) on UVB photocarcinogenesis was examined in lightly pigmented hairless hr/hr C3H/Tif mice. Five groups of 22 mice were exposed to UVB radiation (281-320 nm) from one Philips 12 tube for 10 min per day and 4 days per week. Four of the groups were simultaneously exposed to UVA from two to six filtered Philips 09 tubes. The daily dose of UVB was 2.0 kJ m-2 in all five groups; the UVA2 (321-340 nm) dose varied from 0.7 to 4.5 kJ m-2 and the UVA1 (341-400 nm) dose from 0.3 to 45.6 kJ m-2. A sixth group was exclusively irradiated with the filtered UVA tubes and served as a control. Skin tumor development was not significantly different for the groups exposed to the UVB source alone or the UVB source in combination with the largest daily UVA dose (0.2 > p > 0.1). Skin tumor development was significantly delayed in the other groups irradiated with the UVB source and the lower doses of UVA (p < 0.001). No tumors were observed in the control group. This study suggests that UVA1 radiation delays UVB-induced skin tumor development. However, the delay cannot be expected to persist when UVA is administered in higher daily doses.
De novo malignancy in pediatric organ transplant recipients.	Study of 7,393 types of cancer that occurred in 6,934 organ transplant recipients showed that the pattern of malignancies that developed in pediatric recipients was very different from that of the general pediatric population and that of adult recipients. Tumors (334) occurred in 326 pediatric patients (aged < or = 18 years), and 7,059 neoplasms occurred in 6,608 adults. Lymphomas were the predominant cancer in pediatric recipients and comprised 50% of all tumors compared with 15% in adult recipients. Among lymphomas in pediatric patients, 85% occurred during childhood. Of the patients who had lymphoma, there was a preponderance of recipients of nonrenal organs (61%); of those who had nonlymphomatous tumors, only 13% received nonrenal organs. The second most common malignancy in pediatric patients was skin cancer (20% of tumors), but this occurred less frequently than in adult recipients, for whom it comprised 38% of neoplasms. In only 11 pediatric patients (16%) did skin cancers develop during childhood (5 had malignant melanomas), with an average time of appearance after transplantation of 118 months (range, 9.5 to 282 months). Malignant melanomas were more common in pediatric than adult recipients (15% v 5% of skin cancers), as were lip cancers (29% v 13%). Spread to lymph nodes was also more common in pediatric than in adult recipients (13% v 6%). The third most common tumor (4%) in patients who had transplantation during childhood was carcinoma of the vulva, perineum, and/or anus. These patients were female, and the tumors occurred after childhood, at an average of 140 months (range, 43-262 months) posttransplantation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Interleukin-8 immunoreactivity in epidermis of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma patients.	The histopathologic hallmark of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma is collections of malignant T cells in the epidermis. The mechanism(s) involved in the T-cell localization is unknown, however recent evidence suggests that cytokines play a role. Since Interleukin-8 functions both as a leukocyte and lymphocyte chemoattractant, we measured IL-8 expression in skin of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma patients. Lesional skin was obtained by biopsy from cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) patients and patients suffering from other dermatoses and subjected to in situ hybridization with a 35S-Riboprobe and immunofluorescence to detect IL-8. Fourteen out of 15 lesional biopsies from histologically proven CTCL patients displayed intense epidermal IL-8 immunoreactivity compared to negligible reactivity in sections from 14 normal patients and other inflammatory dermatoses. These results were corroborated by strong hybridization signals using IL-8 probes in only the lesional CTCL skin. Lesional CTCL epidermis contains elevated levels of IL-8 mRNA and protein suggesting a role for this cytokine in the pathogenesis of the disease.
Skin cancer and transgenic mice.	At the outer surface of the body, the epidermis of skin forms a protective barrier to keep microorganisms out and essential body fluids in. This barrier is composed of one main cell type, the keratinocyte, which undergoes a precisely defined program of differentiation to produce a durable and renewable integument. The delicate balance between differentiation and proliferation is maintained by regulatory molecules and growth factors. In basal and squamous cell carcinomas of the skin, the balance between growth and differentiation goes awry, although the detailed pathways underlying these cancers remain to be elucidated. Transgenic mice provide the opportunity to precisely perturb growth factors in the skin in the context of a whole organism, leading to valuable insight into both appropriate and deranged growth. This article will review the biology and biochemistry of epidermal growth and differentiation, with emphasis on basal and squamous cell carcinomas and hyperproliferative diseases of the skin, and how recent transgenic research has been utilized to take a penetrating look into these issues.
Sunlight, keratotic skin lesions and skin cancer in renal transplant recipients.	In a retrospective follow-up study, 36 renal transplant recipients with, and 101 without, skin cancer, who had received their first transplant before January 1981 and who were still alive with a functioning graft on 1 August 1989, were assessed to determine the risk of non-melanoma skin cancer in relation to exposure to sunlight during childhood and adolescence. The contribution of the number of keratotic skin lesions to the skin cancer risk was also assessed. The estimated relative risks (odds ratios) of skin cancer in relation to exposure to sunlight and the presence of keratotic skin lesions were calculated by maximum likelihood estimation in a logistic model. The majority of skin cancers and keratotic skin lesions were confined to sun-exposed skin. After adjustment for possible confounding variables, the odds ratios of skin cancer for moderate and high cumulative life-time exposure to sunlight, respectively, compared with low exposure, were 2.4 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.64-9.3) and 47.6 (95% CI 5.4-418). Exposure to sunlight before the age of 30 contributed more to the risk of developing skin cancer later in life than exposure after the age of 30. No association was found between cumulative life-time exposure to sunlight and the number of keratotic skin lesions. Nevertheless, these lesions behaved as a strong independent risk factor in the development of skin cancer. The adjusted odds ratio of skin cancer for 50-99 lesions compared with < 50 lesions was 4.5 (95% CI 1.1-18.2); the adjusted odds ratio for > or = 100 lesions compared with < 50 lesions was 20.8 (95% CI 5.3-81.7).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Systemic immunosuppression and oral malignancy: a report of a case and review of the literature.	A case is described of squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the lower lip in a patient receiving systemic immunosuppression. Contemporary theories on the aetiology of malignancy in such systemically immuno-compromised patients are discussed.
Primary prevention of malignant melanoma in the Stockholm Cancer Prevention Programme.	Malignant melanoma is the most rapidly increasing tumour in Sweden. Sunburns in childhood and adolescence are considered a major risk factor. The Stockholm Cancer Prevention Programme addresses strategies to establish sun awareness in the population of Stockholm county by using existing networks of standardized child health and preschool services, educational systems including schools, colleges of nursing sciences and preschool teaching (integration of sun awareness in curricula, and in a new syllabus for environmental theory), the Federation of Swedish Pharmacies, and media. Health education is designed for key persons in these organizations and the media, who in turn diffuse sun awareness via their respective organizations. The education programme only deals with primary prevention by behavioural changes in exposure to UV rays, ie excessive exposure to sun, and it is primarily intended to raise sun awareness. Experiences have shown that information diffusion was good in spite of limited staff resources.
Changes in sun-related attitudes and behaviours, and reduced sunburn prevalence in a population at high risk of melanoma.	This study aimed to determine trends in exposure to sunlight in the context of a melanoma prevention programme by monitoring the prevalence of sunburn and sun-related attitudes and behaviours. Telephone interviews were conducted in a baseline summer (December 1987 to February 1988) and two subsequent summers after the introduction of the SunSmart health promotion campaign. Interviewing a sample of 4,428 adult residents of the Australian city of Melbourne took place throughout summer on Monday evenings. Behavioural and sunburn data were reported for the previous weekend and relevant attitudinal data were collected. After adjusting for ambient ultraviolet radiation levels and temperature, survey month, age, sex and skin type, a significant reduction in sunburn was found. The crude proportion of sunburnt dropped from 11% to 10% to 7% over 3 years and the adjusted odds ratios (and 95% confidence intervals) were as follows: Year 1/Year 2; 0.75 (CI 0.57-0.99) and Year 1/Year 3; 0.59 (CI 0.43-0.81). Substantial attitudinal shifts occurred over the 3 years. Hat wearing increased significantly each year (19%, 26%, 29%), as did sunscreen use (12%, 18%, 21%). However, the trends in mean proportion of body surface area covered by clothing were less clear cut (0.67, 0.64, 0.71). It is concluded that melanoma risk factor exposure of populations can change fairly rapidly and that well-conducted health promotion campaigns can play a part in producing such change.
p53 immunoreactivity in cutaneous PUVA tumors is similar to that in other non-melanoma skin neoplasms.	Expression of the p53 tumor suppressor gene product was determined in keratoses and skin cancers associated with psoralen photochemotherapy (PUVA). An immunocytochemical study was employed using CM-1 (polyclonal) and Do-1 (monoclonal) antibodies to human wild-type p53. Thirty-two cutaneous lesions and 20 perilesional PUVA-irradiated skin biopsies were examined from 7 patients, all of whom had received more than 200 PUVA treatments and/or a cumulative UVA dose of greater than 1000J/cm2 as treatment for widespread plaque psoriasis. p53 immunoreactivity was seen in 7 of 15 squamous cell carcinomas (46.7%), 5 of 8 dysplastic keratoses (62.5%) and in no basal cell carcinomas or benign keratoses. The overall prevalence of p53 immunoreactivity in 46.2% of malignant or dysplastic PUVA-associated skin tumors is similar to that previously found by our group in comparable skin tumors from the general population. Most patients with lesions showing positive p53 immunoreactivity had, however, been exposed to additional risk factors before receiving PUVA therapy. p53 gene sequencing of PUVA-associated non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) may clarify whether p53 mutation contributes to the development of these tumors and whether this relates to PUVA therapy or prior carcinogen exposure.
Differential modulation of contact hypersensitivity and delayed hypersensitivity reactions by topical application of 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate.	Ear/footpad swelling following sensitization and challenge with 2,4-dinitrofluorobenzene (DNFB)/allogenic splenocytes (AS) were used to monitor the effects of 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) on contact hypersensitivity (CHS) and delayed hypersensitivity (DHS) reactions, respectively. Topical treatment of dorsal or ventral SENCAR mouse skin 4x with 2 micrograms of TPA prior to sensitization of dorsal skin with DNFB suppressed attempts to induce CHS by subsequent challenge with DNFB. The adoptive transfer of splenocytes isolated from mice pretreated on the dorsum with TPA prior to dorsal sensitization with DNFB inhibited the development of CHS to DNFB in recipient mice. Conversely, topical treatment with TPA prior to s.c. sensitization with AS neither suppressed subsequent attempts to induce DHS, nor resulted in the generation of a splenocyte population capable of suppressing DHS reactions in adoptive transfer studies. Thus, promoting doses of topically applied TPA has differential effects on CHS and DHS reactions.
Skin irritant and tumour promoting extract from the latex of Euphorbia bougheii.	A crude ethylacetate extract was isolated from Euphorbia bougheii by a combination of solvent-solvent and chromatographic methods. The extract exhibited significant skin irritant activity on the mouse ear as well as a tumour promoting activity on the mouse back skin. This indicates that the use of this plant as a medicine must be discouraged since the latex extract causes cancer.
Classic and iatrogenic Kaposi's sarcoma. Histopathological patterns as related to clinical course.	The histological findings in the first diagnostic biopsy of 50 patients with Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) were classified and were related to the clinical course. Forty-one patients had the "classic KS," of whom 31 had a benign course and 10 an aggressive disease. Nine patients had iatrogenically induced KS. Histologically the following subtypes were found: mixed type in 18 patients, spindle type in 16, early type in 14, and hemangiomatous and lymphangiomatous types in one each. We did not find any statistical relationship between the histological subtypes, degree of nuclear atypia, number of mitoses, and density of the inflammatory cell infiltrates in the KS lesions, and the clinical types and course of the disease. The results of this study do not support the possibility of a prognostic importance regarding the histological features of the early lesions in patients with classic or iatrogenic Kaposi's sarcoma.
Design and recruitment for retinoid skin cancer prevention (SKICAP) trials. The Southwest Skin Cancer Prevention Study Group.	The retinoid skin cancer prevention (SKICAP) trials are a set of double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trials. The SKICAP-actinic keratoses (AK) trial tests the hypothesis that daily supplementation of retinol (25,000 IU) for 5 years reduces the incidence of skin cancers in high-risk individuals, those with a history of greater than ten clinically or pathologically diagnosed AK and, at most, one prior pathologically confirmed cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) or basal cell carcinoma (BCC). The SKICAP-SCC/BCC (S/B) trial tests the hypothesis that daily supplementation of retinol (25,000 IU) or 13-cis-retinoic acid (5 or 10 mg) for 3 years reduces skin cancer incidence in very high-risk individuals, those with a history of at least four pathologically confirmed SCCs or BCCs. Between 1984 and 1988, 2800 participants were enrolled at two clinics on the SKICAP-AK trial; and between 1985 and 1990, a total of 719 participants were enrolled at four clinics on the SKICAP-S/B trial. The initial recruitment strategy was referral by dermatologists, but low accrual necessitated the use of other strategies to achieve enrollment goals, which included involving additional clinics and using paid trial-specific advertisements in print and electronic media. Thirteen % of the SKICAP-AK participants and 36% of the SKICAP-S/B participants were enrolled through dermatologist referral, whereas paid advertisements resulted in enrollment of 87% of SKICAP-AK and 43% of SKICAP-S/B participants. A population-based skin cancer registry was used to identify and enroll the remaining 21% of the SKICAP-S/B participants.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
About 500 carcinomas of the skin of the face (author's transl)]	After having studied etiological and histological cases of 500 malignant growth of the face's skin the authors think that: -- carcinomas of lips and ears are chiefly men's cancers and above all squamous cell-tumors. Ear-tumors beeing serious. For the other parts of the face, cancers are more frequently met in females than in males. Squamous cell-tumors are perhaps more frequent than usually said; -- as for treatment the authors had rather use surgery with immediate plastic reconstruction.
The biologic actions of solar radiation on skin with a note on sunscreens.	Adverse effects of excessive cutaneous exposure to solar radiation are hazards of considerable importance. As public health measures, new attitudes about sunbathing and new practices to counteract those adverse effects, especially for high-risk individuals, appear warranted.
Primary orbital melanomas.	Primary orbital melanomas are rare tumors with a poorly defined biologic course. Most recorded experiences concern single case reports. The authors evaluated the applicability of several of the histopathologic prognostic indicators used for uveal melanomas to a series of primary orbital melanomas with known clinical follow-up.
Position taken by the profession of dermatology on the use of the solarium]	This article is to summarize the potential adverse effects of exposure to ultraviolet radiation from sunbeds and to provide recommendations from the British Photodermatology Group that, if followed, will minimize the risks of such effects. The recommendations in this document apply only to the use of sunbeds for cosmetic purposes.
Tumour related cutaneous elastophagocytosis.	Dermal granulomatous inflammation was identified immediately adjacent to seven (77%) of nine atypical fibroxanthomas arising in sun damaged skin. Concomitant elastophagocytosis was observed in five (56%) of these seven patients. Similar inflammation with elastophagocytosis was found in association with only two (6%) of 36 epithelial tumours arising on the same background (10 basal and 10 squamous cell carcinomas, 10 nodular malignant melanomas, and six keratocanthomas). Granulomatous inflammation is an unusual dermal reaction to tumour and elastophagocytosis is rare. The fact that both of these features occur with inordinate frequency in association with atypical fibroxanthomas, when compared with other, more common skin tumours, suggests that atypical fibroxanthomas might modulate the inflammatory response, either passively, by its dermal location, or actively, by secreting locally effective cytokines.
Multiple primary malignancies in a renal transplant patient.	Organ transplantation and the use of immunosuppressive therapy has been associated with an increased incidence of malignancy. We report the case of a long-term renal transplant recipient who developed concomitant skin cancers, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, and malignant fibrous histiocytoma. The development of three seemingly unrelated cancers in the same patient illustrates the favorable host environment in transplant patients for the development of malignancies.
Studies into the transplantation biology of ultraviolet light-induced tumors.	The majority of skin tumors induced in mice by ultraviolet (UV) light are rejected when implanted into normal syngeneic recipients. Subcarcinogenic levels of UV light exposure render the normally resistant mice susceptible to tumor challenge. The immunoregulatory effect of UV light appears to be additive, since the growth rate of a tumor transplant is dependent upon the length of UV exposure administered prior to implantation. This suppressive influence does not appear to be directly mediated by the UV light, because the amputation of UV-irradiated tail skin allows for a retention of tumor resistance in otherwise tumor-susceptible hosts. UV-irradiated mice could also be immunized against UV tumors, which suggests that immune recognition of tumor-specific transplantation antigens has not been inhibited. The ability of UV exposure to alter normal immunological reactivity to UV-induced tumors is possibly an integral factor in the mechanism underlying UV carcinogenesis.
A case of stasis papillomatosis associated with psoriasis vulgaris.	A markedly obese, 41-year-old Japanese man who had suffered from psoriasis vulgaris for several years visited us with elephantiasis-like swelling of his lower legs of three months' duration. His right lower leg showed marked papillomatosis with thick scales, and the left lower leg was eroded and papillomatous. Although direct lymphography of his lower extremities showed no abnormality, indirect lymphography revealed local lymphatic damage in the involved skin. Histological examination showed hyperkeratosis, marked papillomatosis, proliferation of capillaries in the upper dermis, and lymphectasia in the lower dermis. The lesions were much improved by washing and topical use of corticosteroids for two months. It was suspected that obesity and the preceding psoriatic lesions caused local lymphatic disturbances, followed by the development of stasis papillomatosis.
Risk factors associated with etiopathogenesis of non-melanoma skin cancer in Valencia]	A series of personal, occupational and sociocultural characteristics have been described in patients with non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC). A case-control retrospective study was undertaken to determine these characteristics in patients with NMSC treated in the La Fe University Hospital (Valencia, Spain) between October 1992 and June 1993. NMSC is seen in elderly individuals, the risk being greater among males than in females. A light complexion clearly increased risk, as did a tendency to sunburn easily. Open-air occupational activities were in turn related to an increased risk of developing NMSC. A significant rise in risk was also observed as age-adjusted occupational exposure to sunlight increased.
Sun exposure and skin disease.	Sunlight exposure produces a variety of adverse cutaneous effects. Erythema, photosensitivity, and immunologic alterations represent acute events, whereas photoaging and carcinogenesis are long-term consequences. These adverse cutaneous sequelae can be minimized by photoprotection in the form of sun avoidance, regular cover-up with clothing, and sunscreen application. This chapter reviews the diagnosis and treatment of sun-related skin disorders and recommendations for reducing photodamage.
Eye color in skin cancer.	In Spain, 2175 patients with skin disease were studied for eye color; 425 had skin cancer and 1750 had other skin conditions. Of the skin cancer patients, 359 had light-colored eyes (blue, green, gray or light brown). Of the others, 60% had dark-colored eyes (black or dark brown).
Faun tail and sacral hemangioma associated with occult spinal dysraphism]	Hemangiomas are the most frequent skin tumor of childhood. Usually, a "wait and see" policy is adopted. However, a sacral hemangioma may reveal occult neurodysraphism.
A review of sunscreen safety and efficacy.	The use of sunscreen products has been advocated by many health care practitioners as a means to reduce skin damage produced by ultraviolet radiation (UVR) from sunlight. There is a need to better understand the efficacy and safety of sunscreen products given this ongoing campaign encouraging their use. The approach used to establish sunscreen efficacy, sun protection factor (SPF), is a useful assessment of primarily UVB (290-320 nm) filters. The SPF test, however, does not adequately assess the complete photoprotective profile of sunscreens specifically against long wavelength UVAI (340-400 nm). Moreover, to date, there is no singular, agreed upon method for evaluating UVA efficacy despite the immediate and seemingly urgent consumer need to develop sunscreen products that provide broad-spectrum UVB and UVA photoprotection. With regard to the safety of UVB and UVA filters, the current list of commonly used organic and inorganic sunscreens has favorable toxicological profiles based on acute, subchronic and chronic animal or human studies. Further, in most studies, sunscreens have been shown to prevent the damaging effects of UVR exposure. Thus, based on this review of currently available data, it is concluded that sunscreen ingredients or products do not pose a human health concern. Further, the regular use of appropriate broad-spectrum sunscreen products could have a significant and favorable impact on public health as part of an overall strategy to reduce UVR exposure.
The factors of individual sensitivity to ultraviolet radiation]	Correlations between effective UVR doses for induction of skin erythema, premature aging and cancer, immunosuppression, vitamin D photobiosynthesis and cataract on the one hand and various ethnic signs, sex, age and metabolic states of organism on the other were considered. Individual UV sensitivity by all criteria mentioned with the exception of immunosuppression and cataract is conditioned by specificity of melanin and DNA metabolism, and risk of skin cancer incidence besides that depends of immune system state. Values of risk factors for UVR effects mentioned incidence in individuals of different sex and age with various ethnic and metabolic conditions are presented.
Laser therapy in dermatology]	The use of lasers for cutaneous lesions has expanded rapidly since its inception in the early 1960s. The principle of selective photothermolysis dramatically improved the efficacy and safety of dermatologic laser systems. Selective photothermolysis is accomplished by choosing an appropriate wavelength and pulse duration. According to the target chromophores (hemoglobin, melanin and H2O), lasers may be grossly divided into 3 groups; systems to treat vascular lesions, pigmented lesions and the surgical lasers for skin ablation. Although vascular lesions can be treated with many lasers, the flash lamp pumped dye laser remains the laser of choice for port wine stains. Cw-lasers can treat telangiectases without purpura and are safer when used in conjunction with scanning devices. Q-switched lasers have enhanced our ability to treat pigmented lesions, especially tattoos. The carbon dioxide laser remains the "workhorse" in dermatology. Safety and versatility are maximized when coupled with a scanning device or utilized in a high-powered, rapidly pulsed mode. Despite the expanding list of laser-responsive lesions, other therapeutic modalities, sometimes at least equally effective and cheaper, must be carefully considered. This requires skill in dermatology and basic laser principles. Lasers add a substantial dimension in treating various skin disorders but are increasingly fraught with overuse.
The relationship of pregnancy, hormones, and melanoma.	There has been considerable interest in the relationship of pregnancy and melanoma. Since 1951, a number of case reports have suggested that pregnancy may induce or exacerbate melanoma. Likewise, there has been concern over the relationship between exposure to oral contraceptives (OCs) or hormone replacement therapy (HRT) and possible increased risk of melanoma. We critically reviewed: (1) controlled clinical trials to assess the effect of pregnancy on the prognosis of melanoma; and (2) epidemiological data to evaluate the risk of melanoma after exposure to OCs or HRT. Pregnancy before, during, or after the diagnosis of melanoma does not appear to influence 5-year survival rates. Exposure to OCs or HRT does not appear to increase the risk of melanoma.
A cover-up operation to target sunseekers.	Although the link between sun and skin cancer is well known, many people still ignore this fact in the pursuit of a 'healthy' tan. Jackie Cresswell highlights the dangers and looks at the risks.
Lack of a co-promoting effect of a 60 Hz magnetic field on skin tumorigenesis in SENCAR mice.	It has been proposed that extremely low frequency (ELF) magnetic fields may enhance tumorigenesis through a co-promotional mechanism. This hypothesis has been further tested using the two-stage model of mouse skin carcinogenesis, i.e. 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-induced promotion of skin tumors in mice initiated by a single subcarcinogenic dose of 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene. Experimentation described herein utilized the SENCAR mouse and examined the effect of a magnetic field on skin tumor promotion induced by three different doses of TPA within its dose-response range, i.e. 0.85, 1.70 or 3.40 nmol, administered twice per week. SENCAR mice (56/treatment group) were exposed to a 60 Hz magnetic field having a flux density of 2 mT for 6 h/day for 5 days/week and compared with mice exposed to the ambient magnetic field. Tumor incidence and multiplicity were monitored weekly for 23 weeks of TPA promotion. Statistical evaluation of the effects of the magnetic field on tumor incidence and multiplicity did not reveal any statistically significant effects; thus, within the sensitivity limits imposed by the animal model and the exposure parameters employed, no promotional or co-promotional effect of a 2 mT magnetic field on skin tumor development in SENCAR mice could be demonstrated.
UV-induced immunosuppression and skin cancers]	The increased incidence of skin cancers is due to modifications of our behavior toward solar exposure. Photocarcinogenesis represents the sum of complex and intricate events that lead to the occurrence of skin cancers.
Lymphangiosarcoma of the pubic region: a rare complication arising in congenital non-hereditary lymphedema.	Lymphangiosarcoma is a rare, aggressive, vascular neoplasm arising in chronic congenital or acquired lymphedema. Although it is most frequently associated with post-mastectomy lymphedema (Stewart-Treves's syndrome), lymphangiosarcoma can exceptionally arise in congenital hereditary lymphedema (Milroy's syndrome and Meige's syndrome) and non-hereditary lymphedema (congenital, praecox or forme tarde lymphedemas). We report a case of lymphangiosarcoma of the pubic region, supported by immunohistochemical studies, in a 42-year-old woman affected by congenital, non-hereditary lymphedema of the left genital region and homolateral lower limb. In addition, molecular analysis demonstrated the absence of Kaposi's sarcoma-associated Herpes virus (KSHV) DNA sequences in tumour lesions. To our knowledge, this is the first case of lymphangiosarcoma associated with congenital non-hereditary lymphedema confined to the pubic region. The literature concerning the cases of lymphangiosarcoma arising in congenital hereditary and non-hereditary lymphedema is reviewed. Moreover, we emphasized the importance of regular clinical controls in all patients affected by chronic lymphedema. In fact, although the prognosis of this neoplasm is very poor, a prompt diagnosis and a rapid, ablative surgery associated with radiation therapy can increase the possibility of survival of these patients.
Squamous cell carcinoma associated with lupus vulgaris.	Squamous cell carcinomas are known to arise in certain chronic, scarring dermatoses and also to be associated with exposure to ultraviolet radiation. We now report a case arising in a plaque of lupus vulgaris, the patient having received radiation from a Finsen lamp as a child for a tuberculous abscess in that region.
Homologous recombination between p53 and its pseudogene in a radiation-induced mouse tumor.	Genome recombination is essential for life; however, its dysfunction causes cancer. Here we report the formation of a chimera structure of the p53 gene due to homologous recombination with the p53 pseudogene in tumors produced by repeated local beta-irradiation of the backs of mice. The recombination occurred near the 5' end of exon 5. Because this tumor carried a 5-bp deletion in exon 6 of the expressed p53 allele, and the defect in p53 is reported to elevate the cellular recombination activity, this chimera formation is thought to be initiated by a radiation-induced DNA double strand break in the p53-mutated cell with enhanced recombination. The abundance of this chimera structure was estimated to be 8% of the total of tumor p53, and the functional p53 side of this chimera had no deletion in exon 6. The indication is that the recombination occurred before the loss of heterozygosity of the mutated p53 allele took place but after a few divisions of the original heterozygous p53-mutated cell toward monoclonal expansion. A novel mechanism of cancer induction is suggested.
Aggressive NK cell lymphoma preceded by a ten year history of neutropenia associated with large granular lymphocyte lymphocytosis.	We report a case of aggressive natural killer (NK) cell lymphoma in an 82 year old man who first presented 10 years earlier with neutropenia in association with a large granular lymphocyte (LGL) lymphocytosis. The diagnosis of NK cell lymphoma was made on the basis of morphological and immunological characteristics (CD3-CD56+) found on skin biopsy of one of multiple skin nodules which subsequently developed in association with splenomegaly, thrombocytopenia and continuing neutropenia. In addition there was BM infiltration and a cytogenetic abnormality [add(6)(p25)] was detected. Combination chemotherapy led to an initial clinical response but a relapse occurred shortly afterwards and the patient died 8 months later from infection whilst neutropenic following re-introduction of chemotherapy. Previously reported cases of aggressive NK cell lymphoma have shown a young male predominance with a rapidly progressive clinical course and without evidence of a preceding chronic phase of LGL lymphocytosis and neutropenia.
