Infection and angiomatous cutaneous lesions]	The occurrence of angiomatous cutaneous lesions in the presence of an infective process is not a frequent phenomenon. Most infectious diseases are associated with an exanthematous reaction. The combination of an infective illness and angiomatous lesions is seen essentially in the bartonelloses and in Kaposi's disease. Bartonelloses: group of infections due to alpha-proteobacteria such as Bartonella. Bartonella bacilliformis (BB), is the causal agent of Carrion's disease, the chronic cutaneous form of which (verruga peruana), in which the vector is an arthropod of the Lutzomyia species found in South America, presents superficial and deep angiomatous cutaneous nodules. Spontaneous regression occurs in a few months or years. Bartonella henselae (BH) and Bartonella quintana (BQ), are the causal agents of bacillary angiomatosis (BA), described in 1983, in which angiomatous papules or nodules with an appearance like botryomycomas, are associated with visceral lesions. The characteristic histological features (with the demonstration or the bacilli by Warthin-Starry stain) together with culture of the bacterium in various tissues (including the blood) are diagnostic. BA occurs most commonly, but not exclusively, in patients with HIV infection. Furthermore, BH is responsible for cat scratch disease while BQ causes trench fever. The reservoir of BH is the cat. The bartonella produce angiogenic factors responsible for the neovascularisation seen in angiomatous lesions. The differential diagnosis is between botryomycomas and Kaposi's disease. Numerous antibiotics are effective against botryomycomas, particularly chloramphenicol and penicillin for BB and macrolides, cyclins and fluoroquinolones for BH and BQ. Kaposi's disease (KD): whether classical, endemic or epidemic (due to HIV infection) is characterised by cutaneous and visceral angiomatous lesions: these are associated with multifocal tumorous proliferations (of endothelial and fusiform cells) affected by angiogenic growth factors (PDGF, FGF, IL6, alphaTGF, HIVtat, androgens) and strongly linked to the lymphocytic and endothelial tropism of a gamma herpes virus (HHV8, Chang and Moore 1994). HHV8 infection, probably sexually transmitted, is also the cause of lymphomas occurring in cavities and of Castleman's disease. The course of KD is very variable: from the indolent form in elderly HIV-ve patients, to the explosive forms in the immunodepressed (particularly in HIV+ve patients.
Bacteria and fungi on the surface and within noninflamed hair follicles of skin biopsy specimens from horses with healthy skin or inflammatory dermatoses.	A retrospective study using light microscopy was performed to assess the prevalence of surface and follicular bacteria and fungi in skin biopsy specimens from 247 horses with inflammatory dermatoses and from 27 horses with healthy skin. Cocci were found on the surface of specimens from 23% (95% confidence interval 18%, 29%) and 7% (95% confidence interval, 0%, 19%), respectively, of horses with skin disease and horses with healthy skin. Of the nine dermatoses with at least 10 cases in our series of horses, bacterial folliculitis had a higher prevalence of surface bacteria (57%; 95% confidence interval 34%, 81%) than the other eight (which all had a prevalence < 30%). There was a significant association between the prevalence of surface cocci and the extent of epidermal hyperkeratosis. Cocci were found in the keratin of noninflamed hair follicles in only 2% of the horses with skin disease, and in none of the horses with healthy skin. Fungal poroconidia were found on the surface of 4% of the horses with skin disease, and on none of the horses with healthy skin. Yeasts were not found.
Organisms in an aspirate from an ulcerated mass: etiologic agent or mass-querade?	Smears prepared from a fine-needle aspirate of an ulcerated, dermal mass between the digits of a 9-month-old Bull Terrier puppy revealed a moderately cellular, mixed-cell inflammation with numerous extracellular organisms. The organisms were 3-8 microm in length, curved to oval in shape, with prominent nuclei, and (retrospectively) a rare single, narrow-based bud. The cytologic diagnosis was mycotic dermatitis due to infection with an unusual yeast. Histologic sections of the lesion showed pyogranulomatous inflammation without evidence of an infectious organism. Contamination of the cytologic smears was suspected to have taken place in the clinical pathology laboratory and was confirmed by the isolation of a yeast with identical microscopic features from a cactus located on a windowsill near the work bench. The yeast was cultured and identified as Rhodotorula minuta, an airborne contaminant and ubiquitous saprophyte. It can be difficult to differentiate external contamination from infection when interpreting a cytologic specimen, however, it is important to do so, especially for unusual or opportunistic pathogens.
Cytologic diagnosis of disease in amphibians.	Cytology is an inexpensive yet powerful diagnostic tool that allows for rapid diagnosis of many common disease conditions in amphibian patients. Although the emphasis of this article is on infectious diseases, there is great potential for application of cytologic diagnosis to variety of medical conditions as the knowledge base in amphibian medicine and pathology continues to grow. Routine methods used that may fall under the umbrella of cytology range from wet mount examination of skin scrapings (or gill biopsies of larvae) to examination of stained impression smears. Routine Romanowsky's-type stains work well for amphibian samples. Preparation of multiple smears is always recommended to allow for use of special staining procedures.
Inverse associations of Helicobacter pylori with asthma and allergy.	Acquisition of Helicobacter pylori, which predominantly occurs before age 10 years, may reduce risks of asthma and allergy.
Reactivation of herpes zoster (shingles) infection associated with an increased risk of death in immunocompetent older persons.	To determine whether cutaneous herpes zoster infection in immunocompetent older people is correlated with an increased risk for death.
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus pseudintermedius among dogs admitted to a small animal hospital.	The aim of this study was to determine the frequency of carriage of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus pseudintermedius (MRSP) among dogs admitted to a small animal hospital during a 17-month period, to characterize these isolates and to initially screen for possible factors associated with MRSP carriage. Swabs were taken from the nose/pharynx and the perineum as well as from wounds and skin infections (if present) of 814 dogs before entering the small animal hospital. A questionnaire for background information was completed. The staphylococcal species and methicillin resistance were confirmed pheno- and genotypically. The identified MRSP isolates were characterized by SCCmec typing, testing for susceptibility to 25 antimicrobial agents and SmaI-directed pulsed-field gel electrophoresis. A first screening for possible risk factors for MRSP carriage was performed by means of unifactorial contingency tables and CART analysis. Sixty (7.4%) dogs were positive for MRSP. All MRSP isolates harboured a type II-III SCCmec cassette and showed extended resistance to antimicrobial agents. Fifteen different SmaI patterns were observed. The major factors that clustered with MRSP carriage were former hospitalization and antibiotic treatment within the last six months before sampling. This study showed that only a minor part of the sampled dogs carried multi-resistant MRSP isolates. The facts that prior hospitalization and/or antibiotic therapy are potential associated factors for MRSP carriage underline the necessity of a judicious use of antibiotics in small animal medicine.
Syphilitic gastritis: demonstration of Treponema pallidum with the use of fluorescent treponemal antibody absorption complement and immunoperoxidase stains.	Because of the decrease in the overall incidence of syphilis, syphilitic involvement of stomach is seldom reported in the modern literature. Because of the nonspecific symptoms and signs of the disease, it is necessary to demonstrate Treponema pallidum in the gastric lesions to confirm the diagnosis. With the use of immunofluorescence and immunoperoxidase methods we have succeeded in identifying T. pallidum in the gastric wall of a patient who initially had cutaneous manifestations of secondary syphilis and gastric symptoms.
Virulence of protein A-deficient and alpha-toxin-deficient mutants of Staphylococcus aureus isolated by allele replacement.	The gene coding for protein A (spa) of Staphylococcus aureus 8325-4 has been inactivated by substituting part of the spa coding sequence for a DNA fragment specifying resistance to ethidium bromide. The in vitro-constructed spa::EtBrr substitution mutation was introduced into the S. aureus chromosome by recombinational allele replacement. Southern blot hybridization showed that the in vitro-constructed mutation was present in the chromosomal spa locus. We have previously reported the inactivation of the alpha-toxin gene (hly) by allele replacement with an in vitro-constructed hly::Emr (erythromycin resistance) mutation (M. O'Reilly, J.C.S. de Azavedo, S. Kennedy, and T.J. Foster, Microb. Pathogen. 1:125-138, 1986). A double Spa- Hly- mutant was constructed by transduction. The virulence of Spa- and Hly- mutants was tested by experimental infection of mice. When subcutaneous injections were given, Hly- mutants formed a flat, darkened lesion, whereas Hly+ strains caused a raised, cream lesion. Alpha-toxin was shown to be a major factor in forming subcutaneous lesions and in causing the death of mice injected intraperitoneally. Spa- mutants were slightly less virulent than their Spa+ counterparts, which suggests that protein A is also a virulence factor of S. aureus.
Augmentation of natural immune defence mechanisms and therapeutic potential of a mismatched double-stranded polynucleotide in cutaneous herpes simplex virus type 2 infection.	We studied the effect of an analogue of polyinosinic acid:polycytidylic acid, the mismatched poly(rI).poly(rC12U), on herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2)-induced cutaneous disease in the guinea-pig. Recurrence patterns and HSV-2-induced immune responses were also defined. Intranasal administration (1.5 micrograms/g body weight, five doses at 48 h intervals) of poly(rI).poly(rC12U) during initial HSV-2 infection caused a significant (P less than 0.05) reduction in virus titres in the skin and decreased (P less than 0.01) the duration and severity of the primary cutaneous lesions. The incidence and frequency of subsequent recurrent episodes were also significantly (P less than 0.01) reduced. Titres of serum neutralizing antibody were identical in treated and untreated animals. Interferon (IFN) activity was detectable in the sera from poly(rI).poly(rC12U)-treated animals. Peripheral blood mononuclear (PBL) and spleen cells from treated animals had enhanced cytotoxic activity for HSV-2-infected and uninfected target cells. The cytotoxic activity of the PBL was enhanced by treatment in vitro with poly(rI).poly(rC12U) or IFN.
Cell-free transmission and in vivo replication of Marek's disease virus.	Marek's disease virus recovered from the feather follicle of infected chickens was found to be infectious for chickens in cell-free preparations. The virus replicated in epithelial cells of the germinative layer of the feather follicle epidermis, producing both intranuclear and round or diffuse cytoplasmic inclusion bodies in the infected cells. It was found at this site 2 weeks postinoculation and prior to the development of tumor or other gross lesions. In the nucleus, many naked and a few enveloped herpesvirions were found, whereas the cytoplasm contained predominantly enveloped herpesvirions, which were usually within the cytoplasmic inclusion bodies. Approximately 80% of the extracellular virions were enveloped. Studies with both virulent and avirulent strains of the virus revealed a relationship between virulence, contagiousness, and replication of the virus in the feather follicle.
Metabolic-morphologic characteristics of the integument of teleost fish with mature lymphocystis nodules.	Normal and virus-infected (lymphocystis disease) integument from five species of teleosts was examined by light and TEM autoradiography and SEM to establish metabolic-morphologic characteristics of integument with mature lymphocystis cells (LC's). LC's with numerous morphologic attributes of a late developmental stage showed highest incorporation of [3H]-thymidine in vivo (1-91 h) above the intracytoplasmic inclusion body (ci) with little radiolabel in nuclei, cytoplasmic icosahedral deoxyriboviruses (ICDV's) or capsule. Analysis by quantitative autoradiography revealed that the % total cell label in ci and cytoplasm did not vary appreciably from 1-91 h and was corroborative with morphologic criteria of maturity. A possibly phylogenetic difference was noted between teleosts, wherein normal integument showed uptake of [3H]-thymidine in vivo (1 h) by cells at all levels of the epidermis, and cyclostomes (Spitzer et al. 1979) wherein labeling was confined to the basal third of the epidermis. Among four infected teleost species, the mean diameters of the ICDV's measured under the same conditions, ranged from 259.5 nm to 290.0 nm with the mean for each species differing significantly (p less than 0.01) from each of the other means. Ruptured LC's were shown by TEM and SEM to have released ICDV's onto the lesions and integument. Various stages of LC degeneration, host response, and integumental repair processes were documented. An evaluation of labeling in vivo of the capsular matrix was compatible ([3H]-D-galactose greater than [3H]-L-lysine much greater than [3H]-L-fucose) with a glycosaminoglycan-protein structure.
Infection with Mycobacterium marinum from an aquarium]	Clinical, histological and electron microscopical findings of swimming pool granuloma in a 19-year-old soldier are demonstrated. Isolation of Mycobacterium marinum and positive tests with the "Marinum Sensitin" confirmed diagnosis. Problems of treatment are discussed.
Molecular characterization of Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato strains by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis.	The large restriction fragment patterns (LRFP) and linear plasmid profiles of eight tick isolates of Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato were investigated with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE). The whole cell lysate was examined with sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). The MluI LRFP differentiates two species of Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato (Borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto and Borrelia garinii). LRFP is a suitable method to demonstrate genetic hetero- or homogeneity of isolates within one species without subsequent hybridization utilizing diverse probes. Different strains with similar or identical LRFP can be further discriminated by plasmid profile analysis. Our results show that each strain analyzed had a different plasmid profile. Therefore the linear plasmid profile has a potential application as a strain typing procedure. SDS-PAGE of whole-cell lysate supports the findings of homology within the B. burgdorferi sensu stricto species and the heterology within the B. garinii species.
Integration of traditional and modern methods in the identification of AFB cultures isolated from clinical specimens of patients with skin diseases.	This article reports the identification of 57 AFB cultures isolated from clinical specimens by using traditional methods (TM, including biochemical and cultural methods) and modern ELISA with monoclonal antibody (McAb-ELISA) and nested primer gene amplification assay (NPGAA). The representive AFB culture M. A1, A7, A19, A21 and A22) isolated from human lepromas were identified as new species by TM and it was shown that they were not identical to M. leprae by McAb-ELISA and NPGAA. Among another set of samples (M. S17, S1, S2, S2R, S7, S29), M. S17 was identical to M. scrofulaceum as assessed by TM only, while the others were found to be similar to M. tuberculosis and different from M. leprae using TM and McAb-ELISA, and identical to M. tuberculosis with NPGAA. The authors conclude that TM and MM are very useful for identifying mycobacteria, while MM was much more sensitive and specific than TM. The selection and use of these methods depends on practical need.
Southern blot analysis of skin biopsies for human papillomavirus DNA: renal allograft recipients in south-eastern Queensland.	The 104 skin biopsies from 34 patients who attended a Renal Transplant Unit in Brisbane over 12 months included 40 squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), 22 solar keratoses, 4 hyperkeratoses, 18 warts and 11 basal cell carcinoma (BCC). Human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA was identified by Southern blot hybridisation using, as individual probes, purified insert DNA from recombinant HPV 1, 2, 3 or 3/10, 4, 5 or 5/8, 7, 11, 16, 18 and 41 under relaxed conditions and characterised by restriction enzyme analysis and Southern blot hybridisation under more stringent conditions. Genomic HPV DNA was characterised in 7 skin biopsies from 4 renal allograft recipients (RARs): HPV 1A in a SCC (20 copies/cell) and a BCC (10 copies/cell) from the one patient, HPV 36 (20 copies/cell) in a SCC, HPV 1A [symbol: see text] 1000 copies/cell) in a wart and HPV 2B (200-800 copies/cell) in 3 warts from the one patient. Only HPV 1A in the SCC exhibited a significant degree of subtype variation. HPV DNA was identified in another 5 skin biopsies from another 4 RARs: HPV 3A in a wart and a hyperkeratosis, HPV 3/10-related DNA in 2 solar keratoses and HPV 5/8-related DNA in another (20-50 copies/cell). The incidence of HPV 5 (or 5-related HPVs) in RAR SCC was very low and that of HPV DNA in RAR warts was lower than that recorded elsewhere but this was not due to insensitivity of the assays. There was no evidence for a role for HPV in the aetiology of skin cancer in RARs in south-eastern Queensland but the possibility remains that as yet unidentified HPV types are involved.
