"Atypical" Spitz's nevus, "malignant" Spitz's nevus, and "metastasizing" Spitz's nevus: a critique in historical perspective of three concepts flawed fatally.	Our purpose in undertaking this Arbeit was to review all articles published about "atypical" Spitz's nevus, "malignant" Spitz's nevus, and "metastasizing" Spitz's nevus, to criticize them in a fashion that illuminates, and to come to conclusions compellingly about those subjects. We found that an overwhelming majority of neoplasms that claimed to be "atypical Spitz's nevus," "metastasizing Spitz's nevus," and "malignant Spitz's nevus" were, in fact, melanomas ( Table 1). Moreover, in our estimation, those designations, and variants of them, like "atypical Spitz's lesion," "atypical dermal melanocytic lesion with features of Spitz's nevus," "atypical Spitzoid melanocytic neoplasm," and "problematic Spitzoid melanocytic lesion," are mere evasions from a diagnosis, straightforwardly, of either Spitz's nevus or melanoma. Diagnoses in pathology equally bogus are "minimal deviation melanoma," "borderline melanoma," "nevoid melanoma," "potentially low-grade melanocytic neoplasm," and "melanocytic lesion of uncertain biologic potential." Rather than admit uncertainty forthrightly, those who employ circumlocutions like those just mentioned resort to linguistic maneuvers that, at first blush, seem to be "academic" and constructed in such a way as to appear to convey confidence, rather than tentativeness, on the part of a histopathologist. On further scrutiny, however, each of those cliches is revealed to be devoid of content. For example, "malignant" Spitz's nevus and "metastasizing" Spitz's nevus not only are contradictions in terms, but they are outrageous violations of fundamental principles of classic Virchowian pathology, and "atypical" Spitz's nevus not only is a redundancy because the neoplasm was so atypical to Spitz, herself, she insisted (from the time she spawned the idea in 194 through 1951 it was a "malignant melanoma," but is abject intellectually, those who invoke it never setting forth, in clear-cut fashion, criteria for what constitutes a "typical" Spitz's nevus in contradistinction to an "atypical" one.
The man behind the eponym: Lauren V. Ackerman and verrucous carcinoma of Ackerman.	In 1948, Lauren V. Ackerman described a neoplasm of the oral mucous membrane, which he thought represented a unique type of squamous cell carcinoma and that is now termed verrucous carcinoma of Ackerman. "Verrucous carcinoma" has also been used as a generic term under which are placed giant condyloma of Buschke-Loewenstein and carcinoma cuniculatum. This report will synopsize the life of Lauren Vedder Ackerman, review the original and subsequent report by Ackerman, and discuss some other reports of oral verrucous carcinoma. Because this review is directed to histopathologists, the histopathology will be emphasized. Other aspects of the neoplasm (eg, clinical picture, incidence, etiopathogenesis, and treatment) will not be discussed, or if so, only briefly. Giant condyloma acuminatum of Buschke-Loewenstein and carcinoma cuniculatum and studies that mention the occurrence of Ackerman's verrucous carcinoma in the pharynx, larynx, and esophagus will be mentioned only in the section on classification.
Cutaneous melanoma - "black death" of modern times? Traces in contemporary literature]	Cutaneous melanoma, sometimes labeled as "black skin cancer", is increasing in frequency and becoming a more common literary motive. In US literature, Sylvia Plath and Charles Bukowski depicted melanoma more than 50 years ago, later Stephen King and Thomas C. Boyle. In German literature, Charlotte Roche shortly mentioned this tumor. Jörg Pönnighaus, both poet and dermatologist, intensively deals in his poems with the effects melanoma has on patients and doctors alike. Melanoma definitely is not the "Black Death" of modern times. However, the perception of this tumor as extremely malignant and as life-threatening makes melanoma a metaphor of the deadly danger of cancer. 
The Proteus syndrome: the Elephant Man diagnosed.	Sir Frederick Treves first showed Joseph Merrick, the famous Elephant Man, to the Pathological Society of London in 1884. A diagnosis of neurofibromatosis was suggested in 1909 and was widely accepted. There is no evidence, however, of café au lait spots or histological proof of neurofibromas. It is also clear that Joseph Merrick's manifestations were much more bizarre than those commonly seen in neurofibromatosis. Evidence indicates that Merrick suffered from the Proteus syndrome and had the following features compatible with this diagnosis: macrocephaly; hyperostosis of the skull; hypertrophy of long bones; and thickened skin and subcutaneous tissues, particularly of the hands and feet, including plantar hyperplasia, lipomas, and other unspecified subcutaneous masses.
