A case of congenital multiple myofibromatosis developing in an infant.	Infantile myofibromatosis is marked by the development of firm, discrete, flesh-colored to purple nodules in skin, muscle, bone, and/or subcutaneous tissues. In cases without visceral involvement, the prognosis is excellent with expected spontaneous regression of nodules in 1 to 2 years. Visceral lesions are associated with significant morbidity and mortality generally within the first few months of life secondary to obstruction of a vital organ, failure to thrive, or infection.
Eccrine angiomatous hamartoma: report of a case and literature review.	Eccrine angiomatous hamartoma is a rare condition characterized histologically by increased numbers of eccrine structures and numerous capillary channels. Patients characteristically have a solitary, congenital nodule that may be painful and that may show hyperhidrosis. It is important to recognize this condition because it is a benign lesion for which aggressive treatment is not indicated. We report the case of a congenital eccrine angiomatous hamartoma that had a firm nodule studded with blue papules.
Giant congenital nevi: a 20-year experience and an algorithm for their management.	A variety of treatment options exists for the management of giant congenital nevi. Confusion over appropriate management is compounded because not all giant congenital nevi are pigmented, and malignant potential varies between different types. The present study sought to define factors in the presentation of giant congenital nevi that could provide an algorithm for their management, with respect to both the extent of resection and subsequent reconstructive options.A retrospective review of all patients who presented with a congenital nevus of 20 cm2 or greater since 1980 was performed, distinguishing among nevi involving the head and neck, the torso, and the extremities. Sixty-one patients with giant congenital nevi were evaluated (newborn to age 16 years), of which 60 nevi in 55 patients have been operated on. Giant congenital nevi having malignant potential were pigmented nevi (53 patients) and nevus sebaceus (four patients). Those not having malignant potential were verrucous epidermal nevi (three patients) and a woolly hair nevus (one patient). Of the 60 giant congenital nevi operated on, expanded flaps were used in 25, expanded full-thickness skin grafts were used in 10, split-thickness or nonexpanded full-thickness skin grafts were used in 13, and serial excision was used in 30. After 1989, operations tended to use multimodality treatment plans, with an increased use of expanded full-thickness grafts and immediate serial tissue expansion. The use of serial excision, particularly in the extremities, also increased after 1989. Serial excision was the treatment of choice when it could be completed in two procedures or less, which occurred in more than 80 percent of cases using serial excision alone. Expanded flaps were the most common mode of reconstruction in the head and neck region and were used in 49 percent of these procedures. Serial excision was the most common form of treatment in the extremities, used in 50 percent of procedures. Tissue expansion in the extremities was infrequently used to provide an expanded flap (8 percent of procedures), whereas it was frequently used to provide expanded full-thickness skin grafts harvested from the torso (used in 31 percent of procedures). On the basis of these data, algorithms for the extent of resection and subsequent reconstructive options for giant congenital nevi were developed. Their management should be formulated relative to pigmentation, malignant potential, and anatomic location of the respective lesions.
Carbon dioxide laser dermabrasion for giant congenital melanocytic nevi.	The management of giant congenital melanocytic nevi remains controversial. There is a balance to be achieved between minimizing the disfiguring appearance of these lesions, both before and after surgical treatment, and limiting the risk of malignant change. A series of seven patients who were treated in the same manner, with carbon dioxide laser dermabrasion, is presented. It has been 6 years since the first patient was treated in this way, and no cases of recurrence have been observed. This technique enables the removal of all or most of the pigmented lesion, with minimal scarring and without the need for disfiguring skin grafts. It has been well proved that there is an increased risk of malignant changes among patients with these lesions, although the amount of increased risk for the patient is not clear. Evidence from a review of the currently available literature is presented to indicate why this management method, at best, should decrease this risk and, at worst, should make no difference to the overall risk for individual patients.
Desmoplastic hairless hypopigmented naevus: a variant of giant congenital melanocytic naevus.	Desmoplasia has been described in melanoma and Spitz naevus but not in giant congenital melanocytic naevus (GCMN). In melanoma desmoplasia is associated with a better survival. Four paediatric patients with hard, ligneous, progressively hypopigmented and alopecic GCMN were seen among 143 cases of GCMN at the Department of Dermatology of the National Institute of Paediatrics, Mexico City. Clinically, induration was progressive in three patients and regressive in one. Pigmentation was regressive in all. Histopathologically, all four patients showed intense dermal fibrosis, scarce naevus cells, and hypotrophic or absent hair follicles. Follow-up and serial biopsies in three patients documented the progressive nature of fibrosis and naevus cell depletion. No evidence of malignant transformation was found. Naevus cell depletion resulted in pigment loss and may have reduced the risk of malignant transformation. Although the cause of fibrosis is unknown, the possibility of an immune reaction to naevus cells is postulated.
The 'Abtropfung phenomenon' revisited: Dermal nevus cells from congenital nevi cannot activate matrix metalloproteinase 2 (MMP-2).	Since Unna's Abtropfung hypothesis, the process of migration of nevus cells in the dermis remains unknown. To investigate its mechanisms, we studied the role of gelatinases in dermal nevus cells obtained from congenital pigmented nevi, which are major actors in the remodeling of basement membrane proteins. Our previous studies have shown that dermal nevus cells express pro-matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 exclusively and cannot return to the dermis when seeded together with keratinocytes on top of the dermis in a skin reconstruction model. To examine why MMP-2 was not in its active form, we used Western blot to study the expression of members of the MMP-2 activation pathway (membrane type 1-MMP and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-2), which proved to be normally expressed. To induce the dermal passage of nevus cells artificially, we also tried to activate gelatinases with phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate and epidermal growth factor, using epidermis reconstructed with nevus cells. No migration in the dermis could be triggered. We conclude that the absence of active MMP-2 is due to a functional blockade of its activation pathway and may prevent dermal nevus cells from reaching the dermal compartment in skin reconstructs. Furthermore, our findings reinforce the concept that dermal nevus cells originating from congenital nevi are in a quiescent status.
Birthmarks in 4346 Finnish newborns.	We examined all babies born live (4346) at two Finnish hospitals in the course of one year to determine the frequency of birthmarks, specially pigmented lesions, among Finnish newborns. All birthmarks excluding common salmon patches on the forehead and neck were recorded and photographed at birth. The babies were re-examined at the age of three months. Various birthmarks were recorded for 241 of 4346 babies, i.e. for 5.5% of all newborns. Ninety-one (2.1%) infants had congenital pigmented skin lesions, 167 (3.8%) had various vascular lesions and 21 (0.5%) had other birthmarks. The frequency of congenital melanocytic naevi was 1.5%. Most of the naevi were less than 20 mm in diameter. Only one child had a giant naevus. The frequency of congenital naevi in our study was the same or somewhat higher than previously described (1-8) but fewer other pigmented skin lesions were found than in previous studies perhaps due to racial differences.
Autosomal dominant inheritance of infantile myofibromatosis.	We present three families with infantile myofibromatosis (IM; OMIM no. 228550) inherited in an autosomal dominant (AD) manner. These three pedigrees prompted re-assessment of pedigrees available within the genetic, oncologic, surgical, and pathologic literature, which suggest autosomal recessive (AR) inheritance. All familial IM may be interpreted as AD or, alternatively, there may be genetic heterogeneity for IM. As most nodules tend to regress spontaneously, familial history may be difficult to obtain and/or confirm. Clinical diagnosis and establishment of inheritance pattern can be important for prognosis and the recognition that other family members may be affected.
Proliferative nodules in congenital melanocytic nevi: a clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical analysis.	Congenital melanocytic nevi (CMN) occur in 1% to 2% of newborns, and the risk of malignant melanoma is increased in patients with large CMN. Appearance at birth or later of a nodular or hyperpigmented area within a CMN simulates malignant melanoma and prompts biopsy. Although their clinical and pathologic features seem ominous, proliferative nodules (PNs) typically are benign and may regress, although atypical features cause greater concern. Here we report clinical and pathologic findings with outcome in 10 children who had multiple biopsies of large CMN with PNs. We reviewed 78 separate samples from the 10 patients and classified the 60 PNs according to published criteria. A subset of 30 samples containing both the CMN and a PNs was analyzed for immunohistochemical reactivity for melanocytic (S-100 protein, HMB45, melan-A), lymphocytic (CD45), cell-cycle/proliferative (Mib-1, p16, p21, p27, c-Myc), apoptotic (p53, Bax, c-kit, CD95), and anti-apoptotic (bcl-2) markers. Both CMN and PNs had similar expression of melanocytic, lymphocytic, and most cell-cycle/proliferative and apoptotic markers, including Mib-1, p16, p21, p27, c-Myc, Bax, CD95, and bcl-2. A greater proportion of PNs than CMN were reactive for p53 (67% vs. 30%, P < 0.0098) and c-kit (97% vs. 3%, P < 0.0001). p53 and p21 expression in CMN and all types of PNs were inversely correlated. When ordinary and atypical PNs were compared, the atypical PNs more frequently expressed p53, Mib-1, Bax, and bcl-2, but less frequently expressed p21. The c-kit expression in nearly all PNs and its absence in nearly all CMN is potentially useful for recognition of PN, suggests a delayed melanocytic maturation process in proliferative nodules, and may be likely indicative of their benign nature. p53 reactivity in concert with a lack of p21 up-regulation by immunohistochemistry suggests that a p53 mutation may be present in PN, although the immunohistochemical findings alone cannot exclude possible overexpression of wild-type p53. Regressive, involutional, or maturational changes were observed in sequential samples from 4 patients. No patient developed malignant melanoma or another melanocytic nevus-associated malignancy during the follow-up period. These findings underscore the similarities between PNs and the underlying CMN and suggest that maturational, proliferative, and apoptotic processes are involved in their clinical evolution.
Risk of melanoma arising in large congenital melanocytic nevi: a systematic review.	Large congenital melanocytic nevi are cutaneous lesions regarded by many as premalignant; estimates of malignancy incidence range from 0 to 42 percent. Given the often complex and extensive nature of large congenital melanocytic nevi resection and reconstruction, the risk of malignant transformation is a crucial factor that surgeons and families must weigh when deciding whether or not to excise the lesion. The authors conducted a systematic analysis of data from the existing literature to critically evaluate the published studies and to establish a crude incidence rate for the risk of malignant melanoma transformation in large congenital melanocytic nevi. After a comprehensive literature search, they analyzed data from eight studies (containing a total of 432 large congenital melanocytic nevi patients) of sufficient scientific quality. Twelve patients (2.8 percent) in this sample developed cutaneous malignant melanoma during the reported follow-up periods. Using a subset of this data and comparing the incidence rates to those of the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results population-based database using a standardized morbidity ratio, the authors found that the large congenital melanocytic nevi patients had an increased risk of melanoma (standardized morbidity ratio, 2599; 95 percent confidence interval, 844 to 6064) compared with the general population. Regarding treatment before developing melanoma in the 12 patients, 50 percent were observed before diagnosis, 17 percent had partial excision, 8.3 percent had dermabrasion, 8.3 percent had a chemical peel, and 17 percent did not have any treatment information. These combined data are clinically useful when consulting with the parents of children with large congenital melanocytic nevi and in the management of older patients with existing lesions. This study shows that there is a significantly increased risk of melanoma in large congenital melanocytic nevi patients. The data also reveal the need for a standardized definition of large congenital melanocytic nevi and a long-term, prospective outcomes study to determine the true lifetime risk of melanoma in patients with and without surgical excision.
Fine needle aspiration cytology of breast cylindroma in a woman with familial cylindromatosis: a case report.	That sweat gland type tumors occur occasionally in the breast is not surprising, as the breast and cutaneous sweat glands are embryologically related. Cylindromas present most commonly as solitary and sporadic dermal nodules on the face and scalp. Cases of multiple cylindromas are dominantly inherited, and the neoplasms are referred to as "turban tumors" when multiple lesions cover the scalp. Primary cylindroma of the breast has been reported once in the past. To the best of our knowledge, the fine needle aspiration cytology of primary breast cylindroma and its occurrence in the setting of familial cylindromatosis have not previously been reported.
Aesthetic reconstruction of large scalp defects by sequential tissue expansion without interval.	Tissue expansion is indicated in the reconstruction of various scalp defects when there is inadequate adjacent tissue to allow either primary closure of the defect or repair with a local flap. It is the most important armamentarium for aesthetic hair-bearing scalp reconstruction in cases of congenital or required defects. This technique was used sequentially without interval to achieve scalp reconstruction for 12 patients with a defect ranging from 30% to 75% of the scalp (average, 55%). For 12 patients, 32 expansion treatments were undertaken between September 1997 and January 2002. The 12 patients included 3 women, 4 men, and 5 children with a mean age of 20 years (range, 45 days to 36 years). All patients had more than one period of treatment. The most common conditions treated were burns (n=7), trauma (n=1), congenital naevi (n=2), and male pattern baldness (n=2). Reconstruction of 12 large scalp defects has been performed with a 3.1% rate of major complications. Results show that tissue expansion is a safe and efficient but time-consuming technique for aesthetic scalp reconstruction, especially in the case of "sideburn" scenario or large defects. There was no significant alteration in ratio of complications although tissue expansions were made sequentially.
Treatment of large and giant nevi.	Excision of large and giant melanocytic nevi presents a distinct challenge to the pediatric plastic surgeon. The exact risk of malignant degeneration remains unknown. These unsightly lesions can be psychologically damaging to both parent and child. The pediatric plastic surgeon must have an armamentarium of techniques for reconstructing the various body areas and must always balance aesthetic and functional outcomes against an unknown but low risk of malignancy.
Current management of hemangiomas and vascular malformations.	This article outlines the classification of vascular anomalies, which include vascular tumors and vascular malformations. We describe the nomenclature, diagnosis, and management of the different types of anomalies. Specific indications for pharmacologic and surgical intervention are discussed.
Congenital panfollicular nevus: report of a new entity.	The various forms of non-melanocytic nevi (hamartomas) are usually encountered in pediatric patients, and nevus sebaceous of Jadassohn is the most common to have undifferentiated pilosebaceous units. We report a unique congenital follicular nevus that fails to meet the criteria of any previously described follicular neoplasm, despite the plethora of alternatives. Clinically considered a syringocystadenoma papilliferum, the excised lesion contained multiple dermal nodules that exhibited nearly all stages of follicular differentiation. The periodicity of the follicular proliferations was akin to normal terminal hair, and a prominent perifollicular sheath surrounded each. This benign lesion of abortive hair follicles was unassociated with any established genodermatous syndrome or other adnexal neoplasm.
Familial multiple lateral telangiectatic nevi (port-wine stains or nevi flammei).	Two families with multiple lateral telangiectatic nevi (LTN) (port-wine stains or nevi flammei) in various areas of the body in two and three generations are presented. In the second family, some members in addition to LTN also had superficial (strawberry) hemangiomas and hemangioma-like venous malformations. The pedigrees of these families indicate autosomal dominant inheritance of multiple LTN.
The congenital bregmatic dermoid: an African cyst?	Thirty-five children with bregmatic dermoids were operated on at the Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital and Groote Schuur Hospital between 1969 and 1990. Most children were under 1 year of age; 20 were males and 15 females. Thirty-one were African or of African descent, two were Indian and two Caucasian, an ethnic distribution which roughly approximates the ethnic ratio of patients attending our hospital. Most were investigated with skull X-rays and CT scan, but MRI was performed where further clarity was needed. Other lesions mimicking bregmatic dermoids included four haemagiomas, two hamartomas, two lipomas and one encephalocoele through the anterior fontanelle. One bregmatic lipoma was associated with a lipoma of the corpus callosum. All bregmatic cysts were removed through a simple elliptical incision and on connection with the central nervous system or its coverings was encountered in any patient. The pathology in all specimens reviewed (75%) revealed skin appendages to be present in the cyst wall. No epidermoids were found in this series. This series is the largest to date and adds another 31 patients of African descent to the accumulated literature which suggests that although universally distributed, the bregmatic dermoid still appears to be more common in Africans or their descendants.
Dermoscopy of an acral congenital melanocytic nevus.	Congenital melanocytic nevi carry a risk for malignant transformation into melanoma, therefore early detection of suspicious features is crucial to reduce mortality rates. Dermoscopy improves the early detection of melanoma while reducing the number of unnecessary excisions of benign pigmented skin lesions. Dermoscopically, congenital melanocytic nevi are often characterized by the presence of a cobblestone pattern, but to date, little is known about the dermoscopic features of acral congenital melanocytic nevi. We report an acral congenital melanocytic nevus typified by the presence of three different dermoscopic patterns that are commonly seen in acquired melanocytic nevi of palms and soles.
Malignant melanoma with evidence of maturation arising from a giant congenital nevocellular nevus.	The association between melanoma and giant congenital nevocellular nevus has been well documented, although controversy still exists regarding the precise incidence. The following patient report illustrates the excision of malignant melanoma arising from a giant congenital nevocellular nevus in a 4-month-old infant. The child had malignant melanoma with deep dermal involvement diagnosed by incisional biopsy with positive margins. She underwent subsequent en bloc resection of the original biopsy site and nevus. The reexcision specimen showed no evidence of malignancy. No adjuvant chemotherapy was used. The child is disease free at 5 years. It is possible that very young children (infants) with melanoma arising in a giant congenital nevocellular nevus may have a good prognosis.
Topical imiquimod in the treatment of infantile hemangiomas: a retrospective study.	Active nonintervention remains the mainstay of therapy for most uncomplicated infantile hemangiomas (IH) because of their expected involution. Topical imiquimod, with its ability to induce the production of interferon, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and the antiangiogenesis factor tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase, has been recently reported to be efficacious in the treatment of IH.
Pediatric surgical pearls: minimizing complications.	Performing dermatologic surgery in infants and children presents unique challenges. A thorough understanding of both pediatric developmental milestones and their unique surgical circumstances is essential to providing optimal dermatologic care of the pediatric patient. In this work, we combine the authors' experiences with data from the literature to provide pediatric dermatologic procedural pearls.
Antenatal diagnosis of rapidly involuting congenital hemangiomas (RICH)]	Since 1996, vascular anomalies are classified either as tumors or malformations. Infantile hemangioma is the most common vascular tumor. It is an endothelial cellular proliferation, stimulated after birth (10th day) which then slow involves. Congenital hemangioma is a different kind of hemangioma develops prenatally appearing fully grown at birth. Rapidly involuting congenital hemangioma (RICH) generally involutes spontaneously while non involuting congenital hemangioma (NICH) usually requires a surgical procedure. The clinical and radiological aspects of these two tumors differ significantly at birth. Most congenital hemangiomas detected at antenatal ultrasonography, due to their cephalic localization and their size (up to 10 cm) are RICH.
Divided nevus of the eyelids: three case studies.	Divided nevus or kissing nevus is a rare form of congenital nevus that usually occurs on adjacent parts of the upper and lower eyelids of one eye. Most often, the formation is present from birth, but it may also appear later. Three new cases during the period 1996 to 2004 are reported. Two of them were treated in our unit for oncological, functional and aesthetic purposes, and one preferred not to be operated on. All our patients had divided nevus of the left eyelid. In the first case, the reconstruction was achieved with two tarso-conjunctival flaps covered with skin grafts. In the second case, we used a technique based on autologous cultivated conjunctival epithelium. The third patient preferred not to be operated on and is still under clinical follow-up. Because of the severe disfigurement, risk of later malignant change in the lesion, and the possibility of deprivation amblyopia, early surgical treatment is very important.
Widespread porokeratotic eccrine ostial and dermal duct nevus along Blaschko lines.	Porokeratotic eccrine ostial and dermal duct nevus is a congenital hamartoma of possible eccrine origin with no malignant potential. It is usually localized at the extremity of a single limb, while wider systematized distribution has rarely been documented. A child with an unusually widespread nevus following Blaschko lines is reported. The disorder had a striking presentation in the form of a systematized linear epidermal nevus composed of multiple tiny filiform keratotic spines, which histologically corresponded to columns of porokeratosis. Serial histopathologic sections of a 4-mm punch biopsy specimen barely demonstrated an anatomic relationship between the porokeratotic columns and the underlying acrosyringeal duct. This report provides further evidence of porokeratotic eccrine ostial and dermal duct nevus being distributed along Blaschko lines, thus confirming it is a peculiar epidermal nevus due to a mosaic cutaneous condition.
Congenital and acquired melanocytomas (benign melanomas) in eighteen young horses.	In a retrospective study, cutaneous melanocytic tumors from 18 horses, less than 2 years old, were examined histopathologically and clinical follow-up requested. Melanocytomas (benign melanomas) occurred in a variety of breeds and in horses of varied coat color. The age of the horses at the time of biopsy ranged from 3 weeks old to 2 years old. Four melanocytomas were congenital, 11 melanocytomas were acquired by 1 year of age, and three were acquired prior to 2 years of age. Of the 18 horses, five were male, and 13 were female. All tumors were solitary and located on the legs or trunk; none were in the perineal region. Ulceration of the overlying epidermis was common. Tumors were generally localized and were not encapsulated. The tumors had a variety of cell patterns ranging from sheets, to streams, or nests of melanocytes. Cellular morphologic findings also ranged from epithelioid, to a mixture of epithelioid and spindle cells or to a spindle pattern. The nuclei were large and euchromatic, especially in the epithelioid cells. Several tumors had moderate cellular pleomorphism and binucleate cells. Mitotic activity was generally low (less than 1/high-powered field), but was readily detected (1-2/high-powered field) in bleached sections of four cases. Melanin pigmentation varied from mild to heavy. Melanophages were admixed with the tumor cells or in the adjacent tissue. Follow-up information was obtained on 15/18 horses and revealed that 14/15 horses were free of recurrence following excision. One neoplasm, that was poorly demarcated and had a spindle cell pattern, was not completely resected and continued to grow. These melanocytic tumors in young horses are distinct from melanomas in aged horses in their location, epithelial involvement, and age of horses affected. The majority of these tumors appear to be benign and share features of melanocytic nevi of human beings.
Surgical treatment for giant congenital nevi: what are the psychosocial consequences for the child and family?]	Giant congenital nevus is a rare pathology. The incidence of malignant transformation exists and his unsightly aspect requires a early surgical treatment. All techniques of plastic surgery must have to be used. The management of the skin capital is a real surgical challenge with complications which are difficult to bear psychologically and physically for these young children. Authors present psychosocial effects of this pathology then surgical practice through 105 cases analysed. The majority of the patients had axial disposition of the nevus (head and trunk) and tissue expansion was the most utilised technique. A questionnaire estimated the notion of other's looking, congenital deformity's acceptance, surgical story's transmission, family's opinion of the surgical treatment. More than the half of families feel that their child was cast-off because of deformity. A lot of family would forget the nevus and never photographed their child with nevus. Sometimes, children could not explain their scars. Despite many hospitalisations, all the children have normal schooling and extra-school activities. It's important to begin surgical plan very early so that child could integrate their scars in their corporal schema.
Estrogens influence the natural history of Sinclair swine cutaneous melanoma.	Initial results (Cancer Res., 48: 1708-1711, 1988) suggest that ovariectomy alters the proliferation of congenital exophytic melanoma in Sinclair swine. In order to provide a phenotypic basis for this effect, histopathological staging of 375 exophytic melanomas from 236 intact male and female Sinclair swine was compared with 114 lesions from 51 gonadectomized (6 weeks of age) and 90 lesions from castrated swine receiving s.c. silastic implants of estradiol during the first year of life. A rapid progression from actively proliferating tumor cells (Stages I-III) to regressive lesions (Stages IV-V) was virtually complete by 16 weeks of age in intact swine of both sexes. Bilateral ovariectomy reduced (P less than 0.02) tumor volume over time compared with intact animals. Replacement of estradiol in gilts increased tumor volume to that in intact animals. In contrast, neither bilateral orchidectomy nor estradiol replacement altered tumor volume in boars. Ovariectomy significantly reduced the tumor macrophage, keratinocyte, and fibroblast invasion that normally replaces tumor cells and expands tumor volume (Stages IV and V) with increasing age. Chronic exposure to estradiol reversed this process. Orchidectomy and estradiol replacement did not significantly affect histopathological stage in boars with increasing age. A significant number (20 of 41; 49%) of Stage III lesions (greater than 75% tumor cells) in swine of both sexes contained low but reproducibly measurable amounts of receptor for estrogen determined radiometrically and by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. These results suggest that reproductive steroids influence the natural history of these heritable lesions, and that the effect may be via alteration of host immune status.
Congenital malignant melanoma.	A case is reported of congenital malignant melanoma that occurred in the absence of maternal melanoma or a congenital giant naevus. The patient had the melanoma on the left thigh excised 54 days after birth, but later died at the age of 18 months with multiple metastases.
A study of the efficacy of carbon dioxide and pigment-specific lasers in the treatment of medium-sized congenital melanocytic naevi.	Treatment of medium-sized congenital melanocytic naevi (CMN) can be challenging.
Prevalence of birthmarks and transient skin lesions in 1,000 Spanish newborns]	Almost all newborn children have some sort of birthmark or transient benign skin lesion. Few studies, however, have analyzed their frequency, particularly in Spain. The aims of this study were to determine their prevalence in 1000 newborn children in the health care area of Ferrol in northwest Spain and to compare the results with those of 9 other studies with similar characteristics.
Satellite lesions in congenital melanocytic nevi--time for a change of name.	The term "satellite lesions" is used in many conditions in dermatology, generally to describe smaller lesions near the edges of a principal lesion. An online medical dictionary gives the definition "a smaller lesion accompanying a main one and situated nearby," and this can apply both macroscopically and microscopically. The implication is that the smaller lesions have spread from the parent lesion. Given this definition and usual understanding of the term its use is not apt in the case of congenital melanocytic nevi (CMN). In the vast majority of cases where the patient is said to have satellite lesions these are not restricted to the area around or near the edge of the principal lesion, and are not necessarily significantly smaller. It seems likely that the early use of the term in this condition is an adaptation of the established and correct use in the context of melanoma. Not only is the term not apt clinically but has no known etiological basis. This leaves us with the question of what to call these lesions in cases of CMN. This proposal is to categorize cases into single or multiple CMN, where multiple is 2 or more nevi of any size at birth. An accurate count or good estimate of the number of lesions at birth should also be recorded, and the largest lesion classified as usual with respect to projected adult size.
Congenital cutaneous angioleiomyoma.	Congenital cutaneous angioleiomyoma is an extremely rare benign smooth muscle tumor. We present a case of a firm, painful subcutaneous mass noticed at birth on the left leg that on surgical excision proved to be an angioleiomyoma. Prognosis is good, and recurrences are uncommon. To our knowledge, this is the second report of a congenital angioleiomyoma.
Multiple congenital familial smooth muscle hamartoma in two siblings.	Smooth muscle hamartoma (SMH) is a cutaneous malformation mainly composed of a disorganized proliferation of normal muscle fibers that arise from arrector pili. It usually presents as a single congenital lesion that frequently involves the back and the lower limbs. Unusual clinical presentations, such as atypical localizations, multiple disseminated lesions, and generalized forms have been rarely described. In 2001, Gualandri et al. reported the presence of multiple SMH in three members of the same family, namely two brothers and their mother. This is, as far as we know, the only familial case reported in the English literature. We herein describe a similar case affecting two siblings who presented with identical congenital lesions in the same location.
Congenital papulonodular eruption: presenting sign of congenital leukaemia cutis.	Congenital leukaemia (CL) is a rare malignancy that accounts for < 1% of cases of childhood leukaemias. Leukaemia cutis (LC) refers to cutaneous infiltration with leukaemic cells, and is seen in 30-50% of CL cases. It may precede, follow or occur simultaneously with leukaemia. If left untreated, the prognosis is usually poor, but early diagnosis and treatment may result in a favourable prognosis. We report a case of congenital leukaemia cutis with a progressive, violaceous papulonodular eruption (a 'blueberry muffin' rash), which had been noted at birth, as a presenting sign of acute myeloid leukaemia (AML), which on investigation was classified as AML, FAB M2 type with a t(8; 21)(p11;q22) chromosomal defect. The patient had a favourable response to AML chemotherapy.
Giant congenital melanocytic naevi: review of literature.	Giant congenital pigmented naevi is a great reconstructive challenge for the pediatric and plastic surgeons. Due to the increased risk of malignant transformation in such lesions, many procedures have been used to remove giant congenital naevi like dermoabrasion, laser treatment or surgical excision combined with reconstruction through skin expansion or skin grafting; among these, only a complete excision can offer an efficacious treatment. In our centre we use the "tissue expansion" technique in order to achieve a sufficient quantity of normal skin to perform a both staged and radical excision of these giant lesions.
Becker's nevus syndrome with quadriparesis.	A 12-year-old girl presented to Manipal Teaching Hospital with quadriparesis of 8 months' duration. Examination revealed a hyperpigmented patch over the chest wall with overlying hypertrichosis, musculoskeletal anomalies, upper limb asymmetry and ipsilateral breast hypoplasia. MRI scan revealed cranio-vertebral junction anomaly and spina bifida occulta at the cervical spine level. Histopathological examination of the skin revealed findings consistent with Becker's nevus. Based on the patient's clinical presentation and investigations, a diagnosis of Becker's nevus syndrome was made. However, she was managed conservatively as surgical intervention was not suitable in her case. The authors review Becker's nevus syndrome and its clinical manifestations below.
Indication for early excision of the giant congenital nevus]	Most of specialists involved in giant congenital nevi (GCN) care, agree that the risk of melanoma is probably not significant enough to warrant the prophylactic removal of all those lesions. However, many patients benefit from very early surgical procedures.
Infantile myofibromatosis: report on a family with autosomal dominant inheritance and variable penetrance.	Infantile myofibromatosis (IM) is a benign tumor occurring in infants and young children. Familial IM is rare and the inheritance pattern of IM is unclear. We report on a unique family with four individuals having IM of varying degrees of severity with autosomal dominant inheritance pattern and variable penetrance.
Lipomatous congenital melanocytic nevus presenting as a neck mass in a young adult.	Congenital melanocytic nevus (CMN) is a melanocytic proliferation that has its onset at birth or shortly thereafter and shows characteristic histopathologic features including symmetric proliferation of benign melanocytes, extension of nevus cells into the deep reticular dermis and subcutis, maturation of melanocytes with descent, tracking of melanocytes around and within adnexal structures, vessels, or nerves and splaying of collagen bundles by nevus cells arranged in single rows or cords. We report the case of a 34 year old previously healthy woman who presented with a progressively enlarging soft tissue mass in the right neck and back adjacent to a medium sized CMN. Magnetic resonance imaging showed multiple lipomatous masses within the soft tissues of the posterior superficial neck. Subsequent excision of the soft tissue mass showed a well circumscribed lipomatous lesion with diffuse infiltration by benign appearing melanocytes within the fat lobules. Excision of the mass was not accompanied by overlying skin and, thus, posed a diagnostic challenge. Sudden increase in the size of a CMN is worrisome for the development of a melanoma, however, this lesion lacked significant cytologic atypia and mitotic figures, and had a low proliferative index by Ki-67 immunohistochemistry. This case serves to illustrate the initial diagnostic dilemma as well as the plasticity of the neural crest cells. 
Characteristics of noninvoluting congenital hemangioma: a retrospective review.	Noninvoluting congenital hemangioma (NICH) is a distinct vascular tumor of infancy.
Congenital malignant melanoma of the scalp in a 25-day-old neonate.	We present a case of congenital malignant melanoma of the scalp in a neonate. The child was born through caesarean section with a swelling, the size of a tennis ball, on the posterior scalp. At presentation to the clinic at 25 days after birth, the swelling had significantly increased in size and ulcerated. An excision was carried out but, because of extensive haemorrhage and haemodynamic instability, the procedure was limited to subtotal resection. Later on, completion of the excision and flap coverage of the wound were performed. After an initial stable course of a few months, the child came back with local recurrence. A re-excision was planned but the child developed pneumonia resulting in sepsis leading to the demise of the child. The report adds to the literature by describing a rare entity and challenges of managing large vascular scalp lesions with complete excision and defect coverage. 
Immunofluorescence and electron microscopic findings in a congenital arrector pili hamartoma.	A congenital arrector pili hamartoma is a neoplasm that presents as multiple or solitary dermal nodules in a dermatomal distribution. To elucidate and clarify its histogenesis, a lesion derived from a 3-year-old boy was studied by light microscopy, indirect immunofluorescence, using antibodies against basal lamina constituents and against interstitial matrix components, and electron microscopy. In addition, a rabbit antibody specific for bovine smooth-muscle myosin was used. The antibodies against the basal lamina components and fibronectin all showed an intense perimysial fluorescence that ensheathed and surrounded individual leiomyocytes. Anti-smooth-muscle myosin exhibited intense cytoplasmic fluorescence. Furthermore, electron microscopy showed fusiform cells with abundant myofilaments, dense bodies, and pericellular basal lamina as seen in smooth muscle. These studies suggest the probable origin of this hamartoma from pili arrector muscle and could be used as an adjunct in histopathological diagnosis.
Congenital pseudomelanoma]	Benign congenital melanocytic nevi, removed shortly after birth, may histologically be misinterpreted as malignant melanomas. We present the criteria for the differential diagnosis. As a name for these unusual melanocytic tumors, which belong to the large group of pseudomalignancies of the skin, we suggest the term 'congenital pseudomelanoma'.
Heterotropic brain tissue presenting as bald cysts with a collar of hypertrophic hair. The 'hair collar' sign.	We report the cases of two children who were each noted at birth to have a single bald compressible nodule on the scalp that was surrounded by a collar of hypertrophic hair. One of the mothers had taken doxylamine succinate during pregnancy. Extensive investigations and, finally, surgery revealed that the lesions were heterotropic brain tissue without connection to the brain. Encephaloceles may also have a "hair collar." The presence of a hair collar around any cutaneous lesion should alert the clinician to the possibility of a neuroectodermal defect. All procedures on these lesions should be delayed until appropriate investigations have excluded any connection with the underlying nervous system.
Simultaneous discovery of a malignant histiocytosis in a newborn and a preleukemic syndrome in his mother (author's transl)]	A malignant histiocytosis in a newborn was found at the same time than a preleukemic syndrome in his mother (less than 10% myeloblasts with Auer rods). An overt myeloblastic leukemia occurs in the mother in the next four months. This uncommon association was presented and discussed.
Embolization therapy in the management of infantile hemangioma with Kasabach Merritt syndrome.	A case is presented in which a giant infantile hemangioma with thrombocytopenia is managed successfully by serial transcatheter embolization.
Congenital malignant melanoma.	A 6-week-old girl with congenital melanoma of the skin is reported and the literature is reviewed. We believe this to be the first case of congenital melanoma in a black infant who had no underlying giant melanocytic nevus. Because of the significant relationship between the early treatment and prognosis of malignant melanoma, we wish to alert pediatric clinicians to the existence of this rare congenital neoplasm.
Incidence of congenital melanocytic nevi in newborn babies in Denmark.	Three hundred fourteen unselected babies were examined within 96 hours of delivery. Three (1%) of the infants had clinically recognizable pigmented lesions. Two of the lesions (mean, 0.6%; range, 0.1%-2.3%; 95% confidence limits) proved histologically to be compound melanocytic nevi. The histology displayed almost identical patterns, with large nests of melanocytes at the dermoepidermal junction and only few nevus cells in the papillary dermis. A 0.6% incidence rate corresponds to 330 congenital melanocytic nevi in Denmark each year (range, 55-1265; 95% confidence limits). Because histology does not seem to be an accurate diagnostic tool to sort out the malignant potential of the small congenital melanocytic nevi, prospective studies are needed to characterize the premalignant melanocytic nevi, whether congenital or acquired.
Large congenital melanocytic nevus. Light and electron microscopic findings.	The family of a 10-month-old black girl with a large periocular congenital melanocytic nevus (CMN) was given markedly differing advice from experienced physicians regarding how the lesion should be managed. The nevus was eventually removed surgically because of concern about the risk of malignant transformation and because of its cosmetic appearance. Histologically, the lesion was a dermal nevus, but extended deeply into subcutaneous tissue and had neuroid features. The ultrastructural characteristics of melanocytes varied according to the depth at which they resided, but cells did not differ basically from melanocytes found in smaller acquired nevi. Given the limited understanding of the biologic basis for malignant transformation, large size remains the most important risk factor in CMN.
Giant congenital neuroid melanocytic nevus.	A patient with a variety of nevus cell nevi, a congenital giant melanocytic nevus, abnormal facies, vascular anomaly of the leg, and mental retardation was examined. The patient also had neuroid elements within the giant nevus that led to the consideration of neurofibromatosis. Because neurofibromatosis is a genetically determined condition with tissue different from the neuroid elements seen in giant nevi, the two conditions are considered to be different entities. Malignant transformation of congenital giant pigmented nevi occurs, although the incidence of such transformation remains a subject of controversy.
Congenital giant nevi. Clinical picture and therapy]	Congenital giant nevi are rare. There is high risk of malignant melanoma in large congenital nevi. Therefore the early operative removal is advised, not only for the prevention of malignant tumors, but also for psychologic and social reasons. The surgical and reconstructive methods include serial excisions, free skin-grafts and local pedicled flaps. The special advantages of free full-thickness grafts in the treatment of giant nevi in the facial region are outline.
Incontinentia pigmenti achromians (systematized depigmented nevus)]	Two girls of 1 1/2 und 4 years age and described with linear, arch-like depigementations which appeared in early childhood. In both children no additional abnormalities could be found. The problem of terminology is briefly discussed, and it is proposed to interpret this syndrome as a variant of a systematized naevus depigmentosus. There seems to be no justification for turning this clinical entity into a new syndrome, when the only clinical signs are the characteristic depigmentations without any additional abnormalities.
Congenital inclusion dermoid cyst located over the region of the anterior fontanel in adult Nigerians: report of two cases.	Two cases of a congenital inclusion dermoid cyst located over the region of the anterior fontanel are described in adult Nigerians, aged 28 and 32 years. In both cases, the cystic lesion was noticed at birth over the anterior fontanel as a small soft lump, and was carried on the head from infancy into adult life. The clinical, radiological, and the operative findings revealed no intracranial extension. The two lesions were histologically verified as dermoid cysts. Surgical excision was curative.
Naevus spilus as a precursor of cutaneous melanoma: report of a case and literature review.	Naevus spilus is defined as a melanocytic macule in which there are dark maculopapular speckles. We describe a patient with a superficial spreading malignant melanoma arising in a congenital naevus spilus, and review the literature on this association.
Birthmarks and congenital skin lesions in Chinese newborns.	The presence of various types of birthmarks was determined in 3,345 Chinese infants under 48 hours of age. Mongolian spots were present in 86.3% of the studied infants. Vascular lesions included salmon patch (22.6%), port-wine stain (0.4%), and strawberry marks (0.7%). Nevocellular nevi (1%), sebaceous nevi (0.1%), and café au lait spots (0.4%) were also found. The following non-birthmark skin changes were observed: erythema toxicum neonatorum (33.7%), preauricular tags (1.3%), preauricular pits (2.5%) and a hyperpigmented scrotum (31.3%; in 1,727 male infants), which was related to the presence of mongolian spots.
Severely atypical medium-sized congenital nevus with widespread satellitosis and placental deposits in a neonate: the problem of congenital melanoma and its simulants.	We describe a neonate with a highly atypical melanocytic proliferation that arose in a medium-sized congenital nevus, in association with multiple cutaneous satellite lesions and placental deposits. The patient's pathologic findings and benign clinical course to date raise the problem of diagnosis of congenital melanoma and the importance of clinical follow-up to determine the biologic behavior of severely atypical, histologically malignant proliferations in congenital melanocytic nevi.
Plaque-type blue nevus on the face: a variant of Ota's nevus?	We describe a plaque-type blue nevus that had been present since birth on the right cheek of a 22-year-old man. It was characterized by several dark blue macules and papules with intervening areas of faint blue discoloration. Histologic examination showed a common blue nevus and a mongolian spot-like dermal melanocytosis in the dark blue and intervening faint blue pigmentary lesions, respectively.
Nevoid hypertrichosis: multiple patches associated with premature graying of lesional hair.	A 23-month-old Caucasian girl had congenital circumscribed areas of deeply pigmented terminal hairs that gradually lost their pigment over the next two years. Physical examination revealed no other abnormalities. Histologic examination demonstrated terminal hair in otherwise normal skin consistent with nevoid hypertrichosis. The clinical and histologic characteristics of nevoid hypertrichosis are compared with other types of hypertrichotic patches.
Malignant schwannoma with melanocytic and neuroepithelial differentiation in an infant with congenital giant melanocytic nevus: a complex neurocristopathy.	We describe an infant girl, born with a pigmented giant nevus, who developed a malignant schwannoma in the retroperitoneum at 16 months of age. At birth the nevus covered over 50% of her body and histologically was a compound nevus with extension into the deep dermis surrounding dermal appendages. The malignant schwannoma was biphasic with areas composed of spindle and round cells. Ultrastructurally, the majority of the tumor cells exhibited a Schwann cell phenotype, but neuroepithelial and melanocytic cells were identified as well. We believe that this constellation of findings represents a form of neurocristopathy. Neurocristopathy, as defined by Bolande (Hum Pathol 5:409-429, 1974), is a disease that results from aberrations in the migration, growth, or cytodifferentiation of neural crest tissues. These diseases may be simple (a singular pathologic process, usually localized) or complex (multiple neuroectodermal lesions). We report this case because the occurrence of retroperitoneal malignant schwannoma arising in a 16-month-old infant born with a pigmented giant nevus is unique, and may represent a previously undescribed form of a complex neurocristopathy.
Histogenesis and mechanism of regression of congenital cutaneous angiomas in children (electron-microscopic study)]	The ultrastructure of hemangiomas of the skin was investigated in 4 children at the age of 3 to 6 months. Histologically, the hemangiomas were represented by hypertrophic and capillar forms. Tumour cells, both those forming walls of capillaries and distributed between capillaries, were similar with respect to their ultrastructure and analogous to the endothelial cells they originated from. Capillaries and cells were "immured" with fibrillary substance which was produced by the tumour cells themselves. In intercellular and intercapillary areas there were also observed fibroblasts and collagenous fibres. Many cells of the tumour underwent necrosis. The cause of destruction of tumour cells resulting in regression of angiomas was fibrosis, the development of which was associated with the activity of the tumour cells themselves and fibroblasts.
Congenital plantar melanocytic nevus with satellite lesions.	We report a case of a congenital melanocytic nevus accompanied by a mucous cyst and satellite pigmented macules on the undersurface of the left great toe in a 17-year-old Japanese man. Myxoid change was confirmed by the discharge of viscous liquid when conducting biopsy of the tumor. Besides such an unusual clinical feature of the tumor, accompanying satellite lesions led us initially to consider the possibility of malignant melanoma. However, a biopsy specimen obtained from the tumor revealed the typical features of intradermal type melanocytic nevus. In a specimen obtained from the satellite pigmented lesion, there was a small mass of nevus cells underneath the basement membrane zone, suggestive of having originated from the spread of nevus cells through lymphatic vessels.
Segmental arrangement of multiple, partly congenital and partly acquired melanocytic nevi.	A 15 year-old girl presented with numerous congenital melanocytic nevi, occasionally hairy, with a segmental distribution at the left pre-auricular region. On the left side of the back of the neck there were multiple melanocytic nevi with a warty appearance, which had started to appear when she was 5 and which had remained stable from the time she was 10. These lesions had a distribution reminiscent of an epidermal nevus with a pattern similar to Blaschko's lines. On general physical examination there was a moderate degree of idiopathic scoliosis, with a left lumbar curvature. Biopsies were taken from both types of nevus which were diagnosed as congenital compound melanocytic nevus and acquired compound melanocytic nevus respectively. We consider that the segmental distribution of the melanocytic nevi of this patient supports the theory that a genetic defect determined the appearance of both these congenital and acquired lesions.
Blue nevus of the scalp associated with a meningeal melanocytoma]	Headache opposite to a blue nevus of the scalp can reveal intra cranial melanotic lesions.
A case of congenital infantile fibrosarcoma of the right hand.	Congenital infantile fibrosarcoma is a rare soft-tissue malignant tumor that usually presents as a mass involving the arm or leg. We report a case of congenital fibrosarcoma on the right hand of a newborn infant. The patient was a 12-day-old male. From the time of delivery, he had a red tumor on his dorsal right hand. The tumor was initially associated with bleeding within a hemangioma and compressed. The course was observed. It appeared that the tumor might be malignant because it increased in size to 10 x 8 x 3 cm, and ulceration and bleeding appeared on the surface after 10 days. A biopsy suggested a fibrosarcoma. The tumor was resected 32 days after birth at the narrow margin in consideration of preservation of function. However, a recurrence was observed under the graft after 2 weeks and another resection was performed. Because the tumor had passed through the interosseous muscle and invaded the palm of the hand, the middle finger, ring finger, and little finger had to be amputated. One year and 7 months postoperatively, no recurrence or metastasis has been observed.
Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans and the Bednar tumor: treatment in the pediatric population.	Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP) is a low-intermediate-grade cutaneous sarcoma that has a marked propensity for local recurrence after excision. The Bednar variant of this tumor is even less common and is distinguished histologically by the dispersal of melanin containing cells in an otherwise typical DFSP. Both are considered to be tumors of the third and forth decades of life, but both DFSP and the Bednar variant have been described in children. Until this report of a congenital Bednar tumor, only the DFSP has also been described in the neonate. The histopathology and surgical management of DFSP and Bednar tumors are outlined with emphasis on reported experience in the pediatric population. The surgical management of these lesions in children is based on numerous series in adults and the limited pediatric experience. The recommended treatment is wide excision with 3-cm margins of visibly uninvolved tissue and inclusion of superficial fascia.
Malignant blue nevus: three new cases and a review of the literature.	Three patients with malignant blue nevus are reported-one on the right side of the body, one on the right arm, and one on the face. The criteria and difficulty of histopathological diagnosis are considered as well as the differential diagnoses for this tumor. The therapy is described, and the possible relations between malignant blue nevus and certain other tumors (e.g., atypical or locally aggressive cellular blue nevus) are explored. A review of the literature reveals that there is current disagreement about the exact prognosis for these tumors and indicates the need to collect data for all patients observed.
Congenital malignant rhabdoid tumor presenting as a cutaneous nodule: report of 2 cases with review of the literature.	The congenital occurrence of malignant rhabdoid tumor (MRT) is rare. Initial presentation of congenital MRT as a skin tumor is even more rare. We report 2 cases in which a cutaneous nodule appeared prior to the discovery of the primary tumor.
