Familial Sneddon's syndrome.	A syndrome associating Livedo Reticularis (LR) with Cerebrovascular disease (CVD) was described, in 1965, by Sneddon. It occurs sporadically, but a few familial cases of Sneddon's Syndrome (SS) have been reported, like these 3 cases that represent one of the largest number among siblings. We studied three male brothers, aged 28, 37 and 42 years, with CVD (ischaemic stroke in 2 patients and cerebral haemorrhages in the third) and their sister with no CVD. All patients presented with long lasting Livedo Reticularis, extending beyond the lower limbs. Skin biopsy on the centre of the reticular pattern showed, only in the second patient, partial endothelium detachment in dermo-hypodermic blood vessels. The males also had accesses of Livedoid Vasculitis (LV), in which a skin biopsy showed obliteration of several upper dermal vessels with hialin thrombi and a very scarce inflammatory infiltrate. Complementary studies, with an extensive investigation on pro-coagulation/pro-thrombotic features including antiphospholipid antibodies, were repeatedly negative. Their non-consanguineous parents were not affected, but among these kindred of 9 individuals, apart from the 4 patients reported above, LR and LV were present in two other brothers and also in an aunt and uncle, suggesting autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, with incomplete penetrance. The relationship between Sneddon's Syndrome and Antiphospholipid Antibody Syndrome is controversial. The present cases, having repeatedly negative antiphospholipid antibodies, support the classification of Sneddon's Syndrome as an independent nosological entity.
Effects of cryogen spray cooling and high radiant exposures on selective vascular injury during laser irradiation of human skin.	Increasing radiant exposure offers a means to increase treatment efficacy during laser-mediated treatment of vascular lesions, such as port-wine stains; however, excessive radiant exposure decreases selective vascular injury due to increased heat generation within the epidermis and collateral damage to perivascular collagen.
Role of laser therapy in dermatology -- clinical aspects.	Laser therapy has become an integral part of therapeutic alternatives in dermatology. Nevertheless, there are only few statistical data on the role of lasers in everyday practice of dermatological clinics.
Optimal parameters for the treatment of leg veins using Nd:YAG lasers at 1064 nm.	The treatment of large vessels such as leg veins is successfully performed in clinical practice using pulsed Nd:YAG lasers. However, it is still unclear how laser parameters such as wavelength, fluence and pulse duration influence vessel destruction in leg veins.
Comparison of cutaneous manifestations in systemic polyarteritis nodosa and microscopic polyangiitis.	The cutaneous manifestations of microscopic polyangiitis (MPA) and polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) have not been compared since their distinction. Objectives To compare the clinical and pathological cutaneous manifestations in a series of patients with systemic MPA and PAN.
Diffuse dermal angiomatosis of the breast: clinical and histopathological features.	Diffuse dermal angiomatosis is an entity in the spectrum of reactive angiomatoses characterized by erythematous plaques that mainly affect the lower extremities of patients with a personal history of peripheral vascular disease. Involvement of the breast is a rare event that has only been described as single cases in women with large breasts.
Macular lymphocytic arteritis: three cases questioning its classification as primary lymphocytic vasculitis.	Macular arteritis, macular lymphocytic arteritis (MLA) or lymphocytic thrombophilic arteritis all correspond to an identical new clinicopathological entity. Its individualization as a primary cutaneous lymphocytic arteritis is still controversial for certain authors as it could represent a latent form of cutaneous polyarteritis nodosa.
Reticulate purpura, cryoglobulinaemia and livedo reticularis.	Two patients with type I cryoglobulinaemia are described, both of whom presented with purpura in a reticulate distribution on the legs, resembling the pattern of physiological livedo. It appeared that increased cooling due to sluggish blood flow in areas of the skin corresponding to the blue areas of physiological livedo may have caused the localization of cryoprecipitate at these sites. To investigate the pathogenesis of the net-like pattern of purpura, three subjects with physiological livedo reticularis of the thighs were studied with a laser-Doppler velocimeter. In two subjects, mean blood flux in the blue areas was 21% (P < 0.01) and 26% (P < 0.02) lower than in adjacent white areas, whereas in the third there was no significant difference. The cutaneous features of cryoglobulinaemia, and the mechanism of the reticulate purpura in this condition, are discussed.
Dermal and intravascular fasciitis. Unusual variants of nodular fasciitis.	Three cases with characteristic features of nodular (pseudosarcomatous) fasciitis arising in the dermis are described. This is only the second report documenting a dermal location for this condition. One of the three cases also showed features of intravascular fasciitis. A fourth case of intravascular fasciitis arising in periocular tissue is included. The differential diagnosis of dermal fasciitis includes benign fibrous histiocytoma, pyogenic granuloma, peripheral nerve tumors, cutaneous smooth muscle tumours, spindle cell carcinoma, spindle cell melanoma, dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans and atypical fibroxanthoma.
