Clinical significance of skin lesions in the diagnosis of gastrointestinal malignancies.	Distinctive syndromes correlating skin manifestations and gastrointestinal malignancies are described. The skin lesions may precede, accompany, or follow the primary disease in the gastrointestinal tract and can be important diagnostic clues. They should alert the physician to the possibility that his patient may have an associated internal cancer.
Sign of Leser-Trélat.	We report a case of squamous cell carcinoma of the lung associated with the sudden appearance of seborrheic keratosis and acquired ichthyosis. We conclude that the sign of Leser-Trélat is a rare cutaneous manifestation of internal malignant disease.
Clinical and histological study of coal tar phototoxicity in humans.	Coal tars of different origin were compared with regard to their capacity to cause a phototoxic reaction in human skin. The photosensitizing potencies were found to differ. Tars that were partially refined had less activity than crude coal tar. An extract of tar, liquor carbonis detergens, was the least photosensitizing. The phototoxic reaction to coal tar was found to be a two-stage process, an immediate wheal associated with sharp burning, followed by a raised, red, infiltrated lesion peaking at 24 to 48 hours. The phototoxic reaction was completely prevented when arterial blood flow was cut off. The histological findings were prominently epidermal, with strong intracellular edema sometimes leading to microvesicles. It seems a possibility that assaying phototoxic potentiality may provide a convenient measure of therapeutic efficacy of materials derived from coal tar.
Bacterial endocarditis: clinical and bacteriological aspects and prognostic factors]	The microbiological, clinical and therapeutic aspects of all (71) cases of bacterial endocarditis admitted to the Hôpital cantonal, Geneva, between August 1970 and October 1974 were reviewed: there was a definite trend towards higher prevalence of acute cases compared to subacute cases. The pathogenic role of S. epidermidis, mostly in cases of prosthetic valve endocarditis, could be demonstrated in several cases. When defined initially by microbiological criteria only, acute endocarditis were characterized by rapid evolution, destruction of the valvular structures (especially aortic valve), and by further evolution under adequate antibiotic therapy: thus, 10/25 patients with acute endocarditis died, whereas the mortality rate in the subacute cases was only 10/46. Many cases in our series showed one or more often frequent embolic phenomena: 70% of the cured cases and 80% of the patients with a fatal outcome. An unfavorable evolution could be correlated with neurologic involvement, cardiac rhythm or conduction disturbances, and/or heart failure; indeed, heart failure due to various mechanisms was the single most frequent cause of death and is presently the main therapeutic problem. Thus, acute infection leading to destruction of the aortic valve and to heart failure still carries a bad prognosis, even if emergency valve replacement is attempted. Finally, 22/30 patients who developed a bacterial endocarditis after oral or urological procedures knew about a heart murmur, but did not receive antibiotic prophylaxis. This clearly shows that emphasis should be put on the elaboration and diffusion of adequate prophylactic regimens.
The swollen limb: cutaneous clues to diagnosis and treatment.	We have reviewed a wide spectrum of disorders producing a swollen limb, some common, others uncommon. Cutaneous signs are often seen in association with these conditions and careful attention to them by the dermatologist may be helpful in determining an accurate diagnosis and appropriate therapy.
The patient with systemic lupus erythematosus.	SLE is an illness of unknown cause(s) affecting multiple organ systems, whose diagnosis depends upon a high index of suspicion and knowledge of its clinical manifestations. The American Rheumatism Association criteria may be used as a guide to help direct one's clinical and laboratory approaches. Survivorship appears to be improving and a wider spectrum of disease is appreciated today.
A cutaneous marker in the Hunter syndrome a report of four cases.	A report of four patients and review of the literature suggest that a cutaneous marker exists for the Hunter syndrome. All previously described patients with this eruption have been males with clear corneas. The distinctive lesions consist of firm ivory-white papules and nodules that may coalesce to form ridges or a reticular pattern. The papules are usually seen in symmetrical areas between the angles of the scapulas and posterior axillary lines, the pectoral regions, the nape of the neck and/or on the lateral aspects of the upper arms and thighs. These lesions are seen in both allelic forms and cannot be used to separate a benign from a rapid course.
Skin changes in short-bowel syndrome. Kwashiorkor-like syndrome.	An infant with short-bowel syndrome developed flexural desquamation and "enamel paint" skin in pressure-bearing areas. Hyperalimentation with amino acid and lipid solution was unsuccessful in correcting the malnutrition and skin changes.
Skin lesions in paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria.	Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH) is an uncommon hemolytic anemia that rarely manifests skin lesions. Leg ulcers and purpura similar to the manifestation of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP); disseminated intravascular coagulation, and Henoch-Schönlein purpura do occur. This is the second known case report of PNH with histopathologic features of TTP. Clinically, our patient's condition resembled TTP with disseminated intravascular platelet aggregation, and she followed a nonfulminant course. She improved on a regimen of systemic steroids, dipyridamole, and cessation of antibiotics.
Leukocytic hypersensitivity in experimental group A streptococcal infections.	Skin hypersensitivity to streptococcal antigens was demonstrated in 15 New Zealand red rabbits that were sensitized by intracutaneous injections with group A streptococci, and leukocytic hypersensitivity, as determined by in vitro inhibition of leukocyte migration, was demonstrated in 11 of the rabbits. The skin hypersensitivity persisted for at least 8 weeks, whereas the leukocytic hypersensitivity generally waned rather rapidly. The leukocytic hypersensitivity reappeared in the infected rabbits that had developed this hypersensitivity. However, it did not reappear on reimmunization with living streptococci of the type originally employed, whereas it did reappear with living but not heat-killed streptococci of another M type.
Skin symptom in different localizations of cancer in the breast]	The relationship of malignant tumors with the subcutaneous fat and skin is dependent on the stage of the disease, localization and tumor structure. Positive skin symptom at the first stage was found in 54% of patients, at the second stage--78% and at the third stage--in 97,7% of patients.
Human cyclic neutropenia: clinical review and long-term follow-up of patients.	Human cyclic neutropenia is a distinctive disorder of unknown cause characterized by regularly recurrent episodes of profound neutropenia, which have a periodicity of about 3 weeks. This periodicity remains constant and is remarkably consistent among patients. Although blood elements other than neutrophils are nt depleted, essentially all patients experience a cycling of monocyte counts with monocyte cycles of the same length as but reciprocal to neutrophil cycles. Cycling of platelet and reticulocyte numbers also may occur. Patients experience a clinical syndrome of recurrent illness characterized by malaise, fever, aphthous stomatitis, and cervical adenopathy. Incidental infections may occur with neutropenia but respond readily to antibiotics. The clinical course is benign compared with others conditions in which similar degrees of neutropenia occur. The only life-threatening complication encountered during long-term follow-up of patients was the occurrence of spontaneous peritonitis, segmental bowel necrosis, and septicemia which required surgical intervention. Most patients develop the disease in childhood, but a significant number of patients develop the disease in adulthood as an apparently acquired condition. The disease occurs equally in both sexes and is familial in some. Studies of marrow morphology, myelopoiesis, and neotrophil kinetics have shown that cyclic neutropenia is primarily a disease of abnormally regulated neutrophil production. The judicious use of antibiotics, careful oral and dental care, and patient education are the mainstays of management. Alternate-day corticosteroids have been used successfully to abate the recurrent signs and symptoms, and in one patient the disease was gradually corrected by alternate day prednisolone. Human cyclic neutropenia is of special investigative interest because clarification of this disease may contribute greatly to an understanding of the normal control of myelopoiesis.
Porphyria variegata: a study of a large family (author's transl)]	Porphyria variegata (or South-African porphyria) is not a rare disease in Europe. Its transmission, in a Walloon family, is described. The pedigree extends over 7 generations and comprises 184 individuals. It was possible to carry out biological studies on 100 family members. The results of the analyses are presented and discussed. The levels of fecal porphyrines, the presence of cutaneous lesions and the genealogical relationships permitted the establishment of a coherent picture. Three other families suffering from the same disease are briefly reported. A systematic search for carriers of the gene is indispensable in porphyrias. All identified carriers must be warned of the risks they run and must be supplied with a list of medicaments to be avoided. The prevention of cutaneous lesions by beta-carotene is envisaged.
Dermatologic aspects of arsenic poisoning caused by drinking water]	The dermal aspects of an accumulated familiar arsenical late-intoxication -- caused by drinking-water -- are described. We have to expect similar cases to this one even today. At the appearance of multiple M. Bowencentres we have to consider in addition to inner-organic carcinoma, the possibility of an arsenical intoxication as well.
Idiopathic hemochromatosis in a young female. A case study and review of the syndrome in young people.	Idiopathic hemochromatosis (iH) is typically a disease of older males. The case presented here describes a 26-yr-old woman with problems presenting heart failure, insulin-dependent diabetes, hepatomegaly, and secondary amenorrhea. The diagnosis was established by serum iron and transferrin saturation measurements, liver biopsy, and bone marrow examination for iron. Twenty grams of iron were removed by phlebotomy over 30 mo, and the patient's symptoms improved. A review of the literature pertinent to people with symptomatic onset of IH before age 30 yr revealed 52 young people in addition to this case. In contrast to IH patients older than 30, there was an almost equal ratio between the sexes, a greater frequency of cardiomyopathy and hypogonadism, and a lower frequency of diabetes mellitus and hepatic involvement. An autosomal recessive mode of inheritance appears to be most likely in this young group.
Osler node, Janeway lesions, and splinter hemorrhages.	This report documents the occurrence of an Osler node, subungual hemorrhages, and Janeway lesions peripheral to an infected arterial catheter. A brief review of these dermatological manifestations of infection is given and the importance of surgical removal of the involved artery after poor response to medical therapy is stressed.
Normal lymphocyte transfer reaction in humans and its possible mechanism.	This study illustrates the development of the skin reaction in human recipients to injected allogeneic lymphocytes from two aspects: the capacity of lymphocytes to elicit the reaction, and the ability of the recipient to react. The reaction is expressed by local skin induration and is biphasic. The first phase seems to be a hostgraft reaction; the second may require proliferation of graft cells as well as the reaction of host cells. Circulating fetal lymphocytes collected from a 12-week human embryo caused no reaction in an adult recipient; those from a 15-week embryo usually caused the first phase, with little or no second phase reaction, while those from 22- and 30-week fetuses and from a mature infant caused a normal, biphasic reaction. So, usually, did 22-week splenic lymphocytes, but fetal thymic lymphocytes usually provoked no reaction in adults. In premature infants given adult cells either both phases or the second were reduced; in normal infants the second response may be reduced but after six years of age the reaction is like that seen in adults.
Panniculitis of the legs with urate crystal deposition.	Dark red nodules that drained an opaque amber liquid developed on the extensor surfaces of both legs in a 69-year-old woman receiving furosemide and spironolactone for congestive heart failure. In addition to asymptomatic cholelithiasis, the serum amylase, lipase, and uric acid levels were elevated. Other skin signs and joint manifestations of gout were absent. A biopsy revealed a granuloma with the needle-like crystals characteristic of gout.
Behcet's syndrome with neurologic involvement. Report of a case in a pregnant women]	A case of Behcet's disease in a pregnant patient is reported. The patient showed central nervous system involvement as well eyes, mouth, external genitalia and skin lesions. The neurological signs were cranial nerves palsies and pyramidal tract involvement. The cerebrospinal fluid showed hypercytosis and hyper-gammaglobulin. The patient was treated with sistemic dexamethasone and eye drops of atropine and fluorometolone. The delivery was by elective cesarean section at 8th and a half month of pregnancy. In the examination of 6 month-old the infant was normal. The patient improved but remained with important visual loss. The authors think that the pregnancy helped the partial recovery and the good evolution; similar cases have been reported in the literature. A rapid review about the central nervous system involvement and treatment of Behçet's disease is made.
Diagnostic and therapeutic problems associated with hereditary deficiency of the C1 esterase inhibitor.	Six patients in a family with a history of hereditary angioedema reported swelling of the extremities and recurrent abdominal pain occurring spontaneously or after trauma. Attacks of oedema involving the airways, the greatest danger with this disorder, were present only in one case. This autosomal dominant disease is due to deficient activity of the inhibitor of the first component of complement. Low levels of C4, and absence of C1 esterase inhibitor confirm the diagnosis. Two asymptomatic cases with the appropriate biochemical abnormality are reported in this study. For short term prophylaxis of attacks (before surgery expecially), fresh frozen plasma is used, or better still, C1 esterase inhibitor. For long term prophylaxis of attacks antifibrinolytic and hormonal drugs are used: in two cases, the authors obtained good results with methyltestosterone after failure of tranexamic acid.
