Central venous catheter site care for blood and marrow transplant recipients.	Treatment-induced neutropenia, long central venous catheter (CVC) dwell times, and the use of immunosuppressive agents place blood and marrow transplant recipients at high risk for CVC infection. The most common causative organisms of CVC infection are ubiquitous skin flora of hospitalized patients. A great deal of research on CVC care, including dressing change procedures and frequency, has been conducted; however, variations in study design, patients studied, and terminology used to define CVC infection limit the generalizability of the findings. This article reviews significant studies of CVC care and infection rates and describes the findings of a survey of CVC care practices of Blood and Marrow Stem Cell Transplant Special Interest Group members of the Oncology Nursing Society.
The nursing care of a patient with enterocutaneous faecal fistulae.	This article discusses the nursing care given to a patient with a large abdominal, enterocutaneous faecal fistula. It highlights classification, signs, symptoms and some causal factors related to fistulas. Fistulas are rare and there is minimal evidence-based knowledge on the subject. However, incorporating knowledge from other specialties, such as tissue viability, can assist in caring for this client group. Diagrams illustrate the extent of the problems and assist with understanding the appliance techniques. There are many problems that may be encountered in the care of fistulas that are not encountered with planned stomas. Difficulties may include containment of the faecal matter within a wound, problems associated with skin care, leakage and dietary issues. The author's methods of confronting and coping with these problems in this case study are discussed, with the aim of assisting other nurses in similar situations.
The role of the expert witness.	Juries do not have extensive health-care knowledge, so expert witnesses are needed to explain standards of care. Here, expert witness Sylvie Hampton describes this role and how these witnesses participate in court proceedings.
Directions for future nursing research on fecal incontinence.	As knowledge of the prevalence and impact of fecal incontinence increases, additional research is needed to improve patient outcomes and support the practice of nurses in this area.
A study of core interventions in home nursing.	To gain insight into the core interventions in home nursing.
Using a health promotion model to promote benchmarking.	The North East (England) Neonatal Benchmarking Group has been established for almost a decade and has researched and developed a substantial number of evidence-based benchmarks. With no firm evidence that these were being used or that there was any standardisation of neonatal care throughout the region, the group embarked on a programme to review the benchmarks and determine what evidence-based guidelines were needed to support standardisation. A health promotion planning model was used by one subgroup to structure the programme; it enabled all members of the sub group to engage in the review process and provided the motivation and supporting documentation for implementation of changes in practice. The need for a regional guideline development group to complement the activity of the benchmarking group is being addressed.
Assessment and management of patients with surgical cavity wounds.	This article explores the management of surgical cavity wounds. The effectiveness of healing depends on wound assessment and constant re-evaluation of the management strategy adopted. Management strategies should be holistic and take into account the wound bed and local and systemic barriers to healing, as well as patients' thoughts and concerns about their wound. Nurses have a pivotal role in wound management and dressing selection, and should aim to keep up to date in this dynamic specialty.
Two-layer compression hosiery for patients with venous leg ulceration.	Patients may experience a recurrence of leg ulceration if they do not wear prescribed compression hosiery when ulcers have healed. This article examines the use of compression hosiery kits, which can be used for the treatment of active ulceration as well as prevention of recurrence. For some patients, the stockings may be easier to apply than traditional compression hosiery, thereby enabling them to benefit from continued wear.
A systematic review of topical skin care in aged care facilities.	This systematic review aimed to evaluate the best available evidence regarding the effectiveness of topical skin care interventions for residents of aged care facilities.
Lymphedema and implications for oncology nursing practice.	Lymphedema (LE) is described as chronic swelling caused by impairment in lymphatic system drainage. The cause of LE is either primary or secondary (Holcomb, 2006). The experience can be disturbing. Patients and healthcare providers often overlook the initial presentation because of subtle changes. With a basic understanding of LE, oncology nurses can monitor for the presence, educate about preventive measures, and assist in treatment of LE.
Looking at laryngeal cancer.	Learn how to support your patient through the physical and emotional challenges of diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation.
Whose wound is it anyway? Issues relating to wound photography.	In this digital age it is easy to obtain images of wounds without permission from the owner or patient. A debate is needed to clarify who rightfully owns clinical images and the implications for patient consent of using them in different media.
The skin of the premature newborn under the nurse's evaluation: orientating the manteinance of cutaneous integrity]	The prematurity expressed relevance to the health neonatal, demonstrating ascending compromising regarding morbi-mortality of this patients, whose larger incidence can be attributed to the inadequate practices with the skin of the premature. Revision of the literature about the beneficial interaction among the skin of premature infant newborn and the appropriate handling, orientated by the nurse, that through the standardization of the cares of direct interference and continuous evaluation of the cutaneous integrity and attending the premature. It publishes the importance of the care with the skin of the premature newborn, not just making possible the survival, but the opportunity to integrate and to enjoy of the life with quality.
A case study, calciphylaxis: an exercise in human caring.	Caring for a patient with calciphylaxis is challenging emotionally and clinically. The case of a young woman with the disease is related.
Itch: association with chronic venous disease, pain, and quality of life.	The purpose of the study was to examine the symptom of itch and its relationship with chronic venous disease, pain, and quality of life.
Social connectivity in those 24 months or less postsurgery.	This purpose of this study is to characterize the prevalence of social isolation and determine the impact of influencing factors in a sample of adults with ostomies.
Adapting pressure ulcer prevention for use in home health care.	Clinical practice guidelines on pressure ulcer (PU)prevention have been written primarily for inpatient settings,but we currently lack data as to how these guidelines have been adapted for use in home health care. The purpose of this study was to delineate interventions and activities used to prevent PU in home health care.
The contribution of the nursing service worldwide and its capacity to benefit within the dermatology field.	The nursing service is a significant element in the dermatological capacity to respond to skin care and dermatological needs worldwide. Although it is an area of development often neglected by dermatologists, it is one that is undergoing rapid and substantial evolution. This paper outlines the initiatives undertaken by nurses to enhance their contribution, and examines the development of nursing within the dermatology field. It argues for the need to develop a service delivery model in dermatology care that utilizes specialist-nursing expertise to cascade dermatological knowledge and skill through primary care. The paper summarizes the strategic importance of nursing in dermatology care delivery, whether in resource-rich or -poor countries, and its unmet potential in the capacity to benefit and meet skin care and dermatological care needs. The paper specifically focuses on the development work led by the International Skin Care Nursing Group (ISNG) to stimulate and develop the capacity of nursing to respond to these widespread needs through promoting service delivery models that operate interdependently with dermatologist-led care.
Direct procurement of wound management products.	This article describes a collaborative project between Bedfordshire Community Health Services and Primary Care Trusts/Clinical Commissioning Groups to improve provision of dressings to nurses for the patients they treat. Commissioners have facilitated a transformational approach and encouraged development of efficient systems of increased cost-effectiveness rather than a transactional approach based on opportunistic cost improvement plans. Reconfiguration to direct procurement from GP prescribing has reduced wastage, released nurse time from processes to spend on clinical contact time with patients, increased efficiency, and reduced prescription workload for GPs, all without adverse effects on expenditure. Establishing a wound care products formulary placed control under the nurses treating patients and facilitated decision-making based on cost-effectiveness in clinical use. Nurses now manage 60% of expenditure in the local community health economy, and this is increasing. Relationships with the dressings manufacturing industry have also changed in a positive, constructive direction. 
Principles of preventative foot care.	The lower extremities of the body, particularly the heel and ankle, are at risk of ulceration, skin tears and other forms of trauma. This is especially so in today's health-care environment, where society is faced with the challenges of an ageing population, alongside an increased incidence of diabetes, vascular insufficiency, obesity and dermatological conditions, all of which pose both clinical and economic challenges to health-care providers. Once established, damage to the foot can have a detrimental impact on the patient's overall wellbeing, often over extended periods of time, with some patients spending many years within the health-care system. Advanced wound care products tend to have a strong focus upon management of tissue damage, infection, maceration and the promotion of an optimum environment to facilitate the healing process. This clinician-patient collaboration product review challenges traditional ideals and explores the impact of using an adherent soft silicone foam dressing in maintaining skin integrity and preventing tissue damage in those high-risk patient groups. 
The role of the wound care nurse: an integrative review.	The role of the wound care nurse has developed to meet the need for expert wound care advice. Internationally, the role has developed with a variety of different titles. Although all positions have some common tasks and obligations, there remain gaps in knowledge around the role of the wound care nurse. This article aims to determine the state of knowledge in relation to the context of practice, scope of practice and impact of the wound care nurse. An integrative review design was used to allow a broad search strategy and to gather papers from a variety of sources. A multi-method search strategy of the literature published between 1980-2011 was undertaken. This included 5 electronic databases, a thesis search and manual search. It was found that the characteristics of the patients wound care nurses care for reflect an ageing population and disease processes, including diabetes and obesity. Internationally, there is little consensus on the level of competence, educational requirements and qualifications required to practise as a wound care nurse. There was some evidence that the wound care nurse improved healing times and decreased pressure injury prevalence. 
An evaluation of KerraMax Care in the management of moderate to heavily exuding wounds.	Highly exuding wounds are common and can result in malodour, pain, maceration, infection and unsightly soiled dressings, as well as having a negative impact on an individual's quality of life. This communication reports on the findings from an evaluation by nurses regarding the clinical effectiveness and safety of superabsorbent dressing KerraMax Care and the patient experience of KerraMax Care in the management of moderate to highly exuding wounds. A total of 54 evaluations were completed. Nurses commented on the main benefits seen clinically with KerraMax Care as being reduced maceration, exudate managed and improved wound appearance. Other changes observed in wound appearance noted were visible granulation tissue and reduced pain. The evaluation demonstrates the positive impact that good dressing selection can have on the lives of patients, improving their wound-care experience and outcome. 
