Toward a canine model of atopic dermatitis: amplification of cytokine-gene transcripts in the skin of atopic dogs.	The objectives of the present study were to characterize and compare the repertoire of cytokine-genes transcribed in skin homogenates obtained from normal dogs and dogs with atopic dermatitis (AD) using a reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction and canine-specific cytokine-gene primers. Whereas IL-4 and IL-5 cytokine-gene transcripts were detected more commonly in atopic skin biopsy homogenates, IL-2 mRNA was amplified more often from normal control specimens. IFN-gamma mRNA was detected in 5/29 atopic specimens, 4 of them obtained from the only dog with chronic skin lesions. One-fourth of atopic samples exhibited clear type-2 cytokine profiles; the remainder did not demonstrate polarized repertoires. Conversely, type-1 cytokine profiles were characterized in one-fourth of normal control specimens. The present study establishes, for the first time, the transcription of type-2 cytokine-genes in the skin of dogs with AD. Future experiments investigating the cellular origin and dynamics of allergic cytokine-gene transcription are needed to confirm whether or not canine AD could be considered an immunological model for a human disease.
p53 induction in normal human skin in vitro following exposure to solar simulated UV and UV-B irradiation.	Exposure of normal human breast skin ex vivo to physiological levels of UV-B and solar simulated UV results in a UV dose- and time-dependent increase in epidermal p53, as determined by PAGE analysis. Peak p53 levels are detected 12 to 24 h post irradiation with UV-B (470-1410 mJ cm-2) and solar simulated UV (5-12 minimal erythema dose (MED) equivalents). Irradiation with an FS20 UV-B lamp, contaminated with UV-A and UV-C (74-1111 mJ cm-2), also induces peak levels after 12 h incubation at 37 degrees C but these levels persist to 36 h post UV irradiation. In all cases p53 levels start to return to normal by 48 h culture. A significant positive correlation is demonstrated between UV-B dose (47-1645 mJ cm-2) and p53 level (p < 0.01, R > 0.977) in explants cultured for 24 h at 37 degrees C post irradiation. The FS20 induces a 'UV-B' dose-dependent increase in p53 to a maximum from 370 to 1111 mJ cm-2. Similarly, solar simulated UV induces a plateau of peak p53 induction between 5 and 15 MED equivalents. Immunohistochemical analysis using microwave retrieval on 5 microns sections shows the same pattern of p53 staining with UV-B and solar UV insult, but proves unreliable as a method of quantification. These results suggest that the skin explant model may be a useful tool in the evaluation of UV-induced epidermal cell damage, providing a valuable alternative to in vivo studies.
Lipid profile in actinic keratosis and basal cell carcinoma.	The lipid content of the skin and its changes are important in the pathogenesis of many disorders affecting the skin, particularly actinic keratosis (AK) and basal cell carcinoma (BCC).
Effect of concentration and degree of saturation of topical fluocinonide formulations on in vitro membrane transport and in vivo availability on human skin.	The thermodynamic activity of drugs in topical vehicles is considered to significantly influence topical delivery. In vitro diffusion across a synthetic membrane was shown to be correlated to the degree of saturation of the drug in the applied vehicle and therefore offers a potential for increased topical drug delivery. Fluocinonide a topical corticosteroid, was chosen as a model compound to investigate in vitro and in vivo availability from formulations with different degrees of saturation.
Human beta-defensin-2.	Human beta-defensin-2 (HBD-2) is a cysteine-rich cationic low molecular weight antimicrobial peptide recently discovered in psoriatic lesional skin. It is produced by a number of epithelial cells and exhibits potent antimicrobial activity against Gram-negative bacteria and Candida, but not Gram-positive Staphylococcus aureus. HBD-2 represents the first human defensin that is produced following stimulation of epithelial cells by contact with microorganisms such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa or cytokines such as TNF-alpha and IL-1 beta. The HBD-2 gene and protein are locally expressed in keratinocytes associated with inflammatory skin lesions such as psoriasis as well as in the infected lung epithelia of patients with cystic fibrosis. It is intriguing to speculate that HBD-2 is a dynamic component of the local epithelial defense system of the skin and respiratory tract having a role to protect surfaces from infection, and providing a possible reason why skin and lung infections with Gram-negative bacteria are rather rare.
Prediction of the dermal penetration of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs): a hierarchical QSAR approach.	Attempts were made to develop hierarchical quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) models for the dermal penetration of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) using four classes of theoretical structural parameters; viz., topostructural, topochemical, geometric, and quantum chemical descriptors; and physicochemical properties such as molecular weight (MW) and lipophilicity (log P--octanol/water). The results show that topostructural, topochemical, and geometric descriptors and molecular weight are equally effective in predicting the dermal penetration of PAHs. Quantum chemical parameters did not make any improvements in the predictive power of the QSAR models.
Influence of enzyme distribution and diffusion on permeation profile of prodrug through viable skin: theoretical aspects for several steady-state fluxes in two transport directions.	A physical modeling and theoretical simulation aspect for the simultaneous transport and metabolism of prodrug in viable skin were described to understand the influence of enzyme distribution and diffusion. The physical model was formulated assuming that the viable epidermis and dermis have distinct diffusional and metabolic characteristics and that the metabolic reaction in each layer follows a first-order kinetics. The differential equations were analytically solved, and the steady-state flux of prodrug into receiver and that of metabolite into receiver and donor and the total flux in forward (epidermis to dermis) and backward (dermis to epidermis) directions were derived. The flux of prodrug in the forward direction always equals that in the backward direction. The metabolite flux into receiver became transport direction-dependent when the diffusional characteristic of epidermis was different from that of dermis regardless of enzyme distribution. The metabolite flux into donor in the backward direction relative to that in the forward direction increased with increase of dermis/epidermis ratio of any parameters among metabolic rate constant, partition coefficient and diffusion coefficient of prodrug and metabolite. The difference of total flux between the 2 transport directions was caused by the difference in metabolic rate constant, partition coefficient and diffusion coefficient of prodrug between epidermis and dermis. The higher any parameters were for dermis, the higher was total flux in the backward direction.
Cyclic monoterpene extract from cardamom oil as a skin permeation enhancer for indomethacin: in vitro and in vivo studies.	The in vitro and in vivo effect of pretreatment by cardamom oil, a crude drug extract, in ethanol/water vehicles on the transdermal delivery of indomethacin was investigated. The cyclic monoterpene components in cardamom oil were also determined and quantified in this study. The permeation of indomethacin was significantly enhanced after pretreatment of cardamom oil both in the in vitro and in vivo studies. The result of various pre-treatment periods showed that the indomethacin flux decreased as the length of the pretreatment increased. Both natural cardamom oil and a cyclic monoterpene mixture composed of the components of the oil showed similar enhancement on indomethacin permeation, indicating cyclic monoterpenes are the predominant components altering the barrier property of stratum corneum. The results also showed that three minor components in cardamom oil (alpha-pinene, 6.5%; beta-pinene, 4.8%; alpha-terpineol, 0.4%) had a synergistic effect with 1,8-cineole (59.3%) and d-limonene (29.0%) to enhance the permeation of indomethacin.
An agouti mutation lacking the basic domain induces yellow pigmentation but not obesity in transgenic mice.	Chronic antagonism of melanocortin receptors by the paracrine-acting agouti gene product induces both yellow fur and a maturity-onset obesity syndrome in mice that ubiquitously express wild-type agouti. Functional analysis of agouti mutations in transgenic mice indicate that the cysteine-rich C terminus, signal peptide, and glycosylation site are required for agouti activity in vivo. In contrast, no biological activity has been ascribed to the conserved basic domain. To examine the functional significance of the agouti basic domain, the entire 29-aa region was deleted from the agouti cDNA, and the resulting mutation (agoutiDeltabasic) was expressed in transgenic mice under the control of the beta-actin promoter (BAPaDeltabasic). Three independent lines of BAPaDeltabasic transgenic mice all developed some degree of yellow pigment in the fur, indicating that the agoutiDeltabasic protein was functional in vivo. However, none of the BAPaDeltabasic transgenic mice developed completely yellow fur, obesity, hyperinsulinemia, or hyperglycemia. High levels of agoutiDeltabasic expression in relevant tissues exceeded the level of agouti expression in obese viable yellow mice, suggesting that suboptimal activity or synthesis of the agoutiDeltabasic protein, rather than insufficient RNA synthesis, accounts for the phenotype of the BAPaDeltabasic transgenic mice. These findings implicate a functional role for the agouti basic domain in vivo, possibly influencing the biogenesis of secreted agouti protein or modulating protein-protein interactions that contribute to effective antagonism of melanocortin receptors.
Differential expression of tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMP-1, -2, -3, and -4) in normal and aberrant wound healing.	Wound healing is characterized by hemostasis, re-epithelialization, granulation tissue formation, and remodeling of the extracellular matrix. Matrix metalloproteinases and their specific inhibitors, TIMPs, contribute to these events. We investigated a total of 47 samples of normally healing wounds, chronic venous ulcers, ulcerative vasculitis, and suction blisters using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization, to clarify the role of TIMPs in normal and aberrant wound repair. Expression of TIMP-1 and -3 mRNAs was found in proliferating keratinocytes in 3- to 5-day-old normally healing wounds, whereas no epidermal expression was detected in chronic ulcers. However, TIMP-3 protein was found in the proliferating epidermis in 20 of 24 samples representing both full-thickness acute and chronic wounds. TIMP-1 and TIMP-3 also were abundantly expressed by spindle-shaped, fibroblast-like, and plump, macrophage-like stromal cells, as well as by endothelial cells. In normally healing wounds, TIMP-2 protein localized under the migrating epithelial tip and to the stromal tissue under the eschar more frequently than in chronic ulcers. Occasional staining for TIMP-4 protein was detected in stromal cells of chronic ulcers near blood vessels. Our results indicate that TIMP-1 and TIMP-3 may be involved both in the regeneration of the epidermis by stabilizing the basement membrane zone and in the regulation of stromal remodeling and angiogenesis of the wound bed. Lack of TIMP-2 near the migrating epithelial wound edges might contribute to uncontrolled activity of MMP-2 in chronic ulcers. We conclude also that TIMPs are temporally and spatially tightly regulated and that the imbalance between metalloproteinases and TIMPs-1, -2, and -3 may lead to delayed wound healing.
Selective regulation of trkC expression by NT3 in the developing peripheral nervous system.	We have studied the influence of neurotrophin-3 (NT3) on the expression of its receptor tyrosine kinase, trkC, in embryonic mice. The expression of trkC transcripts encoding full-length and kinase-deficient receptors was almost entirely restricted to neurons in the trigeminal ganglion and increased markedly throughout development. In NT3(+/-) embryos, the level of trkC mRNA in the trigeminal ganglion was much lower than that in wild-type embryos, although there was no significant reduction in the total number of neurons in the ganglion. This demonstrates that endogenous NT3 regulates trkC expression in trigeminal neurons independently of changes in population size. In NT3(-/-) embryos, the number of neurons in the trigeminal ganglion was much lower than in wild-type embryos, and there was a further reduction in the mean neuronal level of trkC mRNA. Direct regulation of trkC mRNA expression in cultured trigeminal neurons was also observed, although the finding that trkC mRNA levels were sustained better in explant cultures than in dissociated cultures irrespective of the presence of NT3 suggests that trkC mRNA expression is regulated by additional factors within the ganglion. In contrast to trigeminal neurons, the level of trkC mRNA was sustained at normal levels in neurons of the sympathetic chain of NT3(-/-) embryos and was not increased by NT3 in sympathetic neuron cultures. TrkC mRNA expression in developing cutaneous tissues was also unaffected by the NT3 null mutation. In summary, our findings provide the first clear evidence that the expression of a trk receptor, tyrosine kinase, is regulated by physiological levels of its ligand in vivo and show that regulation by NT3 is cell type-specific.
The role of the pancreas in intestinal zinc secretion in metallothionein-null mice.	The distribution and excretion of endogenous Zn, including the role of the pancreas, were examined in fasted MT+/+ and MT-/- mice. At 3 and 6 h after receiving 65Zn tracer by subcutaneous injection, 65Zn levels were compared in tissues of MT+/+ and MT-/- mice. 65Zn levels were significantly higher in the liver and pancreas of the MT+/+ mice, whereas in the MT-/- mice, 65Zn levels were significantly higher in muscle, skin, and most of the gastrointestinal tract other than the stomach and upper small intestine. In MT-/- mice, 3% of the injected 65Zn was recovered in the luminal contents of the small intestine over 3-6 h, compared with <1.5% in the MT+/+ mice. A loading dose of Zn (150 microg, s.c.) sufficient to raise the plasma Zn concentration by fourfold to fivefold in both MT+/+ and MT-/- mice resulted in similar increases in pancreatic Zn levels in each genotype, although more Zn appeared in the lower small intestine of MT-/- mice. Pancreatectomy decreased the level of 65Zn in the small intestine of MT-/- but not MT+/+ mice. Longer-term studies over 4 days demonstrated few differences in tissue 65Zn between MT+/+ and MT-/- mice, with the exception of the pancreas, where 65Zn retention after fasting in MT-/- mice was half that of MT+/+ mice. MT-/- mice also had significantly lower Zn concentrations in the pancreas. Fecal excretion of 65Zn in MT-/- mice was greater than that of MT+/+ mice in the first 24 h (24.7 vs. 18.2% of injected dose; p < 0.05). Besides metallothionein (MT), there were no significant differences in the molecular weight distribution of Zn binding ligands in the lumen of the small intestine between MT+/+ and MT-/- mice. Mice lacking MT I and II lose more endogenous Zn into the gut because of a relative failure of the pancreas to retain Zn. However, increased Zn secretion via the small intestinal mucosa may also contribute to intestinal Zn loss in MT-/- mice.
Degenerative processes of elastic fibers in sun-protected and sun-exposed skin: immunoelectron microscopic observation of elastin, fibrillin-1, amyloid P component, lysozyme and alpha1-antitrypsin.	Degenerative processes of elastic fibers in sun-protected and sun-exposed skin were analyzed by light and electron microscopic (post-embedding) immunocytochemistry using antisera to elastin, fibrillin-1, amyloid P component, lysozyme and alpha1-antitrypsin. To assess the effect of aging and sun exposure, biopsy specimens of sun-protected skin (back) and severely and moderately sun-exposed skin (face and forearms) were obtained from a young age group (1-27 years), an adult group (31-56 years) and an old aged group (61-100 years). Elastin and fibrillin-1 were the essential components of elastic fibers; elastin being localized in the electron-lucent matrix and fibrillin-1 in the dense microfibrillar strands. Aging and sun exposure provoked degenerative condensed spots, which represented widened dense microfibrillar strands, in the matrix of altered elastic fibers in the reticular dermis. Amyloid P component was first deposited on the peripheral microfibrils, and then in the intermediate density zone of the spots. Lysozyme was observed in both the electron-dense core and in the intermediate density zone of the spots. Deposition of lysozyme correlated with basophilic degeneration of the elastic fibers. In the severely photodamaged facial skin of the aged, which showed solar elastosis in the upper reticular dermis, fibrillin-1 immunoreactivity was lost from the thickened and vacuolated elastic fibers that lacked condensed spots, and amyloid P component, lysozyme and alpha1-antitrypsin were diffusely deposited in the elastin-positive matrix. It seemed that amyloid P component deposition on the elastic fibers was closely associated with aging, while immunoreactive lysozyme was related to sun exposure. Vertically oriented, thin, elastic (oxytalan) fibers in the papillary dermis tended to decrease with age, with frequent deposition of amyloid P component but no lysozyme. In the facial skin of the aged, dermal papillae disappeared, with the formation of degenerative elastic globules beneath the dermal-epidermal junction. The present study demonstrated an intimate relationship between ultrastructural alterations and deposition of exogenous substances on the degenerative elastic fibers in sun-exposed and/or aged skin.
Interleukin-12 cDNA skin transfection potentiates human papillomavirus E6 DNA vaccine-induced antitumor immune response.	Human papillomaviruses are associated with >90% of all cases of uterine cervical tumors. The E6 and E7 oncoproteins of human papillomavirus are potentially ideal targets of immune therapy for cervical cancer, because their expression is necessary for cellular transformation. Although both E6 and E7 proteins contain numerous predicted cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) epitopes that are capable of binding to human leukocyte antigens, the majority of earlier in vivo tumor rejection studies have focused on E7. We show here that gene gun-mediated skin transfection of plasmid vector encoding the nontransforming, amino-terminal half of E6 resulted in the induction of E6-specific CTL activity and tumor rejection in a murine model. The use of recombinant murine interleukin-12 (rmIL-12) as a vaccine adjuvant has been shown to result in both an enhancement and suppression of immune responses, depending upon the doses of rmIL-12 and the experimental systems used. We demonstrate here that local expression of transgenic mIL-12 at the E6 DNA vaccination site potentiated E6-specific CTL responses and increased vaccine-induced antitumor therapeutic efficacy. Our results indicate that transfection of the mIL-12 gene at the vaccination site may represent an attractive adjuvant for cancer gene immunotherapy.
Characterization of EHD4, an EH domain-containing protein expressed in the extracellular matrix.	To identify proteins that promote assembly of type VI collagen tetramers or stabilize type VI collagen filaments, a two-hybrid screen of a human placenta library was used and a new extracellular protein discovered. The cDNA sequence of the new protein encodes 541 amino acid residues. This cDNA sequence is identical to EHD4, a recently described member of the EH domain family of proteins. Two mRNAs of 4.4 and 3.0 kilobases were present in human skin fibroblasts and most tissues tested but were most prevalent in the heart. The chromosomal localization of the gene for this new protein was determined to be at 15q14-q15. Three polyclonal peptide antibodies were made against synthetic EHD4 peptides. The affinity-purified antibodies were used in immunofluorescent staining of developing limbs and matrices produced by human skin fibroblasts and mouse NIH3T3 fibroblasts in culture. Embryonic rat limb cartilage was strongly stained throughout development, and cultured fibroblasts deposited an extracellular filamentous network containing EHD4. In non-denaturing extracts of fetal bovine cartilage and in human skin fibroblast culture media, two components of approximately 220 and 158 kDa were observed, which, after reduction, migrated as a 56-kDa component on SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. EHD4 is the first extracellular matrix protein described that contains an EH domain.
Indications for a 'brain-hair follicle axis (BHA)': inhibition of keratinocyte proliferation and up-regulation of keratinocyte apoptosis in telogen hair follicles by stress and substance P.	It has long been suspected that stress can cause hair loss, although convincing evidence of this has been unavailable. Here, we show that in mice sonic stress significantly increased the number of hair follicles containing apoptotic cells and inhibited intrafollicular keratinocyte proliferation in situ. Sonic stress also significantly increased the number of activated perifollicular macrophage clusters and the number of degranulated mast cells, whereas it down-regulated the number of intraepithelial gd T lymphocytes. These stress-induced immune changes could be mimicked by injection of the neuropeptide substance P in nonstressed mice and were abrogated by a selective substance P receptor antagonist in stressed mice. We conclude that stress can indeed inhibit hair growth in vivo, probably via a substance P-dependent activation of macrophages and/or mast cells in the context of a brain-hair follicle axis.
Beneficial effects of quercetin on oxidative stress induced by ultraviolet A.	Cells exposed to ultraviolet A (UVA) radiation can induce the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) that may damage cellular elements. By contrast, antioxidants can reduce production of ROS. To assess these cellular events in a model system, rats were divided into three groups comprising control (C), ultraviolet exposed (UV), and ultraviolet exposed and quercetin-treated (UV + Q). UV and UV + Q group rats were irradiated 4 h/day with UVA radiation (1.25 mW/cm2) for 9 days. In the UV + Q group rats quercetin (50 mg/kg body weight) was administered intraperitoneally before irradiation. The levels of malondialdehyde (MDA) were increased significantly following irradiation (P < 0.001). In the UV + Q group MDA levels declined significantly compared with the UV group (P < 0.001). With respect to levels of glutathione (GSH), no statistically significant changes were found between the control and the UV group. The GSH levels in the UV + Q group were slightly higher than those of the control and UV groups, but not significantly so. The enzyme activities of glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, catalase and superoxide dismutase decreased significantly after irradiation (P < 0.001). In the UV + Q group all of these enzyme activities were found to be considerably higher than those in the UV group (P < 0.001). This study demonstrates that exposure of rats to UVA leads to oxidative stress as reflected by increased MDA levels and reduced enzymatic antioxidant levels. It also shows that quercetin may be useful in reducing or preventing photobiologic damage.
Hypothalamo-hypophyseal-adrenal hypofunction caused by the use of bleaching cosmetics in Senegal]	Cosmetic use of bleaching agents to clear skin is widespread among black West African women. In Dakar, most products used for whole body applications contain highly potent corticosteroids. Whereas cutaneous adverse effects are well described, little is known about possible systemic consequences. In order to assess transcutaneous absorption of glucocorticoids, hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis functionality can be tested. We measured plasma cortisol concentration at 8 h and 1 h after intramuscular injection of 250 micrograms of cosyntropin (Synacthen) in 12 women with a more than 10 years use of bleaching agents. Cortisol at 8 H was also measured in 9 non exposed women without disease or treatment able to disturb glucocorticoids metabolism. All controls had 8 H cortisol concentration (mean = 521 +/- 113 nmol/l) above the minimal normal level considered by our laboratory. The 8 H cortisol concentrations were under the minimal normal level in 9 exposed women and the overall mean value was significantly lower than the one observed in controls (264 +/- 81 nmol/l; p < 0.001). After cosyntropin, cortisol concentrations were elevated among all exposed women (469 +/- 196 nmol/l), and less so in 3 of them. Most of the bleaching agents users present a functional inertia of hypothalamo-pituitary adrenal axis. While there is no absolute evidence for risk of stress-induced adrenal insufficiency, our results show conclusively that an excessive corticosteroids charge among users who could be exposed to systemic adverse effects.
Heat shock proteins in the photobiology of human skin.	All organisms respond to sudden environmental changes with the increased transcription of genes belonging to the family of heat shock proteins (hsps). Hsp-inducing stress factors include elevated temperatures, alcohol, heavy metals, oxidants, and agents leading to protein denaturation. The induction of heat shock proteins is followed by a transient state of increased resistance to further stress and the heat shock response is generally thought to represent an evolutionary conserved adaptive mechanism to cope with hostile environmental conditions. Since the skin as a barrier organ has to cope with the potentially harmful consequences of exposure to ultraviolet radiation (UV), it appears reasonable to question whether hsps constitute a natural defence mechanism against UV. Hsps have been detected in resting as well as in stressed epidermal and dermal cells and overexpression of hsps is associated with increased resistance to UV-induced cell death. Furthermore, UV itself is able to induce the expression of specific hsps. Thus, hsps might provide an adaptive cellular response to increasing UV and enhancing the expression of hsps might turn out as a new way to deal with the immediate and long-term consequences of UV exposure. Prerequisite for the utilization of this concept is the development of non-toxic heat shock inducers and their evaluation for clinical efficacy and safety.
Acute response of human skin to solar radiation: regulation and function of the p53 protein.	p53 is a tumor suppressor gene and mutation of p53 is a frequent event in skin cancer. The wild-type p53 encodes for a 53-kD phosphoprotein that plays a pivotal role in regulating cell growth and cell death. The wt-p53 gene is also called "guardian of the genome", for its role in preventing the accumulation of genetic alterations, observed in cancer cells. The wild-type p53 protein plays a central role in the response of the cell to DNA damage. UV, present in sunlight, is one of the most ubiquitously present DNA damage inducing stress conditions to which skin cells are exposed. The wt-p53 protein accumulates in human skin cells in vitro and in human skin in vivo upon UV irradiation. This upregulation mounts a protective response against permanent DNA damage through transactivation of either cell cycle arrest genes and DNA repair genes or genes that mediate the apoptotic response. The molecular events which regulate the activity of the wt-p53 protein activity are only beginning to be described.
CD1a-positive dendritic cells transport the antigen DNCB intracellularly from the skin to the regional lymph nodes in the induction phase of allergic contact dermatitis.	Dendritic cells are potent stimulators of T cell-mediated immune responses. In contact hypersensitivity reactions in animals dendritic cells have been reported to transport antigens to the regional lymph nodes. In this study we investigated whether skin-derived dendritic cells transport contact antigens via the afferent lymph in humans. By means of a microsurgical technique lymph cells were collected after painting a defined skin region with a 2% concentration of the sensitizing agent 2,4-dinitrochlorobenzene on the leg of 14 volunteers. There was no significant change in flow, output or composition of cells after antigen painting. Using flow cytometric analysis we were able to detect the antigen in CD1a+ dendritic cells of the afferent lymph 15-25 h after antigen application. The antigen could only be detected after permeabilizing the dendritic cells, indicating that the main part of the antigen is transported intracellularly and not on the surface of these cells. Further analysis of cell surface antigens such as CD80, CD86, HLA-DR, CD11a, CD14, CD23, CD25 and CD54 revealed that in the course of cutaneous sensitization the phenotype of the dendritic cells was not altered in the afferent lymph. These results provide direct evidence that during the induction phase of allergic contact dermatitis in humans antigen-bearing dendritic cells internalize the antigen and migrate from the skin via the afferent lymph vessels to the lymph nodes.
Comparison of the effect of fatty alcohols on the permeation of melatonin between porcine and human skin.	Melatonin (MT) is a hormone secreted by the pineal gland that plays an important role in the regulation of the circadian sleep-wake cycle. It would be advantageous to administer MT using a transdermal delivery system for the treatment of sleep disorders such as delayed sleep syndrome, jet lag in travelers, cosmonauts and shift workers. The porcine skin has been found to have similar morphological and functional characteristics as human skin. The elastic fibres in the dermis, enzyme pattern of the epidermis, epidermal tissue turnover time, keratinous proteins and thickness of epidermis of porcine skin are similar to human skin. However, the fat deposition and vascularisation of the cutaneous glands of porcine skin are different from human skin. In addition, porcine skin has been found to have a close permeability character to human skin. However, the comparative effect of chemical penetration enhancers on the permeation of drugs between porcine and human skin has not been reported. The purpose of this study was to compare the effect of fatty alcohols on the permeability of porcine and human skin using MT as a model compound. The effect of saturated fatty alcohols (octanol, nonanol, decanol, undecanol, lauryl alcohol, tridecanol, myristyl alcohol) and unsaturated fatty alcohols (oleyl alcohol, linoleyl alcohol, linolenyl alcohol) at 5% concentration was tested across dermatomed porcine and human skin. Our studies showed a parabolic relationship between the carbon chain length of saturated fatty alcohols and permeation enhancement of MT with both porcine and human skin. Maximum permeation of MT was observed when fatty alcohol carbon chain length was 10. In general, as the level of unsaturation increased from one to two double bonds, there was an increase in the permeation of MT both in porcine and human skin. However, a decrease in the permeation was observed with three double bonds. Regression analysis using the steady state flux data showed a significant positive correlation between porcine and human skin for saturated fatty alcohols (r(2)=0.8868, P=0.0005). However, though a positive correlation was observed between the porcine and human skin (r(2)=0.8638), the correlation was statistically insignificant (P=0.0706). The static diffusion cell system employed in this study has major artifact compared to a flow through system. In conclusion, the permeability of porcine skin to MT in the presence of saturated and unsaturated fatty alcohols was qualitatively similar to human skin but quantitatively different with some fatty alcohols.
Polymeric transdermal drug penetration enhancer. The enhancing effect of oligodimethylsiloxane containing a glucopyranosyl end group.	Oligodimethylsiloxanes (ODMSs) containing a beta-D-glucopyranosyl group at one chain end (Glc-ODMSs) with various molecular weights were prepared to develop a silicone-based polymeric transdermal penetration enhancer with a non-ionic polar end group. Glc-ODMSs were prepared by hydrosilylation of hydrosilyl-terminated ODMS with 1-allyl-beta-D-glucose tetraacetate in the presence of bis(benzonitrile)platinum dichloride as the catalyst, followed by hydrolysis of the acetyl groups with sodium methoxide. The enhancing effect in the drug penetration was evaluated by in vitro experiments using a two-chamber diffusion cell. Antipyrine was used as a model drug, and the amount of drug permeating through the rat abdominal skin with or without Glc-ODMS was determined by HPLC. These enhancers were effective for the penetration of antipyrine. On the other hand, the enhancing effects were influenced by the concentration of Glc-ODMS coexisted regardless of its ODMS chain length. The enhancing effect was also observed by the pretreatment of the skin with Glc-ODMS before the drug permeation, the results of which suggested that the induction periods to appear the enhancing effects were different between Glc-ODMSs with the short and the long ODMS chain lengths. Furthermore, according to the Draize test, Glc-ODMSs exhibited no irritation to the skin regardless of the ODMS chain length.
Genetic bases of severe junctional epidermolysis bullosa presenting spontaneous amelioration with aging.	Change of the clinical picture with aging is noted in some patients suffering from junctional epidermolysis bullosa (JEB), an inherited blistering disorder caused by extensive disadhesion of the epithelia. We have studied a patient born with severe JEB associated with absent expression of laminin 5. A remarkable reduction of the blistering tendency was observed with aging that correlated with a restored expression of immunoreactive laminin 5 molecules. Genetic analysis of the gene LAMB3 detected compound heterozygosity for the nonsense mutation R635X and a novel 2 bp deletion (1587delAG) resulting in a downstream premature termination codon. RT-PCR amplification of total RNA purified from skin biopsies demonstrated that the mutated beta3 mRNAs underwent rapid decay shortly after birth, and that illegitimate splicing of the mRNA carrying mutation 1587delAG generated a new internally shortened beta3 transcript with advancing age. Our genetic and biochemical data show that (i) the illegitimate splicing of the beta3 pre-mRNA results in synthesis and secretion of a laminin 5 heterotrimer with an internally deleted beta3 polypeptide, (ii) expression of the mutated beta3 polypeptide is up-regulated in the basal keratinocytes with high proliferative potential, (iii) absence of the N-terminal region of the beta3 rod domain II thought to stabilize the tertiary structure of the laminin 5 is not required for the assembly of the protein and (iv) the mutant laminin 5 retains its adhesive potential. Our results demonstrate that mRNA rescue may underlie the evolution of the clinical phenotype in inherited skin conditions.
Dietary sesame seeds elevate alpha- and gamma-tocotrienol concentrations in skin and adipose tissue of rats fed the tocotrienol-rich fraction extracted from palm oil.	The metabolism of tocotrienol remains unclear. We studied the distribution of tocotrienol in rats fed the tocotrienol-rich fraction extracted from palm oil. We have previously shown that dietary sesame seeds markedly elevate the tocopherol concentration in rats. In this study, we also examined the effect of dietary sesame seeds on the tocotrienol concentration. In experiment 1, rats (4-wk-old) were fed the diet with alpha-tocopherol alone or with alpha- and gamma-tocotrienols. In experiment 2, the effect of dietary sesame seeds on tocopherol and tocotrienol concentrations in rats fed the diet with tocopherol and tocotrienol was studied. The rats were fed the experimental diet for 8 wk in both experiments. alpha- and gamma-Tocotrienols accumulated in the adipose tissue and skin, but not in plasma or other tissues, of the rats fed tocotrienols. Dietary sesame seeds elevated (P < 0.05) tocotrienol concentrations in the adipose tissue and skin, but did not affect their concentrations in other tissues or in plasma. The gamma-tocopherol concentration in all tissues and plasma of rats fed gamma-tocopherol was extremely low but was elevated (P < 0.05) in many tissues by feeding sesame seeds. These data suggest that the transport and tissue uptake of vitamin E isoforms are different. Dietary sesame seeds elevate the concentrations of both tocopherols and tocotrienols.
Trends in the musk xylene concentrations in plasma samples from the general population from 1992/1993 to 1998 and the relevance of dermal uptake.	Musk xylene (MX), an environmentally important nitromusk compound, is used in different fragrances and soaps as substitute for natural musk. MX is known to occur in breast milk and plasma samples from the general population. Biological monitoring was carried out to study the change in MX concentrations in plasma from the general population over a period of about 6 years.
Transdermal lontophoresis and skin retention of piroxicam from gels containing piroxicam: hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin complexes.	Iontophoretic transport of piroxicam (Px) across porcine ear skin in vitro was investigated. Cathodal iontophoresis of negatively charged Px was carried out from gel formulations containing Px as an inclusion complex with hydroxypropl-beta-cyclodextrin (HP-beta-CD). From the gels, following a 7h application period at 0.4 mA/cm2, iontophoresis delivered 3.4 times more drug than passive diffusion. The formation of Px:-HP-beta-CD complexes did not increase the iontophoretic Px flux through the skin. However, Px complexation with HP-beta-CD allowed us to increase the drug concentration in the gel; because of that, the amount of Px transported across the skin increased considerably. After iontophoretic experiments, the amount of Px retained in skin seemed to be related to the flux values obtained in each case. Skin pretreatment with 20% HP-beta-CD, tested passively and iontophoretically for 3h, followed by the application of gel containing Px: HP-beta-CD complexes, showed no enhancing capacity in any case. The amount of Px retained in the skin after pretreatment experiments was found to be very similar to that obtained without skin pretreatment and was observed to be related to the Px flux through the skin.
The potential role of abnormal E-cadherin and alpha-, beta- and gamma-catenin immunoreactivity in the determination of the biological behaviour of keratoacanthoma.	Failure of E-cadherin and its associated proteins alpha-, beta- and gamma-catenin is believed to lead to disruption of cell-cell adhesion and to contribute to neoplasia.
beta-Catenin expression in the transitional cell zone of pilomatricoma.	beta-Catenin, a participant in the Wnt pathway, has been shown to play an important role in the morphogenesis of hair follicles and the formation of hair follicle-related tumours, including pilomatricomas. It has been observed that at least 75% of human pilomatricomas possess activating mutations in beta-catenin. These findings suggested that beta-catenin plays an important role in the tumorigenesis of pilomatricomas. However, the pattern of beta-catenin expression in pilomatricoma tissues is still unclear. Objectives To examine the expression of beta-catenin in human pilomatricomas by immunohistochemical staining.
The Mad1 transcription factor is a novel target of activin and TGF-beta action in keratinocytes: possible role of Mad1 in wound repair and psoriasis.	Activin A, a member of the transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) superfamily, affects keratinocyte proliferation and differentiation in vitro and in vivo. However, little is known about the mechanisms of activin action in keratinocytes, and its target genes have not been identified. In this study, we demonstrate that activin A and TGF-beta1 directly induce the expression and activity of Mad1, an antagonist of the c-Myc transcription factor, in the human HaCaT keratinocyte cell line. Expression and activity of Mad1 was strongly induced by both factors in keratinocytes, although the intensity of induction was different for activin A and TGF-beta1. To determine a possible role of activin and TGF-beta in the regulation of mad1 expression in vivo, we analysed its expression during cutaneous wound repair when high levels of these factors are present. Expression of mad1 mRNA and protein, but not of other mad genes, increased significantly after skin injury, particularly in polymorphonuclear leukocytes and in suprabasal keratinocytes of the hyperproliferative epithelium. Elevated levels of mad1 mRNA were also detected in the hyperthickened epidermis of psoriatic patients. Since Mad1 regulates proliferation and/or differentiation of various cell types, our results suggest that this transcription factor mediates at least in the part the anti-mitotic and/or differentiation-inducing activities of TGF-beta and activin in keratinocytes.
Overexpression of monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 in systemic sclerosis: role of platelet-derived growth factor and effects on monocyte chemotaxis and collagen synthesis.	In addition to its chemotactic properties, recent evidence suggests that monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1) might participate in the fibrotic process by inducing the secretion of extracellular matrix (ECM) components. Since the factors that initiate the accumulation of inflammatory infiltrates and ECM deposits in systemic sclerosis (SSc) skin lesions are still unknown, this study was undertaken to examine the role of MCP-1 in SSc.
Skin-homing interleukin-4 and -13-producing cells contribute to bullous pemphigoid: remission of disease is associated with increased frequency of interleukin-10-producing cells.	Although evidence is accumulating that type 2 cytokines play a part in the pathogenesis of bullous pemphigoid, little information is available concerning characterization of the cellular source of these cytokines involved in the pathogenesis of bullous pemphigoid. By using multiparameter flow cytometry, we investigated T cells capable of producing interleukin-2, -4, -10, and -13, interferon-gamma, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha and their correlated expression of skin-homing receptor (cutaneous lymphocyte-associated antigen) in peripheral blood and skin blister of patients with bullous pemphigoid. In peripheral blood of bullous pemphigoid patients, significantly increased frequencies of interleukin-4- and interleukin-13-producing cells were found as compared with those of healthy controls, and the majority of these type 2 cells was found in the cutaneous lymphocyte-associated antigen-positive population. The frequency of interferon-gamma-producing cells was also increased as compared with healthy subjects; however, the majority of this subset was found in the cutaneous lymphocyte-associated antigen-negative population. In the skin blister, the frequencies of interleukin-13- and interleukin-4-producing cells were much higher than those in the peripheral blood of bullous pemphigoid, whereas that of interferon-gamma producing cells was significantly lower. Furthermore, in bullous pemphigoid patients after therapy with systemic corticosteroids, the frequency of cutaneous lymphocyte-associated antigen-positive, but not cutaneous lymphocyte-associated antigen-negative, interleukin-13-producing cells was significantly decreased accompanied by an increased frequency of interleukin-10-producing cells, which was associated with clinical improvement. Thus, our results suggest that bullous pemphigoid is a unique organ-specific autoimmune disease characterized by an expansion of skin-homing interleukin-13-producing cells. In addition, corticosteroids may control such type 2 biased inflammatory responses in bullous pemphigoid by promoting the expansion of interleukin-10-producing cells.
Human beta defensin-1 and -2 expression in human pilosebaceous units: upregulation in acne vulgaris lesions.	A rich residential microflora is harboured by the distal outer root sheath of the hair follicle and the hair canal - normally without causing skin diseases. Although the basic mechanisms involved in the development of inflammation during acne vulgaris remain unclear, microbial agents might play an important role in this process. In this study we have analyzed by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry the expression patterns of two antimicrobial peptides, human beta defensin-1 and human beta defensin-2, in healthy human hair follicles as well as in perilesional and intralesional skin of acne vulgaris lesions such as comedones, papules, and pustules. Strong defensin-1 and defensin-2 immunoreactivity was found in all suprabasal layers of the epidermis, the distal outer root sheath of the hair follicle, and the pilosebaceous duct. Marked defensin-1 and defensin-2 immunoreactivity was also found in the sebaceous gland and in the basal layer of the central outer root sheath including the bulge region. The majority of acne biopsies displayed a marked upregulation of defensin-2 immunoreactivity in the lesional and perilesional epithelium - in particular in pustules - and a less marked upregulation of defensin-1 immunoreactivity. The upregulation of beta-defensin expression in acne vulgaris lesions compared to controls suggests that beta-defensins may be involved in the pathogenesis of acne vulgaris.
Aging- and photoaging-dependent changes of enzymic and nonenzymic antioxidants in the epidermis and dermis of human skin in vivo.	This is a comprehensive study of the changes in major antioxidant enzymes and antioxidant molecules during intrinsic aging and photoaging processes in the epidermis and dermis of human skin in vivo. We show that the activities of superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase are not changed during these processes in human skin in vivo. Interestingly, the activity of catalase was significantly increased in the epidermis of photoaged (163%) and naturally aged (118%) skin (n = 9), but it was significantly lower in the dermis of photoaged (67% of the young skin level) and naturally aged (55%) skin compared with young (n = 7) skin. The activity of glutathione reductase was significantly higher (121%) in naturally aged epidermis. The concentration of alpha-tocopherol was significantly lower in the epidermis of photoaged (56% of young skin level) and aged (61%) skin, but this was not found to be the case in the dermis. Ascorbic acid levels were lower in both epidermis (69% and 61%) and dermis (63% and 70%) of photoaged and naturally aged skin, respectively. Gluta thione concentrations were also lower. Uric acid did not show any significant changes. Our results suggest that the components of the antioxidant defense system in human skin are probably regulated in a complex manner during the intrinsic aging and photoaging processes.
Effect of healing on the expression of transforming growth factor beta(s) and their receptors in chronic venous leg ulcers.	The transforming growth factor betas are of major importance in the wound repair process; however, no studies to date have investigated the role of the transforming growth factor beta receptors in chronic venous leg ulcers or what effect healing has on these proteins. To determine whether the transforming growth factor beta peptides and their receptors are expressed in chronic venous wounds, we used immunofluorescent analysis and quantitative competitive reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction to identify the protein and mRNA expression, respectively. Biopsy samples from wounds and normal skin were collected from 12 patients with chronic venous leg ulcers and three patients undergoing reconstructive surgery, respectively. Additionally four of the chronic venous leg ulcer patients were re-biopsied between 2 and 8 wk after the first biopsy when the wounds had entered the healing phase. The tissue excised from the ulcers included the surrounding intact skin, the ulcer edge, and the ulcer base. Immunofluorescent staining for transforming growth factors beta1, beta2, and beta3 was observed within the epidermis of the skin surrounding the chronic venous ulcers and in fibroblasts and inflammatory cells of the dermis, although this staining was not as strong as that seen in normal unwounded skin. Very little staining could be seen within the ulcers for any of the ligands, however. In contrast the transforming growth factor beta type I receptor was observed throughout the ulcers and the normal unwounded skin biopsies, particularly in the basal epidermal cells. No immunofluorescence for the type II transforming growth factor beta receptor was observed in any of the ulcer biopsies investigated, although it was observed throughout the epidermis and in fibroblasts and inflammatory cells in the surrounding skin. Quantitative, competitive reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction was used to analyze mRNA expression for transforming growth factor beta1 and the type II receptor in the nonhealing ulcers and normal unwounded skin biopsies. These studies revealed that transforming growth factor beta1 and transforming growth factor beta receptor II mRNA was expressed in all the chronic nonhealing ulcers albeit at very low levels for the type II receptor. In marked contrast to the staining observed in nonhealing chronic ulcers, positive immunostaining was observed for the transforming growth factor betas and both the type I and type II receptors in healing ulcers. These results suggest that the absence of a viable receptor complex for the transforming growth factor betas in nonhealing chronic venous ulcers may contribute to wound chronicity.
Acid-base relationships in the blood of the toad, Bufo marinus. III. The effects of burrowing.	When Bufo marinus burrows, the skin becomes intimately surrounded by substrate but the nares always remain exposed to the surface air. Upon entering into a state of dormancy the animal hypoventilates and this together with the loss of the skin as a respiratory site results in a rise in arterial blood PCO2 despite a probable decline in metabolism. Even though lung ventilation falls, the toad regulates blood pH and the respiratory acidosis is progressively compensated for by a progressive increase in plasma [HCO3-] along the course of an elevated PCO2 isopleth. At steady state, the acidosis is fully compensated for by a new equilibrium ratio of HCO3- to PCO2 at the same pH as the non-burrowed animal. Arousal from the dormant state at this time results in a marked lung hyperventilation and a sharp decline in body CO2 stores.
Histamine antagonizes tumor necrosis factor (TNF) signaling by stimulating TNF receptor shedding from the cell surface and Golgi storage pool.	Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) activates pro-inflammatory functions of vascular endothelial cells (EC) through binding to receptor type 1 (TNFR1) molecules expressed on the cell surface. The majority of TNFR1 molecules are localized to the Golgi apparatus. Soluble forms of TNFR1 (as well as of TNFR2) can be shed from the EC surface and inhibit TNF actions. The relationships among cell surface, Golgi-associated, and shed forms of TNFR1 are unclear. Here we report that histamine causes transient loss of surface TNFR1, TNFR1 shedding, and mobilization of TNFR1 molecules from the Golgi in cultured human EC. The Golgi pool of TNFR1 serves both to replenish cell surface receptors and as a source of shed receptor. Histamine-induced shedding is blocked by TNF-alpha protease inhibitor, an inhibitor of TNF-alpha-converting enzyme, and through the H1 receptor via a MEK-1/p42 and p44 mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway. Cultured EC with histamine-induced surface receptor loss become transiently refractory to TNF. Histamine injection into human skin engrafted on immunodeficient mice similarly caused shedding of TNFR1 and diminished TNF-mediated induction of endothelial adhesion molecules. These results both clarify relationships among TNFR1 populations and reveal a novel anti-inflammatory activity of histamine.
Oxygen partial pressure in outer layers of skin of human finger nail folds.	To gain insight into oxygen transport by the cutaneous microcirculation, we have developed oxygen-sensitive microelectrodes (tip diameter approximately 5 micro m) to measure the distribution of PO2 in dermal papillae of the finger nail folds of healthy human subjects. Oxygen entry into the tissue was minimised by covering the skin with a layer of paraffin oil. The finger was held under a dissecting microscope and microelectrodes were guided into position. PO2 varied from 5-25 % of its atmospheric value, Pair (approximately 160 mmHg), depending on the location within the papilla. Along the axis of a papillary loop, PO2 decreased from 40.0 +/- 4.8 mmHg (mean +/- S.E.M., n = 6) at the base to 30.4 +/- 5.2 mmHg (n = 6) at the tip. The lowest values of PO2, in the range of 5 % of Pair, were measured in the epidermis where the metabolism of cells was highest and the steepest PO2 gradients were recorded in the vicinity of the epidermal-dermal boundary. When the local circulation was abruptly reduced or stopped, PO2 fell exponentially with time, with a time constant of 8.4 +/- 1.5 s (n = 7). When flow was reinstated, PO2 rose exponentially to a new value with a time constant of 4.8 +/- 0.8 s (n = 6). The steady state PO2 following reperfusion was approximately 23 % higher than the pre-occlusion value (P < 0.05, ANOVA and two-tailed Student's t test) indicating localised reactive hyperaemia.
NPC1 and NPC2 regulate cellular cholesterol homeostasis through generation of low density lipoprotein cholesterol-derived oxysterols.	Mutations in the Niemann-Pick disease genes cause lysosomal cholesterol accumulation and impaired low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol esterification. These findings have been attributed to a block in cholesterol movement from lysosomes to the site of the sterol regulatory machinery. In this study we show that Niemann-Pick type C1 (NPC1) and Niemann-Pick type C2 (NPC2) mutants have increased cellular cholesterol, yet they are unable to suppress LDL receptor activity and cholesterol biosynthesis. Cholesterol overload in both NPC1 and NPC2 mutants results from the failure of LDL cholesterol tobothsuppresssterolregulatoryelement-bindingprotein-dependent gene expression and promote liver X receptor-mediated responses. However, the severity of the defect in regulation of sterol homeostasis does not correlate with endoplasmic reticulum cholesterol levels, but rather with the degree to which NPC mutant fibroblasts fail to appropriately generate 25-hydroxycholesterol and 27-hydroxycholesterol in response to LDL cholesterol. Moreover, we demonstrate that treatment with oxysterols reduces cholesterol in NPC mutants and is able to correct the NPC1I1061T phenotype, the most prevalent NPC1 disease genotype. Our findings support a role for NPC1 and NPC2 in the regulation of sterol homeostasis through generation of LDL cholesterol-derived oxysterols and have important implications for the treatment of NPC disease.
Epidermal tissue regeneration and stromal interaction in HaCaT cells is initiated by TGF-alpha.	The human keratinocyte cell line HaCaT expresses essentially all epidermal differentiation markers but exhibits deficiencies in tissue organization as surface transplants in nude mice and even more so in organotypic co-cultures with fibroblasts. Whereas tissue differentiation by normal keratinocytes (NEKs) is regulated by stromal interactions, this mechanism is impaired in HaCaT cells. This regulatory process is initiated by interleukin-1 (IL-1) release in keratinocytes, which induces expression of keratinocyte growth factor (KGF/FGF-7) and granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) in fibroblasts. Production and release of IL-1 is very low and, consequently, expression of the fibroblast-derived growth factors KGF/FGF-7 and GM-CSF is absent in HaCaT-fibroblast co-cultures. However, addition of KGF and GMCSF, respectively, is inefficient to improve stratification and differentiation by HaCaT cells due to the low expression of their cognate receptors. More importantly, expression and release of the autocrine keratinocyte growth factor TGF-alpha is dramatically decreased in HaCaT cells. Addition of TGF- alpha or EGF stimulated HaCaT cell proliferation but, even more effectively, suppressed apoptosis, thus facilitating the formation of a regularly stratified epithelium. Furthermore, TGF-alpha enhanced the expression of the receptors for KGF and GM-CSF so that addition of these growth factors, or of their inducer IL-1, further improved epidermal tissue differentiation leading to in vitro skin equivalents comparable with cultures of NEKs. Thus, supplementing TGF-alpha normalized epidermal tissue regeneration by immortal HaCaT keratinocytes and their interaction with stromal cells so that regular skin equivalents are produced as standardized in vitro models.
A comparative study on the skin penetration of pure tryptanthrin and tryptanthrin in Isatis tinctoria extract by dermal microdialysis coupled with isotope dilution ESI-LC-MS.	The indolo[2,1- b]quinazoline alkaloid tryptanthrin has recently been identified as a pharmacologically active compound in Isatis tinctoria, with potent dual inhibitory activity on prostaglandin and leukotriene synthesis. To investigate the skin penetration of tryptanthrin from solutions of pure compound and Isatis extracts, we developed and validated a cutaneous microdialysis model using ex vivo pig foreleg. Microdialysis was performed by placing linear probes in the dermis of the skin in situ, and tryptanthrin concentrations in the dialysates were determined by isotope dilution electrospray ionization LC-MS in the selected ion mode. Measurable concentrations of tryptanthrin were detected 30 min after application. A dose-dependent increase in tryptanthrin concentrations in the dialysate was observed for the Isatis extracts, but not for pure tryptanthrin. Microscopic analysis showed that the pure compound crystallized from the solution but remained in an amorphous state in the extracts.
Levels of heavy metals (Fe, Cu, Ni, Cr, Pb, and Zn) in tissue of Mugil cephalus and Trachurus mediterraneus from Iskenderun Bay, Turkey.	Concentrations of iron, copper, nickel, chromium, lead, and zinc were determined in the muscle, skin and gonads of Mugil cephalus and Trachurus mediterraneus caught at three stations in Iskenderun Bay, Turkey. Heavy metal concentrations in the tissues tended to vary significantly among stations, and two stations thought to be contaminated by untreated domestic wastes and surrounding industrial environment showed particularly high metal concentrations. Generally, skin and gonads showed higher metal concentrations than muscle. The ranges of mean concentrations (micro g/g wet wt) in M. cephalus were as follows: the range of iron concentration was 70.28, 149.77, and 382.51, that of copper was 1.45, 5.36, and 35.37, that of nickel was 1.22, 2.72, and 7.35, that of chromium was 1.46, 3.22, and 10.06, that of lead was 7.45, 37.39, and 62.33, and that of zinc was 38.23, 100.56, and 281.51 in the muscle, skin, and gonads, respectively. The ranges of mean concentrations (micro g/g wet wt) in T. mediterraneus were as follows: the range of iron concentration was 41.84, 49.86, and 74.20, that of copper was 1.29, 3.33, and 11.37, that of nickel was 0.94, 2.02, and 0.99, that of chromium was 1.28, 10.90, and 10.60, that of lead was 1.03, 4.78, and 8.41, and that of zinc was 19.55, 60.79, and 38.44 in the muscle, skin, and gonads, respectively. The concentrations of some metals in some tissues exceeded the acceptable levels for a food source for human consumption. The results of this study indicated that the metals present in the bay were taken up by two fish species through food, water, and sediment, and regardless of their biological needs showed high metal concentrations.
A melittin-related peptide from the skin of the Japanese frog, Rana tagoi, with antimicrobial and cytolytic properties.	Two peptides with antimicrobial and cytolytic properties were purified from an extract of the skin of Tago's brown frog Rana tagoi. The primary structure of one peptide (FLPILGKLLS(10)GIL.NH(2)) identifies it as a member of the temporin family, whereas the second peptide (AIGSILGALA(10)KGLPTLISWI(20)KNR.NH(2)) displays 78% sequence identity to melittin from the venom of the honeybee Apis florea. Compared with melittin, the melittin-related peptide (MRP) was equipotent in inhibiting the growth of the Gram-positive bacterium Staphylococcus aureus, 5-fold less potent against the Gram-negative bacterium Escherichia coli and against the fungal pathogen, Candida albicans. MRP was 13-fold less hemolytic than melittin against human erythrocytes and 4- and 5-fold less cytolytic against mouse EL4 T-lymphoma-derived cells and L929 fibroblasts, respectively. However, at non-cytotoxic concentrations (<or=8 microM), MRP did not protect HeLa cells from cell death produced by human rhinovirus type 2 infection.
The effect of caloric restriction on glycation and glycoxidation in skin collagen of nonhuman primates.	The accumulation of Maillard reaction products increases with age in long-lived proteins and can be retarded by caloric restriction. Here we determined whether caloric restriction inhibits formation of glycation and glycoxidation products in skin collagen of squirrel and rhesus monkeys between 1990-1997. Restricted monkeys (n = 11, n = 30, respectively) were maintained at 70% of caloric intake of controls (n = 25, n = 32, respectively). Glycation was assessed by furosine and glycoxidation by pentosidine and carboxymethyl-lysine. With age, the rate of furosine formation moderately but nonsignificantly (p >.05) increased in both control monkey groups. It significantly (p =.011) decreased in the caloric-restricted rhesus, but not squirrel monkeys. Caloric restriction did not significantly decrease the pentosidine or carboxymethyl-lysine rates in either species of monkeys. These results suggest that caloric restriction, when maintained long-term in nonhuman primates, tends to decrease glycation, but not glycoxidation.
Fluorescence spectral imaging of dihydroxyacetone on skin in vivo.	Dihydroxyacetone (DHA) has been proposed as a potential alternative to dansyl chloride for use as a fluorescence marker on skin to assess stratum corneum turnover time in vivo. However, the fluorescence from DHA on skin has not been adequately studied. To address this void, a noninvasive, noncontact spectral imaging system is used to characterize the fluorescence spectrum of DHA on skin in vivo and to determine the optimal wavelengths over which to collect the DHA signal that minimizes the contributions from skin autofluorescence. The DHA-skin fluorescence signal dominates the 580-680 nm region of the visible spectrum when excited with ultraviolet radiation in the 320-400 nm wavelength region (UVA). An explanation of the time-dependent spectral features is proposed in terms of DHA polymerization and binding to skin.
Expression of oncostatin M receptor beta in a specific subset of nociceptive sensory neurons.	Oncostatin M belongs to the interleukin-6 family of cytokines and acts as a multifunctional cytokine during murine embryogenesis and in inflammatory reactions. Although it has been demonstrated that oncostatin M has biological activities on many types of cells, including hepatocytes, dermal fibroblasts and endothelial cells, the roles of oncostatin M in the murine peripheral nervous system remain unclear. Here, we investigated the expression of specific beta-subunit of oncostatin M receptor in the dorsal root ganglia of adult mice. In the adult dorsal root ganglia, beta-subunit of oncostatin M receptor was exclusively expressed in small-sized neurons. Approximately 13% of total dorsal root ganglia neurons in mice contained beta-subunit of oncostatin M receptor. The double-immunofluorescence method revealed that approximately 28% of beta-subunit of oncostatin M receptor-positive neurons contained TrkA immunoreactivity, 63% expressed Ret immunoreactivity and 58% bound isolectin B4. No neuropeptides, including substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide, were contained in the neurons. In addition, all beta-subunit of oncostatin M receptor-positive neurons expressed both vanilloid receptor 1 and P2X3 purinergic receptor. These neurons projected to the inner portion of lamina II in the dorsal horn of spinal cord and the dermis of skin. Seven days after sciatic nerve axotomy, the expression of beta-subunit of oncostatin M receptor was down-regulated in the lumbar dorsal root ganglia of the injured side. Our study demonstrated that beta-subunit of oncostatin M receptor was expressed in both cell bodies and processes of nonpeptidergic nociceptive neurons in adult mice, suggesting that oncostatin M may affect the nociceptive function of the neurons through the modulation of vanilloid receptor 1 and P2X3 expression.
Investigation into the potential of iontophoresis facilitated delivery of ketorolac.	The potential for iontophoresis facilitated transdermal transport of ketorolac was investigated using rat skin. Studies of electrical, physicochemical and device-related factors acting on the permeation kinetics of in vitro iontophoresis were performed. Iontophoresis increased the transdermal permeation flux of ketorolac as compared to the diffusion. Increase in applied current density or decrease in ionic strength of the donor solution enhanced the flux of the drug. Use of either platinum or silver/silver chloride electrodes resulted in similar enhancement of drug flux. Continuous current was more potent than pulsed current in promoting ketorolac transdermal permeation. Increasing the frequency or on:off ratio of pulse current induced an enhancement of the flux through the skin. An increase in donor drug loading dose or increasing the duration of current application resulted in enhancement of the drug flux. Pretreatment of the skin with D-limonene in ethanol or D-limonene in ethanol + ultrasound significantly enhanced the iontophoretic flux of the drug in comparison to passive flux with or without pretreatment. Trimodality treatment comprising of pretreatment with D-limonene in ethanol + ultrasound in combination followed by iontophoresis was found to be most potent for enhancing the rate of permeation of ketorolac.
Determination of roxithromycin by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry after multiple-dose oral administration in broilers.	A highly sensitive and specific method for the determination of roxithromycin in broiler tissues by LC/MS was developed and validated. A dichloromethane extract of the sample was separated on C18 reversed-phase column with acetonitrile-50 mM ammonium acetate (80:20, v/v) as the mobile phase and analyzed by LC/MS via atmospheric pressure ionization/electrospray ionization interface. The limit of detection and limit of quantitation were 1 ng/g and 5 ng/g. The method has been successfully applied to determine for roxithromycin in various tissues of broilers. Residue concentrations were associated with administered dose. At the termination of treatment, roxithromycin was found in all collected samples for both dose groups. Liver was detected to have the highest residual concentration of roxithromycin. Residue concentrations of roxithromycin were lower than its LOQ in all tissues from both dose groups 10 days after the treatment of roxithromycin mixed with drinking water at a dose rate of 15 mg/L or 60 mg/L to each broiler for 7 days.
Characterization of the permselective properties of rabbit skin during transdermal iontophoresis.	The use of iontophoresis to enhance transdermal transport of drugs necessitates further investigations on the membrane used to simulate human skin because one of the transport mechanisms involved, electroosmosis, strictly depends on the properties of the skin (i.e., its isoelectric point, IP). The aim of this work was to characterize rabbit ear skin permselectivity by measuring the sodium transport number at different pH values. This method allowed us to estimate the skin IP. To confirm the validity of the method, mannitol flux was measured. In addition, the sodium transport number method was applied to the study of human skin and a model drug iontophoretic flux through rabbit and human skin was evaluated. The results indicate that rabbit ear skin behaves as a permselective membrane, with an IP between 2 and 3. The same result was obtained using human skin. The mannitol flux data confirm that the direction of electroosmotic flow at physiological pH is in the anode-to-cathode direction. Finally, permeation experiments performed with a model drug showed that the relative electroosmotic and electrorepulsive contributions to the total flux are the same for human and rabbit skin. It can be concluded that rabbit ear skin is a suitable model for the study of iontophoretic permeation of drugs.
Histamine releasing peptide (HRP) has proinflammatory effects and is present at sites of inflammation.	Albumin, the most abundant plasma protein, readily enters sites of inflammation during the period of increased vascular permeability. There it encounters proteases released from mast cells and invading leukocytes which earlier work has shown can act on albumin to liberate the peptide, histamine releasing peptide (HRP), first identified and named by its ability to stimulate histamine release from isolated mast cells. In this report we show that HRP releases histamine from cutaneous mast cells in vivo resulting in increased vascular permeability and persistent edema while in vitro, HRP promotes chemotaxis of leukocytes and enhances macrophage phagocytosis. Moreover, we show that the level of HRP is increased with the induction of an acute cutaneous inflammatory response in rats, that HRP is present at sites of acute and chronic inflammation in humans and that HRP is rapidly degraded by proteases thereby limiting its action to the area of its generation. We suggest that HRP is a pro-inflammatory peptide that helps amplify and perpetuate the inflammatory response. Inhibitors of inflammatory proteases or antagonists that block the action of peptides like HRP may, therefore, be useful in breaking the cycle of inflammation.
CD30-positive atypical lymphoid cells in common non-neoplastic cutaneous infiltrates rich in neutrophils and eosinophils.	CD30-positive cells characterize lymphomatoid papulosis and anaplastic large cell lymphoma but can also be found in nonneoplastic skin disorders. Purportedly, CD30 is useful in the differential diagnosis between insect bites and lymphomatoid papulosis. Recently, a subtype of neutrophil-rich CD30-positive anaplastic large cell lymphoma has been described, which may enter the differential diagnosis of cutaneous neutrophil-rich inflammatory infiltrates. We studied atypical CD30-positive lymphoid cells in five eosinophil-rich and 23 neutrophil-rich common nonneoplastic skin infiltrates. The eosinophil-rich cases included five insect bites. The neutrophil-rich cases included 9 inflammatory (hidradenitis suppurativa [n = 4], stasis ulcer [n = 2], ruptured cyst, rhynophyma, and Sweet syndrome); 12 infectious (bacterial [n = 8], viral [n = 2] and fungal [n = 2] etiologies); and 2 environmental (spider bites) cases. Atypical CD30-positive cells were found in 4 of 5 eosinophil-rich, 8 of 9 neutrophil-rich inflammatory, 6 of 12 neutrophil-rich infectious, and 2 of 2 neutrophil-rich environmental cases. Polymerase chain reaction analysis for B- and T-cell clonality and cell counts of neutrophils, eosinophils, plasma cells, B cells (using CD20), and T cells (using CD3) were performed in the cases that contained atypical CD30-positive lymphoid cells. CD30-positive cells averaged 4.8% of the cells counted in the areas where they were most concentrated. Of the 18 cases that amplified with polymerase chain reaction, all were polyclonal for T-cell receptor rearrangements; 10 were polyclonal and 8 oligoclonal for B-cell immunoglobulin rearrangements. There was no correlation between B-cell oligoclonality with CD30-positive cell counts, a particular disease, or a disease category. In conclusion, the presence of CD30-positive atypical lymphoid cells in 71.4% of the common nonneoplastic cases studied, even in the presence of clonal B-cell populations, warrants caution in the interpretation of these cells as malignant, particularly when dealing with the differential diagnosis of lymphomatoid papulosis or neutrophil-rich anaplastic large cell lymphoma.
Protein-energy malnutrition and involuntary weight loss: nutritional and pharmacological strategies to enhance wound healing.	Clinically significant involuntary weight loss (IWL) is defined as a loss of 4.5 kg or > 5% of the usual body weight over a period of 6 - 12 months, especially when progressive. Weight loss of > 10% of normal body weight is considered to represent protein-energy malnutrition (PEM). Despite progress in our understanding of the aetiology and pathophysiology of IWL and PEM, these conditions remain frequent and serious problems in several high-risk populations in both acute and long-term care facilities. In patients with IWL and PEM, nonhealing wounds signal a catabolic process that requires prompt nutritional intervention. Aggressive nutritional therapy that provides adequate protein, calories and micronutrients, combined with an anabolic agent such as oxandrolone, may provide the most optimal environment for restoration of lean body mass and body weight and in turn, promote wound healing. More research, however, is needed to define optimal nutritional and anabolic therapies for these patients given the associated high morbidity and cost of care.
Expression of S100A2 and S100B proteins in epithelial tumors of the skin.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the expression of Ca2+-binding S100 proteins, S100A2 and S100B, in normal skin. These immunohistochemical stain patterns were compared with those in a variety of epithelial tumors.
Adhesive strength of marine mussel extracts on porcine skin.	The adhesive characteristics of marine mussel adhesive extracts were examined. Adhesive protein extracted from mussels (Mytilus edulis) was used to bond porcine skin in an end-to-end joint cured in controlled environments, without the use of chemical cross-linking reagents. The two curing conditions were similar to common surgical environments-"dry" (25 degrees C and 40% relative humidity) and "humid" (37 degrees C and 80% relative humidity). The first condition is similar to that of an external incision while the second is similar to conditions for internal incisions that are not exposed to significant flow of body fluids. Results were compared with performance of the commercial adhesive fibrin. Cyanoacrylate was also examined to validate the testing procedure. The tissue joint strength was approximately 1MPa for mussel extract joints cured for 24h under "humid" conditions. Under both conditions, joints bonded with mussel extract showed adhesive strengths similar to those bonded with fibrin, for cure times between 12 and 24h. For shorter cure times (<12h) the mussel adhesive bond was weaker than the fibrin bond under both conditions. The presence of moisture seemed to have a significant effect on the performance of both adhesives, especially mussel extracts. These results indicate that tissue joints formed using mussel extract adhesives have comparable strengths to those formed using fibrin (P=0.38), albeit with a slower curing rate. Further investigation of curing agents for the mussel adhesive extract is warranted.
Comparative in vivo evaluation of propranolol hydrochloride after oral and transdermal administration in rabbits.	The purpose of this study was the in vivo evaluation of orally and transdermally administered propranolol hydrochloride in rabbits. Transdermal patches of propranolol hydrochloride (PPN) were formulated employing ethyl cellulose and polyvinylpyrrolidone as film formers. The pharmacodynamic (PD) and pharmacokinetic (PK) performance of PPN following transdermal administration was compared with that of oral administration. This study was carried out in a randomized cross-over design in male New Zealand albino rabbits. The PK parameters such as maximum plasma concentration (C(max)), time for peak plasma concentration (t(max)), mean residence time (MRT) and area under the curve (AUC(0-alpha)) were significantly (P<0.01) different following transdermal administration compared to oral administration. The terminal elimination half-life (t(1/2)) of transdermally delivered PPN was found to be similar to that following oral administration. In contrast to oral delivery, a sustained therapeutic activity was observed over a period of 24 h after transdermal administration compared to oral administration. The relative bioavailability of PPN was increased about fivefold to sixfold after transdermal administration as compared to oral delivery. This may be due to the avoidance of first pass effect of PPN. The sustained therapeutic activity was due to the controlled release of drug into systemic circulation following transdermal administration.
Expression of c-met tyrosine kinase receptor is biologically and prognostically relevant for primary cutaneous malignant melanomas.	The c-met tyrosine-kinase receptor and its ligand hepatocyte growth factor are involved in cell survival, proliferation, motility, and invasion. Experimental data have suggested a putative role in melanomagenesis and progression of cutaneous malignant melanoma (CMM). We sought to evaluate c-met expression in a cohort of 62 primary CMM patients diagnosed and primarily treated at the same institution.
Expression of hypoxia inducible factor 1 alpha and Von Hippel Lindau protein in human middle ear cholesteatoma.	To evaluate the role of hypoxia in cholesteatoma progression.
Skin epithelial transport and structural relationships in naturally metamorphosing Pelobates syriacus.	The onset of active Na(+) transport and activated Cl(-) conductance (G(Cl)) across the skin epithelium of Pelobates syriacus was investigated during natural ontogenetic development. Structural features, including band three and Peanut lectin bindings were tested in parallel and structure-function relationships were attempted. The 22 specimens studied were divided into two tadpole, three juvenile, and two adult stages, corresponding to the Taylor-Kollros standard table, in accordance with external morphology of their developmental stage. Onset of transepithelial electrical potential and drop in conductance occurred abruptly, coinciding with metamorphosis climax of tadpoles into juveniles at about stage XXI of development. Amiloride-sensitive Na(+) transport occurred a little later at stage XXIII, followed by the appearance of activated Cl(-) conductance, G(Cl). Parallel structural examination showed that skin MR cells occurred upon metamorphosis, as the tadpole integument transformed into the adult epithelium and could be associated with the occurrence of activated G(Cl). It was not related temporally with the appearance of band three protein in MR cells. Our findings support the association of G(Cl) with MR cells, whereas band three may only be a corollary of G(Cl) and not necessarily essential for its manifestation.
Production and resolution of cantharidin-induced inflammatory blisters.	While inflammatory blisters have long been utilized as a means of evaluating antimicrobial disposition to aid in the development of new treatments for skin and skin structure infections, sparse data are available regarding the healing of the blisters once the experiment has been completed. We report the blister induction technique and resolution time in ten volunteers enrolled in a pharmacokinetic study using the cantharidin-induced inflammatory blister technique.
Immunofluorescence studies using skin sections of recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa patients indicated that the antigen of anti-p200 pemphigoid is not a fragment of type VII collagen.	There are a large number of autoimmune bullous diseases, which have distinct autoantibodies. Several reports on cases with IgG autoantibodies against a novel 200 kDa dermal protein have been published, for which we suggested the term, anti-p200 pemphigoid. However, the nature of this 200 kDa antigen has not been well characterized.
Defining the quantitative contribution of the melanocortin 1 receptor (MC1R) to variation in pigmentary phenotype.	The melanocortin 1 receptor (MC1R) is a key determinant of pigmentary phenotype. Several sequence variants of the MC1R have been described, many of which are associated with red hair and cutaneous sensitivity to ultraviolet radiation even in the absence of red hair. Red hair approximates to an autosomal recessive trait, and most people with red hair are compound heterozygote or homozygous for limited numbers of mutations that show impaired function in in vitro assays. There is a clear heterozygote effect on sun sensitivity (even in those without red hair) and with susceptibility to the most common forms of skin cancer.
Malignant fibrous histiocytoma: a proposed cellular origin and identification of its characterizing gene transcripts.	Although malignant fibrous histiocytoma (MFH) is one of the most diffuse and highly aggressive tumors among soft tissue sarcomas in adults, it is poorly characterized from the molecular point of view. The overt lack of expression of phenotypic markers in MFH cells and the hypothesis that MFH may originate from transformed multipotent stem/progenitor cells with mesenchymal features has led us to investigate this notion and search for 'MFH-specific' genes. To address this problem, we have undertaken a differential display-based three-pair comparative mRNA profiling of bone-marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) and cells isolated by primary MFH, leiomyosarcoma and smooth muscle cells, fibrosarcoma and dermal fibroblasts. This approach highlighted pair-wise analogies in gene expression patterns between matched tumor and healthy cells and yielded direct access to 43 genes differentially expressed between MSC and MFH cells. Eleven of the identified genes were selected for comparative evaluation of their expression levels in other sarcoma types, as well as potential markers for the detection of circulating tumor cells. Several of these genes defined the stem/progenitor versus MFH cell and some of them have the potential to be exploited for disclosure of circulating sarcoma cells. The striking similarity in the gene expression patterns observed in the two cell types was further corroborated by a remarkable similarity in the cell phenotypic markers that these cells expressed ex vivo. The findings open now the possibility to examine, also functionally, genes not previously known to be implicated in MFH development and strengthen the hypothesis that MFH originates from a mesenchymal progenitor cell.
The reliability of long-term storage of direct immunofluorescent staining slides at room temperature.	Long-term preservation of immunofluorescence is important for re-examinations. We investigated whether the storage of direct immunofluorescent (DIF)-positive slides at room temperature was reliable in daily practice.
Eruptive melanotic macules and papules associated with adenocarcinoma.	Malignancies may be associated with paraneoplastic cutaneous manifestations, including pigmentary disorders.
Cellular localization of retinoic acid receptor-gamma expression in normal and neoplastic skin.	Retinoids profoundly affect the normal growth and differentiation of epithelial tissues. Retinoic acid receptor-gamma (RAR-gamma) is a member of a family of retinoid receptors, and has been shown to be expressed almost exclusively in skin. However, little is known about the cellular localization of this receptor in human skin. The authors studied the expression of RAR-gamma in normal skin and human skin tumors by Northern blot analysis and in situ hybridization. RAR-gamma mRNA was detected in normal skin as well as in cultures of neonatal keratinocytes. Using an oligonucleotide specific for the RAR-gamma cDNA isoform 1 (RAR-gamma 1), RAR-gamma 1 mRNA was localized to all layers of the epidermis, the outer root sheath of hair follicles, follicular hair bulbs, eccrine and sebaceous glands. Basal cell carcinoma constitutively expressed gamma-1 mRNA and one of seven squamous cell carcinomas showed loss of gamma-1 mRNA expression, relative to adjacent epithelium. By contrast, normal melanocytic nevi and tumor-associated lymphocytes expressed little or no RAR-gamma mRNA. These results suggest that RAR-gamma 1 may play an important role in the maintenance and differentiation of normal epidermis and skin appendages.
Esterification of fatty acids by bovine intramuscular and subcutaneous adipose tissues.	Exogenous fatty acid esterification in intramuscular and subcutaneous adipose tissues from 72-hr fasted or ad libitum fed Angus cattle was investigated. Intramuscular (interfascicular) and subcutaneous adipose tissue snips were obtained from the longissimus dorsi muscle and were incubated with radioisotopically labeled fatty acids (palmitate, stearate, oleate, linoleate or linolenate) at three different concentrations (0.3 mM, 0.6 mM and 2.0 mM) to assess rates of fatty acid incorporation into glycerolipids. Rates of fatty acid esterification in vitro increased with fatty acid concentration in both intramuscular and subcutaneous adipose tissues. For all of the fatty acids investigated, triglycerides were the predominant products (60-85%). Subcutaneous adipose tissue had larger adipocytes and more actively (P less than 0.05) esterified fatty acids, with the exception of palmitate, than intramuscular adipose tissue. The rate of palmitate esterification was not different between tissues, although intramuscular adipose tissue esterified a greater proportion (P less than 0.10) of palmitate as triglyceride (85%) than did subcutaneous adipose tissue (75%). Relative rates of incorporation of fatty acids into lipids in intramuscular and subcutaneous adipose tissues were: palmitate greater than linolenate greater than linoleate greater than stearate. In general, 72-hr fasting did not significantly reduce the rates of fatty acid incorporation in bovine adipose tissues. Results of this study revealed that:i) rates of exogenous fatty acid incorporation into adipose tissue lipids were dependent on the medium fatty acid concentration and adipose tissue depot; and ii) the relative esterification rates of the various fatty acids in vitro did not necessarily reflect the proportion of these fatty acids in bovine adipose tissues.
Oral acitretin in psoriasis: drug and vitamin A concentrations in plasma, skin and adipose tissue.	The purpose of the present study was to determine the concentrations of acitretin and its main metabolite, 13-cis acitretin, in epidermis, subcutis and plasma in twelve psoriatic patients treated with 30 mg acitretin orally daily for 6 months. In addition, endogenous concentrations of vitamin A were monitored. Blood samples and biopsies from normal appearing skin were obtained prior to therapy, after 1 and 6 months of treatment and finally 1 month after cessation of therapy. Using a highly sensitive liquid chromatography method concentrations of synthetic retinoids and endogenous retinoid (retinol, 3,4-didehydroretinol) were analysed in hydrolyzed tissue samples and plasma. Steady-state concentration of acitretin in epidermis (17 +/- 9 ng/g) was reached within 1 month of therapy. There was a significant correlation between the individual plasma trough value and the epidermal concentration of acitretin after 1 month of therapy. The acitretin concentrations in subcutis varied from 15 to 1437 ng/g, but the mean values at 1 and 6 months of therapy were similar (177 and 227 ng/g, respectively). After stopping therapy the acitretin level was below the detection limit in both epidermis and serum within 1 month in 9 out of 12 patients. In contrast, only 3 of the patients were negative for acitretin in subcutis biopsies obtained 1 month after stopping therapy. The occurrence of a presumed tissue contaminator with characteristics similar to 13-cis acitretin prevented quantitation of this metabolite in many subcutis samples. The epidermal, subcutis and serum composition of retinol and 3,4-didehydroretinol remained unchanged during therapy, indicating no or only minimal interaction between acitretin and endogenous vitamin A metabolism.
Effects of intracellular signals on Na+/K(+)-ATPase pump activity in the frog skin epithelium.	The effects of intracellular signals (pHi, Na+i, Ca2+i, and the electrical membrane potential), on Na+ transport mediated by the Na+/K+ pump were investigated in the isolated Rana esculenta frog skin. In particular we focussed on pHi sensitivity since protons act as an intrinsic regulator of transepithelial Na+ transport (JNa) by a simultaneous control of the apical membrane Na+ conductance (gNa) and the basolateral membrane K+ conductance (gK). pHi changes which modify JNa, gNa and gK, do not affect the Na+ transport mediated by the pump as shown by kinetic and electrophysiological studies. In addition, no changes were observed in the number of 3H-ouabain binding sites in acid-loaded epithelia. Our attempts to modify cellular Ca2+ (by using Ca(2+)-free/EGTA Ringer solution or A23187 addition) also failed to produce any significant effects in the Na+ pump turnover rate or the number of 3H-ouabain binding sites. The Na+ pump current was found to be sensitive to the basolateral membrane potential, saturating for very positive (cell) potentials and a reversal potential of -160 mV was calculated from I-V relationships of the pump. Changes in Na+i considerably affected the Na+ pump rate. A saturating relationship was found between pump rate and Nai+ with maximal activation at Nai+ greater than 40 mmol/l; a high dependence of the pump rate and of the number of 3H-ouabain binding sites was observed in the physiological range of Nai+. We conclude that protons (in the physiological pH range) which act directly and simultaneously on the passive transport pathways (gNa and gK), have no direct effect on the Na+/K+ pump rate. After an acid load, the inhibition of JNa is primarily due to the reduction of gNa. This results in a reduction of Nai and the pump turnover rate then becomes dependent on other pathways of Na+ entry such as the basolateral membrane Na+/H+ exchanger.
Cutaneous histamine metabolism in chronic urticaria.	Impaired metabolism of histamine in the skin of patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria (CIU) might explain the observed enhanced and prolonged skin responses to intradermal histamine. Histamine metabolism was measured in homogenates from unaffected forearm skin in nine patients with CIU and in skin of age- and sex-matched control subjects with a radiochromatographic assay, and the results are expressed as nanograms of histamine metabolized per milligram of protein per hour. Endogenous histamine content was determined by RIA. There was a highly significant increase in endogenous histamine content in the skin of patients with urticaria (407.8 +/- 188.3 ng/mg of protein) compared with that in skin of control subjects (240.0 +/- 73.0 ng/mg of protein) (mean +/- 1 SD; p less than 0.02), which suggests either an increase in mast cell number or histamine concentration per cell. No significant difference was observed in the metabolism of histamine between patient and control group; therefore, an alternative mechanism may underlie differences in skin reactivity to histamine.
The effect of human anaphylatoxins and neutrophils on histamine release from isolated human skin mast cells.	The concept of mast cell heterogeneity has been studied extensively. Recently developed techniques to enzymatically disperse skin mast cells from human skin have shown that skin mast cells are somehow different from those of other organs such as lung and intestine. In this report, we have isolated and partially purified human skin mast cells from human neonatal foreskins by collagenase and hyaluronidase digestion. These mast cells are morphologically intact by histological, immunohistochemical and electron microscopic criteria. These human skin mast cells secrete histamine significantly (max. net histamine release, 20-30%) in a dose-related, temperature- and time-dependent fashion following stimulation with purified human C5a and C3a (over the ranges of 5 x 10(-8) M to 10(-7) M and 3 x 10(-7) M to 6 x 10(-6) M, respectively). On the other hand, interactions between human skin mast cells and other leukocytes have long been suspected of playing a very important role in cutaneous inflammation. Recently, a human neutrophil-derived histamine-releasing activity termed HRA-N was partially purified. HRA-N has been shown to cause human and rat basophil leukemia cells to degranulate. This study was also undertaken to assess the ability of HRA-N to directly induce histamine release from isolated human skin mast cells. HRA-N causes dose- and time-dependent histamine release as do human anaphylatoxins. These results suggest that HRA-N may lead to a better comprehension of allergic and inflammatory reactions and their modulation in the skin.
Differential expression of laminin isoforms and beta 4 integrin epitopes in the basement membrane zone of normal human skin and basal cell carcinomas.	The basement membrane zone biology of normal human skin and basal cell carcinomas was explored by indirect immunofluorescence with monoclonal antibodies recognizing five subunit polypeptides of three different laminin isoforms as well as the beta 4 integrin epitopes. The laminin antibodies were specific for A, B1, and B2 chains of classic laminin, for the M chain of merosin, or for the S chain in S-laminin. Immunostaining of normal human skin revealed a strong signal with antibodies for A, B1, and B2 chain epitopes. A weak immunosignal was detected with an anti-M chain antibody, whereas the S-chain epitopes were undetectable, even following pretreatment of sections with hyaluronidase. Thus, the laminin at the epidermal-dermal junction of normal human skin is primarily of the classic type, with some merosin molecules being present. The staining of six nodular basal cell carcinomas revealed the presence of A, B1, and B2 chain epitopes in a linear pattern, but, in contrast to normal skin, the antibody recognizing M-chain epitopes yielded a strong immunosignal, and S-chain epitopes could also be readily detected. Staining for beta 4 integrins, potential receptors for laminin, revealed a strong staining reaction in normal skin as well as in the superficial portions of the basal cell carcinoma. However, the immunofluorescence pattern in the deeper portions of the lesions was scattered and interrupted. Thus, altered composition of the basement membrane of nodular basal cell carcinomas with respect to laminin isoforms and their interactions with putative cell-surface receptors, the beta 4 integrins, may change the containment of the tumor islands, contributing to the local aggressive behavior of basal cell carcinomas.
Potentiation of insulin-like growth factor (IGF) action by IGF-binding protein-3: studies of underlying mechanism.	In this study we investigated the mechanism(s) by which insulin-like growth factor-binding protein-3 (IGFBP-3) potentiates IGF-I action in cultured bovine fibroblasts. Preincubation of cells with glycosylated or nonglycosylated recombinant human IGFBP-3 enhanced responsiveness to IGF-I in a time-dependent manner. A preincubation period of at least 24 h with IGFBP-3 was required to see a significant effect. Pretreatment with IGFBP-3 for 72 h resulted in a 2- to 4-fold augmentation of IGF-I-stimulated [3H]aminoisobutyric acid uptake; IGFBP-3 had no effect on basal [3H]aminoisobutyric acid uptake. During the preincubation period, exogenous IGFBP-3 associated with the fibroblast surface and exhibited time-dependent processing to lower mol wt forms that retained the ability to bind radiolabeled IGF-I. Initial surface adherence (preincubation time of 24 h or less) was readily reversible. However, IGFBP-3, once processed, appeared to be closely associated with the cell. After 72 h of exposure to bovine fibroblasts, cell-associated IGFBP-3 had a 10-fold lower affinity for IGF-I compared to intact IGFBP-3 in solution. In addition, incubation of bovine fibroblasts with IGFBP-3 had modifying effects on type I IGF receptor-mediated signalling because 1) the bioeffectiveness of [Gln3,Ala4,Tyr15,Leu16]IGF-I and insulin, IGF-I receptor activators with little or no affinity for IGFBP-3, was potentiated by preincubation with IGFBP-3; and 2) fibroblast responsiveness to IGF-I analogs with different affinities for the type I IGF receptor was enhanced in direct relation to the ability of the peptide to bind to the receptor. There was no evidence for an increase in receptor number or affinity as a result of IGFBP-3 treatment. These data suggest that IGFBP-3 potentiation of IGF-I action in bovine fibroblasts may involve changes in IGFBP-3 and type I IGF receptor responsiveness. Thus, cell-associated IGFBP-3 may provide a mechanism for optimal presentation of IGF-I to its receptor as well as a means to heighten receptor reactivity to IGF-I and related peptides.
Treatment of acne with topical antibiotics.	The introduction of topical antibiotics for acne vulgaris has ushered in a new era in the treatment of this troublesome disorder. Tetracycline, erythromycin, and clindamycin can now be prepared in lotion form in vehicles that are capable of carrying the antibiotic into the follicular canal, where the primary lesion of acne occurs. Topical antibiotics are practically as effective as oral antibiotics in treating acne and are particularly useful for mild papular acne of puberty and early adolescence and papular-pustular acne of adult women. Use of topical antibiotics avoids the possibility of the adverse effects of systemic therapy; the side effects from the formulations reported here are negligible. Above all, antibiotic lotions do not produce the dryness and scaling that occur with most other topical acne preparations.
A newborn rat model for the study of cerebral hemodynamics by near-infrared spectroscopy and laser-Doppler flowmetry in the immature brain.	An animal model for the study of cerebrovascular physiology in the immature brain was developed. Twelve 3- to 5-day-old rat pups were maintained on spontaneous breathing under light anesthesia for either 1 or 2 h. Transcutaneous carbon dioxide tension and arterial oxygen saturation were monitored. Continuous infusion of doxapram limited respiratory acidosis. Cerebral blood flow (CBF) and volume (CBV) could be monitored by near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) and laser-Doppler flowmetry (LDF) in spite of some movement artifacts. CBV and CBF were 6.0 +/- 0.3 SE ml/100 g and 36.3 +/- 3.1 SE ml/100 g/min, respectively, and remained stable during the study. Cerebrovascular responses, as monitored by LDF and NIRS, to hypoxic and hypercapnic gas mixtures were consistent.
Differential cytokine response in interstitial fluid in skin and serum during experimental inflammation in rats.	Tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) are important mediators produced during inflammation. We hypothesized that the pro-inflammatory cytokine response in the interstitial fluid (IF) is different from that in serum, and we aimed at quantifying the amount of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta in the IF. By centrifugation of rat skin at < 424 g pure IF is extracted. Using ELISA such fluid was analysed for cytokines in back and/or paw skin of pentobarbital-anaesthetized rats, after either induction of endotoxaemia or ischaemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury. During endotoxaemia, TNF-alpha increased in the IF from 0 in control to 640 +/- 100 pg ml(-1) (mean +/-s.e.m.) after 90 min, with the serum concentration being 5-10 times higher at all time points. The response pattern of IL-1beta after lipopolysaccharide (LPS) challenge differed greatly from that of TNF-alpha with a large increase in IF from 390 +/- 90 to 28 000 +/- 1500 pg ml(-1) after 210 min, and a significantly smaller increase in serum (600 +/- 45 pg ml(-1)). During reperfusion of the hind paw after 2 h of ischaemia, there was a gradual increase of TNF-alpha in both IF of the paw skin and serum after 3 min of reperfusion. Both declined after 20 min. The pattern for IL-1beta differed, increasing significantly less in serum (25 +/- 15 pg ml(-1) after 20 min of reperfusion) than in the IF (1100 +/- 200 pg ml(-1)). Immunostaining of the inflamed tissues showed increased expression of the two cytokines in cells of both epidermis and dermis compared to controls. Subdermal injections of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta at the same concentrations found in IF after LPS infusion affected interstitial fluid pressure significantly. Local TNF-alpha production dominates after I/R injury, whereas in endotoxaemia systemic production predominates. For IL-1beta local production dominates in both conditions. Thus, there is a differential pattern of cytokine production and the current method allows the study of the role of cytokines in IF during different inflammatory reactions.
Skin surface glycerol levels in acne vulgaris.	Free glycerol would be expected from biochemical considerations to be an end product of lipolysis of sebum triglycerides. Glycerol was measured in skin surface washings of acne vulgaris patients, in acne vulgaris patients treated for at least 3 mo with oral tetracycline and in control subjects. Surface glycerol in untreated acne subjects was significantly less than that expected theoretically, whereas the amounts of such glycerol in treated acne patients and in control subjects closely approached the theoretically expected values. It is suggested that glycerol may be an in vivo substrate for Propionibacterium acnes.
Multi-species assessment of electrical resistance as a skin integrity marker for in vitro percutaneous absorption studies.	Assessment of percutaneous absorption in vitro provides key information when predicting dermal absorption in vivo. Confirmation of skin membrane integrity is an essential component of the in vitro method, as described in test guideline OECD 428. Historically, assessment of the membrane's permeability to tritiated water (T2O) and the generation of a permeability coefficient (Kp) were used to confirm that the skin membrane was intact prior to application of the test penetrant. Measuring electrical resistance (ER) across the membrane is a simpler, quicker, safer and more cost effective method. To investigate the robustness of the ER integrity measure, the Kp values for T2O for a range of human and animal skin membranes were compared with corresponding ER data. Overall, for human, rat, pig, mouse, rabbit and guinea pig skin, the ER data gave a good inverse association with the corresponding Kp values; the higher the Kp the lower the ER values. In addition, the distribution across a large dataset for individual skin samples was similar for Kp and ER, allowing a cut-off value for ER to be established for each skin type. Based on CTL's (Syngenta Central Toxicology Laboratory) standard static diffusion cells and databridge, we propose that intact skin should have an ER equal to or above (in kOmega): human (10), mouse (5) guinea pig (5), pig (4) rat (3), and rabbit (0.8). We conclude that measurement of ER across in vitro skin membranes provides a robust measurement of skin barrier integrity and is an appropriate alternative to Kp for T2O in order to identify intact membranes that have acceptable permeability characteristics for in vitro percutaneous absorption studies.
In vitro dermal disposition of abamectin (avermectin B(1)) in livestock.	Many avermectins are approved for topical application in domestic animals. However, extralabel use may result in significant dermal absorption and consequently the potential for adverse effects or violative residues. The primary aim of this study was to assess dermal disposition of abamectin in vitro in bovine, caprine, ovine, and porcine skin dosed in 100% isopropanol, commercial alcohol-based (Ivomec), or oil-based (Eprinex) formulations. Skin sections were perfused in a flow-through diffusion cell system for 8 h, and the disposition of radiolabel abamectin was determined from perfusate and skin samples. Abamectin absorption ranged from 0.09% to 0.20% dose and there were no significant differences between formulations in each species. Isopropanol significantly increased skin deposition in all species when compared to the oil formulation. Absorption was significantly greater in bovine skin than in porcine skin for the isopropanol-containing formulations, but there were no significant species differences for the oil formulation. While significant levels (11.69-50.23% dose) remained on the skin surface, the highest levels deposited in viable skin were observed in caprine skin (28.09% dose) and the lowest levels were in porcine skin (1.50% dose) which could lead to systemic absorption. In summary, these 8-h experiments demonstrated that the alcohol-based formulations compared to oil-based formulations enhanced abamectin absorption and skin deposition in several animal species, and this effect is more likely to be observed in ruminant species than in porcine species.
Formation of nitric oxide from nitrous acid in ischemic tissue and skin.	Nitric oxide (NO) can form from nitrous acid under conditions of low pH and formation of the gas N2O3 is the rate-determining step. Published data allow us to calculate the rate at which NO forms from nitrite in a closed system such as circulating blood plasma. Because of the bimolecular reactions involved, and the very low concentration of nitrite, the rate of formation of NO is very slow. It might take at least 12 days, when the pH of nitrite solution is lowered, for the concentration of NO to reach a level sufficiently high to activate guanylyl cyclase and so it seems unlikely that naturally circulating nitrite is involved in vasodilation in ischemic tissue through its conversion into NO. It is more realistic to consider that NO is produced at biologically significant concentrations from nitrite in perspiration on the skin.
Evaluation of the gas regimen in the damaged tissues]	Dynamics of CO2 and oxygen was studied in the skin of 35 patients with open fractures of the crural bones. The results were compared with homeostasis in the whole blood. It was found that immediately after surgery there is marked acydosis, gas regimen of the skin adjacent to the wound is characterized by hypoxia and hypercapnia. By month 2 after the trauma the excessive amount of organic acids was compensated by falling content of CO2, i.e. development of CO2 alkalosis. A complete compensation was not achieved within the treatment period and normalization of acid-base balance in patients was not observed.
Short ultrasound exposure times for noninvasive insulin delivery in rats using the lightweight cymbal array.	The purpose of this study is to demonstrate the feasibility of using short ultrasound exposure times to noninvasively deliver insulin with a lightweight (<22 g), low-profile (37 x 37 x 7 mm3) cymbal array (f = 20 kHz). Using hyperglycemic rats, previous experiments using the array demonstrated that blood glucose would decrease approximately 250 mg/dl from 60 and 20 minutes of pulsed ultrasound exposure for transdermal insulin delivery. Using a similar intensity (Isptp = 100 mW/cm2, 20% duty cycle), the goal was to determine if the same effect can be achieved with only 5 minutes of ultrasound exposure. For these experiments, 20 Sprague Dawley rats were anesthetized and shaved, and a 1-mm watertight standoff reservoir that held the insulin or saline was placed between the rat's abdomen and the ultrasound array. At the beginning of the experiment and every 30 minutes, 0.3 ml of blood was collected from the jugular vein to determine the blood glucose level (milligrams per deciliter) for a total of 90 minutes. For comparison purposes between the rats, the change in the glucose level for each rat was normalized to a baseline (i.e., 0 mg/dl). The first control group used insulin in the reservoir without any ultrasound. The second control group had saline in the reservoir with ultrasound operating at Isptp = 100 mW/cm2 for 60 minutes. For the noncontrol experiments, the third group used insulin with ultrasound exposure for 10 minutes. The last group used insulin with ultrasound operating with a 5-minute exposure to examine the effects of using short ultrasound exposure times on delivery. For the 10- and 5-minute ultrasound exposure groups, the glucose level was found to decrease from the baseline to -174.6 +/- 67.2 and -200.4 +/- 43.4 mg/dl measured after 1 hour, respectively. These results indicated that ultrasound exposure times do not need to be long to deliver a clinically significant insulin dose to reduce a high blood glucose level.
Distribution and expression of transforming growth factor beta and their receptors in hypertrophic scar]	To explore the role of transforming growth factor beta (TGF beta) and their receptors (TGF beta-R) in the pathogenesis of hypertrophic scar.
Pediatric generalized joint hypomobility and musculoskeletal complaints: a new entity? Clinical, biochemical, and osseal characteristics.	To describe the clinical features, osseal characteristics, and collagen biochemistry in children who attended our clinic with predominantly generalized hypomobility of the joints, in combination with musculoskeletal complaints or abnormal walking, and no known syndrome or known rheumatic, neurologic, skeletal, metabolic, or connective tissue disorder was present.
Long-term survival of human skin allografts in patients with immunosuppression.	Severe burn patients lack adequate skin donor sites to resurface their burn wounds. Patients with severe burn injuries to areas such as an entire face are presently reconstructed with skin grafts that are inferior to normal facial skin. This study was designed in part to determine whether human skin allografts would survive, repopulate, and persist on patients with immunosuppression and after discontinuation of immunosuppression. Small split-thickness skin grafts were synchronously transplanted at the time of renal transplantation from six renal transplant donors to recipients. All six patients were immunosuppressed with the usual doses of renal transplant immunosuppressants (methylprednisolone, cyclosporine, prednisone, and azathioprine). The skin allografts were biopsied when rejection was suspected and at various intervals. Special histologic studies were performed on skin biopsy specimens. Class II DNA tissue typing was performed on transplanted and autogenous skin biopsy specimens of four patients. Fluorescent in situ hybridization was performed successfully on skin biopsies of four patients' transplanted skin and on two of these four patients' autogenous skin. All six human skin allografts sustained a 100 percent take and long-term clinical survival. DNA tissue typing performed on skin allograft biopsy specimens from patients taking immunosuppressants all revealed donor and recipient cells. DNA tissue typing performed on autogenous skin biopsies from the same patients all revealed only recipient cells. Fluorescent in situ hybridization performed on allograft and autogenous specimens from patients taking immunosuppressants revealed transplanted donor cells with rare recipient cells in the allograft and only recipient cells in the autogenous skin. This study of six patients proves that it is possible for human skin allografts to survive indefinitely on patients taking the usual dosages of immunosuppressants used for renal transplantation. There was minimal repopulation of skin allografts by autogenous keratinocytes and fibroblast while patients were taking immunosuppressants. Immunosuppression was discontinued in two patients after renal transplant rejection after 6 weeks and 5 years. When immunosuppression was discontinued after 5 years in one patient, the skin allograft cells were destroyed and replaced with autogenous cells, but the skin graft did not reject acutely and persisted clinically. It is hypothesized that the acellular portion of the skin allograft was not rejected acutely because of relatively low antigenicity and because it acted as a lattice for autogenous cells to migrate into and replace rejected allograft skin cells. No chimerism was seen in autogenous skin in the skin-renal transplant patients in this study.
Smad-3 and Smad-7 expression following anti-transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGFbeta1)-treatment in irradiated rat tissue.	Wound healing disorders and the development of fibrosis following surgery in preirradiated tissue are clinically well characterised and may even become more pronounced with increasing use of neoadjuvant radiochemotherapy. The cytokine transforming growth factor beta 1 TGFbeta1 has a key role either in the wound healing process or induction of fibrosis. Following activation of the TGFbeta receptors, intracellular signal transduction is mediated by a variety of Smad proteins. Smad-3 acts as an activator of signal transduction, whereas Smad-7 has an inhibitory effect. This study evaluated the biological effect of neutralizing TGFbeta1 antibodies, the relationship between TGFbeta1 and Smad-3/7 expression and changes of collagen synthesis, following inhibition of TGFbeta1 activity in irradiated rat tissue.
Confocal fluorescence spectroscopy of subcutaneous cartilage expressing green fluorescent protein versus cutaneous collagen autofluorescence.	Optically monitoring the expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP) in the cartilage underlying the skin of a mouse allows tracking the expression of the chondrocyte phenotype. This paper considers how confocal microscopy with spectral detection can sense GFP fluorescence in the cartilage despite light scattering and collagen autofluorescence from the overlying skin. An in vivo experiment tested the abilities of a topical optical fiber measurement and a confocal microscope measurement to detect GFP in cartilage under the skin versus the collagen autofluorescence. An ex vivo experiment tested the ability of a confocal microscope without and with its pinhole to detect a fluorescent microsphere underneath an ex vivo skin layer versus the collagen autofluorescence. In both systems, spectroscopic detection followed by linear analysis allowed spectral discrimination of collagen autofluorescence (M(C)) and the subdermal green fluorescence (M(G)) due to either GFP or the microsphere. Contrast was defined as M(G)/(M(G)+M(C)). The in vivo contrast for GFP using optical fiber and confocal measurements was 0.16 and 0.92, respectively. The ex vivo contrast for a fluorescent microsphere using a confocal system without and with a pinhole was 0.13 and 0.48, respectively. The study demonstrates that a topical optical fiber measurement is affected by collagen autofluorescence, while a confocal microscope can detect subdermal fluorescence while rejecting collagen autofluorescence.
New method for evaluation of in vivo scattering and refractive index properties obtained with optical coherence tomography.	Optical coherence tomography (OCT) provides more parameters than pure morphology does. In a recent paper [A. Knuettel and M. Boehlau-Godau, J. Biomed. Opt. 5(1) 83-92 (2000)] we have shown that the refractive index (RI) can be evaluated in a localized manner in skin tissue under in vivo conditions. Based on a theory, originally developed for light detecting and ranging applications [L. Thrane et al., J. Opt. Soc. Am. A 17(3) 484-490 (2000)], the parameter mean scattering angle (MSA) could be derived in addition to RI. The effects of hydration on MSA and RI have been evaluated in vitro in pigskin and in vivo in human skin with our OCT scanner SkinDex 300. These parameters may have a viable impact in (cosmetic) skin research and clinical diagnoses. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time that (multiple) scattering of light has been quantified through the observation of a new scattering parameter under in vivo conditions.
Calcium ions are abnormally distributed in the skin of haemodialysis patients with uraemic pruritus.	Although a close relationship between uraemic pruritus and serum calcium levels has been demonstrated for some time, the degree of pruritus was not always correlated with calcium concentrations. In the present study, we assessed calcium ion distribution in the skin of chronic haemodialysis patients with and without pruritus.
Transgenic mouse models support HCR as an effector gene in the PSORS1 locus.	Genetic susceptibility for psoriasis is regulated to the greatest extent by the PSORS1 locus. Three psoriasis-associated susceptibility alleles have been identified within it, namely, HLACw6, HCR*WWCC and CDSN*5, but strong linkage disequilibrium between them has made it difficult to distinguish their individual genetic effects, and animal models to study their effects are not known. To study the function of HCR, we engineered transgenic mice with either a non-risk allele of HCR or the HCR*WWCC risk allele under the control of the cytokeratin-14 promoter. These choices were motivated by the apparently dominant effect of PSORS1 on psoriasis susceptibility and the physiological expression of HCR in basal keratinocytes. Transgenic mice appeared phenotypically normal and histologically their skin was indistinguishable from wild-type mice. Expression studies using Affymetrix arrays suggested that the HCR risk allele has specific functional consequences relevant to the pathogenesis of psoriasis. Comparison of gene expression changes between non-risk and risk allele mice revealed similarities to previous observations in human psoriatic skin, including upregulation of cytokeratins 6, 16 and 17 in risk allele mice. We also observed changes in the expression of genes associated with terminal differentiation and formation of the cornified cell envelope. Our results support the concept that HCR may constitute an essential gene in the PSORS1 locus. These observations are also compatible with a model that a susceptibility gene for psoriasis induces changes that are contributory but not sufficient by itself to produce the clinical phenotype.
Advanced glycation end product interventions reduce diabetes-accelerated atherosclerosis.	Advanced glycation end product (AGE) formation may contribute to the progression of atherosclerosis, particularly in diabetes. The present study explored atherosclerosis in streptozotocin-induced diabetic apolipoprotein E-deficient (apoE-/-) mice that were randomized (n = 20) to receive for 20 weeks no treatment, the AGE cross-link breaker ALT-711, or the inhibitor of AGE formation aminoguanidine (AG). A sixfold increase in plaque area with diabetes was attenuated by 30% with ALT-711 and by 40% in AG-treated mice. Regional distribution of plaque demonstrated no reduction in plaque area or complexity within the aortic arch with treatment, in contrast to the thoracic and abdominal aortas, where significant attenuation was seen. Diabetes-associated accumulation of AGEs in aortas and plasma and decreases in skin collagen solubility were ameliorated by both treatments, in addition to reductions in the vascular receptor for AGE. Collagen-associated reductions in the AGEs carboxymethyllysine and carboxyethyllysine were identified with both treatments. Diabetes was also accompanied by aortic accumulation of total collagen, specifically collagens I, III, and IV, as well as increases in the profibrotic cytokines transforming growth factor-beta and connective tissue growth factor and in cellular alpha-smooth muscle actin. Attenuation of these changes was seen in both treated diabetic groups. ALT-711 and AG demonstrated the ability to reduce vascular AGE accumulation in addition to attenuating atherosclerosis in these diabetic mice.
Comparison of the expression of Langerin and 175 kD mannose receptor in antigen-presenting cells in normal human skin and basal cell carcinoma.	The presence of professional antigen-presenting cells in tumours can influence their further spreading. Location of cells exhibiting a specific marker of Langerhans cells--Langerin, and the 175 kD mannose receptor as a marker of dendritic cells of non-Langerhans type and macrophages, was studied using double staining in the normal human epidermis and in basal cell carcinomas. The Langerin-positive cells strictly colonized the epidermis and no cells were found in the dermis, where 175 kD mannose receptor-exhibiting cells were present. Very rare elements in the epidermal/dermal interface were positive for both markers. A low incidence of Langerin-positive cells was found in tumours and 1/3 of studied carcinomas were even Langerhans cell-free. The extraepithelial presence of Langerin-positive cells forming contacts with dendrite-like protrusions of 175 kD mannose receptor-exhibiting cells was found in connective tissue surrounding the tumour epithelium and indicates possible cooperation of both elements.
Membrane association, electrostatic sequestration, and cytotoxicity of Gly-Leu-rich peptide orthologs with differing functions.	The skins of closely related frog species produce Gly-Leu-rich peptide orthologs that have very similar sequences, hydrophobicities, and amphipathicities but differ markedly in their net charge and membrane-damaging properties. Cationic Gly-Leu-rich peptides are hemolytic and very potent against microorganisms. Peptides with no net charge have only hemolytic activity. We have used ancestral protein reconstruction and peptide analogue design to examine the roles of electrostatic and hydrophobic interactions in the biological activity and mode of action of functionally divergent Gly-Leu-rich peptides. The structure and interaction of the peptides with anionic and zwitterionic model membranes were investigated by circular dichroism with 2-dimyristoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphatidylcholine or 1,2-dimyristoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphatidylglycerol vesicles and surface plasmon resonance with immobilized bilayers. The results, combined with antimicrobial assays, the kinetics of bacterial killing, and membrane permeabilization assays, reveal that Gly, Val, Thr, and Ile can all be accommodated in an amphipathic alpha helix when the helix is in a membrane environment. Binding to anionic and zwitterionic membranes fitted to a 2-stage interaction model (adsorption to the membrane followed by membrane insertion). The first step is governed by hydrophobic interactions between the nonpolar surface of the peptide helix and the membranes. The strong binding of Gly-Leu-rich cationic peptides to anionic membranes is due to the second binding step and involves short-range Coulombic interactions that prolong the residence time of the membrane-inserted peptide. The data demonstrate that evolution has positively selected charge-altering nucleotide substitutions to generate an orthologous cationic variant of neutral hemolytic peptides that bind to and permeate bacterial cell membranes.
The parasitic ciliate Ichthyophthirius multifiliis induces expression of immune relevant genes in rainbow trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss (Walbaum).	Abstract During an infection with the parasitic ciliate Ichthyophthirius multifiliis, expression of genes encoding complement factor C3, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), immunoglobulin (IgM) and major histocompatibility complex (MHC-II) was examined in the skin, head kidney and spleen of rainbow trout using semi-quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Induction of C3 transcription levels was evident in the skin and spleen showing extra-hepatic production of C3. MHC-II and IgM levels were increased in both head kidney and skin suggesting a production of antibodies at the site of infection, as well as in the lymphoid organs. iNOS expression was only increased briefly in the skin during the infection. These data suggest that complement is involved in immune reactions against I. multifiliis and that mucosal antibodies might be produced at the site of infection.
Isolation and partial structural evaluation of a cardiotoxic factor from Indian common murrel (Channa striatus L.) skin extract.	It was earlier reported from this laboratory that, Channa striatus, L a common edible fish, whose skin extract (CSSE) was pharmacologicaclly potent and contains several bioactive compounds. In the present communication a cardiotoxic factor was isolated and purified by thin layer chromatography followed by silica gel and neutral alumina column chromatography. Spectroscopic studies (UV, IR, 1H and 13C NMR, FAB-MS) indicated that the lethal cardiotoxic factor (CSS-CTF II) was an aromatic alkaloid compound with -NH, > C = C < and -OH functional groups. The molecular weight was found to be 413 dalton. LD50 of CSS-CTF II was found to be 42.5 mg/kg (i.v) in Swiss albino male mice. Pharmacological studies showed that CSS-CTF II possesses hypotensive and cardiotoxic activities and produced death through apnoea in experimental animals but had no effect on nerve muscle preparations. The haematological and biochemical data also indicated the toxic nature of CSS-CTF II, through significant fall in haemoglobin, total RBC, WBC, platelet count and increased cardiac marker enzyme CPK and CPK-MB value in experimental animals. The present investigation thus established the toxic nature of CSS-CTF II isolated from edible fish C. striatus skin extract. Further work is needed to identify CSS-CTF II's mechanism of action and its antagonism for therapeutic purpose.
Laboratory evaluation of a potential diesel fuel interference in the determination of polycyclic aromatic compounds on dermal samplers.	Road pavers are exposed to asphalt fumes through dermal contact, inhalation, or ingestion. These fumes contain polycyclic aromatic compounds (PACs), a class of compounds including polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs). The PAHs include compounds such as pyrene and benzo(a)pyrene and a large number of other compounds of known or suspected carcinogenicity. To estimate dermal deposition of asphalt fume particulate matter, polypropylene sampling patches can be worn on a worker's inside wrist. Diesel fuel used for cleaning can splash onto the dermal sampler. Exposed dermal patches were solvent extracted and PACs estimated in the extract using a modification of NIOSH Method 5800. The final solution was analyzed by high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) with a fluorescence detector using an excitation wavelength of 270 nanometers and an emission wavelength of 415 nanometers. The PACs were concentrated on a C-18 reverse phase guard column but not separated so that they could be measured expediently as a group. In this study we examined whether deposited diesel fuel interferes with the HPLC determination of PACs. We characterized the effect of diesel fuel contamination over broad ranges of both analyte and interferent. Two drops, or approximately 100 microL, of diesel fuel on the dermal samplers caused an overestimation of the concentration of polycyclic aromatic compounds (PACs). In the range of PACs determined in our field study (0 to 54 microg per sample), these errors could have exceeded 100%. Because 100 microL of deposited diesel fuel produced a clear visual "wetness," this observation can serve as one of the criteria for sample rejection. Sampling media must be examined carefully for visible contamination to prevent bias in the measurement of PACs deposited from asphalt fume.
K16 expression in uninvolved psoriatic skin: a possible marker of pre-clinical psoriasis.	K16, a type I keratin, is upregulated in hyperproliferative states including psoriasis. It has been used as a marker of psoriasis and its expression is upregulated in relapsing psoriasis and downregulating in resolving. We evaluated non-lesional psoriatic skin for K16 expression.
Wipe-test and patch-test for alcohol misuse based on the concentration ratio of fatty acid ethyl esters and squalene CFAEE/CSQ in skin surface lipids.	Fatty acid ethyl esters (FAEE) are known to be formed in blood and almost all human tissues after alcohol consumption and to be incorporated from sebum into hair where they can be used as long-term markers for excessive alcohol consumption. In order to examine whether skin surface lipids which consist mainly of sebum are an equally useful matrix for measurement of FAEE as alcohol abuse markers, samples were collected by a wipe-test from the forehead of 13 teetotallers, 16 social drinkers, 10 death cases with known recent alcohol misuse and five death cases without indications of alcohol misuse. The samples were analysed by headspace solid-phase microextraction and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry for ethyl myristate, ethyl palmitate, ethyl oleate and ethyl stearate and by high performance liquid chromatography with photodiode array detector for squalene, (SQ), as a natural reference substance which the FAEE concentrations were related to. The ratio mFAEE/mSQ ranged between 0.16 and 1.12 ng/microg (mean 0.34 ng/microg) for the teetotallers and between 0.08 and 0.94 ng/microg (mean 0.37 ng/microg) for the social drinkers with no significant difference between both groups. For the alcoholics 2.4-24.2 ng/microg (mean 13.1 ng/microg) were found. For two volunteers the course of mFAEE/mSQ 2 weeks before and 3 weeks after a single high alcohol dose was pursued by daily wipe tests. A strong increase of mFAEE/mSQ occurred between 7 and 12 days after the drinking event. This delay can be explained by the transition time of about 8 days between sebum production and its appearance on the skin surface known from literature. For seven social drinkers skin surface lipid samples were also collected using drug of abuse patches of the firm PharmCheck. The ratios mFAEE/mSQ in these samples were in the same range as from the wipe-test. The comparison with the self-reported ethanol amounts consumed the week before and during the test gave no good correlation (R2 = 0.42). It can be concluded from the results that FAEE in skin surface lipids can be used for medium-term retrospective detection of heavy drinking.
Novel spectroscopic technique for in situ monitoring of collagen fibril alignment in gels.	Development of collagen fibril alignment in contracting fibroblast-populated and externally tensioned acellular collagen gels was studied using elastic scattering spectroscopy. Spectra of the backscattered light (320-860 nm) were acquired with a 2.75-mm source-detector separation probe placed perpendicular to the gel surface and rotated to achieve different angles to the collagen fibril alignment. Backscatter was isotropic for noncontracted/unloaded gels (disorganized matrix). As gels were contracted/externally loaded (collagen alignment developed), anisotropy of backscatter increased: more backscatter was detected perpendicular than parallel to the direction of the fibril alignment. An "anisotropy factor" (AF) was calculated to characterize this effect as the ratio of backscatter intensities at orthogonal positions. Before contraction (or zero strain) the AF was close to unity at all wavelengths. In contrast, at 72 h, backscatter anisotropy varied from AF(400 nm) = 2.14 +/- 0.29 to AF(700 nm) = 3.04 +/- 0.48. It also increased over threefold up to a strain of 20%. The AF strongly correlated with the contraction time/strain. Different directions of the backscatter were detected in gel zones with known differences in the matrix alignment. Thus, backscatter anisotropy allows in situ nondestructive determination of collagen fibril alignment and quantitative monitoring of its development.
Topical tacrolimus therapy for vitiligo: therapeutic responses and skin messenger RNA expression of proinflammatory cytokines.	Previous studies have documented humoral and cell-mediated immunologic defects in patients with vitiligo.
Algae extract protection effect on oxidized protein level in human stratum corneum.	Modification of proteins by reactive oxygen species is implicated in different disorders. The proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase in charge of intracellular protein turnover and of oxidized proteins degradation. Consequently, proteasome function is very important in controlling the level of altered proteins in eukaryotic cells. Evidence for a decline in proteasome activity during skin photo-aging has been provided in Bulteau et al. in 2002. The ability of a lipid algae extract (Phaeodactylum tricornutum) to stimulate 20S proteasome peptidase activities was described by Nizard et al. in 2001. Furthermore, keratinocytes treated with Phaeodactylum tricornutum extract and then UVA and UVB irradiated, exhibited a sustained level of proteasome activity comparable to the one of nonirradiated cells. The level of modified proteins can be quantified by measurement of protein carbonyl content (Oxyblot technique), which has been shown to increase with aging and other disorders. In this paper, it is described that, in the presence of this lipid algae extract, the level of oxidized proteins is reduced, as assessed by the Oxyblot technique. These results are obtained both with culture of human keratinocytes and stratum corneum skin cells (obtained by stripping) from human volunteers. Altogether, these results argue for the presence of compounds in this algae extract that have a stimulating and/or protective effect on proteasome activity, resulting in a decreased level of protein oxidation.
Transcriptional profiling of the scleroderma fibroblast reveals a potential role for connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) in pathological fibrosis.	The cause of fibrotic disease is unknown. We have undertaken transcriptional profiling of dermal fibroblasts cultured from patients with the fibrotic disease scleroderma (systemic sclerosis, SSc) to identify genes overexpressed in fibrosis and have explored their contribution to the fibrotic phenotype. Connective tissue growth factor (CTGF, CCN2), a member of the CCN family of proteins, is overexpressed in SSc fibroblasts. In adult skin, CTGF is not normally expressed in dermal fibroblasts. However, CTGF is induced during the wound healing response and is constitutively overexpressed by fibroblasts present in fibrotic lesions. The overexpression of CTGF present in fibrotic lesions contributes to the phenotype of scleroderma in that CTGF promotes matrix deposition, and fibroblast adhesion and proliferation. In animal models, whereas either TGF beta or CTGF alone produce only a transient fibrotic response, CTGF and TGF beta act together to promote sustained fibrosis. Thus the constitutive overexpression of CTGF by fibroblasts present in fibrotic lesions would be expected to directly contribute to chronic, persistent fibrosis.
Estimation of melanin and hemoglobin in skin tissue using multiple regression analysis aided by Monte Carlo simulation.	To estimate the concentrations of melanin and blood and the oxygen saturation in human skin tissue, we propose a method using a multiple regression analysis aided by a Monte Carlo simulation for diffuse reflectance spectra from the skin tissue. By using the absorbance spectrum as a response variable and the extinction coefficients of melanin, oxygenated hemoglobin, and deoxygenated hemoglobin as predictor variables, the multiple regression analysis gives regression coefficients. The concentrations of melanin and blood are determined from the regression coefficients using conversion vectors that are estimated numerically in advance, while the oxygen saturation is obtained directly from the regression coefficients. Numerical and experimental investigations were performed for layered skin tissue models and phantoms. Measurements of human skin were also carried out to monitor variations in the melanin and blood contents and oxygenation during cuff occlusion. The results confirmed the usefulness of the proposed method.
The Tinsley LCR Databridge Model 6401 and electrical impedance measurements to evaluate skin integrity in vitro.	Electrical impedance is used to confirm skin integrity for in vitro dermal regulatory testing and as a tool to evaluate skin condition to determine the irritation and corrosion potential of various chemicals and personal care products. In this experiment, samples of dermatomed human skin were mounted onto static diffusion cells (0.64 cm2) maintained at 32 degrees C. Following equilibration with 0.9% saline in the donor and receptor chambers, an impedance measurement was taken with a Tinsley LCR Databridge Model 6401 set in the resistance mode (R) and in (a) the serial-equivalent mode (SER) with an alternating current (AC) frequency of 100 hertz (Hz), (b) SER and 1000 Hz, (c) parallel-equivalent mode (PAR) and 100 Hz, and (d) PAR and 1000 Hz. With the databridge set in the SER-equivalent mode and an AC frequency of 1000 Hz, the minimum (7.2 kOmega), maximum (10.0 kOmega), and median (8.6 kOmega) impedance values exhibited a limited response range (2.8 kOmega). However, when the Tinsley 6401 was set in the PAR-equivalent mode at the lower AC frequency of 100 Hz the minimum (16.7 kOmega), maximum (134.6 kOmega), median (83.2 kOmega), and range (117.9 kOmega) of values were the highest obtained. The results confirm that the operator-selected settings on the Tinsley LCR Databridge Model 6401 affect the impedance measurement and the dynamic range of values observed for dermatomed human skin in vitro.
Cue reactivity in smokers: the effects of perceived cigarette availability and gender.	We examined the effects of perceived cigarette availability and gender on smoking cue reactivity. Smokers were exposed to smoking cues (smoking paraphernalia) and control cues whilst their subjective and physiological responses were measured. Perceived cigarette availability was manipulated on a between-subjects basis before cue exposure. Relative to control cues, smoking cues evoked increases in the level of skin conductance in all participants. Cigarette craving was also increased in the presence of smoking cues, but only in female participants. Perceived cigarette availability had no effect on these responses. Participants also showed salivary reactivity to smoking cues, with males showing a decrease in salivation, and females showing an increase, but only when cigarettes were perceived as unavailable. These results suggest that perceived cigarette availability may not influence craving and skin conductance reactivity to smoking cues in minimally dependent smokers who are not nicotine deprived. In addition, the present data suggest that there are important gender differences in craving reactivity to smoking cues.
Evidence for a critical contribution of haploinsufficiency in the complex pathogenesis of Marfan syndrome.	Marfan syndrome is a connective tissue disorder caused by mutations in the gene encoding fibrillin-1 (FBN1). A dominant-negative mechanism has been inferred based upon dominant inheritance, mulitimerization of monomers to form microfibrils, and the dramatic paucity of matrix-incorporated fibrillin-1 seen in heterozygous patient samples. Yeast artificial chromosome-based transgenesis was used to overexpress a disease-associated mutant form of human fibrillin-1 (C1663R) on a normal mouse background. Remarkably, these mice failed to show any abnormalities of cellular or clinical phenotype despite regulated overexpression of mutant protein in relevant tissues and developmental stages and direct evidence that mouse and human fibrillin-1 interact with high efficiency. Immunostaining with a human-specific mAb provides what we believe to be the first demonstration that mutant fibrillin-1 can participate in productive microfibrillar assembly. Informatively, use of homologous recombination to generate mice heterozygous for a comparable missense mutation (C1039G) revealed impaired microfibrillar deposition, skeletal deformity, and progressive deterioration of aortic wall architecture, comparable to characteristics of the human condition. These data are consistent with a model that invokes haploinsufficiency for WT fibrillin-1, rather than production of mutant protein, as the primary determinant of failed microfibrillar assembly. In keeping with this model, introduction of a WT FBN1 transgene on a heterozygous C1039G background rescues aortic phenotype.
Antithrombotic activity of dermatan sulfate in heparin cofactor II-deficient mice.	Heparin cofactor II (HCII) is a plasma protein that inhibits thrombin rapidly in the presence of dermatan sulfate or heparin. We previously reported that the time to thrombotic occlusion of the carotid artery after photochemical injury was shorter in HCII-deficient mice than in wild-type control animals. In this paper, we describe the antithrombotic activity of dermatan sulfate in wild-type and HCII-deficient mice. Intravenous administration of porcine skin dermatan sulfate induced a dose-dependent prolongation of the carotid artery occlusion time in HCII(+/+) mice that was not observed in HCII(-/-) animals. Pharmacokinetic studies suggested that porcine skin dermatan sulfate expresses antithrombotic activity after being transferred from the plasma to sites in the vessel wall. Using invertebrate dermatan sulfate preparations, we showed that N-acetylgalactosamine-4-O-sulfate residues are required for the HCII-dependent antithrombotic effect. Furthermore, the invertebrate dermatan sulfates, which have higher charge densities than mammalian dermatan sulfate, slightly prolonged the thrombotic occlusion time of HCII(-/-) mice. These results indicate that HCII mediates the antithrombotic effect of porcine skin dermatan sulfate after injury to the carotid arterial endothelium in mice, whereas more highly charged dermatan sulfates possess weak antithrombotic activity independent of HCII.
Studies of cultured human fibroblasts in diabetes mellitus: changes in heparan sulfate.	The incorporation of [35S]sulfate into glycosaminoglycans was studied in cultures of normal and diabetic skin fibroblasts. Heparan sulfate was determined by column chromatography after enzymatic degradation of chondroitin sulfates and dermatan sulfate by chondroitinase ABE. Cultured skin fibroblasts from both insulin-dependent and noninsulin-dependent diabetics were found to have increased proportions of heparan sulfate in the media relative to the other sulfated glycosaminoglycans.
Presence of CD16 on endothelial cells in heart transplant rejection: an immunohistochemical study.	We studied the distribution of Fc gamma RIII (CD16) in human lymphoid and non-lymphoid tissue by immunohistochemistry and two-colour immunofluorescence. In all tissues except stomach, skin, muscle and heart, infiltrating cells were stained. In tonsil and thymus, the CD16 antibody CLBgran 1 labelled some cells with high endothelial morphology in T-cell areas. Two-colour fluorescence combination of CD16 and antibody to Von Willebrand factor confirmed the endothelial nature of the CLB gran 1-positive cells. Fc gamma RIII expression was also demonstrated by antibody CLBgran11, which detects a product of the Fc gamma RIII-B gene of only the NA1 haplotype. A series of 95 endomyocardial biopsies (EMB) taken after heart transplantation was evaluated for Fc gamma RIII expression. In 18 cases Fc gamma RIII was unambiguously detected on endothelial cells by CD16 antibody CLBgran1. There was a significant correlation between capillary CD16 expression and transplant rejection. We conclude that Fc gamma R expression on endothelium represents endothelial activation found in immunopathological and inflammatory conditions.
Type V collagen controls the initiation of collagen fibril assembly.	Vertebrate collagen fibrils are heterotypically composed of a quantitatively major and minor fibril collagen. In non-cartilaginous tissues, type I collagen accounts for the majority of the collagen mass, and collagen type V, the functions of which are poorly understood, is a minor component. Type V collagen has been implicated in the regulation of fibril diameter, and we reported recently preliminary evidence that type V collagen is required for collagen fibril nucleation (Wenstrup, R. J., Florer, J. B., Cole, W. G., Willing, M. C., and Birk, D. E. (2004) J. Cell. Biochem. 92, 113-124). The purpose of this study was to define the roles of type V collagen in the regulation of collagen fibrillogenesis and matrix assembly. Mouse embryos completely deficient in pro-alpha1(V) chains were created by homologous recombination. The col5a1-/- animals die in early embryogenesis, at approximately embryonic day 10. The type V collagen-deficient mice demonstrate a virtual lack of collagen fibril formation. In contrast, the col5a1+/- animals are viable. The reduced type V collagen content is associated with a 50% reduction in fibril number and dermal collagen content. In addition, relatively normal, cylindrical fibrils are assembled with a second population of large, structurally abnormal collagen fibrils. The structural properties of the abnormal matrix are decreased relative to the wild type control animals. These data indicate a central role for the evolutionary, ancient type V collagen in the regulation of fibrillogenesis. The complete dependence of fibril formation on type V collagen is indicative of the critical role of the latter in early fibril initiation. In addition, this fibril collagen is important in the determination of fibril structure and matrix organization.
SOX9-dependent and -independent transcriptional regulation of human cartilage link protein.	Cartilage link protein is a key component of the cartilage extracellular matrix. The transcriptional regulation of the gene encoding cartilage link protein (CRTL1) is largely unknown, however. Here, we investigated the regulation of CRTL1 by SOX9, a key regulator of cartilage matrix genes and chondrogenesis. Knockdown of SOX9 resulted in decreased CRTL1 expression. SOX9 induced CRTL1 expression effectively in human non-chondrocytic immortalized cell lines as well as in mesenchymal stem cell and adult dermal fibroblast. These results indicate that, like other cartilage matrix genes, SOX9 is a key regulator of CRTL1. Unlike other cartilage matrix genes, however, the activation of CRTL1 by SOX9 and its known transcriptional co-activators L-SOX5 and SOX6 was cell type-dependent. Two cis-acting enhancer elements resided in the 5'-untranslated region of CRTL1. One contained a heptameric SOX binding sequence and showed SOX9-dependent enhancer activity in several cell lines. The other showed cell type-specific SOX9-independent enhancer activity. These findings suggest that the enhancer elements may mediate differential expression of CRTL1 during chondrocyte differentiation and maturation.
Protein kinase C epsilon signals ultraviolet light-induced cutaneous damage and development of squamous cell carcinoma possibly through Induction of specific cytokines in a paracrine mechanism.	Protein kinase C (PKC), a family of phospholipid-dependent serine/threonine kinases, is not only the major intracellular receptor for the mouse skin tumor promoter 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) but also is activated by a variety of stress factors including ultraviolet radiation (UVR). PKCepsilon is among six isoforms (alpha, delta, epsilon, eta, mu and zeta) expressed in the mouse skin. To determine the in vivo functional specificity of PKCepsilon in mouse skin carcinogenesis, we generated PKCepsilon transgenic mouse (FVB/N) lines 224 and 215 that overexpress PKCepsilon protein approximately 8- and 18-fold, respectively, over endogenous levels in the basal epidermal cells and cells of the hair follicle. PKCepsilon transgenic mice were observed to be highly sensitive to the development of papilloma-independent metastatic squamous cell carcinoma (mSCC) elicited either by repeated exposure to UVR or by the 7,12-Dimethylbenzanthracene-TPA tumor promotion protocol. The development of squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) appears to be linked to the PKCepsilon-mediated induction of cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha(TNFalpha). Immunohistochemical analysis for the expression of PKCepsilon in the SCC of PKCepsilon transgenic mice revealed that PKCepsilon was not expressed in the tumor itself; however, the uninvolved tissue surrounding the SCC exhibited intense PKCepsilon expression. Also, human SCC, similar to mouse SCC, did not express PKCepsilon in the tumor, whereas the surrounding uninvolved epidermis revealed strong PKCepsilon expression. These findings in both the PKCepsilon mouse model and human SCC indicate that overexpression of PKCepsilon in epidermis may lead to a microenvironment, which is suitable for enhancing the development of mSCC by a paracrine mechanism involving specific cytokines including TNFalpha.
Human P-selectin glycoprotein ligand-1 (PSGL-1) interacts with the skin-associated chemokine CCL27 via sulfated tyrosines at the PSGL-1 amino terminus.	P-selectin glycoprotein ligand-1 (PSGL-1), a sialomucin expressed on leukocytes, is a major ligand for P-selectin and mediates leukocyte rolling on the endothelium. Here we show that human PSGL-1 interacts with CCL27 (CTACK/ILC/ESkine), a skin-associated chemokine that attracts skin-homing T lymphocytes. A recombinant soluble form of PSGL-1 (rPSGL-Ig) preferentially bound CCL27 among several chemokines tested. This interaction was abrogated by arylsulfatase treatment of rPSGL-Ig, suggesting that sulfated tyrosines play a critical role. In contrast, removal of either N-glycans or O-glycans by glycosidase treatment of rPSGL-Ig did not affect the interaction. The binding of CCL27 to a recombinant PSGL-1 synthesized in the presence of a sulfation inhibitor was lower than that produced in normal medium. Moreover, mutation of the tyrosines at the amino terminus of PSGL-1 to phenylalanine abolished the binding, further supporting the role of sulfated tyrosines in the CCL27-PSGL-1 interaction. Functionally, rPSGL-Ig reduced the chemotaxis of L1.2 cells expressing CCR10, the receptor for CCL27. In addition, the expression of human PSGL-1 on CCR10-expressing L1.2 cells resulted in reduced chemotaxis to CCL27. These findings suggest a role for PSGL-1 in regulating chemokine-mediated responses, in addition to its role as a selectin ligand.
Proteomic approach to identify acute phase response-related proteins with low molecular weight in loach skin following injury.	Proteome analysis by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) together with mass spectrometry was applied to screen acute phase response (APR)-related proteins with low molecular weight in loach skin following injury. Furthermore, Western blotting and function tests were applied to confirm the results obtained from the proteomic study. Fifteen APR-related proteins with sixteen spots (PLA with two spots) on a 2-DE map were identified in this study. Furthermore, six were known acute phase proteins including galactose-binding lectin (GBL), lysozyme, C3, CD59, double PLA and 50s ribosomal protein; while ATP kinase, zinc finger protein 183, alpha-neurotoxin homology, angiostatin, serine/threonine kinase, metalloproteinase inhibitor, regulator of G-protein 4, cryptdin-9 and disintegrin trigranin were found by our lab to be APR-related proteins. In addition, our results suggest that proteomes with low molecular weight can be characterized by 2-DE with a Tris-tricine system followed by mass spectrometry.
Electroporative transfection with KGF-1 DNA improves wound healing in a diabetic mouse model.	We recently demonstrated that electroporation enhances transfection in a mouse wound-healing model. Keratinocyte growth factor (KGF) is an inducer of epithelial cell proliferation and differentiation and has been shown to be under expressed in the wounds of diabetic individuals. We hypothesized that KGF delivered into an excisional wound via naked DNA injection with subsequent electroporation would be a novel and potentially effective method to enhance wound closure in a diabetic mouse model. ELISA assays confirmed production of KGF protein in cultured mouse cells and RT-PCR assays confirmed KGF mRNA in skin samples taken from mice. In all, 32 genetically diabetic mice were given two identical excisional wounds of their dorsum and split into two groups with one group receiving KGF DNA injection and electroporation with the other group receiving no treatment. Over 90% of wounds healed in the presence of KGF and electroporation versus 40% in the untreated group by day 12. Histological analysis of the wounds demonstrated that untreated wounds contained microulcers with thin or incomplete epithelium with unresolved inflammation as compared to treated wounds where intact and mature epithelium was observed. Taken together these findings suggest that a single injection of KGF DNA encoded on a plasmid coupled with electroporation improves and accelerates wound closure in a delayed wound-healing model.
Antitumor promotional effects of a novel intestinal bacterial metabolite (IH-901) derived from the protopanaxadiol-type ginsenosides in mouse skin.	Epidemiological studies have demonstrated that ginseng intake decreases the risk of cancer. Ginseng saponins (ginsenosides) have been regarded as principal components responsible for the majority of pharmacological activities exerted by ginseng. IH-901 [20-O-beta-d-glucopyranosyl-20(S)-protopanaxadiol], an intestinal bacterial metabolite derived from protopanaxadiol-type saponins of Panax ginseng C.A. Meyer, has been reported to possess antitumor effects, including inhibition of invasion, metastasis and angiogenesis and induction of tumor cell apoptosis. Tumor promotion often accompanies an elevated ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity, acute inflammation and induction of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) activity. Here we examined the effects of IH-901 on tumor promotion and related molecular events in mouse skin in vivo. Mouse ear edema induced by the prototype tumor promoter 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) was repressed by IH-901 pre-treatment in a dose-dependent manner. Topical application of IH-901 onto shaven backs of female ICR mice led to the inhibition of TPA-induced expression of COX-2 and production of prostaglandin E(2). The eukaryotic transcription factor NF-kappaB has been involved in intracellular signaling pathways associated with inflammation and carcinogenesis. IH-901 pre-treatment inhibited TPA-induced epidermal NF-kappaB DNA binding in mouse skin, which appeared to be mediated by blocking phosphorylation and subsequent degradation of IkappaBalpha. In an attempt to elucidate the molecular mechanisms by which IH-901 inactivates NF-kappaB, its effects on activation of upstream signaling kinases were explored. IH-901 also inhibited the activation of ERK1/2 and Akt signaling. When IH-901 was treated topically prior to TPA, expression and activity of ODC were inhibited dose-dependently. In addition, IH-901 given prior to each topical dose of TPA markedly lowered the number of papillomas in mouse skin induced by 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene. Taken together, these findings suggest that IH-901 exerts anti-inflammatory effects by inhibiting TPA-induced COX-2 expression, which may contribute to its antitumor-promoting effects on mouse skin carcinogenesis.
Vascular endothelial growth factor promotes sensitivity to ultraviolet B-induced cutaneous photodamage.	Acute ultraviolet B (UVB) irradiation of the skin results in erythema, vasodilation, edema, and angiogenesis, which is associated with the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) by epidermal keratinocytes. It is unclear, however, whether VEGF is required for the damage or repair process that occurs in the skin on UVB exposure. We subjected transgenic mice that overexpress VEGF, and their wild-type littermates, to graded doses of acute UVB irradiation. The skin of VEGF-overexpressing mice was highly photosensitive and became erythematic when exposed to half the UVB dose required to induce erythema in wild-type mice. Erythema was associated with proliferating dermal endothelial cells, cutaneous edema, and inflammatory cell infiltration. When subjected to 10 weeks of low-level UVB irradiation, no major changes were observed in wild-type mice, whereas VEGF transgenic mice developed skin damage associated with degradation of the dermal matrix and enhanced vascularization. Systemic treatment with an anti-VEGF blocking antibody reduced the sensitivity of wild-type mice to acute UVB irradiation without inhibiting post-UVB repair. Our results reveal that VEGF promotes the cutaneous damage that occurs after UVB exposure and that the VEGF signaling pathway might serve as a novel target for the prevention of UVB-induced photodamage.
Noninvasive transcutaneous bilirubin as a screening test to identify the need for serum bilirubin assessment.	Hyperbilirubinemia is a common problem in the newborn infant. It can progress to develop kernicterus unless intervention is initiated. Severity and decision for management are usually based on serum bilirubin (TsB) which needs blood sampling. Transcutaneous bilirubin measurement is a noninvasive technique and the result correlates closely with TsB. A new transcutaneous bilirubinometer, Minolta AirShields Jaundice Meter, JM103, has been introduced The objectives of this study were: 1) To evaluate the accuracy of transcutaneous bilirubin (TcB) measured by JM 103, when compared to TsB, used clinically in a hospital setting (Leica Unistat Bilirubinometer) and 2) To develop a cut-off point of TcB level which indicated the need for serum bilirubin assessment. Three hundred and eighty eight term and near-term newborn infants with 460 paired TcB-TsB specimens were studied from August to November 2003. Birth weight was 3117.57 +/- 424.82 grams. TsB ranged from 4 to 19.6 mg/dL (x 10.5, SD 2.46). The correlation coefficient between TcB and TsB was significant (r 0.8, p < 0.001). TcB showed a tendency to underestimate TsB, with mean difference of 0.7 mg/dL, SD 1.6 mg/dL, and 95% confidence interval 0.85 and 0.55 mg/dL. TcB values of 8, 9, 10, 12 mg/dL were chosen as cut-off points that indicated the need for blood sampling for TsB (corresponded to hour-specific levels of 10, 12, 13 and 15 mg/dL, respectively when phototherapy should be initiated). In conclusion, noninvasive TcB assessment demonstrates significant accuracy, compared to TsB. It can be used as a screening test to identify the need for blood sampling for serum bilirubin level.
Determination of 4-amino-m-cresol and 5-amino-o-cresol by high performance liquid chromatography and fluorescence derivatization using fluorescamine.	For the determination of two oxidation hair dyes, 4-amino-m-cresol (4-AC) and 5-amino-o-cresol (5-AC), a sensitive isocratic high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method using the reversed phase mode was developed. The hair dyes were pre-column derivatized with fluorescamine prior to injection. Sensitivity could be improved 10-fold for 4-AC and 50-fold for 5-AC by fluorescence detection compared to UV detection. The limit of detection was 1 ng/injection for 4-AC and 100 pg/injection for 5-AC, respectively. For the determination of both compounds in aqueous biological matrices in order to simulate conditions for penetration studies with pig skin, a solid phase extraction procedure using C18 cartridges and acetonitrile (ACN) for elution could be developed. Average recovery was 83.4% with a coefficient of variation (CV) of 2.64% for intra-day assay and 3.20% for inter-day assay for 5-AC and 2.89% and 3.41% for 4-AC, respectively.
Pharmacokinetics of telithromycin in plasma and soft tissues after single-dose administration to healthy volunteers.	By use of microdialysis we assessed the concentrations of telithromycin in muscle and adipose tissue to test its ability to penetrate soft tissues. The ratios of the area under the concentration-versus-time curve from 0 to 24 h to the MIC indicated that free concentrations of telithromycin in tissue and plasma might be effective against Streptococcus pyogenes but not against staphylococci and human and animal bite pathogens.
Penetration of microparticles into human skin]	The efficacy of the penetration of microparticles into the human skin depends on the size and the type of the formulation with which they are topically applied. Microparticles with a diameter of >1 microm barely penetrate into the human skin. They are located on the skin surface and form a film which, for instance, can be used for camouflage or protection against UV radiation in sunscreens. While the penetration of the microparticles in the lipid layers of the stratum corneum is limited, they penetrate efficiently into the hair follicles up to a depth >2 mm, providing their diameter is <1.5 microm. Thus, microparticles can be used for drug delivery into the hair follicles.
Raman spectroscopy of in vivo cutaneous melanin.	We successfully acquire the in vivo Raman spectrum of melanin from human skin using a rapid near-infrared (NIR) Raman spectrometer. The Raman signals of in vivo cutaneous melanin are similar to those observed from natural and synthetic eumelanins. The melanin Raman spectrum is dominated by two intense and broad peaks at about 1580 and 1380 cm(-1), which can be interpreted as originating from the in-plane stretching of the aromatic rings and the linear stretching of the C-C bonds within the rings, along with some contributions from the C-H vibrations in the methyl and methylene groups. Variations in the peak frequencies and bandwidths of these two Raman signals due to differing biological environments have been observed in melanin from different sources. The ability to acquire these unique in vivo melanin signals suggests that Raman spectroscopy may be a useful clinical method for noninvasive in situ analysis and diagnosis of the skin.
Adenylosuccinate lyase deficiency: study of physiopathologic mechanism(s).	Nucleotide concentrations were normal in adenylosuccinate lyase-deficient fibroblasts, and the succinylpurines were not toxic for cultured neuronal cells.
C/EBPalpha is a DNA damage-inducible p53-regulated mediator of the G1 checkpoint in keratinocytes.	The basic leucine zipper transcription factor, CCAAT/enhancer binding protein alpha (C/EBPalpha), is abundantly expressed in keratinocytes of the skin; however, its function in skin is poorly characterized. UVB radiation is responsible for the majority of human skin cancers. In response to UVB-induced DNA damage, keratinocytes activate cell cycle checkpoints that arrest cell cycle progression and prevent replication of damaged DNA, allowing time for DNA repair. We report here that UVB radiation is a potent inducer of C/EBPalpha in human and mouse keratinocytes, as well as in mouse skin in vivo. UVB irradiation of keratinocytes resulted in the transcriptional up-regulation of C/EBPalpha mRNA, producing a >70-fold increase in C/EBPalpha protein levels. N-Methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine, etoposide, and bleomycin also induced C/EBPalpha. UVB-induced C/EBPalpha was accompanied by an increase in p53 protein and caffeine, an inhibitor of ataxia-telangiectasia-mutated kinase, and ataxia-telangiectasia-mutated and Rad3-related kinase inhibited UVB-induced increases in both C/EBPalpha and p53. UVB irradiation of p53-null or mutant p53-containing keratinocytes failed to induce C/EBPalpha. UVB irradiation of C/EBPalpha knockdown keratinocytes displayed a greatly diminished DNA damage G(1) checkpoint, and this was associated with increased sensitivity to UVB-induced apoptosis. Our results uncover a novel role for C/EBPalpha as a p53-regulated DNA damage-inducible gene that has a critical function in the DNA damage G(1) checkpoint response in keratinocytes.
Visualisation of tissue kallikrein, kininogen and kinin receptors in human skin following trauma and in dermal diseases.	During dermal injury and inflammation the serine proteases kallikreins cleave endogenous, multifunctional substrates (kininogens) to form bradykinin and kallidin. The actions of kinins are mediated by preferential binding to constitutively expressed kinin-B2 receptors or inducible kinin-B1 receptors. A feature of the kinin-B1 receptors is that they show low levels of expression, but are distinctly upregulated following tissue injury and inflammation. Because recent evidence suggested that kinin-B1 receptors may perform a protective role during inflammation, we investigated the specific occurrence of the kallikrein-kinin components in skin biopsies obtained from normal skin, patients undergoing surgery, basalioma, lichenificated atopic eczema, and psoriasis. The tissue was immunolabeled in order to determine the localisation of tissue pro-kallikrein, kallikrein, kininogen and kinin receptors. The kinin components were visualised in normal, diseased and traumatised skin, except that no labelling was observed for kininogen in normal skin. Of the five types of tissue examined, upregulation of kinin-B1 receptors was observed only in skin biopsies obtained following surgery. In essence, the expression of kinin-B1 receptors did not appear to be enhanced in the other biopsies. Within the multiple steps of the inflammatory cascade in wound healing, our results suggest an important regulatory role for kinin-B1 receptors during the first phase of inflammation following injury.
Mitochondrial DNA instability in malignant melanoma of the skin is mostly restricted to nodular and metastatic stages.	Ultraviolet (UV) radiation is thought to be a major contributor to the development of sporadic malignant melanoma of the skin. It may induce alterations in genomic or mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), especially C to T or CC to TT changes. Mutations or other alterations in mtDNA have been reported in a variety of human cancers and may be due to different mechanisms. In this study, we have attempted to elucidate whether aberrations in the mtDNA of melanoma are due to UV radiation or other factors by investigating two parts of the mitochondrial D-loop and two mitochondrial genes, as well as looking for the delta4977 mtDNA deletion and mtDNA duplications, in 61 primary malignant melanomas and neighbouring normal skin tissue (in 70% of primary tumours; otherwise, corresponding blood samples). Point mutations were a rare feature, occurring in only seven tumour samples and never as a C to T change, whereas mtDNA instability in the D-loop (mtMSI) was found in 13% of primary nodular tumours and 20% of metastases. A de novo delta4977 mtDNA deletion was demonstrated in 10% of melanomas; in 20% of patients, mtDNA duplications and/or the delta4977 mtDNA deletion was detectable. Our data indicate that mtDNA alterations in malignant melanoma are not induced by UV radiation. In addition, point mutations and mtMSI were mostly a feature of nodular and metastatic melanoma samples.
Ultraviolet irradiation induces Smad7 via induction of transcription factor AP-1 in human skin fibroblasts.	Smad7 functions as an endogenous negative regulator of transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta)/SMAD signaling. The TGF-beta/SMAD pathway is a major regulator of collagen production in connective tissue. Reduced expression of SMAD7 has been reported in TGF-beta-mediated fibrotic diseases, characterized by overproduction of collagen. Solar ultraviolet (UV) irradiation reduces collagen production by fibroblasts in human skin in vivo. We have investigated regulation of Smad7 gene expression by UV irradiation in human skin fibroblasts. UV irradiation transiently increased SMAD7 mRNA and protein levels. Induction of SMAD7 mRNA and protein was maximal within 5 h and returned to initial basal levels 24 h post-UV irradiation. UV irradiation induced Smad7 promoter-reporter activity 3-fold. The Smad7 promoter contains functional enhancer sequences that bind transcription factors SMAD3 and activator protein-1 (AP-1). UV irradiation reduced protein binding to the Smad3 enhancer and increased binding to the AP-1 enhancer. Deletion of the AP-1 binding site in the Smad7 promoter completely abolished UV stimulation of SMAD7 transcription. Deletion of the Smad3 element had no effect on UV irradiation-induced promoter activity. UV irradiation increased mRNA and protein expression of the AP-1 family members, c-Jun and c-Fos, which bound to the AP-1 element in the Smad7 promoter. Furthermore, overexpression of dominant negative c-Jun substantially reduced UV irradiation induction of SMAD7 transcription. These data demonstrate that induction of Smad7 gene expression by UV irradiation is mediated via induction of the transcription factor AP-1 in human skin fibroblasts.
Tretinoin treatment before carbon-dioxide laser resurfacing: a clinical and biochemical analysis.	Tretinoin is often prescribed before laser resurfacing in an attempt to enhance results.
Amplification of proopiomelanocortin mRNA in canine skin: preliminary results.	Skin and pituitary specimens were obtained from a normal chow-chow cross-bred dog. Total messenger RNA (mRNA) was extracted, reversed transcribed and the proopiomelanocortin (POMC) mRNA was amplified by polymerase chain reaction using canine specific primers. The expected 391 bp amplification product was detected in both canine skin and pituitary samples. Sequencing of this product showed 100% homology to the GenBank sequence for canine PMOC cDNA, and confirmed its remarkable homology to sequences of human, pigtailed macaque, mink, pig, mouse, rat and cow POMC. These preliminary results suggest that transcription of POMC mRNA occurs in canine skin. The nature of resident or nonresident cells transcribing the POMC gene in canine skin remains unknown at this time.
Construction of skin equivalents for gene therapy of recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa.	We have shown that retroviral vectors efficiently transfer the 9-kb collagen type VII cDNA into keratinocytes of dogs with recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa (RDEB) and achieve correction of the RDEB phenotype in vitro. As a next step toward gene therapy applications, we have assessed the suitability of retroviral vectors to transduce human collagen type VII cDNA into primary human RDEB keratinocytes and generate transplantable autologous skin equivalents. The transduced RDEB keratinocytes permanently express high levels of recombinant collagen type VII that assembles into functional homotrimers readily secreted into the extracellular matrix. The recombinant collagen type VII reverts the migration and invasion potential of the transduced RDEB keratinocytes in vitro and is efficiently deposited at the dermal epidermal junction of artificial skin prepared with the reverted cells and artificial dermis made of biomaterial sponges embedded with dermal RDEB fibroblasts. Transplantable fibrin-based skin equivalents made with the transduced RDEB keratinocytes and grafted onto SCID mice either orthotopically or in accordance with the flap method generated cohesive and orderly stratified epithelia with all the characteristics of normal human epidermis, including rapid formation of anchoring fibrils. Because transplantable epithelia are routinely used to cure patients suffering from large skin or mucosal defects, the full phenotypic reversion of primary RDEB epidermal clonogenic cells mediated by recombinant retroviral vectors opens new perspectives in the long-term treatment of genodermatoses.
Sunlight and vitamin D for bone health and prevention of autoimmune diseases, cancers, and cardiovascular disease.	Most humans depend on sun exposure to satisfy their requirements for vitamin D. Solar ultraviolet B photons are absorbed by 7-dehydrocholesterol in the skin, leading to its transformation to previtamin D3, which is rapidly converted to vitamin D3. Season, latitude, time of day, skin pigmentation, aging, sunscreen use, and glass all influence the cutaneous production of vitamin D3. Once formed, vitamin D3 is metabolized in the liver to 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 and then in the kidney to its biologically active form, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3. Vitamin D deficiency is an unrecognized epidemic among both children and adults in the United States. Vitamin D deficiency not only causes rickets among children but also precipitates and exacerbates osteoporosis among adults and causes the painful bone disease osteomalacia. Vitamin D deficiency has been associated with increased risks of deadly cancers, cardiovascular disease, multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, and type 1 diabetes mellitus. Maintaining blood concentrations of 25-hydroxyvitamin D above 80 nmol/L (approximately 30 ng/mL) not only is important for maximizing intestinal calcium absorption but also may be important for providing the extrarenal 1alpha-hydroxylase that is present in most tissues to produce 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3. Although chronic excessive exposure to sunlight increases the risk of nonmelanoma skin cancer, the avoidance of all direct sun exposure increases the risk of vitamin D deficiency, which can have serious consequences. Monitoring serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentrations yearly should help reveal vitamin D deficiencies. Sensible sun exposure (usually 5-10 min of exposure of the arms and legs or the hands, arms, and face, 2 or 3 times per week) and increased dietary and supplemental vitamin D intakes are reasonable approaches to guarantee vitamin D sufficiency.
Suppression of Tacrolimus on the expression of MMP-9 in rhHGF-stimulated ECV304 cell line]	To investigate the stimulating effect of recombinant human hepatocyte growth factor (rhHGF) on the expression of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) in ECV304 cells and the suppression effect of FK506.
Measurement of DNA biomarkers for the safety of tissue-engineered medical products, using artificial skin as a model.	To test the hypothesis that the process of tissue engineering introduces genetic damage to tissue-engineered medical products, we employed the use of five state-of-the-art measurement technologies to measure a series of DNA biomarkers in commercially available tissue-engineered skin as a model. DNA was extracted from the skin and compared with DNA from cultured human neonatal control cells (dermal fibroblasts and epidermal keratinocytes) and adult human fibroblasts from a 55-year-old donor and a 96-year-old donor. To determine whether tissue engineering caused oxidative DNA damage, gas chromatography/isotope-dilution mass spectrometry and liquid chromatography/isotope-dilution mass spectrometry were used to measure six oxidatively modified DNA bases as biomarkers. Normal endogenous levels of the modified DNA biomarkers were not elevated in tissue-engineered skin when compared with control cells. Next, denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography and capillary electrophoresis-single strand conformation polymorphism were used to measure genetic mutations. Specifically, the TP53 tumor suppressor gene was screened for mutations, because it is the most commonly mutated gene in skin cancer. The tissue-engineered skin was found to be free of TP53 mutations at the level of sensitivity of these measurement technologies. Lastly, fluorescence in situ hybridization was employed to measure the loss of Y chromosome, which is associated with excessive cell passage and aging. Loss of Y chromosome was not detected in the tissue-engineered skin and cultured neonatal cells used as controls. In this study, we have demonstrated that tissue engineering (for TestSkin II) does not introduce genetic damage above the limits of detection of the state-of-the-art technologies used. This work explores the standard for measuring genetic damage that could be introduced during production of novel tissue-engineered products. More importantly, this exploratory work addresses technological considerations that need to be addressed in order to expedite accurate and useful international reference standards for the emerging tissue-engineering industry.
Transcutaneous bilirubinometry with the Bilicheck in very premature newborns.	To investigate the potential advantages of use of the Bilicheck in the very preterm population, with special emphasis on the effect of possible adverse skin conditions on the accuracy of the measurements. In addition we estimated the potential for safe reduction of the number of blood samples taken for serum bilirubin determinations by introduction of the Bilicheck into the neonatal intensive-care unit (NICU).
Col1a1 promoter-targeted expression of p20 CCAAT enhancer-binding protein beta (C/EBPbeta), a truncated C/EBPbeta isoform, causes osteopenia in transgenic mice.	CCAAT enhancer-binding protein (C/EBP) transcription factors regulate adipocyte differentiation, and recent evidence suggests that osteoblasts and adipocytes share a common pluripotent progenitor in bone marrow. However, little is known about the role of C/EBP transcription factors in the control of osteoblast differentiation or function. In this study, the function of C/EBP transcription factors was disrupted in osteoblast lineage cells by overexpressing a naturally occurring dominant negative C/EBP isoform. Expression of FLp20C/EBPbeta was driven by a 3.6-kb Col1a1 promoter/first intron construct, and four transgenic (TG) mouse lines were established. Northern blotting and reverse transcription-PCR indicated that the transgene was targeted to bone, with lower levels of expression in lung, skin, and adipose tissue. TG mice from two lines showed reduced body weight compared with wild type littermates. All TG lines showed evidence of osteopenia, ranging from mild to severe, as evidenced by reduced trabecular bone volume. Severely affected lines also showed reduced cortical bone width. Dynamic histomorphometry demonstrated an associated decrease in mineral apposition and bone formation rates. Long bones and calvariae of TG mice showed reduced COL1A1 and osteocalcin mRNA levels and increased bone sialoprotein mRNA, consistent with an inhibition of terminal osteoblast differentiation. Ex vivo analysis of primary osteoblast differentiation showed similar effects on marker expression and reduced expression of the mature osteoblast marker Col2.3-green fluorescent protein, demonstrating a cell-autonomous effect of the transgene. These data suggested that C/EBP transcription factors may be important determinants of osteoblast function and bone mass.
Integrin-dependent functions of the angiogenic inducer NOV (CCN3): implication in wound healing.	The novel angiogenic inducer CCN3 (NOV, nephroblastoma overexpressed) is a matricellular protein of the CCN family, which also includes CCN1 (CYR61), CCN2 (CTGF), CCN4 (WISP-1), CCN5 (WISP-2), and CCN6 (WISP-3). CCN3 is broadly expressed in derivatives of all three germ layers during mammalian development, and its deranged expression is associated with vascular injury and a broad range of tumors. We have shown that CCN3 promotes proangiogenic activities in vascular endothelial cells through integrin receptors and induces neovascularization in vivo (Lin, C. G., Leu, S. J., Chen, N., Tebeau, C. M., Lin, S. X., Yeung, C. Y., and Lau, L. F. (2003) J. Biol. Chem. 278, 24200-24208). In this study, we show that CCN3 is highly expressed in granulation tissue of cutaneous wounds 5-7 days after injury and is capable of inducing responses in primary fibroblasts consistent with wound healing. Purified CCN3 supports primary skin fibroblast adhesion through integrins alpha(5)beta(1) and alpha(6)beta(1) and induces fibroblast chemotaxis through integrin alpha(v)beta(5). We show that CCN3 is a novel ligand of alpha(v)beta(5) in a solid phase binding assay. Although not mitogenic on its own, CCN3 also enhances basic fibroblast growth factor-induced DNA synthesis. Furthermore, CCN3 up-regulates MMP-1 and PAI-1 expression but interacts with TGF-beta1 in an antagonistic or synergistic manner to regulate the expression of specific genes. These findings, together with its angiogenic activity, support a role for CCN3 in cutaneous wound healing in skin fibroblasts and establish its matricellular mode of action through integrin receptors.
Infective larvae of the human hookworms Necator americanus and Ancylostoma duodenale differ in their orientation behaviour when crawling on surfaces.	The infective third stage larvae of hookworms infect their hosts by active skin invasion, and they find and recognize their hosts by the behavioural phases of activation, directed crawling, and penetration. Here we analyse the orientation of the infective larvae of the human hookworms Necator americanus and Ancylostoma duodenale when crawling on surfaces. Their behaviour differed from that of the larvae of the dog hookworm Ancylostoma caninum, but the two species also differed from each other. N. americanus crawled towards light, but A. duodenale did not. Both species migrated towards the warm ends of thermal gradients, and this response was more sensitive than in other skin-invading helminths (threshold 0.09 degrees C/cm). However, A. duodenale turned back and accumulated at higher temperatures than N. americanus [turn-back 45.7 (44.5-49.9) vs 41.5 (38.5-43.9) degrees C; accumulation 43.6 (41.6-46.0) vs 39.5 (37.9-43.0) degrees C]. In contrast to other skin-invading helminths, both species showed no chemo-orientation towards skin compounds when crawling on surfaces. This behaviour may reflect adaptations for reaching the skin surface from hairs or adhering material, but the differences in the orientation of the two species could not be attributed to differing transmission strategies.
Transdermal delivery of imipramine hydrochloride: development and evaluation (in vitro and in vivo) of reservoir gel formulation.	The in vitro permeation studies of imipramine hydrochloride (IMH) reported earlier from our laboratory showed that a combination of menthol (2.5% w/v) and oleic acid (2.5% w/v) worked well in terms of safety and efficacy. The main objective of this study was to evaluate the in vivo performance of this combination; in order to do that, penetration enhancers were incorporated in a hydro-alcoholic gel of hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose along with IMH and used as the drug matrix in a reservoir transdermal patch. A stability study of IMH gel was performed at 40 degrees C/75% RH for 2 months. The results of this study indicate that gels of IMH stored at 40 degrees C/75% RH turned yellow brown in 2 months and the small change in viscosity of gel at 40 degrees C/75% RH had an insignificant effect on the release rate of IMH from the gel (p>0.05). The in vivo performance of the gel was tested in rats using a reservoir transdermal patch, which consisted of a backing membrane, drug matrix and retaining membrane with an area of 12.5 cm2. Plasma concentrations of 3 microg/ml of IMH were achieved and in a histopathological study 24 h occlusion was found to be safe.
Desmoglein genes are up-regulated in the pk mutant mouse.	Plucked (pk) is an autosomal recessive mouse mutation with a hair phenotype that arose spontaneously in the DBA/2J strain. Histological studies indicate that adult pk mutant mice lose truncal hair because of the scarring of follicles due to an apparent obstruction of the outward movement of the hair shaft within the follicular canal. We mapped the pk mutant phenotype to a 1.1cM region of chromosome 18 (between 6.6 and 7.7 cM from the centromere) using 370 backcross progeny. Within this region, among others, are genes for desmosome cadherins. Desmosome cadherins are interesting candidates because of their critical roles for cell-cell adhesion in epidermal function. Northern Blot analysis of wild-type and pk mutant mice indicates that expression of both desmoglein 1 (Dsg1) and desmoglein 3 (Dsg3) is up-regulated in the skin of mutant pk mice.
Wound healing and inflammation genes revealed by array analysis of 'macrophageless' PU.1 null mice.	Wound healing is a complex process requiring the collaborative efforts of different tissues and cell lineages, and involving the coordinated interplay of several phases of proliferation, migration, matrix synthesis and contraction. Tissue damage also triggers a robust influx of inflammatory leukocytes to the wound site that play key roles in clearing the wound of invading microbes but also release signals that may be detrimental to repair and lead to fibrosis.
Reciprocal and dynamic control of CD8 T cell homing by dendritic cells from skin- and gut-associated lymphoid tissues.	T cell activation by intestinal dendritic cells (DC) induces gut-tropism. We show that, reciprocally, DC from peripheral lymph nodes (PLN-DC) induce homing receptors promoting CD8 T cell accumulation in inflamed skin, particularly ligands for P- and E-selectin. Differential imprinting of tissue-tropism was independent of Th1/Th2 cytokines and not restricted to particular DC subsets. Fixed PLN-DC retained the capacity to induce selectin ligands on T cells, which was suppressed by addition of live intestinal DC. By contrast, fixed intestinal DC failed to promote gut-tropism and instead induced skin-homing receptors. Moreover, the induction of selectin ligands driven by antigen-pulsed PLN-DC could be suppressed "in trans" by adding live intestinal DC, but PLN-DC did not suppress gut-homing receptors induced by intestinal DC. Reactivation of tissue-committed memory cells modified their tissue-tropism according to the last activating DC's origin. Thus, CD8 T cells activated by DC acquire selectin ligands by default unless they encounter fixation-sensitive signal(s) for gut-tropism from intestinal DC. Memory T cells remain responsive to these signals, allowing for dynamic migratory reprogramming by skin- and gut-associated DC.
Neuroinvasion by scrapie following inoculation via the skin is independent of migratory Langerhans cells.	Many natural transmissible spongiform encephalopathy (TSE) infections are likely to be acquired peripherally, and studies in mice show that skin scarification is an effective means of scrapie transmission. After peripheral exposure, TSE agents usually accumulate in lymphoid tissues before spreading to the brain. The mechanisms of TSE transport to lymphoid tissues are not known. Langerhans cells (LCs) reside in the epidermis and migrate to the draining lymph node after encountering antigen. To investigate the potential role of LCs in scrapie transportation from the skin, we utilized mouse models in which their migration was blocked either due to CD40 ligand deficiency (CD40L-/- mice) or after caspase-1 inhibition. We show that the early accumulation of scrapie infectivity in the draining lymph node and subsequent neuroinvasion was not impaired in mice with blocked LC migration. Thus, LCs are not involved in TSE transport from the skin. After intracerebral inoculation with scrapie, wild-type mice and CD40L-/- mice develop clinical disease with similar incubation periods. However, after inoculation via skin scarification CD40L-/- mice develop disease significantly earlier than do wild-type mice. The shorter incubation period in CD40L-/- mice is unexpected and suggests that a CD40L-dependent mechanism is involved in impeding scrapie pathogenesis. In vitro studies demonstrated that LCs have the potential to acquire and degrade protease-resistant prion protein, which is thought to be a component of the infectious agent. Taken together, these data suggest that LCs are not involved in scrapie transport to draining lymphoid tissues but might have the potential to degrade scrapie in the skin.
Molecular cloning of mRNA from toad granular gland secretion and lyophilized skin: identification of Bo8--a novel prokineticin from Bombina orientalis.	Prokineticins are small (approximately 8 kDa), biologically active secretory proteins whose primary structures have been highly conserved throughout the Animal Kingdom. Representatives have been identified in the defensive skin secretions of several amphibians reflecting the immense structural/functional diversity of polypeptides in such. Here we describe the identification of a prokineticin homolog (designated Bo8) from the skin secretion of the Oriental fire-bellied toad (Bombina orientalis). Full primary structural characterization was achieved using a combination of direct Edman microsequencing, mass spectrometry and cloning of encoding skin cDNA. The latter approach employed a recently described technique that we developed for the cloning of secretory peptide cDNAs from lyophilized skin secretion, and this was further extended to employ lyophilized skin as the starting material for cDNA library construction. The Bo8 precursor was found to consist of an open-reading frame of 96 amino acid residues consisting of a putative 19-residue signal peptide followed by a single 77-residue prokineticin (Mr=7990 Da). Amino acid substitutions in skin prokineticins from the skin secretions of bombinid toads are confined to discrete sites affording the necessary information for structure/activity studies and analog design.
Proteome analysis of skin distinguishes acute guttate from chronic plaque psoriasis.	Psoriasis is a disease with considerable heterogeneity in clinical presentation. This is the first study using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis to compare global protein expression patterns in lesional and non-lesional skin from subjects with acute guttate psoriasis associated with streptococcal throat infection and chronic plaque psoriasis. Samples from experimentally induced contact eczema and normal skin from healthy controls were also included. Proteins with statistically significant differences in expression were used in hierarchical cluster analyses resulting in separation of the different samples into groups. Chronic plaque and guttate psoriasis samples were distinctly separated, indicating that they represent discrete phenotypes at the protein expression level. Interestingly, there was a trend in which guttate psoriasis lesions clustered closer to eczema than to chronic plaque psoriasis lesions, indicating that the duration of the inflammatory reaction may affect clustering. Several of the differentially expressed proteins were identified by mass spectrometry.
Calcium uptake in the skin of a freshwater teleost.	The skin, particularly the opercular membrane of some teleosts, contains mitochondrion-rich "chloride" cells and has been widely used as a model to study branchial salt-extrusion mechanisms in seawater fish. Skin isolated from the operculum of the freshwater Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus) can transport Ca2+ against an ionic and electrical gradient. Adaptation of Nile tilapia to a low-Ca2+ environment increased the capacity of the opercular membrane to transport Ca2+. The density of mitochondrion-rich cells increased in parallel with Ca2+ transport capacity. The results demonstrate net Ca2+ uptake by vertebrate skin and strongly implicate mitochondrion-rich cells as the site of Ca2+ uptake in fresh water.
Subcutaneous administration of collagen-polyvinylpyrrolidone down regulates IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, TGF-beta1, ELAM-1 and VCAM-1 expression in scleroderma skin lesions.	In this study the effect of collagen-polyvinylpyrrolidone (collagen-PVP) vs. triamcinolone acetonide (Triam) in scleroderma (SSc) skin lesions was evaluated. Ten SSc patients were treated weekly with subcutaneous injections of 0.2 mL Triam (8 mg/mL) or 0.2 mL collagen-PVP (1.66 mg collagen). Skin biopsies were obtained from lesions before and after treatment. Tissue sections were evaluated by histology and immunohistochemistry (ELAM-1, VCAM-1, IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, TGF-beta1 and PDGF). The corticoid-treated group showed abnormal tissue architecture while the biodrug-treatment restored cutaneous appendages and type I/III collagen proportion. Cytokine and adhesion molecule expression was almost inhibited with Triam, while collagen-PVP down-regulated it. Collagen-PVP improved the tissue architecture of SSc lesions and down-regulated some proinflammatory parameters, without the side effects induced by corticoids.
CD25+CD4+ regulatory T cells generated by exposure to a model protein antigen prevent allograft rejection: antigen-specific reactivation in vivo is critical for bystander regulation.	The importance of CD25(+)CD4(+) regulatory T (Treg) cells in the control of immune responses is established, but their antigen specificity in vivo remains unclear. Understanding Treg-cell specificity requirements will be important if their potential is to be developed for immunotherapy. Pretreatment of recipient mice with donor alloantigen plus anti-CD4 antibody generates CD25(+)CD4(+) Treg cells with the capacity to prevent skin allograft rejection in adoptive transfer recipients. Here we demonstrate that, although this regulation can be antigen-specific, reactivation with the original tolerizing alloantigen allows the Treg cells to suppress rejection of third-party allografts. Aware of the limitations of alloantigen pretreatment, we asked whether graft-protective Treg cells could be generated against unrelated, nongraft antigens. We demonstrate that bystander regulation also extends to CD25(+)CD4(+) Treg cells generated in vivo by exposure to nominal antigens under anti-CD4 antibody cover. Providing these Treg cells are reexposed to the tolerizing antigens before adoptive transfer, they prevent the rejection of fully allogeneic skin grafts. That this might form the basis of a clinically relevant tolerance induction strategy is demonstrated by the fact that, when combined with subtherapeutic anti-CD8 antibody, Treg cells generated in response to nongraft antigens facilitate the acceptance of cardiac allografts in primary recipients.
Enhanced GM1 ganglioside catabolism in cultured fibroblasts from Alzheimer patients.	The metabolic processing of GM1 ganglioside, exogenously administered to cultured skin fibroblasts, was investigated on cells obtained from patients affected with Alzheimer disease, in comparison with age-matched control subjects. Cultured fibroblasts were incubated with GM1 ganglioside, [(3)H]-radiolabelled at the sphingosine moiety. It was observed that the extent of tritiated GM2 and GM3 ganglioside formation was higher in AD fibroblasts than in control cells. The activity of acidic beta-D-galactosidase, responsible of GM1 hydrolysis to GM2 within lysosomes, assayed in vitro on cell lysates, was increased in AD fibroblasts in comparison with control cells. These data suggest that up-regulation of lysosomal enzymes could be responsible of the enhanced GM1 catabolism in AD fibroblasts. Finally, it was found that the extent of GM1 hydrolysis in AD fibroblasts was inversely correlated with the mini-mental score index of patients. The increased hydrolysis rate of sphingolipids could be taken as peripheral hallmark of Alzheimer's disease patients.
Antioxidant defences in cybrids harboring mtDNA mutations associated with Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy.	Oxidative stress and imbalance between free radical generation and detoxification may play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON). Mitochondria, carrying the homoplasmic 11778/ND4, 3460/ND1 and 14484/ND6 mtDNA point mutations associated with LHON, were used to generate osteosarcoma-derived cybrids. Enhanced mitochondrial production of reactive oxygen species has recently been demonstrated in these cybrids [Beretta S, Mattavelli L, Sala G, Tremolizzo L, Schapira AHV, Martinuzzi A, Carelli V & Ferrarese C (2004) Brain 127, 2183-2192]. The aim of this study was to characterize the antioxidant defences of these LHON-affected cells. The activities of glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione reductase (GR), superoxide dismutases (SOD) and catalase, and the amounts of glutathione (GSH) and oxidized glutathione (GSSG) were measured in cybrids cultured both in glucose-rich medium and galactose-rich medium. The latter is known to cause oxidative stress and to trigger apoptotic death in these cells. In spite of reduced SOD activities in all LHON cybrids, and of low GPx and GR activities in cells with the most severe 3460/ND1 and 11778/ND4 mutations, GSH and GSSG content were not significantly modified in LHON cybrids cultured in glucose medium. In contrast, in galactose, GSSG concentrations increased significantly in all cells, indicating severe oxidative stress, whereas GR and MnSOD activities further decreased in all LHON cybrids. These data suggest that, in cells carrying LHON mutations, there is a decrease in antioxidant defences, which is especially evident in cells with mutations associated with the most severe clinical phenotype. This is magnified by stressful conditions such as exposure to galactose.
Distribution and expression of SNAP-25 immunoreactivity in rat brain, rat PC-12 cells and human SMS-KCNR neuroblastoma cells.	Immunocytochemical, immunoblotting and in situ hybridization studies were used to map the distribution of SNAP-25 protein and mRNA in the rodent nervous system. These experiments demonstrated that subsets of neurons expressed SNAP-25, and that several patterns of expression emerged: SNAP-25 expression in caudate nucleus was initially concentrated in axons, which subsequently was localized in presynaptic regions of these axons. Other regions, typified by neocortex, showed developmental increases and persistent adult neuronal immunoreactivity for SNAP-25. Finally, olfactory bulb contained neurons which initially expressed SNAP-25, but lost expression during maturation. Additional studies in cultured human and rat cell lines derived from neural crest suggested that SNAP-25 is expressed in such lines, but not in glial or fibroblast lines. Differentiation of rat PC-12 cells with nerve growth factor failed to alter steady-state levels of SNAP-25 protein; similar responses were seen in human SMS-KCNR neuroblastoma cells differentiated using retinoic acid. The presence of SNAP-25 in presynaptic regions of numerous neuronal subsets and in neural crest cell lines suggests that this protein subserves an important function in neuronal tissues.
Trace element analysis of scales from four populations of Norwegian Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar L.) for stock identification using laser ablation inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry.	The pre-smolt stage of the scale of adult Norwegian Atlantic salmon from four populations, encompassing both farmed and wild hatchery stocks, has been analyzed by laser ablation inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (LA-HR-ICP-MS). The purpose of this study was to test for differences in elemental composition between stocks of Atlantic salmon that have lived in separate fresh water locations until the smoltification and natural run out or transportation to the sea-cages. The populations studied were from fish farms located at Bremanger and Sorfold, a cultivated stock from Mossa, and one wild local stock from the river Gaula. The following elements were included in the analytical protocol: Li, Mg, Ca, Cr, Mn, Fe, Zn, Sr, Ba, Pb, and U. Calcium was used as a natural internal standard. Classification of the analytical data is studied by multivariate statistical techniques such as principal component analysis (PCA). We have been able to delineate the population of Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar L.) from Gaula and Mossa from the Bremanger and the Sorfold stock based on the ten elements analyzed. The Bremanger and Sorfold stocks were partially delineated. The differences in elemental composition in the scales, which makes the delineating of the four stocks possible, probably reflects geological differences in the bedrock at the four fresh water locations experienced by the salmon during the pre-smolt stage.
Changes of epidermal mu-opiate receptor expression and nerve endings in chronic atopic dermatitis.	There is increasing evidence that neuropeptides such as a substance P, neurotrophins or beta-endorphin, an endogenous agonist for mu-opioid receptor, are involved in the pathogenesis of atopic dermatitis in which mental stress and scratching deteriorate the disease. mu-Opioid receptor, a G-protein-coupled receptor, can be downregulated and internalized by agonists and other factors in vitro. In this study, we investigated the regulation of mu-opioid receptor and nerve endings in atopic dermatitis patients. Skin biopsies from atopic dermatitis patients revealed a significant downregulation of mu-opiate receptor expression in epidermis of atopic dermatitis. Permeabilization of the skin showed that the receptor in keratinocytes from atopic dermatitis is internalized. The mRNA expression pattern of the mu-opiate receptor is different in epidermis taken from patients with chronic atopic dermatitis compared to normal skin. In atopic dermatitis, the mRNA is concentrated in the subcorneal layers of the epidermis and in normal skin in the suprabasal layers. Staining of the nerve endings using protein gene product 9.5 shows a different pattern of epidermal nerve endings in normal skin compared to atopic dermatitis. In normal skin, the epidermal nerve endings are rather thick. However, in atopic dermatitis, the epidermal nerve endings are thin and run straight through the epidermis. Based on these observations and combining the 'intensity' and 'pattern' hypothesis, we propose a new theory especially for histamine-unrelated, peripheral induction of chronic pruritus. We suggest that 'itch' is elicited in the epidermal unmyelinated nerve C-fibers and 'pain' in the dermal unmyelinated nerve fibers. The downregulation of the opioid receptor in the epidermis contributes to the chronic itching. We call this new hypothesis the 'layer hypothesis'.
Expression and genomic structure of the genes encoding FdI, the major allergen from the domestic cat.	The genes encoding chain 1 (Ch1) and chain 2 (Ch2) of the major allergen of the domestic cat, Felis domesticus I, have been analyzed by genomic cloning and by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Ch1 has two potential leader sequences, designated A and B. Analysis of a genomic clone encoding Ch1 demonstrated that one structural gene contains sequences corresponding to both leaders, which utilize different Met start codons. PCR analysis showed that genes encoding Ch1 and Ch2 are co-expressed in both the salivary glands and the skin, and that leader sequence A of Ch1 is utilized preferentially in both tissues. Ch2 was shown to have two dominant forms that are differentially expressed in the aforementioned tissues. The long form (Ch2L), composed of 92 amino acids (aa), is preferentially expressed in the salivary glands, while the short form (Ch2S), composed of 90 aa, is preferentially expressed in the skin. There is minor sequence polymorphism in both forms of Ch2. A genomic clone for Ch2 only contained sequences for Ch2S, suggesting that Ch2L is encoded by an exon not contained within this genomic clone.
Aberrantly differentiated cells in benign pilomatrixoma reflect the normal hair follicle: immunohistochemical analysis of Ca-binding S100A2, S100A3 and S100A6 proteins.	Pilomatrixoma is a common benign cutaneous tumour containing differentiated hair matrix cells. This tumour is mainly composed of basophilic, transitional, shadow and squamoid cells. Although some S100 proteins are expressed in a tissue-specific manner in the hair follicle (e.g. S100A2 in the outer root sheath, S100A3 in the cortex and cuticle, and S100A6 in the inner root sheath), little information is available concerning their distribution in the aberrantly differentiated tissues of pilomatrixoma.
Keratinocytes display normal proliferation, survival and differentiation in conditional beta4-integrin knockout mice.	The alpha6beta4 integrin is located at the basal surface of keratinocytes, in hemidesmosomal structures that mediate stable adhesion of epidermal cells to the underlying basement membrane component laminin-5. The absence of alpha6beta4 integrin causes junctional epidermolysis bullosa, a severe blistering disease of the skin leading to perinatal death, confirming its essential role in mediating strong keratinocyte adhesion. Several studies have suggested that alpha6beta4 integrin can also regulate signaling cascades that control cell proliferation, survival and migration through a mechanism independent of its adhesive function. We have generated a conditional knockout mouse strain, in which the gene encoding the beta4 integrin subunit (Itgb4) was inactivated only in small stretches of the skin. These mice were viable and permitted an accurate analysis of the consequences of the loss of beta4 on various biological processes by comparing beta4-positive and -negative parts of the skin in the same animal. Despite the complete loss of hemidesmosomes in regions lacking alpha6beta4 integrin, the distribution of a range of adhesion receptors and basement membrane proteins was unaltered. Moreover, loss of alpha6beta4 did not affect squamous differentiation, proliferation or survival, except for areas in which keratinocytes had detached from the basement membrane. These in vivo observations were confirmed in vitro by using immortalized keratinocytes - derived from beta4-subunit conditional knockout mice - from which the gene encoding beta4 had been deleted by Cre-mediated recombination. Consistent with the established role of alpha6beta4 in adhesion strengthening, its loss from cells was found to increase their motility. Our findings clearly demonstrate that, after birth, epidermal differentiation, proliferation and survival all proceed normally in the absence of alpha6beta4, provided that cell adhesion is not compromised.
Differentiation-specific localization of catalase and hydrogen peroxide, and their alterations in rat skin exposed to ultraviolet B rays.	It is now well known that to counteract oxidative stress and maintain a redox balance within the cells, the skin is equipped with a network of antioxidant enzymes. Among these enzymes, SOD and CAT are the major antioxidant enzymes protecting the epidermis.
Differential expression of tissue kallikrein in the skin of systemic sclerosis.	Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is characterised by ischemic damage, impaired angiogenesis and skin fibrosis. Tissue kallikrein (t-kallikrein) is involved through kinins in inflammation, vasorelaxation and angiogenesis. T-kallikrein is synthetised by endothelial, smooth muscle, and inflammatory cells and, in skin, also by dark cells of the sweat glands, where it is involved in sweat formation. Our aim was to analyse, by immunohistochemistry and RT-PCR, the expression of t-kallikrein in the skin of patients with different SSc subsets, limited (lSSc) and diffuse (dSSc), and phases, early and advanced. Skin biopsies were taken from 18 SSc patients and 10 controls. Immunohistochemistry was performed on paraffin sections with an antibody against human urinary t-kallikrein. For RT-PCR, cDNA from skin biopsies was amplified using primers specific for human t-kallikrein. In the control skin, dark cells of the secretory units of sweat glands showed immunopositivity for t-kallikrein as well as blood vessels. In the lSSc skin, immunoreactivity was observed only in some glands, with weak staining in the advanced phase. In early lSSc skin, immunoreactivity was observed in microvessel walls and in the inflammatory infiltrate. In dSSc skin, dark cells of the glandular fundus units, and the few remaining vessels showed scarcity (early phase) or lack (advanced phase) of immunoreactivity for t-kallikrein. RT-PCR confirmed a decrease of t-kallikrein mRNA levels from early to advanced phase in SSc subsets, reaching its lowest level in advanced dSSc. In conclusion, immunohistochemical and biomolecular results indicate that t-kallikrein is decreased in the skin of SSc patients and decreases progressively from the early to advanced phase of lSSc and dSSc. The decreased expression of t-kallikrein may be involved in the impairment of the sweating process, vessel functionality and angiogenesis.
Bioconversion of naltrexone and its 3-O-alkyl-ester prodrugs in a human skin equivalent.	The purpose of this study was to compare the percutaneous absorption and bioconversion of naltrexone (NTX), naltrexone-3-O-valerate (VAL), and naltrexone-3-O-(2'-ethylbutyrate) (ETBUT) in a human skin equivalent model (EpiDerm) and in fresh human skin in vitro. NTX diffusion and metabolism to 6-beta-naltrexol (NTXol) were quantitated and compared in the EpiDerm and in excised fresh human skin. VAL and ETBUT diffusion and bioconversion studies were also completed in EpiDerm. Naltrexone bioconverted to levels of 3+/-2% NTXol in the EpiDerm and 1+/-0.5% in fresh human skin. VAL hydrolyzed rapidly in the EpiDerm and mainly (93+/-4%) NTX was found in the receiver compartment, similar to human skin. More intact ETBUT permeated the EpiDerm tissue compared to VAL, and only 15+/-11% NTX was found in the receiver. Significantly higher fluxes of NTX and the prodrugs were observed with the EpiDerm compared to human skin. A similar flux enhancement level was observed for VAL, compared to NTX base, in the EpiDerm and the human skin. Metabolically active human epidermal models like EpiDerm are useful as an alternative experimental system to human skin for prediction of topical/transdermal drug/prodrug bioconversion.
Feasibility of tracking phospholipid permeation into skin using infrared and Raman microscopic imaging.	The feasibility of monitoring the permeation of chain perdeuterated 1,2-dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC-d62) and 1-palmitoyl-d31, 2-oleoylphosphatidylcholine (P-d31OPC) vesicles into pigskin using infrared (IR) microscopic imaging and confocal Raman microscopy was demonstrated. The former technique permits the examination of the relative concentration of molecular species (e.g., endogenous and exogenous lipids and proteins) over spatial areas, approximately 1 mm, with a spatial resolution of approximately 10-12 microm. In contrast, Raman microscopy allows the confocal examination of tissue at depths up to 100 microm with a pixel size of about 2-3 microm3. Spectral signal/noise, however, is reduced from IR and significantly smaller areas are generally monitored. The permeation of the gel phase DPPC-d62 was limited to approximately 5-15 microm, whereas the liquid-crystalline phase P-d31OPC permeated to substantially greater depths (35-100 microm), at times ranging up to 24 h after application. The results are generally in accord with literature values. In addition, the state of the P-d31OPC (intact vesicles or molecularly dispersed with skin constituents) was evaluated from the spatial dependence of the deuteriopalmitate chain conformational order. Upon permeation, the chains became more ordered. The advantages and limitations of these imaging technologies are discussed.
High-performance liquid chromatographic determination of sumatriptan after in vitro transdermal diffusion studies.	A simple, accurate, precise and rapid HPLC method with UV detection has been validated in order to determine the in vitro transdermal absorption of sumatriptan succinate. The HPLC method is a modification of that described by Nozal et al. [M.J. Nozal, J.L. Bernal, L. Toribio, M.T. Martin, F.J. Diez, J. Pharm. Biomed. Anal. 30 (2002) 285-291]. Separation was carried out on a 250 mm Kromasil C18 column at room temperature. The detector response, at 282.7 nm, was found to be linear in a concentration range between 0.145 and 145 microM. The limit of detection (LOD) was 0.019 microM and the limit of quantification (LOQ) was 0.145 microM.
A cyclosporine-sensitive psoriasis-like disease produced in Tie2 transgenic mice.	Psoriasis is a common, persistent skin disorder characterized by recurrent erythematous lesions thought to arise as a result of inflammatory cell infiltration and activation of keratinocyte proliferation. Unscheduled angiogenic growth has also been proposed to mediate the pathogenesis of psoriasis although the cellular and molecular basis for this response remains unclear. Recently, a role for the angiopoietin signaling system in psoriasis has been suggested by studies that demonstrate an up-regulation of the tyrosine kinase receptor Tie2 (also known as Tek) as well as angiopoietin-1 and angiopoietin-2 in human psoriatic lesions. To examine temporal expression of Tie2, we have developed a binary transgenic approach whereby expression of Tie2 can be conditionally regulated by the presence of tetracycline analogs in double-transgenic mice. A psoriasis-like phenotype developed in double-transgenic animals within 5 days of birth and persisted throughout adulthood. The skin of affected mice exhibited many cardinal features of human psoriasis including epidermal hyperplasia, inflammatory cell accumulation, and altered dermal angiogenesis. These skin abnormalities resolved completely with tetracycline-mediated suppression of transgene expression, thereby illustrating a complete dependence on Tie2 signaling for disease maintenance and progression. Furthermore, the skin lesions in double-transgenic mice markedly improved after administration of the immunosuppressive anti-psoriatic agent cyclosporine, thus demonstrating the clinical significance of this new model.
Decrease in skin permeation and antibacterial effect of parabens by a polymeric additive, poly(2-methacryloyloxyethyl phosphorylcholine-co-butylmetacrylate).	The inhibitory effect of poly(2-methacryloyloxyethyl phosphorylcholine-co-butylmetacrylate) (PMB) on the in vitro skin permeation of p-hydroxybenzoic acid and its esters (parabens; methylparaben, ethylparaben, n-propylparaben and n-butylparaben) as model compounds was evaluated. Solubility of the parabens in distilled water was increased by addition of PMB, and the increasing ratio was dependent on the concentration of PMB. The increment of the ratio was more marked in lipophilic parabens than hydrophilic ones. Skin permeability of parabens from their aqueous suspensions was decreased by addition of PMB, and the decreasing ratio was dependent on the PMB concentration. Then, antibacterial effect of parabens of their aqueous solutions was determined with and without PMB by measuring minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) against E. coli and S. aureus. As results, MIC and antibacterial effect were increased and decreased, respectively, by addition of PMB. The contribution of PMB was more marked in butylparaben than methylparaben. These decreases in skin permeation and antibacterial effect of parabens by PMB are probably due to a higher solubility in water and a lower partition to the skin and bacterial membranes of parabens by addition of PMB.
Reduced nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain in kinin B1 receptor knock-out mice.	Injury to peripheral nerves often results in a persistent neuropathic pain condition that is characterized by spontaneous pain, allodynia, and hyperalgesia. Nerve injury is accompanied by a local inflammatory reaction in which nerve-associated and immune cells release several pronociceptive mediators. Kinin B1 receptors are rarely expressed in nontraumatized tissues, but they can be expressed after tissue injury. Because B1 receptors mediate chronic inflammatory painful processes, we studied their participation in neuropathic pain using receptor gene-deleted mice. In the absence of neuropathy, we found no difference in the paw-withdrawal responses to thermal or mechanical stimulation between B1 receptor knock-out mice and 129/J wild-type mice. Partial ligation of the sciatic nerve in the wild-type mouse produced a profound and long-lasting decrease in thermal and mechanical thresholds in the paw ipsilateral to nerve lesion. Threshold changed neither in the sham-operated animals nor in the paw contralateral to lesion. Ablation of the gene for the B1 receptor resulted in a significant reduction in early stages of mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia. Furthermore, systemic treatment with the B1 selective receptor antagonist des-Arg9-[Leu8]-bradykinin reduced the established mechanical allodynia observed 7-28 d after nerve lesion in wild-type mice. Partial sciatic nerve ligation induced an upregulation in B1 receptor mRNA in ipsilateral paw, sciatic nerve, and spinal cord of wild-type mice. Together, kinin B1 receptor activation seems to be essential to neuropathic pain development, suggesting that an oral-selective B1 receptor antagonist might have therapeutic potential in the management of chronic pain.
Heparan sulphate interacts with tropoelastin, with some tropoelastin peptides and is present in human dermis elastic fibers.	A number of reports point to the presence of proteoglycans and/or glycosaminoglycans within elastic fibers in normal and in pathological conditions. We present data that heparan sulphate (HS)-containing proteoglycans are associated with normal elastic fibers in human dermis and that isolated HS chains interact in vitro with recombinant tropoelastin and with peptides encoded by distinct exons of the human tropoelastin gene (EDPs). By immunocytochemistry, HS chains were identified as associated with the amorphous elastin component in the human dermis and remained associated with the residual elastin in the partially degenerated fibers of old subjects. HS appeared particularly concentrated in the mineralization front of elastic fibers in the dermis of patients affected by pseudoxanthoma elasticum (PXE). In in vitro experiments, HS induced substantial changes in the coacervation temperature and in the aggregation properties of recombinant tropoelastin and of synthetic peptides (EDPs) corresponding to sequences encoded by exons 18, 20, 24 and 30 of the human tropoelastin gene. In particular, HS modified the coacervation temperature and favoured the aggregation into ordered structures of tropoelastin molecules and of EDPs 18, 20 and 24, but not of EDP30. These data strongly indicate that HS-elastin interactions may play a role in tissue elastin fibrogenesis as well as modulating elastin stability with time and in diseases.
Positive contribution of pathogenic mutations in the mitochondrial genome to the promotion of cancer by prevention from apoptosis.	The role of mitochondrial dysfunction in cancer has been a subject of great interest and much ongoing investigation. Although most cancer cells harbor somatic mutations in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), the question of whether such mutations contribute to the promotion of carcinomas remains unsolved. Here we used trans-mitochondrial hybrids (cybrids) containing a common HeLa nucleus and mtDNA of interest to compare the role of mtDNA against the common nuclear background. We constructed cybrids with or without a homoplasmic pathogenic point mutation at nucleotide position 8,993 or 9,176 in the mtDNA ATP synthase subunit 6 gene (MTATP6) derived from patients with mitochondrial encephalomyopathy. When the cybrids were transplanted into nude mice, the MTATP6 mutations conferred an advantage in the early stage of tumor growth. The mutant cybrids also increased faster than wild type in culture. To complement the mtDNA mutations, we transfected a wild-type nuclear version of MTATP, whose codons were converted to the universal genetic codes containing a mitochondrial target sequence, into the nucleus of cybrids carrying mutant MTATP6. The restoration of MTATP slowed down the growth of tumor in transplantation. Conversely, expression of a mutant nuclear version of MTATP6 in the wild-type cybrids declined respiration and accelerated the tumor growth. These findings showed that the advantage in tumor growth depended upon the MTATP6 function but was not due to secondary nuclear mutations caused by the mutant mitochondria. Because apoptosis occurred less frequently in the mutant versus wild-type cybrids in cultures and tumors, the pathogenic mtDNA mutations seem to promote tumors by preventing apoptosis.
Changes in the index of sweat ion concentration with increasing sweat during passive heat stress in humans.	To investigate the pattern changes in the index of sweat ion concentration at skin surface with increasing sweat during passive heat stress in humans, we measured conductivity of the perfused water with sweat as the index of sweat ion concentration and sweat rate, continuously at the chest skin surface. Eight healthy subjects (22.4 +/-1.0 years) were passively heated by lower-leg immersion in a hot water bath of 42 degrees C for 50 min in an ambient temperature of 28 degrees C and relative humidity of 50%. The internal temperature (Tor) thresholds of sweat rate and index of sweat ion concentration were almost similar. Concomitant onset for the index of sweat ion concentration and sweat rate occurred but two types of linear regression lines were identified in the relationship between the index of sweat ion concentration and sweat rate at a boundary sweat rate value of 0.30 +/- 0.08 mg cm(-2) min(-1). The slope of the regression line at low levels of sweat (slope 0.02 +/- 0.01 V mg(-1) cm(-2) min(-1)) was significantly gradual compared with that at moderate levels of sweat (slope 0.30 +/- 0.08 V mg(-1) cm(-2) min(-1)) (P<0.05). These results suggest that at low levels of sweat the index of sweat ion concentration responds gradually with respect to sweat rate, which may be due to the ion reabsorption capacity of the sweat duct, and then the index of sweat ion concentration increased steeply with sweat rate.
Abrogation of transforming growth factor-beta signaling by SMAD7 inhibits collagen gel contraction of human dermal fibroblasts.	Human fibroproliferative disorders like hypertrophic scarring of the skin are characterized by increased contractility and excess extracellular matrix synthesis. A beneficial role of transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta in wound healing was proposed; however, chronic stimulation by this cytokine leads to fibrosis. In the present report, the intracellular TGF-beta signaling in fibroblasts derived from hypertrophic scars and normal skin was examined. In an attempt to intervene in profibrogenic TGF-beta functions, ectopic expression of Smad7 or dominant negative Smads3/4 completely inhibited contractility of scar-derived and normal fibroblasts after suspension in collagen gels. Both cell types displayed constitutive Smad2/3 phosphorylation and (CAGA)9-MLP-Luc activity with expression and phosphorylation of Smad3 being predominant in hypertrophic scar-derived fibroblasts. Down-regulation of intrinsic signaling with various TGF-beta antagonists, e.g. soluble TGF-beta receptor, latency-associated peptide, and anti-TGF-beta1 antibodies, confirms autocrine TGF-beta stimulation of both cell populations. Further, Smad7 expression inhibited alpha1 (I) collagen and alpha-smooth muscle actin expression. In summary, our data indicate that autocrine TGF-beta/Smad signaling is involved in contractility and matrix gene expression of fibroblasts from normal and hypertrophic scars. Smad7 inhibits these processes and may exert beneficial effects on excessive scar formation.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis heat shock proteins use diverse Toll-like receptor pathways to activate pro-inflammatory signals.	Although the Toll-like receptors used by Mycobacterium tuberculosis membrane and secreted factors are known, the pathways activated by M. tuberculosis heat shock proteins are not. An efficient immune response against the intracellular pathogen M. tuberculosis is critically dependent on rapid detection of the invading pathogen by the innate immune system and coordinated activation of the adaptive immune response. Macrophage phagocytosis of M. tuberculosis is accompanied by activation of the transcription factor NF-kappaB and secretion of inflammatory mediators that play an important role in granuloma formation and immune protection during M. tuberculosis infection. The interaction between M. tuberculosis and the various Toll-like receptors is complex, and it appears that distinct mycobacterial components may interact with different members of the Toll-like receptor family. Here we show that recombinant, purified, mycobacterial heat shock proteins 65 and 70 induce NF-kappaB activity in a dose-dependent manner in human endothelial cells. Furthermore, we show that whereas mycobacterial heat shock protein 65 signals exclusively through Toll-like receptor 4, heat shock protein 70 also signals through Toll-like receptor 2. Mycobacterial heat shock protein 65-induced NF-kappaB activation was MyD88-, TIRAP-, TRIF-, and TRAM-dependent and required the presence of MD-2. A better understanding of the recognition of mycobacterial heat shock proteins and their role in the host immune response to the pathogen may open the way to a better understanding of the immunological processes induced by this important human pathogen and the host-pathogen interactions and may help in the rational design of more effective vaccines or vaccine adjuvants.
Purine levels in the skin of juvenile coho salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch) during parr-smolt transformation and adaptation to seawater.	1. Juvenile coho salmon were examined for changes in guanine and hypoxanthine levels in the skin in relation to common physiological indices of parr-smolt transformation. 2. Guanine levels correlated well with changes in smolt indices, but reached maximum levels up to 1 month earlier than the development of seawater tolerance. 3. Transfer of juveniles into seawater at different times during the smolting cycle did not cause significant alterations in guanine concentration from the cyclic changes found in fish reared in freshwater. 4. Results suggest that guanine deposition in the skin during smolting seems unresponsive to seawater adaptation and therefore may not represent an adaptation in preparation for an oceanic life.
Tissue distribution of 2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline (MeIQx) in two strains of male rats.	Albino and hooded male rats were administered 14C-labeled 2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline (MeIQx) by gavage. The tissue distribution was investigated by means of whole-body autoradiography and liquid scintillation counting. MeIQx was rapidly absorbed from the alimentary tract and distributed to several tissues. The major predilection sites were the liver and kidneys. The amount of radioactivity decreased dramatically within a few days. However, unextractable radioactive material was still detectable in these organs 6 days after the administration.
Noninvasive method for the assessment of dermal uptake of pesticides using attenuated total reflectance infrared spectroscopy.	Dermal absorption of pesticides is a primary exposure route for agricultural workers, but is not well characterized. Current measurement techniques are either invasive, such as tape-stripping, or require extensive sample preparation or analysis time, such as urinary metabolite monitoring or wipe sampling followed by gas chromatography analysis. We present the application of a noninvasive, spectroscopic approach for the measurement of pesticide absorption into skin. Attenuated total reflectance infrared spectroscopy (ATR-IR) was used to monitor directly the absorption of two pesticides--captan and azinphos-methyl--in ten volunteers over 20 min under occlusive conditions. We found substantial variability in absorption across subjects. Our results were comparable to those measured by the more traditional method of wipe-sampling followed by extraction and gas chromatography analysis. Multivariate data analysis, in the form of multivariate curve resolution (MCR), is a novel addition to this type of experiment, yielding time-resolved information unachievable by standard methods. These data are potentially more informative than the monitoring of blood or urinary metabolites because they can be acquired in essentially real-time, allowing observations of pesticide absorption on a rapid timescale rather than over hours or days.
Analysis of p53 tumor suppressor gene, H-ras protooncogene and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) in squamous cell carcinomas of HRA/Skh mice following exposure to 8-methoxypsoralen (8-MOP) and UVA radiation (PUVA therapy).	Treatment with 8-methoxypsoralen (8-MOP) and ultraviolet radiation (primarily UVA), called PUVA therapy, has been used to treat different chronic skin diseases but led to a significant increased risk for skin cancer. The National Toxicology Program (NTP) performed a study in mice treated with PUVA that showed a significant increase in squamous cell carcinomas of the skin. In the present study, we evaluated the protein expression of p53 and PCNA and DNA mutations of p53 and H-ras genes in both hyperplastic and neoplastic squamous cell lesions from the NTP study. By immunohistochemical staining, protein expression of both p53 and PCNA was detected in 3/16 (19%) of hyperplastic lesions and 14/17 (82%) of SCCs in groups treated with both 8-MOP and UVA. The mutation frequency of p53 in SCCs from mice administered 8-MOP plus UVA was 15/17 (88%) with a predominant distribution of mutations in exon 6 (14/15 - 93%). No H-ras mutations were detected in the hyperplastic lesions/tumors. The mutagenic effect of PUVA on the p53 tumor suppressor gene may lead to a conformational modification and inactivation of the p53 protein, which are considered critical steps in PUVA-induced skin carcinogenesis. The p53 mutational frequency and patterns from our study were different from those reported in human PUVA-type tumors.
Immunohistochemical studies comparing the localization of type XV collagen in normal human skin and skin tumors with that of type IV collagen.	We investigated the localization of type XV collagen in normal human skin and skin tumors by immunohistochemical methods using a monoclonal antibody against the recombinant polypeptide of the non-collagenous region of the alpha1 chain of murine type XV collagen. Type XV collagen was localized in the dermo-epidermal, perivascular, and perineural basement membrane zones in normal skin. While this localization appeared to be similar to that of type IV collagen, detailed observation revealed that its localization was distinct in fact from that of type IV collagen which was thin and linear in appearance and was distributed inside organs. Type XV collagen was distributed broadly and zonally outside organs such as vascular and neural tissues. It was expressed at low levels in seborrheic keratosis and not expressed at all in actinic keratosis and squamous cell carcinoma. Melanocytic nevi and malignant melanomas in situ were positive for type XV collagen; melanomas with dermal invasion were negative. These findings suggest that type XV collagen plays a role in the adherence of the basement membrane to surrounding connective tissue and that it may be associated with the tumorigenesis of keratinocytes and melanocytes.
Effect of exercise on transdermal nicotine release in healthy habitual smokers.	Transdermal nicotine patches have become a frequently prescribed tool in smoking cessation programs during the past years. However, there is circumstantial evidence that transdermal nicotine release substantially varies with physical activity producing toxic plasma concentrations that may account for severe adverse events.
Cutaneous photobiology]	The integration of the various cell reactions with ultraviolet light is modulated by the phototypes. It is responsible for photo-immunological processes and for photocancerogenesis.
Skin photophysics and colors]	The optical properties of skin and of chromophores orientate and absorbe light. The resulting skin colour can be assessed by visual inspection or by objective methods. Spectrophotometry, tristimulus colorimetry and computerized image analysis are well codified methods. Epidermal melanisation is detected with great sensitivity under ultraviolet light illumination.
Helioderma, heliophiles and heliophobes]	The cumulative effect of lifelong sun exposures induces skin alterations which are coined helioderma. The manifestations of helioderma vary according to the body site. This is particularly the case for the prominent differences in the expression of solar elastosis. This condition is commonly more severe on the face and nape of the neck than on the forearms and back of the hands. The age, phototype and behaviour regarding sun exposure are cofactors responsible for the severity of solar elastosis.
Fluorescence imaging method for in vivo pH monitoring during liposomes uptake in rat liver using a pH-sensitive fluorescent dye.	Liposomes are known to be taken up by the liver cells after intravenous injection. Among the few techniques available to follow this process in vivo are perturbed angular correlation spectroscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, and scintigraphy. The study of the intracellular pathways and liposomal localization in the different liver cells requires sacrifice of the animals, cells separation, and electronic microscopy. In the acidic intracellular compartments, the in situ rate of release of liposomes remains poorly understood. We present a new method to follow the in situ and in vivo uptake of liposomes using a fluorescent pH-sensitive probe 5,6-carboxyfluorescein (5,6-CF). 5,6-CF is encapsulated in liposomes at high concentration (100 mM) to quench its fluorescence. After laparotomy, liposomes are injected into the penile vein of Wistar rats. Fluorescence images of the liver and the skin are recorded during 90 min and the fluorescence intensity ratio is calculated. Ratio kinetics show different profiles depending on the liposomal formulation. The calculated intracellular liver pH values are, respectively, 4.5 to 5.0 and 6.0 to 6.5 for DSPC/chol and DMPC liposomes. After sacrifice and flush with a cold saline solution, the pH of the intracellular site of the liver (ex vivo) is found to be 4.5 to 5.0. This value can be explained by an uptake of liposomes by the liver cells and subsequent localization into the acidic compartment. An intracellular event such as dye release of a drug carrier (liposomes loaded with a fluorescent dye) can be monitored by pH fluorescence imaging and spectroscopy in vivo and in situ.
Low-dose exposure to gamma rays induces specific gene regulations in normal human keratinocytes.	Skin is the organ most exposed to various environmental aggressors, including ionizing radiation. Low-dose and low-dose-rate exposures to gamma rays account for most occupational, medical or environmental irradiations. To examine whether this type of exposure triggers specific molecular responses, cultured primary keratinocytes isolated from adult normal skin were irradiated with single acute doses of 1 cGy or 2 Gy. DNA microarrays containing 10,500 probes were used to assess transcriptional changes over a time course between 3 and 72 h postirradiation. Keratinocytes were studied at a differentiated stage to mimic the response of cells from the suprabasal layers of the epidermis. A major finding of this study was the identification of an important number of low-dose-specific genes (140), most of which were modulated at 48 h. Clustering analysis also revealed low-dose-specific profiles. One of these clusters (17 known genes) was further analyzed using Gibbs sampling algorithm, which led to the identification of 7 putative promoter sequences. These results show for the first time that low-dose ionizing radiation is able to induce specific transcriptional responses in human keratinocytes. Our findings support the potential usefulness of microarrays in biological dosimetry studies after low-dose exposures.
Distribution of EGF and its receptor in growing red deer antler.	Autografts of the osteogenic part of early antler buds placed elsewhere on the skull have been shown by others to give rise to an antler at the site of grafting. This antler becomes covered in velvet skin, is shed at the end of the growing season and will regrow the following year. Thus, it can be concluded that the nature of antler velvet skin is primarily determined by the underlying osteogenic antler tissue to which it is attached. We hypothesise that a paracrine mechanism operates here and is central to communication between the antler osseous compartment and the integument. A signalling system comprising epidermal growth factor (EGF) and its receptor (EGFR) is known to be expressed in osteogenic cells and to play an important role in skin development and growth. This system may therefore play a significant role in determining the nature and speed of growth of velvet skin via paracrine signalling from osteogenic tissue. We have used bright-field microscope immunohistochemistry to determine the distribution of EGF and its receptor in developing red deer antler osseous compartment and integument. EGF was localized throughout the epidermis and epidermal appendages, in cells of the mesenchyme, in chondrocytes, and in cells of the osteoblastic lineage, including osteoprogenitor cells, osteoblasts and osteocytes. There was strong evidence supporting nuclear and nucleolar staining in sebaceous glands and in keratinocytes. The EGFR was similarly expressed in mesenchyme, chondrocytes and osteoblasts. In skin, the distribution of the EGFR was more localized, being expressed strongly in the deeper cells of the epidermis but not in superficial layers, and was absent from nuclei of cells of the epidermis and its appendages. We conclude that this signalling system is widely distributed in growing antler in a manner which suggests it is predominantly autocrine. No clear-cut evidence for paracrine signalling pathways for this system in either integument or osseous compartments was found. The pattern of distribution of the EGFR in the integument was similar to that seen by others in adult human skin. By contrast, in developing antler osseocartilage, the patterns of distribution were similar to those seen in rodent fetal bone. We conclude that antler consists of rapidly growing fetal osseocartilage overlayed by mature velvet.
Inflammation and extracellular matrix degradation mediated by activated transcription factors nuclear factor-kappaB and activator protein-1 in inflammatory acne lesions in vivo.	Acne is the most common skin disease, causing significant psychosocial problems for those afflicted. Currently available agents for acne treatment, such as oral antibiotics and isotretinoin (Accutane), have limited use. Thus, development of novel agents to treat this disease is needed. However, the pathophysiology of acne inflammation is poorly understood. Before new therapeutic strategies can be devised, knowledge regarding molecular mechanisms of acne inflammation is required. We report here that transcription factors nuclear factor-kappaB and activator protein-1 are activated in acne lesions with consequent elevated expression of their target gene products, inflammatory cytokines and matrix-degrading metalloproteinases, respectively. These elevated gene products are molecular mediators of inflammation and collagen degradation in acne lesions in vivo. This new knowledge enables a rational strategy for development of pharmacological agents that can target the inflammation and matrix remodeling that occurs in severe acne.
Hydrolyzable tannins: potent inhibitors of hydroperoxide production and tumor promotion in mouse skin treated with 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate in vivo.	The anti-oxidant and the anti-tumor-promotion activities of several hydrolyzable tannins (HTs), including a commercial tannic-acid (TA) mixture, were examined in mouse skin treated with 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) in vivo. A single application of TPA gradually increases the hydroperoxide (HPx)-producing activity of the epidermis, which is maximally stimulated at 3 days and returns to control levels at 9 days. Pre-treatments with TA and ellagic acid (EA) strongly inhibit, in a dose-dependent manner, this HPx response to TPA. Total inhibition by TA lasts for about 16 hr, beyond which it is substantially reduced but not completely lost. TA can also reduce the level of epidermal HPx when it is applied 36 hr after the tumor promoter. EA is an antioxidant 10 times more potent than TA and n-propyl gallate (PG), which are equally effective against TPA-induced HPx production. Gallic acid is the least effective of the HTs in inhibiting HPx formation. TA also inhibits the production of HPx induced by several structurally different tumor promoters and the greater HPx responses produced by repeated TPA treatments. When applied 20 min before each promotion treatment, twice a week for 45 weeks, several HTs inhibit the incidence and yield of papillomas and carcinomas promoted by TPA in initiated skin. Overall, TA is more effective than EA and PG in inhibiting skin-tumor promotion by TPA, suggesting that the anti-oxidant effects of HTs are essential but not sufficient for their anti-tumor-promotion activity.
Pep-1 as a novel probe for the in situ detection of hyaluronan.	Hyaluronan (HA) is expressed by most tissues, including skin. Localization of HA in the skin is assessed by histology with HA-binding protein (HABP) serving as the probe. Reports have suggested that HA expression in skin is altered in a number of diseases. However, interlaboratory variations in HABP staining profiles, even in normal skin, suggest a need to standardize methods and/or identify new probes. We report the staining patterns of a HA-binding peptide (termed "Pep-1") in human and mouse skin. After acetone fixation, Pep-1 stained HA in the intercellular spaces of the epidermis, whereas staining in the dermis was weak and diffuse in both human and mouse skin. HABP staining of the epidermis and dermis were comparable in human skin but failed to stain the vital epidermis of mouse skin. In human skin, Pep-1 stained the basal, spinous, and granular layers, whereas HABP failed to stain the basal layer. Precipitation of HA in situ resulted in dermal staining but weak staining in the epidermis for HABP and Pep-1. Our results may suggest that Pep-1 is sensitive to HA conformation. Furthermore, Pep-1 may represent a new probe to study HA expression in the skin.
Acyclovir bioavailability in human skin.	Clinical experience demonstrates that oral acyclovir (ACV) is superior to topical ACV in treating recurrent cutaneous herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) infections. Cutaneous HSV-1 infections are complex in their pathology, affecting the basal epidermis in skin as well as establishing a latency phase in sensory ganglia. In vitro and in vivo human skin model systems were used in the present study to quantitate ACV disposition and absorption in skin and blood following two routes of administration and to investigate whether bioavailability differences were the result of insufficient drug delivery. Physiochemical and physiologic parameters determined from these experiments were used to develop a mathematical model to predict ACV disposition and absorption in human subjects. Model predictions and in vivo data agree; topical administration of commercial 5% ACV ointment and cream result in a 48 times greater total epidermal ACV concentration than after oral administration. Mathematical modeling of the ACV concentration gradient through the epidermis revealed, however, that the drug concentration in the target site of HSV-1 infections, the basal epidermis, is 2-3 times less after topical administration than after oral administration. Thus, the observed lack of clinical efficacy with topical ACV therapy in the recurring HSV-1 infection likely reflects the insufficient delivery of the drug to the target site of the HSV-1 infection, the basal epidermis.
Glucose transport is equally sensitive to insulin stimulation, but basal and insulin-stimulated transport is higher, in human omental compared with subcutaneous adipocytes.	Excess visceral fat has been found to correlate more closely with morbidity than subcutaneous fat. We found that isolated adipocytes from omental fat of nondiabetic women expressed significantly more of the insulin-regulated glucose transporter glucose transporter 4 protein and exhibited a higher basal and insulin-stimulated rate of glucose transport, at all concentrations of insulin, than subcutaneous adipocytes from the same individuals. In contrast, dose-response relationships for insulin stimulation of glucose transport demonstrated identical sensitivity to insulin in adipocytes from the 2 locations. The results demonstrate that there is no relative insulin resistance to stimulate glucose uptake in visceral compared with subcutaneous fat cells.
A case of lupus erythematosus profundus with unusual manifestations.	We describe a 16-year old female with lupus erythematosus panniculitis with unusual manifestations. She had noted to have developed erythematous nodules and plaques in the right axilla and inguinal region at the age of one year. These lesions resolved gradually with scar formation. However, new lesions were noted at the same locations in the following years. Some of her lesions at the scalp and the left axillary regions developing within the last two years slowly enlarged showing an annular configuration and subsequently resulted in hair loss. The erythematous border of her lesion in the left axilla consisted of two parallel red lines. Histopathological and direct immunofluorescent findings were consistent with lupus erythematosus panniculitis. Similar clinical findings in the same locations were also observed in the mother.
Plasma and skin concentrations of polyunsaturated fatty acids before and after supplementation with n-3 fatty acids in dogs with atopic dermatitis.	To determine essential fatty acid concentrations in plasma and tissue before and after supplementation with n-3 fatty acids in dogs with atopic dermatitis.
Skin tissue cholesterol assay correlates with presence of coronary calcium.	Keratinocytes maintain cholesterol homoeostasis using LDL and HDL-scavenger receptor pathways implicated in atherosclerosis. We tested whether skin tissue cholesterol (SkTC) is associated with subclinical atherosclerosis, assessed using carotid intima-medial thickness (IMT) and coronary artery calcification (CAC).
Transdermal iontophoresis: combination strategies to improve transdermal iontophoretic drug delivery.	For several decades, there has been interest in using the skin as a port of entry into the body for the systemic delivery of therapeutic agents. However, the upper layer of the skin, the stratum corneum, poses a barrier to the entry of many therapeutic entities. Given a compound, passive delivery rate is often dependent on two major physicochemical properties: the partition coefficient and solubility. The use of chemical enhancers and modifications of the thermodynamic activity of the applied drug are two frequently employed strategies to improve transdermal permeation. Chemical enhancers are known to enhance drug permeation by several mechanisms which include disrupting the organized intercellular lipid structure of the stratum corneum , 'fluidizing' the stratum corneum lipids , altering cellular proteins, and in some cases, extracting intercellular lipids . However, the resulting increase in drug permeation using these techniques is rather modest especially for hydrophilic drugs. A number of other physical approaches such as iontophoresis, sonophoresis, ultrasound and the use of microneedles are now being studied to improve permeation of hydrophilic as well as lipophilic drugs. This article presents an overview of the use of iontophoresis alone and in conjunction with other approaches such as chemical enhancement, electroporation, sonophoresis, and use of microneedles and ion-exchange materials.
IV-IVC for topically applied preparations--a critical evaluation.	In vitro-in vivo correlation (IV-IVC) is the relationship between an in vitro parameter (drug release or other rheological properties/measurement such as viscosity and spreadability) and an in vivo parameter (pharmacodynamic (PD) or dermatopharmacokinetic (DPK) or other measurement). In a true sense of correlation, in vitro measurement should predict in vivo performance of the product. For topically applied preparations, one of the in vitro measurements is the drug release from the formulation and in vivo measurement is the drug concentration in the stratum corneum, DPK or the PD measurements. The in vitro release of the drug is the property of the dosage form and is a measure of product quality and 'sameness', especially after certain Scale-UP and Post Approval Changes after initial drug approval. To obtain an IV-IVC for a topically applied drug product is a difficult challenge. However, some success has been achieved in showing a relationship between the drug release and PD and/or DPK measurement. Interestingly, one of the in vitro rheological properties was found to relate to the observed PD and DPK response for Clobetasol dipropionate products. Different rheological properties of the two formulation products explained the difference in DPK results obtained by two laboratories for the same tretinoin gel products. In the scientific arena, it is difficult to obtain a classical IV-IVC even for orally administered products and is more so difficult for topically administered drug products.
Peroxidase-amplified assay of sialidase activity toward gangliosides.	Sialidase assays were carried out with the substrate, ganglioside GD1a, coated onto enzyme immunoassay plate wells. Following the incubation of GD1a with sialidase from V. cholerae, the amount of ganglioside GM1 produced was measured as follows: cholera toxin B subunit conjugated to horseradish peroxidase was added to specifically bind to GM1, and then the amount of bound peroxidase was determined in a colorimetric enzymatic assay. In the absence of detergent, linearity for the detection of GM1 was 0 to 0.5 pmol per well, and the sensitivity for sialidase detection was about 3 fmol of product formed per minute. The addition of detergent (Triton CF-54) to the assay reduced the sensitivity and increased the amount of substrate required. Application of this assay for the detection of cell-derived neutral (pH 6.5) sialidase activities in the conditioned medium of human skin fibroblasts is described.
Scabietic nodules: a dermatopathologic and immunofluorescent study.	Mites and their eggs were thought to be rarely found in nodular lesions of scabies. However, serial sections from 27 scabietic scrotal papules or nodules revealed mite parts in 22% (6/27). This supports the contention that scabietic nodules may result from persisting antigens of mite parts. In contrast to previous studies, vasculitis with fibrinoid degeneration was uncommon (3/27) in our series. This discrepancy may be due to the timing of the biopsies: 2 of 3 cases with vasculitis were associated with diffuse dense infiltration, and vasculitis may be a late event in the development of scabietic nodules. The specificity of immunoreactant deposits along the epidermodermal junction (EDJ) in scabies is controversial. In our study, direct immunofluorescence (DIF) was performed on 13 scabietic nodules. Four (31%) showed immunoreactants at the EDJ and two on blood vessels. Because of the relatively low positive rate, the low intensity of fluorescence, and 3 of 4 cases with positive immunoreactants having only a single class of immunoglobulin, the deposition may only be secondary to inflammation instead of a specific type II immunologic reaction to scabies.
Point mutation in the DNA binding domain of the androgen receptor in two families with Reifenstein syndrome.	Inadequate androgen action in genetic and gonadal males causes an intersex phenotype. We have analyzed the androgen receptor (AR) gene in male pseudohermaphrodites with normal specific binding of dihydrotestosterone in their genital skin fibroblasts. In five patients with Reifenstein syndrome we have detected a point mutation in the DNA binding domain. They are from two unrelated families and presented with perineoscrotal hypospadias and undescended testes. After puberty they showed small testes, no palpable prostate, micropenis, azoospermia, and gynecomastia. The mutation was discovered when cDNA fragments from three brothers were sequenced. For rapid detection of the mutation in heterozygous and hemizygous carriers, allele-specific PCRs and restriction-analysis techniques have been developed. Relatives of the patients, a group of normal blood donors, and other patients were screened with these methods. Among 41 intersex patients with incomplete virilization, another two brothers presenting with this mutation were identified. The mutation is a guanine-to-adenine transition at nucleotide 2314, which changes the alanine codon (GCC) immediately after the first cysteine of the second zinc finger motif of the AR into a threonine codon (ACC). The mutation was recreated in an AR expression vector, and wild-type as well as mutant ARs were expressed in COS-7 cells. Cotransfection experiments were made using a mouse mammary tumor virus-chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene. The ability of the mutant receptor to stimulate transcription of the reporter gene was reduced by about two-thirds, as compared with the wild-type receptor.
Copper deficiency and pigmentation in the rat: morphofunctional aspects.	The effects of a low copper diet on pigmentation, pigment cell and melanosome morphology have been investigated in ACI/T male rats. After a three months treatment the fur and skin pigmentation is reduced as compared to the controls. The melanocytes of the treated rats show the phenotype of active pigment cells while some melanosomes are abnormally differentiated: both lamellar and granular organelles are present in the same pigment cell and mosaic age melanosomes appear. The abnormal melanosome structure expressed by the treated-rat melanocytes is also evident in vitro. After incubation with deoxycholate the melanosomes from the low-copper diet treated rats are much more altered than those from the control rats. The phenotype of the rats starved for copper seems to mimic as regards pigmentation the phenotype of the mouse Mo (mottled) mutation that is an experimental model of the Menkes' kinky hair syndrome. In conclusion copper deficiency seems to affect both the morphology and function of the pigment cells.
Inhibitory effect of topical application of a green tea polyphenol fraction on tumor initiation and promotion in mouse skin.	A green tea polyphenol fraction was evaluated for its ability to inhibit tumor initiation by polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and tumor promotion by a phorbol ester in the skin of CD-1 mice. Topical application of the green tea polyphenol fraction inhibited benzo[a]pyrene- and 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]-anthracene-induced tumor initiation as well as 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-induced tumor promotion. Topical application of the green tea polyphenol fraction also inhibited TPA-induced inflammation, ornithine decarboxylase activity, hyperplasia and hydrogen peroxide formation. Studies with individual polyphenolic compounds in green tea indicated that topical application of (-)-epigallocatechin gallate, (-)-epigallocatechin and (-)-epicatechin gallate inhibited TPA-induced inflammation in mouse epidermis.
Molecular dosimetry of DNA adducts in C3H mice treated with bisphenol A diglycidylether.	The formation of a glycidaldehyde-DNA adduct in skin of C3H mice treated with [14C]bisphenol A diglycidylether has been previously reported and it was assumed that the modification occurred on guanine residues. We were interested in elucidating the structure of this glycidaldehyde-DNA adduct by using a non-radioactive approach. Male C3H mice were treated with a single topical dose of 2 mg bisphenol A diglycidylether in acetone for 48, 96 or 192 h. An additional two mice were treated with 2 mg glycidaldehyde in acetone for 24 h. Epidermal DNA was isolated and enzymatically digested to nucleoside-3'-monophosphates. Aliquots of the DNA hydrolysates were separated on HPLC using a reverse-phase column with a potassium dihydrogen phosphate/methanol gradient. Fluorescence analysis of the eluent indicated the presence of a fluorescent DNA adduct, which was identified as hydroxymethylethenodeoxyadenosine-3'-monophosphate by comparison with a synthetic reference standard. Amounts of adducts were determined by fluorescence measurements using a calibration curve obtained with the authentic adduct standard. Irrespective of duration of exposure, all DNA hydrolysates of treated mice contained similar amounts of the deoxyadenosine adduct. The alkylation frequency was 0.1-0.8 and 166 adducts/10(6) normal nucleotides for the treatment with bisphenol A diglycidylether and glycidaldehyde respectively. The limit of detection using 500 micrograms DNA samples for analysis was approximately 0.03 adducts/10(6) normal nucleotides.
Correlation between decreased collagen production in diabetic animals and in cells exposed to diabetic serum: response to insulin.	Collagen production has been shown to be decreased in costal cartilage from nondiabetic animals after incubation with diabetic rat serum. Since collagen was decreased to a similar degree in tissues from diabetic animals, we questioned whether altered collagen production in vivo could be related to altered production induced in vitro. Collagen and noncollagen protein production in articular cartilage from diabetic animals (production in vivo) was compared to protein production in dermal fibroblasts from non-diabetic rats exposed to serum from the same diabetic rats (production in vitro). Diabetes was induced by intravenous administration of 90 mg/kg of streptozotocin into male Sprague-Dawley rats. Cartilage was removed and incubated with [3H]-proline for 2 hours at 37 degrees C (in vivo), while fibroblasts were exposed to experimental serum from individual animals for 24 hours with addition of 5 microCi of [5-3H]-proline for the final 6 hours (in vitro). Collagen and noncollagen protein production were quantitated using purified bacterial collagenase. Collagen production in cartilage decreased to 46% (p less than .01) and noncollagen to 68% (p less than .05) of levels in control animals. Fibroblasts exposed to 2.5% diabetic serum decreased collagen and noncollagen protein production to levels of 30% (p less than .01) and 54% (p less than .05) of production in cells incubated in 2.5% normal rat serum. Correlation between defective collagen production in cartilage from individual rats and the effects of their own serum on collagen production in fibroblasts was significant (r = 0.84, p less than 0.001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Skin metabolism]	The skin, one of the organs which accounts for the largest proportion of total body weight, was long viewed only as a passive physical barrier between the body from the environment. Over the last ten years, many studies have demonstrated significant metabolic processes in the skin, due in particular to the effects of enzymes which are located mainly in the epidermis. This skin metabolism has a marked effect on percutaneous penetration of xenobiotics. In this review, enzyme activities detected in the skin and their location in the various skin layers are discussed, as well as the different in vitro and in vivo models for studying skin metabolism. Pharmacologic or toxic effects of active ingredients or their metabolites may be associated with the nature and magnitude of transformations of xenobiotics in the skin (first pass effect). The impact of skin metabolism on the effects of topically applied drugs and the factors capable of modulating skin biotransformations are discussed. The main difficulties faced by skin metabolism studies stem from the relatively complex structure of skin and in the low levels of enzymatic activities.
Effects of high hydrostatic pressures on the activity of the membrane ATPases of some organs implicated in hydromineral regulation.	1. The effects of high hydrostatic pressures have been studied on the ATPases extracted from tissues implicated in iono- and osmoregulation of a frog and various teleostean fishes. Pressure affects enzyme activity in the same qualitative way, whatever the tissue and the species considered. 2. The Mg2+ ATPase activity is maximally enhanced at 250 kg/cm2. A slight inhibition is observed at higher pressures up to 1000 kg/cm2. 3. The (Na+ + K+)ATPase is little affected by low pressures but strongly inhibited at 500 kg/cm2 and more. 4. The results are discussed in terms of pressure effects on the recently described protein-lipid interaction linked to ATPase activity.
Aldosterone as a factor regulating extracellular fluid volume.	This review focuses on the fact that, for aldosterone to play its role as a regulator of blood volume through its sodium-retaining action, chloride must be retained as well. In fact, amphibian skin reacts to this hormone in terms of chloride conductance as well as active transepithelial sodium transport, both of which increase. The ions move along distinct transepithelial pathways, the principal cells being involved in sodium transport, and mitochondria-rich cells in chloride movement. In this context, it is relevant to emphasize that the collecting duct of mammalian nephron is also heterogeneous in terms of cell types.
Sun exposure related methylation in malignant and non-malignant skin lesions.	We investigated the aberrant promoter methylation status of 12 genes in skin lesions, both malignant (basal cell carcinomas (BCCs), n=68 and squamous cell carcinomas (SCCs), n=35) and non-malignant (tags, n=58) skin lesions and compared the results of lesions from sun exposed (SE) and sun protected (SP) regions. Methylation was studied using a methylation specific PCR (MSP) and methylation of CDH1 was also measured using a semi-quantitative fluorescence based real-time MSP method. The methylation index (MI) was calculated as the methylated fraction of the genes examined. In this report, we found high frequencies of methylation of several known or suspected tumor suppressor genes in tags and skin cancers. Among the 12 genes, for the cadherin genes CDH1 and CDH3 and for two of the laminin 5 encoding genes LAMA3 and LAMC2 methylation frequencies greater than 30% were noted in one or more specimen types. We investigated whether methylation was tumor related. Surprisingly, the differences in the methylation profile of genes among the three specimen types were modest, and the MI, indicators of overall methylation frequencies, was nearly identical. However, significant differences were noted in the frequencies of methylation among the three specimen types for the genes RASSF1A (P=0.002), CDH1 (P=0.007) and one or more of three CAD genes (P=0.02). Methylation was highly significantly related to sun exposure, and sun protected specimens had little or no methylation. As methylation of CDH1 was completely SE specific we analyzed all the skin samples using a semi-quantitative real-time PCR assay for the CDH1 gene. The concordance between standard MSP and real-time MSP for all the samples (n=161) was 75% (P<0.0001). While weak signals were detected in the SP samples by real time PCR, the differences between SE and SP specimens were 148 fold for tags and 390 fold for BCCs. These differences were highly significant (P<0.0001). These findings suggest that methylation commences in UV exposed skin at a relatively early age and occurs in skin prior to the onset of recognizable preneoplastic changes.
Ras mutation promotes p53 activation and apoptosis of skin keratinocytes.	Previous studies in our laboratory demonstrated that 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene/12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (DMBA/TPA) treatment induced apoptosis and mitochondrial translocation of the tumor suppressor p53 in a mouse skin carcinogenesis model, suggesting that oncogenic versus cell death signaling involve a common mediator. Mutational activation of oncogenic Ras is an early event and has been demonstrated to play a critical role in skin carcinogenesis. A malignant skin keratinocyte cell line (308), which carries a H-ras mutation at codon 61, showed elevated p53 levels, increased caspase 3 activity and enhanced apoptosis after TPA treatment. In contrast, the non-malignant counterpart (C50) showed undetectable levels of p53 and less apoptosis than 308 cells similarly treated. Inhibition of NADPH-oxidase (NOX) by diphenyleneiodonium suppressed p53 activation and apoptosis in 308 cells, linking Ras mutation to NOX-induced p53 activation, which was further supported by the finding that siRNA to Rac1 inhibited p53 activation after TPA treatment. Application of DPI to DMBA-initiated skin tissue significantly blocked TPA-mediated increased p53 levels and reduced apoptosis in skin epidermal tissues. Taken together, our results suggest that NOX bridges oncogenic activation and p53 mitochondrial translocation to apoptosis in the multistage chemical-induced skin carcinogenesis model.
The native anti-glucocorticoid paradigm.	Circulating 3beta-hydroxysteroids including dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) are 7alpha-hydroxylated by the cytochrome P450-7B1 in the liver, skin and brain, which are the target organs of glucocorticoids. Anti-glucocorticoid effects with 7alpha-hydroxy-DHEA were observed in vivo without an interference with glucocorticoid binding to its receptor. In the organs mentioned above, the circulating inactive cortisone was reduced into active cortisol by the 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11beta-HSD1). We demonstrated that 7alpha-hydroxy-DHEA was also a substrate for this enzyme. Studies of the 11beta-HSD1 action on 7alpha-hydroxy-DHEA showed the reversible production of 7beta-hydroxy-DHEA through an intermediary 7-oxo-DHEA, and the kinetic parameters favored this production over that of active glucocorticoids. Both the production of 7alpha-hydroxysteroids and their interference with the activation of cortisone into cortisol are basic to the concept of native anti-glucocorticoids efficient at their production site. This opens a promising new area for research.
In vitro studies of copper release from powder particles in synthetic biological media.	The aim of this paper is to provide quantitative data on copper release from powder particles of different copper materials, including artificial copper patina, Cu(2)O and metallic Cu, when exposed to different synthetic biological media to simulate an inhalation scenario and/or skin contact. Generated data may contribute in risk assessment of potential health effects following exposure to and handling of various copper materials. All tests were performed in vitro to determine total copper concentrations, release rates of total copper, and to elucidate its time-dependence. The copper release process was interpreted in terms of specific surface area, surface morphology-, and composition. All powder materials show a time-dependent release process with total copper release rates less than 3 microg/cm(2) per hour at steady state conditions, for all media investigated. The importance of using relevant test media when simulating different interstitial lung conditions and difficulties encountered when comparing powder particles of essentially different properties are thoroughly discussed.
Differential expression of peptidoglycan recognition protein 2 in the skin and liver requires different transcription factors.	Human peptidoglycan recognition protein 2 (PGLYRP2) is an N-acetylmuramoyl-L-alanine amidase that hydrolyzes bacterial peptidoglycan and is differentially expressed in the two major organs in the human body, liver and skin. PGLYRP2 has a high constitutive expression in the liver but is not expressed in healthy human skin. PGLYRP2 mRNA is also not expressed in cultured human keratinocytes but is highly induced upon exposure to bacteria. In this study we identified the transcription start site for pglyrp2 and demonstrated that the differential expression of PGLYRP2 in hepatocytes and keratinocytes is regulated by different transcription factors whose binding sequences are located in different regions of the pglyrp2 promoter. Induction of pglyrp2 in keratinocytes is regulated by sequences in the distal region of the promoter and requires transcription factors NF-kappaB and Sp1, whereas constitutive expression of pglyrp2 in a hepatocyte cell line is regulated by sequences in the proximal region of the promoter and requires transcription factors c-Jun and ATF2. Regulation of constitutive and inducible expression of pglyrp2 is important for systemic and local innate immune responses to bacterial infections.
Cyclosporin A suppresses ICAM-1 expression by papillary endothelium in healing psoriatic plaques.	To analyze the mode of action of Cyclosporin A (CsA) in psoriasis, we examined the phenotypic profile of resident and passenger skin cells in seven psoriatic patients before and after 2 weeks of CsA treatment using a large panel of monoclonal antibodies in a three-step immunoperoxidase technique. For comparison, skin biopsies from psoriatic patients receiving psoralen + UVA (PUVA) therapy were examined. Although both treatment protocols were equally effective in inducing resolution of psoriatic lesions, the phenotypic changes induced by CsA differed greatly from those seen after PUVA. In CsA-treated patients there was a dramatic reduction in the ICAM-1 expression by papillary endothelial cells, but density, pattern, and phenotype of infiltrating inflammatory cells remained essentially unchanged. In contrast, PUVA therapy had no visible effect on ICAM-1 expression by papillary endothelial cells, but resulted in a significant reduction of the hemopoietic resident and infiltrating mononuclear cells within the epidermis. These results favor, but do not prove, the assumption that the CsA regimen chosen in this study exerts its anti-psoriatic effect primarily at the level of the keratinocyte, i.e., by inhibiting events leading to keratinocyte proliferation as well as by interfering with the secretion of mediators responsible for ICAM-1 expression by papillary endothelial cells.
Yeast-binding C-type lectin with opsonic activity from conger eel (Conger myriaster) skin mucus.	A mannose-specific lectin with agglutination activity against a yeast, Saccharomyces serevisiae, was purified from conger eel (Conger myriaster) skin mucus. The lectin, named conCL-s, has a tetrameric structure consisting of two non-covalently associated dimers whose constituent monomers with a molecular mass of about 16,000 Da are linked by a disulphide bond. conCL-s is composed of 173 amino acid residues including a 24-residue signal peptide, and belongs to the C-type lectin family, which is typically characterized by binding to sugar in a Ca2+-dependent manner. Nevertheless, conCL-s showed Ca2+-independent activity in its yeast-binding. The gene expression of the lectin was widely detected in external and internal mucosal tissues, i.e., skin, gills, tongue, buccal cavity wall and esophagus. In these tissues, mRNA of conCL-s was exclusively distributed in club cells, which are one of the major components of the epidermis and mucosal epithelium in Anguilliforme species. conCL-s showed agglutination activity to a bacterium, Escherichia coli. Furthermore, attachment of the lectin to microspheres significantly enhanced their phagocytosis in conger eel macrophages. These findings suggest that conCL-s acts as an opsonin and plays an important role in the innate immunity on the body surface in conger eels.
Skin hypoxia: a promoting environmental factor in melanomagenesis.	Melanomagenesis is a complex phenomenon in which environmental, genetic and host factors play a role. Sun burns in early childhood are a known risk factor in melanoma development. Alteration of prosurvival genes such as Ras and Akt and loss of function of the p16(INK4a)-CDK4/6-pRb and p14(ARF)-HDM2-p53 pathways are strongly associated with human melanoma. We have demonstrated that normally occurring skin hypoxia represents a previously unappreciated host promoting factor in melanomagenesis. Melanocytes that express oncogenes such as Akt, and are therefore genetically unstable, show a transform phenotype only in a mild hypoxic environment that resembles the hypoxic status of the skin. Hypoxia, therefore, is not just a prerogative of advanced neoplasia; physiologic tissue hypoxia, through the activity of HIF1alpha, can function as a promoting factor in tumorigenesis.
Mitochondrial DNA depletion and thymidine phosphate pool dynamics in a cellular model of mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalomyopathy.	Mitochondrial (mt) neurogastrointestinal encephalomyopathy (MNGIE) is an autosomal recessive disease associated with depletion, deletions, and point mutations of mtDNA. Patients lack a functional thymidine phosphorylase and their plasma contains high concentrations of thymidine and deoxyuridine; elevation of the corresponding triphosphates probably impairs normal mtDNA replication and repair. To study metabolic events leading to MNGIE we used as model systems skin and lung fibroblasts cultured in the presence of thymidine and/or deoxyuridine at concentrations close to those in the plasma of the patients, a more than 100-fold excess relative to controls. The two deoxynucleosides increased the mt and cytosolic dTTP pools of skin fibroblasts almost 2-fold in cycling cells and 8-fold in quiescent cells. During up to a two-month incubation of quiescent fibroblasts with thymidine (but not with deoxyuridine), mtDNA decreased to approximately 50% without showing deletions or point mutations. When we removed thymidine, but maintained the quiescent state, mtDNA recovered rapidly. With thymidine in the medium, the dTTP pool of quiescent cells turned over rapidly at a rate depending on the concentration of thymidine, due to increased degradation and resynthesis of dTMP in a substrate (=futile) cycle between thymidine kinase and 5'-deoxyribonucleotidase. The cycle limited the expansion of the dTTP pool at the expense of ATP hydrolysis. We propose that the substrate cycle represents a regulatory mechanism to protect cells from harmful increases of dTTP. Thus MNGIE patients may increase their consumption of ATP to counteract an unlimited expansion of the dTTP pool caused by circulating thymidine.
Novel function of the skin in calcium metabolism in female and male chickens (Gallus domesticus).	To study the role of the skin in differential calcium metabolism in White Leghorn chickens, we compared the composition of suction blister fluid (SBF) collected from cutaneous blisters with blood and serum in female and male animals in various physiological states. As an estimate for interstitial fluid (IF), SBF was used as a determinant of local cutaneous metabolism. Sample collection was carried out under ketamine-xylazine anesthesia. Eight chickens of both sexes were raised freely in similar environmental conditions and fed with similar food during their growth from juvenile to sexually mature and fully adult state. SBF, blood and serum were examined for concentrations of ionized Ca2+, Na+ and K+ with ion-selective electrodes (ISEs), and osmolalities by freezing point osmometry. pH and total protein content were also assessed. Our results showed that SBF of chickens is calcium-poor at the juvenile state and that it draws more Ca2+ in adult males than laying females of the same age. Interestingly, Ca2+ accumulation was observed also in females after laying had ceased. There was a positive correlation between blood and SBF Ca2+ in females but a negative one in males. In general, it was found that SBF of chickens was rich in Na+ and K+, was hypertonic compared to serum at the juvenile state and had a protein content of 36-47% of that in serum. Different from mammals, SBF in adult chickens was alkaline with the mean values of 8.7+/-0.14 in females and 8.8+/-0.06 in males. Age- and sex-related variability in cutaneous Ca2+ concentrations in chickens, and the differences of SBF composition between that of mammals point to a novel role of skin functions in avians. Possible functions of the skin as a dynamic calcium source balancing the free circulating Ca2+ levels and, also, as an excretory organ for Ca2+ are discussed.
Ibuprofen transport into and through skin from topical formulations: in vitro-in vivo comparison.	The goal was to compare ibuprofen transport into and through skin in vivo in man and in vitro (across silicone membranes and freshly excised pig skin) from four marketed formulations. Ibuprofen gels were administered in vivo for 30 minutes. The stratum corneum (SC) at the application site was then tape-stripped, quantified gravimetrically, and extracted for drug analysis. Together with concomitant transepidermal water loss measurements, SC drug concentration-depth profiles were reproducibly determined and fitted mathematically to obtain a partition coefficient, a first-order rate constant related to ibuprofen diffusivity, and the total drug amount in the SC at the end of the application. All derived parameters were consistent across formulations. Ibuprofen permeation data through both silicone membrane and pig ear skin were also fitted to yield partitioning and diffusion parameters. The former revealed that ibuprofen partitioned differently from the gels into this model barrier. Across pig skin, however, better correlation with in vivo results was found. The dermatopharmacokinetic approach, using SC tape-stripping, offers a valid method to assess equivalency between topical drug formulations. In vitro experiments must be extrapolated cautiously to the clinic, especially when complex interactions between real formulations, which deliver both drug and excipients, and the skin occur.
Increased expression of Wnt5a in psoriatic plaques.	Psoriasis vulgaris is characterized by hyperproliferation and incomplete terminal differentiation of epidermal keratinocytes. Despite the established role of Wnt pathways in the regulation of stem cell proliferation and differentiation, they have not yet been associated with the pathophysiology of psoriasis. Here, we took biopsies from uninvolved and from lesional skin of 20 patients with plaque-type psoriasis. The biopsies were used for microarray RNA expression profiling. Based on paired samples from 13 patients, we defined 179 genes that were more than 2-fold differentially expressed in lesional skin. This list included 16 genes with known or possible association to the canonical Wnt/beta-catenin or the non-canonical Wnt/Ca2+ pathway. The expression of Wnt5a was 4-fold higher in lesional skin. Other Wnt molecules were largely unchanged (Wnt4 and Wnt16), or tended to be expressed at lower levels (Wnt7b). The mRNA expression levels of two inhibitory factors related to Wnt signaling, frizzled-related protein, and dickkopf homolog 2, were reduced in lesional skin, as was mRNA expression of cyclin D1. These findings were confirmed by quantitative reverse transcription-PCR experiments. We conclude that Wnt5a and other Wnt pathway genes are differentially expressed in psoriatic plaques. Their functional contribution to the pathophysiology of psoriasis needs to be elaborated.
Nanoemulsions as versatile formulations for paclitaxel delivery: peroral and dermal delivery studies in rats.	Pathogenesis of psoriasis involves the keratinocytes in epidermis as well as the angiogenesis involving deeper skin layers. So, the drug delivery strategy should be customized to localize paclitaxel (PCL) inside both layers. In this investigation, in order to achieve penetration of PCL into deeper skin layers while minimizing the systemic escape, a nanoemulsion (NE) was formulated and evaluated its in vivo pharmacokinetic performance. Further, the same formulation was explored for peroral bioavailability enhancement of PCL. Upon dermal application, the drug was predominantly localized in deeper skin layers, with minimal systemic escape. When orally administered as NE, PCL was rapidly absorbed reaching a steady-state value of 3.5 microg/ml in 30 minutes, and steady-state levels persisted up to 18 hours. This has amounted to an absolute bioavailability of 70.62%. Inhibition of P-glycoprotein efflux by D-alpha-tocopheryl polyethyleneglycol 1,000 succinate and labrasol would have contributed to the enhanced peroral bioavailability of PCL. This investigation provides direct evidence on the localization of large molecular weight, lipophilic drug, PCL, in dermis. Further, the NE formulation has enhanced the peroral bioavailability significantly to more than 70%. The developed NE formulation was safe and effective for both peroral and dermal delivery of PCL.
Pemphigus vulgaris identifies plakoglobin as key suppressor of c-Myc in the skin.	The autoimmune disease pemphigus vulgaris (PV) manifests as loss of keratinocyte cohesion triggered by autoantibody binding to desmoglein (Dsg)3, an intercellular adhesion molecule of mucous membranes, epidermis, and epidermal stem cells. Here we describe a so far unknown signaling cascade activated by PV antibodies. It extends from a transient enhanced turn over of cell surface-exposed, nonkeratin-anchored Dsg3 and associated plakoglobin (PG), through to depletion of nuclear PG, and as one of the consequences, abrogation of PG-mediated c-Myc suppression. In PV patients (6/6), this results in pathogenic c-Myc overexpression in all targeted tissues, including the stem cell compartments. In summary, these results show that PV antibodies act via PG to abolish the c-Myc suppression required for both maintenance of epidermal stem cells in their niche and controlled differentiation along the epidermal lineage. Besides a completely novel insight into PV pathogenesis, these data identify PG as a potent modulator of epithelial homeostasis via its role as a key suppressor of c-Myc.
Bioequivalence of topical formulations in humans: evaluation by dermal microdialysis sampling and the dermatopharmacokinetic method.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the relationship between dermal microdialysis (DMD) sampling and the dermatopharmacokinetic method when employed simultaneously for bioequivalence (BE) investigations of topical formulations. Topical lidocaine cream and ointment (both 5%) was investigated in eight healthy human volunteers (four male, four female). On one forearm, four microdialysis probes in two penetration areas sampled for 5 hours, and on the other arm, tape stripping was performed 30 and 120 minutes after product application. Lidocaine content in samples was analyzed by HPLC-mass spectrometry. The two methods were in agreement showing 3- to 5-fold higher lidocaine penetration from cream formulation than from ointment. A rank-order correlation between the two methods was demonstrated for lidocaine contents in microdialysates versus tape strip at 120 minutes, significant for the ointment formulation and for both formulations analyzed together. Analysis of variance demonstrated reproducible lidocaine concentrations in microdialysates with an intrasubject variability of 19% between probes and 20% between the two penetration areas. Thus, intersubject variability accounted for 61% of the variance. DMD sampling proved effective and variability analyses demonstrated the feasibility of BE studies in as little as 18 subjects.
Skin gene therapy for acquired and inherited disorders.	The rapid advances associated with the Human Genome Project combined with the development of proteomics technology set the bases to face the challenge of human gene therapy. Different strategies must be evaluated based on the genetic defect to be corrected. Therefore, the re-expression of the normal counterpart should be sufficient to reverse phenotype in single-gene inherited disorders. A growing number of candidate diseases are being evaluated since the ADA deficiency was selected for the first approved human gene therapy trial (Blaese et al., 1995). To cite some of them: sickle cell anemia, hemophilia, inherited immune deficiencies, hyper-cholesterolemia and cystic fibrosis. The approach does not seem to be so straightforward when a polygenic disorder is going to be treated. Many human traits like diabetes, hypertension, inflammatory diseases and cancer, appear to be due to the combined action of several genes and environment. For instance, several wizard gene therapy strategies have recently been proposed for cancer treatment, including the stimulation of the immune system of the patient (Xue et al., 2005), the targeting of particular signalling pathways to selectively kill cancer cells (Westphal and Melchner, 2002) and the modulation of the interactions with the stroma and the vasculature (Liotta, 2001; Liotta and Kohn, 2001).
Impaired notch signaling promotes de novo squamous cell carcinoma formation.	Signaling through Notch receptors in the skin has been implicated in the differentiation, proliferation, and survival of keratinocytes, as well as in the pathogenesis of basal cell carcinoma (BCC). To determine the composite function of Notch receptor-mediated signaling in the skin and overcome potential redundancies between receptors, conditional transgenic mice were generated that express the pan-Notch inhibitor, dominant-negative Mastermind Like 1 (DNMAML1), to repress all canonical [CBF-1/Suppressor of hairless/LAG-1 (CSL)-dependent] Notch signaling exclusively in the epidermis. Here, we report that DNMAML1 mice display hyperplastic epidermis and spontaneously develop cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) as well as dysplastic precursor lesions, actinic keratoses. Mice expressing epidermal DNMAML1 display enhanced accumulation of nuclear beta-catenin and cyclin D1 in suprabasilar keratinocytes and in lesional cells from SCCs, which was also observed in human cutaneous SCC. These results suggest a model wherein CSL-dependent Notch signaling confers protection against cutaneous SCC. The demonstration that inhibition of canonical Notch signaling in mice leads to spontaneous formation of SCC and recapitulates the disease in humans yields fundamental insights into the pathogenesis of SCC and provides a unique in vivo animal model to examine the pathobiology of cutaneous SCC and for evaluating novel therapies.
Cutaneous photosynthesis of vitamin D: an evolutionary highly-conserved endocrine system that protects against environmental hazards including UV-radiation and microbial infections.	Phytoplankton and zooplankton have been producing vitamin D for more than 500 million years. While the function of vitamin D in the physiology of lower non-vertebrate organisms is not well understood, it is known that most vertebrates need vitamin D to develop and maintain a healthy mineralized skeleton. However, recent findings have demonstrated that 1,25(OH)2D, the biologically-active vitamin D metabolite, exerts a multitude of important physiological effects independently of the regulation of calcium and bone metabolism. These new functions of vitamin D include protection against cancer and other diseases in various tissues. In this review, current knowledge of an additional new function of the cutaneous photosynthesis of vitamin D, that has recently emerged, is summarized: the role of vitamin D as an evolutionary highly-conserved endocrine system that protects the skin and other tissues against environmental hazards, including ionizing and UV-radiation, microbial infections and oxidative stress, is discussed.
Loss of the acyl-CoA binding protein (Acbp) results in fatty acid metabolism abnormalities in mouse hair and skin.	Proper fatty acid metabolism is critical for hair and skin development and maintenance. The acyl-CoA binding protein (Acbp) is a widely expressed protein that binds long-chain fatty acyl-CoA esters and plays a role in fatty acyl-CoA transport and pool formation. However, loss of function of Acbp in the whole animal has not been investigated. Here, we show that deletion of Acbp in mouse results in sebocyte hyperplasia and sparse, matted hair with a greasy appearance. Consistent with these gross abnormalities, Acbp is highly expressed in the pilosebaceous units of mouse skin as determined by Northern analysis and in situ hybridization. Loss of Acbp also results in fatty acid metabolism abnormalities, with hair lipid profiles showing altered levels of triacylglycerols and nearly co-migrating lipids. These data suggest that Acbp plays a role in triacylglycerol biosynthesis, and that regulation of this process is important for proper hair and skin development and maintenance in the mouse.
Is the osmotically inactive sodium storage pool fixed or variable?	Recently, there is renewed interest in the role of osmotically inactive Na(+) storage during Na(+) retention. Although it is well accepted that a portion of the total exchangeable Na(+) reservoir is osmotically inactive, there is current controversy as to whether the osmotically inactive Na(+) storage pool is fixed or variable during Na(+) retention. In this article, we analyze the current scientific evidence to assess whether the osmotically inactive Na(+) storage pool can be dynamically regulated. Our analysis supports the assertion that the osmotically inactive Na(+) storage pool is fixed rather than variable.
Evaluation of an eucalyptus oil containing topical drug delivery system for selected steroid hormones.	In the present study the permeation and the chemical stability of 17-beta-estradiol, progesterone, cyproterone acetate and finasteride incorporated in an eucalyptus oil containing microemulsion system have been investigated. The formulations contained 1% (w/w) of the steroid hormones. Self diffusion coefficients determined by pulsed-field-gradient spin echo NMR spectroscopy were used to characterise the microemulsion. From these results a bicontinuous structure is proposed for the multicomponent system. However a correlation between the self diffusion of the hormones in the vehicle and the transdermal flux was not indicated. Explanations for this were self assembling, formation of aggregates between the components of the microemulsion and drugs and different effects because of different solubility of the drugs. By addition of certain polymers the skin permeation rates could be improved with exception of cyproterone acetate. Beside standard diffusion experiments, the residual drug content in the skin was investigated. Drug stability was monitored by analysing the steroid hormone content in the different formulations over an observation period of 6 weeks and could be improved by polymers. In addition, viscosity measurements were performed. They indicated an influence of the polymers and drugs on the viscosity in all formulations.
RGTA OTR4120, a heparan sulfate mimetic, is a possible long-term active agent to heal burned skin.	Burn-related skin fibrosis leads to loss of tissue function and hypertrophic scar formation with damaging consequences for the patient. There is therefore a great need for an efficient agent to treat burned skin. We report that ReGeneraTing Agent (RGTA) reduces burn-induced skin alteration. The tissue-regenerating effect of RGTA OTR4120 was evaluated after 1-6 days and after 10 months in a rat skin burn model. This effect was also examined in vitro using fibroblasts isolated from control and 6-day-old burned skins. We measured production of dermal collagen I, III, and V and activities of metalloproteinases 2 and 9 (MMP-2 and MMP-9). Ratio of collagen III over collagen I production increased 6 days after the burn, because of a decrease in collagen I production. After 10 months, ratio of collagen III over collagen I in burn sites was still increased compared with control skin, because of an increase in collagen III production. Both abnormalities were corrected by OTR4120. OTR4120 increased pro- and active MMP-2 and MMP-9, compared with healthy and burned controls and therefore accelerated remodeling. Similar data were obtained with cultured fibroblasts from healthy and burned skins. OTR4120 enhanced healing in short- and long-term after burns, reducing the formation of fibrotic tissue, and then represents a potential agent to improve burned skin healing.
In vitro evaluation of quercetin cutaneous absorption from topical formulations and its functional stability by antioxidant activity.	Recently, it was demonstrated that two different formulations containing quercetin inhibit the UVB-induced cutaneous oxidative stress and inflammation. Therefore, in the present study it was evaluated the functional stability of those formulations by the antioxidant activity, the release of quercetin from the formulations, and its skin retention using modified Franz diffusion cells. Both formulations tested ((1) non-ionic emulsion with high lipid content and (2) anionic emulsion with low lipid content) remained functionally (hydrogen-donating ability) stable during 180 days. Furthermore, quercetin was released from both formulations as determined using nitrocellulose membrane. In vitro antioxidant activity of retained quercetin into the skin was observed for both formulations as detected by the inhibition of malondialdehyde formation. The effect of quercetin retention was time-dependent for formulation 1. Concluding, this study demonstrates that quercetin remains functionally stable in formulations, and measuring the antioxidant activity is an efficient approach to evaluate quercetin skin retention with minimal interference of the tissue products. Furthermore, the present results on skin retention explain the previous study on quercetin in vivo activities, and together, these data suggest that formulations containing quercetin may be used as topical active products to control UVB-mediated oxidative damage of the skin.
Isotretinoin-loaded solid lipid nanoparticles with skin targeting for topical delivery.	The purpose of this study was to construct isotretinoin-loaded SLN (IT-SLN) formulation with skin targeting for topical delivery of isotretinoin. PRECIROL ATO 5 was selected as the lipid of SLN. Tween 80 and soybean lecithin were used as the surfactants to stabilize SLN. The hot homogenization method was performed to prepare the drug-loaded SLN. The various formulations were characterized by photon correlation spectroscopy and all the SLN formulations had low average size between 30 and 50 nm. Transmission electron microscopy studies showed that the IT-SLN formulation had a spherical shape. All the formulations had high entrapment efficiency ranging from 80% to 100%. The penetration of isotretinoin from the IT-SLN formulations through skins and into skins were evaluated in vitro using Franz diffusion cells fitted with rat skins. The in vitro permeation data showed that all the IT-SLN formulations can avoid the systemic uptake of isotretinoin in skins, however the control tincture had a permeation rate of 0.76+/-0.30 microg cm(-2)h(-1) through skins. The IT-SLN consisting of 3.0% PRECIROL ATO 5, 4.0% soybean lecithin and 4.5% Tween 80 could significantly increased the accumulative uptake of isotretinoin in skin and showed a significantly enhanced skin targeting effect. The studied IT-SLN showed a good stability. These results indicate that the studied IT-SLN formulation with skin targeting may be a promising carrier for topical delivery of isotretinoin.
The effect of water solubility of solutes on their flux through human skin in vitro.	The Flynn database (n=97) for determining the effect of the physicochemical properties of solutes on their skin absorption has been edited to give a database for which the solubilities of the solutes in water, S(AQ), and their maximum fluxes from water through human skin in vitro, J(MAQ), are known or can be calculated (n=76). Data from the six major contributors to the original Flynn database have been included. Data for solutes, which were significantly ionized or for experiments using different thicknesses of skin were not excluded so that the edited database is as diverse as the original. The edited database was fit to five equations where the independent variables were solubility in octanol (S(OCT)) in water (S(AQ)) or molecular weight (MW), and combinations of those three variables; and the dependent variable was J(MAQ). The best fit was obtained from the Roberts-Sloan (RS) equation: logJ(MAQ)=x+ylogS(OCT)+(1-y)logS(AQ)-zMW, x=-3.00, y=0.73, z=0.0048, r(2)=0.934, S.D.=0.37 and F=274. This result is important because J (amount/area time) is the more clinically useful descriptor of permeation compared to P (distance/time); and because the identification of S(AQ) as a significant variable in predicting flux changes the design parameters for optimizing topical delivery of drugs from solubility in lipids (or partition coefficients between OCT and AQ, K(OCT:AQ)) and MW, to solubility in lipids, S(OCT), and in water, S(AQ), as well as MW.
Blood or plasma to skin distribution of drugs: a linear free energy analysis.	Data on distribution coefficients from blood or plasma to rat skin and rabbit skin have been compiled. From previous work on blood/plasma to brain or to muscle it is apparent that distributions from blood and plasma can be combined, and we show that it is possible to combine data on distribution to rat skin and rabbit skin. The combined set of blood/plasma distribution to rat and rabbit skin for 59 compounds, as logPskin, can be correlated through a linear free energy equation with a correlation coefficient of 0.856 and a standard deviation of 0.26 log units. The predictive capability of the equation has been assessed through training and test sets, and it is shown that the S.D. value of 0.26 log units is a good estimate of the predictive ability. The equation for logPskin has been compared to equations for a large number of possible model processes, using two mathematical methods. It is shown that there is no process amongst those we have examined that has any advantage over the present in silico linear free energy equation for the estimation of further values of logPskin.
Doxorubicin skin penetration from monoolein-containing propylene glycol formulations.	Topical chemotherapy with the antineoplastic doxorubicin (DXR) could be an alternative to treat skin cancer, however its poor skin penetration often limits the efficacy of topical formulations. The aim of this work was to study the effect of monoolein (MO), a penetration enhancer, on the in vitro skin permeation and retention of DXR. DXR was incorporated in a propylene glycol preparation containing 0-20% of MO. DXR release rate and topical delivery were evaluated in vitro using acetate cellulose membrane and porcine skin, respectively, mounted in a Franz diffusion cell. At 5%, MO did not significantly change DXR release rate, but MO concentrations larger than 10% decreased almost twice its release. In vitro skin penetration studies showed that the presence of MO in the propylene glycol formulations markedly increased DXR presence in the stratum corneum (SC). At 5%, MO significantly increased the amount of DXR in the SC already in the first hours, attained a maximum in 6h. Comparing propylene glycol formulations containing more than 10% MO with that containing 5%, the former took the double of the time (12h) to reach the same amount of DXR in the skin, result that is in agreement with in vitro release studies. Interesting, despite the fact that MO significantly increased the amount of DXR in the SC, drug transdermal delivery did not change. These findings suggest a cutaneous delivery of DXR that is an important condition for topical treatment of skin tumors. Further in vivo experiments can show DXR delivery to deeper skin layers.
N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfatase protein detection in MPS IVA patient and unaffected control samples.	Mucopolysaccharidosis type IVA (MPS IVA; Morquio syndrome) is a lysosomal storage disorder caused by a deficiency in the activity of the lysosomal hydrolase N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfatase (GALNS). MPS IVA patients can present with severe myelopathy, hearing loss, heart valve involvement, short trunk/dwarfism and corneal clouding. Early diagnosis of MPS IVA will allow potential treatments to be implemented before the onset of irreversible pathology.
Altered penetration of polyethylene glycols into uninvolved skin of atopic dermatitis patients.	Involved regions of the skin in atopic dermatitis (AD) patients have an altered barrier function. Whether uninvolved skin also has a diminished barrier is controversial. To assess the barrier function of uninvolved skin in AD patients, the percutaneous penetration of polyethylene glycols (PEGs) of various molecular sizes was determined in vivo in AD patients and control subjects using tape stripping of the stratum corneum (SC). The diffusion and partition coefficients were determined using Fick's second law of diffusion. The SC thickness was similar in both groups; however, the trans-epidermal water loss was higher in atopic skin. The apparent diffusion coefficient of PEGs through atopic skin was twice as high as through normal skin, and decreased with increasing molecular weight (MW) in both groups. The partition coefficient in the skin of AD patients was half of that for normal skin but as for normal skin, there was no MW dependency. Although atopic skin exhibited altered barrier with respect to diffusion and partitioning, the permeability coefficients were nearly the same for atopic and normal skin. The results support the assumption of altered skin barrier of AD patients even in the skin that is visibly unaffected by disease.
Tenascin expression in hyperproliferative skin diseases.	The expression of tenascin, a recently discovered extracellular matrix glycoprotein, was studied by immunohistochemistry in normal human skin and in a number of skin diseases with epidermal hyperproliferation such as psoriasis, basal cell carcinoma, Bowen's disease and solar keratosis. Tenascin expression in the upper dermis of normal skin was found to vary from almost absent to patchy along the basal membrane. Staining was continuous and intense around blood vessels, hair follicles and eccrine sweat ducts. In basal cell carcinoma a marked expression of tenascin was found in the tumour stroma, especially adjacent to the basal membrane surrounding the tumour cell nests. In Bowen's disease and solar keratosis, tenascin expression was found in the dermis next to the keratinocytes. In psoriasis the dermal papillae of clinically involved skin were intensely stained and a continuous band of tenascin was present in the upper dermis along the basal membrane. The distribution of tenascin differed from other known extracellular matrix components.
Real-time gene expression analysis in carp (Cyprinus carpio L.) skin: inflammatory responses caused by the ectoparasite Ichthyophthirius multifiliis.	Real time quantitative PCR (RQ-PCR) assays were developed for the measurement of differential real-time expression of immune-related genes in skin and whole blood from Cyprinus carpio during an infection with the ectoparasite Ichthyophthirius multifiliis. The target genes included the chemokines CXCa and CXCb, the chemokine receptors CXCR1 and CXCR2, the pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin 1 beta (IL-1beta) and tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and the enzymes inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and arginase 2. The strongest up-regulation in skin was observed in the IL-1beta, CXCR1 and iNOS genes at 36-48h post-exposure to theronts. A significant up-regulation of the genes CXCa and TNF-alpha was also observed. An up-regulation of the expression of the genes CXCa, CXCR1, IL-1beta and iNOS was likewise found in blood, although the increase in the expression levels was more moderate and the expression peak was detected earlier in comparison with the skin. In addition, CXCR2 and the arginase 2 genes were specifically induced in blood. Our results confirm the role of CXCR1 and IL-1beta as two prominent molecules involved in the initiation of the inflammatory process in fish in relation to an ectoparasite infection. Moreover, this study confirms the role of carp skin as an important source of pro-inflammatory molecules as well as an active modulator of the local inflammation. Finally, expression and regulation of the evaluated genes in blood confirm the important role of the migrated leucocytes in the immune response against I. multifiliis.
Frequent recovery of triplet mutations in UVB-exposed skin epidermis of Xpc-knockout mice.	Mutations of the Xpc gene cause a deficiency in global genome repair, a subpathway of nucleotide excision repair (NER), in mammalian cells. We used transgenic mice harboring the lambda-phage-based lacZ mutational reporter gene to study the effect of an Xpc null mutation (Xpc-/-) on damage induction, repair and mutagenesis in mouse skin epidermis after UVB irradiation. UVB induced equal amounts of cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers (CPDs) and pyrimidine(6-4)pyrimidone photoproducts (64PPs) in mouse skin epidermis of Xpc-/- and wild-type mice. CPDs were not significantly removed in either of the mouse genotypes by 12h after irradiation, whereas removal of 64PPs was observed in the wild-type. Irradiation with 300 and 400J/m2 UVB increased the lacZ mutant frequency in the Xpc-/- epidermis to at least twice as high as in the wild-type. Ninety-nine lacZ mutants isolated from the UVB-exposed epidermis of Xpc(-/-)mice were analyzed and compared with mutant sequences from irradiated wild-type mice. The spectra of the mutations in the two genotypes were both highly UV-specific and similar in the dominance of C-->T transitions at dipyrimidine sites; however, Xpc-/- mice had a higher frequency of two-base tandem substitutions, including CC-->TT mutations, three-base tandem substitutions and double base substitutions that were separated by one unchanged base in a three-base sequence (alternating mutations). These tandem/alternating mutations included a remarkably large number of triplet mutations, a recently reported, novel type of UV-specific mutation, characterized by multiple base substitutions or frameshifts within a three-nucleotide sequence containing a dipyrimidine. We concluded that the triplet mutation is a UV-specific mutation that preferably occurs in NER deficient genetic backgrounds.
Effect of selected fluorinated drugs in a "ringing" gel on rheological behaviour and skin permeation.	The purpose of the present study was to investigate the influence of different drugs exhibiting different solubility on the viscoelastic properties and on the skin diffusion profile of a ringing gel. In a preliminary rheology study with the placebo gel predominating elastic properties were confirmed and a temperature influence was indicated. Fluconazole, fludrocortisone-acetate, flumethasone-pivalate, flutamide and flufenamic-acid each 1% (w/w) were incorporated into the preparation and oscillatory measurements were performed at temperatures of 25, 28, 32 and 37 degrees C. In all drug containing formulations a high elastic G' value predominated the viscous G'' value. The highest G' value could be obtained with the incorporated flumethasone-pivalate. Additionally in almost all cases the G' values decreased with increasing temperature compared to the placebo gel. Additionally in vitro standard diffusion experiments using Franz-type cells and porcine skin were performed. Following rank order of the cumulative drug release after 48 h was obtained: fluconazole>flufenamic-acid>flumethasone-pivalate>flutamide>fludrocortisone-acetate. Furthermore an excellent chemical stability of all incorporated drugs was confirmed over 10 weeks.
Inflammation and skin cholesterol in LDLr-/-, apoA-I-/- mice: link between cholesterol homeostasis and self-tolerance?	Diet-fed low density lipoprotein receptor-deficient/apolipoprotein A-I-deficient (LDLr-/-, apoA-I-/-) mice accumulate a 10-fold greater mass of cholesterol in their skin despite a 1.5- to 2-fold lower plasma cholesterol concentration compared with diet-fed LDLr-/- mice. The accumulation of cholesterol predominantly in the skin has been shown to occur in a growing number of other hypercholesterolemic double knockout mouse models sharing deficits in genes regulating cellular cholesterol homeostasis. Exploring the relationship between cholesterol balance and inflammation, we have examined the time course of cholesterol accumulation in a number of extrahepatic tissues and correlated with the onset of inflammation in diet-fed LDLr-/-, apoA-I-/- mice. After 4 weeks of diet, LDLr-/-, apoA-I-/- mice showed a significant increase in skin cholesterol mass compared with LDLr-/- mice. In addition, after 4 weeks on the diet, cholesterol accumulation in the skin was also found to be associated with macrophage infiltration and accompanied by increases in tumor necrosis factor-alpha, cyclooxygenase-2, and langerin mRNA, which were not seen in the liver. Overall, these data suggest that as early as 4 weeks after starting the diet, the accumulation of skin cholesterol and the onset of inflammation occur concurrently. In summary, the use of hypercholesterolemic LDLr-/-, apoA-I-/- mice may provide a useful tool to investigate the role that apoA-I plays in maintaining cholesterol homeostasis and its relationship to inflammation.
A unique insertion/duplication in the VDR gene that truncates the VDR causing hereditary 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D-resistant rickets without alopecia.	Hereditary vitamin D resistant rickets (HVDRR) is caused by mutations in the vitamin D receptor (VDR). Here we describe a patient with HVDRR who also exhibited some hypotrichosis of the scalp but otherwise had normal hair and skin. A 102 bp insertion/duplication was found in the VDR gene that introduced a premature stop (Y401X). The patient's fibroblasts expressed the truncated VDR, but were resistant to 1,25(OH)2D3. The truncated VDR weakly bound [3H]-1,25(OH)2D3 but was able to heterodimerize with RXR, bind to DNA and interact with the corepressor hairless (HR). However, the truncated VDR failed to bind coactivators and was transactivation defective. Since the patient did not have alopecia or papular lesions of the skin generally found in patients with premature stop mutations this suggests that this distally truncated VDR can still regulate the hair cycle and epidermal differentiation possibly through its interactions with RXR and HR to suppress gene transactivation.
Validation of XP-C pathogenic variations in archival material from a live XP patient.	Xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) genetic complementation group C (XP-C) is the most common form of the disease worldwide. Thirty-four distinct genetic defects have been identified in 45 XP-C patients. Further identification of such defects and the frequency of their occurrence offers the potential of generating diagnostic and prognostic molecular screening panels. Archival material (such as formalin-fixed paraffin embedded skin) may be useful for the identification of novel genetic variations and for documenting the frequency of individual genetic defects in patients who are no longer available for study. However, the use of archival material precludes direct analysis of changes in the mRNA resulting from genomic changes. The serendipitous reacquisition of an XP individual in whom genetic defects were previously characterized in archival material allowed confirmation of the defects as well as a direct analysis of the consequences of these defects on mRNA, mRNA expression and on cellular phenotypes.
Familial amyloid polyneuropathy (Finnish type) in a Japanese family: Clinical features and immunocytochemical studies.	Familial amyloid polyneuropathy (FAP: type IV), known as familial amyloidosis of the Finnish type (FAF), is very rare and reported only in a few countries. The gelsolin mutation G654A is most frequent causative gene in FAF family. The clinical phenotype of FAF possesses several neurological characteristics with multiple cranial nerve signs, in addition to a peculiar exanthema of "lichen amyloidosus" and pendulous skin "cutis laxa", and the carpal tunnel syndrome. We report a new Japanese FAF family presenting bilateral atrophies and fasciculations of the facial muscles and tongue. The patients in our family presented with skin changes as "lichen amyloidosus" and "cutis laxa". In this FAF family, lichen amyloidosus appeared under sunlight and high temperatures in the summer season every year. Two patients in our family presented with common clinical features of FAF, except for the above laboratory results. Including previous cases and our family, this clinical phenotype is similar to the gelsolin gene mutation (G654A) in FAF family members.
CK2-site phosphorylation of p53 is induced in DeltaNp63 expressing basal stem cells in UVB irradiated human skin.	The activity of the tumor suppressor protein p53 is controlled by a balance between E3-ligase mediated p53 protein degradation and protein kinase-mediated assembly of p53:p300 transcription machinery. Genetic studies in mice have shown that mutation of the CK2 phospho-acceptor site in p53 increases UV-induced skin cancer formation,(11) highlighting an unexpected role for p53 phosphorylation in mediating p53-dependent tumor suppression. However, it is not known in which cell types CK2-mediated phosphorylation of p53 occurs. Using human skin as a model to determine whether there is cell-selectivity in modulating p53 phosphorylation, we have found a selective induction of p53 phosphorylation at the CK2-site in the basal cells of UV irradiated human skin. Dual-immunofluorescence also revealed that Ser392 and Ser15 phosphorylation of p53 also occur in the same basal cells, although often within distinct regions of the nucleus. Given that p63alphaDeltaN is required for p53 activation after DNA damage, we examined and found a high proportion of cells co-express p63alphaDeltaN and CK2-phosphorylated p53 after UV-irradiation. As controls, the proliferation marker Ki67 and p63alphaDeltaN generally exhibit mutually exclusive expression. These data identify a physiological model with which to identify signaling pathways that mediate cross-talk between p63alphaDeltaN and activating p53 kinase pathways after DNA damage in basal cell populations.
Patterns of glycosaminoglycan/proteoglycan immunostaining in human skin during aging.	Proteoglycans and their component glycosaminoglycans are involved in such cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions as cell adhesion and migration, processes that are essential for embryonic and fetal development. As definitive organs such as skin emerge, structurally different proteoglycans partition into highly defined compartments. In skin, these compartments correspond to morphologically and functionally distinct layers. However, during the normal aging process, the relative amounts of structurally distinct proteoglycans apparently varies independently in each of these layers. This was demonstrated, in an indirect immunocytochemical study, through the use of monoclonal antibodies that detect structurally distinct domains in glycosaminoglycan chains of proteoglycans. Using samples of normal human skin obtained from individuals ranging in age from 20 weeks of gestation to 98 years of age, we determined that a common distribution pattern existed in skin. The epidermis contained chondroitin 4- and keratan sulfates, the basal lamina was the only layer that contained chondroitin 6-sulfate, the papillary and reticular dermis contained principally dermatan sulfate. In addition, antibodies that recognize native domains in chondroitin sulfates identified proteoglycan subsets that partitioned into distinct layers. An important new finding was that the relative amounts of specific types of glycosaminoglycans varied in an age- and layer-dependent manner. In the epidermis there was a notable increase in keratan sulfate beginning at age 50. Chondroitin 6-sulfate, found principally in the basal lamina, decreased after age 60. In the papillary dermis, the amount of dermatan sulfate increased after age 50, whereas the amount of novel chondroitin sulfate epitope, detected by antibody 4C3, decreased with age. Thus, age-related changes in proteoglycan distribution exist and correlate with morphologic and functional changes that occur in the intrinsic process of aging in human skin.
Effect of PUVA radiation on anaphylactic histamine release from rat dermal tissues.	We have devised a new in vitro model of type I cutaneous anaphylaxis. Male albino rats were sensitized with DNP-Ascaris. Abdominal skin was shaved, and thin, split-thickness slices of skin were cut with a dermatome. The dermis was excised and cut into 100 mg pieces. The dermal tissue was incubated with antigen in Tyrode's solution for 30 min at 37 degrees C. Antigen-induced histamine release from dermal tissue was measured fluorimetrically. Using this system, we measured histamine release from PUVA-irradiated and non-irradiated dermal tissues. A single PUVA irradiation inhibited type I cutaneous anaphylaxis, but did not affect spontaneous histamine release or total dermal histamine. Our model is considered to be useful for investigation of the mechanism of suppression of type I cutaneous anaphylaxis by PUVA.
ASIC3 in muscle mediates mechanical, but not heat, hyperalgesia associated with muscle inflammation.	Peripheral initiators of muscle pain are virtually unknown, but likely key to development of chronic pain after muscle insult. The current study tested the hypothesis that ASIC3 in muscle is necessary for development of cutaneous mechanical, but not heat, hyperalgesia induced by muscle inflammation. Using mechanical and heat stimuli, we assessed behavioral responses in ASIC3-/- and ASIC3+/+ mice after induction of carrageenan muscle inflammation. ASIC3-/- mice did not develop cutaneous mechanical hyperalgesia after muscle inflammation when compared to ASIC3+/+ mice; heat hyperalgesia developed similarly between groups. We then tested if the phenotype could be rescued in ASIC3-/- mice by using a recombinant herpes virus vector to express ASIC3 in skin (where testing occurred) or muscle (where inflammation occurred). Infection of mouse DRG neurons with ASIC3-encoding virus resulted in functional expression of ASICs. Injection of ASIC3-encoding virus into muscle or skin of ASIC3-/- mice resulted in ASIC3 mRNA in DRG and protein expression in DRG and the peripheral injection site. Injection of ASIC3-encoding virus into muscle, but not skin, resulted in development of mechanical hyperalgesia similar to that observed in ASIC3+/+ mice. Thus, ASIC3 in primary afferent fibers innervating muscle is critical to development of hyperalgesia that results from muscle insult.
Immunohistochemical localization of histamine H3 receptors in rodent skin, dorsal root ganglia, superior cervical ganglia, and spinal cord: potential antinociceptive targets.	Activation of histamine H3 receptors (H3Rs) reduces inflammation and nociception, but the existence of H3Rs on peripheral innervation has never been demonstrated. Here we use antibodies to locate H3Rs in whisker pads, hairy and glabrous hind paw skin, dorsal root ganglia (DRGs), and spinal cords of rats, wild type mice, and H3R knockout (H3KO) mice. Although H3Rs have been hypothesized to be on C and sympathetic fibers, H3R-like immunoreactivity (H3R-LI) was only detected on presumptive periarterial A delta fibers and on A beta fibers that terminated in Meissner's corpuscles and as lanceolate endings around hair follicles. The H3R-positive periarterial fibers were thin-caliber and coexpressed immunoreactivity for calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), substance P, acid sensing ion channel 3, and 200 kDa neurofilament protein (NF). H3R-LI was also detected on epidermal keratinocytes and Merkel cells, but not on Merkel endings, C fibers, any other A delta fibers, or sympathetic fibers. In DRGs, H3R-LI was preponderantly on medium to large neurons coexpressing NF-LI and mostly CGRP-LI. In dorsal horn, CGRP-positive fibers with and without H3R-LI ramified extensively in lamina II; many of the former formed a plexus in lamina V. Low levels of H3R-LI were also present on A beta fibers penetrating superficial and into deeper laminae. The distribution of H3R-LI was similar in rats and wild type mice, but was eliminated or strongly reduced in A delta fibers and A beta fibers, respectively, in H3KO mice. Taken with recently published behavioral results, the present findings suggest that periarterial, peptidergic, H3R-containing A delta fibers may be sources of high threshold mechanical nociception.
Characterization of dog allergens Can f 1 and Can f 2. 1. Preparation of their recombinant proteins and antibodies.	Recombinant dog allergens, rCan f 1 and rCan f 2, and their antibodies are good tools for the characterization of dog allergens in order to develop modern therapeutic and preventive methods for dog allergy.
Soluble FAS ligand: a discriminating feature between drug-induced skin eruptions and viral exanthemas.	The clinical spectrum of cutaneous eruptions comprises benign variants like maculopapular rashes (MPRs) and potentially life-threatening events such as toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN). Apoptosis of keratinocytes is a common histopathological feature of all these drug eruptions. As in skin lesions of TEN and Stevens-Johnson syndrome patients, apoptosis of keratinocytes is often accompanied by an only sparse cellular infiltrate, a soluble fatty acid synthetase ligand (sFASL)-mediated mechanism of keratinocyte cell death is postulated. In MPR patients, evidence for the occurrence of a similar process could not be established so far. We therefore examined sera and lesional skin sections from patients with clinical variants of drug eruptions for FASL expression using a sandwich ELISA and immunohistochemistry, respectively. As controls, healthy persons and patients with other inflammatory skin diseases such as viral exanthema were analyzed. Elevated levels of FASL were detected not only in TEN patients but also in sera and lesional skin of patients with MPR. In contrast, sFASL was repeatedly negative in all viral exanthemas and healthy controls tested. Thus, determination of sFASL serum concentration may represent a discriminating tool between drug rashes and viral exanthemas.
Dermatopharmacokinetic prediction of topical drug bioavailability in vivo.	The overall goal of this study was to explore the potential of using stratum corneum (SC) tape-stripping, post-application of a topical drug formulation, to derive dermatopharmacokinetic parameters describing the rate and extent of delivery into the skin. Ibuprofen was administered in 75:25 v/v propylene glycol-water to the ventral forearms of human volunteers for periods ranging between 15 and 180 minutes. Subsequently, SC was tape-stripped, quantified gravimetrically, and extracted for drug analysis. Together with concomitant transepidermal water loss measurements, SC concentration-depth profiles of the drug were reproducibly determined and fitted mathematically. The SC-vehicle partition coefficient (K) and a first-order rate constant related to ibuprofen diffusivity in the membrane (D/L2, where L=SC thickness) were derived from data-fitting and characterized the extent and rate of drug absorption across the skin. Integration of the concentration profiles yielded the total drug amount in the SC at the end of the application period. Using K and D/L2 obtained from the 30-minute exposure, it was possible to predict ibuprofen uptake as a function of time into the SC. Prediction and experiment agreed satisfactorily suggesting that objective and quantitative information, with which to characterize topical drug bioavailability, can be obtained from this approach.
Expression of decorin and collagens I and III in different layers of human skin in vivo: a laser capture microdissection study.	Extracellular matrix (ECM) organization is a complex process that requires the coordinated efforts of many molecules. For the regulation of collagen fiber diameter, the proteoglycan decorin appears to be of major relevance. To investigate the role of decorin in the process of (photo-)aging in more detail, full-thickness punch biopsies were isolated from human buttock skin. Single exposure with two minimal erythemal doses of solar simulated irradiation caused down-regulation of decorin mRNA in young (n = 5) and old subjects (n = 5) after 24 h. Interestingly, decorin mRNA was elevated with age. To test the hypothesis that a decreased collagen-to-decorin-ratio impairs collagen structure we also investigated collagens I and III gene expression. Both were down-regulated with increasing age and after single UV-irradiation. As determined by laser capture microdissection-quantitative real time-Polymerase chain reaction (n = 11), decorin is mostly present in the reticular dermis while being absent from the papillary dermis. Minor expression was also observed in the epidermis. However, in contrast to full-thickness skin biopsies age-dependent changes in collagens I, III, and decorin expression could not be observed with this methodology indicating technical limitations. Together with our finding that collagens I and III mRNA are similarly expressed in the reticular and papillary dermis and are down-regulated by UV, our studies support the idea of a major role of decorin in ECM organization. Altered expression of decorin mRNA in the different dermal strata and a decrease in the collagen-to-decorin ratio inflicted by both age and ultraviolet irradiation possibly affect collagen bundle diameter and subsequently the mechanical properties of human skin.
The CD11a binding site of efalizumab in psoriatic skin tissue as analyzed by Multi-Epitope Ligand Cartography robot technology. Introduction of a novel biological drug-binding biochip assay.	Efalizumab (Raptiva) is an immunomodulating recombinant humanized IgG1 monoclonal antibody that binds to CD11a, the alpha-subunit of leukocyte function antigen-1 (LFA-1). By blocking the binding of LFA-1 to ICAM-1, efalizumab inhibits the adhesion of leukocytes to other cell types and interferes with the migration of T lymphocytes to sites of inflammation (including psoriatic skin plaques). Analysis of the response in patients treated with efalizumab to date shows that distinct groups of responders and nonresponders to the drug exist. It would therefore be of great practical value to be able to predict which patients are most likely to respond to treatment, by identifying key parameters in the mechanism of action of efalizumab. Detailed investigation and detection of multiple epitopes in microcompartments of skin tissue has until recently been restricted by the available technology. However, the newly developed technique of Multi-Epitope Ligand Cartography (MELC) robot technology combines proteomics and biomathematical tools to visualize protein networks at the cellular and subcellular levels in situ, and to decipher cell functions. The MELC technique, which is outlined in this paper, was used to help characterize the binding of efalizumab to affected and unaffected psoriatic skin as compared to normal control skin under ex vivomodel conditions. Efalizumab was labeled with fluorescein isothiocyanate and integrated into a MELC library of more than 40 antibodies. These antibodies were selected for their potential to detect epitopes which may be indicative of (a) various cell types, (b) structural components of the extracellular matrix, or (c) the processes of cell proliferation, activation and adhesion. Efalizumab bound to CD11a in affected psoriatic skin by a factor 15x and 32x higher than in unaffected psoriatic skin and normal control skin, respectively. CD11a and the efalizumab binding site were primarily expressed in the extravascular dermis, whereas CD54 (ICAM-1) as its ligand was most prevalent in the dermal vessels. T lymphocytes (for which the markers were CD3, CD8, CD4, and CD45R0) were the major cellular targets of efalizumab. In contrast, NK cells were only a minor target of efalizumab. Our study demonstrated that efalizumab represents a treatment for psoriasis that primarily targets memory CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and has a high specificity for psoriatic disease activity. Moreover, we hereby introduce the novel principle of a biological drug-binding biochip assay being especially useful for the future monitoring of psoriatic skin lesions under efalizumab treatment conditions.
Breach delivery: increased solute uptake points to a defective skin barrier in atopic dermatitis.	Evidence is now emerging for enhanced penetration of chemical solutes into uninvolved skin of atopic dermatitis patients. Along with the recent discovery of prevalent null mutations in the gene encoding filaggrin, a protein essential for stratum corneum formation, these data point to an innate epidermal-barrier defect in atopy.
Early cutaneous gene transcription changes in adult atopic dermatitis and potential clinical implications.	Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a common pruritic dermatitis with macroscopically non-lesional skin that is often abnormal. Therefore, we used high-density oligonucleotide arrays to identify cutaneous gene transcription changes associated with early AD inflammation as potential disease control targets. Skin biopsy specimens analysed included normal skin from five healthy non-atopic adults and both minimally lesional skin and nearby or contralateral non-lesional skin from six adult AD patients. Data were analysed on an individual gene basis and to identify biologically relevant gene networks. Transcription levels of selected genes were also analysed by quantitative PCR. Differential transcription occurring early in AD skin was indicated for (i) individual genes such as C-C chemokine ligand (CCL)18, CCL13, and interferon-alpha2 (IFNalpha2), (ii) genes associated with peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)alpha- and PPARgamma-regulated transcription, and possibly for (iii) immunoglobulin J-chain and heavy chain isotype transcripts. These data suggest that local changes in immunoglobulin-associated transcription may favour IgE over secretory immunoglobulin (multimeric IgM and IgA) expression in AD skin. Decreased PPAR activity appears common to both AD and psoriasis, and reduced cutaneous IFNalpha2 transcription also appears characteristic of AD. Identification of these genes and pathways will direct future research towards controlling AD.
Towards a correlation between drug properties and in vitro transdermal flux variability.	Over recent years, there has been growing evidence that the permeability coefficient variability describing any specific transdermal drug delivery system is not always normally distributed. However, since different researchers have used different test compounds, methodologies and skin types, it has been difficult to identify any general correlation between drug properties and flux variability. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether there was a relationship between these two variables. To this end, six different compounds (sucrose, adenosine, aldosterone, corticosterone, oestradiol and testosterone) exhibiting a range of partition coefficients but relatively similar molecular weights were screened by taking multiple replicate measurements of their permeation profiles as they penetrated across porcine skin in vitro. It was found that for relatively hydrophilic solutes (log P(o/w)< or = approximately 2.5), physicochemical properties that facilitated slow transdermal flux were associated with more positively skewed permeability coefficient distributions while rapid flux was associated with more symmetric distributions. However, no correlation could be found between molecular properties and the extent of statistical fit to either the normal or log-normal distribution.
Obesity increases the risk of UV radiation-induced oxidative stress and activation of MAPK and NF-kappaB signaling.	Obesity has been implicated in several diseases, including cancer; however, the relationship of obesity and susceptibility to ultraviolet (UV) radiation-caused skin diseases has not been investigated. As UV-induced oxidative stress has been implicated in several skin diseases, we assessed the role of obesity on UVB-induced oxidative stress in genetically obese Lep(ob)/Lep(ob) (leptin-deficient) mice. Here, we report that chronic exposure to UVB (120 mJ/cm(2)) resulted in greater oxidative stress in the skin of obese mice in terms of higher levels of H(2)O(2) and NO production, photo-oxidative damage of lipids and proteins, and greater depletion of antioxidant defense enzymes, like glutathione, glutathione peroxidase, and catalase. As UV-induced oxidative stress mediates activation of MAPK and NF-kappaB signaling pathways, we determined the effects of UVB on these pathways in obese mice. Exposure of obese mice to UVB resulted in phosphorylation of ERK1/2, JNK, and p38 proteins of the MAPK family. Compared to wild-type mice, the obese mice exhibited higher levels of phosphorylation of these proteins, greater activation of NF-kappaB/p65, and higher levels of circulating proinflammatory cytokines, including TNF-alpha, IL-1beta and IL-6, on UVB irradiation. Taking these results together, our study suggests for the first time that obesity in mice is associated with greater susceptibility to UVB-induced oxidative stress and therefore may be a risk factor for skin diseases associated with UVB-induced oxidative stress.
The solar UV radiation level needed for cutaneous production of vitamin D3 in the face. A study conducted among subjects living at a high latitude (68 degrees N).	Populations at high latitudes experience several winter months with insufficient UV solar radiation to induce a significant cutaneous production of vitamin D. This unique study was designed to pursue an in vivo threshold of UV radiation needed for cutaneous production of vitamin D to take place if only the face was exposed to UV radiation. The vitamin D status were measured by analyzing blood samples weekly from a study group of 15 subjects over a period of 2 months during late winter, when UV radiation can be expected to increase substantially from rising solar elevations. Statistical analysis showed no significant positive association between the mean UV radiation dose and the mean 25(OH)D (25-hydroxy vitamin D) for the group. On an individual basis, however, we found indications that subjects with very low initial concentration of 25(OH)D (<30 nmol l(-1)) seemed to respond to UV radiation as early as in the beginning of March. For other individuals diet seemed to be the dominant controlling factor for 25(OH)D levels.
In vitro and in vivo characteristics of frozen/thawed neonatal pig split-skin strips: a novel biologically active dressing for areas of severe, acute or chronic skin loss.	The recurrent shortage of human skin autografts or allografts used to close extensive wounds has rekindled the search for feasible alternatives. In the past, adult pig skin was a popular biological dressing, yet doubts regarding its benefits have induced most people to abandon its use. Here we investigated the aptness of neonatal pig split-skin (NPSS) strips to be used as a novel kind of temporary dressing for areas of skin loss. NPSS strips are able to be prepared in bulk amounts, stored at -80 degrees C for up to six months, and recovered by swift thawing at 45 degrees C with no change in histological structure. When set into organ cultures in vitro for up to three weeks, these frozen/thawed NPSS strips exhibited both a skin-typical energy-linked metabolism (i.e., a predominant consumption of L-glutamine instead of glucose), and an enduring ability to secrete cytokines/chemokines such as IL-1alpha, IL-6, GM-CSF, and TNF-alpha; all features alike in quantitative terms to those exhibited by freshly prepared NPSS strips directly set into culture. Moreover, once applied as temporary dressings onto deep burn wounds in vivo, frozen/thawed NPSS strips produced, for at least seven days, porcine IL-1alpha, IL-6, GM-CSF, TNF-alpha, and TGF-beta; the cytokines/chemokines importantly involved in wound healing. Hence, frozen/thawed NPSS strips not only are capable of closing extensive areas of skin loss, but even release several cytokines/chemokines beneficial to tissue regeneration and repair.
Introduction of disease-related mitochondrial DNA deletions into HeLa cells lacking mitochondrial DNA results in mitochondrial dysfunction.	Mutant mitochondrial DNA with large-scale deletions (delta-mtDNA) has been frequently observed in patients with chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia (CPEO), a subgroup of the mitochondrial encephalomyopathies. To exclude involvement of the nuclear genome in expression of the mitochondrial dysfunction characteristic of CPEO, we introduced the mtDNA of a CPEO patient into clonal mtDNA-less HeLa cells and isolated cybrid clones. Quantitation of delta-mtDNA in the cybrids revealed that delta-mtDNA was selectively propagated with higher levels of delta-mtDNA correlating with slower cellular growth rate. In these cybrid clones, translational complementation of the missing tRNAs occurred only when delta-mtDNA was less than 60% of the total mtDNA, whereas accumulation of delta-mtDNA to greater than 60% resulted in progressive inhibition of overall mitochondrial translation as well as reduction of cytochrome c oxidase activity throughout the organelle population. Because these cybrids shared the same nuclear background as HeLa cells, these results suggest that large-scale deletion mutations of mtDNA alone are sufficient for the mitochondrial dysfunction characteristic of CPEO.
Loss of functional ELOVL4 depletes very long-chain fatty acids (> or =C28) and the unique omega-O-acylceramides in skin leading to neonatal death.	Mutations in elongation of very long-chain fatty acid-4 (ELOVL4) are associated with autosomal dominant Stargardt-like macular degeneration (STGD3), with a five base-pair (5 bp) deletion mutation resulting in the loss of 51 carboxy-terminal amino acids and truncation of the protein. In addition to the retina, Elovl4 is expressed in a limited number of mammalian tissues, including skin, with unknown function(s). We generated a knock-in mouse model with the 5-bp deletion in the Elovl4 gene. As anticipated, mice carrying this mutation in the heterozygous state (Elovl4(+/del)) exhibit progressive photoreceptor degeneration. Unexpectedly, homozygous mice (Elovl4(del/del)) display scaly, wrinkled skin, have severely compromised epidermal permeability barrier function, and die within a few hours after birth. Histopathological evaluation of the Elovl4(del/del) pups revealed no apparent abnormality(ies) in vital internal organs. However, skin histology showed an abnormally-compacted outer epidermis [stratum corneum (SC)], while electron microscopy revealed deficient epidermal lamellar body contents, and lack of normal SC lamellar membranes that are essential for permeability barrier function. Lipid analyses of epidermis from Elovl4(del/del) mice revealed a global decrease in very long-chain fatty acids (VLFAs) (i.e., carbon chain > or =C28) in both the ceramide/glucosylceramide and the free fatty-acid fractions. Strikingly, Elovl4(del/del) skin was devoid of the epidermal-unique omega-O-acylceramides, that are key hydrophobic components of the extracellular lamellar membranes in mammalian SC. These findings demonstrate that ELOVL4 is required for generating VLFA critical for epidermal barrier function, and that the lack of epidermal omega-O-acylceramides is incompatible with survival in a desiccating environment.
Tissue-specific expression of the HLA-DRA gene in transgenic mice.	Transgenic mice were produced containing a 33 kilobase (kb) DNA fragment encompassing the five exons and all the known regulatory regions of the class II HLA-DRA gene. The transgene displayed regulated expression [constitutive and interferon-gamma (IFN)-gamma induced] of the human products in most mouse tissues. The tissue distribution of the DRA transgene products more closely resembled that of their mouse homologues, the endogenous H-2 Ea products, than the wider distribution of DRA products in humans. This was evident in several tissues (endothelia of small vessels, especially those of glomerular capillaries, Kupffer cells, and epithelial cells lining the gastrointestinal tract), known to differentially express class II molecules in the two species. Thus, the wider human specific pattern of expression requires an exact cis/trans complementation which is incompletely reconstituted in transgenic mice, suggesting that human-specific cis-acting elements may have arisen during evolution to direct the expression of class II genes to those anatomical regions which usually lack them in the mouse. The only example of aberrant expression of the DRA gene in the present series of transgenic mice was in the dendritic and/or epithelial cells of the thymic cortex, which displayed greatly reduced DR alpha levels in spite of a normal expression of the endogenous E alpha molecules.
Sun protection and Vitamin D: three dimensions of obfuscation.	Ultraviolet (UV) radiation is a proven carcinogen, responsible for more than half of all human malignancies. It also compromises skin appearance and function. Since the UV action spectra for DNA damage, skin cancer and Vitamin D(3) (vit D) photosynthesis are identical and vit D is readily available from oral supplements, why has sun protection become controversial, now that some data suggest conventionally "sufficient" levels of vit D may be less than optimal for at least some population groups? First, the media and apparently some researchers are hungry for a new message. Nevertheless, after 50 years, UV exposure is still a major avoidable health hazard. Second, the controversy is fueled by a powerful special interest group: the indoor tanning industry. They target not the frail elderly or inner-city ethnic minorities, groups for whom evidence of vit D insufficiency is strongest, but rather fair-skinned teenagers and young adults, those at highest risk of UV photodamage. Third, evolution does not keep pace with civilization. When nature gave man the appealing capacity for vit D photosynthesis, the expected lifespan was far less than 40 years. Long-term photodamage was not a concern, and vit D was not available at the corner store. The medical community should avoid sensationalism and instead rigorously explore possible cause-and-effect relationships between vit D status and specific diseases while advocating the safest possible means of assuring vit D sufficiency.
Periostin regulates collagen fibrillogenesis and the biomechanical properties of connective tissues.	Periostin is predominantly expressed in collagen-rich fibrous connective tissues that are subjected to constant mechanical stresses including: heart valves, tendons, perichondrium, cornea, and the periodontal ligament (PDL). Based on these data we hypothesize that periostin can regulate collagen I fibrillogenesis and thereby affect the biomechanical properties of connective tissues. Immunoprecipitation and immunogold transmission electron microscopy experiments demonstrate that periostin is capable of directly interacting with collagen I. To analyze the potential role of periostin in collagen I fibrillogenesis, gene targeted mice were generated. Transmission electron microscopy and morphometric analyses demonstrated reduced collagen fibril diameters in skin dermis of periostin knockout mice, an indication of aberrant collagen I fibrillogenesis. In addition, differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) demonstrated a lower collagen denaturing temperature in periostin knockout mice, reflecting a reduced level of collagen cross-linking. Functional biomechanical properties of periostin null skin specimens and atrioventricular (AV) valve explant experiments provided direct evidence of the role that periostin plays in regulating the viscoelastic properties of connective tissues. Collectively, these data demonstrate for the first time that periostin can regulate collagen I fibrillogenesis and thereby serves as an important mediator of the biomechanical properties of fibrous connective tissues.
Analysis of in vitro skin permeation of 22-oxacalcitriol from ointments based on a two- or three-layer diffusion model considering diffusivity in a vehicle.	In the present study, in vitro rat skin permeation of 22-oxacalcitriol (OCT) from ointments having differing compositions was determined and discussed based on a diffusion model. Diffusion coefficients of OCT in two ointments, one containing 3% (w/w) medium chain triglyceride (MCT) (3MO) and the other 30% (w/w) MCT (30MO), were determined using a modified membraneless method resulting in values of 0.89x10(-4) and 1.87x10(-4) cm2/h, respectively. At 24 h after application with 3MO, 7% of the applied OCT dose permeated through full-thickness skin and 22% remained in the ointment, whereas with 30MO, 2% of the applied dose permeated through full-thickness skin and 65% remained in the ointment. The diffusion coefficient of OCT in 3MO was lower than 30MO but the cumulative amount of OCT permeated was higher. From analysis of skin permeation of OCT based on a diffusion model considering diffusivity in an ointment, the partition coefficient of OCT from the ointment to stratum corneum (K(SC/V)) was calculated to be five-fold higher with 3MO than with 30MO. Our simulation study based on a diffusion model suggests that the diffusion coefficients of OCT in both ointments were high enough to have no affect on the skin permeation of OCT in the present case and that the difference in the skin permeations of the ointments was mainly caused by a difference in K(SC/V).
Mobilization of osmotically inactive Na+ by growth and by dietary salt restriction in rats.	The idea that an osmotically inactive Na(+) storage pool exists that can be varied to accommodate states of Na(+) retention and/or Na(+) loss is controversial. We speculated that considerable amounts of osmotically inactive Na(+) are lost with growth and that additional dietary salt excess or salt deficit alters the polyanionic character of extracellular glycosaminoglycans in osmotically inactive Na(+) reservoirs. Six-week-old Sprague-Dawley rats were fed low-salt (0.1%; LS) or high-salt (8%; HS) diets for 1 or 4 wk. At their death, we separated the tissues and determined their Na(+), K(+), and water content. Three weeks of growth reduced the total body Na(+) content relative to dry weight (rTBNa(+)) by 23%. This "growth-programmed" Na(+) loss originated from the bone and the completely skinned and bone-removed carcasses. The Na(+) loss was osmotically inactive (45-50%) or osmotically active (50-55%). In rats aged 10 wk, compared with HS, 4 wk of LS reduced rTBNa(+) by 9%. This dietary-induced Na(+) loss was osmotically inactive ( approximately 50%) and originated largely from the skin, while approximately 50% was osmotically active. LS for 1 wk did not reduce skin Na(+) content. The mobilization of osmotically inactive skin Na(+) with long-term salt deprivation was associated with decreased negatively charged skin glycosaminoglycan content and thereby a decreased water-free Na(+) binding capacity in the extracellular matrix. Our data not only serve to explain discrepant results in salt balance studies but also show that glycosaminoglycans may provide an actively regulated interstitial cation exchange mechanism that participates in volume and blood pressure homeostasis.
Factors that influence the cutaneous synthesis and dietary sources of vitamin D.	The major sources of vitamin D for most humans are casual exposure of the skin to solar ultraviolet B (UVB; 290-315 nm) radiation and from dietary intake. The cutaneous synthesis of vitamin D is a function of skin pigmentation and of the solar zenith angle which depends on latitude, season, and time of day. In order to mimic the natural environment of skin to sunlight exposure, we therefore measured serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels in volunteers with different skin types following repeated UV irradiation. Because melanin pigment in human skin competes for and absorbs the UVB photons responsible for the photolysis of 7-dehydrocholesterol to previtamin D3, we also studied the effect of skin pigmentation on previtamin D3 production in a human skin model by exposing type II and type V skin samples to noon sunlight in June when the solar zenith angle is most acute. Vitamin D is rare in food. Among the vitamin D-rich food, oily fish are considered to be one of the best sources. Therefore, we analyzed the vitamin D content in several commonly consumed oily and non-oily fish. The data showed that farmed salmon had a mean content of vitamin D that was approximately 25% of the mean content found in wild caught salmon from Alaska, and that vitamin D2 was found in farmed salmon, but not in wild caught salmon. The results provide useful global guidelines for obtaining sufficient vitamin D3 by cutaneous synthesis and from dietary intake to prevent vitamin D deficiency and its health consequences, ensuing illness, especially, bone fractures in the elderly.
Skin involvement in scleroderma--where histological and clinical scores meet.	A clinico-pathological study in diffuse systemic sclerosis (SSc) patients was performed to analyse whether the skin histological organization and the pro-fibrotic signals elicited by TGF-beta in fibroblasts vary according to the modified Rodnan skin score (mRSS).
In vitro evaluation of quercetin-3-O-acyl esters as topical prodrugs.	Quercetin-3-O-acyl esters (I-VI) were synthesized and their usefulness as quercetin topical prodrugs was evaluated. Quercetin esters were assayed to determine their water stability and solubility, their susceptibility to undergoing enzymatic hydrolysis and their permeation through excised human skin. Quercetin ethyl (I) and hexyl (IV) esters proved poorly stable in aqueous media and they were not assayed further. Among the derivatives tested, quercetin propyl (II) and butyl (III) esters were more water-soluble than the parent drug. Esters II, III and V were readily hydrolyzed by human plasma and esters II and III penetrated excised human skin better than quercetin from aqueous saturated solutions. On the basis of the results obtained, esters II and III could be regarded as promising quercetin topical prodrugs.
Metabolic profile of a peptide-conjugated chlorin-type photosensitizer targeting neuropilin-1: an in vivo and in vitro study.	Because angiogenic endothelial cells of the tumor vasculature represent an interesting target to potentiate the antivascular effect of photodynamic therapy, we recently described the conjugation of a photosensitizer [5-(4-carboxyphenyl)-10,15,20-triphenylchlorin (TPC)], via a spacer [6-aminohexanoic acid (Ahx)], to a vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-specific heptapeptide [H-Ala-Thr-Trp-Leu-Pro-Pro-Arg-OH (ATWLPPR)] and showed that TPC-Ahx-ATWLPPR binds to neuropilin-1. Because peptides often display low stability in biological fluids, we examined the in vivo and in vitro stability of this conjugate by high-performance liquid chromatography and matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization/time of flight mass spectrometry. TPC-Ahx-ATWLPPR was stable in vitro in human and mouse plasma for at least 24 h at 37 degrees C but, following i.v. injection in glioma-bearing nude mice, was degraded in vivo to various rates, depending on the organ considered. TPC-Ahx-A was identified as the main metabolic product, and biodistribution studies suggested that its appearance in plasma mainly resulted from the degradation of the peptidic moiety into organs of the reticuloendothelial system. According to in vitro cell culture experiments, TPC-Ahx-ATWLPPR was also significantly degraded after incorporation in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC), mainly into TPC-Ahx-A and to a lesser extent into TPC-Ahx-AT and TPC-Ahx-ATWLPP. TPC-Ahx-ATWLPPR mostly localized into lysosomes, and when HUVEC were treated with the lysosomal enzymes' inhibitor ammonium chloride, this resulted in a significant decrease of the peptide degradation. This study provides essential information for the choice of the time of activation of the photosensitizer (drug-light interval) not to be exceeded and for the future design of more stable molecules.
2-aminoadipic acid is a marker of protein carbonyl oxidation in the aging human skin: effects of diabetes, renal failure and sepsis.	We hypothesized that the epsilon-amino group of lysine residues in longlived proteins oxidatively deaminates with age forming the carbonyl compound, allysine (alpha-aminoadipic acid-delta-semialdehyde), which can further oxidize into 2-aminoadipic acid. In the present study, we measured both products in insoluble human skin collagen from n=117 individuals of age range 10-90 years, of which n=61 and n=56 were non-diabetic and diabetic respectively, and a total of n=61 individuals had either acute or chronic renal failure. Allysine was reduced by borohydride into 6-hydroxynorleucine and both products were measured in acid hydrolysates by selective ion monitoring gas chromatography (GC)-MS. The results showed that 2-aminoadipic acid (P<0.0001), but not 6-hydroxynorleucine (P=0.14), significantly increased with age reaching levels of 1 and 0.3 mmol/mol lysine at late age respectively. Diabetes in the absence of renal failure significantly (P<0.0001) increased 2-aminoadipic acid up to <3 mmol/mol, but not 6-hydroxynorleucine (levels<0.4 mmol/mol, P=0.18). Renal failure even in the absence of diabetes markedly increased levels reaching up to <0.5 and 8 mmol/mol for 6-hydroxynorleucine and 2-aminoadipic acid respectively. Septicaemia significantly (P<0.0001) elevated 2-aminoadipic acid in non-diabetic, but not diabetic individuals, and mildly correlated with other glycoxidation markers, carboxymethyl-lysine and the methylglyoxal-derived products, carboxyethyl-lysine, argpyrimidine and MODIC (methylglyoxal-derived imidazolium cross-link). These results provide support for the presence of metal-catalysed oxidation (the Suyama pathway) in diabetes and the possible activation of myeloperoxidase during sepsis. We conclude that 2-aminoadipic acid is a more reliable marker for protein oxidation than its precursor, allysine. Its mechanism of formation in each of these conditions needs to be elucidated.
Bradykinin-related peptides, including a novel structural variant, (Val1)-bradykinin, from the skin secretion of Guenther's frog, Hylarana guentheri and their molecular precursors.	Multiple bradykinin-related peptides including a novel bradykinin structural variant, (Val(1))-bradykinin, have been identified from the defensive skin secretion of Guenther's frog, Hylarana guentheri by a tandem mass spectrometry method. Subsequently, four different preprobradykinin cDNAs, which encoded multiple bradykinin copies and its structural variants, were consistently cloned from a skin derived cDNA library. These preprobradykinin cDNAs showed little structural similarity with mammalian kininogens and the kininogens from the skin of toads, but have regions that are highly conserved in the kininogens from another ranid frog, Odorrana schmackeri. Alignment of these preprobradykinins revealed that preprobradykinin 1, 2 and 3 may derive from a single gene by alternative exon splicing.
Neuroendocrine functions of melanocytes: beyond the skin-deep melanin maker.	The skin is armored with "dead cells", the stratum corneum, and is continuously exposed to external stressful environments, such as atmospheric oxygen, solar radiations, and thermal and chemical insults. Melanocytes of neural crest origin are located in the skin, eye, inner ear, and leptomeninges. Melanin pigment in the skin is produced by melanocytes under the influence of various endogenous factors, derived from neighboring keratinocytes and underlying fibroblasts. The differentiation and functions of melanocytes are regulated at multiple processes, including transcription, RNA editing, melanin synthesis, and the transport of melanosomes to keratinocytes. Impairment at each step causes the pigmentary disorders in humans, with the historical example of oculocutaneous albinism. Moreover, heterozygous mutations in the gene coding for microphthalmia-associated transcription factor, a key regulator for melanocyte development, are associated with Waardenburg syndrome type 2, an auditory-pigmentary disorder. Sun tanning, melasma, aging spots (lentigo senilis), hair graying, and melanoma are well-known melanocyte-related pathologies. Melanocytes therefore have attracted much attention of many ladies, makeup artists and molecular biologists. More recently, we have shown that lipocalin-type prostaglandin D synthase (L-PGDS) is expressed in melanocytes but not in other skin cell types. L-PGDS generates prostaglandin D2 and also functions as an inter-cellular carrier protein for lipophilic ligands, such as bilirubin and thyroid hormones. Thus, melanocytes may exert hitherto unknown functions through L-PGDS and prostaglandin D2. Here we update the neuroendocrine functions of melanocytes and discuss the possible involvement of melanocytes in the control of the central chemosensor that generates respiratory rhythm.
The sunny side of p53.	Skin, the largest organ of our body, is often plagued by cancer because of exposure to ultraviolet radiation from the sun. A report by Cui et al. (2007) in this issue of Cell explains how the tumor suppressor p53 protects the skin by stimulating the suntan response.
Central role of p53 in the suntan response and pathologic hyperpigmentation.	UV-induced pigmentation (suntanning) requires induction of alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) secretion by keratinocytes. alpha-MSH and other bioactive peptides are cleavage products of pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC). Here we provide biochemical and genetic evidence demonstrating that UV induction of POMC/MSH in skin is directly controlled by p53. Whereas p53 potently stimulates the POMC promoter in response to UV, the absence of p53, as in knockout mice, is associated with absence of the UV-tanning response. The same pathway produces beta-endorphin, another POMC derivative, which potentially contributes to sun-seeking behaviors. Furthermore, several instances of UV-independent pathologic pigmentation are shown to involve p53 "mimicking" the tanning response. p53 thus functions as a sensor/effector for UV pigmentation, which is a nearly constant environmental exposure. Moreover, this pathway is activated in numerous conditions of pathologic pigmentation and thus mimics the tanning response.
Expression of CCR5 in graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) of the skin: immunohistochemical staining of 38 cases.	To ascertain the involvement of CCR5 in prolongation of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), we performed immunohistochemical staining of CCR5 in 38 GVHD samples (23 acute and 15 chronic). A total of seven out of 15 cases of chronic GVHD were positive for CCR5; however, only two out of 23 in acute GVHD were positive for CCR5. In three cases, expression of CCR5 in infiltrating lymphocytes was negative in the acute phase, but positive in the chronic phase of GVHD. These findings suggest that the immunopathological mechanism that differentiates between acute and chronic GVHD is a CCR5-mediated immunoreaction.
Retinal pathology and skin barrier defect in mice carrying a Stargardt disease-3 mutation in elongase of very long chain fatty acids-4.	Autosomal dominant Stargardt disease-3 (STGD3) is caused by mutations in elongase of very long chain fatty acids-4 (ELOVL4). The goal of this study was to generate and characterize heterozygous and homozygous knockin-mice that carry a human STGD3 pathogenic mutation in the mouse Elovl4 gene.
Expression of plasmacytoid dendritic cells, IRF-7, IFN-alpha mRNA in the lesions of psoriasis vulgaris.	To investigate the expression of plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs), interferon regulatory factor-7 (IRF-7) and interferon alpha (IFN- alpha) mRNA in skin lesions of patients with psoriasis vulgaris, the expressions of plasmacytoid dendritic cells, IRF-7, IFN-alpha mRNA in the lesional skin of psoriasis vulgaris were detected by immunohistochemical technique (SP) and RT-PCR. Normal skin of healthy volunteers, serving as control, was also tested. The immunohistochemical study showed that the expression of pDCs in the psoriatic lesions was significantly higher than that in the normal controls. RT-PCR showed that the mRNA expression of IRF-7 was much higher than that in normal controls, but no difference in the expression of IFN-alpha mRNA was found between two groups. Our findings indicate that up-regulated expression of pDCs, IRF-7 mRNA might be involved in the pathogenesis of psoriasis.
The expression of interleukin-23 (p19/p40) and interleukin-12 (p35/p40) in psoriasis skin.	In order to investigate the mRNA expression and function of interleukin-23 (p19/p40) and interleukin-12 (p35/p40) in the psoriatic lesion, no-lesion and normal human skin, reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was used to detect the expression of IL-23 (p19/p40) and IL-12 (p35/p40). The results showed that the expression of IL-23p19 mRNA and p40 (IL-12/IL-23) mRNA were higher in psoriatic lesion than those of non-lesional skin and normal skin. The levels of IL-23p19 mRNA and p40 (IL-12/IL-23) mRNA were higher in psoriatic non-lesional skin than normal skin. However, no significant difference was found in the level of IL-12p35 mRNA among the psoriatic lesional skin, non-lesional skin and normal skin. It was suggested that IL-23 might be more important in the pathogenesis of psoriasis than IL-12.
Role of scratch-induced cutaneous prostaglandin D production on atopic-like scratching behaviour in mice.	NC/Nga mice are known to develop scratching dermatitis akin to atopic dermatitis, under conventional (Conv), but not under the specific-pathogen-free (SPF) condition. In this study, we examined the effects of mechanical-scratching on the spontaneous scratching counts (sign of itching), in relation to the cutaneous prostaglandin D2 (PGD2) levels in NC/Nga or BALB/c mice. Mechanical-scratching increased the cutaneous barrier damage and PGD2 levels in both strain mice under the SPF condition. By 4 weeks of cohabitation with the skin-lesioned NC/Nga mice, both the increase in the spontaneous scratching and development of dermatitis score were higher in the Conv-NC/Nga than in the Conv-BALB/c mice. At this time-point, the cutaneous PGD2 level induced by mechanical-scratching was significantly lower in the Conv-NC/Nga when compared with that in the SPF-NC/Nga mice, and that in the Conv-BALB/c was almost equal to that in the SPF-BALB/c mice. With mechanical scratches, the cohabitation-induced scratching was suppressed in the Conv-BALB/c, but not in the Conv-NC/Nga mice. These results suggest that the scratch-induced cutaneous PGD2 inhibits scratching and the subsequent development of dermatitis in BALB/c, while the impaired scratch-induced cutaneous PGD2 production in the NC/Nga mice resulted in no suppression of scratching, and aggravated the dermatitis.
Amphiphilic gels as a potential carrier for topical drug delivery.	This study involves development of amphiphilic gels consisting solely of nonionic surfactants bearing cyclosporine and characterized for microstructure, gelation temperature, and in vitro drug release into dermis. The formulation is nonirritant and suitable for topical application. Gels consisting of cyclosporine were prepared using different methods by mixing the solid gelator (sorbitan or glyceryl fatty acid esters) and the liquid phase (liquid sorbitan esters or polysorbates) and heating them at 60 degrees C to form a clear isotropic sol phase, and cooling this sol phase to form an opaque semisolid at room temperature. Gel microstructure was examined by phase contrast microscopy while gelation temperatures were measured by melting point apparatus and differential scanning calorimetry. These amphiphilic gels were evaluated in vitro for topical as well as transdermal delivery using rat skin mounted in a Franz diffusion cell. Gel microstructures consisted mainly of clusters of tubules of gelator molecules that had aggregated upon cooling of the sol phase, forming a 3D network throughout the continuous phase. The gels demonstrated thermoreversibility with robust gel network. At temperatures near the skin surface temperature, the gels softened considerably and moreover, it facilitated the drug to accumulate in dermis, thus making an ideal delivery vehicle of cyclosporine topically that can be used in treatment of psoriasis. Thus amphiphilic gels were demonstrated as the ideal vehicle for topical use of cyclosporine.
The effect of meloxicam/ethanolamine salt formation on percutaneous absorption of meloxicam.	This study was undertaken to prepare meloxicam-ethanolamine salts (MX-EAs) that enhance the transdermal delivery of meloxicam. The physicochemical properties of MX-EAs were investigated by solubility measurements, Differential Scanning Calorimetry (DSC), and Infrared Spectroscopy (FT-IR). The DSC thermogram and FTIR spectra indicated that meloxicam formed salts with ethanolamines. The effects of various vehicles on the percutaneous absorption of meloxicam and of its salts across hairless mouse skin were evaluated using a flow-through diffusion cell system at 37 degrees C. Salt formation lowered the melting point of meloxicam and slightly reduced its octanol/water partition coefficient. Meloxicam-monoethanolamine salt (MX-MEA) and meloxicam-diethanolamine salt (MX-DEA) had greater solubilities and transdermal permeation rates across hairless mouse skin than meloxicam alone in various vehicles. Moreover, although the solubility of meloxicam-triethanolamine salt (MX-TEA) was generally lower than that of meloxicam, its permeation rate across the skin was higher. The fluxes of meloxicam and its salts were generally lower than those of piroxicam.
Study on the application of PEI for gene transfer in mouse skin tissue]	A reliable, low-cost, and highly efficient nonviral gene delivery system using lower molecular weight polyethylenimine (LMW-PEI) is provided. LMW-PEI was linked to an expressing plasmid with green fluorescence protein gene (gfp), the transfection activity mediated by PEIs were examined in the CM7721 cell line and the skin tissue of mouse, respectively. The cytotoxicity of PEIs, the localization and continuance time of gfp expressed in the skin tissue of mouse were also studied. Results showed that the transfection rate of gfp mediated by LMW-PEI in the CM7721 cell line was about 55% . However, with the increasing PEI molecular weight, the cytotoxicity of PEI increased, but its transfection activity decreased. The tissue transfection results showed that LMW-PEI induced a significant expression of the gfp in the cells of hair vesicle and sweat gland of mouse skin tissues following transfection of 24 h, and the expression of gfp lasted 7 - 9 d. When the tissue of mouse was treated with retinoic acid and nitrogenous ketone, respectively, gfp was transferred to the granule layer of mouse skin tissue. The LMW-PEI described here is a new, highly efficient vector; it would be a useful nonviral vector for gene delivery technology.
Radiation-induced alterations in cytokine production by skin cells.	Ionizing radiation exposure of skin results in a cutaneous radiation reaction comprising all pathophysiological reactions and clinical symptoms in irradiated skin. Biological responses of skin occur in a characteristic temporal pattern and mainly depend on radiation quality, dose rate, total dose, and cellular conditions. Immediately after irradiation, production of cytokines by skin cells is initiated and continues as a cascade during all stages of the cutaneous radiation syndrome leading to progressive late symptoms, the predominant of which is fibrosis. Cytokines are important signaling molecules mediating communicative interactions both locally between different cell types within dermal tissues and distantly between organs. Although during recent years much progress has been made in dissecting the complex cytokine network, the role of cytokines in the pathophysiology of the cutaneous radiation reaction is only beginning to be elucidated. Previous studies indicate that the major cytokines in the response of skin cells to ionizing radiation include IL (interleukin)-1, IL-6, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta, and the chemokines IL-8 and eotaxin. In this paper, existing data on the radiation-induced modulation of cytokine expression by skin cells are reviewed.
Significant downregulation of transforming growth factor-beta signal transducers in human skin following ultraviolet-A1 irradiation.	Despite the significant role of the transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta/Smad pathway in cell growth and extracellular matrix regulation, relatively little is known regarding the effect of ultraviolet (UV) radiation on the TGF-beta/Smad signalling in human skin.
Evaluation of skin penetration of topically applied drugs in humans by cutaneous microdialysis: acyclovir vs. salicylic acid.	Cutaneous drug application is used for both local drug therapy and systemic treatment. For both types of treatment, the drug concentration profile in, and transport across, the skin is important. To evaluate skin penetration of topically-applied drugs we recently used cutaneous microdialysis. The aim of this study was the use of this method for studying acyclovir and salicylic acid.
Catabolism of hyaluronan in rabbit skin takes place locally, in lymph nodes and liver.	The catabolism of hyaluronan has been studied by injecting hyaluronan, labelled with 125I-tyramine cellobiose (125I-TC), subcutaneously into the hindpaw of rabbits. Following endocytosis, 125I-TC remains in the cells at the site of uptake, allowing localization of the site of catabolism. At 6 h after subcutaneous injection, 65% of the injected radioactivity was recovered. The skin at the injection site contained 47%, the popliteal gland at the side of injection 10%, and the liver 8% of the injected dose. At 48 h the three organs contained 40% of the injected dose with 17% in the skin, 10% in the lymph node and 13% in the liver. The decline in recovery could be accounted for by urinary excretion of the tracer, implying that some tracer had been released from the cells after endocytosis. Chromatography revealed that over 85% of 125I-TC-hyaluronan in the lymph nodes and liver was of low molecular mass throughout the experiment. In skin, 4% of the injected tracer was recovered with low molecular mass at 6 h, increasing to 12% of injected dose at 24 and 48 h. Thus, a minimum of 12% of the injected tracer was catabolized per 24 h at the skin injection site. If cells in skin are responsible for the subsequent release of tracer, as seen from the decrease in recovery of the injected dose, another 10-15% of the tracer could have been catabolized locally in the skin per day. The major part of the hyaluronan injected in the skin was, however, catabolized by lymphatic removal and subsequent degradation in local lymph nodes and liver.
Intraepidermal distribution of free amino acids in porcine skin.	The study describes the vertical distribution of free amino acids in the porcine epidermis as compared to the human integument, using a micro-determination TLC method based on the reaction of amino acids with dansyl chloride. This microanalytical approach demonstrated 22 free amino acids, with the relatively largest amounts being present for acidic amino acids and their amides. It was obvious that the relative amounts of certain amino acids (alanine, proline, valine, glutamine, histidine, glycine, threonine) decreased, whereas acidic amino acids (glutamic acid, aspartic acid) increased from the stratum basale up to the stratum corneum. This distributional pattern could be verified for the dorsal and lateral body regions of the pig breeds used, and for man. The results obtained are discussed in view of the development of epidermal keratinization.
Review of collagen VII sequence variants found in Australasian patients with dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa reveals nine novel COL7A1 variants.	Dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa (DEB) is an inherited skin fragility disorder where blistering occurs in the sub-lamina densa zone at the level of anchoring fibrils (AFs) of the dermo-epidermal junction. Both autosomal dominant (DDEB) and recessive (RDEB) result from mutations in the type VII collagen gene (COL7A1).
Skin exposure to isocyanates: reasons for concern.	Isocyanates (di- and poly-), important chemicals used worldwide to produce polyurethane products, are a leading cause of occupational asthma. Respiratory exposures have been reduced through improved hygiene controls and the use of less-volatile isocyanates. Yet isocyanate asthma continues to occur, not uncommonly in settings with minimal inhalation exposure but opportunity for skin exposure. In this review we evaluate the potential role of skin exposure in the development of isocyanate asthma.
Comparative study on transdermal osmosis in vitro of Aconitum brachypodium liniment, gel and patcher]	To study the transdermal osmosis process of Aconitum brachypodum's liniment, gel and patcher to provide basis for selecting dosage form and controlling the quality.
Bullous pemphigoid positive for anti-BP180 and anti-laminin 5 antibodies in a patient with graft-vs-host disease.	We report the case of a 55-year-old female with bullous pemphigoid (BP) who was positive for anti-BP180 and anti-laminin 5 antibodies after development of graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) caused by a bone marrow transplant. She had tense blisters on her trunk and extremities. Histologic examination showed a subepidermal blister and marked lymphocytic infiltration, especially eosinophils. Direct immunofluorescence revealed a linear deposition of IgG on the base membrane zone. Indirect immunofluorescence on 1M NaCl split skin revealed a linear IgG deposition to both sides of the epidermal and the dermal layers. Immunoblot assays using human epidermal extracts and BP180 NC16a domain recombinant protein confirmed the presence of IgG antibodies against BP180 and recombinant BP180 NC16a domain protein. Furthermore, immunoblotting using laminin 5 purified from human keratinocyte extract as the substrate demonstrated reactivity against the gamma2 and beta3 subunits but not the alpha3 subunit of laminin 5. We diagnosed BP and treated her with prednisolone (40 mg/day). Both skin and oral lesions resolved without leaving scars on the bulla. Immune disturbance as well as destruction of basal epidermal cells and base membrane by GVHD may result in the induction of autoimmune blistering diseases with unusual clinical and laboratory manifestations.
The expression pattern of prostaglandin E synthase and EP receptor isoforms in normal mouse skin and preinvasive skin neoplasms.	Prostaglandin (PG) E(2), the predominant PG in skin, accumulates in experimentally produced mouse skin tumors. PGE(2) induces proliferation of mouse keratinocytes in vitro, epidermal hyperplasia and dysplasia, a promoted epidermis phenotype, and angiogenesis in keratin 5 promoter (K5) cyclooxygenase (COX)-2-transgenic NMRI mouse skin in vivo. PGE(2) is synthesized by COX-catalysed oxygenation of arachidonic acid to PGH(2) and its conversion to PGE(2) by prostaglandin E synthase (PGES) isoforms. PGE(2) signals via PGE(2) receptor isoforms EP1-EP4. Here, we investigated the expression profiles of PGES and EP receptors in wild type NMRI mouse skin constitutively expressing COX-1 when compared with the hyperplastic/dysplastic skin of homozygous K5 COX-2-transgenic mice and papillomas of both genotypes, which, in addition to COX-1, overexpress COX-2. The three PGES are constitutively expressed in normal and transgenic skin independent of the COX expression status. In papillomas, the increased PGE(2) levels correlate with an increased expression of mPGES-1 and cPGES. All four EP receptors were expressed in normal and transgenic skin. Only EP3 was slightly increased in transgenic skin. In papillomas of both genotypes, the expression levels of EP1 and EP4 were low when compared with those in wild type back skin. EP2 was the predominant receptor in papillomas of wild type and transgenic mice. In papillomas of wild type mice EP3 levels were slightly elevated when compared with transgenic tumors. EP1 and EP2 were localized in basal keratinocytes, sebaceous glands and CD31-positive vessels. Thus, normal and preinvasive mouse skin express the complete protein repertoire for PGE(2) biosynthesis and signalling.
Functionalized nano-magnetic particles for an in vivo delivery system.	Nanotechnologies to allow the nondisruptive introduction of carriers in vivo have wide potential for therapeutic delivery system. We have prepared functional nano-magnetic particles (d = 3 nm) by silanization with (3-aminopropyl) triethoxysilane. For the purpose of functionalizing the surface of the nanoparticles with amino groups for subsequent cross-linking with pharmaceuticals and biomolecules. The extremely small particles were successfully introduced into living cells without any further modification to enhance endocytic internalization, such as the use of a cationic help. The cells containing the internalized particles continued to thrive, indicating that the particles have no inhibition effect for mitosis. In addition, the particles could be incorporated into the subcutaneous tissue of mouse's ear from ear skin and were able to be localized upon application of an external magnetic field. The functionalized nano-magnetic particles are expected to be useful as a new delivery tool.
14C]bis(2-chloroethoxy)methane: comparative absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion in rats and mice	bis(2-Chloroethoxy)methane (BCM) is used primarily as a precursor in the synthesis of polysulfide elastomers. After administration of [(14)C]BCM, radioactivity is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and moderately absorbed through skin. Following absorption, BCM-derived radioactivity is rapidly distributed to all tissues, rapidly metabolized and excreted primarily in urine. Minimal effects of sex, species or dose in the range studied (0.1-10 mg kg(-1)) were observed on the fate of BCM in rats and mice after all routes of administration. The major metabolite (about 40% of the dose) of BCM in rat was isolated and identified as thiodiglycolic acid (TDGA) indicating that the ether linkage of BCM is cleaved to form 2-chloroethyl fragments that may be further metabolized to 2-chloracetaldehyde, conjugated with glutathione and the latter subsequently metabolized to TDGA. 2-chloroacetaldehyde has also been shown to be cardiotoxic, possibly accounting for BCM cardiotoxicity observed in repeated dose studies.
Aberrant human tissue kallikrein levels in the stratum corneum and serum of patients with psoriasis: dependence on phenotype, severity and therapy.	Human tissue kallikreins (KLKs) are a family of 15 trypsin-like or chymotrypsin-like secreted serine proteases (KLK1-KLK15). Multiple KLKs have been quantitatively identified in normal stratum corneum (SC) and sweat as candidate desquamation-related proteases.
mRNA expression of procollagen and SMADs in lesional skin of progressive systemic sclerosis]	To investigate the mRNA expression of type I and type III procollagen and SMADs in the lesional skin of progressive systemic sclerosis (PSS) and analyze the role in pathogenesis of scleroderma thereof.
Absorption of lawsone through human skin.	Lawsone (2-hydroxy-1,4-naphthoquinone) is the principal color ingredient in henna, a color additive approved with limitations for coloring hair by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) under 21 CFR 73.2190. In 2002, the scientific committee on cosmetics and non-food products (SCCNFP), now known as the scientific committee for consumer products (SCCP), evaluated the safety of lawsone as a coloring agent in hair dye products of the European Union (EU). The SCCNFP concluded that lawsone was mutagenic and not suitable for use as a hair coloring agent. As a result, studies were conducted to measure the extent of lawsone absorption through human skin. Lawsone skin absorption was determined from two hair coloring products and two shampoo products, all containing henna. [(14)C]-Lawsone (sp. act. 22.9 mCi/mmol) was added to each commercial product and the products were applied to dermatomed, nonviable human skin mounted in flow-through diffusion cells perfused with a physiological buffer (HEPES-buffered Hanks' balanced salt solution, pH 7.4). Products remained on the skin for 5 minutes (shampoos) and 1 hour (hair color paste). For the henna hair paste products, 0.3 and 1.3% of the applied dose was absorbed into the receptor fluid in 24 hours while 2.2 and 4.0% remained in the skin. For both henna shampoo products, 0.3% of the applied dose was absorbed into the receptor fluid at 24 hours while 3.6 and 6.8% remained in the skin. For all products, most of the lawsone applied was washed from the surface of the skin (83-102%) at the end of the exposure period. Extended absorption studies were conducted for 72 hours to determine if skin levels of lawsone in the 24 hour studies might eventually be percutaneously absorbed. These studies determined that the majority of the lawsone remained in the skin with only a small but significant increase (for three out of four products) in receptor fluid values. Therefore, it appears that receptor fluid values would give a good estimate of lawsone absorption for an exposure estimate and that skin levels of lawsone need not be included.
Routine autoradiographic analysis of DNA excision-repair. Report of prenatal and postnatal diagnosis in eleven families.	DNA excision-repair of UV induced damages was investigated by unscheduled DNA synthesis and quantitative autoradiography. The method has been routinely used on lymphocytes for postnatal diagnosis of xeroderma pigmentosum and PIBIDS syndrome. Ten XP-families including 13 clinical XP patients and 9 XP-risk children, and one family with one clinical PIBIDS case and one PIBIDS-risk child were screened. Each of the 14 affected patients were biologically ascertained with a significant excision-repair defect. Among the 9 XP-risk children without clinical manifestations, the DNA excision-repair was defected in 4 cases considered as biological XP, and normal in 5 cases considered as biologically normal subjects. Likewise the PIBIDS-risk child exhibited a normal excision-repair. According to the age of the XP or PIBIDS-risk children, and the delay of appearance of clinical manifestations, the method should not present neither false positive nor false negative results and allows the infraclinical diagnosis. The protocol was extended for prenatal diagnosis on amniocytes and fetal cord blood. Excision-repair analysis on normal cultivated chorionic villi cells has been performed allowing a further first trimester prenatal diagnosis.
Radiation-induced late effects in two affected individuals of the Lilo radiation accident.	Radiation exposure leads to a risk for long-term deterministic and stochastic late effects. Two individuals exposed to protracted photon radiation in the radiological accident at the Lilo Military site in Georgia in 1997 received follow-up treatment and resection of several chronic radiation ulcers in the Bundeswehr Hospital Ulm, Germany, in 2003. Multi-parameter analysis revealed that spermatogenetic arrest and serum hormone levels in both patients had recovered compared to the status in 1997. However, we observed a persistence of altered T-cell ratios, increased ICAM1 and beta1-integrin expression, and aberrant bone marrow cells and lymphocytes with significantly increased translocations 6 years after the accident. This investigation thus identified altered end points still detectable years after the accident that suggest persistent genomic damage as well as epigenetic effects in these individuals, which may be associated with an elevated risk for the development of further late effects. Our observations further suggest the development of a chronic radiation syndrome and indicate follow-up parameters in radiation victims.
Trace element supplementation after major burns modulates antioxidant status and clinical course by way of increased tissue trace element concentrations.	After major burns, patients can develop nutritional deficiencies including trace element (TE) deficiencies. Various complications, such as infections and delayed wound healing, influence the clinical course of such patients.
Trace element supplementation after major burns increases burned skin trace element concentrations and modulates local protein metabolism but not whole-body substrate metabolism.	After major burns, patients exhibit an intense catabolism, and the wounds require surgery and grafting for closure. Complications, such as weight loss and delayed wound healing, are worsened by trace element (TE) deficiencies.
The distribution of melanin in skin determined in vivo.	There continues to be a need for objective, noninvasive methods to measure melanin concentration in vivo in human skin, independent of the confounding chromophore, haemoglobin. Existing methods are limited by a lack of specificity and inability to resolve the spatial distribution of these chromophores.
Suitability of excised rabbit ear skin - fresh and frozen - for evaluating transdermal permeation of estradiol.	Estradiol transdermal application still represents a relevant topic due to the recent controversies about hormone replacement therapy, its increasing potential in the treatment of skin aging and wound healing, and the new use of its derivatives in the transdermal contraceptive treatment. The aim of our work was to verify if fresh or frozen rabbit ear skin can be a suitable skin model to study in vitro estradiol transdermal absorption. Fresh rabbit ear skin demonstrated a reasonable model of human epidermis in the investigation of estradiol permeation starting from both solutions and commercial patches.
Metabolism of 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene in mouse skin homogenates analyzed with high-pressure liquid chromatography.	The metabolism of 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA) in epidermal homogenates from 3-methylcholanthrene-pretreated mice was analyzed with high-pressure liquid chromatography. Metabolism was undetectable in the absence of pretreatment. Specific activities in epidermal homogenates from pretreated mice were found to be approximately 100 to 1000 times lower than those observed in comparable incubations containing hepatic microsomes from MC-pretreated rats. The major metabolite formed was identified as 7-hydroxymethyl-12-methylbenz[a]anthracene. Each of the known hydroxymethyl metabolites also was present in detectable quantities. The K-region diol was not measurably present in incubations with mouse skin homogenates or rat liver microsomes from MC-pretreated animals. 7,8-Benzoflavone, 5,6-benzoflavone, and 17-beta-estradiol were found to be potent inhibitors of the metabolic transformation of DMBA by epidermal homogenates in vitro, whereas butylated hydroxytoluene and 1,1,1-trichloro-2,3-propene oxide had little effect on or enhanced metabolite formation from DMBA in vitro.
c-Myc and activated Ras during skin tumorigenesis: cooperation at the cancer stem cell level?	Mutations leading to overexpression and activation of the oncogenes Myc and Ras are among the most frequent lesions known to occur in human and murine cancers. These genes are also the pioneering example for oncogene cooperation during tumorigenesis, whereby the anticancer effects of Myc deregulation (apoptosis) and oncogenic Ras (senescence) are antagonized and therefore canceled out by each other. Here I review the role of endogenous and overexpressed c-Myc in murine skin, focusing primarily on epidermal stem cells. In addition, recent data suggesting an essential role for the endogenous c-Myc-p21(CIP1) pathway in Ras-driven skin tumorigenesis are discussed.
Measurement of 2-D SpO2 distribution in skin tissue by multispectral imaging with depth selectivity control.	Two-dimensional hemoglobin oxygen saturation measurement is demonstrated by using the combination technique of multispectral imaging and the polarization control. Multispectral images are acquired at the wavelength range from 500 to 680 nm to observe the wavelength-dependent diffusely reflected light from the skin tissue. For eliminating the superficially reflected light from the skin, the skin tissue is illuminated by linearly polarized light and the polarization analyzer whose orientation is perpendicular to the illumination light is inserted in front of an imaging camera. The hemoglobin oxygen saturation levels corresponding to all image pixels are estimated by the partial least squares regression method with respect to each reflection spectrum. Mapping all the estimated values enables the oxygen saturation map across the observed tissue area.
Automated removal of stimulus artifact in nerve conduction studies.	An algorithm for automated removal of stimulus artifact has been developed and tested on nerve conduction study data. The algorithm uses a hardware-based model of the stimulus artifact (SA). Model parameters are estimated from portions of the data that are judged to contain only the artifact. The model can be used to remove SA even when it is temporally overlapped with the nerve signal. Data are shown to demonstrate the algorithm's performance and to quantify the effect of SA removal on clinical parameters.
Herpes simplex virus latency-associated transcript is a stable intron.	The latency-associated transcript (LAT) is the major viral transcript detected by in situ hybridization of mouse and human sensory ganglia latently infected with herpes simplex virus type 1. The last 750 bases of LAT are complementary to infected-cell polypeptide 0, a herpes simplex virus type 1 immediate-early gene that encodes a transactivating protein that may facilitate re-activation of the virus from the latent state. Several laboratories have shown that LAT accumulates in the nucleus and is not polyadenylylated. Recently, we showed that the promoter for LAT lies 688 bases upstream from its 5' end. We report here that LAT is actually a uniquely stable intron. Furthermore, LAT effectively inhibits transactivation of gene expression by infected-cell polypeptide 0 in transient transfection assays.
Nonenzymatic glycosylation of HDL and impaired HDL-receptor-mediated cholesterol efflux.	Previous studies have shown that nonenzymatic glycosylation of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) inhibits high-affinity binding to cultured cells and the candidate HDL-receptor protein. Because binding of HDL to its receptor is required for HDL-receptor-mediated cholesterol efflux from cells, we hypothesized that glycosylated HDL3 would have reduced ability to remove cholesterol from cells. HDL3 was glycosylated in vitro to achieve up to 40-50% reductions in free-lysine residues. Glycosylated HDL3 had a slightly greater ability than control HDL3 to sequester cholesterol directly from the plasma membrane, as predicted by changes in lipid composition. This process is independent of HDL-receptor binding and should not be influenced by reduced binding of HDL3. In contrast, efflux of intracellular cholesterol from cells, which is HDL-receptor dependent, was reduced 25-40%. The ability of glycosylated HDL3 to diminish cholesterol esterification was significantly reduced, indicating reduced net cholesterol efflux. Steady-state efflux of LDL-derived cholesterol was also markedly reduced. These findings suggest that nonenzymatically glycosylated HDL is functionally abnormal and might contribute to the accelerated development of atherosclerosis in patients with diabetes mellitus.
Racial pigmentation and the cutaneous synthesis of vitamin D.	The varying epidermal melanin content that produces racial pigmentation determines the number of photons that reach the lower (malpighian) cellular layers, where vitamin D3 synthesis takes place. We investigated the effect of racial pigmentation on vitamin D3 formation, stimulating the process with a fixed dose of UVB radiation (wavelengths, 290 to 320 nm). Vitamin D nutritional status was further assessed measuring serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D and the most active serum metabolite, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D. Experimental subjects were young (third decade of life) and healthy, representing the white, Oriental (East Asian), Indian (South Asian), and black races. Basal serum vitamin D3 levels were similar among groups, ranging from 2.3 +/- 0.6 nmol/L (mean +/- SEM) for blacks to 3.4 +/- 1.0 nmol/L for Indians. Following whole-body exposure to 27 mJ/cm2 of UVB, there was a significant racial group effect on serum vitamin D3 levels. Post-UVB levels were significantly higher in whites (31.4 +/- 4.4 nmol/L) than in Indians or blacks (12.8 +/- 2.9 and 9.1 +/- 2.1 nmol/L, respectively), while the levels in Orientals (27.8 +/- 4.4 nmol/L) differed significantly from those in blacks and Indians but not in whites. Race had only a marginal effect on serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D, with higher levels in whites than in blacks (69.9 +/- 12.7 vs 29.7 +/- 6.2 nmol/L). Serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D and vitamin D binding protein levels were similar in all groups. We conclude that while racial pigmentation has a photoprotective effect, it does not prevent the generation of normal levels of active vitamin D metabolites.
Cholesterol stimulation of HDL binding to human endothelial cells EAhy 926 and skin fibroblasts: evidence for a mechanism independent of cellular metabolism.	The properties of the HDL binding site on the permanent human cell line EAhy 926 were studied. This cell line presents with highly differentiated functions of vascular endothelium. EAhy 926 cells possess HDL3 saturable binding sites with a Kd of about 20 micrograms/ml, which were up-regulated by cholesterol and were pronase- and EDTA-insensitive. Furthermore, HDL3 promoted cholesterol efflux from EAhy 926 cells in a dose-dependent manner. Thus, the HDL-binding site in EAhy 926 cells is similar to that present in fibroblasts, smooth muscle cells and endothelial cells. Up-regulation of HDL binding by cholesterol did not require de novo synthesis of HDL 'receptor' protein, as shown by the lack of effect of cycloheximide and alpha-amanitin and also occurred in fixed, non-living cells. Similar results were obtained using human skin fibroblasts. From these data we conclude that: (a) EAhy 926 cells are a good model for studying the HDL interaction with endothelial cells; (b) a mechanism independent of cellular metabolism is involved in the cholesterol-mediated up-regulation of HDL binding sites in EAhy 926 cells and human skin fibroblasts.
Oxidative stress in normal and impaired wound repair.	A large percentage of the population suffers from wound healing abnormalities, in particular aged individuals, patients with diabetes, and those treated with immunosuppressive drugs, chemo- or radiotherapy. The mechanisms underlying the impaired healing response are still poorly understood. Recent studies provided strong evidence for a role of oxidative stress in the pathogenesis of non-healing ulcers. Therefore, it is of major importance to identify and functionally characterize the factors involved in the generation and detoxification of reactive oxygen species (ROS). This will provide the basis for the development of new strategies for therapeutic intervention. In this review we summarize the current information about the roles of low molecular weight antioxidants and ROS-detoxifying enzymes in normal and impaired wound repair, and we report on the consequences of their modulation at the wound site.
In vitro effects on MCF-7 breast cancer cells of signal transduction inhibitor/tamoxifen/eicosapentaenoic acid combinations and their simultaneous delivery across skin.	To determine the in vitro effects of simultaneously administered LY29400, PD98059, tamoxifen and eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) on breast cancer cells, and determine their transcutaneous delivery.
Screening of chemical penetration enhancers for transdermal drug delivery using electrical resistance of skin.	A novel technique is presented for identifying potential chemical penetration enhancers (CPEs) based on changes in the electrical resistance of skin.
AMP-activated protein kinase contributes to UV- and H2O2-induced apoptosis in human skin keratinocytes.	AMP-activated protein kinase or AMPK is an evolutionarily conserved sensor of cellular energy status, activated by a variety of cellular stresses that deplete ATP. However, the possible involvement of AMPK in UV- and H(2)O(2)-induced oxidative stresses that lead to skin aging or skin cancer has not been fully studied. We demonstrated for the first time that UV and H(2)O(2) induce AMPK activation (Thr(172) phosphorylation) in cultured human skin keratinocytes. UV and H(2)O(2) also phosphorylate LKB1, an upstream signal of AMPK, in an epidermal growth factor receptor-dependent manner. Using compound C, a specific inhibitor of AMPK and AMPK-specific small interfering RNA knockdown as well as AMPK activator, we found that AMPK serves as a positive regulator for p38 and p53 (Ser(15)) phosphorylation induced by UV radiation and H(2)O(2) treatment. We also observed that AMPK serves as a negative feedback signal against UV-induced mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) activation in a TSC2-dependent manner. Inhibiting mTOR and positively regulating p53 and p38 might contribute to the pro-apoptotic effect of AMPK on UV- or H(2)O(2)-treated cells. Furthermore, activation of AMPK also phosphorylates acetyl-CoA carboxylase or ACC, the pivotal enzyme of fatty acid synthesis, and PFK2, the key protein of glycolysis in UV-radiated cells. Collectively, we conclude that AMPK contributes to UV- and H(2)O(2)-induced apoptosis via multiple mechanisms in human skin keratinocytes and AMPK plays important roles in UV-induced signal transduction ultimately leading to skin photoaging and even skin cancer.
Activation of kinin B receptor triggers differentiation of cultured human keratinocytes.	Keratinocyte life span is modulated by receptors that control proliferation and differentiation, key processes during cutaneous tissue repair. The kinin B(1) receptor (B(1)R) has been reported in normal and pathological human skin, but so far there is no information about its role in keratinocyte biology.
Evaluation of proniosomes as an alternative strategy to optimize piroxicam transdermal delivery.	The current investigation aims to evaluate the transdermal potential of niosomes bearing a potent non-steroidal anti-inflammatory, piroxicam. Piroxicam-loaded niosomes were prepared and characterized for surface morphology, entrapment efficiency and in vitro permeation across excised rat skin from various proniosome gel formulations using Franz diffusion cells. Various non-ionic surfactants were used to achieve optimum encapsulation efficiency. The prepared proniosomes significantly improved drug permeation and reduced the lag time (p < 0.05). Proniosomes prepared with Span 60 provided a higher piroxicam flux across the skin than did those prepared with Tween 80. Niosomes prepared using Span 60 showed a higher release rate than those prepared using non-ionic surfactants, Span 20 and Span 80, while those prepared from Tween showed higher release rate than formula prepared with Span. This indicates that lipophilicity and hydrophilicity of surfactant has a main role in release rates of piroxicam. Particle size of piroxicam niosomal vesicles formed by proniosome was determined by scanning electron microscopy. The encapsulation efficiency was evaluated by a specific high performance liquid chromatography method. Niosomes formed from using Spans and Tweens exhibited very high encapsulation efficiency. The results are very encouraging and suggest that niosomes can act as promising carriers offering an alternative approach for transdermal delivery of piroxicam.
Tissue-specific DNA-PK-dependent H2AX phosphorylation and gamma-H2AX elimination after X-irradiation in vivo.	Histone H2AX rapidly undergoes phosphorylation at Ser139 (gamma-H2AX) in response to DNA double-strand breaks. Although ATM kinase and DNA-PK phosphorylate Ser139 of H2AX in culture cells, the regulatory mechanism of gamma-H2AX level remains unclear in vivo. Here, we detected the phosphorylation of H2AX and the elimination of gamma-H2AX in the mouse skin after X-irradiation. Furthermore, following X-irradiation, the level of gamma-H2AX also increased in mice lacking either ATM or DNA-PK. Although the elimination after X-irradiation was detected in the skin of these mutant mice, the elimination in DNA-PK-deficient mice was slower than that in C3H and ATM knockout mice, suggesting that a fraction of gamma-H2AX in the skin is eliminated in a DNA-PK-dependent manner. Although the DNA-PK-dependent elimination of gamma-H2AX was also detected in the liver, kidney, and spleen, the DNA-PK-dependent phosphorylation of H2AX was detected in the spleen only. These results suggest that the regulatory mechanism of gamma-H2AX level is tissue-specific.
Cutaneous mucinosis in shar-pei dogs is due to hyaluronic acid deposition and is associated with high levels of hyaluronic acid in serum.	Cutaneous mucinosis affects primarily shar-pei dogs. Hyaluronic acid (HA) is considered to be the main component of mucin and CD44 is the major cell surface receptor of HA, necessary for its uptake and catabolism. The aims of this study were to identify the composition of the mucin in cutaneous mucinosis of shar-pei dogs, investigate the correlation between the deposition of HA and the expression of CD44, and determine whether shar-pei dogs with cutaneous mucinosis presented with elevated levels of serum HA. In skin biopsies, the mucinous material was stained intensely with Alcian blue and bound strongly by the hyaluronan-binding protein. No correlation was found between the degree of HA deposition in the dermis and the expression of CD44 in the skin of shar-pei dogs affected or unaffected by cutaneous mucinosis. A clear positive correlation was found between the existence of clinical mucinosis and the serum HA concentration. In control dogs, serum HA ranged from 155.53 to 301.62 microg L(-1) in shar-pei dogs; without mucinosis it ranged from 106.72 to 1251.76 microg L(-1) and in shar-pei dogs with severe mucinosis it ranged between 843.51 to 2330.03 microg L(-1). Altogether, the results reported here suggest that mucinosis of shar-pei dogs is probably the consequence of a genetic defect in the metabolism of HA.
Loss of p120 catenin and links to mitotic alterations, inflammation, and skin cancer.	Tumor formation involves epigenetic modifications and microenvironmental changes as well as cumulative genetic alterations encompassing somatic mutations, loss of heterozygosity, and aneuploidy. Here, we show that conditional targeting of p120 catenin in mice leads to progressive development of skin neoplasias associated with intrinsic NF-kappaB activation. We find that, similarly, squamous cell carcinomas in humans display altered p120 and activated NF-kappaB. We show that epidermal hyperproliferation arising from p120 loss can be abrogated by IkappaB kinase 2 inhibitors. Although this underscores the importance of this pathway, the role of NF-kappaB in hyperproliferation appears rooted in its impact on epidermal microenvironment because as p120-null keratinocytes display a growth-arrested phenotype in culture. We trace this to a mitotic defect, resulting in unstable, binucleated cells in vitro and in vivo. We show that the abnormal mitoses can be ameliorated by inhibiting RhoA, the activity of which is abnormally high. Conversely, we can elicit such mitotic defects in control keratinocytes by elevating RhoA activity. The ability of p120 deficiency to elicit mitotic alterations and chronic inflammatory responses, that together may facilitate the development of genetic instability in vivo, provides insights into why it figures so prominently in skin cancer progression.
The effects of CO2 and external buffering on ammonia excretion and Rhesus glycoprotein mRNA expression in rainbow trout.	Rhesus (Rh) proteins were recently characterized as ammonia gas (NH(3)) channels. Studies indicate, however, that Rh proteins also facilitate CO2 transport in a green alga and in human erythrocytes. Previously, we reported that Rh mRNA expression in various rainbow trout tissues responded to high environmental ammonia. To determine whether or not Rh proteins may also be involved in CO2 transport in rainbow trout, we examined the effects of a 12 h exposure to external hypercapnia (1% CO2 in air) on Rh mRNA expression in the gill, skin and erythrocytes. External hypercapnic conditions lowered the water pH and facilitated ammonia excretion; therefore, we also studied the effects of hypercapnia and normocapnia in the presence of 10 mmol l(-1) Hepes-buffered water. Hepes treatment prevented water acidification, but resulted in elevated plasma ammonia levels and reduced ammonia excretion rates. Hypercapnia exposure without buffering did not elicit changes in Rh mRNA expression in the gill or skin. However, Rhcg2 mRNA expression was downregulated in the gills and upregulated in the skin of both normocapnia- and hypercapnia-exposed fish in Hepes-buffered water. mRNA expression of a newly cloned Rhbg2 cDNA was downregulated in the skin of fish exposed to buffered water, and Rhag mRNA expression in erythrocytes was decreased with exposure to normocapnia in buffered water but not with hypercapnia exposure in either buffered or unbuffered water. With the aid of Hepes buffering, we were able to observe the effects of both CO2 and ammonia on Rh mRNA expression. Overall, we conclude that high CO2 did not directly elicit changes in Rh mRNA transcription levels in the gill and skin, and that the changes observed probably reflect responses to high plasma ammonia, mirroring those in trout exposed to high environmental ammonia. Therefore a dual function for gill and skin Rh proteins in CO2 and ammonia transport is not evident from these results. Rhag expression, however, responded differentially to high CO2 and high ammonia, suggesting a possible dual role in the erythrocytes.
Design and evaluation of chitosan films for transdermal delivery of glimepiride.	Glimepiride is a third generation oral antidiabetic sulphonylurea drug frequently prescribed to patients of type 2 diabetes. However, its oral therapy is encountered with bioavailability problems due to its poor solubility leading to irreproducible clinical response, in addition to adverse effects like dizziness and gastric disturbances. As a potential for convenient, safe and effective antidiabetic therapy, the rationale of this study was to develop a transdermal delivery system for glimepiride. Chitosan polymer was utilized in developing transdermal films for glimepiride. Chitosan has film forming ability, bioadhesive and absorption enhancing properties. Aiming at optimizing the drug delivery and circumventing the skin barrier function, inclusion complexation of glimepiride with beta-cyclodextrin (beta-CyD) as well as the use of several conventional penetration enhancers were monitored for augmenting the drug flux. The physical and mechanical properties of the prepared films were investigated using tensile testing, IR spectroscopy and X-ray diffractometry. Release studies revealed adequate release rates from chitosan films. Permeation studies through full thickness rat abdominal skin were conducted. High flux values were obtained from films comprising a combination of the drug with limonene and ethanol as well as from films containing glimepiride-beta-CyD complex. In vivo studies on diabetic rats for selected formulae revealed a marked therapeutic efficacy sustained for about 48 hours. The above-mentioned results shed light on feasibility of utilizing chitosan as an effective, safe transdermal delivery system for glimepiride characterized by increased patient compliance and better control of the disease.
The use of metabolising systems for in vitro testing of endocrine disruptors.	Legislation and prospective legislative proposals in for instance the USA, Europe, and Japan require, or may require that chemicals are tested for their ability to disrupt the hormonal systems of mammals. Chemicals found to test positive are considered to be endocrine active substances (EAS) and may be putative endocrine disruptors (EDs). To date, there is still little or no experience with incorporating metabolic and toxicokinetic aspects into in vitro tests for EAS. This is a situation in sharp contrast to genotoxicity testing, where in vitro tests are routinely conducted with and without metabolic capacity. Originally prepared for the Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), this detailed review paper reviews why in vitro assays for EAS should incorporate mammalian systems of metabolism and metabolic enzyme systems, and indicates how this could be done. The background to ED testing, the available test methods, and the role of mammalian metabolism in the activation and the inactivation of both endogenous and exogenous steroids are described. The available types of systems are compared, and the potential problems in incorporating systems in in vitro tests for EAS, and how these might be overcome, are discussed. Lastly, some recommendations for future activities are made.
The expression of vascular endothelial growth factor and its receptors in port-wine stains.	To investigate the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and its receptor (VEGF-R2) in port-wine stains (PWSs).
Preparation and characterization of chitosan-treated alginate microparticles incorporating all-trans retinoic acid.	Chitosan treated alginate microparticles were prepared with the purpose of incorporating all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) using an inexpensive, simple and fast method, enhancing dermal localization and sustaining the release of ATRA into the skin. Microparticles characterization, drug-polymer interaction, release profile and in vitro skin retention were investigated. Microparticles presented spherical shape and drug loading capacity of 47%. The drug content of these microparticles was affected by ATRA concentration and by the solvent used and it was more weakly affected by chitosan concentration. The release of ATRA was also affected by chitosan concentration. Microparticles prepared with 0.4% chitosan (w/w) resulted in drug release with a more sustained profile. The results of in vitro retention studies showed that chitosan treated alginate microparticles decreased the drug retention in the stratum corneum (SC), where occur the skin irritation, but maintained the ATRA concentration in the deeper skin layers, where occur the pathologies treated with ATRA. Then, the microparticles developed in this work can be a good candidate to improve the topical therapy with retinoid.
Development and evaluation of the Sinomenine transdermal patch.	Sinomenine transdermal patch was prepared and its properties were studied. The patches were produced by salivation method. The releasing rate in vitro of the patch was determined by HPLC. Peel test was used to evaluate the adhesion. Acute skin irritation test was performed in comparison with formalin (0.8%) by using mouse model. The Sinomenine TDDS Patch was prepared. The releasing rate in vitro followed the Higuchi equation (r>0.99), the releasing amount was beyond 90% in 24h. The peel adhesion to steel (N/25 mm) is 10 or above. The skin irritation tests showed negligible erythema and edema. The Sinomenine transdermal patch was prepared successfully and it may be beneficial for topical use.
Effect of theophylline on sleep and sleep-disordered breathing in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.	To investigate the effect of theophylline on sleep and sleep-disordered breathing in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), we studied 12 male nonhypercapnic subjects with a mean +/- SEM age of 62.8 +/- 2.5 yr and a FEV1 of 1.36 +/- 0.11 L using a randomized double-blind crossover protocol. Sustained-action theophylline (250 mg three times or four times a day) or placebo was administered for 2 days, and the alternate drug was administered on the following 2 days. Sleep studies were performed on Nights 2 and 4 with spirometry at 9:00P.M. and 7:00A.M. Two puffs of metaproterenol or albuterol were administered at 10:00P.M. on both study nights. A theophylline level, drawn at bedtime (10:00 to 11:00P.M.), was 14.2 +/- 0.78 micrograms/ml on the theophylline nights and less than 2 on placebo nights. The morning FEV1 was significantly better during theophylline administration (1.27 +/- 0.12 versus 1.00 +/- 0.11 L, p less than 0.001). The mean arterial oxygen saturation (SaO2) and transcutaneous carbon dioxide pressure (PCO2) were also better during NREM sleep on theophylline nights. Neither the mean SaO2 and transcutaneous PCO2 during REM sleep nor the apnea plus hypopnea index (events per hour of sleep) differed between placebo and theophylline nights. Theophylline administration did not impair the amount or architecture of sleep as neither total sleep time nor the fraction of time spent in Stages 1, 2, and 3/4 and REM differed between the two regimens. The number of arousals per hour of sleep was slightly less on theophylline nights (19.9 +/- 1.7 versus 24.9 +/- 2.7, p less than 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Indomethacin inhibits the chemical carcinogen benzo(a)pyrene but not dimethylbenz(a)anthracene from altering Langerhans cell distribution and morphology.	Treatment of murine skin with the polyaromatic hydrocarbon carcinogens benzo(a)pyrene (BP) or dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA) for 3 weeks resulted in an increase and a decrease in epidermal Langerhans cell (LC) numbers, respectively, compared with solvent-treated skin. Implantation of subcutaneous indomethacin pellets prior to carcinogen treatment prevented the changes in LC numbers and morphology in BP, but not DMBA-treated skin. Indomethacin treatment was also found to reduce elevated prostaglandin E2 (PGE)2 levels in the skin of BP-treated mice, whereas PGE2 levels were not significantly raised in DMBA-treated mice. There thus appears to be a link between altered prostaglandin levels and LC numbers in murine skin treated with BP, but not DMBA. In the latter, LC numbers were reduced by mechanisms not reversed by indomethacin. It is concluded that increased prostaglandin levels may contribute to the impairment of cutaneous immunity previously observed in BP-treated mice by altering LC density and morphology within the epidermis.
The role of plasminogen activators in alopecia areata.	Plasminogen activators are serine proteinases which transform the serum zymogen, plasminogen, into plasmin, a broad-spectrum protease with fibrinolytic effect. Two main plasminogen activators have been described in humans: urokinase (UK; molecular weight, 55,000) and tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA; molecular weight, 74,000). Thirteen subjects were studied who had alopecia areata (AA), nine in the active phase and four in remission. There were alterations in the perivascular and peribulbar fibrinolytic activity in the nine subjects in the active phase of disease, suggesting a possible role of plasminogen activators in AA. A modified Todd's autohistographic method was used to evaluate cutaneous fibrinolytic activity (which depended on the activity of plasminogen activators) in the 13 AA subjects and five volunteer controls. Cutaneous fibrinolytic activity was reduced in perivascular areas, but increased in peribulbar areas, in the nine subjects in the active phase of disease. Tests with monoclonal antibodies directed against the catalytic sites of tPA and UK showed that the perivascular fibrinolytic activity was tPA dependent, and the peribulbar fibrinolytic activity was UK dependent.
Change in the amount of epsilon-hexosyllysine, UV absorbance, and fluorescence of collagen with age in different animal species.	Skin and aorta collagen specimens of Wistar rats, white mice, beagle dogs, cats, horses, and human necropsies of different ages were examined with respect to the content of glycated products. The data presented show that (a) glycation and accumulation of the chromophore(s) are comparable in collagen samples from different species of comparable age; (b) glycation and pigmented accumulation increase markedly during the first 5-10 years of age; (c) the extent of glycation is different in different tissues (in particular, glycation of aortal collagen is about twice that of skin collagen); and (d) collagen pigmentation as followed by fluorescence is comparable in aortal and skin collagen (except below 10 years); pigmentation measured by absorbance at 350 nm is, on the contrary, lower in aortal than in skin collagen. Based on the assumption of constant blood glucose level during the life span, it appears feasible to conclude that the degree of nonenzymatic collagen glycation reflects the time period for which the protein was exposed to the action of sugars. This period, because of increased cross-linking, is likely to be extended in older animals. Other factors, such as differences in collagen turnover between different tissues and the intensity of the removal process of the glycated products, should be taken into consideration as well.
Effect of dietary arginine restriction upon ornithine and polyamine metabolism during two-stage epidermal carcinogenesis in the mouse.	Polyamine synthesis is required in normal or neoplastic tissues if they are to continue to grow or divide. The highly inducible enzyme ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) catalyzes the conversion of ornithine to putrescine as the initial step in polyamine biosynthesis. The level of substrate pools of ornithine in cultured cells has been reported to markedly alter mitogen-induced ODC activity, putrescine accumulation, and DNA synthesis (V. Wu and C. V. Byus, Biochim. Biophys. Acta, 804: 89-99, 1984; V. Wu et al., Cancer Res., 41: 3384-3391, 1981). We attempted to limit the amount of ornithine available for polyamine biosynthesis in an animal by using a dietary approach. Since arginine serves as one of the intermediate biosynthetic precursors of ornithine, female CD-1 mice were placed on a special synthetic amino acid diet deficient in arginine. The ability of this arginine-free diet to alter epidermal ornithine and polyamine metabolism and tumorigenesis was assessed in the mouse two-stage model of skin carcinogenesis. The basal level of ornithine in the epidermis in control animals receiving the amino acid complete diet was very high compared to other tissues (155 nmol/mg protein). However, when the mice were fed the isocaloric arginine-free diet for a 2-week period, the levels of epidermal ornithine and arginine decreased by 40% (P less than 0.01). This reduction was blocked by the addition of 2% ornithine to the drinking water of the arginine-restricted animals. Acute administration of 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) to the epidermis caused a transient (4 and 8 h) reduction in ornithine and arginine but not lysine in the animals receiving the control, and ornithine-supplemented diets. The animals fed the special arginine-free diet exhibited a 40-50% reduction in tumor multiplicity or papillomas/mouse (P less than 0.05) and had a significantly lower tumor incidence or percentage of animals with tumour throughout a 19-week promotion period (P less than 0.02). However, the major effect of arginine restriction was consistent with an increase in tumor latency. The addition of ornithine completely reversed the reduction in the rate and extent of tumorigenesis in the arginine-free animals. The accumulation of putrescine (but not spermidine or spermine) in the epidermis following a single administration of TPA was significantly reduced in the animals receiving the arginine-free diet. The papillomas or tumors from the animals deprived of arginine had markedly reduced (less than 35%) levels of putrescine compared to the tumors from control animals, and appeared to be more sensitive to dietary arginine restriction than was the chronically promoted but untransformed epidermis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Decrease in skin collagen glycation with improved glycemic control in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.	Glycation, oxidation, and nonenzymatic browning of protein have all been implicated in the development of diabetic complications. The initial product of glycation of protein, fructoselysine (FL), undergoes further reactions, yielding a complex mixture of browning products, including the fluorescent lysine-arginine cross-link, pentosidine. Alternatively, FL may be cleaved oxidatively to form N(epsilon)-(carboxymethyl)lysine (CML), while glycated hydroxylysine, an amino-acid unique to collagen, may yield N(epsilon)-(carboxymethyl)hydroxylysine (CMhL). We have measured FL, pentosidine, fluorescence (excitation = 328 nm, emission = 378 nm), CML, and CMhL in insoluble skin collagen from 14 insulin-dependent diabetic patients before and after a 4-mo period of intensive therapy to improve glycemic control. Mean home blood glucose fell from 8.7 +/- 2.5 (mean +/- 1 SD) to 6.8 +/- 1.4 mM (P less than 0.005), and mean glycated hemoglobin (HbA1) from 11.6 +/- 2.3% to 8.3 +/- 1.1% (P less than 0.001). These changes were accompanied by a significant decrease in glycation of skin collagen, from 13.2 +/- 4.3 to 10.6 +/- 2.3 mmol FL/mol lysine (P less than 0.002). However, levels of browning and oxidation products (pentosidine, CML, and CMhL) and fluorescence were unchanged. These results show that the glycation of long-lived proteins can be decreased by improved glycemic control, but suggest that once cumulative damage to collagen by browning and oxidation reactions has occurred, it may not be readily reversed. Thus, in diabetic patients, institution and maintenance of good glycemic control at any time could potentially limit the extent of subsequent long-term damage to proteins by glycation and oxidation reactions.
Glycosaminoglycan degradation by cultured retinal pigment epithelium from patients with retinitis pigmentosa.	Patients with certain systemic deficiencies in the degradation of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) often suffer from a retinal degeneration similar to that seen in retinitis pigmentosa. This applies to mucopolysaccharidosis (MPS) types I, II, and III, but not to type VI. The retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) is thought to contribute significantly to the synthesis and degradation of proteoglycans in the interphotoreceptor matrix. This raises the possibility that a defect in the synthesis or degradation of GAGs by the RPE may be related to some forms of retinal degeneration. In the present work, RPE from normal and RP donors was investigated for the capacity to correct deficiencies in GAG degradation by cultured skin fibroblasts from patients with different forms of MPS. A cross-correction technique was used in which abnormal increases in the incorporation of 35S-sulfate into GAGs by MPS fibroblasts was measured in the absence or presence of RPE cultures. RPE from normal donors corrected the defects in GAG degradation of fibroblasts from patients with MPS I, II, and III, but not MPS VI. The RPE from four donors with retinitis pigmentosa (one autosomal dominant, one sex-linked, and two isolated cases) and one donor with an unclassified isolated retinal degeneration demonstrated the same capacities to correct the MPS deficiencies as did normal RPE. Therefore, although retinitis pigmentosa is a heterogeneous disorder with several possible etiologies, no evidence was found in these five patients for a defect in GAG degradation that resembles the deficiencies of MPS patients.
Isotopic and genetic evidence for culturally inherited site fidelity to feeding grounds in southern right whales (Eubalaena australis).	Ocean warming will undoubtedly affect the migratory patterns of many marine species, but specific changes can be predicted only where behavioural mechanisms guiding migration are understood. Southern right whales show maternally inherited site fidelity to near-shore winter nursery grounds, but exactly where they feed in summer (collectively and individually) remains mysterious. They consume huge quantities of copepods and krill, and their reproductive rates respond to fluctuations in krill abundance linked to El Nio Southern Oscillation (ENSO). Here we show that genetic and isotopic signatures, analysed together, indicate maternally directed site fidelity to diverse summer feeding grounds for female right whales calving at Pennsula Valds, Argentina. Isotopic values from 131 skin samples span a broad range (-23.1 to -17.2 C, 6.0 to 13.8 N) and are more similar than expected among individuals sharing the same mitochondrial haplotype. This pattern indicates that calves learn summer feeding locations from their mothers, and that the timescale of culturally inherited site fidelity to feeding grounds is at least several generations. Such conservatism would be expected to limit the exploration of new feeding opportunities, and may explain why this population shows increased rates of reproductive failure in years following elevated sea-surface temperature anomalies off South Georgia, the richest known feeding ground for baleen whales in the South Atlantic.
Preparation of matrine ethosome, its percutaneous permeation in vitro and anti-inflammatory activity in vivo in rats.	The aim of this work was to evaluate the preparation of matrine ethosome and the percutaneous permeation in vitro and the anti-inflammatory activity in vivo in the rat skin. The matrine ethosomes were prepared by the ethanol injection-sonication method. The particle size of the ethosomes was measured by a laser particle-size analyzer, and the entrapment efficiency was detected by ultracentrifugation. The anti-inflammatory activity in vivo of the matrine formulations was determined by a reflection spectrophotometer. In this study, we found that the average particle size of matrine ethosomes was in the range of 50-200 nm with a narrow distribution, and the entrapment efficiency was in the range of 40-90%. Compared with other formulations, matrine ethosomes had the largest 24-hour accumulative permeation quantity (60.5%) and with no permeation lag time. Matrine ethosomes were able to make the induced erythema disappear more rapidly than the nonethosomes formulations of matrine. This study reveals that the average particle size of matrine ethosomes decreases with the increase of ethanol concentration and increases with the increase of phospholipid concentration, while the entrapment efficiency increases with the increase of the concentration of both ethanol and phospholipid. Matrine ethosomes can increase the percutaneous permeation of matrine in the experiment in vitro and improve the anti-inflammatory activity of matrine in vivo in rat skin.
Transdermal enhancement through rat skin of luciferase plasmid DNA loaded in elastic nanovesicles.	Transdermal absorption of luciferase plasmid (pLuc) was enhanced by loading in elastic cationic liposomes and niosomes and the application of iontophoresis or the stratum corneum (SC) stripping method. Cationic liposomes (DPPC/Chol/DDAB at a 1:1:1 molar ratio) and niosomes (Tween61/Chol/DDAB at a 1:1:0.5 molar ratio) were prepared by the freeze-dried empty liposomes method. The elastic vesicles were prepared by hydrating the lipid or surfactant film by 25% of ethanol instead of distilled water. Gel electrophoresis of all nanovesicles showed the 100% pLuc entrapment efficiency. All nanovesicles loaded with pLuc showed larger vesicular sizes than the nonloaded vesicles of about 1.4 times for liposomes and 1.7 times for niosomes. The nanovesicles loaded with pLuc demonstrated less positive zeta potential than the nonloaded vesicles. The pLuc loaded in elastic vesicles kept at 4 +/- 2 and 27 +/- 2 degrees C for 8 weeks gave the remaining pLuc of about 70 and 60% for liposomes and 85 and 73% for niosomes, respectively. For nonelastic vesicles kept at 4 +/- 2 degrees C, 56 and 61% of the remaining pLuc were observed for liposomes and niosomes, respectively, while at 27 +/- 2 degrees C, all pLuc were degraded. The deformability indices of the elastic liposomes and niosomes loaded with the pLuc were 16.64 +/- 2.92 and 20.72 +/- 0.82, whereas the nonelastic vesicles gave 9.35 +/- 0.09 and 10.08 +/- 0.12, respectively. Transdermal absorption through rat skin pretreated with SC stripping or treated with iontophoresis of pLuc loaded in nanovesicles by vertical Franz diffusion cells was investigated at 37 degrees C. The cells were stopped and the skin and the receiving solution were withdrawn at 1, 3, and 6 hours and the pLuc contents in the stripped SC, whole skin (viable epidermis and dermis; VED), and the receiving solution were assayed by the modified gel electrophoresis and gel documentation. Without the SC stripping technique or iontophoresis, the pLuc loaded and nonloaded in nonelastic cationic liposomes or niosomes were not found in SC, VED, and receiving solution. The fluxes in the whole skin of pLuc loaded in nonelastic liposomes and niosomes with SC stripping and iontophoresis at 6 hours gave 2.73 +/- 0.46 and 3.83 +/- 0.73, and 7.01 +/- 1.22 and 9.60 +/- 1.31 g/cm(2)/h, respectively, while pLuc loaded in elastic liposomes and niosomes without the SC stripping and iontophoresis at 6 hours showed 2.79 +/- 0.09 and 2.84 +/- 0.04 g/cm(2)/h, respectively. The pLuc loaded in elastic niosomes or in nonelastic niosomes with iontophoresis was found in the receiving solution with a higher amount than that loaded in elastic liposomes or nonelastic liposomes with iontophoresis. The fluxes in the receiving solution of pLuc loaded in nonelastic liposomes and niosomes with iontophoresis at 6 hours were 6.71 +/- 0.31 and 8.82 +/- 0.28 g/cm(2)/h, respectively. For elastic liposomes and niosomes, the fluxes of the loaded pLuc in the receiving solution were the same, at about 1.9 g/cm(2)/h. Although pLuc loaded in nonelastic niosomes with iontophoresis gave the highest delivery of the plasmid in VED and receiving solution, a more promising applicable approach for gene delivery has been suggested to be the elastic niosomal systems, since no equipment is required.
Prognostic criteria for squamous cell cancer of the skin.	Non-well-differentiated cutaneous squamous cell carcinomas may display a more aggressive behavior. It is important to better define prognostic criteria for these tumors.
Characterization of an alarm pheromone secreted by amphibian tadpoles that induces behavioral inhibition and suppression of the neuroendocrine stress axis.	Many species assess predation risk through chemical cues, but the tissue source, chemical nature, and mechanisms of production or action of these cues are often unknown. Amphibian tadpoles show rapid and sustained behavioral inhibition when exposed to chemical cues of predation. Here we show that an alarm pheromone is produced by ranid tadpole skin cells, is released into the medium via an active secretory process upon predator attack, and signals predator presence to conspecifics. The pheromone is composed of two components with distinct biophysical properties that must be combined to elicit the behavioral response. In addition to the behavioral response, exposure to the alarm pheromone caused rapid and strong suppression of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, as evidenced by a time and dose-dependent decrease in whole body corticosterone content. Reversing the decline in endogenous corticosterone caused by exposure to the alarm pheromone through addition of corticosterone to the aquarium water (50 nM) partially blocked the anti-predator behavior, suggesting that the suppression of the HPA axis promotes the expression and maintenance of a behaviorally quiescent state. To our knowledge this is the first evidence for aquatic vertebrate prey actively secreting an alarm pheromone in response to predator attack. We also provide a neuroendocrine mechanism by which the behavioral inhibition caused by exposure to the alarm pheromone is maintained until the threat subsides.
Immunohistology of bullous autoimmune skin diseases]	Autoimmune bullous dermatoses undertake frequently oropharyngeal mucous membranes and the skin surface, either in succession or simultaneously. Actual observation technics by photon and electron microscopy, by immunofluorescence and immunohistochemistry (with specific antibodies) have allowed to differentiate more particularly pemphigus, bullous pemphigoid, cicatricial pemphigoid, acquired bullous epidermolysis, all autoimmune bullous affections.
Subcorneal pustular dermatosis and IgA paraproteinaemia: response to both etretinate and PUVA.	A non-insulin dependent male diabetic is reported with subcorneal pustular dermatosis associated with intraepidermal IgA deposits and a benign IgA paraproteinaemia. Treatment with dapsone and etretinate was reasonably effective, but etretinate had to be discontinued due to the development of diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis. His subcorneal pustular dermatosis subsequently flared and was troublesome for 2 years until he was commenced on PUVA, with excellent response.
The regulation of epidermal lipid synthesis by permeability barrier requirements.	A major function of the skin is to prevent the loss of fluids. The barrier to fluid loss resides in the intercellular lipids (primarily sterols, fatty acids, and sphingolipids) of the stratum corneum. The epidermis is a very active site of lipid synthesis and when the permeability barrier is disrupted by topical solvents or detergents a marked stimulation of sterol, fatty acid, and sphingolipid synthesis occurs. Essential fatty acid deficient mice, with a chronic disturbance in barrier function, also have an increase in epidermal lipid synthesis. When the defect in barrier function is artificially corrected by occlusion with a water vapor impermeable membrane the increase in epidermal lipid synthesis is prevented, suggesting that water flux may be a regulatory factor. The activity of the key rate limiting enzyme in cholesterol synthesis, HMG CoA reductase is increased following barrier disruption due to both an increased quantity of enzyme and an increase in activation state. Similarly, the activity of serine palmitoyl transferase, the rate limiting enzyme in sphingolipid synthesis is also increased following barrier disruption. Occlusion prevents the increase in HMG CoA reductase and serine palmitoyl transferase activity. When the increase in epidermal lipid synthesis is inhibited by occlusion the characteristic rapid return of stratum corneum lipids and recovery of barrier function is prevented. Moreover, when epidermal cholesterol synthesis is inhibited by lovastatin, an inhibitor of HMG CoA reductase, the rate of recovery of barrier structure and function is delayed. Similarly, B chloroalanine, an inhibitor of serine palmitoyl transferase and sphingolipid synthesis, also impairs barrier recovery. Thus, disruption of the barrier stimulates epidermal lipid synthesis which provides the lipids necessary for the repair of the barrier. The signals that initiate and coordinate this response are yet to be defined, but the understanding of this process may allow for pharmacological interventions that will specifically disrupt the barrier and allow for the transcutaneous delivery of drugs.
Enhanced skin permeability for transdermal drug delivery: physiopathological and physicochemical considerations.	To deliver drugs through the skin for systemic medication, the skin permeability needs enhancing by either modifying the drug molecules, or applying skin permeation enhancers to reduce the barrier property of the skin. Traditionally, the enhancement of skin permeability is considered as the result from the improvement of the lipophilicity of drugs and the partition of drugs into the skin, or from the direct actions of skin permeation enhancers on the chemical structure and/or composition of lipids and proteins in the stratum corneum. However, on the other hand, the skin also responds to drugs and/or skin permeation enhancers physiopathologically via its inflammatory and immune reaction. The physiopathological responses of the skin can also induce the changes in the chemical structure and composition of lipids and proteins in the skin. Therefore, the possible role of physiopathological responses of the skin in the enhanced skin permeability should be concerned.
Translational lessons from scarless healing of cutaneous wounds and regenerative repair of the myocardium.	Regenerative healing is the process by which injured tissues are restored to their original structure and function. Many species are capable of healing in this manner. However, in mammals the healing response in most tissues is marked by fibroblast proliferation and scar tissue deposition. While scarring contributes to efficient resolution of mammalian wounds and restoration of at least partial structural and functional support, the final result of scar formation can be more deleterious than the initial insult. This is especially true in the heart, which is sensitive to electrical heterogeneities and altered mechanical properties produced by scarring. Several therapeutic modalities promoting regeneration in skin wounds have been developed that modulate various aspects of the healing process. Targets include cytokine stimulation, control of fibroblast activation, modulation of gap junctions, and stem cell differentiation. Here, we review and compare mechanisms of injury, repair, and scarring in the skin and heart and discuss the promise and caveats of future therapies that may translate to improving repair of myocardial tissues.
In vitro cardiotoxicity and mechanism of action of the Egyptian green toad Bufo viridis skin secretions.	Amphibian skin secretions are considered a rich source of biologically active compounds and are known to be rich in bufadienolides, peptides and alkaloids. Bufadienolides are cardioactive steroids derived from animals and plants as well. The current study was conducted to investigate the influence of skin secretions of the Egyptian green toad Bufo viridis (SSBV) on the cardiac electrical activity. Isolated toad's heart was used to reveal the mechanism of action. Application of SSBV (40microg/ml) into isolated toad's heart significantly decreased the heart rate (HR) accompanied by an elongation in the conduction time (P-R interval). A pronounced increase of the ventricular contraction (R-wave amplitude) was observed after SSBV application. Marked electrocardiographic changes were induced within minutes (5-20min) of SSBV perfusion of the isolated hearts; such as sinus arrhythmias, junctional ectopic beats, negative QRS deflection, ventricular tachycardia and heart block. The mechanism of action of SSBV was studied by direct application of different autonomic and ion channels antagonists (atropine sulphate, propranolol and verapamil) to isolated toad's heart. Neither atropine nor verapamil could attenuate the noticed negative chronotropic and positive inotropic effects. Meanwhile, post-treatment with propranolol decreased R-wave amplitude. Taken together, it can be concluded that: (i) SSBV has a negative chronotropic, dromotropic and positive inotropic effects on isolated toad's heart; (ii) the reported effects of SSBV could be due to inhibition of Na(+)-K(+) ATPase and through ss-adrenergic receptors.
Naturally derived materials-based cell and drug delivery systems in skin regeneration.	The objective of regenerative medicine is to provide cells with a local environment of artificial extracellular matrix where they can proliferate and differentiate efficiently and therefore, induce the repair of defective tissues according to the natural healing potential of patients. For this purpose, naturally derived materials are being widely used because of their similarities to the extracellular matrix, typically good biocharacteristics and inherent cellular interaction. Also, natural polymers can be engineered to release growth factors and related agents in response to physiologic signals to imitate the natural healing process and to promote fast tissue regeneration and reduce scarring in wounds. Although synthetic materials have been used extensively in tissue engineering fields, this review illustrates the contribution of natural materials and natural materials-based protein delivery systems to regenerative medicine research, with emphasis on the application of multifunctional vehicles for cell and growth factor delivery in skin regeneration research.
Effect of salt acclimation on digitalis-like compounds in the toad.	Digitalis-like compounds (DLC) were shown to be a normal constituent of the skin and plasma of toads. In order to assess the possible physiological role of these compounds in the toad, their levels were determined in the brain, plasma and skin following acclimation in different NaCl solutions. We demonstrate that an increase in salt concentrations in the animal medium from 0 to 1.2% decreased the levels of DLC in the brain by 50% without altering significantly its levels in the plasma and skin. An increase in medium salt concentration to 1.5% resulted in a 50% increase of DLC levels in the skin without changing its levels in the plasma or brain. These results suggest that skin and brain DLC may participate in the long-term salt and water homeostasis in the toad, while the plasma compound either participates in the short-term regulations of salt and water homeostasis or have some other, unknown, function.
Hyaluronan oligosaccharides promote excisional wound healing through enhanced angiogenesis.	The biological roles of hyaluronan (HA) fragments in angiogenesis acceleration have been investigated recently. Studies have confirmed that oligosaccharides of HA (o-HA) are capable of stimulating neovascularization in vitro and promoting blood flow or angiogenesis in animal models. However, few laboratories have studied the function of o-HA as an exogenous treatment in injured tissue repair in vivo. It is thought that o-HA may lose its activities when used topically in vivo due to its small size, which may be absorbed quickly by the surrounding tissues. In this study, we prepared a special slow-releasing gel that contains a mixture of defined size of o-HA and studied the healing effects of o-HA by topical application to an acute wound model. We report that o-HA complex promotes the repair of tissue injury of a murine excisional dermal wound. The therapy by o-HA was compared with high molecular weight HA (HMW-HA) and the known angiogenesis stimulator, VEGF. At days 6 to 8 after treatment, significant differences were seen in wound closure rates between o-HA and control or HMW-HA groups, in which o-HA showed an increased wound recovery. Histological analysis revealed that increased neo-blood and lymph vessels were formed in wounded tissues treated by o-HA. In addition, treatments of wounds with o-HA resulted in more granulation production, collagen deposition, and fibroblast proliferation. Analysis of gene expression by real-time RT-PCR demonstrated a significant up-regulation of some cytokines or adhesion molecules in o-HA-treated wounds, which corresponds with the increased granulation tissue in these wounds. Our findings suggested that o-HA therapy may be useful in acute wound repair.
Recruitment of neutrophils during IgE-dependent cutaneous late phase reactions in the mouse is mast cell-dependent. Partial inhibition of the reaction with antiserum against tumor necrosis factor-alpha.	Much of the clinically important pathology associated with IgE-dependent disorders is thought to reflect the actions of the blood-borne leukocytes recruited during these responses. To evaluate the extent to which mast cells are responsible for the leukocyte infiltration associated with IgE-dependent cutaneous reactions, we attempted to elicit these responses in normal mice, genetically mast cell-deficient W/Wv mice, and in W/Wv mice selectively repaired of their mast cell deficiency by the intradermal injection of cultured mast cells derived from the congenic normal (+/+) mice. We found that the tissue swelling associated with IgE-dependent passive cutaneous anaphylaxis reactions developed rapidly and diminished markedly from 2 to 4 h after antigen challenge, but remained detectable for at least 24 h after elicitation of the responses. Infiltration of leukocytes (predominantly neutrophils) also occurred at these sites, but reached maximal levels 6-12 h after antigen challenge, persisted at high levels for 24 h, and largely waned by 48 h. Virtually all of the tissue swelling and leukocyte infiltration associated with IgE-dependent cutaneous reactions was mast cell dependent. Intradermal injection of 40 U of recombinant murine TNF-alpha (rmTNF-alpha) elicited neutrophil infiltration similar in magnitude and kinetics to that observed after IgE-dependent mast cell degranulation. A rabbit anti-rmTNF-alpha (R anti-rmTNF-alpha) antiserum, which was able to inhibit 84% of the neutrophil infiltration observed after i.d. injection of rmTNF-alpha, inhibited IgE-, and mast cell-dependent leukocyte infiltration by 47 +/- 7% in three separate experiments. These findings indicate that TNF-alpha contributes to mast cell-dependent recruitment of leukocytes during IgE-dependent cutaneous late phase reactions, but suggest that other mast cell-associated mediators probably also contribute to this response.
Glycosaminoglycans production by cultured skin fibroblasts from the Pasini and Cockayne-Touraine forms of dominant dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa.	Qualitative and quantitative comparisons of glycosaminoglycans e (GAG) production were made on fibroblast lines cultured from the skin of six patients with the Pasini (albopapuloid) form of dominant dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa, six with the non-albopapuloid form (Cockayne-Touraine), eight lines from patients with simplex or recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa and eight lines from normal individuals. A reasonable match of donor age and gender, site, and passage number was achieved. Contrary to an earlier report, the lines from the Pasini group were unexceptional in the amount of GAG they secreted and the proportions of sulfated and nonsulfated GAG showed no consistent difference from the Cockayne-Touraine or control lines. The Pasini lines secreted 77 +/- 18 (SEM) microgram GAG-uronic acid per 10(7) cells and the Cockayne-Touraine lines 81 +/- 12 micrograms at equivalent cells densities. Sulfated GAG represented averages of 19 +/- 4+ in Pasini lines, 17 +/- 5% in Cockayne-Touraine, and 14 +/- 3% in controls. These findings are consistent with current views of albopapuloid lesions as an unreliable clinical sign in epidermolysis bullosa and bring into question the validity of the Pasini entity.
Comparative effects of interleukin-1 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha on collagen production and corresponding procollagen mRNA levels in human dermal fibroblasts.	The effects of recombinant human Interleukin-1 alpha (IL-1 alpha), Interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta), and Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) on collagen biosynthesis were studied in vitro using dermal fibroblast cultures. Both forms of IL-1 and TNF-alpha induced a dose-dependent inhibition of both types I and III collagen synthesis, as measured by radioimmunoassay, gel electrophoresis, or collagenase-sensitive material. This effect was accompanied by a significant release of prostaglandin E2 into the culture medium. However, indomethacin, a potent inhibitor of prostaglandin synthesis, could not prevent the inhibitory effect of the three cytokines on collagen synthesis. Measurement of type I and type III procollagen mRNA levels in IL-1 treated cells revealed that both IL-1 alpha and IL-1 beta were potent enhancers of procollagen gene expression at pretranslational level. On the other hand, TNF-alpha was found to reduce the steady-state levels of type I and III procollagen mRNA in a dose-dependent manner. Quantitation of IL-1 beta and TNF-alpha transcripts following TNF-alpha treatment of fibroblasts indicated that this cytokine can induce IL-1 beta gene expression in these cells. By contrast, TNF-alpha mRNA remained at a constant level after TNF-alpha exposure. These data suggest that IL-1 and TNF-alpha, two cytokines that share several biologic activities, modulate collagen deposition in dermal fibroblasts by mechanisms that are clearly different: TNF-alpha appears to act at a transcriptional level to inhibit collagen synthesis, whereas IL-1 inhibitory action involves important translational regulation, still unknown, that counterbalances its stimulatory effect on procollagen mRNA levels. Moreover, our data suggest the existence of local fibroblastic cytokine production that may be involved in the modulation of extracellular matrix deposition.
The mineralocorticoid receptor as a novel player in skin biology: beyond the renal horizon?	The mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) and its ligand aldosterone regulate renal sodium reabsorption and blood pressure and much knowledge has been accumulated in MR physiopathology, cellular and molecular targets. In contrast, our understanding of this hormonal system in non-classical targets (heart, blood vessels, neurons, keratinocytes...) is limited, particularly in the mammalian skin. We review here the few available data that point on MR in the skin and that document cutaneous MR expression and function, based on mouse models and very limited observations in humans. Mice that overexpress the MR in the basal epidermal keratinocytes display developmental and post-natal abnormalities of the epidermis and hair follicle, raising exciting new questions regarding skin biology. The MR as a transcription factor may be an unexpected novel player in regulating keratinocyte and hair physiology and pathology. Because its activating ligand also includes glucocorticoids, that are widely used in dermatology, we propose that the MR may be also involved in the side-effects of corticoids, opening novel options for therapeutical intervention.
MMP-12 catalytic domain recognizes and cleaves at multiple sites in human skin collagen type I and type III.	Collagens of either soft connective or mineralized tissues are subject to continuous remodeling and turnover. Undesired cleavage can be the result of an imbalance between proteases and their inhibitors. Owing to their superhelical structure, collagens are resistant to many proteases and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are required to initiate further degradation by other enzymes. Several MMPs are known to degrade collagens, but the action of MMP-12 has not yet been studied in detail. In this work, the potential of MMP-12 in recognizing sites in human skin collagen types I and III has been investigated. The catalytic domain of MMP-12 binds to the triple helix and cleaves the typical sites -Gly(775)-Leu(776)- in alpha-2 type I collagen and -Gly(775)-Ile(776)- in alpha-1 type I and type III collagens and at multiple other sites in both collagen types. Moreover, it was observed that the region around these typical sites contains comparatively less prolines, of which some have been proven to be only partially hydroxylated. This is of relevance since partial hydroxylation in the vicinity of a potential scissile bond may have a local effect on the conformational thermodynamics with probable consequences on the collagenolysis process. Taken together, the results of the present work confirm that the catalytic domain of MMP-12 alone binds and degrades collagens I and III.
Absorption of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) after low dose dermal exposure.	Human dermal exposure to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) occurs through contact with soil and paper products. In a previous study, relative percutaneous absorption of TCDD increased as the dose decreased (Brewster et al., 1989). To determine the rate of absorption of a low dose of TCDD, absorption, distribution, and elimination were examined at 1, 4, 8, 12, 24, 48, 72, and 120 hr after dermal application of 200 pmol (111 pmol/cm2) [3H]TCDD to 10-week-old male Fischer 344 rats. The compound was applied over a 1.8 cm2 area of the interscapular region of the back in 60 microliters acetone and covered with a perforated cap; animals were held in individual metabolism cages. Within 120 hr after dosing, 82 pmol (26 ng) of TCDD was absorbed. Absorption kinetics appeared to be first-order; the absorption rate constant was 0.005 hr-1. At each time point, greater than 70% of the radioactivity detected in the application site could be removed by swabbing with acetone. The time-related increase in the amount of TCDD in liver and fat closely paralleled the amount absorbed, while the percentage of the administered dose detected in the blood was never greater than 0.3%. Thus, absorption of a low dose of TCDD through the skin is extremely slow and appears to be a first-order process.
Skin banking: a simple method for cryopreservation of split-thickness skin and cultured human epidermal keratinocytes.	A simple unit has been developed for the simultaneous passive cooling of small and large amounts of allograft or autograft split-thickness skin, as well as cultured human epidermis. An expanded polystyrene box of variable size, aluminum plates, and cellulose tissue are fused. This unit is cooled in a -70 degrees C constant-temperature mechanical refrigerator. Maximal cooling rates of -1.3 degrees C min-1 are obtained in a box with a constant wall thickness of cellulose tissue. The cooling rate can be varied by altering the number of cellulose layers. Exothermic temperature plateaus associated with skin cooled in this unit last for less than 0.3 minutes. The viability of the cryopreserved skin was determined by using up to four methods simultaneously: a dye-exclusion test with trypan blue; glucose consumption; production of lactate; and carbon-13 nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Using a cryoprotectant medium with 15% (vol/vol) glycerol for split-thickness skin 0.25 mm thick, a storage time of up to 509 days at -70 degrees C was observed, with only a small decrease in viability (trypan blue, 62.5%; glucose consumption, 71 to 90% compared with freshly harvested skin). Storage in liquid nitrogen did not significantly improve results (p greater than 0.05).
Localization of endogenous beta-galactoside-binding lectin in human cells and tissues.	A rabbit antiserum raised against the 14.5-kilodalton (kDa) subunit of human splenic galaptin was used to probe protein blots of several tissue extracts. For all tissues examined, the only immunoreactive species detected was a 14.5-kDa polypeptide. This antiserum and a rabbit antiserum raised against native lung galaptin were used in immunohistochemical assays to determine the localization of galaptin in selected tissues and cells. In normal colon, galaptin was found prominently in the basement membrane and in the stroma. The cytoplasm of epithelial cells stained lightly for galaptin whereas mucous granules and secreted mucin were uniformly negative for galaptin. Hemagglutination inhibition assays also failed to demonstrate an interaction between galaptin and mucin. Macrophages stained conspicuously for galaptin in colonic and cutaneous tissue as did some capillary walls. In cutaneous tissue, the extracellular matrix and hair follicle cells contained abundant galaptin. Galaptin was absent in basal cell carcinoma and associated stroma. Galaptin was found throughout the cytoplasm of carcinoma cells of gynecologic origin present in effusions. Protein blot analysis of extracts of extracellular matrix synthesized in vitro by endothelial cells confirmed the presence of galaptin in matrix. The results show that: (1) galaptin is variably expressed by different cells and tissues; (2) its cellular location is not restricted to the cell surface; (3) galaptin is not associated with normal mucin; (4) the extracellular matrix is a major site of galaptin deposition, and (5) some malignant tissue may be characterized by a deficiency of galaptin.
Distribution of iduronate 2-sulphate residues in heparan sulphate. Evidence for an ordered polymeric structure.	The structure of human skin fibroblast heparan sulphate has been examined by depolymerization with heparinase, which specifically cleaves highly sulphated disaccharides of structure GlcNSO3 (+/-6S)-alpha 1,4IdoA(2S) [N-sulphated glucosamine (6-sulphate)-alpha 1,4-iduronic acid 2-sulphate]. Heparan sulphate contained only a small proportion (approximately 10%) of linkages susceptible to this enzyme. The major products of depolymerization with heparinase were large oligosaccharides with an average molecular mass of 10 kDa (dp approximately 40, where dp is degree of polymerization; for disaccharides, dp = 2 etc.) as assessed by gel filtration on Sepharose CL-6B, compared with a molecular mass of 45 kDa (dp approximately 200) for the intact chains. The large heparinase-resistant oligosaccharides were highly susceptible to depolymerization with the enzyme heparitinase, which cleaves heparan sulphate in areas of low sulphation, where N-acetylated disaccharides [GlcNAc-alpha 1,4GlcA (N-acetylglucosaminyl-alpha 1,4-glucuronic acid)] are the predominant structural unit. Further analysis of the location of the heparinase cleavage sites indicated that they were predominantly found in a central position in GlcNSO3-alpha 1,4IdoA repeat sequences of average length four to seven disaccharides (dp 8-14). These results indicate that heparinase cleaves heparan sulphate in approximately four or five N-sulphated domains, each domain containing a cluster of two or three susceptible disaccharides; the domains are separated by long N-acetyl-rich sequences that are markedly deficient in sulphate groups. On the basis of these findings a model is proposed which depicts heparan sulphate as an ordered polymeric structure composed of an alternate arrangement of sulphate-rich and sulphate-poor regions. The sulphate-rich regions are likely to be flexible areas of the chain because of their high content of the conformationally versatile IdoA and IdoA(2S) residues. The model has important implications for the biosynthesis and functions of heparan sulphate.
In vitro penetration of tritium-labelled water (THO) and [3H]PbTx-3 (a red tide toxin) through monkey buccal mucosa and skin.	The permeability coefficients (Kp) for tritium-labelled water (THO) were determined in human and monkey skin, and monkey buccal mucosa. Kp of human skin (0.47 x 10(-3) cm/h) correlated favorably with previous reports. Kp of hydrated monkey skin for THO (0.77 x 10(-3) cm/h) was not significantly different (P greater than 0.05) from Kp of hydrated human skin (0.88 x 10(-3) cm/h). Kp of monkey buccal mucosa for THO (6.15 x 10(-3) cm/h) was significantly greater than that for monkey skin. Penetration and disposition of [3H]PbTx-3 into layers of monkey buccal mucosa and skin was determined. [3H]PbTx-3 (5-7 microCi) dissolved in 2 ml of water was applied to epithelial/epidermal surface (2.8 cm2) at zero time. The relative percent dose recovered from the upper layers of buccal mucosa (epithelium) and skin (epidermis) varied, but at each time interval was less than 2.5% of the dose. At most of the time intervals (2-24 h), a larger percent of the dose was recovered from the inner layer of the buccal mucosa (lamina propria) than from the inner layer of skin (dermis). After 24 h, as much as 34 or 13% of the dose was recovered from lamina propria or dermis, respectively. At each time interval studied, less than 2% of dose of [3H]PbTx-3 penetrated into the receptor fluid which bathed the inner surfaces of the lamina propria or dermis. The results of this study demonstrate that monkey buccal mucosa is more permeable than skin to THO and PbTx-3.
Interaction of ascorbic acid and glucose on production of collagen and proteoglycan by fibroblasts.	Collagen and proteoglycans are two major constituents of the extracellular matrix, and their abnormalities have been incriminated in the pathogenesis of diabetic complications. A decrease of plasma ascorbic acid has been reported in diabetes and thus may play a role in the collagen and proteoglycan abnormalities in diabetes. Ascorbic acid and glucose share structural similarity, and their metabolism may interact at the level of membrane transport and cellular action. In this study, we used a fibroblast culture system to explore this possibility. Ascorbic acid increased collagen and proteoglycan both in the culture medium and the cell layer. This stimulatory action of ascorbic acid was inhibited by the presence of glucose at a concentration of 25 mM. The effect of high glucose concentration was not mediated by inhibition of ascorbic acid uptake by fibroblasts. Insulin is able to abolish this inhibitory action of glucose on collagen production, but the precise mechanism is unclear. These results show that the high glucose concentration in diabetes can impair the action of ascorbic acid at the cellular level. This may further accentuate the problem of decreased availability of this vitamin as a result of its low plasma concentration.
Porokeratoses: immunohistochemical, light and electron microscopic evaluation.	Punch biopsy specimens of 14 patients with porokeratosis of Mibelli (n = 1), disseminated superficial porokeratosis (n = 6), disseminated superficial actinic porokeratosis (n = 4), porokeratosis plantaris, palmaris et disseminata (n = 2), and punctate porokeratosis (n = 1) were obtained for light and electron microscopy for evaluation of possible differences between these clinical variants. Langerhans cells in close contact with early degenerating keratinocytes could be observed in the epidermis. To study the cellular composition of the epidermal inflammatory infiltrate immunohistochemistry was performed. These studies demonstrated that the predominant cell type in these infiltrates are helper T cells, intermingled with Leu-6+ Langerhans cells. Despite the clinical variation and possible different etiologic or triggering mechanisms, the immunohistochemical and morphologic changes in all types of porokeratosis are the same and seem to represent a uniform reaction pattern.
The involvement of alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone in the hyperpigmentation of human skin autografts.	Hyperpigmentation occurs frequently in human skin autografts, resulting in an unsatisfactory appearance.
Interactions between inositol phosphates and cytosolic free calcium following bradykinin stimulation in cultured human skin fibroblasts.	The inositol triphosphate (IP3) that results from hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2) is generally accepted to be responsible for the mobilization of intracellular calcium. However, some studies suggest that low concentrations of agonists elevate cytosolic free calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) without IP3 formation. Thus, in the present studies, a comparison of the temporal response of inositol phosphates (IP3, IP2 and IP) and [Ca2+]i to a wide range of bradykinin concentrations was used to examine the relation of these two signal transduction events in cultured human skin fibroblasts (GM3652). In addition, the effects of alterations in internal or external calcium on the response of these second messengers to bradykinin were determined. Bradykinin stimulated accumulation of inositol phosphates and a rise of [Ca2+]i in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Decreasing the bradykinin concentration from 1 microM to 0.1 microM increased the time until the IP3 peak, and when the bradykinin concentration was reduced to 0.01 microM IP3 was not detected. [Ca2+]i was examined under parallel conditions. As the bradykinin concentration was reduced from 1 microM to 0.01 microM, the time to reach the peak of [Ca2+]i increased progressively, but the magnitude of the peak was unaltered. These two second messengers were variably dependent on external calcium. Although the bradykinin-stimulated initial spike of [Ca2+]i did not depend on extracellular calcium, the subsequent sustained levels of [Ca2+]i were abolished in calcium free medium. The bradykinin-stimulated inositol phosphate formation was not dependent on the extracellular calcium nor on the elevation of [Ca2+]i that was produced with Br-A23187. These results demonstrate that bradykinin-induced IP3 formation can be independent of [Ca2+]i and of external calcium, whereas changes in [Ca2+]i are partially dependent on external calcium.
Intravascular malignant lymphomatosis: a case of T-cell lymphoma probably associated with human T-cell lymphotropic virus.	Intravascular malignant lymphomatosis (IML) is an unusual condition characterized by proliferation of lymphoma cells exclusively within the blood vessels. Most of the cases reported are of B-cell origin. We report a rare case of T-cell IML probably associated with human T-lymphotropic virus (HTLV-1) infection. The present case suggests that T-cell lymphoma and HTLV-1-associated lymphoma occasionally represent a form of intravascular proliferation.
Transdermal iontophoretic delivery of terbinafine hydrochloride: quantitation of drug levels in stratum corneum and underlying skin.	The objective of this study was to determine the effect of iontophoresis on the delivery of terbinafine hydrochloride (4%, w/w) into and across hairless rat skin. In vitro skin uptake and permeation studies were performed using Franz diffusion cells. Anodal iontophoresis was applied for 1h at current densities of 0.2, 0.3 and 0.4mA/cm(2). In addition, iontophoresis was applied for 15, 30, 45 and 60min. Studies were conducted in which the formulation was either removed or left in contact with the skin following iontophoresis and then passive delivery was assessed 23h later. Tape stripping and skin extraction were performed to quantify drug levels in the stratum corneum and the underlying skin, respectively. The samples were analyzed using HPLC. The amount of drug delivered into the stratum corneum following iontophoresis was not significantly different from the amount delivered passively (p>0.05). However, drug levels in the underlying skin were significantly higher for the iontophoretic group. The amount of terbinafine delivered into the skin layers was influenced by current density and duration of current application. Leaving the drug formulation in contact with the skin during the post-iontophoretic period had a significant effect on drug levels delivered into skin layers. Iontophoresis enhanced the delivery of terbinafine hydrochloride into the skin layers and, therefore, may be used to improve the treatment of skin fungal infections.
An animal model for the study of azidothymidine-induced hyperpigmentation.	Mice fed azidothymidine demonstrated dramatic hyperpigmentation of their tails. Histologic examination demonstrated large quantities of melanin pigment throughout the entire epidermal layer. Control mice had scant melanin pigment localized to the basal layer. Our findings demonstrate that the mouse is a useful model for the investigation of drug-induced hyperpigmentation.
The in vitro uptake and metabolism of lignocaine, procainamide and pethidine by tissues of the hindquarters of sheep.	1. In vitro studies using tissue slices or tissue homogenates of liver, skeletal muscle, fat skin and blood were conducted to determine whether the uptake of procainamide, lignocaine and pethidine into the hindquarters of sheep was due to distribution or metabolism. Both homogenates and slice preparations of liver showed significant metabolism or uptake, confirming the viability of the preparations. 2. None of the drugs was metabolized in blood and there was minimal uptake of the drugs into the skin. 3. There was metabolism of pethidine in skeletal muscle and substantial uptake of pethidine into fat, indicating that the rapid rate of uptake and prolonged elution of pethidine in the hindquarters was due to both distribution and metabolism. 4. No metabolism of lignocaine in muscle was found, but there was substantial uptake into fat, indicating that the rapid rate of uptake and prolonged elution of lignocaine in the hindquarters was due to its distribution into fat. 5. There was negligible uptake of procainamide into either muscle or fat, presumably due to its relatively low lipophilicity.
Kinetics of distribution and elimination of DDE in rats.	1. Rats were given single i.v. doses of 14C-DDE, and total drug (14C) and unchanged DDE (g.l.c.) were measured for up to 14 days in blood, tissues, and excreta. The 14C recoveries amounted to 90.0 +/- 10.8 (SD) % dose. 2. DDE underwent redistribution from blood to liver, muscle, skin and, ultimately, adipose tissue. The tissue/blood concentration ratios were 6 for liver and muscle, 35 for skin, 400 for adipose tissue. Concentrations in blood and lean tissues declined biphasically with beta-half-lives of 8-12 days. The half-lives for adipose tissue and total body burden were larger by one order of magnitude. However, due to the increase of adipose tissue mass with time, the amount of DDE stored therein remained constant at almost 60% dose. 3. Except for liver, no substantial metabolite concentrations in tissues were found. In particular, lipophilic metabolites were clearly absent. Thus, tissue kinetics and storage are controlled by unchanged DDE. 4. Of a given dose of DDE, 31% was excreted in the faeces as polar metabolites within 14 days, and 3-4% dose as DDE. Urinary excretion was negligible. The beta-half-life of faecal excretion was equal to the one in blood and lean tissues. It is concluded that excretion is limited by the slow formation of polar metabolites of DDE.
DHT formation and degradation in cultured human skin fibroblasts: DHT accumulation in the genital skin.	The conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone (DHT) by 5 alpha-reductase and the interconversion between DHT and 5 alpha-androstane-3 alpha, 17 beta-diol (3 alpha-diol) by 3 alpha-hydroxy-steroid oxidoreductase (3 alpha-HSOR) were studied in fibroblasts derived from the genital skin of 22 males and 6 females, and from the nongenital skin of 19 males and 9 females with normal gonadal function. The formation of DHT from testosterone (5 alpha-reduction) was significantly greater in fibroblasts from genital skin than in those from nongenital skin in both males (2.15 +/- 1.43 vs 0.81 +/- 0.46 pmol/mg protein/h, mean +/- SD, P less than 0.001) and females (2.52 +/- 1.99 vs 0.69 +/- 0.18, P less than 0.01). Furthermore, DHT formation from 3 alpha-diol (3 alpha-HSOR oxidation) was also significantly greater in genital skin fibroblasts than in nongenital skin fibroblasts of males (5.47 +/- 3.37 vs 2.52 +/- 1.74 pmol/mg protein/h, P less than 0.01). However, the degradation of DHT to 3 alpha- and/or 3 beta-diol (3 alpha- and/or 3 beta-HSOR reductions) was not different between genital and nongenital skin fibroblasts of either males or females. Respective ratios of DHT formation to DHT degradation (5 alpha-reduction/3 alpha-HSOR reduction, 3 alpha-HSOR oxidation/3 alpha-HSOR reduction) were also significantly greater (P less than 0.002) in genital skin fibroblasts than in nongenital skin fibroblasts of males. On the other hand, both DHT formation and degradation were not different between male and female genital skin fibroblasts. These results suggest that the increased production of DHT in genital compared to nongenital skin results from increased 5 alpha-reduction and 3 alpha-HSOR oxidation.
The role of testosterone in trichloroethylene penetration in vitro.	Sex differences are known to exist in the metabolism and bioavailability of trichloroethylene (TCE). This study revealed that dermal penetration of [14C]TCE in vitro was twofold greater in untreated female than in untreated male Sprague-Dawley rats. Since testosterone has been shown to mediate a wide variety of sex differences, its role in dermal penetration of [14C]TCE was investigated. Penetration was measured by using an in vitro evaporation-penetration cell with a 10-hr collection period. Depriving male rats of testosterone (by castration) resulted in increased values for total penetration, area under the curve (AUC), and penetration slopes compared to those for male control animals. The values for male animals deprived of testosterone approached those found in the female control group. Administration of testosterone to female animals produced values for total penetration, AUC, and penetration slopes significantly lower than those of the female control group.
Breast carcinomas synthesize factors which influence osteoblast-like cells independently of osteoclasts in vitro.	Bone metastases in breast cancer may be osteolytic, osteosclerotic, or a mixture of the two. Although stimulation of bone resorption by breast cancer cells has attracted some interest, the formation of osteosclerotic secondary tumours and the influence of human mammary carcinoma cells on osteoblasts (bone forming cells), both important in understanding breast cancer--bone interactions, have been largely neglected. We therefore examined the effects of conditioned medium (CM) from two cultured human breast cancer cell lines (MCF7 and ZR-75) and from primary cultures of breast carcinomas from two patients, on osteoblasts and recruitment of bone-resorbing cells (osteoclasts) in vitro. Osteoblast-like cells (BDC) were cultured from human trabecular bone explants. Osteoclast maturation was studied in fetal rat calvaria cultured on collagen gels. CM from the MCF-7 line and cells derived from one patient each inhibited BDC DNA synthesis, but stimulated osteoclast recruitment. In contrast, CM from the second patient's cells or ZR-75 enhanced DNA synthesis in BDC, but blocked osteoclast maturation. This suggests that human breast carcinomas secrete soluble factors which influence both osteoclasts and osteoblasts. A further unexpected implication is that mammary carcinoma cells may cause local osteosclerosis by directly stimulating osteoblasts, rather than through raised bone turnover in metastases.
Plasma clearance and tissue distribution of labelled insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I), IGF-II and des(1-3)IGF-I in rats.	Incubation of 125I-labelled insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) with rat plasma at 4 degrees C led to the transfer of approximately half the radioactivity to 150 kDa and smaller complexes with IGF-binding proteins. The extent of association was greater with labelled IGF-II and essentially absent with the truncated IGF-I analogue, des(1-3)IGF-I. A greater degree of binding of IGF peptides with binding proteins occurred after i.v. injection of the tracers into rats, but most of the des(1-3)IGF-I radioactivity remained free. Measurement of the total plasma clearances showed the rapid removal of des(1-3)IGF-I compared with IGF-I and IGF-II; the mean clearances were 4.59, 1.20 and 1.34 ml/min per kg respectively. The mean steady-state volume of distribution was larger for des(1-3)IGF-I than for IGF-I and IGF-II (461, 167 and 181 ml/kg respectively), probably because of the differences in plasma protein binding. With all tracers, radioactivity appeared in the kidneys to a greater extent than in other organs. The amount of radioactivity found in the adrenals, brain, skin, stomach, duodenum, ileum plus jejunum and colon was in rank order, des(1-3)IGF-I greater than IGF-I greater than IGF-II. Since this ranking is the opposite of the abilities of the three IGF peptides to form complexes with plasma binding proteins, we propose that the plasma binding proteins inhibit the transfer of the growth factors to their tissue sites of action. Moreover, we suggest that IGF analogues that are cleared rapidly from blood may have greater biological potencies in vivo.
The influence of stratum corneum morphology on water permeability.	The stratum corneum (SC) provides the barrier to water loss for the skin of mammals. A significant body of evidence now exists suggesting that extracellular SC lipids are primarily responsible for this barrier. We have measured the permeability (P) and lag-time (Tlag) for water vapor transport through the SC and found that P is about 1000 times less than the values obtained for most other lipid membranes. In addition, we have measured the water partitioning into the lipid microdomain of the SC using a differential scanning calorimetry technique. These combined data provide an estimate of the diffusion coefficient (D) and diffusion pathlength (delta). The results show that the intrinsic diffusion of water is comparable to values obtained with other lipid membranes. The value obtained for delta, however, is fiftyfold greater than the sample thickness. These results are interpreted in terms of the unique morphology of the SC, where lipids form an extracellular continuum that is highly tortuous. Thus, the exceedingly low permeability of the SC may be due, in large part, to its unique morphology.
Incorporation of tritiated water into sterol in copper-deficient rats.	The effect of copper deficiency on absolute rates of cholesterol synthesis was investigated in the rat. Male weanling rats were fed semi-purified diets containing adequate (7.13 ppm) or deficient (0.621 ppm) levels of copper for 6 weeks. Copper-adequate and -deficient animals (n = 6/group) were injected intraperitoneally with 50 mCi 3H-labelled water and killed 1 h post-injection. Copper-deficient animals had elevated heart weights and reduced body and spleen weights. Plasma cholesterol levels were significantly elevated and hematocrits were reduced. Absolute rates of carcass cholesterol synthesis per organ were 1.9-fold higher in copper-deficient rats (P less than 0.025). Previous studies have indicated that hepatic 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase (E.C.1.1.1.34) activity is increased by copper deficiency; however, de novo synthesis of cholesterol from 3H-labelled water was not significantly elevated in the liver. The present data indicate that newly synthesized cholesterol exported to the plasma was increased 2.1-fold (P less than 0.01) in copper-deficient rats. Since it has been demonstrated that hepatic export of cholesterol is increased with copper deficiency and that the major tissue for export of newly synthesized cholesterol is the liver, we hypothesize that the origin of radiolabeled cholesterol in the plasma was the liver. These data support the hypothesis that elevated levels of hepatic HMG-CoA reductase seen with copper deficiency are associated with an increased rate of whole body and hepatic cholesterol synthesis.
Topical dissolved oxygen penetrates skin: model and method.	It has been commonly perceived that skin receives its oxygen supply from the internal circulation. However, recent investigations have shown that a significant amount of oxygen may enter skin from the external overlying surface. A method has been developed for measuring the transcutaneous penetration of human skin by oxygen as described herein. This method was used to determine both the depth and magnitude of penetration of skin by topically applied oxygen.
Sustained exogenous expression of therapeutic levels of IFN-gamma ameliorates atopic dermatitis in NC/Nga mice via Th1 polarization.	The short in vivo half-life of IFN-gamma can prevent the cytokine from inducing immunological changes that are favorable for the treatment of Th2-dominant diseases, such as atopic dermatitis. To examine whether a sustained supply of IFN-gamma is effective in regulating the balance of Th lymphocyte subpopulations, plasmid vector encoding mouse IFN-gamma, pCpG-Mugamma, or pCMV-Mugamma was injected into the tail vein of NC/Nga mice, a model for human atopic dermatitis. A single hydrodynamic injection of a CpG motif reduced pCpG-Mugamma at a dose of 0.14 microg/mouse resulted in a sustained concentration of IFN-gamma in the serum, and the concentration was maintained at >300 pg/ml over 80 d. The pCpG-Mugamma-mediated IFN-gamma gene transfer was associated with an increase in the serum concentration of IL-12, reduced production of IgE, and inhibition of mRNA expression of IL-4, -5, -10, -13, and -17 and thymus and activation-regulated chemokine in the spleen. These immunological changes were not clearly observed in mice receiving two injections of 20 microg pCMV-Mugamma, a CpG-replete plasmid DNA, because of the transient nature of the expression from the vector. The mice receiving pCpG-Mugamma showed a significant reduction in the severity of skin lesions and in the intensity of their scratching behavior. Furthermore, high transepidermal water loss, epidermal thickening, and infiltration of lymphocytes and eosinophils, all of which were obvious in the untreated mice, were significantly inhibited. These results indicate that an extraordinary sustained IFN-gamma expression induces favorable immunological changes, leading to a Th1-dominant state in the atopic dermatitis model.
Mononuclear phagocyte system depletion blocks interstitial tonicity-responsive enhancer binding protein/vascular endothelial growth factor C expression and induces salt-sensitive hypertension in rats.	We showed recently that mononuclear phagocyte system (MPS) cells provide a buffering mechanism for salt-sensitive hypertension by driving interstitial lymphangiogenesis, modulating interstitial Na(+) clearance, and increasing endothelial NO synthase protein expression in response to very high dietary salt via a tonicity-responsive enhancer binding protein/vascular endothelial growth factor C regulatory mechanism. We now tested whether isotonic saline and deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt treatment leads to a similar regulatory response in Sprague-Dawley rats. Male rats were fed a low-salt diet and received tap water (low-salt diet LSD), 1.0% saline (high-salt diet HSD), or DOCA+1.0% saline (DOCA-HSD). To test the regulatory role of interstitial MPS cells, we further depleted MPS cells with clodronate liposomes. HSD and DOCA-HSD led to Na(+) accumulation in the skin, MPS-driven tonicity-responsive enhancer binding protein/vascular endothelial growth factor C-mediated hyperplasia of interstitial lymph capillaries, and increased endothelial NO synthase protein expression in skin interstitium. Clodronate liposome MPS cell depletion blocked MPS infiltration in the skin interstitium, resulting in unchanged tonicity-responsive enhance binding protein/vascular endothelial growth factor C levels and absent hyperplasia of the lymph capillary network. Moreover, no increased skin endothelial NO synthase protein expression occurred in either clodronate liposome-treated HSD or DOCA-salt rats. Thus, absence of the MPS-cell regulatory response converted a salt-resistant blood-pressure state to a salt-sensitive state in HSD rats. Furthermore, salt-sensitive hypertension in DOCA-salt rats was aggravated. We conclude that MPS cells act as onsite controllers of interstitial volume and blood pressure homeostasis, providing a local regulatory salt-sensitive tonicity-responsive enhancer binding protein/vascular endothelial growth factor C-mediated mechanism in the skin to maintain normal blood pressure in states of interstitial Na(+) and Cl(-) accumulation. Failure of this physiological extrarenal regulatory mechanism leads to a salt-sensitive blood pressure response.
Biochemical insights into the role of matrix metalloproteinases in regeneration: challenges and recent developments.	Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are a group of proteases that belong to the metazincin family. These proteins consist of similar structures featuring a signaling peptide, a propeptide domain, a catalytic domain where the notable zinc ion binding site is found and a hinge region that binds to the C-terminal hemoplexin domain. MMPs can be produced by numerous cell types through secretion or localization to the cell membrane. While certain chemical compounds have been known to generally inhibit MMPs, naturally occurring proteins known as tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMPs) effectively interact with MMPs to modify their biological roles. MMPs are very important enzymes that actively participate in remodeling the extracellular matrix by degrading certain constituents, along with promoting cell proliferation, migration, differentiation, apoptosis and angiogenesis. In normal adult tissue, they are almost undetectable; however, when perturbed through injury, disease or pregnancy, they have elevated expression. The goal of this review is to identify new experimental findings that have provided further insight into the role of MMPs in skeletal muscle, nerve and dermal tissue, as well as in the liver, heart and kidneys. Increased expression of MMPs can improve the regeneration potential of wounds; however, an imbalance between MMP and TIMP expression can prove to be destructive for afflicted tissues.
Perioral skin biopsy to study skeletal muscle protein expression.	Clinical trials for muscular dystrophy molecular treatment require multiple sampling of skeletal muscle to monitor protein rescue. This practice is invasive and could raise ethical problems. A less invasive tool to obtain sequential muscle sampling is necessary. Using indirect immunofluorescence, we evaluated muscle protein expression in myofiber bundles included in 2-2.5-mm punch skin biopsies from the perioral region from 6 healthy subjects and 6 patients with genetically defined forms of muscular dystrophy. Large intradermal bundles of orbicularis oris muscle were constantly present in skin biopsies. They showed a typical muscular antigenic pattern in controls and the expected protein defect in muscular dystrophy patients. These results demonstrate the feasibility of muscular protein expression analysis using skin biopsy. We propose this minimally invasive technique to follow-up the response to genetic or conventional therapies in muscular dystrophies and to confirm the diagnosis in some special clinical conditions.
Response of intractable skin ulcers in recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa patients to an allogeneic cultured dermal substitute.	Recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa (RDEB) is an inherited skin disorder caused by mutations in the COL7A1 gene, which encodes collagen VII (COL7). Skin ulcers in RDEB patients are sometimes slow to heal. We describe here the therapeutic response of intractable skin ulcers in two patients with generalized RDEB to treatment with an allogeneic cultured dermal substitute (CDS). Skin ulcers in both patients epithelialized by 3-4 weeks after this treatment. Immunohistochemical studies demonstrated that the COL7 expression level remained reduced with respect to the control skin and that it did not differ significantly between graft-treated and untreated areas. Electron microscopy showed aberrant anchoring fibrils beneath the lamina densa of both specimens. In conclusion, CDS is a promising modality for treatment of intractable skin ulcers in patients with RDEB, even though it does not appear to increase COL7 expression.
Sun-protection behaviors among African Americans.	Data suggest that the prevalence of sun-protection behaviors is low (44%) among African Americans; the samples in such studies, however, tended to be small or nonrepresentative.
Atopic dermatitis-like disease and associated lethal myeloproliferative disorder arise from loss of Notch signaling in the murine skin.	The Notch pathway is essential for proper epidermal differentiation during embryonic skin development. Moreover, skin specific loss of Notch signaling in the embryo results in skin barrier defects accompanied by a B-lymphoproliferative disease. However, much less is known about the consequences of loss of Notch signaling after birth.
Inactivation of peroxiredoxin I by phosphorylation allows localized H(2)O(2) accumulation for cell signaling.	Despite its toxicity, H(2)O(2) is produced as a signaling molecule that oxidizes critical cysteine residues of effectors such as protein tyrosine phosphatases in response to activation of cell surface receptors. It has remained unclear, however, how H(2)O(2) concentrations above the threshold required to modify effectors are achieved in the presence of the abundant detoxification enzymes peroxiredoxin (Prx) I and II. We now show that PrxI associated with membranes is transiently phosphorylated on tyrosine-194 and thereby inactivated both in cells stimulated via growth factor or immune receptors in vitro and in those at the margin of healing cutaneous wounds in mice. The localized inactivation of PrxI allows for the transient accumulation of H(2)O(2) around membranes, where signaling components are concentrated, while preventing the toxic accumulation of H(2)O(2) elsewhere. In contrast, PrxII was inactivated not by phosphorylation but rather by hyperoxidation of its catalytic cysteine during sustained oxidative stress.
The steady-state levels of type I collagen mRNA are reduced in senescent fibroblasts.	The decreased collagen content in aging skin could be a consequence of decreased synthesis or increased degradation. The possibility that decreased synthesis of collagen results from decreased synthesis of mRNAs for Type I collagen, the major collagen in skin, was investigated by assessing the steady-state levels of alpha 1(I) and alpha 2(I) collagen mRNAs in actively proliferating and senescent WI-38 fibroblasts. The levels of both alpha 1(I) mRNA and alpha 2(I) mRNA were significantly lower in senescent fibroblasts, suggesting that one factor contributing to the decreased collagen content of aging skin may be decreased synthesis of these collagen mRNAs by senescent fibroblasts. Both mRNAs were reduced to the same extent, suggesting that coordinate regulation of the two Type I collagen genes is maintained in senescent fibroblasts.
Retroconversion and delta 4 desaturation of docosatetraenoate (22:4(n-6)) and docosapentaenoate (22:5(n-3)) by human cells in culture.	This study has investigated the metabolic modification of [3-14C]docosatetraenoate (22:4(n-6)) and [3-14C]docosapentaenoate (22:5(n-3)) by human cells in culture. Fetal skin fibroblasts converted as much as 20% of the incorporated [14C]22:4(n-6) to [14C]20:4(n-6) within 6 h and 41% within 48 h. Retroconversion of incorporated [14C]22:5(n-3) was less than 13% at all time points. Chain shortening of [14C]22:4(n-6) was also 2-6-fold greater than that of [14C]22:5(n-3) in retinoblastoma and vascular endothelial cells. Fibroblasts, vascular endothelial cells and retinoblastoma cells all elongated substantially more [14C]eicosapentaenoate than [14C]arachidonate to the respective C22 fatty acids. Within 3-4 days, fibroblasts incubated with either [14C]20:5(n-3) or [14C]22:5(n-3) had the same ratio of radiolabeled C22:C20 fatty acids in cellular glycerolipids. By contrast, the cells incubated with [14C]22:4(n-6) or [14C]20:4(n-6) did not reach a common C22/C20 equilibrium by 5 days. Although fibroblasts were found to desaturate [14C]22:5(n-3), a substantial lag time was observed; [14C]22:6(n-3) was 2% at 48 h and 20% at 96 h. By contrast, synthesis of [14C]22:6(n-3) by retinoblastoma cells was 51% within 6 h and greater than 90% at 96 h. Desaturation of [14C]22:4(n-6) was observed in retinoblastoma cells, but not in fibroblasts. These results thus suggest that the ratio of C22C20 polyunsaturated fatty acids in cells is regulated by the relative rates of retroconversion and chain elongation, with the net effect of the two processes favoring C20 for n-6 and C22 for the n-3 fatty acids. Furthermore, although fibroblasts desaturate [14C]22:5(n-3), the process appears to be qualitatively different from that of retinoblastoma cells.
A type I collagen with substitution of a cysteine for glycine-748 in the alpha 1(I) chain copolymerizes with normal type I collagen and can generate fractallike structures.	Type I procollagen was purified from cultured fibroblasts of a proband with a lethal variant of osteogenesis imperfecta. The protein was a mixture of normal procollagen and mutated procollagens containing a substitution of cysteine for glycine in either one pro alpha 1(I) chain or both pro alpha 1(I) chains, some or all of which were disulfide-linked through the cysteine at position alpha 1-748. The procollagen was then examined in a system for generating collagen fibrils de novo by cleavage of the pCcollagen to collagen with procollagen C-proteinase [Kadler et al. (1987) J. Biol. Chem. 262, 15696-15701]. The mutated collagens and normal collagens were found to form copolymers under a variety of experimental conditions. With two preparations of the protein that had a high content of alpha 1(I) chains disulfide-linked through the cysteine alpha 1-748, all the large structures formed had a distinctive, highly branched morphology that met one of the formal criteria for a fractal. Preparations with a lower content of disulfide-linked alpha 1(I) chains formed fibrils that were 4 times the diameter of control fibrils. The formation of copolymers was also demonstrated by the observation that the presence of mutated collagens decreased the rate of incorporation of normal collagen into fibrils. In addition, the solution-phase concentration at equilibrium of mixtures of mutated and normal collagens was 5-10-fold greater than that of normal collagen.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Use of type I interferon-inducible mRNAs as pharmacodynamic markers and potential diagnostic markers in trials with sifalimumab, an anti-IFN antibody, in systemic lupus erythematosus.	Type I interferons are implicated in the pathogenesis of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Type I interferon-inducible mRNAs are widely and concordantly overexpressed in the periphery and involved tissues of a subset of SLE patients, and provide utility as pharmacodynamic biomarkers to aid dose selection, as well as potential indicators of patients who might respond favorably to anti-IFN therapy in SLE. We implemented a three-tiered approach to identify a panel of type I interferon-inducible mRNAs to be used as potential pharmacodynamic biomarkers to aid dose selection in clinical trials of sifalimumab, an anti-IFN monoclonal antibody under development for the treatment of SLE. In a single-dose escalation phase 1 trial, we observed a sifalimumab-specific and dose-dependent inhibition of the overexpression of type I interferon-inducible mRNAs in the blood of treated subjects. Inhibition of expression of type I interferon-inducible mRNAs and proteins was also observed in skin lesions of SLE subjects from the same trial. Inhibiting IFN resulted in a profound downstream effect in these SLE subjects that included suppression of mRNAs of B-cell activating factor belonging to the TNF family and the signaling pathways of TNF, IL-10, IL-1, and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor in both the periphery and skin lesions. A scoring method based on the expression of type I interferon-inducible mRNAs partitioned SLE patients into two distinct subpopulations, which suggests the possibility of using these type I interferon-inducible genes as predictive biomarkers to identify SLE patients who might respond more favorably to anti-type I interferon therapy.
Isolation and characterization of 3-[(carboxymethyl)thio]-3-(1H-imidazol-4-yl)propanoic acid from human urine and preparation of its proposed precursor, S-[2-carboxy-1-(1H-imidazol-4-yl)ethyl]cysteine.	3-[(Carboxymethyl)thio]-3-(1H-imidazol-4-yl)propanoic acid (I) was isolated from healthy human urine by using ion-exchange column chromatography, and characterized by physicochemical analyses involving i.r., m.s. and n.m.r. spectrometries as well as chemical synthesis. The urinary content was 0.04-0.07 mumol/l. Compound (I) was synthesized by the addition of mercaptoacetic acid to urocanic acid. In order to establish the origin of the compound. S-[2-carboxy-1-(1H-imidazol-4-yl)ethyl]cysteine (II) and S-[2-carboxy-1-(1H-imidazol-4-yl)ethyl]glutathione (III) were produced by similar reactions of urocanic acid with cysteine and GSH respectively. The yield of compound (II) was markedly increased by sunlight irradiation of the reaction mixture or by the use of cis-urocanic acid rather than the trans isomer. Incubation of compound (II) with rat liver homogenate in a phosphate buffer, pH 7.40, formed a major and some minor products of enzymic degradation, one of which was identified with compound (I). Exposure of rats to the sunlight for 2 days resulted in increase of the epidermal content of trans-urocanic acid from the normal value of 0.38 to 1.70 micrograms/mg wet wt. of skin, accompanied by formation de novo of the epidermal cis isomer. After sunlight irradiation, the content of the trans isomer decreased at a constant rate of 0.03 micrograms/mg wet wt. of skin per day, whereas the cis isomer was eliminated more quickly, having a phase of rapid decrease in the early period. From these results we suggest that compound (I) may participate in the metabolism of urocanic acid and natural thiol compounds such as cysteine and GSH.
Possible genetic defects in regulation of glycosaminoglycans in patients with diabetic nephropathy.	The hypothesis of genetic defects in glycosaminoglycan (GAG) regulation among patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) and nephropathy was assessed by studies in tissue cultures of fibroblasts obtained from 7 patients with normal urinary albumin excretion, 11 patients with diabetic nephropathy, and 6 nondiabetic control subjects. The incorporation of [2H] glucosamine and [35S] sulfate into hyaluronic acid (HA), chondroitin sulfate and dermatan sulfate (CS + DS), and heparan sulfate (HS) was measured in cells, matrix, and medium and related to micrograms of tissue protein. Large interindividual variations were seen in all three groups, and the incorporation of [3H] glucosamine into HA, CS + DS, and HS and [35S] sulfate into CS + DS and HS were not significantly different between the three groups. However, the fractional incorporation of [3H]glucosamine into HS was significantly reduced in diabetic patients with nephropathy compared with control subjects. This was the case not only when related to the total amount of GAGs (P = 0.014) but also when related to HA (P = 0.014). No significant difference was seen between control subjects and normoalbuminuric diabetic patients. The degree of N-sulfation of HS was not significantly different between the experimental groups. The results suggest that patients with diabetic nephropathy may suffer from deficiencies of coordinate regulation in the biosynthesis of GAG in fibroblasts, which may lead to a reduced density of HS in the extracellular matrix. If these changes reflect alterations in the biosynthesis of GAG from endothelial, myomedial, and mesangial cells, this observation may be relevant for the pathogenesis of severe diabetic complications.
Heterogeneity in oxygen diffusion around venous ulcers.	The pathogenesis of venous ulceration is thought to involve the formation of fibrin cuffs around dermal capillaries. Consistent with a barrier effect of fibrin, it has been shown that the dermal diffusion of oxygen, as measured by transcutaneous oxygen pressure (TcPO2), is decreased in limbs affected by venous ulcer. However, it is unknown whether oxygen diffusion around the perimeter of venous ulcers is uniformly affected. In this study, we investigated TcPO2 values at four different quadrants around the ulcers of 14 patients, the contralateral leg of five patients with unilateral ulcers, and the leg of six normal individuals. These values were also compared to TcPO2 measurements at the chest. Our results indicate that, whereas TcPO2 values in limbs affected by venous ulcers are much lower than normal, there is a great deal of variability in oxygen diffusion around individual ulcers. These findings may represent a heterogeneity in the disease process affecting the leg.
Elastic vesicles of sumatriptan succinate for transdermal administration: characterization and in vitro permeation studies.	Elastic liposomes, including sumatriptan succinate, were prepared for their transdermal administration. Lipid vesicles containing 1,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (DOPC) or l--phosphatidylcholine dilauroyl (DLPC) phospholipids were characterized for various parameters, including size, particle-size distribution (i.e., polydispersity index), and elasticity. In vitro transdermal experiments for the study of the skin penetration of sumatriptan succinate contained in liposomes were performed by using flow-through diffusion cells. The diameter of sumatriptan liposomes with different lipid compositions varied between 279 and 282nm, and the polydispersity index value for the size distribution of liposomal formulations was <0.5. DLPC vesicles proved to be more elastic and provided a higher sumatriptan transdermal flux than vesicles formulated with DOPC phospolipid.
Study of the pilot production process of long-circulating and pH-sensitive liposomes containing cisplatin.	Long-circulating and pH-sensitive liposomes, containing cisplatin (SpHL-CDDP), have been developed as an alternative aimed at avoiding severe side effects as well as the appearance of resistance, which can limit the use of free cisplatin. However, physical (i.e., aggregation/fusion) and chemical instabilities limit the use of these drug carriers as pharmaceutical products. The preparation of freeze-dried pharmaceuticals has proven to be a successful strategy implemented to improve the stability of these formulations. In addition, the development of an economically feasible, reproducible process of liposome production, on a large scale, has also become necessary. A pilot production process, using three stages (i.e., reverse-phase evaporation, homogenization under high pressure, and ultrafiltration), was used to prepare SpHL-CDDP. The optimization of factors related to the homonogenization under high pressure (i.e., pressure and number of cycles), ultrafiltration (i.e., number of cycles), and storage stability at 4C were assessed by means of particle size, zeta potential, and encapsulation percentage. A 500-bar pressure and 9 cycles were adopted as measures for the production of SpHL-CDDP, which presented a mean diameter of 99.03.9nm and an encapsulation percentage of 12.92.3. The use of trehalose as a cryoprotectant was investigated, regarding its effective ability to control the vesicle diameter and retain encapsulated CDDP after the freeze-drying/rehydration step. After 135 days of storage, freeze-dried or liquid SpHL-CDDP showed no significant change in mean diameter. However, the freeze-dried SpHL-CDDP proved to be more efficient, in terms of CDDP retention, than did the liposomal liquid dispersion.
The metabolic activation of dibenz[a,h]anthracene in mouse skin examined by 32P-postlabelling: minor contribution of the 3,4-diol 1,2-oxides to DNA binding.	Dibenz[a,h]anthracene (DB[a,h]A) and the related 3,4-diol and anti- and syn-3,4-diol 1,2-oxides were applied to the shaved dorsal skin of groups of four C57Bl/CB1 mice. Twenty-four hours later the mice were killed, DNA isolated from the treated skin, hydrolysed and examined for the presence of aromatic adducts using the nuclease P1 modification of the 32P-postlabelling technique. Autoradiography of the maps obtained by chromatography on polyethyleneimine-cellulose plates showed that six DNA adduct spots that were derived from DB[a,h]A were also present in the DNA of skin treated with the DBA 3,4-diol and that, whilst four of these adduct spots were also seen in maps prepared from the DNA of skin treated with the anti-3,4-diol-1,2-oxide, they were not present in DNA from skin to which the syn-isomer had been applied. The identity of these adduct spots was confirmed by their coincidence when mixtures of different DNA hydrolysates were chromatographed together. Quantitatively, the highest levels of mouse skin modification were obtained with the diol-epoxides and the lowest with DB[a,h]A. The results suggest that most of the DNA adducts formed in DB[a,h]A-treated mouse skin arise through metabolism of the hydrocarbon to the related 3,4-diol and that some may be formed following the conversion of this diol to the bay-region anti-3,4-diol-1,2-oxide.
Biosynthesis of dermatan sulphate proteoglycans. The effect of beta-D-xyloside addition on the polymer-modification process in fibroblast cultures.	Incubation of cultured fibroblasts with p-nitrophenyl beta-D-xyloside resulted in a concentration-dependent increase in galactosaminoglycan synthesis. At low concentration of added xyloside large and small radiolabelled proteoglycans and xyloside-bound polysaccharides were recovered from the medium, whereas at high concentrations only xyloside-bound polysaccharides were found. In the cell layer proteoglycans and xyloside-bound polysaccharides were found at all concentrations tested. Only galactosaminoglycan chains were polymerized on the xyloside primer. At low concentrations of added xyloside the structure of the galactosaminoglycans formed on the xyloside was similar to that of the small dermatan sulphate proteoglycan, i.e. mainly composed of L-iduronic acid-containing 4-sulphated disaccharides. With increasing concentration of added xyloside the co-polymeric structure of the small dermatan sulphate proteoglycan and the xyloside-bound polysaccharide was changed to contain a larger proportion of D-glucuronosyl residues with only slight changes in the sulphation pattern. No structural change in the polysaccharide chains of the large glucuronic acid-rich proteoglycans occurred. At 1 mM-xyloside, where no proteoglycans were formed, the polysaccharide was shorter and composed mainly of D-glucuronosyl-containing disaccharides with a ratio of 4-sulphate to 6-sulphate substituents of 1:2. This is similar to the structure of the large glucuronic acid-rich proteoglycan synthesized by these cells. Thus the main difference induced by the xyloside treatment was changed polymer modification at high xyloside concentrations. The specific activities of the polymer-modifying enzymes, uronosyl C-5-epimerase and 4-sulphotransferase, were therefore measured and found to be decreased by 30-50% in fibroblasts treated with high xyloside concentrations. It is suggested that the protein core is of importance for regulating the activity of the polymer-modifying enzymes.
In vitro transport of sodium diclofenac across rat abdominal skin: effect of selection of oleaginous component and the addition of alcohols to the vehicle.	The in vitro percutaneous transport of sodium diclofenac from various oil vehicles was examined using rat abdominal skin as a model skin membrane. The overall transport of diclofenac through the skin from the oleaginous vehicles was very poor because of a poor solubility of sodium diclofenac in nonpolar oils. To increase the solubility and the permeability of sodium diclofenac, ethanol and n-octanol were added to each oil (designated as the formulated vehicles). The addition of ethanol and n-octanol to the nonpolar vehicles resulted in an extreme increase in drug solubility in each vehicle, with a remarkable increase in the permeation of diclofenac. The effects of oil components in the formulated vehicle on the permeation of diclofenac across the skin were in the following order: squalane greater than or equal to squalene greater than liquid paraffin greater than middle chain triglyceride greater than olive oil greater than castor oil. In order to clarify the reason for the differences in permeation of diclofenac from these formulated vehicles, the release of diclofenac and n-octanol from these vehicles in vitro was studied. The release rates of n-octanol from the formulated vehicles were in the following order: liquid paraffin greater than squalene greater than or equal to squalane greater than middle chain triglyceride greater than or equal to olive oil greater than castor oil. On the other hand, a linear correlation was observed between the initial release rate of diclofenac from the formulated vehicle and the in vitro permeation of diclofenac through the vehicle to the skin.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Induction of low density lipoprotein receptor synthesis by high density lipoprotein in cultures of human skin fibroblasts.	Further studies have been made of the effects of high density lipoprotein (HDL) on the surface binding, internalization and degradation of 125I-labeled low density lipoprotein (125I-labeled LDL) by cultured normal human fibroblasts. In agreement with earlier studies, during short incubations HDL inhibited the surface binding of 125I-labeled LDL. In contrast, following prolonged incubations 125I-labeled LDL binding was consistently greater in the presence of HDL. The increment in 125I-labeled LDL binding induced by HDL was: (a) associated with a decrease in cell cholesterol content; (b) inhibited by the addition of cholesterol or cycloheximide to the incubation medium; and (c) accompanied by similar increments in 125I-labeled LDL internalization and degradation. It is concluded that HDL induces the synthesis of high affinity LDL receptors in human fibroblasts by promoting the efflux of cholesterol from the cells.
Effects of the antidiuretic hormone, arginine vasotocin, theophylline, filipin and A23187 on cyclic AMP in isolated frog skin epithelium (Rana temporaria).	A method for measuring cAMP in frog skin epithelium was developed. The epithelia were isolated after collagenase-treatment. cAMP was extracted by boiling water and the extract was purified on dry Al2O3. The change with time of the cAMP level after addition of arginine vasotocin (AVT) was studied. The hormone caused a rapid increase in cAMP level with a maximum after 3-5 min, whereafter the cAMP level declined. Incubation with AVT made the epithelia refractory to a second dose of AVT, which indicates that the decline in cAMP level was caused by a feedback mechanism and not by inactivation of the hormone. cAMP appeared evenly distributed in all cell-layers of the epithelia both before and after stimulation with AVT. Theophylline caused a rapid increase in the cAMP level, which remained elevated for at least 45 min. Addition of the ionophore A23187 or of filipin had no effect on the cAMP level. However, in the presence of theophylline, A23187 enhanced the cAMP level, whereas filipin had no effect. Therefore the involvement of cAMP in the action of A23187 has to be considered.
Immunodepletive anti-alpha/beta-TCR antibody in transplantation of composite tissue allografts: Cleveland Clinic research experience.	The immunologic characteristics of composite tissue allografts (CTA), which contain skin, lymphoid elements and bone with bone marrow, raise new challenges for transplant immunologists. Owing to the heterogeneity of transplanted tissues in limb or face transplant models, researchers are focusing on the new tolerance-inducing strategies facilitating CTA acceptance. A number of immunosuppressive protocols have been designed to develop tolerance in experimental models; however, only a few protocols have been introduced to clinical transplantation. In this review, based on own experiences, we discuss the major strategies for tolerance induction in limb and face allograft models in experimental studies. This review is focused on tolerance induction strategies by establishment of donor-specific chimerism using different immunomodulatory protocols, including nonselective T-cell depletion with polyclonal antibody antilymphocyte serum and selective inhibition of alphabeta-T-cell receptors on the alloreactive T cells.
Dermal fibroblast behaviour on micropatterned substrates with different pattern geometries.	A major objective of scaffold fabrication for tissue-engineering applications in wound healing is to understand the relationship between scaffold topography and cell behaviour. Recently, researchers have focused on arrays of cell adhesion protein styled in linear-grid micropatterns; however, these linear-grid patterns hardly reflect the topographical features of a natural extracellular matrix (ECM). In order to clarify the relationship between substrate adhesion points and cell behaviour, changes of dermal fibroblasts cultured on triangular microdot arrays were investigated. Micropatterns were micro-printed by silicone substrate stamps with collagen, while regions outside of the microdots were functionalized to block cellular adhesion. Cell morphology, expression of -SMA, cell viability and hydroxyproline levels were examined for dermal fibroblasts cultured on the microdot substrates and on non-patterned control substrates. On patterned substrates, the expression of -SMA significantly decreased, cell vitality increased and hydroxyproline content decreased with increasing vertex angles of the triangular array. Significantly more hydroxyproline was observed in all experimental groups in comparison to the control group. The results indicate that small vertex angles of the triangular array were detrimental to cell survival, likely due to constraint of the cell to a small adhesion area. We hypothesize that cells actively adapt to this situation by attempting to remodel their microenvironments with secretion of hydroxyproline. This illustrates the existence of feedback between cells and their microenvironments, such that when surroundings are unfavourably altered, the cells attempt to reconstruct the environment with secretion of ECM.
New insights into induction of early-stage neovascularization in an improved tissue-engineered model of psoriasis.	We have previously shown that putrescine induces a psoriatic phenotype in tissue-engineered skin. The initial aim of this study was to further develop this in vitro model by introducing endothelial cells to mimic the increased vascularization found in psoriasis. Human keratinocytes and fibroblasts, which did not express CD34 or CD31 in 2D culture, were added to de-epidermised acellular human dermis and cultured for 4 weeks. For induction of a psoriatic phenotype, putrescine was added during this period. We report that after 4 weeks of culture, and particularly when exposed to putrescine, this model showed expression of vertically organised clusters of CD31 positive cells in the dermis in the absence of any exogenous endothelial cells. Further investigation in 2D cell cultures showed an indirect effect of putrescine on normal keratinocytes causing them to produce soluble factors that increased expression of CD133, CD34 and CD31 in cultured human dermal fibroblasts, previously negative for these antigens. This study reports a new and improved model of psoriasis for in vitro studies and offers a new insight into early stage neovascularization, which is of relevance not only to psoriasis, but to tissue engineering and wound healing in general.
The role of stem cell factor and c-KIT in keloid pathogenesis: do tyrosine kinase inhibitors have a potential therapeutic role?	Keloids are fibroproliferative disorders characterized by increased deposition of extracellular matrix components. Stem cell factor (SCF) and its receptor c-KIT are expressed in a wide variety of cells and have also been demonstrated to be important modulators of the wound healing process.
Layer-by-layer assembly of DNA- and protein-containing films on microneedles for drug delivery to the skin.	Microneedle patches contain micrometer-scale needles coated with bioactive agents for minimally invasive drug delivery to the skin. In this study, we introduce layer-by-layer approaches to the fabrication of ultrathin DNA- and protein-containing polyelectrolyte films (or "polyelectrolyte multilayers", PEMs) on the surfaces of stainless steel microneedles. DNA-containing PEMs were fabricated on microneedles by the alternating deposition of plasmid DNA and a hydrolytically degradable poly(-amino ester). Protein-containing PEMs were fabricated using sodium poly(styrene sulfonate) (SPS) and bovine pancreatic ribonuclease A (RNase A) conjugated to a synthetic protein transduction domain. Layer-by-layer assembly resulted in ultrathin, uniform, and defect-free coatings on the surfaces of the microneedles, as characterized by fluorescence microscopy. These films eroded and thereby released DNA or protein when incubated in saline or when inserted into porcine cadaver skin and deposited DNA or protein along the edges of microneedle tracks to depths of 500 to 600 m. We conclude that PEM-coated microneedles offer a novel and useful approach to the transdermal delivery of DNA- and protein-based therapeutics and could also prove useful in other applications. 
Conditional ablation of integrin alpha-6 in mouse epidermis leads to skin fragility and inflammation.	Hemidesmosomes (HDs) are essential anchorage junctions which mediate the firm attachment of epithelia to the underlying basement membranes, of which one main component is the integrin 64. These specific junctions are also able to trigger signalling pathways, via the recruitment and interactions of signalling molecules with HD components such as the cytoplasmic tail of the 4 integrin or the plakin plectin. HDs must also assemble and disassemble depending on the tissue context for example during tissue remodelling. Alterations of HD components or their loss result in skin blistering disorders known as epidermolysis bullosa. Since mice lacking integrin 6 die at birth with severe skin blistering, we have produced a mouse line in which epidermal deletion of integrin 6 can be controlled by tamoxifen injection. We observed that the deletion was mosaic, but that hairless skin such as ears, tails and paws were affected and showed chronic inflammation associated with hyperproliferation, and expression of laminin-111. Interestingly, two cytokines, amphiregulin and epiregulin, previously found increased in integrin 6 deficient cultured keratinocytes, were also increased here in the affected skin. In detached areas, we validate clearly that the absence of integrin 6 leads to a delocalisation of plectin, and the complete disappearance of HD structures.
Effects of intense pulsed light and ultraviolet A on metalloproteinases and extracellular matrix expression in human skin.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of intense pulsed light (IPL) and ultraviolet A (UVA) irradiation on the expression of matrix metalloproteases (MMPs), tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1 (TIMP-1), and extracellular matrix (ECM) in human skin, and to confirm the relative mechanism.
dsRNA activation of endothelin-1 and markers of vascular activation in endothelial cells and fibroblasts.	In patients with systemic sclerosis (SSc), the relationship between innate immune activation, represented by increased expression of interferon (IFN)-regulated genes, and vascular injury/activation, manifest by increased endothelin-1 (ET-1), endothelin converting enzyme-1 (ECE1) and intercellular adhesion molecule-1, is uncertain.
Recalculation of the calcium requirement of adult men.	There is uncertainty about the calcium requirement with particular respect to age and sex differences and the calculation of skin calcium losses.
Transdermal estradiol and testosterone transfer in man: existence, models, and strategies for prevention.	Transdermal hormone application allows delivery of a clinically relevant hormone dose often with fewer systemic side effects than oral formulations. However, transdermal hormone transfer from a dosed individual to nave interpersonal contact occurs and may cause significant hormone imbalance and adverse effects.
Characterization of skin friction coefficient, and relationship to stratum corneum hydration in a normal Chinese population.	Studies have demonstrated that some cutaneous biophysical properties vary with age, gender and body sites. However, the characteristics of the skin friction coefficient in different genders and age groups have not yet been well established. In the present study, we assess the skin friction coefficient in a larger Chinese population.
Safety of botanical ingredients in personal care products/cosmetics.	The key issue of the safety assessment of botanical ingredients in personal care products (PCP) is the phytochemical characterisation of the plant source, data on contamination, adulteration and hazardous residues. The comparative approach used in the safety assessment of GM-plants may be applied to novel botanical PCP ingredients. Comparator(s) are the parent plant or varieties of the same species. Chemical grouping includes definition of chemical groups suitable for a read-across approach; it allows the estimation of toxicological endpoints on the basis of data from related substances (congeneric groups) with physical/chemical properties producing similar toxicities. The Threshold of Toxicological Concern (TTC) and Dermal Sensitisation Threshold (DST) are tools for the assessment of trace substances or minor ingredients. The evaluation of skin penetration of substances present in human food is unnecessary, whereas mixtures may be assessed on the basis of physical/chemical properties of individual substances. Adverse dermal effects of botanicals include irritation, sensitisation, phototoxicity and immediate-type allergy. The experience from dietary supplements or herbal medicines showed that being natural is not equivalent to being safe. Pragmatic approaches for quality and safety standards of botanical ingredients are needed; consumer safety should be the first objective of conventional and botanical PCP ingredients.
The influence of positive or negative charges in the passive and iontophoretic skin penetration of porphyrins used in photodynamic therapy.	Meso-tetra-(N-methylpiridinium-4-yl)-porphyrin (TMPyP) and meso-tetra-(4-sulfonatophenyl)-porphyrin (TPPS(4)) are photosensitizing drugs (PS) used in photodynamic therapy (PDT). Based on the fact that these compounds present similar chemical structures but opposite charges at pH levels near physiological conditions, this work aims to evaluate the in vitro and in vivo influence of these electrical charges on the iontophoretic delivery of TMPyP and TPPS(4), attempting to achieve maximum accumulation of PS in skin tissue. The iontophoretic transport of these drugs from a hydrophilic gel was investigated in vitro using porcine ear skin and vertical, flow-through diffusion cells. In vivo experiments using rats were also carried out, and the penetration of the PSs was analyzed by fluorescence microscopy to visualize the manner of how these compounds were distributed in the skin after a short period of iontophoresis application. In vitro, both passive and iontophoretic delivery of the positively charged TMPyP were much greater (20-fold and 67-fold, respectively) than those of the negatively charged TPPS(4). TPPS(4) iontophoresis in vivo increased the fluorescence of the skin only in the very superficial layers. On the other hand, iontophoresis of the positively charged drug expressively increased the rat epidermis and dermis fluorescence, indicating high amounts of this drug throughout the skin layers. Moreover, TMPyP was homogeneously distributed around and into the nuclei of the skin cells, suggesting its potential use in topical PDT.
Topical delivery and photodynamic evaluation of a multivesicular liposomal Rose Bengal.	We investigated the pharmaceutical and physicochemical properties of different multivesicular liposome (MVL) formulations for the delivery of Rose Bengal (RB) into skin layers for topical photodynamic therapy. The drug content, uniformity, spreadability and release kinetics of the optimum hydrogel formulation were studied. Skin penetration of the prepared gels was studied in albino mice using fluorescence microscopy and the photodynamic properties were evaluated. The loading efficiency of MVL ranged from 56% to 79%. In vitro RB release from MVL followed Higuchi's diffusion mechanism and the amount of RB released after 2 h from the optimum MVL (comprising D,L-dipalmitoylphosphatidyl choline, cholesterol and tripalmitin at a molar ratio of 1:0.7:0.1, respectively) was 2.5-fold higher than from the other MVL formulations. The type and concentration of phospholipids did not significantly (p > 0.05) affect vesicle size but significantly (p < 0.05) increased the encapsulation capacity and thermal properties. RB in hydrogel was spreadable and uniformly distributed. Fluorescence microscopy 30 min after topical application to the skin of mice showed that RB loaded into MVL was significantly (p < 0.05) more distributed into the dermal layers than free RB which accumulated in the epidermis. This finding was confirmed by the presence of superficial necrotic cells in histological sections of skin treated with free RB and the presence of RB in the deep dermal layers of sections of skin treated with the MVL-RB formulation and irradiated for 10 min with light of wavelength 550 nm from a light emitting diode at 80 mW. MVL hydrogel is a promising topical delivery system which allows successful delivery of RB into skin layers for different photodynamic therapies in dermatology.
Increased expression of guanylate binding protein-1 in lesional skin of patients with cutaneous lupus erythematosus.	The large GTPase human guanylate binding protein-1 (GBP-1) is a key mediator of angiostatic effects of inflammation and is induced by interferon (IFN)- and IFN- in endothelial cells (ECs). The aim of this study was to investigate whether GBP-1 is a marker of skin lesions in patients with cutaneous lupus erythematosus (CLE). Western blotting revealed that GBP-1 was in vitro induced by IFN- and - in primary keratinocytes obtained from healthy controls. Moreover, we found that this protein was expressed by keratinocytes and ECs in primary and ultraviolet (UV)-induced skin lesions from patients with various subtypes of CLE, when compared to non-lesional skin. No GBP-1 expression was noted in skin biopsy specimens 24 or 72 h after UV irradiation prior to lesion formation in patients with CLE or in healthy control specimens with or without UV irradiation. Initial findings suggest that GBP-1 is not expressed in other skin diseases with different inflammatory aetiology, such as atopic dermatitis. We conclude that GBP-1 expression is closely associated with skin lesions in patients with CLE, suggesting a contribution of GBP-1 in the pathogenesis of this disease.
Anion exchanger 1b, but not sodium-bicarbonate cotransporter 1b, plays a role in transport functions of zebrafish H+-ATPase-rich cells.	Similar to mammalian proximal tubular cells, H(+)-ATPase rich (HR) cells in zebrafish skin and gills are also responsible for Na(+) uptake and acid secretion functions. However, the basolateral transport pathways in HR cells are still unclear. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis if there are specific slc4 members involved in basolateral ion transport pathways in HR cells. Fourteen isoforms were identified in the zebrafish(z) slc4 family, and the full-length cDNAs of two novel isoforms, zslc4a1b (anion exchanger, zAE1b) and zslc4a4b (Na(+)/HCO(3)(-) cotransporter, zNBCe1b), were sequenced. mRNA signals of zslc4a1b and zslc4a4b were mainly detected in certain groups of ionocytes in zebrafish skin/gills. Further double immunocytochemistry or in situ hybridization demonstrated that zAE1b, but not zNBCe1b, was localized to basolateral membranes of HR cells. Acclimation to low-Na(+) or acidic environments stimulated the mRNA expression of zslc4a1b in zebrafish gills, and loss-of-function of zslc4a1b with specific morpholinos caused significant decreases in both the whole body Na(+) content and the skin H(+) activity in the morphants. On the basis of these results, it was concluded that zAE1b, but not zNBCe1b, is involved in the basolateral transport pathways in Na(+) uptake/acid secretion mechanisms in zebrafish HR cells.
Phase I assessment of new mechanism-based pharmacodynamic biomarkers for MLN8054, a small-molecule inhibitor of Aurora A kinase.	The mitotic kinase Aurora A is an important therapeutic target for cancer therapy. This study evaluated new mechanism-based pharmacodynamic biomarkers in cancer patients in two phase I studies of MLN8054, a small-molecule inhibitor of Aurora A kinase. Patients with advanced solid tumors received MLN8054 orally for 7 consecutive days in escalating dose cohorts, with skin and tumor biopsies obtained before and after dosing. Skin biopsies were evaluated for increased mitotic cells within the basal epithelium. Tumor biopsies were assessed for accumulation of mitotic cells within proliferative tumor regions. Several patients in the highest dose cohorts showed marked increases in the skin mitotic index after dosing. Although some tumors exhibited increases in mitotic cells after dosing, others displayed decreases, a variable outcome consistent with dual mechanisms of mitotic arrest and mitotic slippage induced by antimitotics in tumors. To provide a clearer picture, mitotic cell chromosome alignment and spindle bipolarity, new biomarkers of Aurora A inhibition that act independently of mitotic arrest or slippage, were assessed in the tumor biopsies. Several patients, primarily in the highest dose cohorts, had marked decreases in the percentage of mitotic cells with aligned chromosomes and bipolar spindles after dosing. Evidence existed for an exposure-effect relationship for mitotic cells with defects in chromosome alignment and spindle bipolarity that indicated a biologically active dose range. Outcomes of pharmacodynamic assays from skin and tumor biopsies were concordant in several patients. Together, these new pharmacodynamic assays provide evidence for Aurora A inhibition by MLN8054 in patient skin and tumor tissues.
Changes in nitric oxide, cGMP, and nitrotyrosine concentrations over skin along the meridians in obese subjects.	The purposes of these studies were to quantify the concentrations of total nitrate and nitrite (NO(x)(-)) cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP), and nitrotyrosine over skin surface in normal weight healthy volunteers (n = 64) compared to overweight/obese subjects (n = 54). A semi-circular plastic tube was taped to the skin along acupuncture points (acupoints), meridian line without acupoint (MWOP), and nonmeridian control and filled with a 2-Phenyl-4,4,5,5-tetramethylimidazoline-3-oxide-1-oxyl solution for 20 min. The concentrations of NO(x)(-), cGMP, and nitrotyrosine in the samples were quantified in a blinded fashion using chemiluminescence and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, respectively. In normal weight healthy volunteers, NO(x)(-) and cGMP concentrations were consistently increased over the pericardium meridian (PC) 4-7 compared with nonmeridian areas. NO(x)(-) concentration is enhanced over the bladder meridian (BL) 56-57, but cGMP level is similar between the regions. In overweight/obese subjects, NO(x)(-) contents were increased or tended to be elevated over PC and BL regions. cGMP is paradoxically decreased over PC acupoints and nonmeridian control on the forearm but the decreases were blunted along BL regions on the leg. Nitrotyrosine concentrations are markedly elevated (five- to sixfold) over both PC and BL in all areas of overweight/obese subjects. This is the first evidence showing that nitrotyrosine level is tremendously elevated over skin accompanied by paradoxical changes in nitric oxide (NO)-cGMP concentrations over PC skin region in overweight/obese subject. The results suggest that NO-related oxidant inflammation is systemically enhanced while cGMP generation is impaired over PC skin region but not over BL region in obesity.
The role of mitogen- and stress-activated protein kinase 1 and 2 in chronic skin inflammation in mice.	Mitogen- and stress-activated protein kinase 1 and 2 (MSK1/2) are two kinases phosphorylated by both ERK1/2 and p38 MAPK. Recently, MSK1 and 2 have been reported to act as negative regulators of acute inflammation. In this study, we investigated the role of MSK1/2 in chronic skin inflammation using an oxazolone-induced allergic contact dermatitis model in MSK1/2 knockout mice and wild-type mice. MSK1/2 knockout mice were demonstrated to have significantly increased inflammation compared with wild-type mice. This was measured by an increased ear thickness, elevated infiltration of neutrophils in the skin and increased inflammatory histological changes. Furthermore, we found significantly elevated levels of the proinflammatory cytokines Tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-), IL-1 and IL-6 at both mRNA and protein levels in MSK1/2 knockout mice compared with wild-type mice after oxazolone treatment. In addition, the mRNA expression of the chemokine Thymus and activation regulated chemokine (TARC) was demonstrated to be significantly elevated in oxazolone-treated MSK1/2 knockout mice compared with wild-type mice. The increased expression of TARC was paralleled by increased infiltration of cells positive for the TARC receptor, CCR4, in the dermis of MSK1/2 knockout mice. Our results indicate that MSK1/2 are involved in the activation of feedback mechanisms that dampen oxazolone-induced skin inflammation.
Modulation of semaphorin 3A expression by calcium concentration and histamine in human keratinocytes and fibroblasts.	Both neurotrophins and chemorepellents are involved in the elongation and sprouting of itch-associated C-fibers in the skin. Nerve growth factor (NGF) and semaphorin 3A (Sema3A) are representatives of these two types of axon-guidance factors, respectively.
Chest tcpO2 changes during constant-load treadmill walking tests in patients with claudication.	Changes in chest transcutaneous-pO(2) at rest (tcpO(2)) mimic absolute changes in arterial-pO(2) during moderate exercise, although the absolute starting values may dramatically differ. We retrospectively studied 485 patients (group 1), prospectively studied 292 new patients (group 2) and estimated the intra-test and the test-retest reproducibility of tcpO(2) during constant-load treadmill tests: 3.2 km h(-1), 10% grade, using the cross correlation technique. Patients were classified into groups according to their best fit to nine pre-defined mathematic models. Respectively, 71% and 76% of patients of groups 1 and 2 fitted with a model showing a tcpO(2) increase during and a decrease following exercise. Another 18% and 12% of the patients of groups 1 and 2 respectively fitted with a model that showed an abrupt decrease at exercise onset, a slow increase during walking and an overshoot in the recovery period, referred here as a walking-induced transcutaneous hack (WITH) profile. The mean r(max) value for the cross-correlation analysis was 0.919  0.091 and 0.800  0.129 for intra-test and test-retest reproducibility. Most profiles show the expected tcpO(2) exercise-induced increase. Future studies are needed to confirm and explain the WITH profiles that we found, and screen for potential-associated diseases.
Smad interacting protein 1 as a regulator of skin fibrosis in pathological scars.	Keloids and hypertrophic scars are significant symptomatic clinical problems characterized by the excessive and abnormal deposition of collagen-based extracellular matrix (ECM) components. However, the molecular basis of keloid and hypertrophic scar formation has not been fully elucidated. Here, we demonstrated that down-regulation of the transcription factor Smad interacting protein 1 (SIP1) could be relevant to keloid and hypertrophic scar formation. The results of the present study show that the level of SIP1 mRNA is significantly decreased in pathological scar tissues and in normal skin and pathological scar fibroblasts treated with transforming growth factor 1 (TGF-1). In contrast, the expression of SIP1 mRNA is not decreased in normotrophic scar samples. The SIP1 mRNA level inversely correlates with the mRNA level of type I collagen (COL1A2) and directly correlates with the mRNA level of matrix metalloproteinase-1 (MMP1). Overexpression of SIP1 in keloid and hypertrophic scar fibroblasts represses TGF-1-stimulated COL1A2 expression and induces MMP1 expression. Alternatively, knockdown of SIP1 in normal skin fibroblasts enhance TGF-1-induced COL1A2 levels. These findings suggest that SIP1 could be a regulator of skin fibrosis, and depletion of SIP1 in pathological scar tissues could result in an up-regulation of collagen and down-regulation of matrix metalloproteinase, leading to an abnormal accumulation of ECM along with fibrosis and pathological scar formation.
Clinical pharmacology for development of topical dermatological products: present and future opportunities for safety and efficacy.	The development of topical products for dermatological diseases represents an untapped opportunity for the clinical pharmacologist. Assessment of bioavailability of topical drugs and its utility in weighing benefit vs. risk has been unique and challenging, compared with assessments for conventional systemic drugs. However, with continued advances in analytical methods and growing interests in discovering biomarkers, the future opportunities for clinical pharmacology to advance topical drug development processes are enormous and will be limited only by our drive and determination to push science forward.
The vitamin D receptor: a tumor suppressor in skin.	Epidemiologic evidence supporting a major chemopreventive role for vitamin D in various malignancies is strong. Likewise the use of the active metabolite of vitamin D, 1,25(OH)(2)D(3), and its analogs to prevent and/or treat a wide variety of malignancies in animals is well established. The evidence has been less compelling for epidermal carcinogenesis perhaps because the same agent that produces vitamin D in the skin, UVB radiation (UVR), is also the same agent that results in most epidermal malignancies. However, recent studies indicate that the role of vitamin D and its receptor (VDR) in protecting against the development of epidermal tumors deserves a closer look. One such study found mice lacking the VDR were quite sensitive to epidermal tumor formation following the administration of the carcinogen DMBA. A more recent study showed that these mice were similarly more sensitive to tumor formation following UVR, results we have confirmed. The epidermis of the VDR null mouse is hyperproliferative with gross distortion of hair follicles, structures that may provide the origin for the tumors found in the skin following such treatment. Two interacting pathways critical for epidermal and hair follicle function, beta-catenin and hedgehog (Hh), result in epidermal tumors when they are activated abnormally. Thus, we considered the possibility that loss of VDR predisposes to epidermal tumor formation by activation of either or both beta-catenin and Hh signaling. We determined that all elements of the Hh signaling pathway are upregulated in the epidermis and utricles of the VDR null mouse, and that 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) suppresses the expression of these elements in normal mouse skin. In addition we observed that the transcriptional activity of beta-catenin was increased in keratinocytes lacking the VDR. These results lead us to the hypothesis that the VDR with its ligand 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) functions as a tumor suppressor with respect to epidermal tumor formation in response to UVR by regulating Hh and beta-catenin signaling.
Cytochrome P450 isozyme protein verified in the skin of southern hemisphere humpback whales (Megaptera novaeangliae): implications for biochemical biomarker assessment.	Large mysticete whales represent a unique challenge for chemical risk assessment. Few epidemiological investigations are possible due to the low incidence of adult stranding events. Similarly their often extreme life-history adaptations of prolonged migration and fasting challenge exposure assumptions. Molecular biomarkers offer the potential to complement information yielded through tissue chemical analysis, as well as providing evidence of a molecular response to chemical exposure. In this study we confirm the presence of cytochrome P450 reductase (CPR) and cytochrome P450 isoenzyme 1A1 (CYP1A1) in epidermal tissue of southern hemisphere humpback whales (Megaptera novaeangliae). The detection of CYP1A1 in the integument of the humpback whale affords the opportunity for further quantitative non-destructive investigations of enzyme activity as a function of chemical stress.
Association of UV radiation with multiple sclerosis prevalence and sex ratio in France.	French farmers and their families constitute an informative population to study multiple sclerosis (MS) prevalence and related epidemiology. We carried out an ecological study to evaluate the association of MS prevalence and ultraviolet (UV) radiation, a candidate climatologic risk factor.
Liver X receptor-retinoid X receptor (LXR-RXR) heterodimer cistrome reveals coordination of LXR and AP1 signaling in keratinocytes.	Liver X receptors (LXRs) play a critical role in regulating lipid synthesis and transport in numerous tissues. In the skin, activation of LXR induces keratinocyte differentiation and improves epidermal permeability barrier homeostasis. To elucidate the mechanism of LXR action in skin, we mapped its cistrome by identifying LXR-RXR binding sites using ChIP-on-chip in normal human epidermal keratinocytes (NHEKs). The cistrome was integrated with transcription data to obtain a global view of LXR action in keratinocyte biology. Here, we identify 2035 LXR-RXR binding sites containing 4794 LXR response elements in NHEKs and show the presence of consensus heterodimer active regions in genes involved in keratinocyte lipid transport/synthesis and terminal differentiation. Bioinformatics analysis of the cistrome revealed an enrichment of AP1 cis-regulatory motifs in the vicinity of the LXR-RXR binding sites. Importantly, we have demonstrated a direct interaction between LXR and Jun/Fos, indicating that the cooperation between LXR and AP1 may orchestrate keratinocyte differentiation. Finally, we corroborated these results by genome-wide mapping of the c-Fos and c-Jun cistromes in NHEKs, demonstrating that 77% of all the LXR-RXR binding regions show the presence of AP1 motifs at adjacent locations. Our findings provide new insight into the mechanism of LXR action in keratinocyte differentiation, lipid production and barrier formation, further strengthening the validation of LXR as a potential therapeutic target for skin disorders including skin aging, psoriasis, and atopic dermatitis.
A comprehensive analysis of the COL29A1 gene does not support a role in eczema.	Based on a recent positional cloning approach, it was claimed that the collagen 29A1 gene (COL29A1), which encodes an epidermal collagen, represents a major risk gene for eczema underlying a previously reported linkage to chromosome 3q21. However, thus far, not a single replication attempt has been published, and no definitive functional data have been provided.
Atypical lipomatous tumor/"well-differentiated liposarcoma" of the skin clinically presenting as a skin tag: clinicopathologic, immunohistochemical, and molecular analysis of 2 cases.	Liposarcomas are extremely rare in the skin. When they involve the skin, it is usually by upward spread from a subcutaneous or deeper seated liposarcoma. Very rarely, liposarcoma metastasize to the skin or arise as a primary dermal lesion. We describe 2 cases of atypical lipomatous tumor "well-differentiated liposarcoma" located in dermis. Both presented clinically as a skin tag. The neoplasms arose in a 56-year-old female and a 69-year-old male patient. Both lesions were treated by excision and reexcision. In addition to classical morphology of atypical lipomatous tumor with evidence of lipoblasts and atypical adipocytes, immunohistochemistry with nuclear murine double-minute type 2 protein and cyclin-dependent kinase-4 expression as well as fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis showing an amplification of murine double-minute type 2 protein and cyclin-dependent kinase-4 were helpful to establish the diagnosis. None of the cases recurred after surgical treatment. These 2 cases show the importance of not to misdiagnose lesions which clinically may appear to be benign.
Cutaneous vascular anomalies associated with neural tube defects: nomenclature and pathology revisited.	Lumbosacral cutaneous vascular anomalies associated with neural tube defects are frequently described in the literature as "hemangiomas." The classification system for pediatric vascular anomalies developed by the International Society for the Study of Vascular Anomalies provides a framework to accurately diagnose these lesions.
Experimental design for optimizing drug release from silicone elastomer matrix and investigation of transdermal drug delivery.	Silicone elastomers are commonly used for medical devices and external prosthesis. Recently, there has been growing interest in silicone-based medical devices with enhanced function that release drugs from the elastomer matrix. In the current study, an experimental design approach was used to optimize the release properties of the model drug diclofenac from medical silicone elastomer matrix, including a combination of four permeation enhancers as additives and allowing for constraints in the properties of the material. The D-optimal design included six factors and five responses describing material properties and release of the drug. The first experimental object was screening, to investigate the main and interaction effects, based on 29 experiments. All excipients had a significant effect and were therefore included in the optimization, which also allowed the possible contribution of quadratic terms to the model and was based on 38 experiments. Screening and optimization of release and material properties resulted in the production of two optimized silicone membranes, which were tested for transdermal delivery. The results confirmed the validity of the model for the optimized membranes that were used for further testing for transdermal drug delivery through heat-separated human skin. The optimization resulted in an excipient/drug/silicone composition that resulted in a cured elastomer with good tensile strength and a 4- to 7-fold transdermal delivery increase relative to elastomer that did not contain excipients.
Severe burn injury induces a characteristic activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 in spinal dorsal horn neurons.	We have studied scalding-type burn injury-induced activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) in the spinal dorsal horn, which is a recognised marker for spinal nociceptive processing. At 5min after severe scalding injury to mouse hind-paw, a substantial number of phosphorylated ERK1/2 (pERK1/2) immunopositive neurons were found in the ipsilateral dorsal horn. At 1h post-injury, the number of pERK1/2-labelled neurons remained substantially the same. However, at 3h post-injury, a further increase in the number of labelled neurons was found on the ipsilateral side, while a remarkable increase in the number of labelled neurons on the contralateral side resulted in there being no significant difference between the extent of the labelling on both sides. By 6h post-injury, the number of labelled neurons was reduced on both sides without there being significant difference between the two sides. A similar pattern of severe scalding injury-induced activation of ERK1/2 in spinal dorsal horn neurons over the same time-course was found in mice which lacked the transient receptor potential type 1 receptor (TRPV1) except that the extent to which ERK1/2 was activated in the ipsilateral dorsal horn at 5 min post-injury was significantly greater in wild-type animals when compared to TRPV1 null animals. This difference in activation of ERK1/2 in spinal dorsal horn neurons was abolished within 1h after injury, demonstrating that TRPV1 is not essential for the maintenance of ongoing spinal nociceptive processing in inflammatory pain conditions in mouse resulting from at least certain types of severe burn injury.
Detection of iron deposition in dermal fibrocytes is a useful tool for histologic diagnosis of nephrogenic systemic fibrosis.	Nephrogenic systemic fibrosis (NSF) is a fibrotic disease that presents with a history of renal dysfunction. The differential diagnosis generally includes scleromyxedema, systemic sclerosis, and morphea. Especially, scleromyxedema can be extremely difficult to distinguish microscopically. Although the fibrocytes in NSF are often positive for CD34 and procollagen-I, this is not specific for NSF. We identified positive iron staining in the skin of a patient with NSF and investigated whether this was a specific feature among 9 patients with NSF reported in Japan. We found that 6 of 9 patients showed positive iron staining in the dermal fibrocytes. The amount of iron deposition seemed to have no correlation with the degree of fibrosis or duration of the skin lesions but correlated with apparent history of the use of gadolinium-based contrast agents. As controls, skin biopsies from patients with scleromyxedema, morphea, and systemic sclerosis were evaluated by iron staining. None of these control patients showed iron deposition, indicating that positive iron staining may be specific to NSF and can be a useful tool for NSF diagnosis.
Using laser microporation to improve transdermal delivery of diclofenac: Increasing bioavailability and the range of therapeutic applications.	The objective of the study was to investigate the effect of laser microporation, using P.L.E.A.S.E. technology, on diclofenac delivery kinetics. Skin transport of diclofenac was studied from aqueous solution, propylene glycol and marketed formulations across intact and laser-porated porcine and human skins; cumulative permeation and skin deposition were quantified by HPLC. After 24h, cumulative diclofenac permeation across skins with 150, 300, 450 and 900 shallow pores (50-80 m) was 3.7-, 7.5-, 9.2- and 13-fold superior to that across untreated skin. It was also found to be linearly dependent on laser fluence; Permeation (g/cm(2))=11.35*Fluence (J/cm(2))+352.3; r(2)=0.99. After 24h, permeation was 539.6  78.1, 934.5  451.5, 1451.9  151.3 and 1858.6  308.5 g/cm(2), at 22.65, 45.3, 90.6 and 135.9 J/cm(2), respectively. However, there was no statistically significant effect of laser fluence on skin deposition. Diclofenac delivery from marketed gel formulations was also significantly higher across laser-porated skins (e.g. for Solaraze, cumulative permeation after 24h across treated (900 pores/135.9 J/cm(2)) and untreated skin was 974.9  368.8 and 8.2  3.8 g/cm(2), respectively. Diclofenac delivery from Solaraze across laser-porated porcine and human skins was also shown to be statistically equivalent. The results demonstrated that laser microporation significantly increased diclofenac transport from both simple and semi-solid formulations through porcine and human skin and that pore depth and pore number could modulate delivery kinetics. A similar improvement in topical diclofenac delivery in vivo may increase the number of potential therapeutic applications.
Non-invasive iontophoretic delivery of peptides and proteins across the skin.	Peptides and proteins are playing an increasingly important role in modern therapy. Their potency and specificity make them excellent therapeutic agents; however, their physicochemical properties and stability requirements almost invariably necessitate their administration by subcutaneous, intramuscular or intravenous injection. Controlled non-invasive administration using more patient-friendly advanced delivery technologies may combine the precision afforded by parenteral administration with improved compliance and the potential for individualized therapy.
Laser-assisted topical drug delivery by using a low-fluence fractional laser: imiquimod and macromolecules.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the ability of a low-fluence fractional erbium:yttrim-aluminum-garnet (Er:YAG) laser, with a wavelength of 2940 nm, for enhancing and controlling the skin permeation of imiquimod and macromolecules such as polypeptides and fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-labeled dextran (FD). The in vitro permeation has been determined using a Franz diffusion cell, with porcine skin and nude mouse skin as the barriers. Hyperproliferative and ultraviolet (UV)-irradiated skins were also used as barrier models to mimic the clinical therapeutic conditions. Confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) was used to examine the in vivo nude mouse skin uptake of peptide, FITC, and FD. Both in vitro and in vivo results indicated an improvement in permeant skin delivery by the laser. The laser fluence and number of passes were found to play important roles in controlling drug transport. Increases of 46- and 127-fold in imiquimod flux were detected using the respective fluences of 2 and 3 J/cm(2) with 4 pulses. An imiquimod concentration of 0.4% from aqueous vehicle with laser treatment was sufficient to approximate the flux from the commercial cream with an imiquimod dose of 5% without laser treatment, indicating a reduction of the drug dose by 125-fold. The enhancement of peptide permeation was size and sequence dependent, with the smaller molecular weight (MW) and more-hydrophilic entities showing greater enhancing effect. Skin permeation of FD with an MW of at least 150 kDa could be achieved with fractional laser irradiation. CLSM images revealed intense green fluorescence from the permeants after exposure of the skin to the laser. The follicular pathway was significant in laser-assisted permeation.
Interaction between carotenoids and free radicals in human skin.	Environmental factors like air pollutants, radiation of the sun and stress factors such as illness, smoking, or alcohol abuse produce free radicals in the human tissue as well as in the skin. Free radicals serve as the main cause for premature skin aging. Additionally, they also contribute towards immunosuppression and the formation of skin diseases including cancer. The human organism has developed a protection system against the destructive action of free radicals by means of the antioxidant network. In the present study, the interaction of free radicals and carotenoid antioxidants in the human skin under in vivo conditions was investigated and summarized. The measurement of carotenoids in human skin was performed in vivo using resonance Raman spectroscopy.
Pathways of lateral spreading.	In the case of topically applied substances, usually both lateral spreading and competitive penetration into the skin occur in parallel. In the present study, the pathways of lateral spreading were studied quantitatively and visually. The local distribution and lateral spreading of the UV filter substance butyl methoxydibenzoylmethane applied in an o/w emulsion was studied on the forearm and the back. The tape stripping procedure was used to determine the recovery rates inside and outside the area of application. The skin characteristics of transepidermal water loss, pH value, hydration of the stratum corneum and sebum rate were determined at both anatomic sites. Photography and laser scanning microscopy were used to visually investigate the lateral spreading of topically applied dyes. On the back, a preferred direction of lateral spreading parallel to the body axis was observed. This result was caused by differences in the network of furrows. The furrows functioned as a pathway for lateral spreading, whereas the follicles formed a reservoir for the topically applied substance.
Delivery of polymeric particles into skin using needle-free liquid jet injectors.	Needle-free liquid jet injectors have been developed for the delivery of several drugs including insulin and growth hormone. Here, we assess the ability of liquid jet injectors to deliver polymeric nanoparticles into skin. As a first step, polystyrene particles of several sizes and two shapes were injected into skin using a jet injector. The dispersion area of particles, measured in the cross section of the skin, was found to inversely relate to the particle size and directly proportional to the injection volume. Environmental scanning electron microscopy studies confirmed that particles indeed penetrate into the skin and are generally located around the injection site. Next, poly lactide co-glycolide (PLGA) particles, containing a model solute, coumarin-6, were synthesized and delivered into the skin using the jet injector. PLGA particles were effectively delivered into the skin and released coumarin-6 into the skin.
Enhanced StefinA and Sprr2 expression during papilloma formation in HPV8 transgenic mice.	The human papillomavirus type 8 (HPV8) is associated with the development of non-melanoma skin cancer. Transgenic mice expressing the complete early gene region of HPV8 (E6/E7/E1/E2/E4=CER) or E6 separately under the control of the keratin14 promoter spontaneously developed papillomas characterized by varying degrees of epidermal dysplasia. Papilloma growth could be synchronized by a single UVA/B irradiation of the skin, which led to the development of papillomas within three weeks.
Targeted expression of tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand TRAIL in skin protects mice against chemical carcinogenesis.	Gene ablation studies have revealed that tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL, Apo2L, TNFSF10) plays a crucial role in tumor surveillance, as TRAIL-deficient mice exhibit an increased sensitivity to different types of tumorigenesis. In contrast, possible tumor-protective effect of increased levels of endogenous TRAIL expression in vivo has not been assessed yet. Such models will provide important information about the efficacy of TRAIL-based therapies and potential toxicity in specific tissues.
Isotretinoin increases skin-surface levels of neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin in patients treated for severe acne.	A clear-cut need exists for safe and effective alternatives to the use of isotretinoin in severe acne. Lack of data regarding the specifics of isotretinoin's mechanism of action has hampered progress in this area. Recently, the protein neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL) has been identified as a mediator of the apoptotic effect of isotretinoin on sebocytes.
An investigation of the fluorescence induced by topical application of 5-aminolaevulinic acid and methyl aminolaevulinate at different body sites on normal human skin.	Although discovered over a century ago it is only in the last 25 years that photodynamic therapy (PDT) has been the focus of intense research. This versatile treatment modality has been shown to be effective in treating a wide variety of malignancies, and with the increasing incidence of non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) is a recognised treatment in dermatology clinics worldwide. There is little known as to whether different body sites influence the uptake and conversion of 5-aminolaevulinic acid (ALA) or methyl aminolaevulinate (MAL) to protoporphyrin IX (PpIX). In this study we investigated the characteristics of PpIX fluorescence within normal skin following the application of both ALA and MAL to four different body sites and the effect of tape stripping.
Modification of direct immunofluorescence assay to study paraffin-embedded renal and skin tissue sections]	Immunofluorescence assay has been widely used so far to diagnose glomerular and some skin diseases. The optimal antigen persistence is achieved using the frozen sections; however, their considerable shortcoming is the impossibility to long store preparations and to use a morphology archive. Our laboratory has modified a direct immunofluorescence study on paraffin-embedded renal and skin tissue sections, substantially increasing its accessibility.
Impaired biomechanical properties of diabetic skin implications in pathogenesis of diabetic wound complications.	Diabetic skin is known to have deficient wound healing properties, but little is known of its intrinsic biomechanical properties. We hypothesize that diabetic skin possesses inferior biomechanical properties at baseline, rendering it more prone to injury. Skin from diabetic and nondiabetic mice and humans underwent biomechanical testing. Real-time PCR was performed for genes integral to collagen synthesis and degradation. MMP-2 and MMP-9, and TIMP-1 protein levels were assessed by ELISA and zymography. Collagen I and III content was assessed using Western blot analysis. At baseline, both murine and human diabetic skin was biomechanically inferior compared to nondiabetic skin, with decreased maximum stress and decreased modulus (P < 0.001 and < 0.05, respectively). Surprisingly, the expression of genes involved in collagen synthesis were significantly up-regulated, and genes involved in collagen degradation were significantly down-regulated in murine diabetic skin (P < 0.01). In addition, MMP-2 and MMP-9/TIMP-1 protein ratios were significantly lower in murine diabetic skin (P < 0.05). Collagen I levels and I:III ratios were lower in diabetic skin (P < 0.05). These findings suggest that the predisposition of diabetics to wounds may be the result of impaired tissue integrity at baseline, and are due, in part, to a defect in the regulation of collagen protein synthesis at the post-transcriptional level.
Memristive model of electro-osmosis in skin.	We show that some of the nonlinear conductance properties of electro-osmosis in sweat-duct capillaries may be modeled by a memristive circuit. This includes both the observed phase shift and amplitude modulation of the electrical current response to a simple harmonic driving potential. Memristive sytems may therefore be expected to play a role in modeling the electrical properties of skin, and perhaps also in other systems where nonlinearities are observed in their bioimpedance.
A dominant mutation etiologic for human tricho-dento-osseous syndrome impairs the ability of DLX3 to downregulate Np63.	The homeodomain transcription factors play crucial roles in many developmental processes ranging from organization of the body plan to differentiation of individual tissues. The homeodomain protein Distal-less-3 (DLX3) has an essential role in epidermal stratification and development of ectodermal appendages, placenta and bones. A four-nucleotide deletion in the human DLX3 gene is etiologic for the human hereditary tricho-dento-osseous (TDO) ectodermal dysplasia, a dominant syndrome characterized by abnormalities in hair, nails, teeth, and bones. We have previously demonstrated that DLX3 gene expression induces degradation of Np63, a specific product of the TP63 gene, a master regulator of multi-layered epithelia. Here we show that the DLX3(TDO) mutant protein is unable to promote Np63 protein degradation and impairs the expression of cell cycle regulatory proteins and skin differentiation markers. However, we found that in cell expressing equal amounts of mutant and wild-type DLX3, Np63 protein level is efficiently regulated implying that genetic heterozygosity at the DLX3 locus protects TDO patients from developing severe p63-associated skin defects.
Co-overexpression of Bag-1 and heat shock protein 70 in human epidermal squamous cell carcinoma: Bag-1-mediated resistance to 5-fluorouracil-induced apoptosis.	The aim was to determine whether Bcl-2-associated athanogene-1 (Bag-1) and/or its binding protein heat shock protein-70 (Hsp70) exhibit deregulated expression in epidermal squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) and whether Bag-1 confers apoptosis resistance.
Relationships between the particle velocity and introduction of drug-loaded microparticles into the skin in a microparticulate bombardment system.	Recently, it has been suggested that a microparticulate bombardment system would be a very useful tool for the delivery of a variety of powdered drugs as an alternative to parenteral injection via a needle. However the relationship between the particle dynamics and introduction into the skin has not been researched using this system. In the present study, we analyzed the velocity of microparticles bombarded by the Helios(TM) gun system under various conditions using particle image velocimetry (PIV). The particle kinetic energy, which depended on the particle velocity and particle mass, was increased with increasing helium pressure and particle size, decreasing bombardment dose, resulting in the increased percentage introduction and relative bioavailability (F(0-24 h)). The particle velocity had a greater influence than the particle mass. Therefore, in order to be the most effective system for introduction into the skin, it is necessary to use a high helium pressure and microparticles of high density. However, it is also necessary to consider the skin damage after bombardment.
Microsecond thermal ablation of skin for transdermal drug delivery.	Thermal ablation is a promising mechanism to increase permeability of the skin's outer barrier layer of stratum corneum while sparing deeper living tissues. In this study, finite element modeling predicted that the skin surface should only be heated on the microsecond timescale in order to avoid significant temperature rises in living cells and nerve endings in deeper tissue. To achieve such short thermal pulses, we developed a microdevice that rapidly heats a few microliters of water by an electrical discharge and ejects the resulting superheated steam at the skin surface on a timescale on the order of 100 s. According to its design, we showed that this microdevice selectively removed stratum corneum of cadaver skin without significantly removing deeper tissue. This one-dimensional depth control was supplemented through the use of a masking film containing 100 m-diameter holes placed on the skin surface during ablation to define the ablated skin area and thereby provide three-dimensional control over tissue removal. Using this approach, thermal ablation increased skin permeability to sulforhodamine B and bovine serum albumin by at least 1000-fold in vitro. We conclude that microsecond thermal ablation of skin can selectively remove stratum corneum and thereby dramatically increase skin permeability for transdermal drug delivery.
Anti-photoaging effects of soy isoflavone extract (aglycone and acetylglucoside form) from soybean cake.	Soy isoflavones, found in soybean and soybean products, have been reported to possess many physiological activities such as antioxidant activity, inhibition of cancer cell proliferation, reduction of cardiovascular risk, prevention of osteoporosis and alleviation of postmenopausal syndrome. In our previous study, soy isoflavone extract ISO-1 (containing 12 soy isoflavones) from soybean cake was demonstrated to prevent skin damage caused by UVB exposure. In this study, soy isoflavone extract from soybean cake was further purified and evaluated for the protective effects on UVB-induced damage. The results revealed that Fraction 3, which contains the aglycone group (daidzein, genistein and glycitein) and acetylglucoside group (acetyldaidzin, acetylgenistin and acetylglycitin) of soy isoflavones, could inhibit UVB-induced death of human keratinocytes and reduce the level of desquamation, transepidermal water loss (TEWL), erythema and epidermal thickness in mouse skin. Furthermore, topical application of Fraction 3 increased the activity of catalase and suppressed cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) expression in mice exposed to UVB. In addition, in comparison with ISO-1 and genistein, the Fraction 3 possessed much greater protective effects on both UVB-induced oxidative stress and keratinocyte death than other fractions. Therefore, the soy isoflavone extract Fraction 3 from soybean cake is a desirable anti-photoaging agent for skin care.
Primary cutaneous marginal zone lymphoma with subclinical cutaneous involvement and biclonality.	Primary cutaneous extranodal marginal zone lymphoma (MZL) of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) represents a monoclonal B-cell neoplasm that typically presents with papules, plaques or nodules. We describe a patient with a primary cutaneous MALT lymphoma with unusual clinical features and an unusual immunophenotype. Conventional microscopy together with immunohistochemistry and in-situ hybridization showed the presence of lymphoma in normal-appearing and minimally erythematous skin as well as in clinically involved skin. Furthermore, at least two distinct clones were shown, one of which had -light chain restriction, and the other of which had -light chain restriction. This case represents a newly described clinical appearance of primary cutaneous MZL and shows that some patients may have more than one neoplastic clone.
Skin intrinsic fluorescence is associated with hemoglobin A(1c )and hemoglobin glycation index but not mean blood glucose in children with type 1 diabetes.	To evaluate the relationship between skin advanced glycation end products (sAGEs) with mean blood glucose (MBG), hemoglobin A(1c) (HbA(1c)), and MBG-independent, between-patient differences in HbA(1c) among children with type 1 diabetes.
Development of a liver-targeted stearoyl-CoA desaturase (SCD) inhibitor (MK-8245) to establish a therapeutic window for the treatment of diabetes and dyslipidemia.	The potential use of SCD inhibitors for the chronic treatment of diabetes and dyslipidemia has been limited by preclinical adverse events associated with inhibition of SCD in skin and eye tissues. To establish a therapeutic window, we embarked on designing liver-targeted SCD inhibitors by utilizing molecular recognition by liver-specific organic anion transporting polypeptides (OATPs). In doing so, we set out to target the SCD inhibitor to the organ believed to be responsible for the therapeutic efficacy (liver) while minimizing its exposure in the tissues associated with mechanism-based SCD depletion of essential lubricating lipids (skin and eye). These efforts led to the discovery of MK-8245 (7), a potent, liver-targeted SCD inhibitor with preclinical antidiabetic and antidyslipidemic efficacy with a significantly improved therapeutic window.
Novel, activating KIT-N822I mutation in familial cutaneous mastocytosis.	We report the rare family in which cutaneous mastocytosis was diagnosed in the father and two children, with urticaria pigmentosa as the only manifestation of the disease. The diagnosis of mastocytosis in the father included bone marrow histopathological and cytological examinations and flow cytometry, and histopathological examination of the skin. In the children, tryptase measurement and skin histopathological examination were performed.
Noninvasive transdermal iontophoretic delivery of biologically active human basic fibroblast growth factor.	Human basic fibroblast growth factor (hbFGF; 17.4 kDa) has shown promise in the treatment of several dermatological conditions; symptomatic improvement was also observed in patients with peripheral arterial disease after arterial infusion. The objective of this study was to demonstrate the feasibility of using transdermal iontophoresis to deliver biologically active hbFGF noninvasively into and across the skin. The protein was cloned, expressed and purified in-house. Porcine skin was used to investigate transdermal iontophoretic transport of hbFGF as a function of current density (0.15, 0.3, and 0.5 mA/cm(2)); results were subsequently confirmed using human skin. Cumulative hbFGF permeation and skin deposition were quantified by ELISA. The absence of proteolytic degradation during skin transit was confirmed by SDS-PAGE. Biological activity postdelivery was determined using cell proliferation assays in human foreskin fibroblast (HFF) and NIH 3T3 cell lines. Confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) was used to visualize the distribution of rhodamine-tagged hbFGF in the skin. Cumulative iontophoretic permeation at 0.3 mA/cm(2) was statistically superior to that at 0.15 mA/cm(2); however, there was no further improvement at 0.5 mA/cm(2). Significant skin deposition of hbFGF was observed, and this dominated transport; for example, after iontophoresis for 8 h at 0.5 mA/cm(2), skin deposition (77.74  37.36 g/cm(2)) was 4.4-fold higher than cumulative permeation (17.64  5.18 g/cm(2)). The superior skin deposition may be advantageous for dermatological applications. The HFF and NIH 3T3 cell proliferation assays confirmed that biological activity of hbFGF was retained postdelivery. Coiontophoresis of acetaminophen showed that the dominant transport mechanism switched from electroosmosis to electromigration upon increasing current density from 0.15 to 0.3 mA/cm(2). Experiments using human skin confirmed that iontophoretic permeation of hbFGF across porcine and human membranes was statistically equivalent. CLSM images of rhodamine-tagged hbFGF postiontophoresis indicated that the protein was evenly distributed throughout the epidermis and dermis. In conclusion, the results confirmed that transdermal iontophoresis was indeed able to deliver structurally intact, functional hbFGF noninvasively into and across the skin. The amounts of protein delivered were similar to those in reports from preclinical and clinical studies.
A solitary mastocytoma presenting with urticaria and angioedema in a 14-year-old boy.	Urticaria with angioedema is a common clinical presentation that often poses a challenge for allergists. The differential diagnosis for urticaria is broad, making the evaluation and pinpointing the underlying cause difficult and frustrating for both families and physicians. Certain causes of urticaria such as infections or medications are more common and easier to identify whereas less frequently seen conditions are often overlooked because of their rarity. One such condition is mastocytosis. Mastocytosis is a rare disease that very seldom presents with urticaria but may be associated with significant morbidity and mortality if not recognized in a timely manner. We are presenting a case of a 14-year-old boy who presented with urticaria and angioedema possibly caused by a solitary mastocytoma. The learning points from this case are that mastocytosis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of urticaria and solitary mastocytomas may remain active into adolescence, raising concern for systemic progression.
Characterization of microchannels created by metal microneedles: formation and closure.	Transdermal delivery of therapeutic agents for cosmetic therapy is limited to small and lipophilic molecules by the stratum corneum barrier. Microneedle technology overcomes this barrier and offers a minimally invasive and painless route of administration. DermaRoller(), a commercially available handheld device, has metal microneedles embedded on its surface which offers a means of microporation. We have characterized the microneedles and the microchannels created by these microneedles in a hairless rat model, using models with 370 and 770 m long microneedles. Scanning electron microscopy was employed to study the geometry and dimensions of the metal microneedles. Dye binding studies, histological sectioning, and confocal microscopy were performed to characterize the created microchannels. Recovery of skin barrier function after poration was studied via transepidermal water loss (TEWL) measurements, and direct observation of the pore closure process was investigated via calcein imaging. Characterization studies indicate that 770 m long metal microneedles with an average base width of 140 m and a sharp tip with a radius of 4 m effectively created microchannels in the skin with an average depth of 152.5  9.6 m and a surface diameter of 70.7  9.9 m. TEWL measurements indicated that skin regains it barrier function around 4 to 5 h after poration, for both 370 and 770 m microneedles. However, direct observation of pore closure, by calcein imaging, indicated that pores closed by 12 h for 370 m microneedles and by 18 h for 770 m microneedles. Pore closure can be further delayed significantly under occluded conditions.
L-PRP/L-PRF in esthetic plastic surgery, regenerative medicine of the skin and chronic wounds.	The use of platelet concentrates for topical use is of particular interest for the promotion of skin wound healing. Fibrin-based surgical adjuvants are indeed widely used in plastic surgery since many years in order to improve scar healing and wound closure. However, the addition of platelets and their associated growth factors opened a new range of possibilities, particularly for the treatment of chronic skin ulcers and other applications of regenerative medicine on the covering tissues. In the 4 families of platelet concentrates available, 2 families were particularly used and tested in this clinical field: L-PRP (Leukocyte- and Platelet-rich Plasma) and L-PRF (Leukocyte- and Platelet-Rich Fibrin). These 2 families have in common the presence of significant concentrations of leukocytes, and these cells are important in the local cleaning and immune regulation of the wound healing process. The main difference between them is the fibrin architecture, and this parameter considerably influences the healing potential and the therapeutical protocol associated to each platelet concentrate technology. In this article, we describe the historical evolutions of these techniques from the fibrin glues to the current L-PRP and L-PRF, and discuss the important functions of the platelet growth factors, the leukocyte content and the fibrin architecture in order to optimize the numerous potential applications of these products in regenerative medicine of the skin. Many outstanding perspectives are appearing in this field and require further research.
TRPV1 and TRPA1 function and modulation are target tissue dependent.	The nerve growth factor (NGF) and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) families of growth factors regulate the sensitivity of sensory neurons. The ion channels transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) and transient receptor potential channel, subfamily A, member 1 (TRPA1), are necessary for development of inflammatory hypersensitivity and are functionally potentiated by growth factors. We have shown previously that inflamed skin exhibits rapid increases in artemin mRNA with slower, smaller increases in NGF mRNA. Here, using mice, we show that, in inflamed colon, mRNA for both growth factors increased with a pattern distinct from that seen in skin. Differences were also seen in the pattern of TRPV1 and TRPA1 mRNA expression in DRG innervating inflamed skin and colon. Growth factors potentiated capsaicin (a specific TRPV1 agonist) and mustard oil (a specific TRPA1 agonist) behavioral responses in vivo, raising the question as to how these growth factors affect individual afferents. Because individual tissues are innervated by afferents with unique properties, we investigated modulation of TRPV1 and TRPA1 in identified afferents projecting to muscle, skin, and colon. Muscle and colon afferents are twice as likely as skin afferents to express functional TRPV1 and TRPA1. TRPV1 and TRPA1 responses were potentiated by growth factors in all afferent types, but compared with skin afferents, muscle afferents were twice as likely to exhibit NGF-induced potentiation and one-half as likely to exhibit artemin-induced potentiation of TRPV1. Furthermore, skin afferents showed no GDNF-induced potentiation of TRPA1, but 43% of muscle and 38% of colon afferents exhibited GDNF-induced potentiation. These results show that interpretation of afferent homeostatic mechanisms must incorporate properties that are specific to the target tissue.
Usefulness of rat skin as a substitute for human skin in the in vitro skin permeation study.	Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats are broadly used in preclinical studies for drug development, so a lot of information for the rats can be obtained especially from pharmacokinetic, pharmacological and toxicological studies. The purpose of this study was to clarify whether SD rat skin can be used to predict human skin permeability. In vitro permeation studies of the three model drugs, nicorandil, isosorbide dinitrate, and flurbiprofen, through human skin and SD rat skin were performed using Franz-type diffusion cells. The permeation rates of the three model drugs through human skin and SD rat skin were determined, and their variations were evaluated. The inter-individual variations in SD rat skin permeability of the three model drugs were much lower than that in human skin permeability, although the permeation rates of the three model drugs through the SD rat skin were about twice those through human skin. In addition, no difference in the skin permeability coefficients of the three model drugs was obtained between fresh SD rat skin and frozen SD rat skin. The markedly smaller variation in the permeability through SD rat skin compared with that through human skin indicated that in vitro permeation studies using SD rat skin would be especially useful for evaluating differences in the skin permeability of the three model drugs as well as for predicting human skin permeability.
Myricetin is a potent chemopreventive phytochemical in skin carcinogenesis.	Myricetin is a widely distributed flavonol that is found in many plants, including tea, berries, fruits, vegetables, and medicinal herbs. Abundant sources provide interesting insights into the multiple mechanisms by which myricetin mediates chemopreventive effects on skin cancer. Myricetin strongly inhibited tumor promoter-induced neoplastic cell transformation by inhibiting MEK, JAK1, Akt, and MKK4 kinase activity directly. In a mouse skin model, myricetin attenuated the ultraviolet B (UVB)-induced COX-2 expression and skin tumor formation by regulating Fyn. Myricetin-mediated inactivation of Akt in the UVB response plays a role in regulating UVB-induced carcinogenesis. Recently, myricetin was found to inhibit UVB-induced angiogenesis by targeting PI3-K in an SKH-1 hairless mouse skin tumorigenesis model. Raf kinase is a critical target for myricetin in inhibiting the UVB-induced formation of wrinkles and suppression of type I procollagen and collagen levels in mouse skin. Accumulated data suggest that myricetin acts as a promising agent for the chemoprevention of skin cancer.
Sun-seeking behavior to increase cutaneous vitamin D synthesis: when prevention messages conflict.	The public has long been encouraged to engage in sun-safe practices to minimize exposure to sunlight, the major cause of nonmelanoma skin cancer. More recently, some have advocated unprotected sun exposure to increase cutaneous synthesis of vitamin D as a way to promote health. We assessed the net result of these conflicting messages.
Identification of specific chondroitin sulfate species in cutaneous autoimmune disease.	Cutaneous lupus erythematosus and dermatomyositis (DM) are chronic inflammatory diseases of the skin with accumulated dermal mucin. Earlier work has shown chondroitin sulfate (CS) accumulation within the dermis of discoid lupus erythematosus (DLE), subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus (SCLE), and DM lesions compared with control skin. Immunohistochemistry for C4S revealed a greater density in DLE and DM lesions, whereas SCLE lesions did not differ from controls. Scleredema and scleromyxedema are attributed to increased hyaluronic acid, and lesional samples from these diseases also demonstrated accumulated dermal C4S. Interferon- and interleukin-1, but not interferon-, treatment of cultured dermal fibroblasts induced mRNA expression of CHST-11, which attaches sulfates to the 4-position of unsulfated chondroitin. These studies on possible CS core proteins revealed that serglycin, known to have C6S side chains in endothelial cells, had greater density within DM dermal endothelia but not in DLE or SCLE, following the pattern of C6S overexpression reported previously. CD44 variants expand the CS binding repertoire of the glycoprotein; CD44v7 co-localized to the distribution of C4S in DLE lesions, a finding not observed in DM, SCLE lesions, or controls. Because C4S and C6S have immunologic effects, their dysregulation in cutaneous mucinoses may contribute to the pathogenesis of these disorders.
A novel epidermal growth factor receptor variant lacking multiple domains directly activates transcription and is overexpressed in tumors.	The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is essential to multiple physiological and neoplastic processes via signaling by its tyrosine kinase domain and subsequent activation of transcription factors. EGFR overexpression and alteration, including point mutations and structural variants, contribute to oncogenesis in many tumor types. In this study, we identified an in-frame splice variant of the EGFR called mini-LEEK (mLEEK) that is more broadly expressed than the EGFR and is overexpressed in several cancers. Unlike previously characterized EGFR variants, mLEEK lacks the extracytoplasmic, transmembrane and tyrosine kinase domains. mLEEK localizes in the nucleus and functions as a transcription factor to regulate target genes involved in the cellular response to endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, including the master regulator of the unfolded protein response (UPR) pathways, molecular chaperone GRP78/Bip. We demonstrated that mLEEK regulates GRP78 transcription through direct interaction with a cis-regulatory element within the gene promoter. Several UPR pathways were interrogated and mLEEK expression was found to attenuate the induction of all pathways upon ER stress. Conversely, knockdown of mLEEK resulted in caspase-mediated cell death and sensitization to ER stress. These findings indicate that mLEEK levels determine cellular responses to unfavorable conditions that cause ER stress. This information, along with the overexpression of mLEEK in tumors, suggests unique strategies for therapeutic intervention. Furthermore, the identification of mLEEK expands the known mechanisms by which the EGFR gene contributes to oncogenesis and represents the first link between two previously disparate areas in cancer cell biology: EGFR signaling and the UPR.
Vitamin D supplementation in adults--guidelines]	Vitamin D is necessary in maintaining appropriate calcium and phosphate homeostasis in the body (classical function) and ensuring appropriate functioning of many tissues, organs and cells, unrelated to mineral economy (non-classical function). Vitamin D deficiency in adults may cause osteomalacia, increase fracture risk in osteoporosis, induce cardiovascular diseases, diabetes type 1 and 2, multiple sclerosis, Lesniowski-Crohn disease, and cancer, including colon, breast, and prostate cancer. Possible causes of vitamin D deficiency in a healthy population include decreased cutaneous synthesis and an inadequate intake of vitamin D, both in food and in supplements. Vitamin D deficiency level (25(OH) D. <20 ng/mL), is fairly widespread, being found in a substantial percentage of healthy subjects around the world, regardless of race, gender and age. Daily vitamin D dose, as determined by the Food and Nutrition Board in 1997, is now rather insufficient, the biggest problem being associated with maximal vitamin D levels (50 g/day) in actually available food supplements. Nowadays, it is recommended that adults need a minimum of 800-1,000 U/day when their exposure to the sun is inadequate (in Poland from October to April). This dosage should be provided to all subjects who avoid sunlight, as well as to those aged over 65 because of their slower skin synthesis of vitamin D and for its proven anti-fracture and anti-fall effects.
Ichthyin/NIPAL4 localizes to keratins and desmosomes in epidermis and Ichthyin mutations affect epidermal lipid metabolism.	Autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis (ARCI) is a group of disorders characterized by abnormal desquamation of the skin and a disrupted epidermal water barrier. Ichthyin/NIPAL4 gene mutations have been identified in a subgroup of ARCI patients, but the role of ichthyin in epidermis remains elusive. In order to obtain new insights concerning the characteristics of ichthyin and the ARCI pathogenesis, we studied the expression and localization of ichthyin and related epidermal components in cultured keratinocytes and skin sections from patients with Ichthyin mutations and healthy controls. We observed an up-regulation of Ichthyin mRNA levels after in vitro differentiation of keratinocytes from both a patient with Ichthyin mutations and controls. Confocal and electron microscopy analyses of immunolabeled skin sections revealed that ichthyin localizes to desmosomes and keratins in both patients with mutant Ichthyin and controls, with an increased immunolabeling in patients. Nile red lipid analysis of skin sections exposed intra-cellular lipid accumulations in cells of the granular and cornified layers in patients but not in controls, consistent with the pathognomonic lipid membrane structures previously identified in epidermis from patients. Our combined findings indicate that ichthyin is associated with keratins and desmosomes in epidermis and is involved in lipid metabolism, possibly through processing of lamellar bodies. These results provide new clues to the understanding of the epidermal water barrier and the pathogenesis in ARCI.
Serum neurotensin (NT) is increased in psoriasis and NT induces vascular endothelial growth factor release from human mast cells.	Psoriasis involves skin inflammation that often worsens with stress, but the mechanism of this effect remains obscure. We have shown that corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) is increased in the serum of patients with psoriasis. A peptide, neurotensin (NT), can trigger skin histamine release and augment the ability of CRH to increase skin vascular permeability.
A low-invasive and effective transcutaneous immunization system using a novel dissolving microneedle array for soluble and particulate antigens.	Transcutaneous immunization (TCI) is a promising needle-free, easy-to-use, and low-invasive vaccination method. The hydrogel patch-based TCI system induced immune responses against soluble antigens (Ags) like toxoids, but could not induce immune responses against particulate Ags. Here, as an effective TCI system against every form of Ag, we developed a dissolving microneedle array of three lengths (200, 300, or 800 m) made of hyaluronate as a novel TCI device. Unlike conventional microneedles, the microneedles of our dissolving microneedle arrays dissolved in the skin after insertion. Each dissolving microneedle array effectively delivered both soluble and particulate Ags under the stratum corneum. TCI using these dissolving microneedle arrays induced effective immune responses in rats regardless of the Ag form that were comparable to conventional vaccination using subcutaneous immunization. In addition, application of these dissolving microneedle arrays caused only slight skin irritation. These findings suggest that our TCI system can simply, safely, and effectively improve protective immune responses for every vaccine Ag.
Formulation of microemulsion systems for dermal delivery of silymarin.	Silymarin is a standardized extract from Silybum marianum seeds, known for its many skin benefits such as antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and immunomodulatory properties. In this study, the potential of several microemulsion formulations for dermal delivery of silymarin was evaluated. The pseudo-ternary phase diagrams were constructed for the various microemulsion formulations which were prepared using glyceryl monooleate, oleic acid, ethyl oleate, or isopropyl myristate as the oily phase; a mixture of Tween 20, Labrasol, or Span 20 with HCO-40 (1:1 ratio) as surfactants; and Transcutol as a cosurfactant. Oil-in-water microemulsions were selected to incorporate 2% w/w silymarin. After six heating-cooling cycles, physical appearances of all microemulsions were unchanged and no drug precipitation occurred. Chemical stability studies showed that microemulsion containing Labrasol and isopropyl myristate stored at 40C for 6months showed the highest silybin remaining among others. The silybin remainings depended on the type of surfactant and were sequenced in the order of: Labrasol>Tween 20>Span 20. In vitro release studies showed prolonged release for microemulsions when compared to silymarin solution. All release profiles showed the best fits with Higuchi kinetics. Non-occlusive in vitro skin permeation studies showed absence of transdermal delivery of silybin. The percentages of silybin in skin extracts were not significantly different among the different formulations (p>0.05). Nevertheless, some silybin was detected in the receiver fluid when performing occlusive experiments. Microemulsions containing Labrasol also were found to enhance silymarin solubility. Other drug delivery systems with occlusive effect could be further developed for dermal delivery of silymarin.
Flower-deficient mice have reduced susceptibility to skin papilloma formation.	Skin papillomas arise as a result of clonal expansion of mutant cells. It has been proposed that the expansion of pretumoral cell clones is propelled not only by the increased proliferation capacity of mutant cells, but also by active cell selection. Previous studies in Drosophila describe a clonal selection process mediated by the Flower (Fwe) protein, whereby cells that express certain Fwe isoforms are recognized and forced to undergo apoptosis. It was further shown that knock down of fwe expression in Drosophila can prevent the clonal expansion of dMyc-overexpressing pretumoral cells. Here, we study the function of the single predicted mouse homolog of Drosophila Fwe, referred to as mFwe, by clonal overexpression of mFwe isoforms in Drosophila and by analyzing mFwe knock-out mice. We show that clonal overexpression of certain mFwe isoforms in Drosophila also triggers non-autonomous cell death, suggesting that Fwe function is evolutionarily conserved. Although mFwe-deficient mice display a normal phenotype, they develop a significantly lower number of skin papillomas upon exposure to DMBA/TPA two-stage skin carcinogenesis than do treated wild-type and mFwe heterozygous mice. Furthermore, mFwe expression is higher in papillomas and the papilloma-surrounding skin of treated wild-type mice compared with the skin of untreated wild-type mice. Thus, we propose that skin papilloma cells take advantage of mFwe activity to facilitate their clonal expansion.
Systemic elastin degradation in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.	Development of emphysema and vascular stiffness in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) may be due to a common mechanism of susceptibility to pulmonary and systemic elastin degradation.
Single-nucleotide polymorphisms associated with skin naphthyl-keratin adduct levels in workers exposed to naphthalene.	Individual genetic variation that results in differences in systemic response to xenobiotic exposure is not accounted for as a predictor of outcome in current exposure assessment models.
Non-invasive skin biomarkers quantification of psoriasis and atopic dermatitis: cytokines, antioxidants and psoriatic skin auto-fluorescence.	Psoriasis and atopic dermatitis (AD) are challenging to treat due to the absence of suitable monitoring procedure and their recurrences. Alteration of skin hydrophilic biomarkers (SHB) and structural elements occur in both disorders and may possess a distinct profile for each clinical condition.
Surface modifications of microprojection arrays for improved biomarker capture in the skin of live mice.	New technologies are needed to translate biomarker discovery research into simple, inexpensive, and effective molecular diagnostic assays for use by clinicians or patients to guide and monitor treatment. Microprojection arrays were recently introduced as tools which, when applied to the skin, penetrate into the dermal tissue, and capture specific circulating biomarkers. In our initial work on Microprojection arrays, carbodiimide chemistry was used to immobilize biomarker-specific probes for affinity capture in vivo using a mouse model. However, as the observed capture efficiencies were relatively low, with significant variation across the surface, here we investigated the surface modifications to (a) determine the source of the variability and (b) find ways of improving capture efficiency. We found the protein immobilization step accounted for almost all of the variability in surface uniformity. Varying the protein immobilization conditions following a standard carbodiimide activation process resulted in a reduction in overall variation 14-fold and an increase in captured biomarker amount 18-fold. In conclusion, we found that investigating and optimizing the surface chemistry of microprojection array devices led to drastic improvements in capturing biomarkers from skin fluid.
Ligustrazine phosphate ethosomes for treatment of Alzheimer's disease, in vitro and in animal model studies.	In the present study, we have investigated transdermal administration of ligustrazine phosphate (LP), as an antioxidant, for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The LP transdermal ethosomal system was designed and characterized. Franz-type diffusion cells and confocal laser scanning microscopy were used for the in vitro permeation studies. Furthermore, the effect of LP transdermal ethosomal system on AD was evaluated in the scopolamine-induced amnesia rats by evaluating the behavioral performance in the Morris water maze test. The activities of the antioxidant enzymes and the levels of the lipid peroxidation product malondialdehyde (MDA) in the brain of rats were also determined. The results showed that both the penetration ability and the drug deposition in skin of the LP ethosomal system were significantly higher than the aqueous one. The LP transdermal ethosomal system could recover the activities of the antioxidant enzymes and the levels of MDA in the brain of the amnesic rats to the similar status of the normal rats, which was also indirectly reflected by the improvement in the behavioral performance. In conclusion, LP might offer a potential alternative therapeutic drug in the fight against AD, and ethosomes could be vesicles of choice for transdermal delivery of LP.
Physicochemical performances of indomethacin in cholesteryl cetyl carbonate liquid crystal as a transdermal dosage.	A transdermal formulation of indomethacin (IMC) was developed by incorporation into cholesteryl cetyl carbonate (CCC). The liquid crystalline phase properties of the IMC-CCC mixture were detected by polarized light microscopy and differential scanning calorimetry. A low drug loading was obtained (1-5%) similar to that used in conventional topical IMC in a clinical setting. A controlled release of IMC was found over 12h. A low amount of IMC in 1% IMC-CCC permeated the stratum corneum. Further formulation development has been carried out by the addition of lauryl alcohol into 5% IMC-CCC mixture it was found that the permeation of IMC was significantly improved to 45% within 24h.
Expression of platelet-derived growth factor-B mRNA during vaginal vs. dermal incisional wound healing in the rabbit.	The outcome of pelvic reconstructive surgery is largely dependent on the vaginal wound healing process, but this process has not yet been fully elucidated. Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) is an important mediator of the wound healing process in cutaneous tissue. We sought to compare PDGF-B mRNA expression in vaginal versus cutaneous incisional wound healing in a rabbit model.
Transfollicular enhancement of gel containing cationic niosomes loaded with unsaturated fatty acids in rice (Oryza sativa) bran semi-purified fraction.	The 20mM cationic niosomes composed of Tween61/cholesterol/CTAB at 1:1:0.5M ratio which gave the best physical appearance, particle size, zeta potential and in vitro cytotoxicity were selected from six cationic niosomes prepared from various cationic lipids. The selected cationic niosomes were loaded with the semi-purified fraction 3 of Oryza sativa (OSF3) which gave the highest in vitro 5-reductase inhibition activity. The physicochemical characteristics as well as transfollicular penetration through porcine skin by Franz diffusion cells of gel OSF3 niosomes, OSF3 niosomes, gel OSF3 and OSF3 solution were investigated. Gel containing niosomes loaded with OSF3 exhibited physical stability with 77.68% of gamma-linolenic acid, 85.34% of linoleic acid and 89.47% of oleic acid remaining for 3 months at 25 C. In the skin, the OSF3 niosomes (120.27 ng/cm(2)) and gel OSF3 niosomes (118.17 ng/cm(2)) showed the highest cumulative amounts of the total unsaturated fatty acids (gamma-linolenic acid, linoleic acid and oleic acid) in comparing to those from the gel OSF3 (15.34 ng/cm(2)) and OSF3 solution (20.31 ng/cm(2)) of about 8 and 6 times, respectively. In the receiver compartment, the gel OSF3 niosomes (6.27 ng/cm(2)) exhibited lower cumulative amount of the total unsaturated fatty acids than that of the OSF3 niosomes (11.20 ng/cm(2)) of about 2 times. This study has suggested that gel containing OSF3 loaded in niosomes appeared to be the suitable system for topical anti-androgenic alopecia application because of the convenient use and high transfollicular penetration in the skin, but not in the receiving compartment with the advantage of low systemic effect.
Dermal absorption of finite doses of volatile compounds.	Laplace domain solutions to a previously published finite dose skin diffusion model are presented. The purpose of the current analysis is to derive a simple algebraic expression quantifying the total mass that is systemically absorbed at infinite time after exposure, relative to the applied mass. The resulting expression is a function of two dimensionless parameters: f, the fractional depth within the skin surface through which the permeant is initially deposited, and , the ratio of maximum evaporation flux to maximum dermal flux. The result may be useful for dermal risk assessment as well as in the evaluation of cosmetic and pharmaceutical product performance.
Prediction of concentration-time profile and its inter-individual variability following the dermal drug absorption.	Estimation of systemic exposure after absorption of any xenobiotic from the skin is very important in development of dermal pharmaceutical products as well as assessing un-intended exposures due to cosmetic products or environmental and occupational compounds. Historically, animal models have been used to evaluate dermal drug absorption before conducting human trials. However, occasional disparity between the animal and human data plus rising public interest and regulatory requirements to reduce animal usage in research combined with high cost and time-consuming attributes of animal experiments have prompted many academic and industrial researchers to develop economically viable and scientifically robust in silico and in vitro methods to assess dermal drug absorption. There are a number of in silico models available in literature from quantitative structure-activity relationship to semi-mechanistic to physiologically based mechanistic models. Nonetheless, to the best of our knowledge, so far, there has been no attempt to combine mechanistic skin absorption model with database of physiological variability to simulate the inter- and intra-individual variability observed in human trials. Thus, we report here mechanistic dermal absorption model with formulation, stratum corneum, viable epidermis-dermis and blood compartments along with datab"ase of human dermal physiological variability including gender, ethnic and site of application variations. The developed model is incorporated into the Simcyp simulator which is a 'bottom-up' platform and database for mechanistic modelling and simulation of the drug disposition process using full body physiologically based pharmacokinetics model. The built model is validated using the clinical pharmacokinetic data from five different topical formulations of diclofenac. The effect of penetration enhancers, site of application, gender and ethnic variations were incorporated to simulate the clinical trials. The applied mechanistic dermal absorption model when combined with skin physiological database was able to recover well the observed clinical pharmacokinetics and population variability in all the five validation studies.
Sequestration of MBNL1 in tissues of patients with myotonic dystrophy type 2.	The pathogenesis of myotonic dystrophy type 2 includes the sequestration of MBNL proteins by expanded CCUG transcripts, which leads to an abnormal splicing of their target pre-mRNAs. We have found CCUG(exp) RNA transcripts of the ZNF9 gene associated with the formation of ribonuclear foci in human skeletal muscle and some non-muscle tissues present in muscle biopsies and skin excisions from myotonic dystrophy type 2 patients. Using RNA-FISH and immunofluorescence-FISH methods in combination with a high-resolution confocal microscopy, we demonstrate a different frequency of nuclei containing the CCUG(exp) foci, a different expression pattern of MBNL1 protein and a different sequestration of MBNL1 by CCUG(exp) repeats in skeletal muscle, vascular smooth muscle and endothelia, Schwann cells, adipocytes, and ectodermal derivatives. The level of CCUG(exp) transcription in epidermal and hair sheath cells is lower compared with that in other tissues examined. We suppose that non-muscle tissues of myotonic dystrophy type 2 patients might be affected by a similar molecular mechanism as the skeletal muscle, as suggested by our observation of an aberrant insulin receptor splicing in myotonic dystrophy type 2 adipocytes.
Development of drug delivery systems for the dermal application of therapeutic DNAzymes.	DNAzymes are potent novel drugs for the treatment of inflammatory diseases such as atopic dermatitis. DNAzymes represent a novel class of pharmaceuticals that fulfil a causal therapy by interruption of the inflammation cascade at its origin. There are two challenges regarding the dermal application of DNAzymes: the large molecular weight and the sensitivity to DNases as part of the natural skin flora. To overcome these limitations suitable carrier systems have to be considered. Nano-sized drug carrier systems (submicron emulsions, microemulsions) are known to improve the skin uptake of drugs due to their ability to interact with the skin's lipids. To protect the drug against degradation, the hydrophilic drug may be incorporated into the inner aqueous phase of carrier systems, such as water-in-oil-in-water multiple emulsions. In the present study various emulsions of pharmaceutical grade were produced. Their physicochemical properties were determined and the influence of preservation systems on stability was tested. Drug release and skin uptake studies using various skin conditions and experimental set-ups were conducted. Furthermore, cellular uptake was determined by flow cytometric analysis. The investigations revealed that the developed multiple emulsion is a suitable and promising drug carrier system for the topical application of DNAzyme.
Rheological characterization of a xanthan-galactomannan hydrogel loaded with lipophilic substances.	We compared the structures and rheology of xanthan-galactomannan (X:G) hydrogels with the addition of curcumin in microemulsion (X:GMC) and ethanol (X:GEC). X:GMC hydrogels have gel characteristics and exhibited a significantly higher elastic response than the X:GEC and X:G hydrogels at room temperature, but after heating, an increase in the elastic modulus was observed for the last two systems. The visualization of the hydrogel microstructures by cryo-scanning electronic microscopy revealed pores within the lamellar structure only for X:GMC. In vitro skin permeation tests showed a more pronounced lag time for X:GMC; however, a more efficient permeation from X:GMC than from X:GEC. This study demonstrates that the X:G system is an alternative to traditional gels for the topical applications of hydrophobic drugs.
Nanocarrier-based topical drug delivery for the treatment of skin diseases.	Skin disorders will continue to cause complications in patients. At present, there is an expansion of research into dermatologic treatment due to a critical need for new treatment options to treat skin diseases.
Impaired development of melanoblasts in the black-eyed white Mitf(mi-bw)  mouse, a model for auditory-pigmentary disorders.	Microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (Mitf) is a regulator for differentiation of melanoblasts that are derived from the neural crest. The mouse homozygous for the black-eyed white (Mitf(mi-bw)) allele is characterized by the white coat color and deafness, with black eye that is associated with the lack of melanocytes in skin and inner ear. The Mitf(mi-bw) mutation is an insertion of the LINE1 retrotransposable element into intron 3 of the Mitf gene that causes the selective deficiency of the melanocyte-specific Mitf isoform, Mitf-M. Here, we show the expression of Mitf-M mRNA in the trunk region of the homozygous Mitf(mi-bw)(bw) mouse at embryonic days (E) 11.5 and E12.5, but Mitf-M mRNA is undetectable at E13.5. In addition, using bw mouse that carries the lacZ transgene under the control of a melanoblast-specific promoter, we show that the number of migrating melanoblasts in bw embryos was less than 10% of that in control embryos at E11.5 and E12.5, and melanoblasts disappear by E13.5. The loss of melanoblasts in bw embryos was probably caused by apoptosis. Finally, forced expression of Mitf-M in the cultured neural tube of bw embryos ensured the differentiation of melanoblasts. Therefore, the correct dose of Mitf-M is required for the normal development of melanoblasts.
Transdermal behaviors comparisons among Evodia rutaecarpa extracts with different purity of evodiamine and rutaecarpine and the effect of topical formulation in vivo.	Evodiamine (EVO) and rutaecapine (RUT), the major active components from Evodia rutaecarpa extract (EE), are recognized as a depended analgesic agent. This study was designed to investigate the effect of purity and chemical enhancers on the transdermal behavior of EVO and RUT, and the pharmacological effect of their topical cream in vivo.
Propylene glycol liposomes as a topical delivery system for miconazole nitrate: comparison with conventional liposomes.	Propylene glycol (PG)-phospholipid vesicles have been advocated as flexible lipid vesicles for enhanced skin delivery of drugs. To further characterize the performance of these vesicles and to address some relevant pharmaceutical issues, miconazole nitrate(MN)-loaded PG nanoliposomes were prepared and characterized for vesicle size, entrapment efficiency, in vitro release, and vesicle stability. An issue of pharmaceutical importance is the time-dependent, dilution-driven diffusion of propylene glycol out of the vesicles. This was addressed by assessing propylene glycol using gas chromatography in the separated vesicles and monitoring its buildup in the medium after repeated dispersion of separated vesicles in fresh medium. Further, the antifungal activity of liposomal formulations under study was assessed using Candida albicans, and their in vitro skin permeation and retention were studied using human skin. At all instances, blank and drug-loaded conventional liposomes were included for comparison. The results provided evidence of controlled MN delivery, constant percent PG uptake in the vesicles (45.5%) in the PG concentration range 2.5 to 10%, improved vesicle stability, and enhanced skin deposition of MN with minimum skin permeation. These are key issues for different formulation and performance aspects of propylene glycol-phospholipid vesicles.
Expression profile of genes associated with the dopamine pathway in vitiligo skin biopsies and blood sera.	Dopamine has been proven to be toxic for melanocytes. In vitiligo patients the level of dopamine is increased and the functioning of several enzymes participating in the dopamine pathway is changed.
The identification of a new role for LEKTI in the skin: The use of protein 'bait' arrays to detect defective trafficking of dermcidin in the skin of patients with Netherton syndrome.	Lympho-Epithelial Kazal-Type-related Inhibitor (LEKTI) has been demonstrated to be an inhibitor of various kallikreins and is thought to play a role in the regulation of skin desquamation. In order to identify and investigate the potential of LEKTI to interact with other proteins, a method was developed using immobilised proteins onto arrays and nanoUPLC/MALDI-TOF MS. Using various domains of LEKTI, we demonstrated that these domains bound a number of kallikreins (5, 13 and 14) to varied extents on the array surface. Inhibitory assays confirmed that binding on the protein array surface corresponded directly to levels of inhibition. The method was then tested using skin epidermal extracts. All forms of rLEKTI with the exception of rLEKTI 12-15, demonstrated the binding of several potential candidate proteins. Surprisingly, the major binding partners of LEKTI were found to be the antimicrobial peptide dermcidin and the serine protease cathepsin G and no kallikreins. Using confocal microscopy and Netherton syndrome skin sections, we confirmed the co-localisation of LEKTI with dermcidin and demonstrated altered trafficking of dermcidin in these patients. This potential new role for LEKTI as a multifunctional protein in the protection and transport of proteins in the epidermis and its role in disease are discussed.
Gene expression in skin, muscle, and dorsal root ganglion after plantar incision in the rat.	Treating postoperative pain remains a significant challenge for perioperative medicine. Recent studies have shown that nerve growth factor is up-regulated and contributes to incisional pain. To date, few studies have examined expression of other neurotrophin-related mediators that may contribute to the development and/or maintenance of incisional pain.
CD158k/KIR3DL2 and NKp46 are frequently expressed in transformed mycosis fungoides.	Malignant Sezary cells express the natural killer (NK) receptors KIR3DL2 (CD158k) and Nkp46 and may co-express activating killer immunoglobulin-like receptors (KIR) that may participate to neoplastic T-cell activation through the JNK pathway. Little is known regarding NK receptor expression in other cutaneous T-cell lymphomas. We studied the expression of KIR and natural cytotoxicity receptor (NCR) transcripts, and KIR3DL1/2 at the protein level, in 16 skin biopsies from 10 patients with transformed mycosis fungoides (tMF). Some KIR and NCR transcripts were found in all cases, with various repertoires. Two to nine different KIR receptors were expressed in a single biopsy. Among them, KIR3DL2 was the most frequent, with the highest level of expression in quantitative analyses and correlated with in situ protein expression, while phosphorylated JNK was never detected. Among NCR, NKp46 was expressed in all investigated cases. The role of KIR3DL2 and NKp46 in tMF oncogenesis remains to be studied.
Myo/Nog cells in normal, wounded and tumor-bearing skin.	Murine and human skin were examined for the presence of Myo/Nog cells that were originally discovered in the chick embryo by their expression of MyoD mRNA, noggin and the G8 antigen. Myo/Nog cells are the primary source of noggin in telogen hair follicles. They are scarce within the interfollicular dermis and absent in the epidermis. Within 24h following epidermal abrasion, Myo/Nog cells increase in number in the follicles and appear in the wound. Myo/Nog cells are also recruited to the stroma of tumors formed from v-Ras-transformed keratinocytes (Ker/Ras). Human squamous cell carcinomas and malignant melanomas contain significantly more Myo/Nog cells than basal cell carcinomas. Myo/Nog cells are distinct from macrophages, granulocytes and cells expressing alpha smooth muscle actin in the tumor stroma. Myo/Nog cells may be modulators of skin homoeostasis and wound healing, and potential diagnostic and therapeutic targets in skin cancer.
Gold nanorods in an oil-base formulation for transdermal treatment of type 1 diabetes in mice.	Efficient transdermal insulin delivery to the systemic circulation would bring major benefit to diabetic patients. We investigated the possibility of using gold nanorods (GNRs) that formed a complex with an edible surfactant and insulin (INS) in an oil phase to form a solid-in-oil (SO) formulation (SO-INS-GNR) for transdermal treatment of diabetes. Diabetic mice comprised the model for our study. In vitro, there was high penetration of insulin through the stratum corneum (SC) and the dermis in mouse skin treated with an SO-INS-GNR complex plus near-infrared (NIR) light irradiation. Blood glucose levels in the diabetic mice were significantly decreased after treatment with SO-INS-GNR plus irradiation. To our knowledge, this is the first study to use gold nanorods for systemic insulin delivery through the skin. The use of an SO-INS-GNR complex combined with NIR irradiation may provide the possibility of transdermal insulin delivery to diabetic patients.
Dual infection and superinfection inhibition of epithelial skin cells by two alphaherpesviruses co-occur in the natural host.	Hosts can be infected with multiple herpesviruses, known as superinfection; however, superinfection of cells is rare due to the phenomenon known as superinfection inhibition. It is believed that dual infection of cells occurs in nature, based on studies examining genetic exchange between homologous alphaherpesviruses in the host, but to date, this has not been directly shown in a natural model. In this report, gallid herpesvirus 2 (GaHV-2), better known as Marek's disease virus (MDV), was used in its natural host, the chicken, to determine whether two homologous alphaherpesviruses can infect the same cells in vivo. MDV shares close similarities with the human alphaherpesvirus, varicella zoster virus (VZV), with respect to replication in the skin and exit from the host. Recombinant MDVs were generated that express either the enhanced GFP (eGFP) or monomeric RFP (mRFP) fused to the UL47 (VP13/14) herpesvirus tegument protein. These viruses exhibited no alteration in pathogenic potential and expressed abundant UL47-eGFP or -mRFP in feather follicle epithelial cells in vivo. Using laser scanning confocal microscopy, it was evident that these two similar, but distinguishable, viruses were able to replicate within the same cells of their natural host. Evidence of superinfection inhibition was also observed. These results have important implications for two reasons. First, these results show that during natural infection, both dual infection of cells and superinfection inhibition can co-occur at the cellular level. Secondly, vaccination against MDV with homologous alphaherpesvirus like attenuated GaHV-2, or non-oncogenic GaHV-3 or meleagrid herpesvirus (MeHV-1) has driven the virus to greater virulence and these results implicate the potential for genetic exchange between homologous avian alphaherpesviruses that could drive increased virulence. Because the live attenuated varicella vaccine is currently being administered to children, who in turn could be superinfected by wild-type VZV, this could potentiate recombination events of VZV as well.
In vivo iontophoretic delivery of salmon calcitonin across microporated skin.	The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of microneedle (MN) technology and its combination with iontophoresis (ITP) on the in vivo transdermal delivery of salmon calcitonin (sCT). Maltose MNs (500 m) were used to porate skin prior to application of the drug, with or without ITP. Micropores created by maltose MNs were characterized by histological sectioning and calcein imaging studies, which indicated uniformity of the created micropores. In vivo studies were performed in hairless rats to assess the degree of enhancement achieved by ITP (0.2 mA/cm for 1 h), MNs (81 MNs), and their combination. In vivo studies indicate a serum maximal concentration of 0.61  0.42 ng/mL, 1.79  0.72 ng/mL, and 5.51  0.32 ng/mL for ITP, MNs, and combination treatment, respectively. MN treatment alone increased serum concentration 2.5-fold and the combination treatment increased the concentration ninefold as compared with iontophoretic treatment alone. Combination treatment of ITP and MNs resulted in the highest delivery of sCT and therapeutic levels were achieved within 5 min of administration.
Mesoderm-derived stem cells: the link between the transcriptome and their differentiation potential.	Human adult stem cells (hASCs) have become an attractive source for autologous cell transplantation, tissue engineering, developmental biology, and the generation of human-based alternative in vitro models. Among the 3 germ cell layers, the mesoderm is the origin of today's most widely used and characterized hASC populations. A variety of isolated nonhematopoietic mesoderm-derived stem cell populations exist, and all of them show important differences in terms of function, efficacy, and differentiation potential both in vivo and in vitro. To better understand whether the intrinsic properties of these cells contribute to the overall differentiation potential of hASCs, we compared the global gene expression profiles of 4 mesoderm-derived stem cell populations: human adipose tissue-derived stromal cells, human bone marrow-derived stromal cells (hBMSCs), human (fore)skin-derived precursor cells (hSKPs), and human Wharton's jelly-derived mesenchymal stem cells (hWJs). Significant differences in gene expression profiles were detected between distinct stem cell types. hSKPs predominantly expressed genes involved in neurogenesis, skin, and bone development, whereas hWJs and, to some extent, hBMSCs showed an increased expression of genes involved in cardiovascular and liver development. Interestingly, the observed differential gene expression of distinct hASCs could be linked to existing differentiation data in which hASCs were differentiated toward specific cell types. As such, our data suggest that the intrinsic gene expression of the undifferentiated stem cells has an important impact on their overall differentiation potential as well as their application in stem cell-based research. Yet, the factors that define these intrinsic properties remain to be determined.
Safety assessment by multiphoton fluorescence/second harmonic generation/hyper-Rayleigh scattering tomography of ZnO nanoparticles used in cosmetic products.	Zinc oxide nanoparticles (ZnO NPs) are commonly used as UV filters in commercial sunscreen products. Their penetration into the skin is intensively discussed in the literature. In the present in vivo study, penetration of ZnO NPs (30 nm in size) into human skin was investigated by multiphoton tomography. Based on the non-linear effects of a second harmonic generation and hyper-Rayleigh scattering, the distribution of ZnO NPs in the horny layers of the epidermis, as well as the furrows, wrinkles and orifice of the hair follicles was analyzed. This method permitted distinguishing between the particulate and dissolved forms of Zn. A detection limit of 0.08 fg/m(3) was estimated. Taking advantage of this sensitivity, it was clearly shown that ZnO NPs penetrate only into the outermost layers of stratum corneum, furrows and into the orifices of the hair follicles and do not reach the viable epidermis.
In silico prediction of dermal penetration rate of chemicals from their molecular structural descriptors.	The dermal penetration rate of some volatile and non-volatile organic compounds was estimated by quantitative structure-activity relationship approaches by using interpretable molecular descriptors. Linear and nonlinear models were developed using multiple linear regressions (MLR) and artificial neural network (ANN) methods. Robustness and reliability of the constructed MLR and ANN models were evaluated by using the leave-one-out cross-validation method, which produces the statistics of Q(MLR)(2)=0.786, Q( ANN)(2)=0.833 for non-volatiles and Q(MLR)(2)=0.639, Q( ANN)(2)=0.712 for volatile compounds. Furthermore, the chemical applicability domains of these models were determined via leverage approach. The results of this study indicated the ability of developed QSAR models in the prediction of dermal penetration rate of various chemicals from their calculated molecular descriptors.
Cloning and expression in follicle anagen of ILK gene in sheep]	Integrin linked kinase (ILK) is a scaffold protein, which plays important roles in hair follicle development. The cDNA sequence of novel ILK gene in sheep was cloned by PCR method and analyzed by bioinformatics. Tissue expression profiling in eight tissues and temporal profiling at different wool follicle anagen stages in skin was analyzed. The results showed that the whole open reading frame (ORF) of ILK gene was 1 359 bp in length, which encoded 452 amino acids. Bioinformatic analysis indicated that the secondary structure of ILK gene was mainly made up of three ankyrin repeats and a kinase domain, and there were multiple phosphorylation and Protein Kinase C sites in this gene. The RT-PCR result confirmed that ILK mRNA was expressed in heart, liver, spleen, lung, skeletal muscle, skin, and small intestine, and the expression level was much higher in skin, spleen, and liver than others. The q-PCR analysis demonstrated that the ex-pression level of ILK was significantly increased from March to May (early follicle anagen initiation) in both sheep breeds, Chinese Merino and Kazakh sheep, and there were certain differences from June to October between the two breeds. The above results indicated that ILK gene may play key roles in regulating secondary follicle growth.
Induction of antimicrobial peptides from  Rana dybowskii  under Rana grylio virus stress, and bioactivity analysis.	The skin glands of Ranidae are a rich source of antimicrobial peptides. In this study, the genomic RNA of Rana dybowskii was extracted from its skin while under Rana grylio virus stress. Five new cDNA sequences encoding 5 mature peptides, Ranatuerin-2YJ (GLMDIFKVAVNKLLAAGMNKPRCKAAHC), Dybowskin-YJb (IIPLPLGYFAKKP), Dybowskin-YJa (IIPLPLGYFAKKKKKKDPVPLDQ), Temperin-YJa (VLPLLETCSMTCWENNQTFGK), and Temperin-YJb (VLPLVGNLLNDLLGK), were obtained by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction with a pair of degenerate primers designed according to the conserved terminal sequences of cDNA encoding antimicrobial peptide precursors of genus Rana. The antimicrobial activities of the peptides were analyzed, and the results demonstrated that all these peptides showed a significant anti-Rana grylio virus activity, and the virus was gradually cleared with the increase in gene expression. Among the 5 peptides obtained in this work, Ranatuerin-2YJ also showed a broad-spectrum anti-Gram-positive bacteria and anti-Gram-negative bacteria activity with a minimal inhibitory concentration of 22.5 g/mL and 7.64% hemolysis activity, both of which were significantly lower (p < 0.05) than that of the other peptides. Moreover, Ranatuerin-2YJ was widely distributed in the skin, liver, spleen, and blood of R. dybowskii, while the other 4 peptides could only be cloned from the skin, indicating that the Ranatuerin-2YJ in vivo plays an important role in the protection against pathogen invasion.
Claudin-5 haploinsufficiency exacerbates UVB-induced oedema formation by inducing lymphatic vessel leakage.	Acute exposure of skin to ultraviolet (UV) B irradiation (290-320 nm) leads to epidermal hyperplasia, erythema and oedema formation. We have elucidated that UV irradiation induced the leakiness of cutaneous lymphatic vessels. Although these studies indicated a crucial role of the lymphatic integrity in skin inflammation, the mechanisms underlying its disruption by UVB exposure remain unknown. Here we demonstrated that a vascular-specific tight junction molecule, claudin-5 has an important role in lymphatics and skin inflammation. Claudin-5(+/-) mice, whose claudin-5 expression was greatly downregulated in skin, exacerbates oedema formation and inflammation by a low dose of UVB irradiation. Lymphatic vessels of claudin-5(+/-) mice were markedly enlarged and leaky after low-dose UVB exposure, compared with those of wild-type mice, while the morphology of blood vessels were not different between groups. These results suggest that claudin-5 in the lymphatic tight junction maintains lymphatic integrity and plays a protective role in skin inflammation.
A cell cycle role for the epigenetic factor CTCF-L/BORIS.	CTCF is a ubiquitous epigenetic regulator that has been proposed as a master keeper of chromatin organisation. CTCF-like, or BORIS, is thought to antagonise CTCF and has been found in normal testis, ovary and a large variety of tumour cells. The cellular function of BORIS remains intriguing although it might be involved in developmental reprogramming of gene expression patterns. We here unravel the expression of CTCF and BORIS proteins throughout human epidermis. While CTCF is widely distributed within the nucleus, BORIS is confined to the nucleolus and other euchromatin domains. Nascent RNA experiments in primary keratinocytes revealed that endogenous BORIS is present in active transcription sites. Interestingly, BORIS also localises to interphase centrosomes suggesting a role in the cell cycle. Blocking the cell cycle at S phase or mitosis, or causing DNA damage, produced a striking accumulation of BORIS. Consistently, ectopic expression of wild type or GFP- BORIS provoked a higher rate of S phase cells as well as genomic instability by mitosis failure. Furthermore, down-regulation of endogenous BORIS by specific shRNAs inhibited both RNA transcription and cell cycle progression. The results altogether suggest a role for BORIS in coordinating S phase events with mitosis.
Effects of penetration enhancers on curcumin transdermal drug delivery]	To study the effects of penetration enhancers and their combinations on the curcumine transdermal drug delivery (CUR-TDDS).
Age-related percutaneous penetration part 2: effect of age on dermatopharmacokinetics and overview of transdermal products.	Transdermal drug delivery allows for a constant rate of drug administration and prolonged action, which can be beneficial to elderly patients who are often polymedicated. Several studies have compared dermatopharmacokinetics in the young and elderly with conflicting results. Despite the potential limitations of age-related changes in skin factors and cutaneous metabolism, marketed transdermal products generally do not report age-related differences in pharmacokinetics. This overview discusses the current data, summarizes marketed product findings and highlights the importance of further studies to evaluate age-related dermatopharmacokinetics.
Cannabinoid receptor type 1 and 2 expression in the skin of healthy dogs and dogs with atopic dermatitis.	To determine the distribution of cannabinoid receptor type 1 (CB1) and cannabinoid receptor type 2 (CB2) in skin (including hair follicles and sweat and sebaceous glands) of clinically normal dogs and dogs with atopic dermatitis (AD) and to compare results with those for positive control samples for CB1 (hippocampus) and CB2 (lymph nodes).
A comprehensive re-analysis of pesticide dermal toxicity data in birds and comparison with the rat.	Dermal exposure is not considered in the routine assessment of pesticide risk to birds but is known to be important. There is no routine testing of pesticide dermal toxicity in birds necessitating that we make better use of information currently collected on mammalian species. This paper assembles and analyses all known avian dermal toxicity data for pesticides. The analysis relies on deriving a Dermal Toxicity Index (DTI) or a ratio of oral to dermal toxicity for each test result. In this paper, I show that: (1) DTI values are chemical specific and apply to any bird; (2) that the site of testing appears to matter more than the exact method of testing; (3) that the avian DTI does indeed track the rat DTI very well for those compounds that do not need metabolic activation to express their toxicity. Mammalian skin penetration data can be used to infer avian risk.
Skin decontamination: principles and perspectives.	Skin decontamination is the primary intervention needed in chemical, biological and radiological exposures, involving immediate removal of the contaminant from the skin performed in the most efficient way. The most readily available decontamination system on a practical basis is washing with soap and water or water only. Timely use of flushing with copious amounts of water may physically remove the contaminant. However, this traditional method may not be completely effective, and contaminants left on the skin after traditional washing procedures can have toxic consequences. This article focuses on the principles and practices of skin decontamination. 
Optimization of perfusate pH to improve microdialysis recovery of lipophilic compounds.	Microdialysis (MD) allows sampling of compounds in-vivo from tissues' interstitial fluid. However, molecules insoluble at physiological pH have usually extremely low recovery. The addition of albumin to the perfusate or the use of isotonic lipoemulsion improves recovery of these molecules although it requires a cleaning step before HPLC analysis. This study investigates the possibility of improving the MD recovery of compounds insoluble at physiological pH but soluble at a different pH. The probe is perfused with an isotonic solution adjusted to pH values at which the compound has maximum solubility. Ketoconazole (KTC), clotrimazole (CLT) and tretinoin (TTN) were selected as model drugs because they are almost insoluble at pH 7.4 but soluble at pH 4 for KTC and CTL; and at pH 9 for TTN.
Regeneration of mature dermis by transplanted particulate acellular dermal matrix in a rat model of skin defect wound.	Native mammalian extracellular matrix (ECM) has been made in various forms including particles, sheet and mesh which are appropriate for site-specific applications. The ECM particles are usually created by homogenization method and have a wider size distribution. This needs to be improved to produce more uniform ECM particles. In present study, we had successfully developed a method for preparing particulate acellular dermal matrix (PADM) in different gauges. The resultant PADM was approaching a rectangular parallelepiped or cubic shape, with a better or narrower size distribution than other ECM particles in previous reports. It also retained ultrastructure and functional molecules of native ECM. In vivo performances were evaluated after implantation of PADM in an acute full-thickness skin defect wound in rats. Histological analysis showed that allogeneic PADM used as dermal regeneration template could facilitate maturation and improving collagen bundle structure of regenerated dermis at the endpoint of 20 weeks post-surgery. The PADM could be used for further investigation in analyzing the impacts of cellularly and/or molecularly modified PADM on soft tissue regeneration.
Permeation of indomethacin from semisolid preparations through various semipermeable membranes.	The aim of this study was to evaluate and compare the permeation of model drug indomethacin (IND) from various types of gels through several semipermeable membranes.
Epidermal growth factor receptor activation and inhibition in 3D in vitro models of normal skin and human cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma.	The transmembrane tyrosine kinase epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is considered a key player in the development of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), which is the second most common malignancy in white populations. Inhibition of EGFR with the small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor erlotinib is currently under clinical investigation in cutaneous SCC patients. In this study, we investigated the effects of EGFR activation and inhibition on normal and malignant in vitro human skin equivalents (HSEs). In healthy HSEs, increasing EGF concentrations ranging from 5 to 50 ng/mL resulted in a dramatic decrease in epidermal proliferation as immunohistochemically assessed by Ki67 and increased epidermal stress as assessed by K17 after 2 weeks of air-exposed culture. Also, higher concentrations of EGF induced remarkable epidermal disorganization with loss of proper stratification. Similar effects were observed in HSEs generated with cutaneous SCC cell lines SCC-12B2 and SCC-13. Treatment of both healthy and SCC-HSEs with 10 M erlotinib resulted in efficient reduction of epidermal thickness from 10 to 3 viable cell layers and counteracted EGF-induced epidermal stress. Remarkably, erlotinib treatment caused severe desquamation in healthy HSEs, reminiscent of xerosis as a known side-effect in patients treated with erlotinib. The presented three-dimensional organotypic SCC models appear suitable for further investigations on the morphological and functional impacts of modifying EGFR signaling in cutaneous SCC, without burdening patients or mice. The effective inhibition of epidermal growth by erlotinib in our HSEs confirms the therapeutic potential of this tyrosine kinase inhibitor for cutaneous SCC patients.
Effects of C-Phycocyanin on the representative genes of tumor development in mouse skin exposed to 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate.	C-Phycocyanin (C-PC), a biliprotein from the sea weed, has been shown to have the beneficial effects like antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, neuroprotective, and hepatoprotective properties and is used as food supplement. We are showing the effect of C-Phycocyanin on the early events altered by tumor promoter. TPA induced the expression of critical events of tumorigenesis like ornithine decarboxylase, cyclooxygenase-2, interleukin-6 and pSTAT3 in mouse skin after 5h of application, whereas expression of transglutaminase2 was decreased at this time point. This TPA-caused altered expression of genes was prevented in presence of C-Phycocyanin. This prevention by C-Phycocyanin appeared to be dependent on the dose of C-Phycocyanin used. The results are useful for the detailed study on the preventive effect of C-Phycocyanin on TPA induced tumor promotion.
Epidermotropic secondary cutaneous involvement by relapsed angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma mimicking mycosis fungoides: a case report.	Angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma (AITL) is frequently associated with skin lesions, but epidermotropic cutaneous involvement has never been described. A 37-year-old man presented with erythematous and pruriginous plaques, clinically suggestive of mycosis fungoides, distributed all over the body, 3weeks after the last line of a polychemotherapy, given for an AITL diagnosed 1year earlier on a lymph node biopsy. Skin biopsy showed an epidermotropic CD4(+)  T-cell lymphoma, so that a diagnosis of mycosis fungoides was first proposed. Further investigations showed that atypical lymphocytes strongly expressed CD10 and markers of follicular helper T cells (T(FH) ) including PD1, BCL-6 and CXCL13. The diagnosis of an unusual epidermotropic cutaneous localization of the AITL was finally made, supported by the presence of the same T-cell clone in the initial lymph node biopsy and the skin. We therefore recommend performing markers of T(FH)  cells in patients with unusual epidermotropic cutaneous T-cell lymphomas, particularly if they have any clinical features suggestive of AITL.
Gelatin nanoparticles loaded poly(-caprolactone) nanofibrous semi-synthetic scaffolds for bone tissue engineering.	Nanofibrous semi-synthetic polymeric nanocomposite scaffolds were engineered by incorporating a maximum of 15 wt% biopolymeric gelatin nanoparticles (nGs) into the synthetic polymer poly(-caprolactone) (PCL) prior to electrospinning. The effect of nGs in altering the physico-chemical properties, cell material interaction and biodegradability of the scaffolds was evaluated. Experimental results showed that the inherent hydrophobicity of PCL scaffolds remained unaltered even after the incorporation of hydrophilic nGs. However, breakdown of the continuous nanofibers into lengths less than 7 m occurred within four to eight weeks in the presence of nGs in contrast with the greater than two year time frame for the degradation of PCL fibers alone that is known from the literature. In terms of cell-material interaction, human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) were found to attach and spread better and faster on PCL_nG scaffolds compared to PCL scaffolds. However, there was no difference in hMSC proliferation and differentiation into osteogenic lineage between the scaffolds. These results indicate that PCL_nG nanofibrous nanocomposite scaffolds are an improvement over PCL scaffolds for bone tissue engineering applications in that the PCL_nG scaffolds provide improved cell interaction and are able to degrade and resorb more efficiently.
Induction of apoptosis by fractional CO2 laser treatment.	Fractional CO2-laser is considered a preferential method for skin resurfacing, but little is known about the molecular mechanisms underlying this surgical tool. In the present study, we investigated the possible role of apoptosis by the sequential analysis of lesional skin after laser treatment, with special attention to power. Moreover, we have analyzed if there is a correlation with clinical improvement.
Formulation of niosomal gel for enhanced transdermal lopinavir delivery and its comparative evaluation with ethosomal gel.	The aim was to develop niosomal gel as a transdermal nanocarrier for improved systemic availability of lopinavir. Niosomes were prepared using thin-film hydration method and optimized for molar quantities of Span 40 and cholesterol to impart desirable characteristics. Comparative evaluation with ethosomes was performed using ex vivo skin permeation, fluorescence microscopy, and histopathology studies. Clinical utility via transdermal route was acknowledged using in vivo bioavailability study in male Wistar rats. The niosomal formulation containing lopinavir, Span 40, and cholesterol in a molar ratio of 1:0.9:0.6 possessed optimally high percentage of drug entrapment with minimum mean vesicular diameter. Ex vivo skin permeation studies of lopinavir as well as fluorescent probe coumarin revealed a better deposition of ethosomal carriers but a better release with niosomal carriers. Histopathological studies indicated the better safety profile of niosomes over ethosomes. In vivo bioavailability study in male Wistar rats showed a significantly higher extent of absorption (AUC(0), 72.87hg/ml) of lopinavir via transdermally applied niosomal gel as compared with its oral suspension. Taken together, these findings suggested that niosomal gel holds a great potential of being utilized as novel, nanosized drug delivery vehicle for transdermal lopinavir delivery.
Advanced glycation end products, measured as skin autofluorescence, during normal pregnancy and pregnancy complicated by diabetes mellitus.	Advanced glycation end products (AGEs) accumulate with age and in diabetes mellitus (DM). AGEs can be measured by the AGE Reader (DiagnOptics Technologies BV, Groningen, The Netherlands) using skin autofluorescence (SAF). SAF is related to chronic diabetes complications. In a previous study we reported that SAF is comparable in patients with gestational DM (GDM) and controls at 27 weeks of gestation. In the current study we investigated SAF at multiple time points during pregnancy in pregnancies complicated by DM (type 1 or type 2) or GDM and in controls. Furthermore, the relation between SAF levels and adverse pregnancy outcomes was investigated.
Cancer susceptibility and embryonic lethality in Mob1a/1b double-mutant mice.	Mps one binder 1a (MOB1A) and MOB1B are key components of the Hippo signaling pathway and are mutated or inactivated in many human cancers. Here we show that intact Mob1a or Mob1b is essential for murine embryogenesis and that loss of the remaining WT Mob1 allele in Mob1a(/)1b(tr/+) or Mob1a(/+)1b(tr/tr) mice results in tumor development. Because most of these cancers resembled trichilemmal carcinomas, we generated double-mutant mice bearing tamoxifen-inducible, keratinocyte-specific homozygous-null mutations of Mob1a and Mob1b (kDKO mice). kDKO mice showed hyperplastic keratinocyte progenitors and defective keratinocyte terminal differentiation and soon died of malnutrition. kDKO keratinocytes exhibited hyperproliferation, apoptotic resistance, impaired contact inhibition, enhanced progenitor self renewal, and increased centrosomes. Examination of Hippo pathway signaling in kDKO keratinocytes revealed that loss of Mob1a/b altered the activities of the downstream Hippo mediators LATS and YAP1. Similarly, YAP1 was activated in some human trichilemmal carcinomas, and some of these also exhibited MOB1A/1B inactivation. Our results clearly demonstrate that MOB1A and MOB1B have overlapping functions in skin homeostasis, and exert their roles as tumor suppressors by regulating downstream elements of the Hippo pathway.
Substrate-specific gene expression in Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis, the chytrid pathogen of amphibians.	Determining the mechanisms of host-pathogen interaction is critical for understanding and mitigating infectious disease. Mechanisms of fungal pathogenicity are of particular interest given the recent outbreaks of fungal diseases in wildlife populations. Our study focuses on Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd), the chytrid pathogen responsible for amphibian declines around the world. Previous studies have hypothesized a role for several specific families of secreted proteases as pathogenicity factors in Bd, but the expression of these genes has only been evaluated in laboratory growth conditions. Here we conduct a genome-wide study of Bd gene expression under two different nutrient conditions. We compare Bd gene expression profiles in standard laboratory growth media and in pulverized host tissue (i.e., frog skin). A large proportion of genes in the Bd genome show increased expression when grown in host tissue, indicating the importance of studying pathogens on host substrate. A number of gene classes show particularly high levels of expression in host tissue, including three families of secreted proteases (metallo-, serine- and aspartyl-proteases), adhesion genes, lipase-3 encoding genes, and a group of phylogenetically unusual crinkler-like effectors. We discuss the roles of these different genes as putative pathogenicity factors and discuss what they can teach us about Bd's metabolic targets, host invasion, and pathogenesis.
MicroRNA-203 contributes to skin re-epithelialization.	Keratinocyte proliferation and migration are crucial steps for the rapid closure of the epidermis during wound healing, but the molecular mechanisms involved in this cellular response remain to be completely elucidated. Here, by in situ hybridization we characterize the expression pattern of miR-203 after the induction of wound in mouse epidermis, showing that its expression is downregulated in the highly proliferating keratinocytes of the 'migrating tongue', whereas it is strongly expressed in the differentiating cells of the skin outside the wound. Furthermore, subcutaneous injections of antagomiR-203 in new born mice dorsal skin strengthened, in vivo, the inverse correlation between miR-203 expression and two new target mRNAs: RAN and RAPH1. Our data suggest that miR-203, by controlling the expression of target proteins that are responsible for both keratinocyte proliferation and migration, exerts a specific role in wound re-epithelialization and epidermal homeostasis re-establishment of injured skin.
Specific absorption spectra of hemoglobin at different PO2 levels: potential noninvasive method to detect PO2 in tissues.	Hemoglobin (Hb), as one of main components of blood, has a unique quaternary structure. Its release of oxygen is controlled by oxygen partial pressure (PO2). We investigate the specific spectroscopic changes in Hb under different PO2 levels to optimize clinical methods of measuring tissue PO2. The transmissivity of Hb under different PO2 levels is measured with a UV/Vis fiber optic spectrometer. Its plotted absorption spectral curve shows two high absorption peaks at 540 and 576 nm and an absorption valley at 560 nm when PO2 is higher than 100 mm Hg. The two high absorption peaks decrease gradually with a decrease in PO2, whereas the absorption valley at 560 nm increases. When PO2 decreases to approximately 0 mm Hg, the two high absorption peaks disappear completely, while the absorption valley has a hypochromic shift (8 to 10 nm) and forms a specific high absorption peak at approximately 550 nm. The same phenomena can be observed in visible reflectance spectra of finger-tip microcirculation. Specific changes in extinction coefficient and absorption spectra of Hb occur along with variations in PO2, which could be used to explain pathological changes caused by tissue hypoxia and for early detection of oxygen deficiency diseases in clinical monitoring.
Investigations into certain mechanisms of antinociceptive action of millimeter wavelengths]	Changes in skin susceptibility and afferent pulsation frequency were measured in n. saphenous of rats undergoing the action of ultrahigh frequency electromagnetic radiation (UHF EMR). The study was aimed at verifying the hypothesis of the involvement of interleukine-6 (L-6) and endocannabinoids in the realization of the antinociceptive effect of UHF EMR. It was shown that UHF EMR with a wavelength of 7.1 mm lowers tactile, temperature, and pain sensitivity of the skin. This change was shown to correlate with the decreased electrical activity of afferent conductors of n. saphenous. Moreover, the IL-6 level in rat blood sera increased within 10 minutes after the irradiation both in the case of LPS-induced polyphasic fever in intact animals and under the normal conditions. This finding can possibly point out to the participation of this cytokine in the mechanisms of the antinociceptive effect especially in the case of pain of inflammatory origin. The data obtained give evidence that UHF EMR and anandamide exert a synergistic effect which confirms the involvement of the endocannabinoid system in the mechanisms of the antinociceptive action of the physical factor under consideration.
Construction on the chitosan microparticles of baicalin and comparison of transdermal diffusion in vitro of baicalin in chitosan microparticles and cream]	To construct baicalin chitosan microparticles and compare the in vitro transdermal diffusion of baicalin in microparticles and cream.
Study on stability and cutaneous permeation kinetics in vitro of positive-ionized liposome gel containing paeonol]	To prepare positive-ionized liposome gel containing paeonol and study its stability and cutaneous permeation kinetics in vitro.
Vascular endothelial growth factor production is induced by histone deacetylase 1 and suppressed by von Hippel-Lindau protein in HaCaT cells.	In hypoxic tumoral tissues, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression is positively regulated by histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) and negatively regulated by the tumour suppressor protein von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) via transforming growth factor-alpha (HIF-1alpha). It has been reported that VEGF, HDAC1 and LL-37, but not VHL, are over-expressed in psoriatic skin. Although HIF-1alpha is constitutively expressed in normal keratinocytes, it is not known if HDAC1 and VHL can regulate VEGF production in these cells.
Ultraweak photon emission induced by visible light and ultraviolet A radiation via photoactivated skin chromophores: in vivo charge coupled device imaging.	Solar radiation that reaches Earth's surface can have severe negative consequences for organisms. Both visible light and ultraviolet A (UVA) radiation are known to initiate the formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in human skin by photosensitization reactions (types I and II). In the present study, we investigated the role of visible light and UVA radiation in the generation of ROS on the dorsal and the palmar side of a hand. The ROS are known to oxidize biomolecules such as lipids, proteins, and nucleic acids to form electronically excited species, finally leading to ultraweak photon emission. We have employed a highly sensitive charge coupled device camera and a low-noise photomultiplier tube for detection of two-dimensional and one-dimensional ultraweak photon emission, respectively. Our experimental results show that oxidative stress is generated by the exposure of human skin to visible light and UVA radiation. The oxidative stress generated by UVA radiation is claimed to be significantly higher than that by visible light. Two-dimensional photon imaging can serve as a potential tool for monitoring the oxidative stress in the human skin induced by various stress factors irrespective of its physical or chemical nature.
Spontaneous melanotic lesions in axillary seabream, Pagellus acarne (Risso).	In this article, we describe spontaneous melanotic lesions in the skin of axillary seabream, Pagellus acarne (Risso), from a defined area of the Portuguese Coast, located in Cabo da Roca and Foz do Arelho. The lesions corresponded to the black pigmentation spots on the skin of the head, fins, lips and conjunctiva and, additionally, black nodules on the skin of the head and lips. In some specimens, the nodular formations in the head changed their anatomical conformation. Histologically, there were melanophores scattered along the basement membrane or forming aggregates in the dermis, infiltrating the subcutaneous tissue but not invading the adjacent muscle tissue. The aim of this study was to characterize the macroscopic and microscopic features of the pigmented lesions. These fish show sessile hyperpigmented lesions (spots) that correspond to proliferative lesions of melanophores in the dermis and nodular lesions that correspond to neoplastic lesions, melanophoromas. The melanophores in such lesions showed high concentration of melanin in the cytoplasm, moderate pleomorphism and compact distribution throughout all of the dermis. 
A profibrotic role for thymic stromal lymphopoietin in systemic sclerosis.	[corrected] Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is an autoimmune disease characterised by progressive fibrosis. Although SSc shares pathogenetic features with other autoimmune diseases, the participation of profibrotic Th2 cytokines is unique to SSc, but the mechanisms of Th2 skewing are unknown. We have analysed the expression and function of thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP), a central regulator of Th2-mediated allergic inflammation, in human SSc, primary lung fibrosis and in a mouse model of scleroderma.
Microneedle/nanoencapsulation-mediated transdermal delivery: mechanistic insights.	A systematic study was undertaken to gain more insight into the mechanism of transdermal delivery of nanoencapsulated model dyes across microneedle (MN)-treated skin, a complex process not yet explored. Rhodamine B (Rh B) and fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) as model hydrophilic and hydrophobic small/medium-size molecules, respectively, were encapsulated in poly lactic-co-glycolic acid (PLGA) nanoparticles (NPs) and delivered through full thickness porcine skin pretreated with MN array. Permeation through MN-treated skin was affected by physicochemical characteristics of NPs and the encapsulated dyes. Dye flux was enhanced by smaller particle size, hydrophilicity, and negative zeta potential of NPs. Regarding encapsulated dyes, solubility at physiological pH and potential interaction with skin proteins proved to outweigh molecular weight as determinants of skin permeation. Data were verified using confocal laser scanning microscopy imaging. Findings coupled with the literature data are supportive of a mechanism involving influx of NPs, particularly of smaller size, deep into MN-created channels, generating depot dye-rich reservoirs. Molecular diffusion of the released dye across viable skin layers proceeds at a rate determined by its molecular characteristics. Data obtained provide mechanistic information of importance to the development of formulation strategies for more effective intradermal and transdermal MN-mediated delivery of nanoencapsulated therapeutic agents. 
Characterization and skin permeation of ketoprofen-loaded vesicular systems.	To determine the effect of elasticity on the skin permeation of ketoprofen from surfactant-based vesicular formulations and elastic liposomes.
Tamoxifen citrate loaded ethosomes for transdermal drug delivery system: preparation and characterization.	Long term tamoxifen citrate therapy is imperative to treat several dermatological and hormonal sensitive disorders. Successful oral and parenteral administration of tamoxifen citrate has been challenging since it undergoes enzymatic degradation and has poor aqueous solubility issues. In the present work, tamoxifen citrate loaded ethosomes were prepared and characterized for transdermal applications. The prepared formulations were characterized for morphological features, particle size distribution, calorimetric attributes, zeta potential and drug entrapment. Permeation profile of prepared ethosomes was compared with liposomes and hydroethonalic solution across cellophane membrane and human cadaver skin. Results of the permeation studies indicate that ethosomes were able to deliver >90% drug within 24 hours of application, while liposomes and hydroethanolic solution delivered only 39.04% and 36.55% respectively. Skin deposition and stability studies are also reported. 
Chlorine induces the unfolded protein response in murine lungs and skin.	Chlorine (Cl2) is an important industrial chemical. Accidental full body exposure to Cl2 poses an environmental, occupational, and public health hazard characterized mainly by injury to the lung, skin, and ocular epithelia. The cellular mechanisms underlying its acute toxicity are incompletely understood. This study examined whether whole body exposure of BALB/c mice to Cl2 in environmental chambers leads to the up-regulation of the unfolded protein response (UPR) in their lungs and skin. Shaved BALB/c mice were exposed to a sublethal concentration of Cl2 (400 ppm for 30 min) and returned to room air for 1 or 6 hours and killed. IL-6 and TNF- were increased significantly at 1 and 6 hours after Cl2 exposure in the lungs and at 6 hours in the skin. These changes were accompanied by increased UPR signaling (i.e., activation of protein kinase RNA-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase, inositol-requiring enzyme 1 , and activating transcription factor 6) at these time points. The expression of hepcidin, which regulates tissue accumulation and mobilization of iron, was increased in the skin and lungs of Cl2-exposed mice. The data shown herein indicate for the first time the up-regulation of UPR signaling and hepcidin in the skin and lungs of Cl2-exposed mice, which persisted when the mice were returned to room air for 6 hours. 
Proton-facilitated ammonia excretion by ionocytes of medaka (Oryzias latipes) acclimated to seawater.	The proton-facilitated ammonia excretion is critical for a fish's ability to excrete ammonia in freshwater. However, it remains unclear whether that mechanism is also critical for ammonia excretion in seawater (SW). Using a scanning ion-selective electrode technique (SIET) to measure H(+) gradients, an acidic boundary layer was detected at the yolk-sac surface of SW-acclimated medaka (Oryzias latipes) larvae. The H(+) gradient detected at the surface of ionocytes was higher than that of keratinocytes in the yolk sac. Treatment with Tricine buffer or EIPA (a NHE inhibitor) reduced the H(+) gradient and ammonia excretion of larvae. In situ hybridization and immunochemistry showed that slc9a2 (NHE2) and slc9a3 (NHE3) were expressed in the same SW-type ionocytes. A real-time PCR analysis showed that transfer to SW downregulated branchial mRNA expressions of slc9a3 and Rhesus glycoproteins (rhcg1, rhcg2, and rhbg) but upregulated that of slc9a2. However, slc9a3, rhcg1, rhcg2, and rhbg expressions were induced by high ammonia in SW. This study suggests that SW-type ionocytes play a role in acid and ammonia excretion and that the Na(+)/H(+) exchanger and Rh glycoproteins are involved in the proton-facilitated ammonia excretion mechanism. 
Minicircle DNA is superior to plasmid DNA in eliciting antigen-specific CD8+ T-cell responses.	Clinical trials reveal that plasmid DNA (pDNA)-based gene delivery must be improved to realize its potential to treat human disease. Current pDNA platforms suffer from brief transgene expression, primarily due to the spread of transcriptionally repressive chromatin initially deposited on plasmid bacterial backbone sequences. Minicircle (MC) DNA lacks plasmid backbone sequences and correspondingly confers higher levels of sustained transgene expression upon delivery, accounting for its success in preclinical gene therapy models. In this study, we show for the first time that MC DNA also functions as a vaccine platform. We used a luciferase reporter transgene to demonstrate that intradermal delivery of MC DNA, relative to pDNA, resulted in significantly higher and persistent levels of luciferase expression in mouse skin. Next, we immunized mice intradermally with DNA encoding a peptide that, when presented by the appropriate major histocompatibility complex class I molecule, was recognized by endogenous CD8(+) T cells. Finally, immunization with peptide-encoding MC DNA, but not the corresponding full-length (FL) pDNA, conferred significant protection in mice challenged with Listeria monocytogenes expressing the model peptide. Together, our results suggest intradermal delivery of MC DNA may prove more efficacious for prophylaxis than traditional pDNA vaccines. 
Novel compound heterozygous mutations of POLR3A revealed by whole-exome sequencing in a patient with hypomyelination.	Congenital white matter disorders are a heterogeneous group of hypomyelination disorders affecting the white matter of the brain. Recently, mutations in the genes encoding the subunits of RNA polymerase III (Pol III), POLR3A and POLR3B, have been identified as new genetic causes for hypomyelinating disorders.
Production of dissolvable microneedles using an atomised spray process: effect of microneedle composition on skin penetration.	Dissolvable microneedles offer an attractive delivery system for transdermal drug and vaccine delivery. They are most commonly formed by filling a microneedle mold with liquid formulation using vacuum or centrifugation to overcome the constraints of surface tension and solution viscosity. Here, we demonstrate a novel microneedle fabrication method employing an atomised spray technique that minimises the effects of the liquid surface tension and viscosity when filling molds. This spray method was successfully used to fabricate dissolvable microneedles (DMN) from a wide range of sugars (trehalose, fructose and raffinose) and polymeric materials (polyvinyl alcohol, polyvinylpyrrolidone, carboxymethylcellulose, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose and sodium alginate). Fabrication by spraying produced microneedles with amorphous content using single sugar compositions. These microneedles displayed sharp tips and had complete fidelity to the master silicon template. Using a method to quantify the consistency of DMN penetration into different skin layers, we demonstrate that the material of construction significantly influenced the extent of skin penetration. We demonstrate that this spraying method can be adapted to produce novel laminate-layered as well as horizontally-layered DMN arrays. To our knowledge, this is the first report documenting the use of an atomising spray, at ambient, mild processing conditions, to create dissolvable microneedle arrays that can possess novel, laminate layering. 
Identification and functional characterizations of a novel TRIF gene from grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idella).	Toll/interleukin-1 receptor (TIR) domain containing adapter inducing interferon- (TRIF) is an adapter in responding to activation of some toll-like receptors (TLRs), which provides early clearance of viral and bacterial pathogens. Here we identified and characterized a full-length genomic sequence of TRIF gene from grass carp Ctenopharyngodon idella (designated as CiTRIF). CiTRIF genomic sequence consists of 3534 base pairs (bp), containing 5' flank sequence (496 bp) and unique intron (815 bp). The full-length cDNA sequence is 2241 bp, including 5' untranslated region (UTR) of 352 bp, 3' UTR of 209 bp, and an open reading frame of 1680 bp encoding a polypeptide of 559 amino acids with an estimated molecular weight of 62.643 kDa and a predicted isoelectric point of 5.71. The deduced amino acid sequence just contains TIR domain, and is most similar to the zebrafish (Danio rerio) TRIF sequence with an identity of 64%. CiTRIF exhibits sequence divergence from its orthologs. Promoter region was predicted and promoter activity was verified. mRNA expression of CiTRIF gene is widespread in 15 tissues investigated, highly in foregut and skin physiological immune barrier. The transcripts of CiTRIF were significantly and rapidly induced in spleen and head kidney tissues at early stage post grass carp reovirus (GCRV) challenge. The modulations are significant but mild in CIK (C. idella kidney) cells post GCRV infection or poly(I:C) stimulation. The over-expression vector was constructed and transfected into CIK cell line to get stably expressing recombinant proteins. In CiTRIF transfected cells, mRNA expressions of CiTRIF, CiRIG-I, CiIRF7 and CiIFN-I were up-regulated. After GCRV infection, the transcripts of CiTRIF, CiRIG-I, CiIRF7 and CiIFN-I fell a little bit after a rapidly and strongly rise. In CiTRIF over-expression cells, virus load and titer were significantly lower than those in controls post GCRV challenge, and virus replication was inhibited obviously. The results indicate that the novel TRIF gene from grass carp plays important roles in modulating antiviral innate immune responses, and serve the further functional studies on TRIF gene in teleosts and immune evolution.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of bruises: a pilot study.	The purpose of this study was to investigate if magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) could be used to image the presence of hemosiderin in bruises and if there was the potential for this technique to be applied as a non-invasive method to estimate the age of bruises. To achieve this aim an animal model to produce lesions resembling bruises was created by injecting blood obtained from the tail vein subcutaneously into an area of the abdominal wall. The animals were euthanized at 3, 6, 12 h, 1, 2, 3, 5, and 7 days post injection and the skin of the abdominal wall was excised for MRI scanning and histological examination. The injected blood appeared as hypointense (dark) areas on the T2* MRI at 3 and 6 h. The image of the injected areas became indistinct at 12 h and continued to be indistinct at 1 and 2 days, although there appeared to be transitioning from hypointensity to hyperintensity (light). The magnetic resonance image appeared to better correspond to the histological appearance at 3 and 5 days, with the "bruise" appearing hyperintense (white); however, some hypointense (darker) areas at 3 day possibly corresponded to the development of hemosiderin. At 7 day the injected blood had been converted to hemosiderin with possible correlation between areas of blue staining in Perls' stained histologic sections and areas of extreme hypointensity in the T2* magnetic resonance image. This study has shown that a series of changes occur on MRI of bruises in an animal model that may relate to histological changes. Although variability in the intensity of the MRI signal and considerable soft tissue artifact currently make interpretations difficult, this may be a technique worth pursuing in the non-invasive evaluation of bruises.
Localization of pufferfish saxitoxin and tetrodotoxin binding protein (PSTBP) in the tissues of the pufferfish, Takifugu pardalis, analyzed by immunohistochemical staining.	Pufferfish saxitoxin and tetrodotoxin binding protein (PSTBP) was previously isolated from the plasma of the marine pufferfish, Takifugu pardalis. In this study, we investigated distribution pattern of PSTBP in intestine, liver, ovary, skin, and skeletal muscle of T. pardalis by immunohistochemical staining for the study of functions of this protein. In the skin, dermis around the tetrodotoxin secreting gland was positive, while this secreting gland itself was negative. In the ovary containing vitellogenic oocytes, ovarian wall and vitelline envelope were positive, while yolk and nucleus were negative. In the liver, hepatocytes with large fat droplets and capillaries were positive. In the intestine, the lamina propria mucosae were positive, while the mucosal epithelium was negative. In the skeletal muscle, only capillaries were positive. Furthermore, liver specific expression of PSTBP was confirmed by Northern blot analysis. Based on these results together with reported tetrodotoxin localization pattern in pufferfish, PSTBP was assumed to be a carrier protein to transfer tetrodotoxin among the tissues, especially liver, ovary, and skin. 
Nerve independent limb induction in axolotls.	Urodele amphibians can regenerate their limbs. During limb regeneration, dermal fibroblasts are transformed into undifferentiated cells called blastema cells. These dermis-blastema cells show multipotency. Such so-called endogenous reprogramming of cell differentiation is one of the main targets of amphibian limb regeneration studies. It is well recognized that nerve presence controls the initiation of limb regeneration. Accordingly, nerve factors have been sought in amphibian limb regeneration. To investigate it, a relatively new study system called the accessory limb model (ALM) was developed. Using ALM, two signaling cascades (Fgf and Gdf5 signaling) came under focus. In the present study, Growth and differentiation factor-5 (Gdf5) application to wounded skin initiated limb regeneration responses and resulted in induction of a blastema-like structure in the absence of a nerve. However, the Gdf5-induced structure showed defects as a regeneration blastema, such as absence of detectable Prrx1 expression by in situ hybridization. The defects could be remedied by additional Fibroblasts growth factor (Fgf) inputs. These two inputs (Gdf5 and Fgfs) were sufficient to substitute for the nerve functions in the induction of limb regeneration. Indeed, Fgf2, Fgf8, and Gdf5 applications with the contralateral skin graft resulted in limb formation without nerve supply. Furthermore, acquisition of cartilage differentiation potential of dermal fibroblasts was tested in an in vivo and in vitro combination assay. Dermal fibroblasts cultured with Gdf5 were difficult to participate in cartilage formation when the cultured cells were grafted into cartilage forming region. In contrast, dermal fibroblasts cultured with Fgf2 and Fgf8 became easier to participate into cartilage formation in the same procedure. These results contribute to our understanding of molecular mechanisms of the early phase of amphibian limb regeneration. 
The K(+) channel GIRK2 is both necessary and sufficient for peripheral opioid-mediated analgesia.	The use of opioid agonists acting outside the central nervous system (CNS) is a promising therapeutic strategy for pain control that avoids deleterious central side effects such as apnea and addiction. In human clinical trials and rat models of inflammatory pain, peripherally restricted opioids have repeatedly shown powerful analgesic effects; in some mouse models however, their actions remain unclear. Here, we investigated opioid receptor coupling to K(+) channels as a mechanism to explain such discrepancies. We found that GIRK channels, major effectors for opioid signalling in the CNS, are absent from mouse peripheral sensory neurons but present in human and rat. In vivo transgenic expression of GIRK channels in mouse nociceptors established peripheral opioid signalling and local analgesia. We further identified a regulatory element in the rat GIRK2 gene that accounts for differential expression in rodents. Thus, GIRK channels are indispensable for peripheral opioid analgesia, and their absence in mice has profound consequences for GPCR signalling in peripheral sensory neurons. 
The role of transforming growth factor 1 in fractional laser resurfacing with a carbon dioxide laser.	The aim of this study was to investigate the role of transforming growth factor 1 in mechanisms of cutaneous remodeling induced by fractional carbon dioxide laser treatment. The dorsal skin of Kunming mice was exposed to a single-pass fractional CO2 laser treatment. Biopsies were taken at 1h and at 1, 3, 7, 14, 21, 28, and 56days after treatment. Transforming growth factor (TGF) 1 expression in skin samples was evaluated by ELISA, dermal thickness by hematoxylin-eosin staining, collagen and elastic fibers by Ponceau S and Victoria blue double staining, and types I and III collagens by ELISA. The level of TGF 1 in the laser-treated areas of skin was significantly increased compared with that in the control areas on days 1 (p<0.05), 3 (p<0.01), and 7 (p<0.05) and then decreased by day 14 after treatment, at which time it had returned to the baseline level. Dermal thickness and the amount of type I collagen of the skin of the laser-treated areas had increased significantly (p<0.05) compared with that in control areas on days 28 and 56. Fibroblast proliferation showed a positive correlation with TGF 1 expression during the early stages (r=0.789, p<0.01), and there was a negative correlation between the level of TGF 1 and type I collagen in the late stages, after laser treatment (r=-0.546, p<0.05). TGF 1 appears to be an important factor in fractional laser resurfacing. 
MicroRNAs in skin response to UV radiation.	Solar ultraviolet (UV) radiation, an ubiquitous environmental carcinogen, is classified depending on the wavelength, into three regions; short-wave UVC (200-280 nm), mid-wave UVB (280-320 nm), and long-wave UVA (320- 400 nm). The human skin, constantly exposed to UV radiation, particularly the UVB and UVA components, is vulnerable to its various deleterious effects such as erythema, photoaging, immunosuppression and cancer. To counteract these and for the maintenance of genomic integrity, cells have developed several protective mechanisms including DNA repair, cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. The network of damage sensors, signal transducers, mediators, and various effector proteins is regulated through changes in gene expression. MicroRNAs (miRNAs), a group of small non-coding RNAs, act as posttranscriptional regulators through binding to complementary sequences in the 3-untranslated region of their target genes, resulting in either translational repression or target degradation. Recent studies show that miRNAs add an additional layer of complexity to the intricately controlled cellular responses to UV radiation. This review summarizes our current knowledge of the role of miRNAs in the regulation of the human skin response upon exposure to UV radiation. 
Does the intensity of the inflammatory reaction in a bruise depend on its proximity to the site of trauma?	Whole blood was withdrawn by tail vessel puncture from anesthetized adult male Sprague-Dawley rats and 0.1 ml was re-injected subcutaneously at each of two sites on their abdominal wall. In addition, two adjacent sites were injected with 0.1 ml of sterile saline, and two more sites were only punctured using an injecting needle. In the second part of the study anesthetized adult male Sprague-Dawley rats had two sites on the abdominal wall pinched using a small pair of forceps, two adjacent sites received an injection of 0.1 ml of whole blood obtained by tail vessel puncture, and two more sites were both pinched and injected with 0.1 ml of whole blood. At intervals of 3, 6, 12 h, 1, 2, 3, 5, and 7 days the animals were euthanized and the skin of the abdomen was processed for histological assessment. Hemosiderin staining in tissues from the first part of the study was assessed qualitatively by scoring sections as 0, 1, 2, or 3 (representing no staining, mild staining, moderate staining, and intense staining) and semi quantitatively using a Nanozoomer Digital Pathology Scanner (NDP Scan U10074-01, Hamamatsu Photonics K.K., Japan). No inflammatory reaction was observed at the sites subjected to needle puncture only. At the sites of saline injection a mild reaction occurred. At the sites where the blood had been injected an intense inflammatory cell response occurred centrally, but not toward the periphery where blood had tracked. In the second experiment the most intense inflammation was also observed in the sites where there had been a pinch and injection of blood. Again, this was maximal centrally with reduced inflammation peripherally. Perls' staining of hemosiderin was comparable in both models, with iron first observed at day 1 at the region of the injection site. At the sites of injection only, and the sites of injection plus pinch, blood had spread laterally. Hemosiderin staining appeared first and more intensely at the site of injection/trauma. The intensity of the inflammatory response in this animal model of bruising was, therefore, directly related to the proximity to the site of trauma; the appearance and intensity of hemosiderin staining was also influenced by the location within the bruises. This study has shown that histological changes that may be utilized to date bruises may be significantly influenced by the site of the biopsy.
Collagen VII plays a dual role in wound healing.	Although a host of intracellular signals is known to contribute to wound healing, the role of the cell microenvironment in tissue repair remains elusive. Here we employed 2 different mouse models of genetic skin fragility to assess the role of the basement membrane protein collagen VII (COL7A1) in wound healing. COL7A1 secures the attachment of the epidermis to the dermis, and its mutations cause a human skin fragility disorder coined recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa (RDEB) that is associated with a constant wound burden. We show that COL7A1 is instrumental for skin wound closure by 2 interconnected mechanisms. First, COL7A1 was required for re-epithelialization through organization of laminin-332 at the dermal-epidermal junction. Its loss perturbs laminin-332 organization during wound healing, which in turn abrogates strictly polarized expression of integrin 64 in basal keratinocytes and negatively impacts the laminin-332/integrin 64 signaling axis guiding keratinocyte migration. Second, COL7A1 supported dermal fibroblast migration and regulates their cytokine production in the granulation tissue. These findings, which were validated in human wounds, identify COL7A1 as a critical player in physiological wound healing in humans and mice and may facilitate development of therapeutic strategies not only for RDEB, but also for other chronic wounds. 
The effect of valinomycin in fibroblasts from patients with fatty acid oxidation disorders.	Disorders of the carnitine cycle and of the beta oxidation spiral impair the ability to obtain energy from fats at time of fasting and stress. This can result in hypoketotic hypoglycemia, cardiomyopathy, cardiac arrhythmia and other chronic medical problems. The in vitro study of fibroblasts from patients with these conditions is impaired by their limited oxidative capacity. Here we evaluate the capacity of valinomycin, a potassium ionophore that increases mitochondrial respiration, to increase the oxidation of fatty acids in cells from patients with inherited fatty acid oxidation defects. The addition of valinomycin to fibroblasts decreased the accumulation of the lipophilic cation tetraphenylphosphonium (TPP(+)) at low concentrations due to the dissipation of the mitochondrial membrane potential. At higher doses, valinomycin increased TPP(+) accumulation due to the increased potassium permeability of the plasma membrane and subsequent cellular hyperpolarization. The incubation of normal fibroblasts with valinomycin increased [(14)C]-palmitate oxidation (measured as [(14)C]O2 release) in a dose-dependent manner. By contrast, valinomycin failed to increase palmitate oxidation in fibroblasts from patients with very long chain acyl CoA dehydrogenase (VLCAD) deficiency. This was not observed in fibroblasts from patients heterozygous for this condition. These results indicate that valinomycin can increase fatty acid oxidation in normal fibroblasts and could be useful to differentiate heterozygotes from patients affected with VLCAD deficiency.
Controlled penetration of ceramides into and across the stratum corneum using various types of microemulsions and formulation associated toxicity studies.	Several skin diseases such as psoriasis and atopic dermatitis are associated with the depletion or disturbance of stratum corneum (SC) lipids such as ceramides (CERs), free fatty acids and cholesterol. Studies suggested that replenishment of these lipids might help to treat diseased, affected or aged skin. With this premises in mind, there are some formulations in the market that contain SC lipids and currently, to facilitate permeation of the lipids deep into the SC, various CERs, and other SC lipid microemulsions (MEs) were developed and characterised using lecithin or TEGO CARE PL 4 (TCPL4) as base surfactants. However, to date, there are no reports that involve the permeability of SC lipids into and across the SC, and therefore, the penetration of CER [NP] as a model ceramide from various formulations was investigated ex vivo using Franz diffusion cell. Besides, the toxicity of the MEs was assessed using hen's egg test chorioallantoic membrane (HET-CAM). The results of the study showed that CER [NP] could not permeate into deeper layers of the SC from a conventional hydrophilic cream. Unlike the cream, CER [NP] permeated into the deeper layers of the SC from both type of MEs, where permeation of the CER was more and into deeper layers from droplet type and lecithin-based MEs than bicontinuous (BC) type and TCPL4 based MEs, respectively. The CER also permeated into deeper layers from ME gels which was, however, shallow and to a lesser extent when compared with the MEs. The results of HET-CAM showed that both MEs are safe to be used topically, with lecithin-based MEs exhibiting better safety profiles than TCPL4 based MEs. Concluding, the study showed that the MEs are safe to be used on the skin for the controlled penetration of CER [NP] deep into the SC. 
Proteomic analysis of tegument-exposed proteins of female and male Schistosoma japonicum worms.	The interplay between sexes is a prerequisite for female growth, reproductive maturation, and egg production, and the basis of schistosome pathopoiesis and propagation. The tegument is in direct contact with the host environment and its surface membranes are particularly crucial for schistosome survival in the definitive host. In this study, a streptavidin-biotin affinity purification technique combined with LC-MS/MS was used to analyze putative tegument-exposed proteins in female and male adult Schistosoma japonicum worms. In total, 179 proteins were identified in females and 300 in males, including 119 proteins common to both sexes, and 60 female biased and 181 male biased proteins. Some (e.g., serpin and CD36-like class B scavenger receptor) were involved in host-schistosome interactions, while some (e.g., gynecophoral canal protein) were important in the interplay between sexes. Gene Ontology analysis revealed that proteins involved in protein glycosylation and lysosome were highly expressed in females, while proteins involved in intracellular signal transduction, regulation of actin filament polymerization, and proteasome core complex were highly expressed in males. These results might elucidate physiological differences between the sexes. Our study provides new insights into schistosome growth and sexual maturity in the final host and permits the screening of vaccine candidates or drug targets for schistosomiasis. 
Intense THz pulses down-regulate genes associated with skin cancer and psoriasis: a new therapeutic avenue?	Terahertz (THz) radiation lies between the infrared and microwave regions of the electromagnetic spectrum and is non-ionizing. We show that exposure of artificial human skin tissue to intense, picosecond-duration THz pulses affects expression levels of numerous genes associated with non-melanoma skin cancers, psoriasis and atopic dermatitis. Genes affected by intense THz pulses include nearly half of the epidermal differentiation complex (EDC) members. EDC genes, which are mapped to the chromosomal human region 1q21, encode for proteins that partake in epidermal differentiation and are often overexpressed in conditions such as psoriasis and skin cancer. In nearly all the genes differentially expressed by exposure to intense THz pulses, the induced changes in transcription levels are opposite to disease-related changes. The ability of intense THz pulses to cause concerted favorable changes in the expression of multiple genes implicated in inflammatory skin diseases and skin cancers suggests potential therapeutic applications of intense THz pulses. 
Advanced glycation endproducts in children with diabetes.	To estimate skin content of advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs) by measurements of skin intrinsic fluorescence (SIF) from youth with diabetes in comparison with a population of youth and adults without diabetes.
Skin--'that unfakeable young surface'.	The 20- to 25-year period from the mid-1960s to the early 1990s represents, in many ways, a 'golden era' in the understanding of skin barrier function, percutaneous penetration and (trans)dermal drug delivery. From the ground-breaking mechanistic work of Scheuplein and Blank, and the 'gold standard' in vivo skin absorption experiments of Feldmann and Maibach, through the unravelling of the stratum corneum's structural and physicochemical characteristics that make it such an incredible feat of bioengineering, to the elegant biophysical and modelling studies of Potts, Francoeur and many others, the idea of administering drugs rationally to treat both local and systemic diseases was transformed from something close to the ravings of a lunatic to the reality of significant therapeutic and commercial success. This short article attempts to pick out some of the highlights along the way from the viewpoint of an interested observer and occasional participant in the 'action'.  2013 S. Karger AG, Basel. 
A personal view of skin permeation (1960-2013).	I want to thank Mike Roberts for arranging this issue of the journal and Annette Bunge and Richard Guy for reviewing this paper. This is, first, a history of my introduction to the field of skin permeability, and then an attempt to recall (with the inaccuracies that implies) the highlights of my research (1960-1975) on skin permeation, and finally a reflection by an old-timer on more recent concepts.
Current understanding of skin barrier morphology.	It was recently shown that the stratum corneum fat layer, i.e. the skin permeability barrier, has a unique molecular arrangement - stacked bilayers of fully extended ceramides with cholesterol molecules associated with the ceramide sphingoid moiety. We here give a brief historical perspective to the field of skin permeability barrier research and specifically address some selected contributions to the current understanding of skin barrier morphology.
Current understanding of skin biology pertinent to skin penetration: skin biochemistry.	The purpose of this review is to summarize some of the biochemical or chemical findings that have contributed most significantly to our current understanding of the permeability barrier of the skin. This literature survey covers the period from the 1970s up to the present. This seems appropriate since earlier progress was comprehensively covered in a 1978 review by Bob Scheuplein entitled 'Permeability of the skin: a review of major concepts' and in the earlier review by Scheuplein and Blank entitled 'Permeability of the skin'. Both of these review articles are still being cited, and the earlier one has been cited more than 800 times. Overlap with material covered in these earlier publications will be minimized. The overall significance of findings from some of the most recent years may not yet be determined. The emphasis will be placed on the determination of the composition and structures of the epidermal lipids, especially those of the stratum corneum, key enzymes in the biosynthesis of these lipids and some of the physical chemical properties of these lipids as revealed by X-ray diffraction, infrared spectroscopy and other physical methods.
Drug delivery with topically applied nanoparticles: science fiction or reality.	The efficacy of topically applied drugs is determined by their action mechanism and their potential capacity of passing the skin barrier. Nanoparticles are assumed to be efficient carrier systems for drug delivery through the skin barrier. For flexible nanoparticles like liposomes, this effect has been well demonstrated. The penetration properties of solid nanoparticles are currently under intensive investigation. The crucial advantage of nanoparticles over non-particulate substances is their capability to penetrate deeply into the hair follicles where they can be stored for several days. There is no evidence, yet, that solid particles 40 nm are capable of passing through the healthy skin barrier. Therefore and in spite of the long-standing research efforts in this field, commercially available solid nanoparticle-based products for drug delivery through the healthy skin are still missing. Nevertheless, the prospects for the clinical use of nanoparticles in drug delivery are tremendous. They can be designed as transport systems delivering drugs efficiently into the hair follicles in the vicinity of specific target structures. Once deposited at these structures, specific signals might trigger the release of the drugs and exert their effects on the target cells. In this article, examples of such triggered drug release are presented.
Brian Barry: innovative contributions to transdermal and topical drug delivery.	Brian Barry published over 300 research articles across topics ranging from colloid science, vasoconstriction and the importance of thermodynamics in dermal drug delivery to exploring the structure and organisation of the stratum corneum barrier lipids and numerous strategies for improving topical and transdermal drug delivery, including penetration enhancers, supersaturation, coacervation, eutectic formation and the use of varied liposomes. As research in the area blossomed in the early 1980s, Brian wrote the book that became essential reading for both new and established dermal delivery scientists, explaining the background mathematics and principles through to formulation design. Brian also worked with numerous scientists, as collaborators and students, who have themselves taken his rigorous approach to scientific investigation into their own research groups. This paper can only describe a small fraction of the many significant contributions that Brian made to the field during his 40-year academic career.
Passive and iontophoretic transport through the skin polar pathway.	The purpose of the present article is to briefly recount the contributions of Prof. William I. Higuchi to the area of skin transport. These contributions include developing fundamental knowledge of the barrier properties of the stratum corneum, mechanisms of skin transport, concentration gradient across skin in topical drug applications that target the viable epidermal layer, and permeation enhancement by chemical and electrical means. The complex and changeable nature of the skin barrier makes it difficult to assess and characterize the critical parameters that influence skin permeation. The systematic and mechanistic approaches taken by Dr. Higuchi in studying these parameters provided fundamental knowledge in this area and had a measured and lasting influence upon this field of study. This article specifically reviews the validation and characterization of the polar permeation pathway, the mechanistic model of skin transport, the influence of the dermis on the target skin concentration concept, and iontophoretic transport across the polar pathway of skin including the effects of electroosmosis and electropermeabilization.
Analysing the skin barrier from down under.	Over the past 40 years the Australian contribution to the field of skin science has been led by Michael Roberts. One of his earliest papers on membrane permeation was published in Nature, setting the scene for his huge contribution to both the fundamental understanding of skin permeability and the application of that knowledge to improved clinical outcomes, new delivery technologies and minimizing toxicological risk. His work has been characterized by a mechanistic, mathematical approach to defining skin permeation. He defined the parameters important to skin permeation, established structure-penetration relationships and demonstrated the importance of maximum flux from a clinical and toxicological viewpoint. Through his systematic approach, Mike showed a parabolic relationship between maximum flux and lipophilicity, and established that this is driven mainly by variations in solubility of the solute in the stratum corneum. One of the significant strengths of Mike's work is the ability to express biological concepts in mathematical terms. He has developed mathematical models that enhance our understanding of epidermal, dermal, deep tissue permeation and follicular transport. Throughout his career Mike has been involved in pioneering new technologies both for analysing the skin barrier and influencing permeation across it. His fundamental work in the area of iontophoresis provided models that defined the parameters influencing its permeation enhancement. Mike's research has been translated into improved clinical outcomes, reduced toxicological risk and changes to the regulation of skin products. This article provides an insight into Mike Roberts and the Australian contribution to skin science.
Percutaneous penetration paradigms: the contribution of Jonathan Hadgraft.	This paper addresses the application of physical chemistry towards understanding the processes of percutaneous penetration. Over the years, this approach has been used by the subject of this review to advance our knowledge of the skin and to interpret, model and predict dermal delivery. The basic laws of diffusion provide a framework for the comprehension of skin permeability and, as a corollary, how the barrier function can be modulated. The importance of understanding the physicochemical properties of potential skin permeants is highlighted. Rational formulation strategies for passive skin delivery are outlined. However, the overriding emphasis is that multidisciplinary approaches must be used to advance the field. This is exemplified in the work and references cited.
Modelling skin penetration using the Laplace transform technique.	The Laplace transform is a convenient mathematical tool for solving ordinary and partial differential equations. The application of this technique to problems arising in drug penetration through the skin is reviewed in this paper.
Lipid solubility and molecular weight: whose idea was that.	Gene Cooper was a bright theoretician, a skilled product developer, and a motivational leader who applied his talents to the skin science area early in his career. His work led to the development of finite dose skin absorption models, chemical penetration enhancer technologies and quantitative structure-penetration relationships for chemicals contacting human skin. His ideas regarding the impact of molecular weight and lipid solubility on skin transport catalyzed the later development by Potts and Guy of the first successful skin permeability model. But Gene's most important contribution to the field was as a scientific role model and an inspirational leader who launched the careers of several young scientists, including the author of this article.
Richard Guy and his collaborators: 'crackling' the skin code.	This paper aims to summarize the contributions of Richard Guy and collaborators to the skin field. Major contributions have been areas such as the modelling of skin absorption, use of spectroscopic techniques (Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, attenuated total reflectance Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy and impedance spectroscopy) to characterize the skin barrier and the effects of enhancing techniques on the membrane, dermatopharmacokinetics and assessment of topical bio-availability, iontophoresis and reverse iontophoresis, and use of imaging techniques to elucidate pathways of penetration and the skin disposition of nanoparticles. The field of topical and transdermal drug delivery has benefitted incalculably from the extensive work of Guy and his group: their findings about mechanisms of drug delivery and permeation enhancement, and the development of methodologies which are now accepted as gold standards by skin scientists.
Annette Bunge: developing the principles in percutaneous absorption using chemical engineering principles.	Annette Bunge and her research group have had the central theme of mathematically modeling the dermal absorption process. Most of the research focus has been on estimating dermal absorption for the purpose of risk assessment, for exposure scenarios in the environment and in the occupational setting. Her work is the basis for the United States Environmental Protection Agency's estimations for dermal absorption from contaminated water. It is also the basis of the dermal absorption estimates used in determining if chemicals should be assigned a 'skin notation' for potential systemic toxicity following occupational skin exposure. The work is truly translational in that it started with mathematical theory, is validated with preclinical and human experiments, and then is used in guidelines to protect human health. Her valued research has also extended into the topical drug bioavailability and bioequivalence assessment field.
From the structure of the skin barrier and dermal formulations to in vitro transport models for skin absorption: skin research in the Netherlands and in Germany.	This review presents an overview of German and Dutch research institutions and their studies in the field of skin drug delivery and adjacent topics. In the Netherlands, the involved research groups are mainly localized in Leiden, whereas in Germany the skin research institutions are spread over the whole country. The scientific studies in the Netherlands focus on the in-depth analysis of human skin composition and its individual components as well as on the development and characterization of dermal drug delivery systems ranging from liquid crystalline systems and vesicles up to microneedles with an emphasis on examining the interactions of these drug delivery systems with the human skin in vitro and in vivo. In Germany, the individual areas of research span from in-depth investigations on various drug delivery systems intended for skin application and the development of novel in vitro models for skin absorption testing up to in vivo studies focusing on the biological performance of topically applied actives. Furthermore, sophisticated analytical techniques are applied for the elucidation of skin assembly and transport processes. In addition, experimentally derived data are correlated with advanced computational modelling. Even though the individual research topics in the Netherlands and Germany are quite diverse, the exchange of knowledge and interdisciplinary collaborations between the two neighbouring countries were and are still frequently made. In this context, the review aims at highlighting crosslinks between the different institutions and individual persons to complete the picture. For each institution, the principal investigators and their studies are presented and the upcoming young scientists are introduced as an outlook for the field. This review does not claim completeness, but is rather intended to give a general overview of Dutch and German research in the field of skin drug delivery and adjacent topics.
Turning theory into practice: the development of modern transdermal drug delivery systems and future trends.	Despite its remarkable barrier function, the skin remains an attractive site for systemic drug delivery given its easy accessibility, large surface area and the possibility to bypass the gastrointestinal tract and the liver and so modify drug absorption kinetics. The pioneering work of Scheuplein, Higuchi and others in the 1960s helped to explain the processes involved in passive percutaneous absorption and led to the development of mathematical models to describe transdermal drug delivery. The intervening years have seen these theories turned to practice and a significant number of transdermal systems are now available including some that employ active drug delivery. This review briefly discusses the evolution of transdermal therapeutic systems over the years and the potential of newer transdermal technologies to deliver hydrophilic drugs and macromolecules through the skin.
The contributions of the Celtic masters and their associates.	This article summarizes the work of 4 researchers in the field of percutaneous absorption - Keith Brain, Mark Cronin, Dermot McCafferty and John Pugh. It summarizes their main achievements in this field and reviews their major contributions to the broader subject area.
Solute-vehicle-skin interactions in percutaneous absorption: the principles and the people.	An appreciation of solute-vehicle-skin interactions underpins our current understanding of the processes of percutaneous absorption as well as in the prediction of the extent of absorption. This understanding has been reached through principles developed and validated over the last century through the work of a number of authors, including Dale Wurster, Takeru Higuchi, Irvin Blank, Robert Scheuplein, Gordon Flynn, Boyd Poulsen and Tom Franz, as well as by many scientists from my and younger generations. Their work has led to an appreciation of the rate-limiting steps in percutaneous penetration, the role played by the physicochemical properties of the solute, vehicle and skin and the variability that may arise from using various experimental/mathematical/pharmacokinetic models to quantify absorption as well as enabling the prediction of local and systemic efficacy and toxicity. In addition, unexpected behaviour may result from non-ideality in solute-vehicle-skin effects, including dehydration, chemical enhancement, supersaturation, metabolism, sequestration and vascular effects, including those of nanosystems on the local vasculature. In general, in vitro skin penetration profiles are predictive of in vivo profiles but a number of exceptions also exist.
Inflammatory effect of monopolar radiofrequency treatment on collagen fibrils in rabbit skins.	This study quantitatively examined the effects of monopolar radiofrequency (RF) treatment on the progressive nanostructural changes in the inflammatory effect of in vivo rabbit dermal collagen fibrils during postoperative 7 days. Conventional histologic analysis and atomic force microscopy (AFM) were employed to assess the nanostructural dermal response in 6 RF groups that underwent 2 passes of RF treatments (10 and 20 W), and 1 untreated control rabbit. After monopolar RF treatment, the rabbit skin clearly showed changes in the collagen network structure. The RF-treated group showed regular parallel arrangement of collagen fibrils whereas normal group showed tangled nanostructures. This phenomenon was remarkable at postoperative 7 days. Therefore, monopolar RF treatment leads to underlying collagen contracture and promotes new collagen formation. A multi-pass treatment of low-energy RF led to the highest contraction of collagen fibrils at the nanostructural level, compared to a single pass of high-energy RF.
The effect of BMP-2, BMP-4 and BMP-6 on bone destruction of cholesteatoma presence.	The aim of our study was to investigate the relationship between the destruction of temporal bone structures, ossicular chain destruction, dissemination of cholesteatoma and the expressions of bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs), BMP-2, BMP-4 and BMP-6 in patients with acquired cholesteatoma.
Lonicera caerulea fruits reduce UVA-induced damage in hairless mice.	UVA photons are less energetic than UVB photons but they are more abundant in solar radiation. Modern tools have shown that UVA light has serious adverse effects on the skin. We investigated the effect of consuming Lonicera caerulea berries on UVA-induced damage in SKH-1 mice. The mice were fed a diet containing L. caerulea berries (10%, w/w) for 14 days before a single UVA (30 J/cm(2)) treatment. Effects on haematological and antioxidant parameters were evaluated 4 and 24h after irradiation. The bioavailability of L. caerulea phenolics was also assessed. Consuming the L. caerulea berry-enriched diet caused reduced malondialdehyde production and increased catalase activity and glutathione levels were found in skin and erythrocytes. UVA-induced NADPH:quinone oxidoreductase-1 and gamma-L-glutamate-L-cysteine ligase protein in skin were reduced in mice fed L. caerulea berries. Enhanced heme oxygenase-1 level in skin, interleukin-17 in plasma and reduced interleukin-12 levels in plasma were found in the mice on the experimental diet. Histological (pyknotic) changes in the nuclei of basal cells induced by UVA exposure were reduced in L. caerulea berry consuming animals. HLPC-MS analysis showed high concentrations of hippuric acid, one of the main metabolites of aromatic amino acids and phenolic compounds, in skin, liver, urine and faeces of mice consuming the berries. Taken together, consumption of L. caerulea berries affords protection from the adverse effects of a single UVA exposure mainly via modulation of antioxidant parameters.
Levels of target activation predict antifibrotic responses to tyrosine kinase inhibitors.	To assess whether the discrepancy between the strong antifibrotic effects of tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) in animal models and the inconsistent results in clinical studies might be related to the activation levels of drug targets.
A homozygous nonsense mutation in the gene for Tmem79, a component for the lamellar granule secretory system, produces spontaneous eczema in an experimental model of atopic dermatitis.	Flaky tail (ma/ma Flg(ft/ft)) mice have a frameshift mutation in the filaggrin (Flg(ft)) gene and are widely used as a model of human atopic dermatitis associated with FLG mutations. These mice possess another recessive hair mutation, matted (ma), and develop spontaneous dermatitis under specific pathogen-free conditions, whereas genetically engineered Flg(-/-) mice do not.
Use of skin and blubber tissues of small cetaceans to assess the trace element content of internal organs.	In order to evaluate the use of biopsy samples as non-destructive tool for assessing trace element concentrations in small cetaceans, the concentrations of 14 trace elements were determined in skin, blubber, liver and kidneys of four species of small cetaceans (i.e. common dolphin Delphinus delphis, harbour porpoise Phocoena phocoena, bottlenose dolphin Tursiops truncatus and striped dolphin Stenella coeruleolba), stranded and/or by-caught along the NE Atlantic Ocean coast between 2001 and 2008. Only Cu, Fe, Hg, Mn, Ni and Zn were above the detection limit of the instruments and showed recoveries satisfactory enough to be interpreted. Among these trace elements, Hg was the only one showing a significant correlation between concentrations in and those in liver and kidneys. In consequence skin and blubber can only be used as non-invasive monitoring tissues to investigate Hg bioaccumulation in internal tissues for cetacean populations. 
NCIC CTG IND.181: phase I study of AT9283 given as a weekly 24 hour infusion in advanced malignancies.	AT9283 is a potent inhibitor of the mitotic regulators, Aurora-kinases A and B, and has shown anti-tumor activity in patients with solid and haematological malignancies. This phase I study assessed safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of AT9283.
Surface modification and characterization of polycarbonate microdevices for capture of circulating biomarkers, both in vitro and in vivo.	Herein, we report the fabrication, characterization, and testing of a polymer microprojection array, for the direct and selective capture of circulating biomarkers from the skin of live mice. First, we modified polycarbonate wafers using an electrophilic aromatic substitution reaction with nitric acid to insert aromatic nitro-groups into the benzene rings, followed by treatment with sodium borohydride to reduce the nitro-groups to primary amines. Initial characterization by ultraviolet-visible (UV-vis) spectroscopy suggested that increasing acid concentration led to increased depth of material modification and that this was associated with decreased surface hardness and slight changes in surface roughness. Chemical analysis with X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and attenuated total reflectance fourier transform infrared (ATR-FT-IR) spectroscopy showed nitrogen species present at the surface for all acid concentrations used, but subsurface nitrogen species were only observed at acid concentrations >35%. The nitrogen species were identified as a mixture of nitro, imine, and amine groups, and following reduction, there was sufficient amounts of primary amine groups for covalent attachment of a polyethylene glycol antifouling layer and protein capture probes, as determined by colorimetric and radiometric assays. Finally, the modification scheme was applied to polycarbonate microprojection arrays, and we show that these devices achieve flank skin penetration depths and biomarker yields comparable with our previously reported gold-coated silicon arrays, with very low nonspecific binding even in 10% mouse serum (in vitro) or directly in mouse skin (in vivo). This study is the first demonstration showing the potential utility of polymer microprojections in immunodiagnostics applications. 
Tmem79/Matt is the matted mouse gene and is a predisposing gene for atopic dermatitis in human subjects.	Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a major inflammatory condition of the skin caused by inherited skin barrier deficiency, with mutations in the filaggrin gene predisposing to development of AD. Support for barrier deficiency initiating AD came from flaky tail mice, which have a frameshift mutation in Flg and also carry an unknown gene, matted, causing a matted hair phenotype.
In vitro studies on release and skin permeation of nonivamide from novel oil-in-oil-emulsions.	The purpose of this study was to develop oil-in-oil-emulsions that facilitate long-term treatment for chronic pruritus with capsaicinoids. To this end, oil-in-oil-emulsions, which comprised polydimethyl siloxanes, silicone surfactant and castor oil, were examined. We used nonivamide, a synthetic analogue of capsaicin as the active pharmaceutical ingredient. It was incorporated into castor oil that formed the dispersed phase of the emulsion. We evaluated the influence of formulation variables (nonivamide content, phase volume ratio and viscosity of the silicone oil) on the in vitro release and the permeation of nonivamide. Permeation was found to be controlled by the nonivamide concentration in the dispersed phase and the phase volume ratio. Oil-in-oil-emulsions were found to produce constant permeation rates over a period of 10h. They are thus superior to conventional semisolid formulations as application intervals may be extended. 
Transdermal delivery of relatively high molecular weight drugs using novel self-dissolving microneedle arrays fabricated from hyaluronic acid and their characteristics and safety after application to the skin.	The purpose of this study was to develop novel dissolving microneedle arrays fabricated from hyaluronic acid (HA) as a material and to improve the transdermal permeability of relatively high molecular weight drugs. In this study, fluorescein isothiocyanate-labeled dextran with an average molecular weight of 4kDa (FD4) was used as a model drug with a relatively high molecular weight. The microneedle arrays significantly increased transepidermal water loss (TEWL) and reduced transcutaneous electrical resistance (TER), indicating that they could puncture the skin and create drug permeation pathways successfully. Both TEWL and TER almost recovered to baseline levels in the microneedle array group, and relatively small pathways created by the microneedles rapidly recovered as compared with those created by a tape stripping treatment. These findings confirmed that the microneedle arrays were quite safe. Furthermore, we found that the transdermal permeability of FD4 using the microneedle arrays was much higher than that of the FD4 solution. Furthermore, we found that the microneedle arrays were much more effective for increasing the amount of FD4 accumulated in the skin. These findings indicated that using novel microneedle arrays fabricated from HA is a very useful and effective strategy to improve the transdermal delivery of drugs, especially relatively high molecular weight drugs without seriously damaging the skin. 
Fibronectin peptides that bind PDGF-BB enhance survival of cells and tissue under stress.	Stressors after injury from a multitude of factors can lead to cell death. We have identified four fibronectin (FN) peptides: two from the first FN type III repeat (FNIII1), one from the 13th FN type III repeat (FNIII13), and one from FN variable region (IIICS), which when tethered to a surface acted as platelet-derived growth factor-BB (PDGF-BB) enhancers to promote cell survival. One of the FNIII1 peptides and its smallest (14-mer) bioactive form (P12) were also active in solution. Specifically, P12 bound PDGF-BB (KD=200 nM), enhanced adult human dermal fibroblast (AHDF) survival under serum starvation, oxidative or endoplasmic reticulum stressors, and limited burn-injury progression in a rat hot comb model. Furthermore, P12 inhibited endoplasmic reticulum stress-induced c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) activation. Although many growth factors have been found to bind FN directly or indirectly, here we identify peptide sequences of growth factor-binding sites in FN. The finding of these peptides further delineated how the extracellular matrix protein FN can support cell survival. As the peptide P12 is active in either soluble form or tethered to a substrate, it will have multifactorial uses as a bioactive peptide by itself or in tissue engineering.
Rab11b mediates melanin transfer between donor melanocytes and acceptor keratinocytes via coupled exo/endocytosis.	The transfer of melanin from melanocytes to keratinocytes is a crucial process underlying maintenance of skin pigmentation and photoprotection against UV damage. Here, we present evidence supporting coupled exocytosis of the melanin core, or melanocore, by melanocytes and subsequent endocytosis by keratinocytes as a predominant mechanism of melanin transfer. Electron microscopy analysis of human skin samples revealed three lines of evidence supporting this: (1) the presence of melanocores in the extracellular space; (2) within keratinocytes, melanin was surrounded by a single membrane; and (3) this membrane lacked the melanosomal membrane protein tyrosinase-related protein 1 (TYRP1). Moreover, co-culture of melanocytes and keratinocytes suggests that melanin exocytosis is specifically induced by keratinocytes. Furthermore, depletion of Rab11b, but not Rab27a, caused a marked decrease in both keratinocyte-stimulated melanin exocytosis and transfer to keratinocytes. Thus, we propose that the predominant mechanism of melanin transfer is keratinocyte-induced exocytosis, mediated by Rab11b through remodeling of the melanosome membrane, followed by subsequent endocytosis by keratinocytes. 
Update on the structure and function of the skin barrier: atopic dermatitis as an exemplar of clinical implications.	The healthy stratum corneum allows optimum permeability of water and provides the first line of defense against pathogenic and environmental assaults. The barrier functions of the stratum corneum are interrelated, coregulated, and interdependent. Research has demonstrated that three lipid species, which usually comprise 10% of the stratum corneum, are crucial to both its structure and its function; these must be present in sufficient quantities and in the correct proportions to provide optimum barrier function. The clinical implications of how the skin barrier works--and is supported and restored--can be seen in the current and emerging understanding of atopic dermatitis management.
Current status of systemic sclerosis biomarkers: applications for diagnosis, management and drug development.	Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a clinically heterogeneous orphan disease of unknown etiology and no effective therapy. It is characterized by protean manifestations, an unpredictable disease course and variable outcomes. Clinical manifestations reflect underlying autoimmunity, small vessel vasculopathy and progressive multi-organ fibrosis. Predicting disease progression, pattern and severity of complications and response to therapy in SSc remain major challenges both for the management of patients and for the development of effective disease-modifying therapies. This review summarizes contemporary understanding of novel and emerging biomarkers for SSc. We focus on the development of new classification criteria, the utility of SSc-specific autoantibodies as diagnostic and prognostic markers, and on biomarkers for skin and lung involvement. Finally, we review genome-wide expression analysis as a tool to predict therapeutic responses. We anticipate that the development, validation and application of these biomarkers, singly or more likely in combination, will have a transformative impact in SSc, informing early diagnosis, classification and management, as well as the design, execution and interpretation of clinical trials of novel therapeutic agents. 
Microneedle-assisted delivery of verapamil hydrochloride and amlodipine besylate.	The aim of this project was to study the effect of stainless steel solid microneedles and microneedle rollers on percutaneous penetration of verapamil hydrochloride and amlodipine besylate. Verapamil, 2-(3,4-dimethooxyphenyl)-5-[2-(3,4 dimethoxyphenyl)ethyl-methyl-amino]-2-propan-2-yl-pentanenitrile is a calcium channel blocker agent that regulates high blood pressure by decreasing myocardial contractilty, heart rate and impulse conduction. Amlodipine, (R, S)-2-[(2-aminoethoxy) methyl]-4-(2-chlorophenyl)-3-ethoxycarbonyl-5-methoxycarbonyl-6-methyl-1, 4-dihydropyridine, is a calcium channel blocker that is used for the management of hypertension and ischemic heart disease. Passive penetration of verapamil and amlodipine across the skin is low. In vitro studies were performed with microneedle-treated porcine ear skin using vertical static Franz diffusion cells (PermeGear, Hellertown, PA, USA). The receiver chamber contained 5ml of PBS (pH7.4) and was constantly maintained at 37C temperature with a water circulation jacket. The diffusion area of the skin was 1.77cm(2). The donor compartment was loaded with 1ml of the solution containing 2.5mg/ml of amlodipine besylate. The donor chamber was covered with parafilm to avoid evaporation. Passive diffusion across untreated porcine skin served as control. Aliquots were taken every 2h for 12h and analyzed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Transcutaneous flux of verapamil increased significantly from 8.75g/cm(2)/h to 49.96g/cm(2)/h across microneedle-roller treated porcine skin. Percutaneous flux of amlodipine besylate following the use of stainless steel microneedles was 22.39g/cm(2)/h. Passive flux for the drug was 1.57g/cm(2)/h. This enhancement of amlodipine flux was statistically significant. Transdermal flux of amlodipine with microneedle roller was 1.05g/cm(2)/h in comparison with passive diffusion flux of 0.19g/cm(2)/h. The difference in flux values was also statistically significant. Stainless steel solid microneedles and microneedle rollers increased percutaneous penetration of verapamil hydrochloride and amlodipine besylate. It may be feasible to develop transdermal microneedle patches for these drugs. 
Vitamin D and the skin]	Vitamin D is well known for its beneficial effects on phosphocalcic homeostasis. The discovery of the role of vitamin D in cancers, infections, cardiovascular or autoimmune pathologies have promoted interest for this molecule. Skin and vitamin D are closely related. The skin is not only the site of vitamin D synthesis, but also a target organ as calcitriol plays an important hormonal and regulatory role, acting on cell proliferation, differentiation and immunomodulation. Furthermore, vitamin D influences the incidence and therapeutic response of certain dermatoses. In addition, many medical situations, mainly dermatological, require strict photoprotection and may therefore indirectly be responsible for a vitamin D deficiency in patients. The current role of vitamin D in skin cancers, inflammatory and autoimmune skin diseases is summarized.
Effect of diffusive direction across the skin on the penetration profile of chemicals in vitro.	Skin has various types of transporters and is a biochemically active organ. These aspects of skin influence the distribution of chemicals in skin and their elimination from skin. The biochemical and histological variations of the skin must be taken into account when conducting transdermal penetration research. Here we used hairless mouse skin to investigate the percutaneous absorption of chemicals in vitro from the stratum corneum (SC) side to the viable skin (VS) side (forward direction) and from the VS side to the SC side (backward direction). We examined the effects of molecular weight, lipophilicity (LogKo/w), electric charge, and the molecular structure of penetrants. The penetration flux of verapamil hydrochloride (VRP) for the backward direction was 3.2 times larger than that for the forward direction. The flux values of benzoic acid (BA) and para-hydroxybenzoic acid (pHBA) for the forward direction were 2.1 and 4.6 times larger than those for the backward direction, respectively. This directional difference was caused by the active transporter for VRP, the histological distribution of BA solubility, and the intermolecular hydrogen bonding between pHBA and skin tissue in the stripped skin. Across intact skin, in contrast, there was no difference in the skin penetration profile between the forward direction and backward directions. 
Microparticles of Aloe vera/vitamin E/chitosan: microscopic, a nuclear imaging and an in vivo test analysis for burn treatment.	The use of drug-loaded nanoparticles and microparticles has been increasing, especially for cosmetic and drug delivery purposes. In this work, a new microparticle formulation was developed for use in the healing process of skin burns in a composition of Aloe vera/vitamin E/chitosan. In order to observe the morphological properties, Raman and atomic force microscopy evaluation were performed. The biodistribution studies were analyzed by using a nuclear methodology, labeling the microparticles with Technetium-99m and in vivo test was procedure to analyzed the cicatrization process. The results of AFM analysis show the formation and the adherence property of the microparticles. Raman analyses show the distribution of each component in the microparticle. The nuclear method used shows that the biodistribution of the microparticles remained in the skin. The in vivo cicatrization test showed that the poloxamer gel containing the microparticles make a better cicatrization in relation to the other formulations tested. 
The expression of proinflammatory genes in epidermal keratinocytes is regulated by hydration status.	Mucosal wounds heal more rapidly, exhibit less inflammation, and are associated with minimal scarring when compared with equivalent cutaneous wounds. We previously demonstrated that cutaneous epithelium exhibits an exaggerated response to injury compared with mucosal epithelium. We hypothesized that treatment of injured skin with a semiocclusive dressing preserves the hydration of the skin and results in a wound healing phenotype that more closely resembles that of mucosa. Here we explored whether changes in hydration status alter epidermal gene expression patterns in rabbit partial-thickness incisional wounds. Using microarray studies on injured epidermis, we showed that global gene expression patterns in highly occluded versus non-occluded wounds are distinct. Many genes including IL-1, IL-8, TNF- (tumor necrosis factor-), and COX-2 (cyclooxygenase 2) are upregulated in non-occluded wounds compared with highly occluded wounds. In addition, decreased levels of hydration resulted in an increased expression of proinflammatory genes in human ex vivo skin culture (HESC) and stratified keratinocytes. Hierarchical analysis of genes using RNA interference showed that both TNF- and IL-1 regulate the expression of IL-8 through independent pathways in response to reduced hydration. Furthermore, both gene knockdown and pharmacological inhibition studies showed that COX-2 mediates the TNF-/IL-8 pathway by increasing the production of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). IL-8 in turn controls the production of matrix metalloproteinase-9 in keratinocytes. Our data show that hydration status directly affects the expression of inflammatory signaling in the epidermis. The identification of genes involved in the epithelial hydration pathway provides an opportunity to develop strategies to reduce scarring and optimize wound healing. 
Influence of massage and occlusion on the ex vivo skin penetration of rigid liposomes and invasomes.	Liposomes are frequently described as drug delivery systems for dermal and transdermal applications. Recently, it has been shown that particulate substances penetrate effectively into hair follicles and that the follicular penetration depth can be increased by massaging the skin, which simulates the in vivo movement of hairs in the hair follicles. In the present study, massage was applied to skin mounted to Franz diffusion cells. By means of confocal laser scanning microscopy, the influence of massage and occlusion on the follicular penetration depths of rigid and flexible liposomes loaded with a hydrophilic and lipophilic dye was investigated. The application of massage increased follicular penetration significantly. Occlusion resulted in an increased follicular penetration depth only for rigid liposomes, whereas invasomes did not penetrate more effectively if occlusion was applied. The results confirm that massage is an important tool for increasing follicular penetration in ex vivo studies using Franz diffusion cells. Occlusion may reduce the efficacy of follicular penetration depending on the specific liposomal preparation. Rigidity in particular appears to be a relevant parameter. 
Impairment of Na+ transport across frog skin by Tl+: effects on turnover, area density and saturation kinetics of apical Na+ channels.	Na+ transport across abdominal skin of the frogs, Rana temporaria and Rana esculenta was followed by measuring Na+-dependent short-circuit, current (INa) kinetics and INa fluctuations induced by triamterene, a diuretic. Exposure of the skin to serosal Tl+ led to a pronounced and irreversible drop in INa and INa-blocker noise. At low serosal Tl+ concentrations, we observed mainly a decrease in the apparent Michaelis constant for INa saturation while, at larger [Tl+], the maximal INa dropped irreversibly. Tl+ acts even when serosal Tl+ "transporters" like the Na+-K+ pump, or the K+ channel are nonfunctional. The rate constants for the triamterene/Na+ channel reaction were unchanged after Tl+ whereas the relaxation noise from channel blockage decreased in amplitude. Noise analysis in terms of a two-state blocking model suggested that Tl+ poisoning results in a small decrease in single-channel current through apical Na+ pathways, as well as in a drastic and irreversible drop in channel density. The impairment of Na+ transport by Tl+ can be attributed to the above cited concerted events at the level of the apical membrane.
A protein of squamous keratinising epithelium from odontogenic keratocyst fluid.	Fluid from odontogenic keratocysts was analysed. The major protein fraction with a mobility anodal to albumin on electrophoresis was shown not to be albumin or pre-albumin but a non-serum protein. Using an antiserum to keratocyst fluid absorbed with human serum, non-serum components of the odontogenic keratocyst fluid were localised in squamous keratinising epithelia, principally in the upper layers. The same antiserum showed immuno-localisation in squamous cell carcinoma of skin and cervix. No localisation was seen in normal non-squamous epithelia, in liver, stomach and colon or in non-keratinising squamous epithelial cysts of the jaw.
Comparison of the skin penetration of Garcinia mangostana extract in particulate and non-particulate form.	The aim of the present study was to solve the water insolubility limitation of the medically and cosmetically interesting substance Garcinia mangostana Linn (GML) extract by encapsulation, and to evaluate and investigate the penetration efficacy of free and encapsulated GML in two different vehicles (water and cream) in porcine ear skin. The follicular penetration depth was determined in 50 hair follicles for each of the four formulations by means of fluorescence microscopy. Tape stripping was used to compare the distribution properties of GML with all formulations on the stratum corneum. The results showed that encapsulated and free GML in the cream base penetrated deeper into hair follicles than if applied in an aqueous base. In addition, encapsulated GML could be distributed more homogeneously on the stratum corneum than the free GML. In conclusion, it was found that encapsulated GML in a cream base had the most effective penetration level in porcine ear skin. 
Protease-activated receptor-2 activates NQO-1 via Nrf2 stabilization in keratinocytes.	Protease-activated receptor-2 (PAR-2) mediates inflammation and immune responses by serine proteinases. NF-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) confers protection against tissue injury through antioxidant responses to oxidative stress induced by a variety of factors, including electrophilic chemicals, hydrogen peroxide, and ultraviolet irradiation.
Passive and active strategies for transdermal delivery using co-encapsulating nanostructured lipid carriers: in vitro vs. in vivo studies.	This work aimed at designing a formulation based on nanostructured lipid carriers (NLC) for transdermal co-administration of olanzapine and simvastatin, using passive and active strategies in a combined in vitro/in vivo development approach. NLC were prepared by two distinct methods, namely solvent emulsification-evaporation (SE/E) and high pressure homogenization (HPH). HPH was selected on the basis of a better performance in terms of drug loading and in vitro permeation rate. Several mathematical models were used to elucidate the release mechanisms from lipid nanoparticles. In vitro release kinetics was shown to be driven by diffusion, but other mechanisms were also present, and supported the feasibility of using NLC for sustained drug delivery. The in vitro skin studies showed that the chemical penetration enhancers, limonene and ethanol, added to the NLC formulations, promoted a synergistic permeation enhancement of both drugs, with olanzapine exhibiting a higher permeation than simvastatin. Transdermal administration to rats resulted in steady-state levels reached at around 10h and maintained for 48h, again with olanzapine exhibiting a better permeation rate. The pharmacokinetic parameters indicated that the NLC dispersion displayed a better in vivo performance than the gel, which was consistent with the in vitro results. These differences were, however, negligible in the flux values, supporting the use of gel as a final, more convenient, formulation. The in vivo experiments in rats correlated well with in vitro findings and revealed that the combined use of ethanol and limonene, incorporated in the NLC formulation, provided the main driving force for drug permeation. The Dermaroller pretreatment did not significantly enhance drug permeation, supporting the use of passive methods as suitable for a transdermal delivery system. Furthermore, this work may provide a promising proof-of-concept for further clinical application in the treatment of schizophrenia and associated disorders, combined with dyslipidemia. 
Plakins, a versatile family of cytolinkers: roles in skin integrity and in human diseases.	The plakin family consists of giant proteins involved in the cross-linking and organization of the cytoskeleton and adhesion complexes. They further modulate several fundamental biological processes, such as cell adhesion, migration, and polarization or signaling pathways. Inherited and acquired defects of plakins in humans and in animal models potentially lead to dramatic manifestations in the skin, striated muscles, and/or nervous system. These observations unequivocally demonstrate the key role of plakins in the maintenance of tissue integrity. Here we review the characteristics of the mammalian plakin members BPAG1 (bullous pemphigoid antigen 1), desmoplakin, plectin, envoplakin, epiplakin, MACF1 (microtubule-actin cross-linking factor 1), and periplakin, highlighting their role in skin homeostasis and diseases. 
Effect of nanostructured lipid vehicles on percutaneous absorption of curcumin.	The present study describes the production and characterization of monoolein aqueous dispersions (MAD) and lecithin organogels (ORG) as percutaneous delivery systems for curcumin (CUR). In particular, MAD stabilized by sodium cholate/poloxamer and w0 3 ORG lipid carriers, both in the presence and absence of CUR, have been considered: MAD morphology and dimensional distribution have been investigated by Cryogenic Transmission Electron Microscopy (cryo-TEM) and Photon Correlation Spectroscopy (PCS), while the inner structure of MAD and ORG has been studied by X-ray scattering techniques. As a general result, CUR chemical stability has been found to be better controlled by MAD, probably because CUR is more protected in the case of CUR-MAD with respect to CUR-ORG. To investigate the performance of differently composed lipid formulations as CUR delivery system, in vitro studies, based on Franz cell and stratum corneum-epidermis (SCE) membranes, and in vivo studies, based on skin reflectance spectrophotometry and tape stripping, were then performed. The results indicated that ORG induces a rapid and intense initial penetration of CUR probably due to a strong interaction between the peculiar supramolecular aggregation structure of phospholipids in the vehicle and the lipids present in the stratum corneum. Conversely, CUR incorporated into MAD can be released in a controlled fashion possibly because of the formation of a CUR depot in the stratum corneum. In this respect ORG could be employed in pathologies requiring rapid CUR action, while MAD could be proposed for assuring a prolonged CUR activity. 
Beta-oxidation of very-long-chain fatty acids and their coenzyme A derivatives by human skin fibroblasts.	The beta-oxidation of lignoceric acid (C24:0), hexacosanoic acid (C26:0), and their coenzyme A derivatives was investigated in human skin fibroblast homogenates. The cofactor requirements for oxidation of lignoceric acid and hexacosanoic acid were identical but were different from their coenzyme A derivatives. For example, lignoceric acid and hexacosanoic acid oxidation was strictly ATP dependent whereas the oxidation of the corresponding coenzyme A derivatives was ATP independent. Also the rate of oxidation of coenzyme A derivatives of lignoceric acid or hexacosanoic acid was much higher compared to the free fatty acids. In patients with Zellweger's syndrome, X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy and infantile Refsum's disease, the beta-oxidation of lignoceric and hexacosanoic acids was defective whereas the oxidation of their corresponding coenzyme A derivatives was nearly normal. The results presented in this communication suggest strongly that the beta-oxidation of very-long-chain fatty acids occurs exclusively in peroxisomes. However, the coenzyme A derivatives of very-long-chain fatty acids can be oxidized in mitochondria as well as in peroxisomes. The inability of the mitochondrial system to oxidize free fatty acids may be due to its inability to convert them to their corresponding coenzyme A derivatives. Our results suggest that a specific very-long-chain fatty acyl CoA synthetase may be required for the activation of the free fatty acids and that this synthetase may be deficient in patients with Zellweger's syndrome and possibly X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy, as well. The results presented suggest that substrate specificity and the subcellular localization of the synthetase may regulate the beta-oxidation of very-long-chain fatty acids in the cell.
Transcutaneous penetration of a mucopolysaccharide polysulfuric acid ester in the human. A histochemical study]	Using a histochemical test method it was investigated whether a mucopolysaccharide polysulfuric acid ester (MPS, Hirudoid) is able to penetrate the human skin. The penetration of MPS into the corium and the subcutis was demonstrated by metachromatic staining of cells which store MPS, whereby cellular elements acquire a colour which is distinct from the staining solution, as soon as they have incorporated MPS.
Differentially expressed bovine cytokeratin genes. Analysis of gene linkage and evolutionary conservation of 5'-upstream sequences.	Cytokeratins are a family of approximately 20 polypeptides which form the intermediate-sized filaments (IFs) characteristic of epithelial cells. They are synthesized co-ordinately as 'pairs' consisting of one representative from each of the two cytokeratin subfamilies, i.e. the acidic (type I) and the more basic (type II) polypeptides, in cell type-specific combinations. We have isolated and characterized the genes coding for four bovine cytokeratins of the basic (type II) subfamily, i.e. cytokeratins Ib, III, IV and 6*, by Southern blot hybridization, hybridization-selection-translation experiments, hetero-duplex mapping, and partial sequencing of the exons coding for the hypervariable carboxy-terminal 'tail' regions of the proteins and the 3'-non-translated ends of the mRNAs which are distinct for the individual cytokeratin polypeptides. Limited 'chromosomal walk' experiments demonstrated that the genes are organized into two tandems, i.e. 6*----Ib and III----IV, in which they are separated by approximately 11 kb. RNA analysis by Northern and dot blots show that both genes of the III----IV tandem are co-expressed in some bovine tissues (muzzle epidermis, hoof pad and tongue mucosa) and cultured cells (BMGE + H) but that in other tissues, cornea for example, only the gene encoding III is expressed. Unexpectedly, the genes linked in the tandem 6*----Ib are not co-expressed in any of the tissues examined. mRNA from gene 6* has been found in tongue mucosa but in none of the other cell lines and tissues examined, whereas mRNA for cytokeratin Ib is expressed in cornea and muzzle epidermis but not in, for example, tongue mucosa and in the epidermis of the heel pad.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Lunar cycles of coho salmon, Oncorhynchus kisutch. II. Scale amino acid uptake, nucleic acids, metabolic reserves and plasma thyroid hormones.	[14C]glycine uptake by scales in vitro was measured in coho salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch Walbaum) smolts at different times during several semi-lunar cycles. There was a clear cyclical pattern of glycine uptake during the semi-lunar period. Evidence for semi-lunar cycles of liver and muscle RNA:DNA ratios, carcass water content, haematocrit, and plasma triglyceride, glucose and cholesterol levels was also found in coho salmon parrs. Plasma L-thyroxine (T4) levels exhibited a cyclical pattern during the semi-lunar cycle in parrs sampled in March when plasma T4 levels tended to be low, but no such pattern was seen in parrs sampled in January when the plasma T4 levels were relatively high (1.39-1.88 micrograms dl-1 in January compared with 0.38-0.83 micrograms dl-1 in March). There were no apparent semi-lunar cycles in liver mass:body mass ratios and plasma triiodo-L-thyronine (T3) levels. Changes in growth parameters (nucleic acid levels and glycine uptake by scales) and the content of nutrient reserves are discussed in relation to the semi-lunar patterns of growth in length, growth in mass, and food intake in this species.
Peroxiredoxin I plays a protective role against UVA irradiation through reduction of oxidative stress.	Exposure of skin to long-wave UV radiation (UVA) increases the cellular levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS), which have been linked to apoptosis induction through the damage of lipids, proteins, and nucleic acids. Peroxiredoxin I (Prx I) is one of a family of antioxidant proteins that plays a protective role against oxidative damage; however the role of Prx I in UVA-induced damage remains to be clarified.
Annexin A2 participates in human skin keloid formation by inhibiting fibroblast proliferation.	Abnormal scarring results from the expression and composition of extracellular matrix molecules. The transcription and translation of collagens I and III, fibronectin, laminin, periostin, and tenascin are all increased in raised dermal scar tissue. However, human keloid development is not fully defined. In this study, we identified proteins expressed differentially between normal skin and keloid scar tissues and examined their function in keloid formation using fibroblasts. Skin specimens from normal volunteers and patients with keloids were obtained by skin biopsy. Whole proteins were isolated by two-dimensional electrophoresis, and differentially expressed proteins were identified by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight/time of flight mass spectrometry. Protein function was determined by proliferation assay using annexin A2-overexpressing keloid fibroblasts. The expression of 11 protein spots was altered by at least 1.5-fold in patients with keloids than in normal volunteers. Of these proteins, annexin A2, a pre-serum amyloid P component, serum albumin precursor, and tryptase-I, were down-regulated in keloid tissue compared to normal skin. Collagen alpha 1(V) chain precursor, collagen alpha 1(I) chain precursor, ferritin light subunit, alpha 1(III) collagen, 6-phosphogluconolactonase, and calponin 2 were up-regulated. Diminished expression of annexin A2 was confirmed by immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry. Treatment with the recombinant human epidermal growth factor increased proliferation of keloid fibroblasts, which was more inhibited in annexin A2-overexpressing fibroblasts than in non-transfected control cells. These results imply that annexin A2 may participate in keloid formation by inhibiting keloid fibroblast proliferation. Therefore, it is concluded that annexin A2 may be a valuable therapeutic target for keloid lesions. 
Regulation of the Rana sylvatica brevinin-1SY antimicrobial peptide during development and in dorsal and ventral skin in response to freezing, anoxia and dehydration.	Brevinin-1SY is the only described antimicrobial peptide (AMP) of Rana sylvatica. As AMPs are important innate immune molecules that inhibit microbes, this study examined brevinin-1SY regulation during development and in adult frogs in response to environmental stress. The brevinin-1SY nucleotide sequence was identified and used for protein modeling. Brevinin-1SY was predicted to be an amphipathic, hydrophobic, alpha helical peptide that inserts into a lipid bilayer. Brevinin-1SY transcripts were detected in tadpoles and were significantly increased during the later stages of development. Effects of environmental stress (24 h anoxia, 40% dehydration or 24 h frozen) on the mRNA levels of brevinin-1SY in the dorsal and ventral skin were examined. The brevinin-1SY mRNA levels were increased in dorsal and ventral skin of dehydrated frogs, and in ventral skin of anoxic frogs, compared with controls (non-stressed). Brevinin-1SY protein levels in peptide extracts of dorsal skin showed a similar, but not significant, trend to that of brevinin-1SY mRNA levels. Antimicrobial activity of skin extracts from control and stressed animals were assessed for Escherichia coli, Bacillus subtilis, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Botrytis cinerea, Rhizopus stolonifer and Pythium sulcatum using disk diffusion assays. Peptide extracts of dorsal skin from anoxic, frozen and dehydrated animals showed significantly higher inhibition of E. coli and P. sulcatum than from control animals. In ventral skin peptide extracts, significant growth inhibition was observed in frozen animals for E. coli and P. sulcatum, and in anoxic animals for B. cinerea, compared with controls. Environmental regulation of brevinin-1SY may have important implications for defense against pathogens. 
TLR2/1 and sphingosine 1-phosphate modulate inflammation, myofibroblast differentiation and cell migration in fibroblasts.	Dermal fibroblasts are important regulators of inflammatory and immune responses in the skin. The aim of the present study was to elucidate the interaction between two key players in inflammation, Toll-like receptors (TLRs) and sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P), in normal human fibroblasts in the context of inflammation, fibrosis and cell migration. We demonstrate that TLR2 ligation strongly enhances the production of the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6 and IL-8. S1P significantly induces pro-inflammatory cytokines time- and concentration-dependently via S1P receptor (S1PR)2 and S1PR3. The TLR2/1 agonist Pam3CSK4 and S1P (>1M) or TGF- markedly upregulate IL-6 and IL-8 secretion. Pam3CSK4 and S1P alone promote myofibroblast differentiation as assessed by significant increases of -smooth muscle actin and collagen I expression. Importantly, costimulation with S1P (>1M) induces differentiation into myofibroblasts. In contrast, Pam3CSK4 and low S1P concentrations (<1M) accelerate cell migration. These results suggest that TLR2/1 signaling and S1P cooperate in pro-inflammatory cytokine production and myofibroblast differentiation and promote cell migration of skin fibroblasts in a S1P-concentration dependent manner. Our findings provide significant insights into how infectious stimuli or danger signals and sphingolipids contribute to dermal inflammation which may be relevant for skin tissue repair after injury or disease. 
Increased expression of Dkk1 by HR is associated with alteration of hair cycle in hairpoor mice.	Hairless (Hr), a transcriptional corepressor expressed mainly in the skin, regulates hair follicle (HF) morphogenesis and hair cycling. Recently, we reported a new Hr mutant mouse, "Hairpoor" (Hr(Hp)), that resembles the human hair disorder Marie Unna hereditary hypotrichosis (MUHH) in the heterozygous state. The Wnt/-catenin signaling pathway is critical for homeostasis in various adult tissues including skin and HFs. One of the Wnt inhibitors, Dickkopf (Dkk), inhibits hair growth during the hair cycle as a catagen inducer of apoptosis, resulting in HF reductions.
Isolation, structures, and biologic activity of neurotensin-related peptides generated in extracts of avian tissue.	Two immunoreactive neurotensin-related peptides generated by the action of endogenous protease(s) on protein substrates during acid extraction of avian tissues have been isolated from extracts of turkey skin and proventriculus. One was identified as the pentadecapeptide, H-Phe-Glu-Arg-Phe-Gln-Gly-Met-Arg-Thy-Arg-Gly-Pro-Tyr-Phe-Leu-OH and the other was its C-terminal octapeptide fragment. Each peptide showed partial homology to the C-terminal, biologically active region of avian neurotensin, and isolated preparations displayed pharmacologic activity at submicromolar concentrations. Synthetic preparations were shown to be indistinguishable from the native peptides during high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) and bioassay. Analysis by HPLC indicated that similar peptides could be generated in extracts of proventriculus, pancreas, small intestine, skin, heart, lung, and skeletal muscle. These results, establishing the presence of a neurotensin-related sequence which can be liberated from protein(s) by the action of tissue enzyme(s), suggest that peptide(s) similar to neurotensin may be rapidly formed in order to promote physiologic regulation in multiple tissue(s).
Fibroblasts from patients affected by Pseudoxanthoma elasticum exhibit an altered PPi metabolism and are more responsive to pro-calcifying stimuli.	Pseudoxanthoma elasticum (PXE) is a genetic disorder characterized by progressive calcification of soft connective tissues. The pathogenesis is still hard to pin down. In PXE dermal fibroblasts, in addition to impaired carboxylation of the vitamin K-dependent inhibitor matrix Gla protein (MGP), we have also demonstrated an up-regulation of alkaline phosphatase activity. In the light of these data we have suggested that both calcium and phosphate metabolism might be locally altered, both pathways acting in synergy on the occurrence of matrix calcification.
Skin autofluorescence is associated with 5-year mortality and cardiovascular events in patients with peripheral artery disease.	Advanced glycation end products play a pivotal role in atherosclerosis. Recently, we showed that tissue advanced glycation end products deposition, noninvasively assessed by skin autofluorescence (SAF), is increased in patients with peripheral artery disease. The aim of the present study was to establish whether SAF is associated with all-cause mortality and with fatal or nonfatal major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) in patients with peripheral artery disease.
Potassium dependence of sodium transport in frog skin.	22Na+ and 42K+ fluxes across the basolateral membrane of the isolated epithelium of frog skin were investigated with regard to dependence on K+ in the basolateral solution. When K+ was removed from the basolateral solution (K+-free Ringer), there was a transient rise in short circuit current (Isc) that could be eliminated by pretreatment with ouabain. Concurrently, the apparent sodium efflux across the basolateral membrane (JNa*13) showed either no change or an immediate (1-2 min) small decrease (approximately equal to 10%) that was followed by a small transient increase. K+ fluxes showed either no change or a small decrease under these conditions. JNa*13 was partially ouabain sensitive during all of the above treatments. Furosemide partially inhibited both sodium and potassium flux after K+-free treatment. The pump, as defined by ouabain sensitivity of Na+ flux, continued to work even after 20 minutes of K+-free treatment. Pump activity may be maintained by potassium leaking from the cells that is recycled by the pump. However, the ouabain-sensitive transient rise in Isc after K+-free treatment cannot readily be explained by changes in either Na+ or K+ flux. A change in pump coupling ratio provides one explanation for these data.
The peanut lectin-binding glycoproteins of human epidermal keratinocytes.	Peanut lectin (PNA) is known to bind more strongly to keratinocytes that are undergoing terminal differentiation than to proliferating keratinocytes, both in intact epidermis and in culture. In order to investigate the significance of this change in cell-surface carbohydrate we have identified the PNA-binding glycoproteins of cultured human keratinocytes and raised antibodies against them. Two heavily glycosylated bands of 110 and 250 kDa were resolved by PAGE of [14C]galactose- or [14C]mannose- and [14C]glucosamine-labeled cell extracts eluted with galactose from PNA affinity columns. The higher molecular weight band was also detected on PNA blots of unlabeled cell extracts transferred to nitrocellulose. Both bands were sensitive to Pronase digestion, but only the 250-kDa band was digested with trypsin. A rabbit antiserum that we prepared (anti-PNA-gp) immunoprecipitated both bands from cell extracts. In contrast to PNA, anti-PNA-gp bound equally to proliferating and terminally differentiating cells, indicating that some epitope(s) of the PNA-binding glycoproteins is present on the cell surface prior to terminal differentiation. When keratinocytes grown as a monolayer in low-calcium medium (0.1 mM calcium ions) were switched to medium containing 2 mM calcium ions in order to induce desmosome formation and stratification, there was a dramatic redistribution of the PNA-binding glycoproteins, which became concentrated at the boundaries between cells. This may suggest a role for the glycoproteins in cell-cell interactions during stratification.
Characterization of ABC transporters in human skin.	Most identified drug transporters belong to the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) and solute carrier (SLC) families. Recent research indicates that these transporters play an important role in the absorption, distribution and excretion of drugs, and are involved in clinically relevant drug-drug interactions for systemic drugs. However, very little is known about the role of drug transporters in human skin, especially in the disposition of topically applied drugs, and their involvement in drug-drug interactions. The aim of this work was to characterize the ABC transporters in human skin.
Darier's disease: an immunohistochemical study using monoclonal antibodies to human cytokeratins.	The pathogenesis of Darier's disease was investigated by immunohistochemical staining of skin biopsies from involved and uninvolved skin in 14 patients, using monoclonal antibodies specific for keratins expressed in simple epithelia, stratified squamous epithelia and during skin specific differentiation as well as keratins expressed in mucosa and some benign epidermal hyperproliferative states. Uninvolved perilesional skin from Darier's patients showed a normal profile of keratin expression, whereas in lesional skin there was apparent delay in the expression of the suprabasal skin specific keratins. Suprabasal keratins were not detected in basal cells, thus there was no true premature keratinization. The presence of hyperproliferative keratins was restricted to suprabasal cells in lesional skin. Four patients were receiving treatment with etretinate at the time of biopsy, but results in these patients did not differ from patients using topical treatments. Etretinate did not influence the profile of keratin expression in uninvolved or involved skin. The expression of type VII collagen was examined and was normal throughout uninvolved and lesional skin in Darier's disease.
Systematic review focusing on the excretion and protection roles of sweat in the skin.	The skin excretes substances primarily through sweat glands. Several conditions have been demonstrated to be associated with diminished sweating. However, few studies have concentrated on the metabolism and excretion of sweat. This review focuses on the relationship between temperature and the thermoregulatory efficacy of sweat, and then discusses the excretion of sweat, which includes the metabolism of water, minerals, proteins, vitamins as well as toxic substances. The potential role of sweat secretion in hormone homeostasis and the effects on the defense system of the skin are also clarified.
Superficial hemosiderotic lymphovascular malformation (hobnail hemangioma): a report of six cases.	Hobnail hemangioma (HH), initially termed targetoid hemosiderotic hemangioma, is a rare, often solitary lesion classically characterized by a central brown or violaceous papulonodule surrounded at times by an ecchymotic halo. This lesion is typically found on the trunk or limbs of children or young to middle-aged adults. Numerous case reports have found HHs to have a reproducible histologic appearance. Although the exact histogenesis of these lesions is unknown, multiple recent immunohistochemical studies suggest a lymphatic origin of these lesions. We present six cases of children with HHs with classic histology but with variability in their clinical appearance. Because the clinical presence of a targetoid halo is inconsistent and the hobnail phenomenon is not specific, we favor the designation of superficial hemosiderotic lymphovascular malformation instead of HH or targetoid hemosiderotic hemangioma as a more unifying term for this rare clinical entity. By eliminating confounding terminologies (in this case, incorporation of "hemangioma" in the name of this entity), we also hope to encourage a swifter change in practice to move away from erroneous diagnostic considerations. 
Transdermal enhancement effect and mechanism of iontophoresis for non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.	Iontophoresis is an important approach to improve transdermal drug delivery. However, The transdermal enhancement mechanism of iontophoresis was not well known. The relationship between the physicochemical properties of drugs and the transdermal enhancement effect of iontophoresis was revealed in this study. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) were used as the models, including aspirin, ibuprofen and indomethacin. Their oil-water partition coefficients were measured. The carbomer-based hydrogels of them were prepared. Iontophoresis significantly enhanced in vitro transdermal delivery across the rat skins. Strong lipophilicity could lead to high permeation of drugs. However, the dissociation extent (indicated as pKa) of drugs was the key factor to determine the transdermal enhancement effect of iontophoresis. The more dissociation the drugs were, the higher the transdermal enhancement effect of iontophoresis. The drug-loaded hydrogels combined with iontophoresis improved the treatment of rat raw's inflammatory syndrome. Iontophoresis significantly improved the drugs penetrating into the hypodermis, dermis and epidermis, more deeply than the application of drugs alone according to the experimental result of 5-carboxylfluorescein hydrogels. Iontophoresis led to the unordered arrangement of skin intercellular lipids, the significantly increased flowability and loose stratum corneum structure. Iontophoresis is a promising approach to improve transdermal drug delivery with safety and high efficiency.
Development, formulation, and characterization of an adapalene-loaded solid lipid microparticle dispersion for follicular penetration.	The model retinoid adapalene was formulated in a novel solid lipid microparticle (SLM) dispersion as a topical drug delivery system for transport of the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) into hair follicle orifices. The aims of the investigations were the solid-state characterization of the lipid matrix (LM) with wide angle X-ray diffraction (WAXD) and hot-stage light microscopy (HS), the design space analysis of the developed SLM dispersion with a Box-Behnken design, the stability study of the manufactured formulation for particle size with laser diffraction and polarization intensity differential scattering (LD/PIDS) and thermal behavior with differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), and the structure analysis of the SLM dispersion with light microscopy, transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The formulation showed a constant mean particle size (MPS) of 4.2 m over 24 weeks with a melting point of about 56C. The potential for dermal application was determined by a follicular penetration (FP) study with porcine ear skin and thermal analysis of the interaction with artificial human skin lipids like sebum and stratum corneum lipid mixture. The in vitro studies confirmed both the follicular penetration potential and a targeted erosion or dissolution of the particles in sebum.
Lower melanin content in the skin of type 1 diabetic patients and the risk of microangiopathy.	Various skin diseases are commonly observed in diabetic patients. Typical biophysical properties of diabetic skin such as lower skin elasticity, decreased water content in stratum corneum, increased itching and sweating disturbances are reported. The aim of the study was to examine the distribution and intensity of skin pigmentation in diabetic patients in correlation with the metabolic control and with presence of microangiopathy.
Lipid nanoparticles for topical and transdermal application for alopecia treatment: development, physicochemical characterization, and in vitro release and penetration studies.	Alopecia is a dermatological disorder, commonly known as hair loss, which affects up to half of the Caucasian male population by middle age, and almost all (95%) Caucasian men by old age. Considering that alopecia affects so many people and that there is currently no scientifically proven treatment with few side effects, new drug-delivery systems able to improve alopecia therapy are urgently required. With this purpose in mind, the present study aimed to develop lipid nanoparticles (nanostructured lipid carriers) with the ability to incorporate and deliver anti-alopecia active compounds (minoxidil and finasteride) into the dermis and hair follicles. Lipid nanoparticles, prepared by ultrasonication method, showed mean particle sizes around 200 nm, which is sufficient for reaching the dermis and hair follicles, and zeta potential values around -30 mV, which indicates good physical stability. Over 28 days of storage, no significant variations in these parameters were observed, which indicates that all nanoformulations are stable in storage over that period. Cryo-scanning electron microscope measurements showed that all the lipid nanoparticles exhibited a spherical shape and a smooth surface regardless of their composition. Differential scanning calorimetry studies allowed the determination of phase transition temperatures and confirmed the recrystallization of the lipid nanoparticles (recrystallization index between 11% and 86%). A high loading efficiency was achieved for finasteride (between 70% and 90%), while less than 30% was achieved for minoxidil nanoparticles, over 28 days. Controlled release assays in physiological conditions demonstrated that nanoparticles loaded with minoxidil yielded a prolonged release, as desired. Penetration assays through pig ear skin demonstrated that nanoparticles loaded with minoxidil and finasteride had low levels of penetration. These results suggest that the proposed novel formulation presents several good characteristics indicating their suitability for dermal delivery of anti-alopecia active compounds. 
DNA-damage foci to detect and characterize DNA repair alterations in children treated for pediatric malignancies.	In children diagnosed with cancer, we evaluated the DNA damage foci approach to identify patients with double-strand break (DSB) repair deficiencies, who may overreact to DNA-damaging radio- and chemotherapy. In one patient with Fanconi anemia (FA) suffering relapsing squamous cell carcinomas of the oral cavity we also characterized the repair defect in biopsies of skin, mucosa and tumor.
Total IgE, mosquito saliva specific IgE and CD4+ count in HIV-infected patients with and without pruritic papular eruptions.	Pruritic Papular Eruption (PPE) is a skin disorders found in HIV infected patients. However, the exact etiology of PPE is not documented. It has been suggested that PPE might result from arthropod bites.
Melanin transfer: the keratinocytes are more than gluttons.	Skin pigmentation is tightly linked to the transfer of melanin from melanocytes to neighboring keratinocytes. For decades, cellular mechanisms underlying pigment transfer have remained enigmatic. Tarafder et al. identify a keratinocyte-initiated process coupling the exocytosis and endocytosis of melanin as a major pigment transfer mode in epidermis. These findings open new paths in our understanding of melanocyte-keratinocyte communication regulating pigmentation. 
A fibronectin-derived cell survival peptide belongs to a new class of epiviosamines.	In this issue, Lin et al. report the discovery of P12, a 14 amino acid peptide from the first fibronectin (FN) type III domain of FN, which has the capability of enhancing cell survival in culture and improving wound healing in rat skin. P12 belongs to a new class of bioactive peptides that they have named epiviosamines. Epiviosamines may have clinical applications. 
Tactile sensory system: encoding from the periphery to the cortex.	Specialized mechanoreceptors in the skin respond to mechanical deformation and provide the primary input to the tactile sensory system. Although the morphology of these receptors has been documented, there is still considerable uncertainty as to the relation between cutaneous receptor morphology and the associated physiological responses to stimulation. Labelled-line models of somatosensory processes in which specific mechanoreceptors are associated with particular sensory qualities fail to account for the evidence showing that all types of tactile afferent units respond to a varying extent to most types of natural stimuli. Neurophysiological and psychophysical experiments have provided the framework for determining the relation between peripheral afferent or cortical activity and tactile perception. Neural codes derived from these afferent signals are evaluated in terms of their capacity to predict human perceptual performance. One particular challenge in developing models of the tactile sensory system is the dual use of sensory signals from the skin. In addition to their perceptual function they serve as inputs to the sensorimotor control system involved in manipulation. Perceptions generated through active touch differ from those resulting from passive stimulation of the skin because they are the product of self-generated exploratory processes. Recent research in this area has highlighted the importance of shear forces in these exploratory movements and has shown that fingertip skin is particularly sensitive to shear generated during both object manipulation and tactile exploration.
Microfluidic-enabled liposomes elucidate size-dependent transdermal transport.	Microfluidic synthesis of small and nearly-monodisperse liposomes is used to investigate the size-dependent passive transdermal transport of nanoscale lipid vesicles. While large liposomes with diameters above 105 nm are found to be excluded from deeper skin layers past the stratum corneum, the primary barrier to nanoparticle transport, liposomes with mean diameters between 31-41 nm exhibit significantly enhanced penetration. Furthermore, multicolor fluorescence imaging reveals that the smaller liposomes pass rapidly through the stratum corneum without vesicle rupture. These findings reveal that nanoscale liposomes with well-controlled size and minimal size variance are excellent vehicles for transdermal delivery of functional nanoparticle drugs. 
A nanovesicle topical formulation of Bhut Jolokia (hottest capsicum): a potential anti-arthritic medicine.	Bhut Jolokia is a capsicum variety indigenous to Northeast India and is recognized as the hottest capsicum variety of the world. The ethnobotanical survey revealed that it has potential anti-arthritic activity but its topical adverse events restrict its usability. In the present study, the semipurified capsaicinoids extract of Bhut Jolokia was formulated as a topical formulation via ethosomal nanovesicle approach, which enhanced the acceptability.
Redefinition of the human mast cell transcriptome by deep-CAGE sequencing.	Mast cells (MCs) mature exclusively in peripheral tissues, hampering research into their developmental and functional programs. Here, we employed deep cap analysis of gene expression on skin-derived MCs to generate the most comprehensive view of the human MC transcriptome ever reported. An advantage is that MCs were embedded in the FANTOM5 project, giving the opportunity to contrast their molecular signature against a multitude of human samples. We demonstrate that MCs possess a unique and surprising transcriptional landscape, combining hematopoietic genes with those exclusively active in MCs and genes not previously reported as expressed by MCs (several of them markers of unrelated tissues). We also found functional bone morphogenetic protein receptors transducing activatory signals in MCs. Conversely, several immune-related genes frequently studied in MCs were not expressed or were weakly expressed. Comparing MCs ex vivo with cultured counterparts revealed profound changes in the MC transcriptome in in vitro surroundings. We also determined the promoter usage of MC-expressed genes and identified associated motifs active in the lineage. Befitting their uniqueness, MCs had no close relative in the hematopoietic network (also only distantly related with basophils). This rich data set reveals that our knowledge of human MCs is still limited, but with this resource, novel functional programs of MCs may soon be discovered.
Site-specific analysis of inflammatory markers in discoid lupus erythematosus skin.	Prior studies identified T cells, B cells, and macrophages in the inflammatory infiltrate and up-regulation of their protein products in discoid lupus erythematosus (DLE) skin; however, they lacked rigorous analyses to define their specific locations in skin. Thus, we compared expressions of selected T cell, B cell, and macrophage markers in five areas of DLE, psoriasis, and normal skin. Immunostainings for CD3, CD4, CD8, CD20, CD68, CXCR3, CXCL10, and TIA-1 were performed in biopsies of 23 DLE lesional skin, 11 psoriasis lesional skin, and 5 normal skin. Three independent observers used a graded scale to rate each marker's presence in the epidermis, dermatoepidermal junction (DEJ), perivascular area, periadnexal area, and deep dermis. DLE lesional skin contained an increased abundance of CD3(+), CD8(+), and CD68(+) cells at the DEJ, and CD20(+) and CD68(+) cells in the periadnexal area versus psoriasis and normal skin. CXCR3, CXCL10, and TIA-1 were elevated in periadnexal sites of DLE lesional skin versus psoriasis lesional skin. The aggregation of T cells, B cells, macrophages, and their protein products (CXCR3, CXCL10, and TIA-1) in the DEJ and periadnexal area of DLE lesional skin may contribute to the pathology of DLE through a coordinated, sophisticated process. 
Pathology of extramedullary mastocytosis.	Mastocytosis encompasses a group of clinically and pathologically heterogeneous disorders most commonly involving the skin, which typically takes the form of urticaria pigmentosa. Mastocytosis may also involve other organs, most often bone marrow, followed by gastrointestinal tract, liver, spleen, and lymph nodes. The presence of extracutaneous involvement by mastocytosis is a major diagnostic criterion for systemic disease. However, mast cell infiltrates are often subtle in skin and extracutaneous organs, and the histologic features of mastocytosis at different anatomic sites may be variable. This article reviews the pathologic features and clinical correlates of mastocytosis involving skin and other extramedullary sites. 
Expression of membrane glycoproteins in normal keratinocytes and squamous carcinoma cell lines.	Con A acceptor glycoproteins were analyzed by 2D-PAGE and 125I-Con A overlay in three squamous carcinoma cell lines and compared with those in the simian virus (SV40)-transformed keratinocyte cell line SVK-14 and in normal keratinocytes. The majority of the glycoproteins identified by this technique were expressed at similar levels in all of the cells examined, independent of the culture conditions used. A cell surface glycoprotein gp34 (MW 34 kDa, pI 5.1) was increased in the tumor cells compared with normal keratinocytes and expression varied with the culture density. Another glycoprotein, gp21 (MW 21 kDa, pI 6.3), was found to be increased in expression in normal keratinocytes and stratified hyperconfluent cultures of squamous carcinoma cell lines. This paper describes the potential of this technique to identify membrane glycoproteins which may be expressed as a function of proliferation or differentiation.
Secretory immunoglobulin A in sweat gland tumors.	The presence of immunoglobulin A (IgA) and secretory component (SC) was investigated in normal human skin and in cutaneous neoplasms including a variety of sweat gland tumors. Immunohistochemistry in normal sweat glands revealed the occurrence of secretory IgA (sIgA) as indicated by reactivity for IgA and SC in serial sections. The majority of 28 cases of sweat gland tumors could be demonstrated to retain their ability to produce IgA and SC. In normal as well as in neoplastic sweat glands heaviest staining for sIgA could be found in the lumina and at the surface of lining epithelia. This is comparable with the presence of sIgA in breast or intestinal neoplasms. In contrast other epidermal cysts or solid tumors were not labelled. In view of recent immunohistochemical studies the demonstration of IgA and SC may be of differentiating value in cutaneous glandular neoplasms.
Immunohistochemical staining properties of amyloids with anti-keratin antibodies using formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded sections.	Immunohistochemical staining properties of amyloids with anti-keratin antibodies were investigated using an avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex (ABC) system on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded sections. Anti-keratin antibody EAB-903 which recognize 66K and 57K daltons keratin peptides reacted with amyloid deposits in both lichen amyloidosus (LA) and macular amyloidosis (MA), but did not react with either primary systemic amyloidosis (AL), secondary systemic amyloidosis (AA) or heredofamilial amyloid polyneuropathy (AF). However, anti-keratin antibodies EAB-904 and MAK-6 did not react with any types of amyloids. These results suggested that immunohistochemical staining with anti-keratin antibody EAB-903 using formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded sections appeared to be a useful method in making differential diagnosis of primary localized cutaneous amyloidosis (AD).
A method for localizing the early products of nonenzymatic glycosylation in fixed tissue.	The process of nonenzymatic glycosylation (NEG) may play a significant role in the development of chronic complications of diabetes. Early products of NEG can be measured by various biochemical methods. A method has been developed to localize these early products of glycosylation in vivo in fixed tissue sections of normal and diabetic skin using monoclonal antibodies specific for glucitollysine, which is formed when the early products of NEG are chemically reduced in vitro. Carnoy's-fixed, paraffin-embedded skin samples from six diabetic and 13 nondiabetic subjects were sectioned, mounted on glass slides, and reduced for one h in 100 mM NaBH4. Immunolocalization was by the avidin--biotin immunoperoxidase method. Diabetic skin consistently stained more intensely for glucitollysine than nondiabetic skin. Staining around vessels, in particular, and of the collagenous matrix in general, was markedly enhanced in diabetic skin compared with nondiabetic skin. Antigens present in both the epidermis and the eccrine structures reacted with the antibody in both diabetic and nondiabetic skin but with greater intensity in the diabetic skin. This study has shown that it is possible to localize the early products of NEG in tissue sections using monoclonal antibodies. The findings correlate with biochemical data that show increased NEG in diabetics compared with nondiabetics. This technique should prove valuable for further investigations of the role of NEG in the pathogenesis of diabetes.
Identification of cadherin 11 as a mediator of dermal fibrosis and possible role in systemic sclerosis.	Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a chronic autoimmune disease clinically manifesting as progressive fibrosis of the skin and internal organs. Recent microarray studies demonstrated that cadherin 11 (Cad-11) expression is increased in the affected skin of patients with SSc. The purpose of this study was to examine our hypothesis that Cad-11 is a mediator of dermal fibrosis.
The hormonal regulation of color changes in the sexually dichromatic frog Buergeria robusta.	During the breeding season, dynamic changes in body coloration are regularly observed in the male brown tree frog Buergeria robusta. This study investigated the hypothesis that this sexual dichromatism in male B. robusta is mediated through hormonal regulation. Frogs were exogenously injected with testosterone (T) or estradiol (E2). This manipulation revealed that the body coloration (hue, brightness, and saturation) of the male frog increased significantly (i.e., the brilliant yellow color developed) in response to T but not in response to E2. Concurrently, the levels of expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) in the pituitary gland were reduced in frogs whose coloration was pale brown on a yellow background. In particular, the weakest expressions of BDNF, PACAP, and PACAP type II receptors (VPAC-1R) were found in male frogs with a brilliant yellow body color during the breeding season regardless of background color. These changes may decrease -melanocyte-stimulating hormone production associated with the PACAP receptors (VPAC-1R), resulting in the aggregation of black pigment in melanophores and the production of a brilliant yellow body color. The effects of hormones on skin coloration were further examined in isolated skin in vitro. The results of this investigation showed that the dispersion of xanthophores was stimulated by T or prolactin (PRL) and that the melanophores were aggregated by melatonin (MEL) but not by E2. Furthermore, yellow pigments in the xanthophores were significantly dispersed following the PRL+T treatment. In the T+MEL, PRL+MEL, and T+PRL+MEL treatments, xanthophores were dispersed, and melanophores were aggregated and subsequently moved to the low spongiosum layer of the dorsal skin, causing the increase in yellow coloration. These results reveal that multiple hormones play major roles in the regulation of the brilliant yellow coloration of male B. robusta by high plasma T during the breeding season.
Localization of osteonectin expression in human fetal skeletal tissues by in situ hybridization.	The expression of osteonectin gene was studied in developing human fetuses by Northern analysis and in situ hybridization. The highest levels of osteonectin mRNA were detected in RNA extracted from calvarial bones, growth plates, and skin. Low mRNA levels were present in several parenchymal tissues. In situ hybridization of developing long bones revealed three cell types with high osteonectin mRNA levels: osteoblasts, cells of the periosteum, and hypertrophic chondrocytes. Weaker signals were detected in osteocytes, fibroblasts of tendons, ligaments and skin, and in cells of the epidermis. Apart from the hypertrophic chondrocytes, only low osteonectin mRNA levels were seen in cartilage. The localization of osteonectin mRNA in fetal growth plates is consistent with the hypothesis that the protein plays a role in the mineralization of bone and cartilage matrices.
Low levels of serum type III procollagen aminoterminal propeptide confirmed type III collagen deficiency in patients without typical clinical symptoms of Ehlers-Danlos type IV.	Biochemical analysis of skin samples revealed that the content of type III collagen was greatly reduced in several subjects with joint hypermobility, stretchability and bruisability of skin. When cultured dermal fibroblasts were found to secrete decreased amounts of type III procollagen into medium (about 30-45% the normal amount) and serum type III procollagen aminopropeptide levels were significantly lower than normal values (P less than 0.001). The abnormalities in type III procollagen are in keeping with Ehlers-Danlos type IV although the clinical findings in our patients are not normally associated with this disorder. The results illustrate the clinical heterogeneity of Ehlers-Danlos type IV and the importance of biochemical analysis, such as determination of type III procollagen aminopropeptide levels, to check type III collagen metabolism especially if there is no family history and if correct diagnosis is not reliable by clinical examination alone.
Amyloid beta-protein deposition in tissues other than brain in Alzheimer's disease.	Alzheimer's disease is the most common cause of progressive intellectual failure in aged humans. The filamentous brain lesions which define the disease occur within neurons (neurofibrillary tangles), in extracellular cerebral deposits (amyloid plaques) and in meningocerebral blood vessels (amyloid angiopathy). They are found in lesser numbers in the brains of virtually all old humans. A protein with a relative molecular mass (Mr) of approximately 4,000, designated amyloid beta-protein or amyloid A4 protein, is the subunit of the vascular and plaque amyloid filaments in individuals with Alzheimer's disease, normal ageing and trisomy 21 (Down's syndrome). The amyloid beta-protein is a small fragment of a membrane-associated glycoprotein, encoded by a gene on human chromosome 21 which is telomeric to a genetic defect that causes at least some cases of familial Alzheimer's disease. Until now, the pathological lesions of the disease have been found only in the brain, although reports of phenotypic abnormalities in non-neural tissues have suggested that Alzheimer's disease may be a widespread, systemic disorder. Here we report the detection of amyloid beta-protein deposits in non-neural tissues and blood vessels of Alzheimer's disease patients, including skin, subcutaneous tissue and intestine. The protein was also present in non-neural tissues in a proportion of aged, normal subjects. Our findings indicate that a principal feature of the disease process is expressed subclinically in tissues other than brain. The occurrence of amyloid beta-protein deposits in multiple tissues suggests that the protein may be produced locally in numerous organs or may, as in other human amyloidoses, be derived from a common circulating precursor. These observations affect the rationale for many experiments analysing the amyloid beta-protein precursor and its messenger RNAs in Alzheimer's disease brain tissue and have major implications for the pathogenesis and treatment of the disease.
In vivo threshold for cutaneous synthesis of vitamin D3.	Cutaneous vitamin D3 synthesis and release into the circulation is promoted by skin exposure to ultraviolet B radiation (UVB, spectrum 290 to 320 nm). To determine the relation between UVB energy level and cutaneous vitamin D synthetic response, we delivered graded increases of UVB suberythemic radiant energy (3 to 27 millijoules/cm2 [mJ/cm2]) to 32 untanned young white subjects with skin type III (Fitzpatrick-Pathak classification). Serum vitamin D3 was determined 1 hour before (basal value) and 24 hours after a single whole body exposure to UVB in a phototherapy unit. The basal vitamin D3 concentration was similar in all individuals (mean +/- SEM for whole group, 1.6 +/- 0.2 ng/ml). UVB irradiances were followed by proportional rises in serum vitamin D3 (at 27 mJ/cm2, 14.3 +/- 3.7 ng/ml), and the overall correlation between UVB radiation and consequent serum vitamin D3 response (r = 0.81; p less than 0.02) was best described by an exponential function. The minimal UVB radiation level that produced a significant increase in serum vitamin D3 was 18 mJ/cm2, a value similar to the lowest solar broadband UVB irradiance that generates previtamin D3 in vitro from the precursor 7-dehydrocholesterol (20 mJ/cm2). Because in the northern United States winter UVB irradiance does not generally reach this threshold level, we conclude that individuals living at extreme northern (or southern) latitudes may have higher dependence on body stores and dietary supply to meet their vitamin D requirements during winter.
Nutritional importance of pyrroloquinoline quinone.	Mice fed a chemically defined diet devoid of pyrroloquinoline quinone (PQQ) grew poorly, failed to reproduce, and became osteolathyritic. Moreover, severely affected mice had friable skin, skin collagen that was readily extractable into neutral salt solutions, and decreased lysyl oxidase. The identification of functional defects in connective tissue and the growth retardation associated with PQQ deprivation suggest that PQQ plays a fundamental role as a growth factor or vitamin.
Some properties of the specific androgen-binding activities in cultured human genital skin fibroblasts.	Specific 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone (DHT)-binding activity in the cytosol (C) and 0.4 M KCl-extractable nuclear fraction (N) of cultured human fibroblast cell strains developed from preputial (n = 12) and labium majus (n = 12) skin were analyzed by gel exclusion chromatography, sucrose gradient sedimentation, and thermostability. Both fractions had activities that were excluded from Sephacryl S-200 columns; another component (mol wt, 20,000) was present in the N fraction. The C was more thermostable than a homologous N activity, and addition to the former of KCl to 0.4 M had no effect. There was large, overlapping variation in thermostability of the C and N activities among strains from either site, sister strains developed from a single skin biopsy, and even among serial subcultures within a strain; likewise, the variable sedimentability of the C (4-7S) and N (3.2-5.9S) activities prevented their consistent discrimination. Each type of variation occurred despite excellent intraexperimental replication. The thermostability of a given N activity varied directly with its sedimentation coefficient. By cluster analysis, the data relating thermostability of a given N activity with the percentage of 0.4 M KCl-resistant nuclear activity segregated into two populations; within each population these two measurements were related inversely. We suggest that these coordinate behaviors of the N activity reflect intrinsic properties of the androgen-receptor system in normal genital skin fibroblasts which may be useful for defining qualitative aberrations of the system in receptor-positive forms of congenital androgen insensitivity.
Microelectrode study of insulin effect on apical and basolateral cell membrane of frog skin: comparison with the effect of 1-deamino-8-D-arginine-vasopressin (dDAVP).	The standard microelectrode technique was used to electrophysiologically characterize the effect of insulin on both apical and basolateral cell membranes of the frog skin, a model Na-transporting epithelium. Insulin applied to the basolateral side of the epithelium stimulated the sodium transport as shown by both increased short-circuit current, Isc, (P less than 0.02) and transepithelial potential difference, Voc, (P less than 0.002). Potential difference across the apical cell membrane, Vo, decreased (P less than 0.002) as did the apical cell membrane resistance, Ro, (P less than 0.05). The driving force of sodium ions, ENa, increased after insulin (P less than 0.005). These findings confirm that insulin acts both to increase the apical cell membrane permeability for ions and to stimulate the sodium pump in the basolateral membrane. The effects of insulin were compared with those of a vasopressin analog (dDAVP), known to stimulate transepithelial sodium transport by increasing the permeability of the apical cell membrane for sodium ions. dDAVP applied at the height of insulin effect further stimulated transepithelial transport, but insulin applied at the height of dDAVP action did not. It is concluded that the direct stimulation of the sodium pump by insulin may not represent a decisive component in the stimulation of transepithelial transport across the frog skin. A more potent stimulus for sodium transport is obviously the increased permeability of the apical membrane for ions.
Granulocyte chemotactic protein/interleukin-8 induces plasma leakage and neutrophil accumulation in rabbit skin.	Granulocyte chemotactic protein/Interleukin-8 (GCP/IL-8), purified to homogeneity from endotoxin- or mitogen-stimulated human mononuclear cells, was injected intradermally into rabbits to evaluate the proinflammatory properties of this novel cytokine. In the presence of a vasodilator substance, pmol amounts of GCP/IL-8 induced neutrophil accumulation that was fast in onset, relatively short of duration (half life 60 to 70 minutes), and was associated with a parallel time course of plasma protein extravasation. GCP/IL-8-induced edema formation was found to be neutrophil dependent. These data provide evidence that GCP/IL-8 fulfills two important criteria for consideration as an inflammatory mediator. It is possible that endogenous GCP/IL-8, if produced locally by tissue macrophages, may contribute to the initiation of the inflammatory response to infection.
In situ localization of interleukin-1 in normal and psoriatic skin.	Interleukin-1 (IL-1) is a family of polypeptides that mediates a wide range of inflammatory and immune responses. In human skin, unstimulated keratinocytes produce a large amount of such cytokines. Although the precise role of IL-1 in the skin is unknown, there is experimental evidence supporting involvement of IL-1 in the pathogenesis of inflammatory skin diseases. In this study, we investigated in situ localization of IL-1 alpha and IL-1 beta in normal and psoriatic skin. Using polyclonal antibodies and the avidin-biotin peroxidase complex, we demonstrated the presence of both IL-1 alpha and IL-1 beta in normal and psoriatic formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissues. In both cases, IL-1 alpha was more prominent. However, the distribution of IL-1 alpha differed between normal and psoriatic skin. In normal skin, IL-1 alpha distribution was predominantly intercellular, whereas IL-1 alpha distribution was predominantly within the cytoplasm in psoriatic skin. These studies confirm that IL-1 alpha is the predominant form of IL-1 in the skin and provide further support for the hypothesis that IL-1 participates in the pathogenesis of psoriasis.
Definition of a physiologic pharmacokinetic model of cutaneous drug distribution using the isolated perfused porcine skin flap.	A physiologic pharmacokinetic model describing drug disposition in the isolated perfused porcine skin flap (IPPSF) is derived. The IPPSF is well suited for experimental studies of dynamic drug distribution into skin because arterial and venous drug fluxes can be continuously monitored. The system parameters of the model are uniquely identifiable and describe the cutaneous efflux profile as a function of arterial input flux and tissue partitioning or extraction. This model allows experimental results obtained from an in vitro preparation to serve as a quantitative input to an in vivo, whole animal pharmacokinetic system. Experimental infusion applications of the cancer chemotherapeutic agents cisplatin and carboplatin and the antimicrobials tetracycline and doxycycline are reported herein.
Phytohemagglutinin-binding sites in the skin. A useful histochemical marker of acrosyringium and distal portions of intradermal sweat ducts.	Phytohemagglutinin (PHA)-binding sites were histochemically investigated in normal adult skin and various skin tumors using peroxidase-labeled lectin. In the normal skin, acrosyringium and distal portion of intradermal duct of eccrine and apocrine sweat glands were intensely stained with PHA. Other elements of the skin were virtually negative. Among various kinds of sweat gland tumors and other skin tumors, syringoma and eccrine porocarcinoma were intensely stained with PHA. Small ductal structures of nodular hidradenoma and mixed tumor of the skin were also stained with PHA. No other skin tumors were positive with PHA staining. The present study clearly showed that PHA is a useful histochemical marker of distal portion of eccrine and apocrine sweat ducts.
Endogenous, cutaneous vitamin D synthesis stimulation as an effective way of improving the vitamin D status in children with hepatobiliary malfunctions.	Repetitive (5 days) ultraviolet treatment was used to improve vitamin D status of 26 pediatric patients suffering from different hepatobiliary disorders. The treatment resulted in a significant improvement of patients' vitamin D and 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels regardless of their disease and other factors such as increased blood bilirubin content or jaundice. Presence of a dependence between the increase in 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentrations after treatment and its original levels was confirmed.
Thermographic study of the percutaneous absorption of corticosteroids]	The results of a study on the percutaneous absorption of two corticosteroids, Halcinonide at 0.1% and Triamcinolone acetonide at 0.1%, employing an original thermographic method, are reported. In a first group of subjects treated with one application of the two corticosteroids a stronger activity of the Halcinonide was found than in a second group of subjects, after repeated applications, resulting progressively more evident and of longer duration in comparison with Triamcinolone.
Inhibitors of translation induce low density lipoprotein receptor gene expression in human skin fibroblasts.	The effect of protein synthesis inhibitors on low density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor gene expression was examined in human skin fibroblasts. Incubations in cycloheximide led to a marked increase in LDL receptor mRNA abundance as detected by Northern or slot-blot hybridization analyses. Incubation in puromycin had a similar effect. After the addition of cycloheximide, induction of LDL receptor mRNA levels was rapid (peaking between 2 and 3 h) and transient (falling to control levels by 24 h). This incubation could not be accounted for by the modest stabilization of mature LDL receptor mRNA species produced by cycloheximide and was completely abolished by concurrent addition of actinomycin D. Nuclear run-off transcription assays demonstrated increased LDL receptor gene transcription after 20-min incubations in cycloheximide. Induction of LDL receptor mRNA by cycloheximide was partially resistant to sterol suppression and was at least additive with induction produced by growth activation of cells using platelet-derived growth factors. These results indicate that inhibition of protein synthesis leads to rapid stimulation of LDL receptor gene transcription by a mechanism which is partially resistant to sterol suppression. We further conclude that early stimulation of LDL receptor gene expression associated with growth-activation of quiescent cells is independent of new protein synthesis.
Cyclobuta-dithymidine induction by solar-simulating UV radiation in human skin: II. Individual responses.	The purpose of this study was to examine cyclobuta-dithymidine (T*T) photoproduct induction and persistence in human skin exposed in situ to simulated solar UV radiation. Small areas of untanned skin in nineteen individuals were exposed using a solar UV apparatus that simulates both the spectrum and intensity of the UV portion of summer midday sunlight at 39 degrees N latitude. The equivalent of approximately 60 min of sunlight exposure (72KJ/m2) was administered, and T*T photoproducts were quantitated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) of DNA extracted from skin punch biopsies. Net yields of T*T photoproducts were determined in 10 individuals, with the majority (7 of 10) between 0.02 and 0.12 T*T per kilobase (Kb). The three remaining individuals had higher levels of photoproducts but were not unusually sensitive to solar UV as determined by minimal erythema dose (MED). Percentage loss of T*T photoproducts 4 h after exposure was determined in nine individuals to be 80.2 +/- 14.0%.
Influence of omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acid sources on prostaglandin levels in mice.	Studies from this laboratory, employing a hairless mouse model, have indicated that a polyunsaturated fatty acid source rich in omega-3 (n-3) fatty acid (FA) inhibits ultraviolet (UV)-carcinogenic expression, when compared to that of diets containing predominantly n-6 fatty acids. Omega-3 FA is a poor substrate for cyclooxygenase, the rate-limiting step in prostaglandin (PG) synthesis--the latter, particularly PGE2, are known to influence tumor biology. Based upon this rationale, plasma and cutaneous PGE2 levels were determined from hairless mice fed diets containing either 4% or 12% corn or menhaden oil. After two weeks on the respective diets, plasma PGE2 levels of corn oil-fed animals were approximately 6-fold greater than those of the menhaden oil-fed groups. A similar response was found in the dermis. Although the relationship to carcinogenic expression is unknown, dietary n-3 FA content can have a pronounced effect upon PGE2 levels and possesses the potential for influencing other immunomodulators.
Small proteoglycan synthesis by skin fibroblasts cultured from elderly donors and patients with defined defects in types I and III collagen metabolism.	The relative synthesis of two different types of small proteoglycans with potentially distinct roles in tissue function (PGI and PGII) was investigated in human skin fibroblast cultures initiated from donors of increasing age (fetal to 92 y) and from patients with defined defects in type I and type III collagen metabolism. Because these two small proteoglycans are not distinguished by the usual methods of ion-exchange and sieve chromatography, we have separated them using gel electrophoresis and confirmed this by specific immunoprecipitation. Small proteoglycans of the PGII type were the predominant species found in the medium of all cultures from normal donors, regardless of age. Most of the mutant cell lines showed a profile of small proteoglycan synthesis like that of the normal cells (i.e., predominantly PGII) although an increased ratio of PGI/PGII was seen for two cell strains from patients with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type IV characterized by intracellular accumulation of type III procollagen. We conclude that mutations affecting collagen primary structure and secretion appear to have little effect on the cells' synthesis and secretion of small proteoglycans. These findings fail to support an hypothesis suggesting that the metabolism of normal cellular synthetic products (proteoglycans) is altered by abnormal cellular processing of a defective product (collagen).
Plasminogen activators and antiplasmin activity in atopic dermatitis.	Cutaneous deposits of fibrinogen activity in lesional skin, plasmatic fibrinolytic activity, and antiplasmin activity (alpha 2 macroglobulin, alpha 1 antitrypsin and antithrombin III) were evaluated in a group of ten patients with atopic dermatitis and in a sex- and age-matched control group. Plasma fibrinolytic activity was increased in the acute phase of the disease (p less than 0.05). The levels of circulating antiplasmins appeared similar in the patients and the control group. Cutaneous fibrinolytic activity was increased in the acute phase of the disease in 5 of 5 cases, suggesting a role of the fibrinolytic system in the amplification of the inflammatory phenomenon in that phase of the disease. In the chronic lichenified phase, CFA was decreased in 3 of 5 cases leading to an excessive deposit of fibrin in the skin. This could be correlated with the abnormal vascular response (blanching phenomenon). On the basis of these data, the therapeutic use of the antifibrinolytic agents only seems rational in the acute phase of the disease.
Analysis of a recycling-impaired mutant of low density lipoprotein receptor in familial hypercholesterolemia.	A mutant low density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor with abnormal ligand binding and recycling abilities was found in a patient with familial hypercholesterolemia. The molecular weights of the precursor and the mature form of the receptor were 72,000 and 115,000, respectively, which were about 45,000 smaller than those of the normal receptor. The mutant receptor was concluded to be present on the cell surface because the mature form was susceptible to Pronase digestion, and specific monoclonal antibody against the LDL receptor (IgG-C7) could bind to the cell surface. This mutant receptor could not bind LDL, but could bind other ligands for the LDL receptor, beta-migrating very low density lipoprotein, and the apolipoprotein E-lipid complex. After the receptor bound to the ligand, it disappeared from the cell surface of the mutant cells faster than that of normal cells, showing that, in the mutant cells, the receptor was not efficiently recycled back to the cell surface. Southern blotting of the genomic DNA from the patient showed a large deletion of about 12 kilobases around the epidermal growth factor precursor homology domain. For further characterization of the mutant, we cloned a 9.4-kilobase EcoRI/XbaI fragment, which was expected to contain the deletion joint. Mapping and sequencing analyses of the receptor gene showed that exons 7-14 were deleted. The nucleotide sequence suggested that this mutation may have occurred by recombination between repetitive Alu sequences in introns 6 and 14 of the receptor gene. The recombination brought about a complete deletion of the gene coding the epidermal growth factor precursor homology domain. The characteristics of the receptor protein produced by this mutation were similar to those of an artificial mutation constructed by Davis et al. (Davis, C. G., Goldstein, J. L., Sdhof, T. C., Anderson, R. G. W., Russell, D. W., and Brown, M. S. (1987) Nature 326, 760-765) in which the whole gene coding this domain was deleted. The clinical phenotype of the patient having this mutation was similar to that of so-called "receptor-defective" type familial hypercholesterolemia, in which cells show detectable, but markedly reduced activity of the LDL receptor.
Scleromyxedema serum increases proliferation but not the glycosaminoglycan synthesis of dermal fibroblasts.	In comparison to normal fibroblasts cultured in parallel, scleromyxedema fibroblasts grew less well, synthesized increased amounts of glycosaminoglycans (GAG) in vitro and had ultrastructural abnormalities. Serum obtained from a patient with scleromyxedema increased in vitro fibroblast proliferation but not the GAG synthesis per cell. Serum obtained after therapy, at the time when clinical improvement was observed, continued to stimulate fibroblast proliferation. Thus the serum factor stimulating the fibroblast proliferation did not modulate their GAG synthesis and had no direct relationship to disease activity.
Effect of essential fatty acid depletion on tissue phospholipid fatty acids in spontaneously hypertensive and normotensive rats.	Weanling male spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) and normotensive (WKY) rats were maintained on a fat-free semisynthetic diet and killed at various intervals. The effects of fat-depletion on the appearance of essential fatty acid (EFA) deficiency symptoms, the progressive changes of major fatty acids in plasma, liver, heart, and kidney phospholipids (PL), and in skin total lipids were compared between these two strains. After five weeks on the diet, the slower growth and the appearance of EFA deficiency symptoms became evident in SHR. In general, fat-depletion reduced the levels of n-6 fatty acids, whereas it increased those of 20:3n-9. However, the fat-depletion induced reduction of 18:2n-6 in heart PL and 20:4n-6 in kidney, while the elevation of 20:3n-9 in plasma, heart, and kidney PL were greater in WKY than in SHR. As a result, the elevation of biochemical EFA deficiency index--20:3n-9/20:4n-6 ratio--was greater in WKY than in SHR. In comparison with WKY, the concentrations of liver triacylglycerols and the weights of adipose tissues in SHR were reduced to a greater extent, indicating an active catabolism of triacylglycerols in SHR. This study suggests that the earlier appearance of morphological symptoms of EFA deficiency in SHR was not associated with the reducing n-6 EFA levels or with an elevation of triene/tetraene ratio, but possibly to a reduced supply of n-6 EFA for skin prostaglandin synthesis.
Binding of high density lipoproteins to cell receptors promotes translocation of cholesterol from intracellular membranes to the cell surface.	Cultured cells have on their cell surface a specific high-affinity binding site (receptor) for high density lipoproteins (HDL) which appears to promote cholesterol efflux. In this study we characterized the cellular mechanisms involved in HDL receptor-mediated transport of cholesterol from cultured human fibroblasts and bovine aortic endothelial cells. HDL3, chemically modified by tetranitromethane (TNM-HDL3), is not recognized by this receptor and was used as a control for efflux not mediated by HDL receptor binding. HDL3 and TNM-HDL3 were found to be equally effective in causing efflux of plasma membrane cholesterol radiolabeled with [3H]cholesterol. However, HDL3 was much more effective than TNM-HDL3 in causing efflux of [3H]cholesterol associated with intracellular membranes. By measuring movement of endogenously synthesized [3H]cholesterol to the plasma membrane, and into the medium, we found that HDL3 induced a rapid movement of [3H]cholesterol from a preplasma membrane compartment to the plasma membrane that preceded [3H]cholesterol efflux. This effect was not observed with TNM-HDL3. Thus, receptor binding of HDL3 appears to facilitate removal of cellular cholesterol from specific intracellular pools by initiation of translocation of intracellular cholesterol to the plasma membrane.
Cyclic AMP mediated modification of cholesterol traffic in Leydig tumor cells.	The level of nonesterified cholesterol within MA-10 Leydig Tumor cells is regulated acutely by trophic hormones (Freeman, D. A., and Ascoli, M. (1982) J. Biol. Chem. 257, 14231-14238). In the present studies, we localize the site of this steroidogenic cholesterol to the plasma membrane and characterize the means by which this membrane becomes cholesterol-depleted. It is possible to detect the translocation of both newly synthesized cholesterol and cholesterol derived from lipoproteins from the cell interior to the plasma membrane. Stimulated MA-10 cells that are actively producing steroid hormones divert cholesterol from the normal intracellular or plasma membrane acceptor sites into the steroid biosynthetic pathway. Another important effect of steroidogenic stimulation is to cause internalization of plasma membrane cholesterol. Changes in cholesterol traffic in stimulated cells can be blocked by preventing the utilization of cholesterol for steroidogenesis. This later finding indicates that the changes in cholesterol transport induced by trophic hormones are consequences rather than primary causes of steroidogenic stimulation.
Matrix assembly sites for exogenous fibronectin are decreased on human fibroblasts after treatment with agents which increase intracellular cAMP.	Studies with cultured fibroblasts have shown that plasma as well as cellular fibronectin can be organized into fibrillar structures and that this organization is mediated by sites at the cell surface. Treatment of human skin fibroblasts with cholera toxin resulted in a prompt decrease in the number of binding sites for 125I-labeled plasma fibronectin and a 125I-labeled 70-kDa amino-terminal fragment of fibronectin. This decrease was accompanied by less incorporation of labeled fibronectin into deoxycholate-insoluble extracellular matrix. Binding of 125I-fibronectin was also decreased in cultures treated with epinephrine, isoproterenol, or forskolin. These results, therefore, indicate that G proteins and the adenylate cyclase system are involved in regulation of fibronectin matrix assembly sites may be one mechanism whereby hormones or growth factors can modify extracellular matrix characteristics.
1,25(OH)2D3 receptors and endorgan response in experimental aluminium intoxication.	Severe aluminium-induced osteomalacia is refractory to treatment with 1,25(OH)2D3 which frequently causes hypercalcemia. To further explore the mechanisms involved, we have utilized a model of short-term aluminium intoxication in the rat (total: 11 mg elemental aluminium in 3 weeks) to study (a) 1,25(OH)2D3 receptor status in a variety of classical and non-classical target organs for 1,25(OH)2D3; (b) circulating 1,25(OH)2D3 levels; (c) baseline duodenal calcium transport, utilising the Ussing chamber, to investigate the functional significance of receptor status in a classical target organ; and (d) duodenal calcium transport response to exogenously administered 1,25(OH)2D3. Both in the three week model and in the 16 week model (total: 41 mg elemental calcium) increased maximal specific binding capacity for 1,25(OH)2D3 (Nmax), that is, number of unoccupied receptors, was observed in nuclear fractions of all tissues studied. Receptor affinity, the apparent dissociation constant KD, was unchanged. Total binding capacity, measured after displacement of endogenous ligand by Mersalyl, that is, the sum of occupied plus non-occupied receptors, was also increased. Both circulating 1,25(OH)2D3, mucosa-to-serosa calcium flux (Jms) and net calcium flux (Jnet) were reduced under baseline conditions, suggesting the lack of a direct relationship between receptor expression and endorgan response. Following exogenous 1,25(OH)2D3 administration, calcium Jms and Jnet were significantly lower in the aluminium intoxicated animals, with the increment induced in Jnet in aluminium intoxicated animals being 63% of that induced in controls. Our data suggest that resistance to the action of 1,25(OH)2D3 in aluminium intoxication is postreceptor in nature.
Inhibition of prolyl hydroxylation during collagen biosynthesis in human skin fibroblast cultures by ethyl 3,4-dihydroxybenzoate.	The enzymatically catalyzed formation of 4-hydroxyproline plays a key role in the intracellular biosynthesis of collagen, since a critical number of 4-hydroxyprolyl residues is required for synthesis and secretion of triple-helical procollagen molecules under physiologic conditions. The enzyme catalyzing the conversion of prolyl residues to 4-hydroxyproline, prolyl 4-hydroxylase, requires ferrous ion, alpha-ketoglutarate, and ascorbate for its activity. 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid has been known to act as potent competitive inhibitor of purified prolyl 4-hydroxylase with respect to one or several of the cofactors or cosubstrates of the enzyme. 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid, however, is a poor inhibitor of prolyl hydroxylation in intact cells, probably due to its polarity not allowing it to enter the cells. In this study, several hydrophobic modifications of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were tested in human skin fibroblast cultures for their efficacy to inhibit the synthesis of 4-hydroxyproline. The results indicated that the ethyl ester of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was an efficient inhibitor of prolyl hydroxylation in fibroblast cultures, with Ki of approximately 0.4 mM. Ethyl 3,4-dihydroxybenzoate had little, if any, effect on the hydroxylation of lysyl residues, and it did not affect total protein synthesis or DNA replication in these cells. To test the hypothesis that ethyl 3,4-dihydroxybenzoate might serve as a potential antifibrotic agent, its efficacy in inhibiting prolyl hydroxylation in scleroderma fibroblasts was also tested. The results indicated that the synthesis of 4-hydroxyproline in scleroderma cell cultures was similarly reduced by ethyl 3,4-dihydroxybenzoate. Thus, structural analogs of the cofactors or cosubstrates of prolyl 4-hydroxylase, such as ethyl 3,4-dihydroxybenzoate tested here or its further modifications, may serve as inhibitors of posttranslational hydroxylation of prolyl residues also in vivo. These compounds could potentially provide a novel means of reducing collagen deposition in tissues in fibrotic diseases, such as scleroderma.
Influence of season and latitude on the cutaneous synthesis of vitamin D3: exposure to winter sunlight in Boston and Edmonton will not promote vitamin D3 synthesis in human skin.	Sunlight has long been recognized as a major provider of vitamin D for humans; radiation in the UVB (290-315 nm) portion of the solar spectrum photolyzes 7-dehydrocholesterol in the skin to previtamin D3, which, in turn, is converted by a thermal process to vitamin D3. Latitude and season affect both the quantity and quality of solar radiation reaching the earth's surface, especially in the UVB region of the spectrum, but little is known about how these influence the ability of sunlight to synthesize vitamin D3 in skin. A model has been developed to evaluate the effect of seasonal and latitudinal changes on the potential of sunlight to initiate cutaneous production of vitamin D3. Human skin or [3 alpha-3H]7-dehydrocholesterol exposed to sunlight on cloudless days in Boston (42.2 degrees N) from November through February produced no previtamin D3. In Edmonton (52 degrees N) this ineffective winter period extended from October through March. Further south (34 degrees N and 18 degrees N), sunlight effectively photoconverted 7-dehydrocholesterol to previtamin D3 in the middle of winter. These results quantify the dramatic influence of changes in solar UVB radiation on cutaneous vitamin D3 synthesis and indicate the latitudinal increase in the length of the "vitamin D winter" during which dietary supplementation of the vitamin may be advisable.
Association of the precursor of cathepsin D with coated membranes. Kinetics and carbohydrate processing.	Specific anti-chlathrin antibodies were used to isolate clathrin-coated membranes from homogenates of metabolically labelled fibroblasts. The isolated membranes were extracted with detergents and cathepsin D was isolated from the extracts. The 53-kDa precursor of cathepsin D was transiently associated with the coated membranes with a maximum approximately 60 min after synthesis. At maximum about 4.0% of the precursor was recovered with the coated membranes and the associated precursor contained complex oligosaccharides. The proportion of complex oligosaccharides in the coated membrane-associated precursor did not differ from that in the total precursor. These data support the view that coated membranes are involved in the transport of cathepsin D between trans Golgi and a prelysosomal organelle.
Lipidic nitrosating agents produced from atmospheric nitrogen dioxide and a nitrosamine produced in vivo from amyl nitrite.	In studies on nitrosating agent(s) formed in skin of mice exposed to nitrogen dioxide, we showed that: (i) N-nitrosomethylaniline was produced in skin of mice exposed to nitrogen dioxide and then painted with N-methylaniline; (ii) a nitrosating precursor in methyl linoleate is associated with peroxidation products; (iii) cholesterol is a major nitrosating precursor in mouse skin, probably because it produces the nitrosating agent, cholesteryl nitrite; (iv) cholesteryl nitrite enhances autoxidation of lipids in vivo and on mouse skin and, like sodium nitrite, catalyses the autoxidation of iodide; (v) N-nitrosomethylaniline was produced in mice injected intraperitoneally with methylaniline and gavaged with amyl nitrite; and (vi) nitrosating agents may occur normally in human skin lipids.
Variability in proteoglycan synthesis among six strains of normal human adult skin fibroblasts.	Several parameters of proteoglycan synthesis (incorporation of precursor isotope, distribution in culture compartments, sensitivity to chondroitinase ABC and Sepharose CL-2B elution profile) were investigated for six strains of normal human adult skin fibroblasts in culture in order to determine the range of variability in these parameters that could be expected in a normal population. When proteoglycan accumulation was measured in all cultures the uptake of Na2 35SO4 expressed per 10(6) cells had a coefficient of variation ranging from 17% to 50% in different experiments. Variability was always less when expressed per mg cell protein. The coefficient of variation was lowest when isotopic incorporation per mg cell protein was expressed as a percent of total incorporation of that isotope. Replicate tests indicated that the variability could not be explained by the assay methodologies alone. The protocol followed was designed to determine whether any consistent distinctions for individual cell strains could be identified. No significant difference in any parameter could be detected between the six cell strains by two-way analysis of variance although differences between experiments were significant in several cases and cultured bovine tendon fibroblasts were significantly different for every parameter tested.
Insulin stimulation of aminoisobutyric acid transport in human skin fibroblasts is mediated through both insulin and type I insulin-like growth factor receptors.	A monoclonal antibody to the human type I insulin-like growth factor (IGF-I) receptor (alpha IR-3) was used to distinguish actions of insulin and IGF-I that are mediated through insulin as opposed to IGF-I receptors on human skin fibroblasts. Both insulin and IGF-I stimulate uptake of the nonmetabolized alanine analog alpha-aminoisobutyric acid (AIB) in these cells. alpha IR-3 inhibited AIB uptake stimulated by both of these hormones in a dose-dependent manner. However, the pattern of hormone action in the presence of alpha IR-3 differed for the two hormones. In the case of IGF-I, alpha IR-3 potently inhibited AIB uptake at low hormone concentrations, but this inhibition was overcome by high hormone concentrations, consistent with impairment of IGF-I action through the IGF-I receptor. In the case of insulin, the action of low concentrations (i.e. 10 ng/ml) was not inhibited, but that of higher insulin concentrations was, suggesting a dual receptor mechanism of cell stimulation by insulin. alpha IR-3 will be an important tool in further studies of the biology of the IGF-I receptor in normal and abnormal human cells.
Nonlysosomal processing of cell-surface heparan sulfate proteoglycans. Studies of I-cells and NH4Cl-treated normal cells.	The metabolism of cell-associated proteoglycans, labeled in the glycosaminoglycan portion with 35SO2-4, was studied in normal skin fibroblasts (SL66 cells), NH4Cl-treated SL66 fibroblasts, and in I-cells derived from patients with mucolipidosis II. Kinetic data from label-chase experiments and gel filtration analysis of the molecular weight distribution of the radiolabeled glycosaminoglycans indicated that I-cells and NH4Cl-treated normal fibroblasts (a) internalize cell surface proteoglycans, (b) remove glycosaminoglycan chains from proteoglycan core proteins, and (c) degrade heparan sulfate glycosaminoglycan chains via an endoglycosidic activity. These processes occur with rates comparable to those in normal fibroblasts. The data are consistent with the hypothesis that the glycosaminoglycan chains of cell-surface proteoglycans are separated from the protein cores in a nonlysosomal compartment prior to the transport of these chains to lysosomes for degradation. These observations also raise the possibility that this early step in separation of glycosaminoglycan chains from protein cores may serve to regulate the levels of glycosaminoglycan-free core protein observed in various cells.
The effect of 13-cis-retinoic acid on sebaceous glands.	The drug, 13-cis-retinoic acid, which has been demonstrated to have a marked effect on nodulocystic acne, probably has several mechanisms of action. This article summarizes the effects on the sebaceous glands, and the accompanying changes in cutaneous lipids that result from 13-cis-retinoic acid therapy. These changes in lipid composition support the concept that linoleate may be of importance in the pathogenesis of acne.
How to protect the hands.	Hand protection entails many problems. There is a wide variety of individual differences in the types of skin among human beings, and an even wider variety of chemicals to be handled and working methods to be learned in various workplaces. There are great differences in the degree of experience and education among job applicants and thus in their ability to understand the importance of instructions on safe working methods and the use of personal protective equipment. Therefore, proper employee selection is an important and demanding task for occupational health care personnel and dermatologists. Despite these complexities, an appropriate means of hand protection is essential in the prevention of many skin disorders and injuries.
Microelectrode studies of the active Na transport pathway of frog skin.	When the outer surface of short-circuited frog skin was penetrated with microelectrodes, stable negative potentials that averaged near -100 mV were recorded consistently, confirming the results of Nagel (W. Nagel. 1975. Abstracts of the 5th International Biophysics Congress, Copenhagen. P-147.). The appearance of these stable potentials, V(O), concurrent with the observations that (a) a high resistance outer barrier R(O) accounting for approximately 75 percent or more of the transcellular resistance of control skins had been penetrated and that (b) 10(-5) M amiloride and reduced [Na] outside caused the values of V(O) to increase towards means value near -130 mV while the values of percent R(O) increased to more than 90 percent. It was of relationships were the same as the values of E(1) observed in studies of the current-voltage relationships were the same as the values of E'(1) defined as the values of voltage at the inner barrier when the V(O) of the outer barrier was reduced to zero by voltage clamping of the skins. Accordingly, these data are interpreted to mean that the values of E(1), approximately 130 mV, represent the E(Na) of the sodium pump at the inner barrier. 2,4-DNP was observed to decrease the values of transepithelial voltage less than E(1) the V(O) was negative. These data can be interpreted with a simple electrical equivalent circuit of the active sodium transport pathway of the frog skin that includes the idea that the outer membrane behaves as an electrical rectifier for ion transport.
Processing of types I and III procollagen in Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type VII.	The processing of types I and III procollagen was studied in skin fibroblast cultures from type VII A and B of the Ehlers-Danlos syndrome [EDS] and age-matched controls. Synthesis of collagenous proteins was significantly increased in EDS type VII B, and the activities of prolyl-4-hydroxylase and galactosylhydroxylysyl glucosyltransferase were slightly increased in these cell lines, reflecting increased biosynthesis of collagen. The synthesis of collagenous proteins was close to normal in EDS type VII A cells. The synthesis of type III procollagen per cell was increased, as also was the ratio of immunoreactive type III procollagen to total collagen production. The activity of type I procollagen amino-terminal proteinase was decreased in skin fibroblasts of type VII A and normal in those of type VII B relative to cell protein or DNA. Type III amino-terminal proteinase activity was of a level found in normal cells when expressed relative to the protein or DNA, and the release of type III amino-terminal propeptides was nevertheless not disturbed in these EDS type VII cell cultures. The results show that only the conversion of type I procollagen is defective in EDS type VII, and no general defect in procollagen processing can be found in EDS type VII as has been suggested in the case of dermatosparaxis, a connective tissue disorder in animals caused by disturbed procollagen conversion.
Monoclonal antibodies to the beta-adrenergic receptor: modulation of catecholamine-sensitive adenylate cyclase by the antibody.	We have developed two types of hybridomas producing monoclonal antibodies to the turkey erythrocyte beta 1-adrenergic receptor in order to study the beta-adrenergic-cAMP system of epidermis. Splenic cells from BALB/c mice immunized with partially purified turkey erythrocyte beta 1-receptors were fused with mouse myeloma cell line SP2/0-Ag14. Five hybridomas of 17 positive cells producing antibodies which could precipitate soluble turkey erythrocyte beta 1-receptors were cloned by the limiting dilution method. The antibodies cross-reacted with beta 1- and beta 2-adrenergic receptors and stained epidermal basal cells with immunocytochemical techniques. Neither type of antibody interfered with the antagonist binding, i.e., all antibodies bound to sites other than the ligand binding site on the surface. One type of antibody inhibited epinephrine-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity in our "leaky" epidermal cell system. The data suggest that the antibody interferes with the coupling of the receptor to the regulatory protein.
Isolation and characterization of type V collagen from human post-burn granulation tissues.	Sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS)-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of pepsin-solubilized collagens from post-burn granulation tissues revealed that type V collagen consisted of 3 alpha chains: alpha 1(V), alpha 2(V), and alpha 3(V). The mean value (0.12 +/- 0.01 SD) of the type V/type I ratio in the granulation tissues was significantly higher (p less than 0.001) than that (0.03 +/- 0.01 SD) of the ratio in normal skin. The average ratio of alpha 1(V):alpha 2(V):alpha 3(V) of type V collagen purified from the granulation tissues was determined to be about 5:3:1. SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis patterns of 3 alpha chains were not affected in the presence or absence of 2-mercaptoethanol. Purified type V collagen was degraded by bacterial collagenase, but remained intact after tadpole collagenase digestion, in contrast to type I and type III collagens. Amino acid analyses of each alpha chain separated on SDS-gel electrophoresis of type V collagen revealed that all 3 alpha chains of type V collagen were poor in alanine, rich in hydroxylysine, and had high ratios of hydroxylysine/lysine, which are typical features of type V collagen. The purified type V collagen was further fractionated by ammonium sulfate into 2 molecular species, [alpha 1(V)]2 alpha 2(V) and alpha 1(V)alpha 2(V)alpha 3(V). Our data demonstrate that type V collagen in preparations from human post-burn granulation tissues consists of 3 alpha chains and can be resolved into 2 distinct heterotrimers.
Serum stimulation of sodium transport in human fibroblasts containing low and high levels of intracellular sodium.	The relationships between intracellular sodium content, sodium transport and serum effects were investigated in human fibroblasts. In the cells with low intracellular sodium (Na+iL; 0.04 mumol sodium/mg protein), serum stimulated the sodium-potassium pump as measured by ouabain-sensitive sodium efflux and rubidium influx and also exerted a transstimulation of ouabain-insensitive sodium transport resulting in net influx. In cells with high intracellular sodium (Na+iH; 0.42 mumol sodium/mg protein) all aspects of sodium transport were increased compared to Na+iL cells. In these cells serum caused no change in sodium-potassium pump activity but significantly increased the ouabain-insensitive sodium fluxes resulting in net efflux. In Na+iL cells, serum promoted net sodium influx through an amiloride-sensitive pathway that was undetectable in the basal state. In Na+iH cells the serum-stimulated net efflux was amiloride sensitive but this pathway also contributed to a major portion of sodium transport in the basal state. This study demonstrated that sodium-potassium pump activity is directed by the supply of internal sodium and that serum can increase this supply by promoting net influx, and that serum-induced sodium transport can be modified by intracellular sodium content.
Import of frog prepropeptide GLa into microsomes requires ATP but does not involve docking protein or ribosomes.	Frog prepropeptide GLa, a precursor to a secretory protein containing 64 amino acids, was processed and imported by dog pancreas microsomes. These events did not depend on either docking protein or on the presence of ribosomes. A hybrid protein between the first 60 amino acids of prepropeptide GLa and an unrelated peptide of 49 amino acids fused to the carboxy terminus, however, behaved like a typical secretory protein precursor with regard to docking protein dependence. This suggests that independence of the need for docking protein, in the case of prepropeptide GLa, can be attributed to the size of the precursor protein. Processing and import of prepropeptide GLa by microsomes were ATP dependent. Therefore, import of proteins into the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) includes an ATP-requiring step not involving a ribosome/ribosome receptor or signal recognition particle (SRP)/docking protein interaction.
Atypical adult GM1 gangliosidosis: biochemical comparison with other forms of primary beta-galactosidase deficiency.	We studied beta-galactosidase in skin fibroblasts from patients with different forms of beta-galactosidase deficiency: adult GM1 gangliosidosis, type 1 GM1 gangliosidosis, and Morquio B syndrome. Enzyme properties in the adult cases differed from the other disorders and also from normal controls. Genetic hybridization studies indicated that all three forms belong to the same complementation group. Therefore, the adult disorder must be due to a mutation of the structural gene for beta-galactosidase, which is allelic to the mutations in type 1 GM1 gangliosidosis and Morquio B syndrome.
Apparent in vivo retroconversion of dietary arachidonic to linoleic acid in essential fatty acid-deficient rats.	Essential fatty acid-deficient rats were fed ethyl [U-14C]arachidonate (308 dpm/nmol) and when a decrease in the transepidermal water loss was seen, the epidermal sphingolipids, acylglucosylceramide and acylceramide were isolated. [14C]Linoleic acid (approx. 130 dpm/nmol) was present in both lipid classes, while the substrate was only detected in the former. These results intimate that in vivo retroconversion of arachidonic to linoleic acid can be induced in the rat.
Formation of dermatan sulfate by cultured human skin fibroblasts. Effects of sulfate concentration on proportions of dermatan/chondroitin.	[3H,35S]Dermatan/chondroitin sulfate glycosaminoglycans produced during culture of fibroblasts in medium containing varying concentrations of sulfate were tested for their susceptibility to chondroitin ABC lyase and chondroitin AC lyase. Chondroitin ABC lyase completely degraded [3H]hexosamine-labeled and [35S] sulfate-labeled dermatan/chondroitin sulfate to disaccharides. Chondroitin AC lyase treatment of the labeled glycosaminoglycans produced different results. With this enzyme, dermatan/chondroitin sulfate formed at high concentrations of sulfate yielded small glycosaminoglycans and larger oligosaccharides but almost no disaccharide. This indicated that the dermatan/chondroitin sulfate co-polymer contained mostly iduronic acid with only an occasional glucuronic acid. As the medium sulfate concentration was progressively lowered, there was a concomitant increase in the susceptibility to degradation by chondroitin AC lyase. Thus, the labeled glycosaminoglycans formed at the lowest concentration of sulfate yielded small oligosaccharides including substantial amounts of disaccharide. The smaller chondroitin AC lyase-resistant [3H,35S]dermatan/chondroitin sulfate oligosaccharides were analyzed by gel filtration. Results indicated that, in general, the iduronic acid-containing disaccharide residues present in the undersulfated [3H,35S]glycosaminoglycan were sulfated, whereas the glucuronic acid-containing disaccharide residues were non-sulfated. This work confirms earlier reports that there is a relationship between epimerization and sulfation. Moreover, it demonstrates that medium sulfate concentration is critical in determining the proportions of dermatan to chondroitin (iduronic/glucuronic acid) produced by cultured cells.
Androgen insensitivity in oligospermic men: a reappraisal.	Androgen insensitivity has been reported to be present in as many as 40% of patients with severe oligospermia. In order to evaluate further the role of androgen resistance in male infertility we studied 24 men with severe oligospermia. Plasma T and LH were measured by RIA and the T X LH product was calculated. Fibroblasts were grown from genital skin obtained during testicular biopsies and androgen receptor maximal binding capacity (BMAX) and affinity (KD) were measured in fibroblast monolayers. Pubic skin 5 alpha-reductase activity, an androgen-dependent enzyme, was measured in skin homogenates. Plasma T values were in the upper normal range [7.0 +/- 1.7 (SEM) ng ml-1] whereas the T X LH product was high (greater than 50) in only six patients. Mean BMAX and KD values for the androgen receptor were normal [BMAX: 788 +/- 259 fmol mg DNA-1 (patients, n = 20), 726 +/- 227 (normal men, n = 20), and KD: 0.27 +/- 0.24 (patients, n = 20), 0.18 +/- 0.09 (normal men, n = 15), respectively]. However, four men had supranormal KD values. The mean BMAX was also normal when the group of men with sperm densities below 10(6) per ejaculate was considered separately. Public skin 5 alpha-reductase activity was normal in all but four patients (patients: 177.1 +/- 91 fmol/mg skin/h, n = 30, normal men: 210 +/- 45, n = 20 patients). In conclusion, androgen receptor BMAX levels were normal in all patients studied, regardless of the sperm density and the T X LH product. Pubic skin 5 alpha-reductase activity was also normal in all but four patients. In these four patients, a qualitative defect of the androgen receptor cannot be excluded. In this group of patients with severe oligospermia, infertility did not seem to be related to quantitative abnormality of the androgen receptor as was previously reported.
Phenothiazines increase active sodium transport across the isolated toad skin.	Fluphenazine (FPZ) and trifluoperazine (TFP) are phenothiazine derivatives commonly used as antipsychotic tranquilizers. Their mechanism of action is incompletely understood. Epidermal addition of each drug promoted biphasic short-circuit current (SCC) changes across isolated pelvic skin of Bufo arenarum toads. By means of radiotracers fluxes, SCC was found to be given by the algebraic sum of net sodium and chloride transport. A readily stimulant effect was detected a low concentrations (from 1 X 10(-6) mol/l up to 1 X 10(-4) mol/l for FPZ, from 1 X 10(-5) mol/l up to 3.2 X 10(-4) mol/l for TFP) above which inhibition prevailed. Dermal FPZ also stimulated SCC. A higher concentration and time threshold were required. Epidermal 1 X 10(-5) mol/l FPZ stimulation was partially reversible, with a diminished membrane resistance and enhancement of sodium influx, without alteration of sodium efflux or net chloride transport. It could be prevented by amiloride pretreatment, or diminished by dermal sodium removal. Variation of epidermal bulk pH from 5.8 to 8.7 demonstrated that ionized and nonionized molecules contribute to FPZ's effect. Our results suggest that SCC stimulation elicited by FPZ and TFP may be a consequence of direct or indirect modifications on apical sodium conductance.
Discrimination and other statistical intervals for the interpretation of in vivo patient monitoring data.	A calibration line is used to define the relationship between a new clinical technique and a standard in vitro laboratory methodology. Discrimination intervals quantify the reliability of inverse estimates obtained from the calibration line. Applied to transcutaneous PCO2 monitoring, a new in vivo measurement, discrimination intervals for inverse estimates of arterial PCO2 range in size from 10 to 50 torr (1.33-6.67 kPa), or more, depending on the values of statistical parameters selected. Discrimination interval analysis shows that the inverse estimates are more reliable near the means. Also, it indicates that the primary value of transcutaneous PCO2 monitoring lies not in providing accurate inverse estimates of arterial PCO2, but instead, in monitoring short-term clinical trends.
Chemistry of the collagen cross-links. Origin and partial characterization of a putative mature cross-link of collagen.	The conversion of the reducible divalent cross-links in collagen to non-reducible multivalent cross-links in mature collagen has resulted in the identification of several new amino acids as the putative mature cross-link. None of these compounds has completely satisfied the necessary criteria. We have now isolated an amino acid of high Mr, derived from lysine, that is only present in high-Mr peptides derived from mature collagen. Its increase with age of the tissue correlates with the decrease in the reducible cross-links, and it is present both in mature skin and bone, which are initially cross-linked through the aldimine and oxo-imine divalent cross-link respectively. We propose that this amino acid, as yet incompletely characterized and designated compound M, is a major cross-link of mature collagen.
Subchronic treatment of rats with aurothioglucose; effects on plasma, hepatic, renal and urinary zinc, copper and metallothionein.	Administration of sodium aurothioglucose (10 mg/kg per day) to female rats for up to 8 weeks resulted in no apparent effects on the kidney. Gold accumulated in kidney, liver, spleen, pancreas, skin and blood. Although plasma and hepatic gold levels increased with time, no remarkable change in either copper, zinc or metallothionein (MT) levels was observed. Gel filtration chromatography of plasma showed binding of gold to albumin, whereas copper was associated with albumin, ceruloplasmin and a protein eluting in the void volume of the Sephadex G-150 column. Almost all of the hepatic gold was bound to proteins other than MT. In the kidney, not only gold but also copper and MT increased rapidly, reached a maximum between 2 and 4 weeks and exhibited insignificant change thereafter. Gold-treated animals showed an increase in binding of copper to the very high molecular weight plasma protein, which may be involved in transport of copper to the kidneys. Urinary gold and MT followed a pattern similar to that in the kidney. Renal zinc also increased but returned to normal by week 8. In renal cytosol 57% and 54% of the gold and copper, respectively, were associated with MT. It appears that the elevated levels of copper and zinc, rather than gold, are responsible for the induction of MT synthesis. This then provides a mechanism by which gold and the inducing metals are retained by the kidney.
7,12-Dimethylbenz[a]anthracene-DNA adducts in mouse skin, dermis and epidermis.	Female NIH Swiss mice were treated topically with either 0.01 or 0.1 mumol 7,12-[3H]dimethylbenz[a]anthracene and DNA was isolated either from the whole skin, the dermis or the epidermis. Levels of binding to DNA and levels of individual adducts formed were similar in all 3 tissue fractions for a given dose of carcinogen with levels for the epidermis being marginally greater than in the other fractions. In all tissue fractions, the syn dihydrodiol epoxide-deoxyribonucleoside adducts were responsible for a greater fraction of total binding at the higher, than at the lower, carcinogen dose. The mechanism of metabolic activation of 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene for DNA binding is, therefore, qualitatively the same in both the dermis and epidermis. Quantification of adducts suggests some subtle differences between the DMBA activating systems in dermis and epidermis.
Low production of procollagen III by skin fibroblasts from patients with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type IV is not caused by decreased levels of procollagen III mRNA.	The Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type IV represents a heterogeneous group of diseases, the molecular defect of which seems to reside in a defective synthesis and processing of collagen III. Here we present data concerning both protein and mRNA levels of collagens I and III in cell cultures established from skin of nine patients and six controls. All patients investigated were characterized by a reduced amount of procollagen III in fibroblast cultures. However, the levels of collagen III propeptides, measured by a radioimmunoassay in culture medium of fibroblasts from the patients, were either decreased or in the range of control levels. Using hybridization with cDNA probes specific for pro alpha 1 (I) and pro alpha 1 (III) collagen chains we determined the ratios of procollagens I and III mRNA. Although synthesis of procollagen III was markedly reduced in fibroblasts of all patients studied, no parallel decrease of procollagen III specific mRNA was found. However, two distinctive groups of patients were identified, one with an unaltered ratio of procollagen I/III mRNA and the other which had an even higher proportion of collagen III mRNA.
Heavy meromyosin binding microfilaments in epidermal cells during wound healing.	Studies have been conducted which demonstrate that heavy meromyosin binds to cortically positioned microfilaments in migrating epidermal cells during early stages of wound healing. This finding demonstrates the presence of actin within these nonmuscle cells and may suggest a role for this contractile protein during epidermal cell migration.
Psoriasis: current concepts in management.	Psoriasis is a chronic, relapsing dermatosis characterised by scaling, erythema, and less commonly pustulation. Although the clinical spectrum is broad and the nature of the underlying defect responsible for the production of psoriasis uncertain, all currently available effective remedies are capable of inhibiting epidermal mitosis and this remains the most widely accepted concept in the management of psoriasis.
Photoaffinity labelling with [3H]R1881 of androgen receptors from human cultured genital fibroblasts of normal individuals and patients with androgen receptor abnormalities.	Androgen receptors were partially purified by affinity chromatography of cytosols prepared from cultured genital fibroblasts of normal individuals and patients with androgen receptor abnormalities. Partially purified receptors were covalently labelled with [3H]R1881 (triated methyltrienolone) by ultraviolet photoactivation. Gel electrophoresis of cytosols from normal individuals showed a single radioactive peak, Mr approximately 97 K. Cytosols from patients with decreased nuclear transfer showed a similar peak, Mr approximately 97 K; cytosols from patients with partial androgen insensitivity (PAIS) or receptor positive complete androgen insensitivity (CAIS, R+) showed a peak Mr approximately 30 K-43 K.
Binding of the androgen receptor to the nuclear matrix of human foreskin.	The nuclear matrix (NM) is a salt and nuclease-resistant nuclear substructure. It is associated with active DNA transcription and has been shown to contain acceptor sites for steroid receptors in a number of specific target tissues. We have investigated the presence of acceptor sites for the androgen receptor (AR) in the NM of human newborn foreskin. The NM was prepared from the 800 g pellet by successive treatments with detergent, DNase and high salt extraction. It contained 13 +/- 7% of total proteins and 10 +/- 6% of total DNA. After extensive washing, the NM spheres were incubated in the presence of cytosol and [3H]methyltrienolone +/- 200-fold excess of unlabeled steroid. Maximal binding of the AR to NM was reached in 30 min and decreased slightly thereafter to reach an equilibrium which was maintained for 18 h. Binding was saturable. In the absence of AR, the steroid did not bind to NM. When Scatchard analysis was performed on cytosol previously incubated with NM, cytosolic binding capacity significantly decreased relative to preincubation values (3.6 +/- 1.9 to 1.3 +/- 1.2 fmol/mg protein, P less than 0.05, n = 6). In contrast, apparent binding affinity was not changed. 0.8 mg of NM protein could bind AR from 2.4 mg of cytosol protein. In conclusion, NM from human foreskin binds the AR with high affinity. This binding is rapid and is maintained for at least 18 h. This is consistent with a potential role of NM in the mechanism of action of androgens in their target tissues.
Epithelial and neural localization and heparin binding of the cell-substratum adhesion molecule, epinectin.	Epinectin, a cell-substratum adhesion promoting molecule, was first isolated from the extracellular matrix of A431 human squamous carcinoma cells. In order to determine the biologic significance of epinectin, we determined the distribution of epinectin in various rat epithelial tissues by indirect immunofluorescence microscopy. Polyclonal antibodies to epinectin stained basal cells and basilar regions of skin, urinary bladder, and vagina. There was predominantly cytoplasmic staining along with amorphous extracellular staining. Strong staining was also noted in sebaceous glands and hair follicles. The immunoreactivity for epinectin in the skin was distinct from that for fibronectin, laminin, and type IV collagen. Antibodies to epinectin also stained subpopulations of neurons in the cerebrum and cerebellum. Epinectin antibodies strongly stained the cytoplasm of some pineal cells and cells of the pars intermedia of the pituitary. The distribution of epinectin suggests a role not only in epithelial cell-substratum adhesion, but in neuronal cell function. Heparan sulfate is known to be involved in the binding of several adhesion promoting molecules to cell surfaces. In order to assess the mechanism of adhesion of epinectin to cells, we measured the binding of 3H-heparin to epinectin. Binding of 3H-heparin was concentration dependent and inhibitable with cold heparin.
Detection of macrophage migration inhibitory factor by monoclonal antibody in Szary syndrome.	We have reported previously on the generation of a monoclonal antibody against human macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF), which is a mediator of cellular immunity. Macrophage migration inhibitory factor activity in the migration assay was closely correlated with antibody reactivity. Using this antibody called 1C5/B, we are now able to study the expression of MIF in situ. Here, we report on the detection of MIF in blood lymphocytes and skin of a patient with a leukemic cutaneous T-cell lymphoma with the characteristics of Szary syndrome. Ninety percent of the patient's Ficoll Hypaque-isolated peripheral white blood cells were of the helper phenotype. By conventional immunoperoxidase method, 94% reacted strongly positive with the antibody 1C5/B. In contrast, using the immunofluorescence method only 25% reacted positive. This indicates that the majority of the tumor cells did not express the molecule on their membrane but only in the cytoplasma. No other marker, such as interleukin 2 receptor, HLA-DR antigen, or interferon-gamma could be related to the expression of MIF. Also the cellular infiltrate in the skin was composed mainly of T helper cells and reacted positive with 1C5/B. As less than 3% of normal blood lymphocytes reacted with 1C5/B we suggest that the conversion to positivity may be a characteristic feature of the leukemic T-cell phenotype in Szary syndrome.
Essential fatty acids and epidermal integrity.	The intercellular spaces of the stratum corneum contain multilamellar lipid sheets derived from the extruded contents of lamellar granules. In the absence of linoleic acid, lamellar granules appear empty, and only fragmentary extracellular sheets are found. This defective differentiation is attributable to substitution of oleate for linoleate in O-acylsphingolipids. Normally, linoleate is ester-linked to 30- to 34-carbon omega-hydroxyacids, which, in turn, are amide-linked to sphingosine. Acylglucosylceramides, bearing a beta-D-glucosyl moiety on the sphingosine, may provide the driving force for lamellar granule assembly. The omega-hydroxyacyl chains are long enough to span a lipid bilayer, while the linoleate inserts into an adjacent bilayer. This interaction could promote assembly of lamellar granules. It has also been proposed that acylceramides may stabilize the extracellular sheets by a similar mechanism. In addition, the horny cell has been found to possess a covalently bound lipid envelope consisting principally of omega-hydroxyacylsphingosines derived from O-acylsphingolipids.
Uses and limitations of the balance technique.	Classical balance techniques are a powerful, sensitive, and usually accurate technique for assessing the nutritional or metabolic response to changes in nutritional intake or to metabolic or physiological perturbations. Balances are particularly sensitive for examining transient or short-term responses to nutritional or metabolic stimuli. A major factor responsible for the precision and sensitivity of this technique is the precise control of the activities and environment of an individual during a classical metabolic balance study (eg, the carefully defined dietary intake, degree of exercise, and environmental temperature to prevent sweating); these same factors may enhance the precision and sensitivity of other metabolic or nutritional investigations that may be carried out concurrently with a balance study. Finally, for nitrogen balance studies, the measurement of nitrogen (eg, by the Kjeldahl technique) can be very accurate and sensitive. Despite these advantages, there are important limitations and errors that are inherent in the balance technique. The errors tend to overestimate intake and underestimate output, thereby leading to erroneously positive balances. These errors include losses of food on cooking and eating utensils and dishware, losses of feces or urine on toilet paper or in collection containers, and losses through sweat, exfoliated skin, hair and nail growth, saliva, menses, blood sampling, toothbrushing, semen, and, for nitrogen, from flatus and respiration. Cumulative balance measurements are particularly likely to be falsely positive. The magnitude of unmeasured losses vary among healthy individuals, with the magnitude of the nitrogen intake (for nitrogen), in altered environmental conditions (eg, with sweating), and possibly in disease states. Balance studies are also expensive and time consuming.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Repair of UV-damaged DNA in mammalian skin followed by the immunohistochemical method.	DNA repair in murine and guinea pig skin has been studied by the immunohistochemical method. For the detection of DNA photolesions in situ by the indirect immunofluorescence (IF) method two antisera directed against DNA-pyrimidine-dimers and DNA-psoralen-photoadducts have been applied. The IF assay enabled to detect the DNA photodamage induced by high UV-doses, exceeding more than fivefold minimal phototoxic response of the skin. It was found that IF staining gradually disappeared due to DNA repair, and at 48 h after UV-exposure both types of the DNA photolesions were no more detectable. Importantly, the IF method revealed that the persistence of DNA-pyrimidine-dimers could be traced for a longer time than that detectable by UV-endonuclease incision method.
Relationship of promagainin to three other prohormones from the skin of Xenopus laevis: a different perspective.	We observed a striking sequence similarity between precursors for promagainin and procaerulein type I (excluding the caerulein peptide region). Additional comparisons of the promagainin precursor with those of other procaeruleins, proxenopsin, and peptide-Gly-Leu-amide revealed that all possess one or more copies of a structurally similar spacer module, from which an amphiphilic spacer peptide is cleaved. Promagainin yields the magainins, spacer peptides with antimicrobial activity; we suggest other spacer peptides may have similar activity. We propose that the genes for the four kinds of hormones were derived from a common ancestral gene through gene and exon duplications and that the procaerulein and proxenopsin genes are mosaic genes in which the original 3'-ends were replaced by exon shuffling.
Bioavailability of topically administered steroids: a "mass balance" technique.	The percutaneous absorption of four steroids (hydrocortisone, estradiol, testosterone, and progesterone) has been measured in vivo in man under occluded and "protected" (i.e., covered, but non-occlusive) conditions. The experimental approach, involving simple modifications of standard radiochemical methodology, has enabled excellent "mass balance" and dose accountability to be achieved. Consequently, the utility of the procedure for the measurement of in vivo topical bioavailability can be inferred. In addition, because of the precision and accountability of the results, the technique offers a potential means to establish quantitative structure-penetration relationships for skin absorption in man. It was found that steroid absorption increased with increasing lipophilicity up to a point, but that penetration of progesterone (the most hydophobic analog studied) did not continue the trend and was at least partly rate-limited by slow interfacial transport at the stratum corneum-viable epidermis boundary. Comparison of data obtained from the occluded and "protected" experiments permitted the effect of occlusion (defined as the complete impairment of passive transepidermal water loss at the application site) to be assessed. Occlusion significantly increased percutaneous absorption of estradiol, testosterone, and progesterone but did not effect the penetration of hydrocortisone. A mechanism is proposed to explain why the absorption of the more lipophilic steroids is enhanced by occlusion but that of the most water-soluble (i.e., hydrocortisone) is not. It is suggested that the rate-determining role of the sequential steps involved in percutaneous absorption can be revealed by experiments of the type described using related series of homologous or analogous chemicals.
Percutaneous absorption of retinoids: influence of vehicle, light exposure, and dose.	The percutaneous absorption characteristics of isotretinoin, etretinate, tretinoin, and acitretin were investigated in vitro to assess the feasibility of their topical application for dermatological disorders. The influence of vehicle, photodegradation, and dose was examined. Retinoid absorption through monkey skin was highly vehicle dependent and followed the order: propylene glycol = isopropyl alcohol greater than mineral oil greater than diisopropyl adipate greater than polyethylene glycol 400. Peak flux of etretinate (an ester) was less than 50% that of the acid retinoids in both human and monkey skin. Exposure to light caused a 60% degradation of isotretinoin on the surface of the skin, but did not change the amount of drug which penetrated the epidermis. In accord with this result, the amount of isotretinoin and acitretin which penetrated epidermis did not increase in proportion to dose over a 25-fold range of dose in human skin. Dermal concentration at doses of 10 micrograms/cm2 of isotretinoin and acitretin were greater than that reported for shave biopsies of human skin following treatment for several months with clinically effective doses of isotretinoin and etretinate (the parent ester of the acid acitretin).
D-[3H]glucosamine labelling of epidermal and dermal glycosaminoglycans in cultured human skin.	An in vitro model is presented for the study of glycosaminoglycans in human skin. The synthesis of six glycosaminoglycan species in both dermis and epidermis was measured by D-[3H]glucosamine labelling. Punched biopsies (epidermis + entire dermis) of 3 mm in diameter were cultured at 37 degrees C in 5% carbon dioxide-95% air. When the label was added 18 h after explantation, the incorporation started immediately, and for all glycosaminoglycans the time-dependent incorporation was linear for 16 h. The experimental variation was minimized by expressing the measurements in epidermis "per explant" and in dermis "per mg of wet explant". A ratio to dermal hydroxyproline did not improve the precision. Most of the variation arose "before" isolation and separation of the glycosaminoglycans. The labelled products were macromolecules and were converted to small molecules by chondroitinase ABC + heparinase. The total incorporation in dermis was 2 1/2 times higher than in epidermis. Hyaluronic acid was the predominant synthesized product in dermis, and hyaluronic acid and heparan sulphate were the predominant products in epidermis. The proportions (%) in dermis/epidermis were as follows: hyaluronic acid, 61/44; heparan sulphate, 18/31; dermatan sulphate, 5/8; chondroitin 4/6-sulphate, 10/7 and heparin-like glycosaminoglycan, 1/2. The same species were also demonstrated as native constituents of uncultured human skin. Hyaluronic acid and dermatan sulphate predominated in dermis, whereas no single species predominated in epidermis. Their concentrations in uronic acid equivalents per mg of wet skin (pmol/mg of epidermis + dermis) were as follows in dermis/epidermis: hyaluronic acid, 243/0.48; heparan sulphate, 22/0.44; dermatan sulphate, 170/0.56; chondroitin 4/6-sulphate, 72/0.50; and heparin-like glycosaminoglycan, 5/0.22. Thus, only 0.4% of the in vivo synthesized glycosaminoglycan was present in epidermis.
Transdermal absorption and topical bioavailability of coumarin.	Coumarin was administered I.V., P.O. and topically to male Sprague-Dawley rats. The concentration-time profile after I.V. administration could be best described by an open-two compartment model. After P.O. administration the fraction of drug absorbed was 0.21 +/- 0.08 (S.D.). 1 g of hydrophilic ointment (U.S.P. XIX) containing 5% w/w of coumarin was applied on the shaven back skin. When the area of application was 4.91 cm2 the drug was absorbed in a zero-order fashion. The fraction of administered drug absorbed in 6 h was 0.086 +/- 0.02 (S.D.). Increasing the area of application to 30.0 cm2 resulted in deviation from the zero-order absorption characteristic. This is attributed to decrease in the concentration gradient as more drug is absorbed and to the change in formulation characteristics as a function of time. The fraction of drug absorbed in 24 h was 0.66 +/- 0.21 (S.D.).
Neonatal seizures and retardation in a girl with biochemical features of X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy: a possible new peroxisomal disease entity.	Neonatal hypotonia, seizures beginning at 5 days, and severe retardation were noted in a girl with normal karyotype and biochemical evidence of impaired adrenal function. Postmortem examination at 14 months revealed malformative and destructive lesions of central gray and white matter, atrophy of adrenal cortex with striated adrenocortical cells, hepatic fibrosis, and PAS-positive macrophages in several organs. Pathologically and clinically, this patient most closely approximated neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD) and differed strikingly from X-linked childhood ALD. In contrast, biochemical changes resembled the abnormalities observed in X-linked ALD and differed from those in the neonatal form. The very-long-chain fatty acid accumulation characteristic of both disorders was demonstrated, but unlike neonatal ALD, the levels or metabolism of plasmalogens, pipecolic acid, phytanic acid, and bile acid intermediates were normal, and peroxisomes in a liver biopsy specimen were present in normal number and appeared enlarged. While the case resembles the recently reported entity of peroxisomal acyl-CoA oxidase deficiency, assignment to this category was excluded by immunoblot studies on postmortem liver, which revealed normal amounts of this enzyme. Correlation of clinical, morphologic, and biochemical data suggests that this case is an example of a so-far undescribed entity, and reinforces the concept that the phenotypic spectrum of peroxisomal disorders is wider than realized.
Multisystem triglyceride storage disease is due to a specific defect in the degradation of endocellularly synthesized triglycerides.	We studied two unrelated patients with autosomal recessive multisystem triglyceride storage disease. Cultured fibroblasts accumulated 10 times more triglyceride than controls under glycerol or palmitate feeding. Mutant fibroblasts could not degrade accumulated triglycerides of endogenous origin, but normally degraded endogenously synthesized phospholipids. When the cells were fed with exogenous olein, triglyceride catabolism was in the normal range. Oxidation of long-chain, medium-chain, and short-chain fatty acids was normal, and the activities of acidic, neutral, and alkaline lipase in cell extracts were normal. The disease seems to be due to a specific impairment in the degradation of triglycerides synthesized endogenously.
Determination of the range in binding-site densities of rat skin heparin chains with high binding affinities for antithrombin.	Rat skin heparin proteoglycans vary markedly in the proportions of their constituent polysaccharide chains that have high binding affinity for antithrombin. As the proportion of such chains in a proteoglycan rises, their degree of affinity for antithrombin also increases [Horner (1987) Biochem. J. 244, 693-698]. The antithrombin-binding-site densities of such chains have now been determined, by measuring heparin-induced enhancement of the intrinsic fluorescence of antithrombin and by chemical analysis for the disaccharide sequence glucuronosyl-N-sulphoglucosaminyl (3,6-di-O-sulphate), which is unique to this site in heparin [Lindahl, Bckstrm, Thunberg & Leder (1980) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 77, 6551-6555]. Antithrombin-binding-site density ranged from one to five sites per chain.
Assembly of type I collagen fibrils de novo. Between 37 and 41 degrees C the process is limited by micro-unfolding of monomers.	The effects of temperature on the assembly of collagen fibrils were examined in a system in which collagen monomers are generated de novo and in a physiological buffer by specific enzymic cleavage of type I pC-collagen, an intermediate in the normal processing of type I procollagen to type I collagen. Increasing the temperature of the reaction in the range of 29-35 degrees C decreased the turbidity lag and increased the rate of propagation as assayed by turbidity. The effect of temperature on the turbidity propagation rate gave a linear Arrhenius plot with a negative slope. The predicted value of the activation energy of propagation was 113 kJ/mol. However, the effects of temperature on the rate of assembly above 37 degrees C were opposite to the effects seen at temperatures below 37 degrees C. In the range of 37-41 degrees C, the turbidity propagation rate decreased markedly with temperature. Also, the turbidity lag increased. Therefore, much longer times were required for monomers to reach equilibrium with fibrils. A large fraction of the collagen monomers remaining in solution at temperatures above 37 degrees C was sensitive to rapid digestion by trypsin and alpha-chymotrypsin. Cooling the solutions to 25 degrees C made the monomers resistant to protease digestion. The results are consistent with the conclusion that, although formation of collagen fibrils is a classical example of an entropy-driven process of self-assembly, the rate of assembly between 37 and 41 degrees C is limited by reversible micro-unfolding of the monomer.
Recombinant basic fibroblast growth factor accelerates wound healing.	Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) stimulates extracellular matrix metabolism, growth, and movement of mesodermally derived cells. We have previously shown that collagen content in polyvinyl alcohol sponges increased after bFGF treatment. We hypothesized that bFGF-treated incisional wounds would heal more rapidly. After intraperitoneal pentobarbital anesthesia, male, 200- to 250-g, Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 27) each underwent two sets of paired, transverse, dorsal incisions closed with steel sutures. On Day 3 postwounding, 0.4 ml of bFGF (recombinant, 400 ng. Synergen) or normal saline was injected into one of each paired incisions. Animals were killed with ether on postwounding Days 5, 6, and 7 and their dorsal pelts were excised. Fresh or formalin-fixed wound strips were subjected to tensile strength measurements using a tensiometer. Breaking energy was calculated. Wound collagen content (hydroxyproline) was measured in wound-edge samples following hydrolysis using high-performance liquid chromatography. There was an overall significant increase in fresh wound tensile strength (13.7 +/- 1.06 vs 19.1 +/- 1.99 g/mm, P less than 0.01) and wound breaking energy (476 +/- 47 vs 747 +/- 76 mm2, P less than 0.001) in bFGF-treated incisions. There was an increase in wound collagen content which was not statistically significant and there was no difference in fixed incisional tensile strength. Histologic examination showed better organization and maturation in bFGF wounds. Recombinant bFGF accelerates normal rat wound healing. This may be due to earlier accumulation of collagen and fibroblasts and/or to greater collagen crosslinking in bFGF-treated wounds.
Comparison of skin surface fluorescence and fluorescein tissue concentration with the dermatofluorometer.	Recently sodium fluorescein has been used to determine viability of tissue and assess blood flow. No study, however, has documented the correlation of surface fluorescence as measured by the dermatofluorometer with the actual distribution of fluorescein in tissue. Abdominal skin flaps were raised on Sprague-Dawley rats. Following intravenous injection of sodium fluorescein, skin surface fluorescence was measured and compared with tissue fluorescein concentration. This study confirms that skin surface fluorescence correlates well with actual fluorescein distribution in tissue. Furthermore, the study clearly illustrates the statistically significant variation of surface fluorescence as a function of distance from the vascular pedicle.
Muscle tissue oxygen pressure in primary fibromyalgia.	Trigger points in painful muscle are a characteristic sign in patients with primary fibromyalgia. The MDO oxygen electrode was used to evaluate oxygenation in the subcutaneous tissue and in trigger points in the trapezius and brachioradial muscles. Ten patients and 8 normal controls were studied. The results in the patients were abnormal, with scattered or slalom-slope histograms, indicating low tissue oxygenation. The controls were normal, except in one case. The conclusion is that in patients with primary fibromyalgia, the muscle oxygenation is abnormal or low, at least in the trigger point area of the muscles.
Altered chloride metabolism in cultured cystic fibrosis skin fibroblasts.	An abnormal regulation of chloride permeability has been described for epithelial cells from patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). To learn more about the biochemical basis of this inherited disease, we have studied chloride metabolism in cultured CF fibroblasts by comparing the efflux of 36Cl- from matched pairs of CF and normal fibroblasts. The rate constants describing 36Cl- efflux did not differ between the two cell types, but in each of the four pairs tested the amount of 36Cl- contained within CF cells was consistently reduced, by 25-30%, relative to normal cells. Comparisons of cell water content and 22Na+ efflux showed no differences between the two cell types, suggesting that overall intracellular chloride concentration is lower than normal in CF fibroblasts. Such data suggest that the CF gene defect is expressed in skin fibroblasts and that this defect may alter the regulation of intracellular Cl- concentration, perhaps through changes in Cl- permeability.
Mercury release, distribution and excretion from subcutaneously implanted conventional and high-copper amalgam powders in the guinea pig.	With both types of amalgam there was initial loss of material during healing of the implantation wounds. The rate of Hg release from the healed lesion was estimated by linear regression analysis of the content of implants when removed sequentially over 2 years. There were no significant differences between the amalgams, when expressed in absolute terms or as a percentage of the Hg content of the lesions immediately after healing, probably because gamma 1 (Ag2Hg3) phase breakdown was largely or solely responsible for Hg release with both materials. Hg levels in the blood, liver, renal cortex and faeces were all significantly lower with high-Cu amalgam which might be explained by the interference by Cu with Hg retention. There was no significant difference in urinary Hg excretion by the two groups of animals over the greater part of the study.
Lysinuric protein intolerance mutation is expressed in the plasma membrane of cultured skin fibroblasts.	Lysinuric protein intolerance (LPI) is an autosomal recessive phenotype consistent with impaired transport of cationic amino acids at the basolateral membrane of intestinal and renal epithelia. On the assumption that the basolateral membrane of epithelial cells and plasma membrane of parenchymal cells are functional analogues, we studied transport of cationic amino acids by cultured skin fibroblasts from LPI and control subjects matched for age, sex, and site of biopsy. We measured Na+-independent transport of radiolabeled lysine, arginine, ornithine, and homoarginine on system y+, the carrier with preference for cationic amino acids, and leucine transport on system L (as the internal control). LPI cells had increased net uptake of cationic amino acids (nmol/mg of protein) relative to leucine. LPI cells also maintained increased steady-state intracellular pools of cationic amino acids. Neither increased metabolic utilization nor increased pool size were responsible for high uptake of cationic amino acids in LPI cells. We then measured trans-stimulated efflux of homoarginine as a specific test of system y+ activity. Homoarginine efflux was significantly impaired in LPI cells (P less than 0.05), whereas leucine efflux was similar in LPI and control cells. Percent trans-stimulation of homoarginine efflux was 1.0 +/- 0.5% in homozygous LPI cells, 10 +/- 0.5% in heterozygous cells, and 22 +/- 0.5% in control cells indicating a gene-dosage effect. The LPI mutation affects system y+ asymmetrically, selectively impairing efflux in fibroblast plasma membrane. To our knowledge, this appears to be the first demonstration that the skin fibroblast can be used to study a corresponding transport defect in intestinal and renal membranes.
Microelectrode study of intracellular pH in frog skin: dependence on serosal chloride.	Replacement of external chloride has been known to reduce Na+ transport across whole frog skin. However, the sidedness and mechanism of the phenomenon have been unclear. In the present study, transepithelial current (IT), transepithelial resistance (RT), and basolateral membrane potential measured both with reference micropipettes (psi sc) and pH-selective microelectrodes (EscH) were monitored in isolated epithelial sheets from frog skin; removal of the underlying dermis facilitates ionic exchange across the basolateral membranes. The intracellular hydronium ion activity (acH) was 58 +/- 4 nM (means +/- SE) when the extracellular hydronium activity was 25 +/- 1 nM under base-line conditions. This measurement is equivalent to an intracellular pH (pHc) of 7.24 +/- 0.03 at an extracellular pH of 7.60 +/- 0.01, in reasonable agreement with estimates obtained by 31P- and 19F-nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) analyses of frog skin. Complete replacement of mucosal Cl- by gluconate had variable effects on tissue current and resistance from preparation to preparation. The same ionic substitution on the serosal side uniformly produced a prompt reversible decrease in IT, increase in RT, and a substantial membrane depolarization of the short-circuited skins. In most of the preparations, the depolarization was preceded by a small hyperpolarization of 0.5-3.5 mV. The replacement of serosal Cl- also produced a fall in intracellular hydronium ion activity of 33 +/- 10 nM. The present date are consistent with the concept that serosal replacement of Cl- alkalinizes the cells by either favoring HCO3- entry or blocking HCO3- exit through a Cl- HCO3 antiport at the basolateral membrane.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Fibroblast heterogeneity in scleroderma: Clq studies.	Fibroblast heterogeneity has been the basis of a pathogenetic theory of scleroderma in which one subpopulation of high collagen producing cells is expanded by selective growth. In studies by others using gingival cells, fibroblast membrane Clq receptor affinity correlates positively with collagen production. We have demonstrated distinctly higher amounts of Clq binding of fibroblasts from 2 patients with early scleroderma compared to late scleroderma and controls. These observations are consistent with the overgrowth of a normally occurring subpopulation of cells and provide support for clonal selection in the pathogenesis of scleroderma.
Effect of Ba2+ and furosemide on K+ and Rb+ secretion and absorption in isolated frog skin.	The aim of the present investigation was to explore whether in isolated frog skin there should be different pathways for K+ absorption and secretion. Therefore, the unidirectional fluxes of 42K+ and the K+-like isotope 86Rb+ were measured. By using various transport inhibitors, separate pathways for active K+ absorption and secretion were detected. The data obtained indicate that the transepithelial K+ and Rb+ transport across isolated frog skin is made up of four different components: one passive and three active. One of the active components is directed from the apical to the basolateral solution, whereas the other two are in the opposite direction. The direction of the net K+ transport depends on the activities of these three active transport components. The active uptake mechanism, which is present in the epithelial cells, discriminates between K+ and Rb+. The ratio between the K+ and Rb+ influxes, K/Rb, is about 3. The presence of Ba2+, furosemide or ouabain in the apical solution had no effect on the K+ influx. The active secretion of K+ takes place via two different pathways, namely the skin glands and the epithelial cells. The K+ secretion via the glands is inhibited by furosemide (basolateral), but is unaffected by Ba2+ (apical) and does not discriminate between K+ and Rb+. The active K+ secretion via the epithelial cells is blocked by apical Ba2+, and it discriminates between K+ and Rb+. The ratio between the K+ and Rb+ effluxes is about 2. The data presented show that the K+ channels in the apical and the basolateral membrane of the epithelial cells discriminate between K+ and Rb+.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Partial purification and characterization of serum protease from tumor-bearing rats which cleaves type IV collagen.	Activity of neutral protease was increased in sera of rats bearing ascites hepatoma AH109A compared to those of normal rats. The protease was isolated from serum protein and partially purified approximately 1,150 times in specific activity after sequential column chromatography of hemoglobin affinity, lysine-Sepharose, Ultrogel AcA34 and TSK-gel G2000SW in that order. The protease fraction still seemed to contain at least two kinds of proteases, serine and cysteine protease. It had a molecular weight of 18-21 kilodaltons with broad optimal pH range of 7.0-9.0, maximum at 8.0. Intradermal injection of the crude preparation of the neutral protease fraction induced extravascular emigration of circulating tumor cells in vivo. Moreover, partially purified protease degraded pepsin-treated chains of bovine glomerular type IV collagen in vitro, but such an in vitro action of the protease was inhibited by an addition of soybean trypsin inhibitor or mercuric chloride. It failed to cleave salt-extracted rat skin type I collagen under the same digestive conditions for bovine type IV collagen. The serum neutral proteases of tumor-bearing host may play some cooperative roles during extravascular emigration of tumor cells by destruction of vascular basement membrane.
In vitro percutaneous penetration and metabolism of [3H]T-2 toxin: comparison of human, rabbit, guinea pig and rat.	The purpose of this research was to determine which species of laboratory animal provided the best approximation of in vitro percutaneous penetration and metabolism of T-2 in humans. The [3H]T-2 which penetrated discs of skin after 48 hr (expressed as per cent of dose, 581 ng/cm2) was 1.0, 1.4, 2.8 and 9.7% for the human, rabbit, guinea pig and rat when the vehicle was methanol. The penetration was 29.2, 19.6, 51.9 and 52.6% for the human, rabbit, guinea pig and rat when the vehicle was DMSO. When 2 concentrations were compared, 79 ng/cm2 and 581 ng/cm2 (the vehicle was methanol), the higher dose caused a significant (P less than 0.05) increase in the per cent of dose which penetrated human and guinea pig skin. Metabolism was extensive in the human, rabbit, and rat, with the main metabolite being HT-2 toxin. Previous studies comparing human to monkey indicated penetration in these 2 species was different when methanol was the vehicle. This study indicates that the rabbit provides the best approximation of human skin, both in terms of penetration kinetics and metabolic activity.
Characterization of lectin binding by psoriatic epidermis--dependence on pH]	The binding of five different lectins by normal as well as psoriatic lesional epidermis was investigated with regard to its dependence on the pH value. As we studied the reactions within the pH range of 3.0 to 9.66, we obtained the following results: lectin binding almost independent from pH (FITC-Con A, -PHA, HPA), fluorescence intensity dependent on pH (TRITC-Con A, FITC-LCA, -GCA), binding pattern dependent on pH (FITC-LCA, GCA). In contrast to normal epidermis, there was no pH dependence of the FITC-GCA binding pattern in psoriatic lesional epidermis.
Stimulation of fatty acid uptake and triglyceride synthesis in human cultured skin fibroblasts and adipocytes by a serum protein.	Lipoprotein deficient serum has been shown to enhance lipid synthesis in cultured normal human skin fibroblasts incubated in the presence of oleate-albumin. The factor responsible is nondialyzable and trypsin sensitive. The stimulation is proportional to the concentration of lipoprotein deficient serum in the media and is present at all oleate concentrations and incubation times assayed. The protein has been partially purified by column chromatography to yield a Peak II fraction which stimulates triglyceride synthesis in both fibroblasts and isolated human adipocytes. The stimulation is dependent on the concentration of protein fraction and increases to an apparent saturation level of 200% in fibroblasts. Triglyceride synthesis, however, increases to a much greater extent in adipocytes and did not demonstrate saturation at the maximum Peak II protein concentration assayed. These results suggest that human serum contains a protein which stimulates fatty acid uptake and esterification by adipose tissue.
Photodynamic therapy with phthalocyanine sensitisation: quantitative studies in a transplantable rat fibrosarcoma.	Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a promising approach to the local destruction of malignant tumours, but little work has been done to determine which factors control the extent of tissue necrosis produced. Using a new photosensitiser, a sulphonated aluminium phthalocyanine (AlSPc) and light from an argon ion pumped dye laser at 675 nm, we quantified the effects of interstitial PDT in a transplantable fibrosarcoma in rats. At 100mW laser power, thermal effects were comparable to those of PDT, so subsequent studies were carried out at 50 mW, where thermal effects were minimal. The depth of PDT necrosis increased with the logarithm of the applied energy. Tissue concentration of AlSPc was measured by alkali extraction and at all times after sensitisation, correlated well with the necrosis produced with a given light dose. Peak tumour concentration of AlSPc occurred 24-48 h after sensitisation compared with a peak at 3 h in muscle. The peak ratio tumour:muscle was 2:1 at 24 h. Apart from a different time interval to reach the peak sensitiser concentration, the extent of tumour damage varied with the light and sensitiser parameters in a similar way to that found in normal liver, although the optical penetration depth was greater in the tumour (2.5 mm vs. 1.8 mm). At doses of AlSPc below 1 mg kg-1 the diameter of necrosis increased with the logarithm of the dose of sensitiser, and doubling the dose from 0.25 to 0.5 mg kg-1 increased the depth of necrosis by 50%. However, at higher doses, the changes were smaller and increasing the dose from 2.5 to 5 mg kg-1 only increased the necrosis by 10% for the same light dose. In all dose ranges, a given percentage increase in the tissue concentration of AlSPc gave a much smaller percentage increase in the extent of necrosis for the same light dose, suggesting that selectivity of necrosis between tumour and normal tissue is likely to be much less than the selectivity of retention of the photosensitiser. From these results, the extent of PDT necrosis in this fibrosarcoma is as predictable as it is in normal liver if the light dose, tissue concentration of AlSPc and optical penetration depth of the tissue are known. Further studies are now required on different tumour models to establish how tumours respond compared with adjacent normal tissue when the tumour is growing in its organ of origin rather than the non-physiological situation using a transplantable tumour as in this study.
Hydration studies on scaly hand eczema.	Transepidermal water loss (TEWL) and electrical conductance by a high-frequency (3.5 MHz) method were measured in 20 patients with chronic scaly hand eczema. Eczematous skin was compared with uninvolved skin of the same anatomical region. TEWL of eczematous skin was increased in all patients. In contrast, the conductance was decreased in all patients except for one, who showed equal values in pathological and uninvolved skin. This indicates that the water-holding capacity of eczematous skin is reduced. There was no correlation between clinical grading of scaling, and TEWL and electrical conductance. TEWL and conductance were not correlated, and the 2 methods are therefore supplementary for assessment of eczema and scaling. TEWL may be useful for monitoring the primary effect of therapy, and conductance for the final documentation of healing.
Scleromyxedema: systemic manifestations and cosmetic improvement from dermabrasion.	A case of progressive scleromyxedema is described in a 61-year-old man. He was treated with dermabrasion of the nose and forehead, which resulted in cosmetic improvement. The patient had systemic symptoms including transient aphasia, memory loss, near-syncopal episodes, and respiratory difficulty following treatment.
Elevated pro alpha 2(I) collagen mRNA levels in cultured scleroderma fibroblasts result from an increased transcription rate of the corresponding gene.	Fibroblasts cultured from affected and unaffected skin sites of three scleroderma patients were studied for the activation of type I collagen gene expression. Dot blot hybridizations with pro alpha 2(I) collagen specific cDNA probe revealed 2.9-4.8-fold increases in pro alpha 2(I) mRNA levels in the affected fibroblasts over the unaffected control cells. Transcription rate of the pro alpha 2(I) gene in the nuclei isolated from the same cells was 2.0-3.7-fold higher in the scleroderma fibroblasts than in the controls. The results show that scleroderma fibroblasts have undergone activation of collagen gene expression at the transcriptional level, which subsequently results in elevated procollagen mRNA levels, overproduction of collagen, and development of dermal fibrosis.
Fibroblasts of an acrogeria patient produce normal amounts of type I and III collagen.	An 11-year-old patient with clinically typical acrogeria is presented. She had wrinkled 'old-appearing' acral skin, thin skin on the whole integument, grooved tip of nose, mottled hyperpigmentation of fold regions and thickened dystrophic toe nails. Histologically, the epidermis was flattened, dermis thinned and the connective tissue densely packed with very few cellular elements. Electron microscopic examination revealed partially abnormal collagen fibers with varying caliber, degenerated elastic fibers and dystrophic fibroblasts. The patient's fibroblasts produced normal amounts of apparently normal type I and III collagen as analyzed after radioactive labeling. Also, the levels of cytoplasmic mRNA for both of these collagens were similar in acrogeria and control cells.
Androgen binding in the skin of mature male brown trout, Salmo trutta L.	Specific, saturable binding of [3H]testosterone (Kd = 12.5 nM, Nmax = 1.1 pmol mg-1 protein) has been identified in skin cytosol of mature male brown trout. Binding with this affinity and capacity resembles more closely that observed in the plasma of mature male brown trout (Kd = 20.6 nM, Nmax = 6.6 pmol mg-1 protein) than that expected of a specific steroid receptor. However, the fraction of skin cytosol precipitating with 30% ammonium sulphate has a higher affinity for testosterone (Kd = 1.9 nM) and a lower capacity (Nmax = 96.3 fmol mg-1 protein) than does whole cytosol. Furthermore, the high-salt extract of crude skin nuclear pellet binds [3H]testosterone with affinity (Kd = 1.3 nM) and capacity (Nmax = 69.4 fmol mg-1 protein) similar to those of ammonium sulphate-precipitated cytosol. Specific binding in all three fractions of skin is abolished by treatment with proteolytic enzymes and a component of both cytosol and nuclear extract, which binds [3H]testosterone specifically, is retained on DNA-cellulose columns, eluting with high-salt buffer. Specifically bound [3H]testosterone is displaced most efficiently by testosterone. 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone, estradiol-17 beta, and 11-ketotestosterone also compete but are 5- to 10-fold less potent. Consistent and reproducible binding of [3H]11-ketotestosterone to skin cytosol fractions or nuclear extract could not be demonstrated. It is concluded that testosterone binding with the above characteristics partially fulfills the criteria required of a putative steroid hormone receptor. The results are discussed with reference to the relative roles of testosterone and 11-ketotestosterone during sexual maturation.
Development of neural receptors for serotonin in the murine bowel.	During the ontogeny of the enteric nervous system, the varicosities of mature neurons contact dividing neural precursors, which persist in the developing murine gut for several weeks postnatally. This phenomenon has led to the hypothesis that the release of transmitter from mature neurons may influence the subsequent development of uncommitted neuroblasts. In order to test this hypothesis, it is necessary to know the timing of the expression of postsynaptic receptors for enteric neurotransmitters. Since serotoninergic neurons are among the earliest of enteric neurons to develop (appearing on day E12 of development in the mouse), the ontogeny of enteric neural serotonin receptors (5-HTR) was studied. These receptors have previously been characterized in adult guinea pigs and rabbits. In the current experiments, 5-HTR were identified in the adult murine bowel; their properties were compared with the 5-HTR of guinea pig and rabbits; their ontogeny was followed throughout the length of the developing mouse gut; and the properties of 5-HTR in the developing murine bowel were compared with those of the mature gut. The 5-HTR were assayed by measuring the binding of 3H-serotonin (3H-5-HT) to isolated enteric membranes by rapid filtration, and to frozen sections of bowel by radioautography. A single saturable, high affinity 3H-5-HT binding site was found in membranes from the adult mouse gut (KD = 3.9 +/- 0.5 nM; Bmax = 1.6 +/- 0.3 pmoles/mg protein). Binding of 3H-5-HT at this site was not antagonized by compounds known to be antagonists at receptors for other neurotransmitters or at the 5-HT1 or 5-HT2 class of CNS 5-HTR. Hydroxylation of the indole ring of analogues of serotonin was required for affinity at the enteric 3H-5-HT binding site. Binding of 3H-5-HT was inhibited by N-acetyl-5-hydroxytryptophyl-5-hydroxytryptophan dipeptide, a compound that has been demonstrated to antagonize those responses of myenteric neurons to serotonin that resemble slow excitatory postsynaptic potentials, but not by ICS 205-930 (Sandoz), a serotonin antagonist that does not block these responses. All of these properties of adult murine 3H-5-HT binding sites are virtually identical of those of guinea pigs and rabbits, which have previously been shown to be 5-HTR; therefore, murine enteric 3H-5-HT binding sites are probably 5-HTR as well.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Evidence for histamine in the urticating hairs of Hylesia moths.	An urticarial dermatosis after contact with the urticating hairs of the adult female Hylesia moth may occur by several mechanisms including the intradermal injection of inflammatory mediators through the urticating hairs. Extracts were prepared from whole moths, urticating hairs, and other moth parts. Each of these extracts was subjected to a radioenzyme assay for histamine. Histamine was present in extracts made from whole moths and from urticating hairs. Extracts made from other moth parts contained no histamine. Cutaneous wheals occurred after intradermal injections of histamine and various concentrations of Hylesia extract (HE) into the backs of cynomolgus monkeys. This whealing response was suppressed by pretreatment of the animals with diphenhydramine hydrochloride, but not by pretreatment with indomethacin. Histologic examinations showed a perivascular lymphocytic infiltrate around dilated capillaries without evidence of mast cell degranulation in HE-injected sites but not in controls. These findings provide evidence that histamine may be the mediator responsible for the urticarial lesions seen after contact with Hylesia moths.
Ultrastructure: effects of melanin pigment on target specificity using a pulsed dye laser (577 nm).	It has been shown recently that brief pulses of 577 nm radiation from the tunable dye laser are absorbed selectively by oxyhemoglobin. This absorption is associated with highly specific damage to superficial vascular plexus blood vessels in those with lightly pigmented (type I-II) skin. To determine whether pigmentary differences in the overlying epidermis influence this target specificity, we exposed both type I (fair) and type V (dark) normal human skin to varying radiant exposure doses over 1.5-microsecond pulse durations from the tunable dye laser at a wavelength of 577 nm. Using ultrastructural techniques, we found in type I skin that even clinical subthreshold laser exposures caused reproducible alterations of erythrocytes and adjacent dermal vascular endothelium without comparable damage to the overlying epidermis. In contrast, degenerated epidermal basal cells represented the predominant form of cellular damage after laser exposure of type V skin at comparable doses. We conclude that epidermal melanin and vascular hemoglobin are competing sites for 577 nm laser absorption and damage, and that the target specificity of the 577 nm tunable dye laser is therefore influenced by variations in epidermal pigmentation. This finding is relevant to the clinical application of the tunable dye laser in the ablative treatment of vascular lesions. We also found on ultrastructure that the presence of electron-lucent circular structures of approximately 800 A in diameter were observed only at and above clinical threshold doses in those with type I skin and at the highest dose of 2.75 J/cm2 in type V skin. It has been proposed that these structures might be heat-fixed molds of water vapor. Both this and ultrastructural changes of epidermal basal cells demonstrate mechanisms responsible for alteration of tissue after exposure to 577 nm, which are discussed.
Enhanced integumental and ocular amelanosis following the termination of cyclosporine administration.	The Smyth delayed amelanotic line of chickens display symptoms commonly associated with human vitiligo. Administration of the immunosuppressive compound, cyclosporine, significantly delayed the mean age of onset and incidence of integumental pigment losses in this mutant line of vitiliginous chickens. Associated ocular pathology was also less severe in treated chicks. Termination of cyclosporine administration resulted in enhanced integumental and choroidal amelanosis, choroidal inflammation, and chorioretinal damage beyond that observed in nontreated controls. These results suggest that withdrawal of cyclosporine in treatment of this spontaneous autoimmune disease may exacerbate associated symptoms.
Glucosylsterol and acylglucosylsterol of snake epidermis: structure determination.	The structures of two classes of glycolipids, acylglucosylsterol and glucosylsterol, from snake epidermis have been determined by chemical, spectroscopic, and gas-liquid chromatographic methods. The acylglucosylsterol consists of a glucose molecule attached to cholesterol and an ester-linked fatty acid on carbon 6 of the sugar. The major ester-linked fatty acids are palmitic, stearic, and oleic. The glucosylsterol consists of glucose attached to cholesterol. These unusual glycolipids may play a role in epidermal barrier function in snakes and it is concluded that these sterol glycosides may remain in the reptiles as a vestige of a more primitive barrier-forming mechanism.
Role of stratum corneum lipid fluidity in transdermal drug flux.	Fatty acids are effective penetration enhancers for the transdermal delivery of certain co-applied drugs. In order to assess the mechanism of enhancement, spectrometric, calorimetric, and flux techniques were used to study porcine stratum corneum following treatment with a series of cis- and trans-positional isomers of octadecenoic acid. Results obtained from spectrometric and calorimetric measurements show increased lipid fluidity following treatment of the stratum corneum with the cis monoenoic acids which have the site of unsaturation centrally located. Under similar conditions, these same cis monounsaturated acids resulted in enhancement of salicyclic acid flux through porcine skin. The striking parallelism between flux and fluidity measurements suggests that transdermal drug flux may be ultimately related to stratum corneum lipid structure.
Comparison of the penetration of 14 pesticides through the skin of young and adult rats.	In vivo percutaneous absorption of 14 pesticides was studied in young (33-d-old) and adult (82-d-old) female Fischer 344 rats, at three different dose levels. Carbon-14-labeled pesticides in acetone were applied to previously clipped middorsal skin. The treatment area was 2-3% of the body surface area. Penetration of the pesticides during a 72-h period ranged from approximately 1%-90%, depending on compound, dose, and age of animal. No clear age-related pattern of dermal absorption among compounds was found. Only chlordecone, folpet, and permethrin did not show significant age-dependent differences in skin penetration. Atrazine, carbaryl, chlorpyrifos, and hexachloro-biphenyl had greater absorption in the young, while carbofuran, captan, dinoseb, DSMA, MSMA nicotine, and parathion displayed greater absorption in the adult. The majority of the compounds showed dose-dependent penetration. The dose-response curves for penetration were not parallel for 8 of the 14 compounds studied.
Production of 3 alpha-androstanediol glucuronide in human genital skin.	3 alpha-Androstanediol glucuronide (3 alpha diol-G) is produced extrasplanchnically and is a good clinical marker of androgen action in peripheral tissues. However, the direct formation of androgen glucuronides in peripheral sites such as skin has not been determined in man. Genital skin from 21 premenopausal women and 8 men and foreskin from 6 neonates were incubated with either [14C]testosterone [14C]dihydrotestosterone (DHT) to determine the production of DHT glucuronide and 3 alpha diol-G in skin. After hydrolysis of incubation medium with glucuronidase, followed by extraction and sequential chromatography, constant 3H to 14C ratios of 3 alpha diol confirmed the production of DHT glucuronide and 3 alpha diol-g. The conversion of DHT to 3 alpha diol-G was higher than the conversion from testosterone (P less than 0.05), and conversion was higher in men than in women. These data provide evidence for the direct formation of C19 steroid glucuronides by human skin.
Permissive role of n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids on carbohydrate oxidation in human infant skin fibroblasts: one possible mechanism of their intervention on coronary heart disease and diabetes.	Many publications indicate the beneficial effect of n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-6 PUFAs) in the control of coronary heart disease and diabetes, although the mechanism is not clear. Some of our previous results suggest that, in contrast to other lipids, n-6 PUFAs could have a permissive effect on carbohydrate oxidation. To check this hypothesis, we determined pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH, decarboxylase: EC 1.2.4.1) activity in infant skin fibroblasts (ISF) incubated 6 hours in the presence of 0.25 mM linoleic (LI) or arachidonic (AR) acid, compared to oleic acid (OL) and control ISF incubated without addition of fatty acids. The four groups of cells were preincubated 36 hours either in the presence of fetal bovine serum (FBS), or in the presence of lipoprotein-deprived serum (LPDS).
Extracellular correction of the androgen-receptor transformation defect in two families with complete androgen resistance.	We have characterized the cellular and extracellular phenotype of the mutant androgen receptor (AR) from two families who have complete androgen resistance despite a normal androgen-binding capacity (Bmax) in their genital skin fibroblasts (GSF). The cellular receptors fail to up-regulate their basal AR activity in response to prolonged incubation with 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone (DHT), or with two synthetic androgens, methyltrienolone (MT) and mibolerone (MB), and form A-R complexes with increased equilibrium (Kd) and non-equilibrium (k) dissociation constants. In addition, they are thermolabile when recently dissociated, but not in their native state. A-R complexes made in normal or mutant cytosol at 4 degrees C elute from DEAE-Sephacel at approximately 0.25 M KCl (untransformed), with or without prior passage through Sephadex G-25; when made in cells at 37 degrees C, extracted with 0.4 M KCl in a buffer containing 10 mM Na2MoO4, and desalted by G-25, they elute at less than or equal to 0.1 M KCl. Normal KCl-extracted DHT- and MB-R complexes dissociate (37 degrees C) at the same slow, linear rate as their in-cell counterparts (transformed); the mutant ones dissociated more slowly than their rapidly-dissociating in-cell counterparts and, to a variable extent, nonlinearly-an early faster phase, a later slower (transformed). Thus, as judged by two conventional criteria of steroid-R complex transformation, the mutant A-R complexes can transform, possibly in two steps, under certain cell-free conditions. This behavior differentiates a class of structural AR mutations whose molecular definition awaits application of recombinant DNA techniques to the X-linked AR locus.
Decreased plasmalogen ratios in cultured skin fibroblasts from myotonic dystrophy.	It has become known that hypolipidemic agents, which can induce experimental myotonia in humans and animals, may alter the lipid metabolisms of intracellular organelles, peroxisomes. However, there has been no reported study on peroxisomal lipid metabolisms in myotonic dystrophy showing myotonia as well as experimental myotonia. We investigated one of the peroxisomal lipid metabolisms, i.e., plasmalogen metabolism in cultured skin fibroblasts from myotonic dystrophy, and found plasmalogen ratios to be significantly reduced.
D-alanine in the frog skin peptide dermorphin is derived from L-alanine in the precursor.	A D-alanine-containing peptide termed dermorphin, with potent opiate-like activity, has been isolated from skin of the frog Phyllomedusa sauvagei. Complementary DNA (cDNA) libraries were constructed from frog skin messenger RNA and screened with a mixture of oligonucleotides that contained the codons complementary to five amino acids of dermorphin. Clones were detected with inserts coding for different dermorphin precursors. The predicted amino acid sequences of these precursors contained homologous repeats of 35 amino acids that included one copy of the heptapeptide dermorphin. In these cloned cDNAs, the alanine codon GCG occurred at the position where D-alanine is present in the end product. This suggests the existence of a novel post-translational reaction for the conversion of an L-amino acid to its D-isomer.
Very long chain fatty acid beta-oxidation by subcellular fractions of normal and Zellweger syndrome skin fibroblasts.	Very long chain fatty acid (VLCFA) beta-oxidation was compared in homogenates and subcellular fractions of cultured skin fibroblasts from normal individuals and from Zellweger patients who show greatly reduced numbers of peroxisomes in their tissues. beta-Oxidation of lignoceric (C24:0) acid was greatly reduced compared to controls in the homogenates and the subcellular fractions of Zellweger fibroblasts. The specific activity of C24:0 acid beta-oxidation was highest in the crude peroxisomal pellets of control fibroblasts. Fractionation of the crude mitochondrial and the crude peroxisomal pellets on Percoll density gradients revealed that the C24:0 acid oxidation was carried out entirely by peroxisomes, and the peroxisomal beta-oxidation activity was missing in Zellweger fibroblasts. In contrast to the beta-oxidation of C24:0 acid, the beta-oxidation of C24:0 CoA was observed in both mitochondria and peroxisomes. We postulate that a very long chain fatty acyl CoA (VLCFA CoA) synthetase, which is different from long chain fatty acyl CoA synthetase, is required for the effective conversion of C24:0 acid to C24:0 CoA. The VLCFA CoA synthetase appears to be absent from the mitochondrial membrane but present in the peroxisomal membrane.
Absorption, distribution and metabolism of [14C]-levomenol in the skin]	The purpose of the present investigations was to study the cutaneous absorption of sesquiterpenic alcohol, the major active principle of chamomile. For these investigations 14C-labelled levomenol ((-)-6-methyl-2-(4-methyl-3-cyclohexen-1-yl)-5-hepten-2-ol; (-)-alpha-bisabolol) was prepared by biochemical incorporation of [14C]-acetate into the molecule. 5 h after topical application of the radiolabelled substance onto nude mice half of the radioactivity was found in the skin. The other part was measured in tissue and organes. 90% of this radioactivity was analysed as intact levomenol. To demonstrate the distribution of the substance in the skin a part of this tissue was cutted into horizontal slices by a cryotome. From the slices autoradiograms were produced. The densitometric measuration showed that there was a fast penetration of levomenol into the skin. 5 h after the topical application the substance was displaced from outermost to innermost areas. From these results a fast cutaneous absorption and a long therapeutical effect of the antiphlogistic and spasmolytic levomenol in the skin can be expected.
Both near ultraviolet radiation and the oxidizing agent hydrogen peroxide induce a 32-kDa stress protein in normal human skin fibroblasts.	We have analyzed the pattern of protein synthesis in solar near ultraviolet (334 nm, 365 nm) and near visible (405 nm) irradiated normal human skin fibroblasts. Two hours after irradiation we find that one major stress protein of approximately 32 kDa is induced in irradiated cells. This protein is not induced by ultraviolet radiation at wavelengths shorter than 334 nm and is not inducible by heat shock treatment of these cells. Although sodium arsenite, diamide, and menadione all induced a 32-kDa protein, they also induced the major heat shock proteins. In contrast, the oxidizing agent, hydrogen peroxide, induced the low molecular weight stress protein without causing induction of the major heat shock proteins. A comparison of the 32-kDa proteins induced by sodium arsenite, H2O2, and solar near ultraviolet radiation using chemical peptide mapping shows that they are closely related. These results imply that the pathways for induction of the heat shock response and the 32-kDa protein are not identical and suggest that, at least in the case of radiation and treatment with H2O2, the 32-kDa protein might be induced in response to cellular oxidative stress. This conclusion is supported by the observation that depletion of endogenous cellular glutathione prior to solar near ultraviolet irradiation lowers the fluence threshold for induction of the 32-kDa stress protein.
Dermal penetration of carbofuran in young and adult Fischer 344 rats.	Dermal penetration of carbofuran was determined in young (33 d) and adult (82 d) female Fischer 344 rats employing in vivo and in vitro methods. In vivo dermal penetration at 120 h was 43% for young and 18% for adult rats. The half-time for carbofuran skin penetration (in vivo) was 128 h for the young and 400 h for the adults. The young to adult ratio of dermal penetration was greater than 1 at all time points (average 2.9) and had a maximum of 4.2 at 24 h. Cumulative urinary excretion approached about 95% of the absorbed dose in both the young and adult animals at 120 h. Whole-body retention was slightly higher in adults. Kidney showed the highest tissue-to-blood concentration ratio (4.6 in adult, 2.3 in young). The ratio for the carcass was 2.8 in the adult and 2.4 in the young. The urine/blood concentration ratio was high, 435 in the adult and 573 in the young. The feces/blood ratio was 44 in the adult and 65 in the young. Skin absorption by the in vitro continuous-flow system was 41% for the young and 11% for the adult at 72 h, compared to 36% and 13% by the in vivo method. The static in vitro method gave consistently lower skin penetration values of 12% for the young and 8.8% for the adult. Differences in the kinetics of retention and excretion were observed between the young and adult animals.
Hyperornithinemia, hyperammonemia, and homocitrullinuria: case report and biochemical study.	Two siblings with hyperornithinemia, hyperammonemia, and homocitrullinuria are reported. The clinical picture included protein intolerance, mental retardation, seizures, and stuporous episodes. One patient had cerebellar ataxia, myoclonus, convulsive seizure, and muscular weakness in both legs. Isolated liver mitochondria in the patient revealed that ornithine transport and citrulline synthesis were decreased, but urea cycle enzymes and ornithine aminotransferase were normal. Ornithine metabolism was decreased in cultured skin fibroblasts.
Ichthyosis induced by cholesterol-lowering drugs. Implications for epidermal cholesterol homeostasis.	Ichthyosis and other disorders of cornification may occur as side effects of treatment with several hypocholesterolemic agents. Recent progress in understanding of the functional role of lipids in stratum corneum provides a new pathophysiologic basis for these earlier clinical observations. In stratum corneum, lipids are segregated within intercellular membranes, where they appear to regulate permeability barrier function and desquamation. Cholesterol is an important constituent of these membranes and may be essential to both of these functions. Perturbation of barrier function induces cholesterologenesis locally within the epidermis. Polar sterol metabolites, such as cholesterol sulfate, may also regulate epidermal sterologenesis under normal or pathologic circumstances. Cholesterol homeostasis may also modulate desquamation. For example, hairless mice fed azacosterol hydrochloride (20,25-diazacholesterol) develop a generalized scaling disorder without loss of barrier function. In these mice, total stratum corneum sterol content is markedly decreased, and topical or systemic repletion with cholesterol can correct the scaling abnormalities.
Type I and III collagen content and fibre distribution in normal human skin during ageing.	The content of type I and III collagen in normal human skin from subjects of different ages was studied by means of a new high performance liquid chromatography method and by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and scanning electron microscopy. The ratio of types I and III collagen in covered skin remained constant throughout childhood and young adult life and the proportion of type III was shown to be the same as previously reported. However, in the elderly, the proportion of type III collagen in the dermis increased to a variable degree. Scanning electron microscopic examination showed a decrease in the number of collagen fibre bundles with age. Average bundle width varied significantly with age. These results may reflect an impaired synthesis of type I collagen in aged skin.
Involucrin expression in keratinization disorders of the skin--a preliminary study.	We have studied the expression of involucrin in a variety of keratinization disorders, mostly of genetic origin using an avidin-biotin-peroxidase technique. In normal human epidermis 25% of the living epidermis was labelled. The diseases studied fell into two groups. Diseases with greatly increased involucrin staining including collodion baby (38%), Darier's disease (49%), Flegel's disease (56%), erythrokeratoderma variabilis (60%), epidermal naevus with epidermolytic hyperkeratosis (45%) and congenital bullous (58%) and non-bullous (44%) ichythyosiform erythroderma; and diseases with normal or slightly increased staining, including ichthyosis vulgaris (27%), X-linked ichthyosis (25%), confluent and reticulate papillomatosis (27%) and simple epidermal naevus (28%). These results demonstrate that involucrin expression is altered in some keratinization disorders and suggest that in such conditions cellular functions other than keratin metabolism are also affected.
Metabolic fate and effect on cholesterol removal of liposomes prepared from 1,3-di-O-octadecenylglycero-2-phosphocholine studied in vivo and in vitro.	Available methodology was adapted to synthesize a labeled diether analog of 2-phosphatidylcholine (1,3-di-O-9'-cis-[9',10' (n)-3H]octadecenylglycero-2-phosphocholine [( 3H]DOE-2-PC). Unilamellar liposomes prepared by sonication from this phospholipid were injected into rats and, 4 h later, 65-78% of injected label was recovered in the liver. Thereafter, liver radioactivity disappeared with a half-life of 2-3 days. The radioactivity lost from the liver was recovered in the feces and in bile. Analysis of liver radioactivity showed that at all time intervals examined (4 h to 3 days after injection), 90% of the label remained as phospholipid. These findings provide evidence that this structural isomer is not readily metabolized, but is fairly rapidly eliminated from the liver. Of the 10% recovered as neutral lipid, 70% comigrated with diacylglycerol and 30% with triacylglycerol. Similar results were obtained when human hepatoma G2 cells in culture were incubated with [3H]DOE-2-PC liposomes. Following incubation of liposomes with liver homogenates, up to 10% conversion of [3H]DOE-2PC to neutral lipid occurred at pH 4.6, but not at pH 7.4. These data show that conversion of [3H]DOE-2-PC to dialkenylglycerol is catalyzed by a lysosomal enzyme. In separate experiments with cultured cells, sonicated dispersions of DOE-2-PC were mixed with high-density apolipoprotein and were shown to enhance markedly cellular cholesterol efflux. This novel diether phospholipid fulfills some of the criteria required of liposomes for their ability to remove cholesterol from the periphery as well as for drug delivery to the liver, i.e., stability in the circulation, marked hepatic uptake, slow metabolism, and elimination from the body.
Identification of tumorigenic metabolites of benzo[j]fluoranthene formed in vivo in mouse skin.	The metabolism of benzo[j]fluoranthene (BjF) in vivo in mouse skin was investigated. trans-4,5-Dihydro-4,5-dihydroxybenzo[j]fluoranthene (BjF-4,5-diol) and trans-9,10-dihydro-9,10-dihydroxybenzo[j]fluoranthene (BjF-9,10-diol) have been identified as major metabolites. In addition, 4- and 10-hydroxybenzo[j]fluoranthene and benzo[j]fluoranthen-4,5-dione have been tentatively identified among the metabolites formed in vivo in mouse skin. The enantiomeric purity of the metabolic dihydrodiols of BjF as formed in vivo in mouse skin was determined. The major enantiomer of BjF-4,5-diol was present in 57-62% enantiomeric excess while that of BjF-9,10-diol was present in 66-71% enantiomeric excess. In each case the later-eluting enantiomer on chiral stationary-phase high performance liquid chromatography predominated. The tumor-initiating activity of trans-2,3-dihydro-2,3-dihydroxybenzo[j]fluoranthene (BjF-2,3-diol), BjF-4,5-diol, BjF-9,10-diol, and BjF was evaluated on the skin of female CD-1 mice. As a total initiation dose of 3 mumol/mouse BjF-4,5-diol resulted in a 100% incidence of tumor-bearing mice with 5.0 tumors/mouse. In comparison, BjF-9,10-diol elicited a 60% incidence of tumor-bearing mice with 1.7 tumors/mouse, while BjF-2,3-diol was inactive. At the same dose, BjF gave rise to a 90% incidence of tumor-bearing mice with 7.8 tumors/mouse. At a 1-mumol dose, BjF-4,5-diol induced a 78% incidence of tumor-bearing mice with 4.3 tumors/mouse while BjF gave rise to a 70% tumor incidence with 3.4 tumors/mouse while BjF gave rise to a 70% tumor incidence with 3.4 tumors/mouse. These studies indicate that while BjF-9,10-diol could contribute to the overall tumorigenic activity of BjF in mouse skin, BjF-4,5-diol is a more potent tumor initiator in the target tissue.
Glucose flux through the hexose monophosphate shunt and NADP(H) levels during in vitro ageing of human skin fibroblasts.	In cultured human skin fibroblasts the glucose flux through the hexose monophosphate shunt (HMS) amounts to 4% of the glucose flux through the glycolytic pathway. Upon in vitro ageing the rate of glucose utilization through the HMS is decreased more than 50%. This decrease in HMS was not caused by a limiting enzymatic capacity since glucose utilization through the HMS could be raised at least 30-fold in both 'young' and 'aged' fibroblasts upon stimulation with phenazine methosulphate. This effect of in vitro ageing upon glucose metabolism was also not due to differences in proliferation rate between 'young' and 'aged' human fibroblasts, since there was no difference in glucose utilization between proliferating and growth-inhibited (confluently cultured) fibroblasts. The NADPH/NADP ratio was found to be decreased by 12% in 'aged' cells.
Brain ascorbate depletion as a response to stress.	Ascorbate-depleted rainbow trout were fed a single dose of L-1-14C-ascorbic acid, then held in metabolism chambers for four consecutive five-day periods. Tissue samples were analyzed for 14C, ascorbate, and ascorbate-2-sulfate. Brain ascorbate showed a long turnover time following a very slow uptake. The loss of brain ascorbate after five days in metabolism chambers was highly significant (p less than 0.001) when compared with similar dosed fish not chambered. A brain ascorbate pool which does not exchange with the body pool is proposed. Possible mechanisms are discussed and a kinetic model is suggested.
Fura-2 measurement of cytosolic free Ca2+ in monolayers and suspensions of various types of animal cells.	The fluorescent indicator fura-2 has been applied to a variety of cell types in order to set up appropriate conditions for measurements of the cytosolic concentration of free ionized Ca2+ [( Ca2+]i) in both cell suspensions and single cells analyzed in a conventional fluorimeter or in a fluorescence microscope equipped for quantitative analyses (with or without computerized image analyses), respectively. When the usual procedure for fluorescence dye loading (i.e., incubation at 37 degrees C with fura-2 acetoxy-methyl ester) was used, cells often exhibited a nonhomogeneous distribution of the dye, with marked concentration in multiple small spots located preferentially in the perinuclear area. These spots (studied in detail in human skin fibroblasts), were much more frequent in attached than in suspended cells, and were due to the accumulation (most probably by endocytosis) of the dye within acidic organelles after hydrolysis by lysosomal enzyme(s). When loading with fura-2 was performed at low (15 degrees C) temperature, no spots appeared, and cells remained diffusely labeled even after subsequent incubation at 32-37 degrees C for up to 2 h. Homogeneous distribution of the dye is a prerequisite for appropriate [Ca2+]i measurement. In fact, comparison of the results obtained in human skin fibroblasts labeled at either 37 or 15 degrees C demonstrated in spotty cells a marked apparent blunting of Ca2+ transients evoked by application of bradykinin. Additional problems were encountered when using fura-2. Leakage of the dye from loaded cells to the extracellular medium markedly affected the measurements in cell suspensions. This phenomenon was found to depend on the cell type, and to markedly decrease when temperature was lowered, suggesting the involvement of a facilitated transport. Calibration of fluorescence signals in terms of absolute [Ca2+]i was complicated by the increased fluorescence of fura-2 in the intracellular environment. To solve this problem we propose an in situ calibration procedure based on measurements carried out on cells in which [Ca2+]i was massively lowered (by loading the probe in a Ca2+-free medium) or increased (by treatment with the Ca2+ ionophore ionomycin, applied in a medium containing 3 mM Ca2+). These results provide explanations and, at least partial, solutions to the major problems encountered when using fura-2, and should thus be of help in clarifying the proper usage of the dye in [Ca2+]i measurements.
Peroxisomal fatty acid beta-oxidation in relation to the accumulation of very long chain fatty acids in cultured skin fibroblasts from patients with Zellweger syndrome and other peroxisomal disorders.	The peroxisomal oxidation of the long chain fatty acid palmitate (C16:0) and the very long chain fatty acids lignocerate (C24:0) and cerotate (C26:0) was studied in freshly prepared homogenates of cultured skin fibroblasts from control individuals and patients with peroxisomal disorders. The peroxisomal oxidation of the fatty acids is almost completely dependent on the addition of ATP, coenzyme A (CoA), Mg2+ and NAD+. However, the dependency of the oxidation of palmitate on the concentration of the cofactors differs markedly from that of the oxidation of lignocerate and cerotate. The peroxisomal oxidation of all three fatty acid substrates is markedly deficient in fibroblasts from patients with the Zellweger syndrome, the neonatal form of adrenoleukodystrophy and the infantile form of Refsum disease, in accordance with the deficiency of peroxisomes in these patients. In fibroblasts from patients with X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy the peroxisomal oxidation of lignocerate and cerotate is impaired, but not that of palmitate. Competition experiments indicate that in fibroblasts, as in rat liver, distinct enzyme systems are responsible for the oxidation of palmitate on the one hand and lignocerate and cerotate on the other hand. Fractionation studies indicate that in rat liver activation of cerotate and lignocerate to cerotoyl-CoA and lignoceroyl-CoA, respectively, occurs in two subcellular fractions, the endoplasmic reticulum and the peroxisomes but not in the mitochondria. In homogenates of fibroblasts from patients lacking peroxisomes there is a small (25%) but significant deficiency of the ability to activate very long chain fatty acids. This deficient activity of very long chain fatty acyl-CoA synthetase is also observed in fibroblast homogenates from patients with X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy. We conclude that X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy is caused by a deficiency of peroxisomal very long chain fatty acyl-CoA synthetase.
Vascular permeability induced by protein product of malignant brain tumors: inhibition by dexamethasone.	Serum-free conditioned medium derived from confluent monolayer cultures of malignant human astroglial tumors contains a substance that rapidly increases capillary vascular permeability after intradermal injection into guinea pigs. Accumulation of vascular permeability factor (VPF) activity occurs with increasing duration of tumor incubation in vitro. Expression of this activity is inhibited by incubation of cell cultures with cycloheximide or dexamethasone. This VPF is an acid-stable heat-labile macromolecule that is inactivated by trypsin and pepsin and binds immobilized heparin. Activity is retained by ultrafiltration with 30,000-dalton cut-off microconcentrators. Pretreatment of test animals with systemic dexamethasone prior to intradermal injection of VPF diminishes microvascular permeability. Furthermore, VPF activity is not inhibited by antihistamines. Secretion of VPF may cause the vasogenic brain edema that is frequently associated with malignant primary and metastatic intracerebral tumors. Inhibition by dexamethasone of both VPF expression in tissue culture, and VPF activity at the microvascular level in test animals, is in keeping with the known efficacy of this agent in treating the vasogenic edema associated with brain tumors.
Comparison of the catabolism of branched-chain L-amino acids in cultured human skin fibroblasts.	Using 1-14C-labeled substrates, the metabolism of naturally occurring branched-chain L-amino acids was studied in incubations with cultured human skin fibroblasts derived from normal subjects and from a patient with maple syrup urine disease (variant form). Practically saturating conditions were reached at 1 mmol/liter of substrate and metabolic rates remained essentially constant up to 120 min. In control fibroblasts, the transamination of 14C-labeled leucine, valine, isoleucine, and allo-isoleucine (1 mmol/liter) was about 26, 13, 12, and 5 nmol/90 min/mg of cell protein, respectively. The portion of transamination products undergoing oxidative decarboxylation within the cells was about 17, 43, 34, and 23%, respectively. With the maple syrup urine disease cell line, comparable transamination rates were found. As compared to the findings with normal cells, however, 14CO2 production from the above mentioned substrates was reduced and amounted to 14, 11, 25, and 45%, respectively. Thus it appeared that residual branched-chain 2-oxo acid dehydrogenase activity was differently reduced towards the four 2-oxo acid substrates.
Oxygen tension in tissues of the extremities during lumbar sympathectomy]	Measurements of oxygen tension in the lower extremity skin in patients with obliterating atherosclerosis has revealed the basal decrease of tissue oxygenation. Lumbar sympathectomy caused a temporary aggravation of regional hypoxia resulting from reflex responses to mechanical irritation of autonomic ganglions during operation. A preliminary injection of pentamine, blockade of lumbar ganglia with novocaine, sparing technique of ganglionectomy considerably reduced or even prevented hypoxic reaction of tissues. The efficiency of the operation is dependent on the degree of basal arterial ischemia, stage of the disease and technique of performing sympathectomy.
Metabolism of 3H-proline in riboflavin deficiency.	Riboflavin deficiency and food restriction were associated with greater solubility and lesser total and insoluble collagen concentration in rat skin. Studies using 3H-proline suggest that the lower collagen concentration under these conditions could be due to a decrease in synthesis as well as slow maturation of collagen. The mechanisms underlying defective cross-link formation appear to be different in food-restricted and riboflavin-deficient rats. Half-life of soluble collagen was not affected in riboflavin deficiency, but it was slightly shorter in food-restricted weight-matched animals.
Effect of ellagic acid and 3-O-decylellagic acid on the formation of benzo[a]pyrene-derived DNA adducts in vivo and on the tumorigenicity of 3-methylcholanthrene in mice.	The effect of ellagic acid and its more lipophilic derivative, 3-O-decylellagic acid, on the amount of DNA-bound adducts in the epidermis or lung of CD-1 mice treated with [3H]benzo-[a]pyrene ([3H]B[a]P) was evaluated using several different treatment protocols. The i.v. administration of 50 mumol/kg of ellagic acid or 3-O-decylellagic acid either together with or 5 min before a 0.2 mumol/kg i.v. dose of [3H]B[a]P did not inhibit the formation of pulmonary DNA-bound adducts. Feeding mice a diet that contained 1% ellagic acid for 10 days or the i.p. administration of 120 mumol/kg of ellagic acid 30 min before the i.v. administration of 0.2 mumol/kg of [3H]B[a]P did not inhibit the formation of DNA-bound adducts in the lung. The application of 2,500 nmol of ellagic acid or 3-O-decylellagic acid to mouse skin 5 min before the application of 2, 10 or 50 nmol of [3H]B[a]P had little or no effect on the covalent binding of [3H]B[a]P metabolites to epidermal DNA. Feeding mice a diet containing 1% ellagic acid for 10 days did not inhibit the formation of epidermal DNA-bound adducts after a topical dose of 2 nmol of [3H]B[a]P. Similarly, the topical application of 2,500 nmol of ellagic acid at 2 h, 1 h and 5 min before and at 10 min after the application of 2 nmol of [3H]B[a]P did not inhibit the formation of DNA-bound adducts, but the same dosing regimen of 3-O-decylellagic acid (total dose of 10,000 nmol) resulted in a modest inhibition in the formation of DNA-bound adducts. The topical application of 1,500 nmol of ellagic acid 1 h before the application of 1,500 nmol of 3-methylcholanthrene (3-MC) to CD-1 or BALB/c mice twice weekly did not inhibit the development of skin tumors. Our results indicate that ellagic acid and 3-O-decylellagic acid are not effective in inhibiting [3H]B[a]P DNA adduct formation in mouse skin and lung and that ellagic acid does not inhibit 3-MC-induced skin tumorigenesis in BALB/c or CD-1 mice.
Tumor-initiating activity of major in vivo metabolites of indeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene on mouse skin.	Indeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene is a ubiquitous environmental pollutant which is active as a tumor initiator and complete carcinogen on mouse skin and is carcinogenic in rat lung. The major metabolites of indeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene as formed in vivo in mouse skin have been identified. 8-Hydroxyindeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene is the most abundant metabolite identified. 9-Hydroxyindeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene and trans-1,2-dihydro-1,2-dihydroxyindeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene are also major in vivo metabolites in mouse skin. Several minor metabolites were also identified. Among these are trans-1,2-dihydro-1,2,8-trihydroxyindeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene, trans-1,2-dihydro-1,2,9-trihydroxyindeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene, indeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene-1,2-dione, and 10-hydroxyindeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene. The tumor-initiating activity of several of the major in vivo metabolites of indeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene has been investigated on mouse skin. Trans-1,2-dihydro-1,2-dihydroxyindeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene and 1,2-dihydro-1,2-epoxyindeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene both produced an 80% incidence of tumor-bearing mice at a total initiating dose of 1.0 mg. The activity of this K-region dihydrodiol and K-region oxide was, however, less than that of the parent hydrocarbon. These data suggest that 1,2-dihydro-1,2-epoxyindeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene, which is an ultimate mutagenic metabolite of indeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene, is not the ultimate tumorigenic metabolite on mouse skin. 8-Hydroxyindeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene, which is mutagenic when assayed in the presence of a microsomal activation system, exhibited only weak tumor-initiating activity. These results indicate that the principal metabolic activation pathways associated with the mutagenic activity of indeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene are not related to its tumor-initiating activity on mouse skin.
DNA repair in human cells: in Cockayne syndrome cells rejoining of DNA strands is impaired.	Fibroblasts from patients with Cockayne Syndrome (CS) are hypersensitive to UV light. DNA repair was analyzed in these cells by sedimentation behaviour of DNA nucleoids in sucrose gradients and compared to normal control cells. The initiation of repair, the incision of the DNA strand next to the UV lesion appeared to be normal. The rejoining of DNA stretches, however, is retarded in CS cells. DNA repair synthesis of UV damages was measured by autoradiography of [14C]thymidine incorporation into resting cells. Up to 4 h the DNA repair synthesis was comparable with normal cells. From 4 to 7 h the incorporation of radioactive precursors declined in CS cells. Besides a defective DNA polymerase this could be due to accelerated excorporation of radioactive nucleotides as a consequence of delayed ligation. In ligation the enzyme itself could be affected as well as its activation by ADP-ribosylation. Nicotine adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) is needed for the ADP ribosylation process. The cellular NAD+ content, however, was found to be the same in normal and in CS fibroblasts. Increase of the extracellular NAD+ supply accelerated the rejoining of UV damaged DNA in CS cells.
Plasmalogen deficiency in cultured skin fibroblasts from neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy.	The plasmalogen ratio (defined as area ratio of lysophosphatidylethanolamine to the diacyl form of phosphatidylethanolamine) was investigated in cultured skin fibroblasts from neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy (N = 4) and X-linked recessive (N = 3) in addition to Zellweger syndrome (N = 3) because plasmalogen was reported to be reduced in Zellweger syndrome. The ratio was markedly decreased in all cases of Zellweger syndrome studied and in three of the four cases of neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy, whereas it was normal in the X-linked cases. This is the first documentation of a plasmalogen deficiency in neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy.
Safety and possible penetration of pyridoxal phosphate across the skin barrier when used epicutaneously]	It was demonstrated in experiments on various animal species that pyridoxal phosphate had low toxicity and easily penetrated across the skin barrier without producing general toxic, irritant and allergenic effects.
Sodium 22+ washout from cultured rat cells.	The washout of Na+ isotopes from tissues and cells is quite complex and not well defined. To further gain insight into this process, we have studied 22Na+ washout from cultured Wistar rat skin fibroblasts and vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs). In these preparations, 22Na+ washout is described by a general three-exponential function. The exponential factor of the fastest component (k1) and the initial exchange rate constant (kie) of cultured fibroblasts decrease in magnitude in response to incubation in K+-deficient medium or in the presence of ouabain and increase in magnitude when the cells are incubated in a Ca++-deficient medium. As the magnitude of the kie declines (in the presence of ouabain) to the level of the exponential factor of the middle component (k2), 22Na+ washout is adequately described by a two-exponential function. When the kie is further diminished (in the presence of both ouabain and phloretin) to the range of the exponential factor of the slowest component (k3), the washout of 22Na+ is apparently monoexponential. Calculations of the cellular Na+ concentrations, based on the 22Na+ activity in the cells at the initiation of the washout experiments, and the medium specific activity agree with atomic absorption spectrometry measurements of the cellular concentration of this ion. Thus, all three components of 22Na+ washout from cultured rat cells are of cellular origin. Using the exponential parameters, compartmental analyses of two models (in parallel and in series) with three cellular Na+ pools were performed. The results indicate that, independent of the model chosen, the relative size of the largest Na+ pool is 92-93% in fibroblasts and approximately 96% in VSMCs. This pool is most likely to represent the cytosol.
Immediate dermal changes in pig skin after exposure to moderate amounts of heat and electrical energy.	Pig skin was exposed to approximately 80 joules of heat and electrical energy [50 Hz alternating current (a.c.) and direct current (d.c.)], respectively, under controlled conditions in order to find methods to document electrical torture. Biopsies were obtained immediately after exposure, and the morphology of the electrical lesions was compared with that of heat lesions and unexposed skin by using normal and polarized light microscopy. In areas exposed to 50 Hz a.c. and in cathode areas after d.c., where calcified collagen fibers have been found 2 days after injury, the collagen fibers showed a regular, densely spaced, cross-striation. This type of cross-striation was not found in heat or anode lesions. It was possible to blindly group all biopsies correctly with regard to influence of heat, 50 a.c. and d.c.
Toxic dermatitis and pseudo-contact allergy]	A contact dermatitis is more often due to skin irritation than to allergic reactions. About 80% of occupational dermatoses are explicable as toxic reactions of the skin, 20% as allergic reactions. Frequency and severity of the diseases depends on the nature and concentration of a substance as well as from the duration of its action on the skin. Defense mechanisms against chemicals are influenced by sebum content, humidity and the integrity of the horny layer. From a practical standpoint it is important to differentiate toxic from allergic reactions in a patch-test. It seems that allergic reactions are diagnosed too often. The determination of the critical non-toxic concentration requires the evaluation of a sufficient number of patients. The differentiation of irritation and allergy is tendered more difficult by individual factors. The therapy of toxic and allergic contact dermatitis is discussed.
Chemical analysis of the integument and digestive gland of Crangon crangon (Linn) (Crustacea, Decapoda) by x ray spectography. Quantitative variations in the elements of calcium, phosphorus, sulfur, and magnesium during the intermolt cycle]	Electron probe microanalysis is a very suitable method for qualitative and quantitative analysis of calcium, phosphorus, sulfur and magnesium occurring within integument and digestive gland; variations related to intermolt cycle can be compared.
Liver disease and vasculitis in a patient taking cromolyn.	Hypersensitivity reactions to cromolyn sodium occur rarely. On several occasions they have been associated with peripheral eosinophilia and granulomatous inflammation. Liver disease has not been reported previously as a complication of inhaled cromolyn. We describe here a woman in whom marked peripheral eosinophilia, liver disease, and systemic vasculitis developed while taking cromolyn and resolved or improved on discontinuation of the drug and treatment with corticosteroids. The liver disease was similar to primary biliary cirrhosis except that marked eosinophilic infiltration and granulomas were present initially. Studies of the patient's serum for binding of carbon 14-labeled cromolyn, the skin for deposits of the drug, and the circulating lymphocytes for stimulation by cromolyn failed to demonstrate any abnormalities. However, the elevated IgG and IgM levels, the positive rheumatoid factor and antimitochondrial antibody, and the reduced serum complement, which returned to normal on discontinuation of the drug therapy, suggests that immunologic mechanisms may have played a role in the pathogenesis of this patient's illness.
Nonequilibrium thermodynamic analysis of the coupling between active sodium transport and oxygen consumption.	Sodium transport and oxygen consumption have been simultaneously studied in the short-circuited toad skin. A constant stoichiometric ratio was observed in each skin under control condition (NaCl-Ringer's solution bathing both sides of the skin) and after block of sodium transport by ouabain. During alterations of sodium transport by removal and addition of K to the internal solution the stoichiometric ratio is constant although having a value higher than that observed in other untreated skins. The coupling between active sodium transport and oxygen consumption was studied after a theoretical nonequilibrium thermodynamic model. Studies were made of the influence of Na chemical potential difference across the skin on the rates of Na transport and oxygen consumption. A linear relationship was observed between the rates of Na transport and oxygen consumption and the Na chemical potential difference. Assuming the Onsager relationship to be valid, the three phenomenological coefficients which describe the system were evaluated. Transient increases in the rate of sodium transport and oxygen consumption were observed after a transitory block of sodium transport by removal of Na from the external solution. Cyanide blocks completely the rate of oxygen consumption in less than 2 min and the short-circuit current measured after that time decays exponentially with time, suggesting a depletion of ATP from a single compartment.
Liquid-gel partition chromatography of vitamin A compounds; formation of retinoic acid from retinyl acetate in vivo.	A clear separation of retinol, retinal, and retinoic acid has been achieved by liquid-gel partition chromatography on Sephadex LH-20 with solvent mixtures of chloroform, Skellysolve B, and methanol. A mixture of retinyl esters, retinol, retinal, and retinoic acid has been resolved on hydroxyalkoxypropyl Sephadex using Skellysolve B and acetone. There is no decomposition of any of the vitamin A compounds during chromatography, and recovery is complete. The combination of mildness and potential for resolution makes liquid-gel partition chromatography a superior tool for the separation of vitamin A compounds. This method has been applied to the study of vitamin A metabolism at physiological levels in the vitamin A-deficient rat. Retinyl palmitate, an ester of retinoic acid, retinal, retinol, retinoic acid, and a polar metabolite have been demonstrated in various tissues of the rat 12 hr after a dose of 2 micro g of [11-(14)C]retinyl acetate.
Evaluation of the isolated perfused rat hindquarter for the study of muscle metabolism.	1. The metabolic integrity of a new isolated rat hindquarter preparation was studied. The hindquarter was perfused with a semi-synthetic medium containing aged human erythrocytes. More than 95% of the oxidative metabolism of the preparation was due to muscle, the remainder being due to bone, adipose tissue and, where present, skin. 2. Consumption of O(2), glucose utilization, glycerol release and lactate production were similar in the presence and in the absence of the skin, indicating that the latter contributed little to the overall metabolism of the preparation. 3. After 40min of perfusion, tissue concentrations of creatine phosphate, ATP and ADP were similar to those found in muscle taken directly from intact animals. The muscle also appeared normal under the electron microscope. 4. The hindquarter did not lose K(+) to the medium during a 30min perfusion. In the presence of insulin it had a net K(+) uptake. 5. Insulin caused a sixfold increase in glucose uptake, stimulated O(2) consumption by nearly 40% and depressed glycerol release to less than half the control value. 6. Bilateral sciatic-nerve stimulation caused severalfold increases in O(2) consumption and lactate production. In the absence of insulin nerve stimulation also enhanced glucose uptake; in the presence of insulin it did not further increase the already high rate of glucose uptake. 7. Rates of lactate production and O(2) consumption of the rat hindquarter in vivo and the isolated perfused hindquarter were very similar. 8. Ketone bodies were a major oxidative fuel in vivo of the hindquarter of a rat starved for 2 days. If the acetoacetate and 3-hydroxybutyrate removed by the tissue were completely oxidized, they would have accounted for 77% of the O(2) consumption. 9. Acetoacetate accounted for 84% of the ketone bodies removed by the hindquarter in vivo even though its arterial concentration was half that of 3-hydroxybutyrate. 10. Similar rates of acetoacetate and 3-hydroxybutyrate utilization were observed in the perfused hindquarter. 11. Acetoacetate utilization by the perfused hindquarter was not diminished by the addition of either oleate or insulin to the perfusate. 12. Oxidation of glucose to CO(2) accounted for less than 4% of the O(2) consumed by the perfused hindquarter in both the presence and the absence of insulin. 13. The results indicate that the isolated perfused hindquarter is a useful tool for studying muscle metabolism. They also suggest that ketone bodies, if present in sufficient concentration, are the preferred oxidative fuel of resting muscle.
A method for the calculation of the relative contributions of recruitment and enhancement to human eccrine sweating.	The rate of eccrine sweating has been studied by collecting samples in unventilated capsules from human subjects following subdermal or intradermal injections of acetyl-beta-methylcholine and under moderate total body heat exposure. The rate of sweating in a given area of skin could increase by recruitment of fresh glands, enhanced output of the already active glands, or some combination of both.A theoretical analysis shows how recruitment and enhancement can be calculated separately, assuming the existence of a maximal rate of sodium reabsorption by eccrine sweat glands, a sodium concentration of 145 muEq/ml in the precursor fluid, the absence of significant water reabsorption, and the absence of back-diffusion of sodium. The results indicate that, depending on the experimental conditions, an increased rate of sweating can be attributed mainly to recruitment, to enhancement, or to a combination of both.
Defect in DNA synthesis in skin of patients with xeroderma pigmentosum demonstrated in vivo.	Exposure of normal human skin in vivo to ultraviolet irradiation at wavelengths shorter than 320 nanometers stimtulated an unscheduled DNA synthesis in all of the cell layers of the epidermis and in the upper dermnial fibrocytes. The skin of patients with xeroderma pigmentosum did not show this response. correlation of these findings with previous tissue culture studies suggests that the defect in repair of the damaged DNA in xeroderma cells occurs in vivo as well as in vitro.
A comparative study of iodine uptake by thyroid and thymus glands of male and female Sprague-Dawley rats of different ages.	The iodine concentrating ability of thyroid glands, thymus gland and skin in Sprague-Dawley rats was assessed by determining the tissue/blood radioiodide concentration ratios. Tissue/blood ratios are significantly affected by the age of the rats, however, thymus/blood radioiodide ratios never exceeded unity. The comparative uptake of 131I by thymus and thyroid tissue expressed as thymus/thyroid (%) for neonate animals was 10-16 times greater than those obtained for older rats. Moreover, the fraction of injected dose of radioiodide in thymus tissue never exceeded that of the thyroid or skin and paralleled the concentration of radio-activity in the blood. These results indicate that although neonate thymus tissue contains a significantly greater amount of radioactivity than the thymus of older rats, an active iodide concentration mechanism is not involved.
Study of the effect of oestradiol on hexosamine-containing substances and a possible receptor in the skin of male mice.	Male mice were treated with 10 microng of oestradiol for 5 days in order to study the effect of the hormone on both the distribution and the rate of synthesis of glycosaminoglycans and glycoproteins in the skin. Oestradiol exerts a very specific effect on glycosaminoglycans by increasing hyaluronic acid concentration more than 11 times. Effects on other hexosamine-containing substances were much smaller and less consistent. Although the above increase of hyaluronic acid was due mainly to an augmentation of its synthesis, the results also indicate the possibility of a blockage in the breakdown process. Despite the fact that oestrogen produces such large changes, a specific cytosol receptor of the hormone was not discerned and it was concluded that male mouse skin is not an oestrogen receptor tissue in the classical sense.
Evaporative losses of water by birds.	1. Birds lose water in evaporation from the respiratory tract and, in many species, through the skin. Anatomical arrangements in the nasal passages to conservation of water and hear from the expired air in the absence of heat loads. However, most species still expend more water in evaporation than they produce in metabolism when either quiescent or vigorously active. Certain small birds, several of them associated with arid environments, represent exceptions to this and their more favorable situation appears in part to reflect as an ability to curtail cutaneous water loss. 2. Birds typically resort to panting in dealing with substantial heat loads developing in hot environments or accumulated over bouts of activity. In a number of species this form of evaporative cooling is supplemented by gular fluttering. 3. The ubiquitousness of active heat defense appears to reflect more the importance for birds of dealing with heat loads existing following flight or sustained running than any universal affinity for hot climates. Panting can be sustained for hours, despite progressive dehydration and, in some instances, hypocapnia and respiratory alkalosis. The prominent involvement of thermoreceptors in the spinal cord in its initiation is of considerable interest.
Alterations in copper and collagen metabolism in the Menkes syndrome and a new subtype of the Ehlers-Danlos syndrome.	Cultured fibroblasts of 13 patients with the Menkes syndrome and two with a new subtype (type IX) of the Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (E-D IX patients) showed many very similar abnormalities in their copper and collagen metabolism. Both cell types had markedly increased copper concentrations and 64Cu incorporation, and this cation accumulated in metallothionein or a metallothionein-like protein, as previously established for Menkes cells. Histochemical staining indicated that copper was distributed diffusely throughout the cytoplasm in both cell types, this location being consistent with the accumulation in metallothionein. Both fibroblast types also had markedly low lysyl oxidase activity and distinctly increased extractability of newly synthesized collagen, whereas no abnormalities were present in cell viability, duplication rate, prolyl 4-hydroxylase activity, or collagen synthesis rate. A high negative correlation (P less than 0.001) was found in the pooled group of Menkes and E-D IX cells between cellular copper concentration (r = 0.804) or 64Cu incorporation (r = 0.863) and the logarithm of lysyl oxidase activity. There was also a high positive correlation (P less than 0.001) between cellular copper concentration and incorporation (r = 0.869). One of the two E-D IX patients was also shown to have similar changes in lysyl oxidase activity and collagen extractability in the skin biopsy specimen, suggesting that the abnormalities observed in cultured cells are similar to those present in vivo. The only distinct abnormality found in the cells of the parents of the E-D IX patients was an increased 64Cu incorporation in those of the mother, this finding being consistent with X-linked inheritance of the disorder.
Binding of wheat gliadin in vitro to reticulum in normal and dermatitis herpetiformis skin.	We have demonstrated by indirect immunofluorescence that wheat gliadin binds in vitro to reticulin-like fibrils present in cryostat sections of human skin, and rat liver, kidney and stomach. Gliadin was seen to bind to fibrils throughout the dermis of both normal and dermatitis herpetiformis skin, and this was particularly striking in the dermal papillae. Serum from 2 dermatitis herpetiformis patients who did not have antireticulin antibody gave reticulin staining when retested by immunofluorescence on cryostat sections of rat tissue pretreated with gliadin. Gliadin treated sections may prove useful in screening patients with gluten sensitive enteropathy for anti-gliadin antibody. Binding of gliadin to skin sites in dermatitis herpetiformis patients and subsequent deposition of antigliadin antibody at these sites may be involved in the development of skin lesions.
Biphasic entry of glucocorticoids into cultured human skin keratinocytes and fibroblasts.	The uptake of glucocorticoids by cultured human skin keratinocytes and fibroblasts was found to be a rapid, temperature-sensitive process. All glucocorticoids tested accumulated in the cells, and the ratio between the intracellular and extracellular concentrations (ci/co ratio) was higher than 1. For most of the glucocorticoids under study there was good correlation between the lipophilicity and the rate of uptake. Since the uptake of glucocorticoids seems to be unsaturable in the concentration range used and no competition was observed between these compounds for entry into the cells, it may be assumed that the uptake of glucocorticoids is essentially a simple diffusion process based on a distribution of glucocorticoids between a lipid-rich phase and water. The analysis of the uptake process revealed that the entry of glucocorticoids into cultured human skin fibroblasts and keratinocytes is a non-mediated passive diffusion process that involves two distinct steps: a rapid, non-specific, high-capacity association to the cell membrane followed by a slower internalization process associated with a stronger binding of glucocorticoids within the cell.
Determination of concentration-dependent water diffusivity in a keratinous membrane.	A permeation method was developed to determine water diffusivity, D (C), as a function of water concentration (C) in a keratinous membrane. The method involved the determination of a series of mean diffusivities (D) and mean concentrations (C) in the membrane. D was obtained from D = F H(Co - Ch), where F was the flux at steady state, H was the membrane thickness, and Co and Ch were the water concentrations in the membrane at the donor and receptor sides, respectively. The difference between Co and Ch was kept small in each experiment. Therefore, as a first approximation, C was equal to (Co + Ch)/2. After successive approximations, an empirical equation was found to provide the best fit to D versus C and to give the best convergence between the assumed and calculated C; the equation was taken as D(C). D(C) for water in fetal hog periderm was found to be: D(C) = 1.0 X 10(-18) + 9.70 X 10(-9) C0.69.
Investigation of intercellular matrix macromolecules involved in lichen sclerosus.	Dermal changes of the vulva in lichen sclerosus were compared with control vulvar samples using ultrastructural and immunofluorescence techniques. Collagen degeneration and regeneration were observed ultrastructurally in the superficial dermis of lichen sclerosus with increased amounts of ground substance. These processes appeared to alter the affinity of collagen fibres for the anticollagen antisera types I, III, IV. A decrease in elastin content was observed by electron microscopy. A loss of fibronectin was discovered at the dermo-epidermal junction, which looked normal ultrastructurally. The linear laminin pattern at the dermo-epidermal junction was also altered. These results suggested an enzymatic process in the pathogenesis of lichen sclerosus. Amidase activity could be determined in 6 normal and 6 pathological biopsies, though higher in the pathological samples (p less than 0.01).
Studies on fibronectin in the skin. VII. Production in cell cultures from normal human skin.	In the present study, cell cultures of fibroblasts from normal skin have been investigated regarding the production of fibronectin. The development of multimeric insoluble fibronectin is demonstrated as small dots at the cell surface, developing into a branched meshwork of fibrous structures in parallel arrays. Soluble dimeric fibronectin is also found in the culture medium.
Alkali neutralization and alkali resistance in persons with healthy skin and in eczema patients]	Alkali resistance (AR) and alkali neutralisation (AN) time, according to Tronnier and Bussius, were measured at three month intervals on 77 people with healthy skin and compared with test results from 205 patients with occupational dermatitis for whom expert opinion had been given once or several times. It was established that AN and AR react independently of one another. No significant difference was noted in either of the groups with reference to sex, age, occupation and skin type, nor in the ill patients with reference to the duration of the dermatitis, reduction in earning capacity, sensitivity or state of illness at the time opinion was given. Both AN and AR changed usually in the course of occupational dermatitis, however not parallel to one another, nor in relation to the respective skin condition. An and AR results from the dermatitis patients are significantly worse than those from persons with healthy skin tested as comparison. 35% of the healthy persons had pathological AR. In spite of considerable variations in AN in individuals, a satisfactory reproduction of the test results was obtained both for the AN and AR in repeated investigations.
Studies on the in vitro incorporation of radioactivity from 1-14C-labeled D-hexosamines in the mucopolysaccharide-peptide complexes of avian tissues.	The incorporation of D-[1-14C]-labeled glucosamine (GlcN) and D-[1-14C]-labeled galactosamine (GalN) into mucopolysaccharide-peptide complex(es) (MPS-P) and the rate of 14CO2 production by tissue slices of skin, comb, liver, kidney, shell gland, and magnum from laying hens were studied during a 12 hr period. The D-[1-14C] GlcN was metabolized at a faster rate than D-[1-14C] GalN. No 14CO2 was produced by skin and comb tissues incubated with D-[1-14C]GalN for 12 hr. The amount of 14C associated with the acetone extract of the tissues, acetone-extracted tissues, and MPS-P of the tissue increased with increasing incubation time, but generally the increase was highest in the MPS-P. A comparison among the tissues indicated that the radioactivity present in CO2 and MPS-P was highest in the shell gland and lowest in comb tissue slices. The rates of incorporation of 14C-hexosamine (HexN) into MPS-P by tissue slices appeared to be in general agreement to those of intact animals.
Ion-secreting epithelia: chloride cells in the head region of Fundulus heteroclitus.	Transporting cells of ion-secreting epithelia are characterized by similar morphological patterns that include rich supplies of mitochondria, exotic patterns of surface amplification, and basolateral, plasma-membrane location of Na-K-ATPase, even though the direction of sodium transport across these epithelia is toward the apical side. Several new models for NaCl secretion propose that sodium, extruded into the intercellular space by Na-K-ATPase, reaches the apical side via the zonulae occludentes. Very recent freeze-fracture electron microscopy of avian salt gland and teleost chloride cells reveals that transporting cells are joined by simple, shallow zonulae occludentes. These observations lend morphological support to the concept that paracellular sodium ion permeation plays a central role in secretion. The chloride ion may traverse the epithelium via a transcellular route, entering the cell at the basolateral membrane by a chloride carrier linked to the cotransport of sodium down its electrochemical gradient into the cell. Finally, the chloride ion may exit the cell across the apical membrane by electrical forces. This review summarizes biochemical, morphological, and electrophysiological aspects of these new secretory models and the important contribution of a half century of research on teleost osmoregulatory mechanisms, including the chloride cell, to our understanding of sodium and chloride transport across secretory epithelia.
Metabolic aspects of psoriasis: the basis for specific therapy.	Psoriasis, like diabetes, is a multifactorial genetic disease with complex interactions of deranged metabolism. Factors that affect epidermal differentiation and proliferation include cyclic nucleotide interactions, polyamine metabolism, cell surface--cytoskeleton interactions, and arachidonic acid--prostaglandin cascade. Evidence indicates that pharmacologic manipulation of the so-called critical metabolic systems not only may help us to understand the pathophysiology of psoriasis but also may yield improved treatments for the disease.
Receptor-dependent uptake of human chylomicron remnants by cultured skin fibroblasts.	Human chylomicrons were isolated from plasma from a subject with familial hypertriglyceridemia and converted to chylomicron remnants by incubation with postheparin plasma. The interaction of these apolipoprotein E-containing, cholesterol-rich human chylomicron remnants with cultured skin fibroblasts was studied. Chylomicron remnants were internalized by skin fibroblasts as a unit, mainly via the low density lipoprotein (LDL)-receptor pathway, resulting in increased cell cholesterol content. After entering the fibroblast, chylomicron remnants stimulated cholesterol esterification, suppressed 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase activity, and down-regulated LDL receptor activity similar to the action of LDL. As a function of increasing lipolysis, remnant particles were progressively more effectively taken up by skin fibroblasts, despite a decrease in the apolipoprotein E content per lipoprotein particle. Remnant particles produced after hydrolysis of 70 to 80% of chylomicron triglyceride increased cell cholesterol content to an amount nearly identical to that observed with LDL when the two lipoproteins were incubated at an equal cholesterol concentration. However, when incubated on the basis of equal particle number, chylomicron remnants were 2 to 3 times more effective than LDL in delivering cholesterol to the cells. These results suggest that chylomicron remnants play a role in the regulation of postabsorptive cholesterol homeostasis in nonhepatic cells, and possibly in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis.
High-affinity [3H]choline accumulation in cultured human skin fibroblasts.	[3H]Choline can be transported across cell membranes by high-affinity (KT less than 5 microM) and low-affinity (KT much greater than 5 microM) systems. High-affinity choline accumulation (HACA) has been demonstrated in synaptosomes made from cholinergic brain regions such as the hippocampus and caudate-putamen. In cell culture, HACA has been demonstrated in glia and avian telencephalon, dissociated spinal cord, and muscle fibroblasts. We examined [3H]choline accumulation in a single normal human fibroblast line cultured from skin biopsy. [3H]Choline accumulation was temperature-dependent and linear with incubation time up to 6 min at 0.125 microM-choline. The apparent KT for [3H]choline was 5 microM, which is similar to that observed in avian fibroblasts. Isoosmotic replacement of Na+ with either Li+ (144 mM) or sucrose (288 mM) severely reduced [3H]choline accumulation (by 70-90%). Pre-incubation with ouabain (100 microM), sodium orthovanadate (100 microM), or 2,4-dinitrophenol (100 microM), or replacement of Ca2+ by Mg2+ had little or no effect on subsequent [3H]choline accumulation. [3H]Choline accumulation was inhibited by hemicholinium-3 (HC-3); after pre-incubation in HC-3 at 37 degrees C for 10 min, the IC50 (at 0.125 microM-choline) was 5.6 microM. The HC-3 sensitivity, Na+ dependence, and low KT suggest that human skin fibroblasts have a high-affinity transport system for choline.
Degradation by cultured fibroblasts and macrophages of unmodified and 1,2-cyclohexanedione-modified low-density lipoprotein from normal and homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemic subjects.	Monolayer cultures of human skin fibroblasts and monocyte-derived macrophages were used to examine the effect of cyclohexane-1,2-dione modification on the proteolytic degradation of 125I-labelled low-density lipoprotein (LDL) from normal subjects (NLDL) and homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemic subjects (FHLDL). Normal fibroblasts, pre-incubated in lipoprotein-deficient serum, and macrophages, pre-incubated in whole serum, exhibited both saturable and non-saturable degradation of LDL. In fibroblasts, the saturable receptor-mediated degradation of FHLDL was similar to that of NLDL and was abolished if the lipoproteins were modified with cyclohexanedione. The rate of non-saturable degradation of FHLDL was at least 3-fold higher than that of NLDL and each was decreased by approx. 60% after modification. In macrophages, saturable degradation was decreased but not abolished by modification. The apparent affinity for unmodified LDL was lower than that of the fibroblast receptor and was greater for NLDL than for FHLDL. Non-saturable degradation of FHLDL by macrophages was only slightly higher than that of NLDL. Modification with cyclohexanedione decreased the rate of non-saturable degradation of NLDL by 30%, but increased that of FHLDL by 75%. These experiments show differences between the degradation of 125I-labelled NLDL and FHLDL. They suggest that macrophages can degrade LDL by a saturable process with different properties from that mediated by the fibroblast receptor and that, in vitro, the rate of degradation of the modified LDL is not the same as the rate of non-receptor-mediated degradation of unmodified LDL.
Metabolic-morphologic characteristics of the integument of teleost fish with mature lymphocystis nodules.	Normal and virus-infected (lymphocystis disease) integument from five species of teleosts was examined by light and TEM autoradiography and SEM to establish metabolic-morphologic characteristics of integument with mature lymphocystis cells (LC's). LC's with numerous morphologic attributes of a late developmental stage showed highest incorporation of [3H]-thymidine in vivo (1-91 h) above the intracytoplasmic inclusion body (ci) with little radiolabel in nuclei, cytoplasmic icosahedral deoxyriboviruses (ICDV's) or capsule. Analysis by quantitative autoradiography revealed that the % total cell label in ci and cytoplasm did not vary appreciably from 1-91 h and was corroborative with morphologic criteria of maturity. A possibly phylogenetic difference was noted between teleosts, wherein normal integument showed uptake of [3H]-thymidine in vivo (1 h) by cells at all levels of the epidermis, and cyclostomes (Spitzer et al. 1979) wherein labeling was confined to the basal third of the epidermis. Among four infected teleost species, the mean diameters of the ICDV's measured under the same conditions, ranged from 259.5 nm to 290.0 nm with the mean for each species differing significantly (p less than 0.01) from each of the other means. Ruptured LC's were shown by TEM and SEM to have released ICDV's onto the lesions and integument. Various stages of LC degeneration, host response, and integumental repair processes were documented. An evaluation of labeling in vivo of the capsular matrix was compatible ([3H]-D-galactose greater than [3H]-L-lysine much greater than [3H]-L-fucose) with a glycosaminoglycan-protein structure.
The formation of benzo [a] pyrene - deoxyribonucleoside adducts in vivo and in vitro.	The formation of DNA-bound products from benzo [a]-pyrene was studied using metabolic activation systems of widely differing cellular and structural integrity. The nature of the benzo [a] pyrene-metabolite-deoxyribonucleoside adducts formed was markedly dependent on the nature of the activation system using. systems where cellular integrity is preserved, namely mouse skin in vivo and rat liver hepatocytes and lung explants in vitro, when treated with benzo [a] pyrene, formed deoxyribonucleoside adducts of which the major one co-chromatographed with a bay-region diol epoxide-deoxyguanosine adduct, 10 beta-(deoxyguanosin-N2-yl)-7 beta, 8 alpha, 9 alpha-trihydroxy-7,8,9,10-tetrahydrobenzo-[a] pyrene. In striking contrast, the use of activating systems with disrupted cellular integrity such as rat liver, rat lung and mouse skin microsomal fractions, in the presence of benzo [a] pyrene and exogenous DNA, resulted in the formation of deoxyribonucleoside adducts derived predominantly from either a further metabolite of 9-hydroxybenzo [a] pyrene or (+/-) benzo [a] pyrene-4,5-epoxide. The consequences of such results are important when considering the widespread use of subcellular fractions such as microsomes as metabolic activating systems for short-term mutagenicity and carcinogenicity tests.
Tissue sites of degradation of native and reductively methylated [14C]sucrose-labeled low density lipoprotein in rats. Contribution of receptor-dependent and receptor-independent pathways.	Low density lipoprotein (LDL) is catabolized by both receptor-dependent and receptor-independent pathways; methylated LDL (MeLDL) is catabolized only by receptor-independent mechanisms. Rats were injected with either LDL or MeLDL labeled with [14C]sucrose and the tissue sites of degradation were determined 24 h later. On degradation, the 14C-labeled ligand remains trapped intracellularly as a cumulative measure of degradation. The fractional catabolic rate (FCR) of [14C]sucrose-MeLDL was lower than that of [14C]sucrose-LDL (0.056 +/- 0.015 versus 0.118 +/- 0.025 h-1, p less than 0.01). Liver was the predominant site of catabolism of both LDL and MeLDL; more than 85% of catabolism was attributable to parenchymal cells in both cases. The fraction of the plasma LDL pool "cleared" per tissue weight per unit of time was determined for individual tissues. The differences in these rates for LDL and MeLDL are an approximation of receptor-mediated uptake of LDL. According to this method, 67.4% of hepatic uptake was attributable to receptors, as was 69.5% of adrenal, 65.4% of ovarian, 52.4% of intestinal, and 44.2% of renal uptake. In other studies, rats were continuously infused with LDL to down-regulate and saturate receptor prior to injection of labeled LDL or MeLDL. Rats infused with LDL exhibited a lower FCR for [14C]sucrose-LDL compared to controls (0.077 versus 0.120 h-1); the FCR for sucrose-MeLDL was unchanged by LDL infusion. The fractional degradation rate of [14C]sucrose-LDL by individual tissues was lowered by LDL infusion in liver, adrenal, ovary, and intestine (41.4, 57.3, 23.1, and 32.4% lower than controls, respectively). The determination of receptor dependency by this independent approach supports the conclusions reached using [14C]sucrose-LDL and [14C]sucrose-MeLDL in normolipemic animals.
Fate of human corticotrophin immediately after intravenous administration to the rat.	The distribution and degradation of tritium-labelled human 1-39 corticotrophin have been studied after intravenous administration to the rat. Within 5 min of injection of single major metabolite, 3-39 corticotrophin, appears in the circulation. This metabolite, however, has only 3.6% of the steroidogenic potency of 1-39 corticotrophin and the evidence suggests that it is formed in muscle and skin. By 5 min, extensive degradation had occurred in all the major tissues in the body (muscle, skin, liver, kidney, gut).
Orally administered ketoconazole: route of delivery to the human stratum corneum.	Delivery of ketoconazole to human stratum corneum was studied. Thirteen healthy volunteers, three patients with chronic fungal disease and one patient with palmar-plantar hyperhidrosis were given 400 mg of ketoconazole daily for various lengths of time. The ketoconazole content of palmar stratum corneum, eccrine sweat, sebum, and serum was measured by high-pressure liquid chromatography (sensitivity, 0.005 to 0.010 microgram/ml). Palmar stratum corneum obtained after 7 and 14 days of daily administration contained up to 14 micrograms of ketoconazole per g. Ketoconazole was not found in sebum after 7 or 14 days of daily ingestion of the antimycotic agent. Sebum from three patients with chronic fungal infection treated for greater than 9 months contained ketoconazole (means, 4.7 micrograms/g). Thermogenic whole body eccrine sweat contained a mean of 0.059 microgram/ml on day 7 and 0.084 microgram/ml on day 14 of daily administration. Ketoconazole appeared in thermogenic whole body eccrine sweat and palmar hyperhidrotic sweat within 1 h after a single oral dose. Partition studies of ketoconazole containing eccrine sweat demonstrated a 10-fold greater concentration in the sediment phase (desquamated keratinocytes) compared with the clear supernatant phase. In vitro studies with [3H]ketoconazole-supplemented supernatant sweat revealed preferential binding to stratum corneum, hair, and nails and its partitioning to lipid-rich sebum. We conclude that eccrine sweat rapidly transports ketoconazole across the blood-skin barrier, where it may bind or partition to keratinocytes and surface lipids.
Synthesis of a PDGF-like growth factor in human glioma and sarcoma cells suggests the expression of the cellular homologue to the transforming protein of simian sarcoma virus.	Several human normal and neoplastic cell lines were screened for production of PDGF receptor competing activity. Conditioned medium from two sarcomas and one glioma blocked 125I-PDGF binding to human foreskin fibroblasts in a dose-dependent manner. In each case this effect was abolished when the conditioned medium was pretreated with PDGF-antiserum, indicating that the receptor competing activity was immunologically related to PDGF. Direct evidence for de novo synthesis of a PDGF-like component in the cultures was afforded by 35S-cysteine labeling of the three cell lines, followed by immunoprecipitation with PDGF antiserum. This resulted in the specific precipitation of a 31,000 molecular weight labeled protein, which upon reduction was split into two polypeptides of molecular weights 17,000 and 16,500. The significance of these findings in view of the recently discovered structure homology between PDGF and the transforming gene product of simian sarcoma virus, p28sis, is discussed.
Sodium ion modulates collagen types in human fibroblastic cells in culture.	Collagen synthesis in human fibroblasts was increased by the presence of 0.1M excess NaCl in the culture medium. Type analysis of the collagen produced by the cells showed the increase in the ratio of type III collagen to the total collagen. Similar NaCl effects were observed in several cell lines derived from different tissues. Sodium ion but not chlorine ion seems to be essential to the modulation of collagen production by the cells, because addition of CH3COONa induced similar effects but addition of KCl instead of NaCl resulted in specific inhibition of the collagen production.
Highly persistent polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon-DNA adducts in mouse skin: detection by 32P-postlabeling analysis.	A 32P-postlabeling method for carcinogen-DNA adduct analysis recently developed in our laboratory was applied to skin DNA from mice treated topically with polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs). After application of 4 doses of 1.2 mumol each of benzo[alpha]pyrene (BP), 3-methylcholanthrene (MC) and 7,12-dimethylbenz[alpha]anthracene (DMBA), respectively, total covalent adduct binding in mouse skin DNA initially amounted to 1 adduct in 6.0 X 10(4) - 1.3 X 10(5) nucleotides. Four weeks after treatment, these levels had declined to 1 adduct in 1.4 X 10(6) - 2.7 X 10(6) nucleotides. Substantial removal of DNA adducts occurred during the first 2 weeks after carcinogen application while adducts remaining thereafter underwent little or no repair between 2 and 4 weeks after treatment. These results raise the possibility that the persistent adducts occupy specific genomic sites in quiescent cells where they may not be amenable to repair because of localized conformational alterations of DNA or shielding by associated proteins.
The site of 7-dehydrocholesterol ultraviolet photolysis in domestic fowls.	The site of the photolytic reaction leading to Vitamin D3 in fowls integument has been investigated by histochemical and biochemical analysis. The Vitamin D3 precursor, 7-dehydrocholesterol, is synthetized and stored mainly in the uropygial gland and in the same localization several amount of Vitamin D3 may be biochemically detected. 7-dehydrocholesterol and Vitamin D3 are also present although in a lesser amount in the unfeathered skin of the legs. Photolytic conversion of the Vitamin D3 precursor of uropygial origin may occur also on the dorsal feathers.
Comparative study on the interstitial passage of cefuroxime, cefoxitin, cefotaxime and cefoperazone in man by the suction skin blister method.	A comparative study was carried out on the concentration of cefuroxime, cefoxitin, cefotaxime and cefoperazone in serum and extravascular blister fluid. The results show that cefoperazone (which has the highest protein binding capacity) has a lower and slower extravascular penetration than the other cephalosporins examined.
Epidermal activity in the involved and uninvolved skin of patients with psoriasis.	A simple biochemical technique has been used to study the rate of incorporation of precursor materials in the involved and uninvolved skin of psoriatic subjects. Psoriatic plaques were found to incorporate tritaited thymidine twice as rapidly as skin from control subjects. The uninvolved skin of psoriatics showed a 48% increase in thymidine incorporation. Histidine and proline incorporations were also increased in psoriatic plaques but not in the uninvolved skin of psoriatics.
The decrease of hyaluronate synthesis by anti-inflammatory steroids in vitro.	The effect of anti-inflammatory steroids (prednisolone and derivatives of hydrocortisone, dexamethasone and betamethasone) on the synthesis of hyaluronic acid and sulphated glycosaminoglycans in human skin fibroblast culture was studied. The concentrations of steroids varied between 1 x 10(-10)M and 1 x 10(-6)M. All tested steroids decreased the synthesis of hyaluronic acid to the same final level which was about 40--50% of the controls, but the concentrations required varied between different steroids. The relative inhibitory potencies of the steroids were calculated based on concentrations needed to decrease the synthesis of hyaluronate. When the inhibitory potency of hydrocortisone was calculated as one, the values of the other steroids were: prednisolone 5, hydrocortisone 17- butyrate 20, betamethasone alcohol 30, dexamethasone alcohol 38, betamethasone 17-valerate 350--400, dexamethasone monosodium phosphate and betamethasone disodium phosphate over 400. Hydrocortisone sodium succinate was as potent an inhibitor of hyaluronate synthesis as hydrocortisone alcohol. None of the tested steroids affected the synthesis of sulphated glycosaminoglycans at these concentrations. The changes ovbserved in glycosaminoglycans in the medium were in accordance with the changes in the cell layer. The possible significance of hyaluronate synthesis inhibition by anti-inflammatory steroids is discussed.
A human subject with a new defect in repair of ultraviolet damage.	The subject under study (11961) is a child with extreme sun sensitivity. Fibroblasts derived from the child's skin, like those from patients with the disorder xeroderma pigmentosum were hypersensitive to the lethal effects of 254 nm and 310 nm UV-irradiation. Unlike xeroderma pigmentosum cells, however, fibroblasts from our subject were not hypersensitive to the chemical mutagen N-hydroxyacetylaminofluorene but they were hypersensitive to ethylmethanesulfonate. Furthermore, despite the ultra violet light sensitivity, no defects could be detected either in excision or postreplication repair of damaged DNA after UV-irradiation of 11961 cells. This again contrasts with xeroderma pigmentosum cells, which are defective in one or the other of these repair processes. On the basis of these characteristics and the clinical symptoms, we are not at present able to classify this patient as having any of the known sun-sensitive syndromes.
Linoleic acid effects on epidermal DNA synthesis and cutaneous prostaglandin levels in essential fatty acid deficiency.	An essential fatty acid (EFA) deficient state has been induced in hairless mice. The epidermal changes included hyperkeratosis, hypergranulosis and acanthosis. Epidermal DNA synthesis was increased 3-fold compared with normal diet mice. Prostaglandin E (PGE) and prostaglandin F (PGF) levels, measured by radioimmunoassay, were much reduced in the EFA deficient mice skin. 10% Linoleic acid applied topically for 2 weeks corrected the gross and histological skin abnormalities and reduced epidermal DNA synthesis to normal values. The levels of PGE and PGF were only partially corrected. Linoleic acid applied to normal diet mice increased skin levels of PGE and PGF compared with the control vehicle treated normal diet mice. These results provide further evidence for the importance of essential fatty acids in the control of epidermal proliferation and differentiation. The importance of PGE and PGF in controlling epidermal DNA synthesis in EFA deficiency is less clear.
Epidermal regeneration and percutaneous water loss following cellophane stripping of reptile epidermis.	The histological and physiological effects of the removal of superficial corneous epidermal materials have been studied in several squamate species and a caiman. The gross and microscopic anatomy of the squamate integument has characteristics which make cellophane stripping inherently variable, but in general, when corneous materials were removed, they are replaced over a period of one to two weeks, by a tissue with the histological characteristics of the normal alpha-layer. This tissue may be produced by stimulated germinal activity and/or metaplasia of the other presumptive cell populations. In caiman, the thickness of the corneous tissues of the outer scale surface is reduced by stripping and the tissue is restored to normal in approximately two weeks by stimulated germinal proliferation. Measurements of cutaneous water loss (CWL) before, immediately after, and during two weeks post-trauma revealed the following. There is a sudden rise in CWL immediately after stripping, and values decline over the next two weeks as the corneous tissues are replaced. The results are interpreted as indicating that, as in mammals, the impermeability of the epidermis depends on the thickness of the corneous materials. In squamates it appears that the physiological barrier is the alpha-layer of the epidermal generation, and while the beta-layer cannot be excluded as playing some role in reducing the permeability of the integument, its role appears to be primarily mechanical.
Coordinate inhibition of DNA synthesis and thymidylate synthase activity following DNA damage and repair.	Two agents, 3-aminobenzamide (3-AB) and beta lapachone, that inhibit repair of mammalian cell DNA damaged by methyl methane sulfonate (MMS), also coordinately blocked both DNA replication (incorporation of 3H-thymidine) and thymidylate synthase (TS) activity. Aphidicolin also inhibited both 3H-TDR incorporation and TS in damaged cells, the former more strongly than the latter, in a manner not coordinated with lethality. It is proposed that the DNA lesions created by MMS and modified by repair inhibit semiconservative DNA synthesis by allosterically interacting with the DNA replication replitase complex, so as to block its overall function and also the activity of TS, one of its enzymes.
Electron microprobe analysis of frog skin epithelium: evidence for a syncytial sodium transport compartment.	For elucidation of the functional organization of frog skin epithelium with regard to transepithelial Na transport, electrolyte concentrations in individual epithelial cells were determined by electron microprobe analysis. The measurements were performed on 1-micron thick freeze-dried cryosections by an energy-dispersive X-ray detecting system. Quantification of the electrolyte concentrations was achieved by comparing the X-ray intensities obtained in the cells with those of an internal albumin standard. The granular, spiny, and germinal cells, which constitute the various layers of the epithelium, showed an identical behavior of their Na and K concentrations under all experimental conditions. In the control, both sides of the skin bathed in frog Ringer's solution, the mean cellular concentrations (in mmole/kg wet wt) were 9 for Na and 118 for K. Almost no change in the cellular Na occurred when the inside bathing solution was replaced by a Na-free isotonic Ringer's solution, whereas replacing the outside solution by distilled water resulted in a decrease of Na to almost zero in all layers. Inhibition of the transepithelial Na transport by ouabain (10(-4) M) produced in increase in Na to 109 and a decrease in K to 16. The effect of ouabain on the cellular Na and K concentrations was completely cancelled when the Na influx from the outside was prevented, either by removing Na or adding amiloride (10(-4) M). When, after the action of ouabain, Na was removed from the outside bathing solution, the Na and K concentration in all layers returned to control values. The latter effect could be abolished by amiloride. The other cell types of the epithelium showed under some experimental conditions a different behavior. In the cornified cells and the light cells, which occurred occasionally in the stratum granulosum, the electrolyte concentrations approximated those of the outer bathing medium under all experimental conditions. In the mitochondria-rich cells, the Na influx after ouabain could not be prevented by adding amiloride. In the gland cells, only a small change in the Na and K concentrations could be detected after ouabain. The results of the present study are consistent with a two-barrier concept of transepithelial Na transport. The Na transport compartment comprises all living epithelial layers. Therefore, with the exception of some epithelial cell types, the from skin epithelium can be regarded as a functional syncytium for Na.
Changes in the synthesis, distribution and sulphation of glycosaminoglycans of cultured human skin fibroblasts upon ascorbate feeding.	The effect of ascorbic acid on the synthesis, distribution and sulphation of glycosaminoglycans by human skin fibroblasts has been examined. Medium was supplemented with ascorbate over several days, and cultures incubated with [3H]glucosamine and Na2(35)SO4 for 48 h, followed by analysis of the glycosaminoglycans in the medium, in collagenase and trypsin extracts, and in cell fractions. Ascorbate feeding resulted in a reduction in hyaluronate synthesis, which was the main 3H-labelled component and was distributed mainly in the medium fractions. Sulphated glycosaminoglycans showed a reduction in incorporation of 3H label, but increased sulphation following ascorbate feeding. In control cultures 53% of 3H-labelled sulphated glycosaminoglycans and 63% of 35S-labelled glycosaminoglycans were present in the medium fraction, while in ascorbate-fed cultures, 41% of 3H label and 38% 35S label were incorporated into medium-sulphated glycosaminoglycans. Ascorbate also caused an increase in cell density and in collagen production and deposition.
Verification of the effectiveness of preventing altitude decompression disorders by nitrogen desaturation of the organism through surrounding the body with an oxygen envelope]	The purpose of the present investigation was to assess the effect of nitrogen penetrating the human skin from the ambient atmosphere on the level of denitrogenization achieved by oxygen breathing. Young healthy male test subjects were exposed to denitrogenization for 5, 6 or 8 hours by breathing pure oxygen. During that time they wore an oxygen filled suit. Then they ascended an altitude of 11,000 m and remained there for 6 hours doing exercises. Altogether 38 investigations were carried out on 13 subjects, with and without a pressure suit. The investigation did not demonstrate any specific differences in the occurrence of decompression disease at an altitude of 11,000 m with or without a pressure suit. Nitrogen penetrating through the skin from the ambient atmosphere during oxygen breathing did not influence the level of denitrogenization.
Scleroderma skin--conflicting mucopolysaccharide data reflect stages in connective tissue maturation.	It is proposed that the skin of scleroderma patients undergoes orderly temporal changes akin to connective tissue maturation which are reflected in its mucopolysaccharide composition. The apparently conflicting data on mucopolysaccharide changes in scleroderma skin reported in the literature are analyzed in the light of this hypothesis and a possible explanation for the conflict is profferred.
Specificity of histochemical reactions to melanin]	The data on complex histochemical and electron histochemical investigation reflecting specificity of the reactions applied in histochemical practice to reveal melanin are represented. Various ultrastructural localization of the substance is demonstrated both with silver and iron use (this demonstrate nonspecificity of the reactions mentioned above to melanin). Ultrastructures possessing affinity to the metal ions involved are detected; possible mechanisms of interaction between silver and iron with different cellular elements are suggested.
Sodium-depositing function of the skin in white rats]	The sodium deposing function of the skin in Wistar albino rats under conditions of different salt loads were studied. 6 mEq NaCl per os was followed by an increase in sodium content of the skin on account of the exchangeable fraction. The diet with high content of sodium (15 mEq a day during 30 days) led to saturation of the skin storage structures, the blood sodium concentration after a single salt load increasing sharply. The storage of sodium in the skin is, evidently, carried out with the aid of the cation by glycosamino--glycans. The increase in exchangeable sodium of the skin under the condition of highsodium regimen is, evidently, due to an increase in sulphated GAG.
Distribution of a major connective tissue protein, fibronectin, in normal human tissues.	Fibronectin is a major surface-associated glycoprotein of cultured fibroblasts and it is also present in human plasma. Antiserum specific for human fibronectin was used to study the distribution of fibronectin in normal adult human tissues. The protein was detected (a) characteristically in various basement membranes including capillary walls: (b) around individual smooth muscle cells and in the sarcolemma of striated muscle fibers; and (c) in the stroma of lymphatic tissue and as thin fibers in loose connective tissue. The distribution of fibronectin was distinct from that of collagen and elastic fibers, but was very similar to reticulin, as demonstrated by conventional histological staining. The results indicate that fibronectin is a major component of connective tissue matrix. The distribution also indicates that most types of adherent cells abut fibronectin-containing structures. This supports the possible role of fibronectin in cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions in tissues.
Comparison between active transport of T1+, K+ and Rb+ across the isolated short-circuited frog skin.	Active transport of T1+ by frog skin was compared with transport of K+ and Rb+. T1+ was transported actively (using a Na,K-ATPase) by the epithelium and the adrenaline-stimulated glands. In the epithelium, K+, T1+ and Rb+ competed for transport in the ratio 1:1.7:0.9; in the glands the ratio was 1:1:1.
Collagen synthesis in generalized morphea.	Synthesis of collagen and non-collagenous proteins was measured in fibroblast cultures derived from different layers of the dermis from a patient with an early stage of localized scleroderma. Increased synthesis of collagen was found in fibroblasts grown from the subcutaneous fat of this patient, whereas cells obtained from the papillary dermis revealed normal metabolism. These data agree with the results obtained in previous experiments with cells derived from patients with progressive systemic sclerosis in primary culture, thus indicating that the two diseases have a common pathomechanism. Several subcultures of the activated fibroblast populations were also studied. Normal collagen synthesis in these cultures was observed after the fifth passage, probably indicating selection of cell populations or loss of the previous phenotype.
Malathion binding to sections of human skin: skin capacity and isotherm determinations.	Human autopsy skin was sliced into three sections: an outer epidermis-rich layer, a middle dermis layer, and an inner dermis and subcutaneous fat layer. Each skin slice was bathed in malathion solutions over a 100-fold concentration range of 0.02-3.0 microM/g skin for 48 h at 37 degrees C. Malathion uptake approximated 50% for each skin layer over the total concentration range. Skin capacity for malathion is thus large. Single and double compartment dialysis was used to determine free and bound malathion. Isotherm calculations gave a partition coefficient intercept for epidermis-rich and dermis tissues with aqueous buffer of 2.72 and 2.74, respectively. That of the inner layer of skin was less at 1.70. When malathion was dialyzed against simulated plasma, the binding decreased 2-fold. Since the least partition coefficient (less bound malathion) was in the inner layer of skin, and since malathion has a preference for plasma over water, the two (inner skin and plasma) may combine to create the sink conditions necessary for malathion percutaneous absorption into the body.
Cellular kinetics in nonbullous ichthyosiforme erythroderma]	An in vitro double labeling technique with 3H-Tdr has been used to study the cell renewal in three cases of lamellar ichthyosis. Each case was characterized by a rapid rate of cell proliferation as it occurs in psoriasis. But, in contrast to psoriasis, lamellar ichthyosis has no increased proportion of germinative cells and exhibits prominent granular layer. Horny layer at light microscopy is mainly orthokeratotic. This indicates that increased mitotic activity alone cannot account for the typical acanthosis of psoriasis.
Vitamin A transporting proteins in human epidermis and blister fluids.	In connection with studies on vitamin A transport to keratinocytes in vivo, the retinol, retinol-binding protein (RBP), and prealbumin contents of blister fluid obtained subepidermally (suction) or intraepidermally (friction) were analyzed. The median concentrations of the three components in suction blister fluid (SBF) were all about 33% of the serum concentrations. Corresponding values for alpha 2-macroglobulin and total protein, measured as controls, were 27 and 30%, respectively. The relative amounts of retinol and prealbumin in friction blister fluid (FBF) were the same as those in SBF. By contrast, FBF contained more RBP (median value 40%; P less than 0.01 vs SBF value). It is suggested that apo-RBP (RBP without retinol) is generated within the epidermis and contributes to the high RBP value in FBF. FBF constituents are probably derived from the intercellular space of the epidermis, at least during the initial phase of blister formation. Accordingly, RBP and prealbumin were identified in homogenates of pure epidermis. During the later stages of blister formation, FBF resembles an ultrafiltrate of dermal fluid, although different in this respect from SBF.
Errors in potassium balance.	Six overweight adult subjects given a low calorie diet containing adequate amounts of nitrogen but subnormal amounts of potassium (K) were observed on the Clinical Research Center for periods of 29 to 40 days. Metabolic balance of potassium was measured together with frequent assays of total body K by 40K counting. Metabolic K balance underestimated body K loses by 11 to 87% (average 43%); the intersubject variability is such as to preclude the use of a single correction value for unmeasured losses in K balance studies.
New regulators of melanogenesis are associated with purified tyrosinase isozymes.	Three new regulatory factors in the melanogenesis pathway were recently described: dopachrome conversion factor accelerates the conversion of dopachrome to 5,6-dihydroxyindole; indole conversion factor accelerates the conversion of 5, 6-dihydroxyindole into melanin; and indole blocking factor retards the conversion of 5, 6-dihydroxyindole into melanin. Exposure of wild-type Cloudman melanoma cells in culture to melanotropin (MSH) removes blocking factor activity and increases indole conversion factor activity. The chemical nature of factors has not yet been determined. In this report we demonstrate that highly purified isozymes of tyrosinase from C57B1/6N murine hair bulbs and B16 murine melanoma are closely associated with conversion and blocking factor activities. The soluble isozymes. T1, T2, and T2 contain blocking factor activity, while isozyme T4, the major tyrosinase species found in melanosomes, contains activity that accelerates melanin formation from dopachrome. The results suggest that melanogenesis is regulated by the association of these different factors with the specific tyrosinase isozymes.
Structural abnormalities in the dermal collagen and elastic matrix from the skin of patients with inherited connective tissue disorders.	Skin from patients with inherited disorders of connective tissue metabolism (EDS Types I-IX, Marfan's syndrome, osteogenesis imperfecta, spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia, and cutis laxa) has been examined by light and transmission electron microscopy for defects in the collagen and elastic fibrous connective tissue which may explain the clinical disorder and/or correlate with the biochemical defect (where known). Alterations were observed in the organization of the dermis and in the individual collagen and elastic fibers. The major alterations observed among collagen fibrils were hieroglyphic-shaped fibrils, collagen flowers, unravelled fibrils and fibrils of normal shape but abnormally large or small diameters or a mixed population of both. Elastic fibrils were sometimes fragmented, highly branched, granular, densely stained and had inclusions suggestive of cellular debris. These changes appeared to be a consequence of degradative processes. Other fibers were seen with a paucity of elastin matrix associated with the microfibrils or with totally separate deposition of the two elastic fiber components. Such fibers were barely visible by light microscopy. Alterations were observed in tissue concurrently regardless of whether the biochemical defect was related to only one of these connective tissue structures. The observations support an hypothesis that alterations in one component of the connective tissue matrix may influence the deposition and structure of others, ultimately, modifying the overall organization and mechanical properties of the tissue.
K+-permeability of the outer border of the frog skin (R. temporaria).	Skins from Rana temporaria, investigated with microelectrode techniques in the absence of Na uptake across the outer border (Na-free epithelial solution or amiloride), were found to be permeable to K+ at the apical membrane in 10-20% of the experiments. Full development of the K+-permeable state requires the absence of Na+ uptake for certain periods of time, which suggests that the K+-permeability of the apical membrane is higher at lower intracellular [Na]. The addition of Ba++ reduces the K+-permeability of the apical membrane. These skins may provide a model for the study of transcellular K+ movements.
Effect of external cation and anion substitutions on sodium transport in isolated frog skin.	Effects of changes in external ionic strength, external cation and/or anion substitution on transepithelial influx and efflux of sodium, short-circuit current and on transepithelial potential difference and resistance were studied in isolated frog skin. Active transport of Na was found to be highly dependent on both anionic and cationic composition of external medium. Relative abilities of external monovalent cations to inhibit active Na transport were H greater than Li greater than K greater than Rb greater than Cs greater than choline. Relative abilities of external monovalent anions to stimulate active Na transport were I greater than Br greater than Cl. Sequences of anion interaction and of resistance changes suggest that anionic stimulation of Na transport is not due to electrical coupling across outer cell membrane. The ability of different anions and cations to alter Na transport suggests that externally located charged groups act as important barriers or filters to ion movement. In addition, the experiments suggest that an increase in ionic strength of external medium has an effect on active transport of Na, a finding that indicates interference of surface charges with Na entry. Directional changes in efflux of Na due to changes in ionic composition of external medium usually paralleled changes in active Na transport. It is possible that the observed relationship between influx and efflux of Na is the result of common pathways and of interaction of the active transport system with Na efflux.
A scanning micropipette molecule microscope.	A movable quartz micropipette, whose tip is sealed with a polymer plug, is used as a liquid-vacuum interface to a mass spectrometer. A light microscope allows observation of, and positioning of, the micropipette tip on the surface of a sample mounted in a perfusion chamber. This forms the basis of an instrument which enables one to study, in vitro, the localization of transepithelial transport of water and other molecules. Some preliminary results from the use of this instrument are presented.
Androgen receptor in human skin cytosol.	Human skin, an accessible tissue, is an androgen target organ. We have measured the androgen-binding capacity of human skin cytosol using either 5 alpha[3H]dihydrotestosterone ([3H]DHT) or [3H]methyltrienolone ([3H]R-1881) as ligand. Samples were incubated for 20 h at 0 C, and dextran-coated charcoal was used to separate bound from free steroids. The androgen receptor has a high affinity for both ligands (0.23 +/- 0.04 nM for [3H]DHT; 0.32 +/- 0.16 nM for [3H]R-1881). Testosterone, cyproterone acetate, and, to a lesser extent, estradiol also bind this protein. Progesterone displaces R-1881 from its binding sites, whereas its 5 alpha-reduced metabolite somewhat inhibits DHT binding. The highest binding capacity is measured in cytosol of skin from external genitalia (129.14 +/- 58.0 fmol/g skin; n = 34); it is lower in pubic skin (21.8 +/- 13 fmol/g skin; n = 6). There is no variation as a function of age or sex in genital skin; the higher concentrations observed in the cytosol of pubic skin of women compared to that of men are probably related to lower levels of endogenous steroids. Whereas most patients with the complete form of the testicular feminization syndrome do not have detectable concentrations of androgen receptor, one patient with apparent complete clinical androgen insensitivity had a normal androgen-binding capacity. The parity of values in genital skin from men and women, the absence of variation with age, and the presence of a cytosolic androgen receptor in some androgen-insensitive patients suggest that the androgen receptor in human skin cytosol is not regulated by androgens.
Epidermal growth factor induces electrically silent Na+ influx in human fibroblasts.	Addition of epidermal growth factor (EGF) to quiescent confluent cultures of human foreskin fibroblasts causes a rapid, nearly 2-fold stimulation of unidirectional Na+ influx and a doubling of the rate of the Na+,K+ pump, whereas K+ efflux remains unaltered. The diuretic amiloride, an inhibitor of Na+/H+ exchange, completely blocks EGF-induced Na+ influx, Na+,K+-pump activity, and DNA synthesis without affecting the cellular binding, visible clustering, and internalization of 125I-labeled and fluorescent EGF. In the absence of EGF, the induction of amiloride-sensitive Na+ influx and Na+,K+-pump activity can be mimicked by exposing the cells to weak acids. Neither the rapid stimulation of Na+ influx by EGF nor its inhibition by amiloride is accompanied by a detectable change in membrane potential (mean value of -66 mV), as evidenced by direct intracellular recording. In contrast, a rapid but transient membrane depolarization of about 50 mV, due to an unselective permeability increase, is observed in response to serum-growth factors. These results (i) indicate that EGF rapidly activates an electroneutral, previously inactive Na+ transport system in the plasma membrane of quiescent fibroblasts, and (ii) suggest that EGF-induced Na+ influx occurs in exchange for intracellular protons. The data further imply that early changes in membrane potential are not necessary for the initiation of a mitogenic response.
Demonstration of a primary (? genetic) defect in insulin receptors in fibroblasts from a patient with the syndrome of insulin resistance and acanthosis nigricans type A.	We have studied insulin binding to cultured skin fibroblasts from a patient with the Type A syndrome of insulin resistance and acanthosis nigricans. Insulin binding was decreased aobut 50% at low insulin concentrations. This was due to a decrease in receptor affinity and in increase in the rate of dissociation of insulin from the receptor. In addition, there was a loss of negative cooperativity, as measured by the ability of unlabeled insulin to accelerate dissociation. This defect in the receptor was stable for up to 16 passages of the cells. By contrast, binding of epidermal growth factor did not differ from control. These data suggest that the Type A syndrome of insulin resistance is due to a primary, and possibly genetic, defect in the insulin receptor.
Atopic dermatitis.	Atopic dermatitis is a chronically relapsing inflammatory skin disease with altered immune and pharmacologic responses. Elevated serum IgE probably reflects defective immune regulation. Various other cellular immune defects rise and fall exacerbations and remissions of skin inflammation. Increased responsiveness to cholinergic and alpha adrenergic agents may relate to abnormalities of cyclic nucleotide regulation. Recent observations of abnormal cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)-phosphodiesterase activity in atopic dermatitis may provide new insights into the pathogenesis and treatment of the disease.
Inhibition of collagen accumulation in fibrotic processes: review of pharmacologic agents and new approaches with amino acids and their analogues.	Accumulation of collagen is the major pathologic feature in a variety of fibrotic processes, including dermal fibrosis in progressive systemic sclerosis, morphea, familial cutaneous collagenoma, connective tissue nevi of the collagen type and in keloids. Recent advances in the biochemistry of collagen have allowed us to define specific levels of collagen biosynthesis and degradation at which a pharmacologic intervention can lead to reduced collagen deposition. In this review, we are discussing the mechanisms of action by some of the therapeutic agents currently in use. We further present some new developments involving amino acids and their analogues which could potentially provide us with novel means to reduce the excessive accumulation of collagen in dermal fibrotic processes.
Collagens of basement membranes.	Recent biochemical and immunohistochemical studies have described several components of basement membranes including heparan sulfate proteoglycan, 2 high molecular weight glycoproteins (fibronectin and laminin), and 2 collagen types (IV and V). These collagens have several properties which distinguish them from other types that are located in the interstitium: (a) type IV forms an amorphous, felt-like matrix, and neither IV nor V is found in large, cross-banded fibrils, (b) both have an increased content of hydrophobic amino acids, (c) the precursor (pro) forms are larger than those of interstitial collagens, (d) type IV contains interruptions within the triple helix, and e) both IV and V are resistant to human skin collagenase but are substrates for selected neutral proteases derived from mast cells, macrophages, and granulocytes. By immunofluorescence staining, type IV collagen has been localized to basement membranes at the dermal-epidermal junction, in capillaries, and beneath endothelial cells in larger vessels. Ultrastructurally it has been shown to be a specific component of the lamina densa. Type V collagen has been localized to the pericellular matrices of several cells types and may be specific for extramembranous structures which are closely associated with basal laminae. Other collagenous proteins have been described which may be associated with the extracellular matrix. One of these is secreted by endothelial cells in culture and by peptide mapping represents a novel collagen type. It is secreted under ascorbate-free conditions and is highly sensitive to proteolytic degradation. It has been proposed that a dynamic reciprocity exists between cells and their extracellular matrix which partially determines cell shape, biosynthesis, migration, and attachment. Examples of phenotypic modulation in several of these phenomena have been shown with endothelial cells grown on different substrates and isolated from different vascular environments.
Lathyrism and collagens I and III (author's transl)]	The administration of lathyrogenetic agents (BAPN) at weak and prolonged doses (9 weeks, 1 g/kg/day) induced in the rat simultaneous alterations of aortic and cutaneous connective tissues comparable to the modifications observed during ageing in man. The lathyrogens produced this effect by inhibiting lysine-oxydase, the enzyme responsible for cross-linking collagen and elastin which leads to an increase in extractable collagen in the tissues. But BAPN did not appear to affect synthesis of collagen either in amount or in types I and III collagen ratio.
Insulin responsiveness of superficial forearm tissues in type 2 (non-insulin dependent) diabetes.	Forearm perfusion studies were carried out to determine the responsiveness to insulin of the superficial forearm tissues in non-obese Type 2 (non-insulin-dependent) diabetics, and the interrelationships among plasma concentrations of glucose, insulin and non-esterified fatty acids (NEFA), tissue uptake of glucose and insulin and tissue release of NEFA. It was found that: (1) in normal subjects, uptake of glucose was dependent on glucose concentration. It was also dependent on insulin concentration in the range of 0-30 mU/l, but not over a wider range of insulin concentration (less than 66 mU/l), indicating that the insulin effect was maximal at approximately 30 mU/l. In contrast, glucose uptake in diabetics was independent of glucose concentration but dependent on insulin uptake over an insulin concentration range up to 140 mU/l; glucose uptake reached the same levels as in control subjects but only at higher concentration and higher uptake of insulin. (2) Insulin uptake was directly dependent on insulin concentration and the regression coefficients were very similar in the two groups. (3) NEFA concentration fell to comparable levels in the two groups of subjects in response to insulin. It is concluded that in Type 2 diabetes: (1) the superficial forearm tissues show decreased responsiveness to the stimulatory effect of both hyperglycaemia and hyperinsulinaemia on glucose utilization but the NEFA-lowering effect of insulin is undiminished, and (2) tissue uptake of insulin is normal, despite the decrease in receptor capacity that has been demonstrated by others.
The exclusion of human serum albumin by human dermal collagenous fibres and within human dermis.	Preparations of dermal collagenous fibres and slices of human dermis have been equilibrated with 125I-labelled monomeric human serum albumin. The space inaccessible to the albumin in the fibres and in the dermis was determined by subtraction of the accessible space, calculated from the radioactivity of the specimen, from its total fluid. For a fibre preparation examined in detail, the fluid exclusion was independent of the concentration of either albumin or collagen. Binding of albumin to the fibres was not demonstrable. Three fibre preparations excluded albumin from 3.75 +/- 0.96, 3.55 +/- 0.67, and 2.05 +/- 0.39 g of fluid/g of collagen (+/-S.D.). Slices from three specimens of dermis excluded albumin from 1.45 +/- 0.08 g of fluid/g of insoluble solids or 1.57 +/- 0.11 g of fluid/g of collagen (+/-S.D.). Thus the exclusion of albumin by dermis was much less than expected from its content of collagenous fibres. On the basis of these data and the published composition of dermis, the concentration of albumin in the accessible interstitial space was estimated to be close to that in the plasma.
Defective catabolism of low-density lipoprotein by fibroblasts from patients with I-cell disease.	Skin fibroblast cultures from patients with I-cell disease (mucolipidosis II) are characterized by multiple lysosomal enzyme deficiencies The present studies deal with the consequences of these deficiencies with respect to the metabolism of plasma low-density lipoproteins. Degradation of the protein moiety was defective in I-cells compared with control cells, but the binding and internalization of low density lipoprotein were much less affected. Measurements of low-density lipoprotein degradation in homogenates demonstrated directly for the first time a deficiency of acid proteinase activity in I-cell fibroblasts. Comparison of results in 6-h incubations with those in 24-h incubations showed accumulation of intracellular low-density lipoprotein in I-cell fibroblasts and an accelerating rate of degradation, possibly attributable to intracellular accumulation of low-density lipoprotein substrate. The significance of these findings with respect to low-density lipoprotein metabolism in vivo is discussed.
Bile acid profiles of human serum and skin interstitial fluid and their relationship to pruritus studied by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.	1. Pruritus was assessed in 19 patients by measurement of nocturnal limb movement. 2. Serum (nine pruritic, ten non-pruritic) and interstitial fluid (five pruritic, three non-pruritic) bile acids were fractionated according to their mode of conjugation by using DEAP-Sephadex LH-20 and measured by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. 3. No correlation was found between serum or interstitial fluid total bile acid or individual bile acid concentrations and pruritus. Bile acid profiles in the two groups of patients were similar and there was no correlation between pruritus and the conjugation pattern. 4. Te bile acid profile of interstitial fluid reflected that of serum and a linear relationship was found between serum and interstitial fluid bile acid concentrations (r ;.95, P less than 0.001). 5. The proportion of bile acid sulphate in interstitial fluid was significantly smaller than that in serum (P less than 0.025), where sulphates accounted for up to 46% of the total bile acids. 6. In three patients, a decrease in serum bile acid concentrations achieved by percutaneous transhepatic biliary drainage had little or no effect on pruritus. 7. These findings suggest that bile acids do not have a causative role in the pruritus of cholestatic liver disease.
Removable fluid-containing chamber for in vivo guinea pig skin studies.	A removable, fluid-tight chamber is discussed that may be used to measure ion flux through the skin. This chamber adheres to clipped guinea pig skin with the use of silicone rubber adhesive, where hair stubble facilitates attachment. The technique also should work well for other hairy species. Experiments may be performed on hairless skin provided the adhesive is incompletely cured and the chamber is held in place by a strap.
Alkaline phosphatase-positive Langerhans cells in the epidermis of cattle.	Dendritic alkaline phosphatase-positive cells in the epidermis of cattle were studied. By light microscopy they were shown to occur in basal and suprabasal positions in the epidermis, with their dendrites reaching into outer layers of the stratum spinosum. They were also found in the external root sheaths of hair follicles. In separated epidermal sheets from ears of cattle these cells were found to be uniformly distributed with an average concentration of approximately 1,600 cells/mm2. Langerhans cells were identified in the epidermis by the presence of dendritic cells of Langerhans cell granules, a lobated nucleus and clear cytoplasm and the absence of desmosomes, tonofilaments, premelanosomes, and melanosomes. Alkaline phosphatase activity was associated with the plasmalemma of such cells and occasionally with cytoplasmic inclusions which may have been Langerhans cell granules. Enzyme activity was not associated with melanocytes or keratinocytes. It is confirmed that alkaline phosphatase activity is a feature of Langerhans cells, and possibly "indeterminate" cells in the normal epidermis of cattle.
Percutaneous absorption of methotrexate: effect on epidermal DNA synthesis in hairless mice.	One of the presumed reasons for the lack of clinical activity of topical methotrexate in psoriasis is insufficient percutaneous penetration necessary to inhibit epidermal DNA synthesis. The present study was undertaken to select a vehicle to optimize penetration of methotrexate in vitro and to determine the effects of this topical formulation on epidermal DNA synthesis in vivo in hairless mouse skin. Increased penetration of methotrexate was obtained in human skin in vitro with Vehicle N compared to water and n-decylmethylsulfoxide vehicles. Repeated topical application of this methotrexate/Vehicle N preparation produced marked epidermal atrophy in treated sites in both normal and hyperproliferative essential fatty acid deficient hairless mouse skin without similar effects at a distant skin site. Local inhibition of epidermal DNA synthesis was also obtained without systemic effects at a distant site. These studies demonstrate that methotrexate in Vehicle N may produce a direct effect on epidermis which may be useful for the topical therapy of psoriasis.
Elastin in diseases.	Previous morphologic observations have suggested abnormalities in the elastic fibers in a number of both inherited and acquired diseases. Recent progress made in understanding of the normal biology of elastin has allowed us to examine these diseases by biochemical means. In this review we are discussing the current status of the research on the elastin diseases with particular emphasis on clinical conditions affecting skin, as for example, cutis laxa, pseudoxanthoma elasticum, and the Buschke-Ollendorff syndrome. In addition, we present new data which appears to be the first demonstration of an elastin abnormality in the Marfan syndrome.
Structure and function of basement membrane.	Progress has been made in identifying and characterizing basement membrane macromolecules, including type IV collagen, laminin, a heparan sulfate proteoglycan and bullous pemphigoid antigen. Basement membrane contains a unique collagen, type IV collagen, which is formed of pro alpha 1(IV) (Mr = 185,000) and pro alpha 2(IV) (Mr = 170,000) chains. As opposed to the fibrillar pattern seen with other collagens, the type IV collagen molecules are thought to be arranged in a honey-comb or reticular pattern which provides the major structural element of the basement membrane. Consistent with this model, type IV collagen has been localized to the basement membrane lamina densa, a nonfibrillar structure. Laminin is a large (Mr = 1,000,000) noncollagenous glycoprotein with chains of 200,000 and 400,000 daltons. It has been localized to the basement membrane lamina lucida and functions to bind epithelial cells to the basement membrane. A heparan sulfate proteoglycan has also been identified in the basement membrane. Its biological function may be to restrict the penetration of anionic macromolecules through the basement membrane. In contrast to the above-mentioned components which are found in all tissue basement membranes, bullous pemphigoid antigen is only found in certain basement membranes, mostly those of stratified squamous epithelia. Bullous pemphigoid antigen is a protein, synthesized by keratinocytes in culture, with disulfide-linked chains (Mr = 220,000). By immunoelectron microscopy, it is localized in the lamina lucida of epidermal basement membrane and is closely associated with the basal cell surface. Its biological function is not known, but could involve epidermal basal cell-substrate interactions which occur when basal cells re-epithelialize wounds.
Regulation of collagen synthesis.	Collagen synthesis is a complex orchestration of intracellular and extracellular events. In addition to synthesis of the polypeptide chains more than a dozen modifications of the molecule occur; most of these are enzymatic and specific for collagen. Regulational control of collagen synthesis promises to be equally complex. Examples are described to 4 specific regulatory influences. Ascorbic acid markedly stimulates collagen synthesis without affecting synthesis of other proteins. This effect appears to be unrelated to its cofactor roles for hydroxylation of lysine and proline. Glucocorticoids at microM concentration specifically inhibit collagen synthesis. Tissues treated with glucocorticoids have diminished levels of mRNA for collagen. During collagen synthesis the aminoterminal propeptide of procollagen is cleaved by a specific protease. This peptide appears to be a feedback inhibitor of collagen synthesis. This effect can be demonstrated in cells and in cell-free synthesizing systems. A membrane receptor system may permit the peptide to be recognized and subsequently act as a translational control mechanism. Viral transformation of fibroblasts results in selectively decreased synthesis of collagen. Levels of cytoplasmic and nuclear mRNA are likewise selectively diminished consistent with transcriptional control.
Neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy: clinical, pathologic, and biochemical delineation of a syndrome affecting both males and females.	We describe the detailed clinical, pathologic, and biochemical features of brother and sister with the neonatal onset form of adrenoleukodystrophy, together with evidence of the biochemical defect. When compared with reports of previous cases, it becomes clear that this is a newly described clinical entity with remarkable uniformity of signs and very different from the usual childhood form. Some pathologic features are shared, including the morphologic abnormality of the adrenal in both neonatal and childhood forms, but deposition of abnormally metabolized lipids is more systemic and widespread in the neonatal form. The biochemistry of the disease is presented in both children and parents. Plasma values of long-chain fatty acid C26:0 are 0.328 +/- 0.18 micrograms/ml in a control population and 0.381 +/- 0.312 micrograms/ml in the father and mother. Values for C26:0 in the plasma of childhood adrenoleukodystrophy are 1.62 +/- 0.87 micrograms/ml and in our two cases, 2.79 micrograms/ml in the male, 1.83 micrograms/ml in the female. The basic biochemical defect appears to be a diminished capacity to oxidize these fatty acids leading to accumulation in cholesterol esters. Fatty acid oxidation to CO2 by cultured skin fibroblasts was 51% of control value for stearic acid, 5% for lignoceric acid in the male, and 39% of control value for stearic acid, 5% for lignoceric acid in the female. The genetics of this disease is different; whereas childhood adrenoleukodystrophy is X-linked, the neonatal onset form affects males and females equally and is most probably autosomally recessive in inheritance.
Effects of increased venous pressure on albumin- and IgG-excluded volumes in skin.	The effect of increased venous pressure on the exclusion of plasma albumin and gamma-immunoglobulin G (IgG) in skin interstitium was studied in anesthetized rabbits. In eight rabbits, venous pressure in the left leg was increased from 7 to 26 mmHg, while the right leg served as a control. Samples of plasma and prenodal popliteal lymph were collected for 4 h before taking samples of heel skin. The extracellular and plasma spaces in the tissue samples were measured using 51Cr-labeled ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) and 125I-labeled human serum albumin, respectively. The protein spaces were calculated from measurements of endogenous albumin and IgG concentrations using rocket electroimmunoassay. For control skin, albumin and IgG were both excluded from 50% of the interstitial space. The interstitial space after venous congestion was increased 1.4 times control. There was a washout of interstitial albumin and no change in the albumin-excluded volume fraction. For IgG, there was no change in the extravascular mass and a decrease in the excluded volume fraction. Changes in the interstitial gel matrix of skin were different from those in visceral organs and consistent with a greater amount of collagen.
Effects of probucol on the cholesterol content of skin in type II hyperlipoproteinemias.	500 mg of probucol were given twice a day for 6 months to 20 type II hyperlipoproteinemic patients, 14 men and 6 women, including 10 type IIb and 10 type IIa cases. Tendon xanthomas were present in 11 and xanthelasma in 4. Their mean blood cholesterol level was 435 +/- 100 mg/100 ml and triglycerides 210 +/- 138 mg/100 ml. A normal diet was maintained during the treatment period. Skin biopsies were made on the forearm, before and after the 6 month treatment. After lyophilization of the skin fragments, the free and esterified cholesterol contents were measured by gas chromatography after preparative thin layer chromatography on silica gel. The free and esterified cholesterol contents of the skin both appear to be significantly increased when the values found before treatment in these patients are compared with those of skin analysis in 10 normal controls: 2.25 to 1.58 micrograms/mg freeze-dried skin, p less than 0.001 for the esterified fraction. After 6 month probucol treatment the free cholesterol does not change significantly (2.25 to 2.16) and the esterified cholesterol increases (0.44 to 0.66, p less than 0.01). This effect is suggestive of an interaction of probucol with the synthesis and transport of cholesterol at the tissue level. It may be significant for the understanding of the effects of this drug and others on xanthelasma, tendon xanthomas, and atherosclerosis. In one of the cases studied here, the xanthelasma was greatly reduced during the treatment.
Asymmetric distribution of sites with high affinity for antithrombin III in rat skin heparin proteoglycans.	The distribution of sites with high affinity for antithrombin III in [35S]heparin proteoglycans from rat skin was studied by affinity chromatography of the intact proteoglycans (Mr congruent to 1 x 10(6)) and degradation products. Unfractionated proteoglycan and proteoglycan fractions with low affinity and high affinity separated on antithrombin III-agarose were treated with alkali, releasing heparin chains (Mr congruent to 1 x 10(5)). Each chain preparation was fractionated on antithrombin III-agarose into fractions with low affinity and high affinity. Unfractionated proteoglycan and proteoglycan fractions with low affinity and high affinity were incubated with rat serum at pH 6.0, which gave products of similar size to commercial heparins (Mr congruent to 1 x 10(4)) termed heparin fragments. Each fragment preparation was fractionated on antithrombin III-agarose, yielding fractions with no affinity, low affinity, and high affinity, 40% of the proteoglycan preparation had low affinity, containing 4% high affinity chains and 7% high affinity fragments. The high affinity proteoglycan fraction yielded 40% high affinity chains and 22% high affinity fragments. The data show that the distribution of binding sites with high affinity for antithrombin III in heparin proteoglycans is highly asymmetric. Therefore, the concept that polymer modification reactions occurring during heparin biosynthesis, which must be involved in the formation of high affinity binding sites, occur in a random way must be reappraised.
Studies on the percutaneous absorption of benzoyl peroxide (author's transl)]	The percutaneous penetration and the metabolism of benzoyl peroxide (BPO) were assessed in vitro on human skin and in vivo on 5 patients with leg ulcers. The BPO in vitro absorbed by the skin was converted to benzoic acid preferably in the dermis. The portion penetrated through the skin was benzoic acid only. Also in patients treated with BPO, no BPO could be detected in the serum. These findings show that BPO as such is absorbed by the skin, but is systemically absorbed only after the metabolisation to benzoic acid. Therefore a systemic-toxic effect in local therapy with BPO can be excluded.
Sphingomyelin suppresses the binding and utilization of low density lipoproteins by skin fibroblasts.	Cultured human skin fibroblasts incubated at 37 degrees C with sonically dispersed, positively charged liposomes containing sphingomyelin internalized and metabolized the phospholipid. Sphingomyelin incorporation into the cells produced a reduction in low density lipoprotein binding and degradation. Lecithin-containing liposomes were much less effective. In addition, incubation with sphingomyelin resulted in a marked increase in acetate incorporation into sterol. These results suggest that sphingomyelin, which is required by cells for membrane synthesis, can influence the regulation of the cell surface low density lipoprotein receptor and intracellular cholesterol balance.
Genetic expression of Wilson's disease in cell culture: a diagnostic marker.	Wilson's disease fibroblasts have an elevated intracellular copper concentration as compared to cultured control cells. A decreased ratio of copper to protein was observed in cytoplasmic protein (or proteins) having a molecular weight greater than or equal to 30,000 in Wilson's disease cells. The results of this culture study indicate its potential importance in the early unequivocal diagnosis of this disorder.
Unscheduled DNA synthesis in psoriatic skin after ultraviolet irradiation and the effects of a combined treatment with 8-methoxypsoralen and longwave ultraviolet radiation: a clinical study.	Biopsies were taken from psoriatic patients undergoing photochemotherapy and then studied by autoradiography to investigate possible unscheduled DNA synthesis (UDS) following 8-MOP photodamage in epidermal cels. No sparse labelling was found in seventy samples taken from twenty-four different patients during PUVA therapy, indicating a lack of UDS. In contrast, UDS was observed in three patients irradiated with an all-spectrum UV lamp, as a test for DNA damage and excision repair activity. The incorporation of 3HTdR in these keratinocytes which were not undergoing S-phase was not affected by the dose of UV-A received during different stages of PUVA treatment. The results are discussed in terms of repair of the induced photodamage at the level of DNA, and in relation to a possible risk of this treatment when it is given over a long period of time.
Collagen biosynthesis by human skin fibroblasts. I. Optimization of the culture conditions for synthesis of type I and type III procollagens.	Skin fibroblasts in culture can provide a convenient means to study aberrations of collagen metabolism in a variety of clinical conditions. In the present study, the culture conditions for the synthesis of procollagen by cultured human skin fibroblasts were optimized by independently varying parameters in the cell culture environment. To study the synthesis of procollagen the cell cultures were labeled with [3H]proline and the collagenous polypeptides were determined either by measuring the synthesis of hydroxy[3H]proline or by assaying the 3H-labeled proteins digested into dialyzable 3H-labeled peptides by bacterial collagenase. On the basis of the experimental results, the following culture conditions are suggested for optimal synthesis of procollagen: (a) cell culture medium should be supplemented with ascorbic acid (25--50 micrograms/ml) and fetal calf serum (20%); (b) the pH of the culture medium should be kept above 7.2 and preferably in the pH range 7.5--7.8; (c) the cell cultures should be used one to two days after reaching visual confluency. Under these conditions the synthesis and secretion of [3H]procollagen was found to be linear through a 24 h incubation period, and procollagen was demonstrated to be a major gene product of the fibroblasts. The relative synthesis of type I and type III procollagens was also monitored by isolating these genetically distinct procollagens by DEAE-cellulose chromatography or by measuring type I and III collagens by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis after limited pepsin proteolysis. No marked changes were observed in type I/III procollagen ratios in situations where the total formation of hydroxy[3H]proline was significantly affected. The average coefficient of variance for procollagen synthesis between replicate cultures was found to be relatively small (14%), and the optimization of the culture conditions for the control cells has, therefore, created a reliable and reproducible basis for employing human skin fibroblasts to study collagen metabolism in acquired and inherited diseases.
Collagen synthesis and turnover following particle phagocytosis in dermal fibroblasts.	Dermal fibroblast collagens were isolated after cold pepsin/acetic acid extraction and characterized by differentiated salt precipitation, agarose molecular sieve chromatography, CM-cellulose chromatography, and identification of cyanogen bromide cleavage peptides. Subsequent to particle phagocytosis, collagens recovered as secretory products from latex-treated cells were quantitatively less in total collagen and deficient in type III collagen. Although the total levels of hydroxyproline synthesized were similar to control cell populations, hydroxyproline recovered as non-dialyzable material was only 32% of the total hydroxyproline synthesize. Recovery of exogenous labeled collagen following dialysis, molecular sieve chromatography (Bio-Gel A-5m), and [14C]proline pulse-chase labeling of endogenous collagen, indicates that the alteration in types and quantities of recoverable collagen chains are primarily the result of rapid intracellular turnover.
Comparison of DNA renewal in germ-free and conventional mice using [125I]iododeoxyuridine and [3H]thymidine.	Germ-free (GF) and conventional (CV) C3H mice received a single injection of 1 muCi [3H]thymidine and 3 muCi [125I]iododeoxyuridine to provide simultaneous labeling of DNA with the two precursors. Thymus, spleen, mesenteric lymph nodes, bone marrow (femora), small intestine, colon and skin were examined for total organ activity and rate of DNA renewal 1-8 days after injection. Precursor incorporation, assayed on day 1, was lower in the thymus, mesenteric lymph nodes and femora (and, to a lesser extent, in the spleen and colon) of GF mice as compared to CV animals. The opposite was observed in the small intestine and skin, i.e. total organ activity was higher in GF animals. Differences in precursor incorporation were partly due to differences in organ weights between the two groups of mice. In comparison to CV animals, DNA renewal rates were diminished in the mesenteric lymph nodes, bone marrow, colon (following a 3-day plateau) and spleen of GF mice. Little, if any, difference was observed between the two groups with respect to the rate of DNA turnover in the thymus and skin. Radioactivity of the small intestine remained constant for 2 days. Thereafter intestinal activity in GF mice declined at an initial slow rate between days 2 and 5 followed by a rapid decrease between days 5 and 8. In CV mice the first phase of activity loss was short with the rapid decline in intestinal activity beginning on day 3. From the slopes of the regression lines, the percentage thymidine reutilization was estimated. Reutilization varied from 0 to 63% in the various organs examined, with the greatest difference between GF and CV mice occurring in the mesenteric lymph nodes.
Heavy incorporation of 3H-prostaglandin F2 alpha in the neoplastic cells as revealed by autoradiographic studies.	A marked uptake (9-fold) of the 3H-PGF2 alpha was found specifically over heterochromatin in the nuclei of neoplastic cells. Lower but significant uptakes of 3H-PGF2 alpha were also found in the nuclei of control epidermal cells, which indicate the presence of nuclear receptors in the epidermal neoplastic cells.
Studies on the effects of in vitro ageing on saturable and nonsaturable sugar uptake in cultured human skin fibroblasts.	The Vmax for saturable (i.e. 2-deoxy-D-glucose) sugar transport in cultured human fibroblasts was found to increase with in vitro ageing when the results were expressed per 10(6) cells. No age-related changes were observed in the Km for 2-deoxy-D-glucose transport or in nonsaturable (i.e. L-glucose) sugar uptake.
Estrogen receptors in the human prostate, seminal vesicle, epididymis, testis, and genital skin: a marker for estrogen-responsive tissues?	In an effort to identify those human male sex accessory tissues that may be under the physiological influence of estrogen, cytosolic and nuclear estrogen receptors were measured with two ligand systems that used either [3H]R2858 [moxesterol(11 beta-methoxy-17-ethynyl-1,3,5,(10)-estratriene-3,17 beta-diol)] or [3H]estradiol plus 1 microM dihydrotestosterone with diethylstilbestrol to correct for nonspecific binding. In seminal vesicles, high affinity binding was identified in cytosol (6 of 7 determinations) and nuclear extract (4 of 7 determinations); in the epididymis, high affinity binding was also present in the cytosol (10 of 12 determinations) and nuclear extract (10 of 11 determinations). In contrast, no high affinity binding was demonstrated in cytosol from the testis (0 of 5 determinations) or genital skin (0 of 7 determinations), and only low levels of nuclear receptor (80 fmol/g tissue) were present in the testis (3 of 5 determinations) and genital skin (1 of 7 determinations). In nonhyperplastic prostatic tissue, high affinity binding was present [in the cytosol of periurethral zone tissue (3 of 7 determinations) and nuclear extract (1 of 7 determinations), in cytosol of peripheral zone tissue (7 of 8 determinations) and nuclear extract (4 of 7 determinations), and in prostatic carcinoma cytosol (5 of 12 determinations) and nuclear extract (10 of 13 determinations)]. In contrast, no high affinity binding was present in either cytosol or nuclear extract from benign hyperplastic prostatic tissue. The finding of estrogen receptors in the human epididymis, seminal vesicle, and prostatic carcinoma suggests that estrogen, in addition to androgen, may act in the physiological regulation of these organs. However, the direct role of estrogen in the induction and maintenance of benign prostatic hyperplasia remains to be defined.
Collagen accumulation by dermal fibroblast cultures of patients with linear localized scleroderma.	Two patients with linear localized scleroderma are reported. Punch biopsies from involved and contralateral site-matched uninvolved dermis of each patient were explained for the purpose of studying connective tissue accumulation in fibroblast monolayer culture. Monolayer cultures from involved tissue accumulated more collagen and glycosaminoglycan than cultures from uninvolved tissue for both patients. Augmented accumulation of collagen persisted for at least 11 subpassages. Involved monolayers acquired a strikingly different macroscopic appearance in confluent cultures.
Histological and cytological alterations in the skin of biotin-deficient chicks.	A basal diet with practically no natural biotin was supplemented with 10, 19, 34, 62, 111 or 200 microgram of biotin per kg. Chicks receiving these graded levels of biotin were used for histological investigations of skin samples of the foot pad and the under and upper side of the middle toe. Where there was biotin deficiency, epidermal hyperplasia, papillary growth, acanthosis and hyperkeratosis were observed on the foot pad and the under side of the toe. In the stratum spinosum, cells showed big nuclei and nucleoi, and the glycogen-containing nuclear and perinuclear vacuoles had disappeared. The alterations in the skin of the upper side of the toe were similar but far less pronounced. Cell proliferation measured by the labelling index was significantly increased in all three skin samples.
Studies on the effect of (+)catechin on connective tissue in the guinea pig and in organ culture.	Decreased biosynthesis of (14C) hydroxyproline in skin collagen was observed after injection of the flavonoid (+)catechin into guinea pigs. No alteration in already synthesized collagens was noted, as measured by the content of hydroxyproline and hydroxylysine. No alteration in the content of skin acid glycosaminoglycans was observed. The variable binding of (+)catechin to different tissues was demonstrated. No special sensitivity to the drug of any collagen type was found.
A dispersed-whole cell method for the determination of androgen receptors in human skin fibroblasts.	A method is described for the determination of binding capacity (Ro) and dissociation constant (Kd) of androgen receptors in dispersed, whole, cultured human skin fibroblasts. The cells obtained from punch biopsies or operative specimens of skin, are grown to confluence in monolayers, harvested, washed, and dispersed in medium. Binding is assessed by incubating the cells with [3H]dihydrotestosterone (DHT) at 22 degrees C for one hour followed by washing, centrifugation and counting. Non-specific binding is determined by adding radioinert methyltrienolone (R1881). Scatchard plots are constructed using 6 concentration points; binding is expressed as sites/cell. The method is precise (Ro = 12,105 +/- 4305 (S.D.) sites/cell; Kd = 1.0 +/- 0.7 (S.D.) x 10(-9)M, n = 14 for one prepuce cell line) and independent of cell passage number. Binding is linear with respect to cell number and shows those characteristics commonly attributed to androgen receptors: high affinity, low binding capacity, saturable nuclear binding, androgen specificity, and an 8S peak in fibroblast cytosol using sucrose density gradients. Cell lines shown by other published methods to lack androgen receptors had no detectable DHT binding with this method. This assay technique has the advantages of simplicity, rapidity, and precision.
Glucocorticoid receptors of mouse epidermis and dermis.	The epidermis and dermis of the skin of newborn mice both contain glucocorticoid receptor molecules. These receptors resemble those of other tissues in their binding affinities, quantities, and steroid specificities. Having bound glucocorticoids, the complexes then can bind to nuclei. When chromatographed on gel filtration columns, they elute as large aggregates in low ionic strength buffers and as moieties with a Stokes' radius of 5.5 nm in high ionic strength buffers. Exposure to CaCl2 releases a still smaller binding component with a Stokes' radius of 2.8 nm. Molybdic acid stabilizes these receptors not only in cell-free preparations but also in organ cultures of whole skin. (Endocrinology 108: 703, 1981)
Stimulation of glycolipid synthesis and exchange by human serum high density lipoprotein-3 in human fibroblasts and leukocytes.	Upon exposure to either human skin fibroblasts or human circulating leukocytes, the composition of human serum high density lipoprotein-3 (HDL3) was modified by the apparent loss of apolipoprotein A-II and a 2- to 4-fold increase in glycosphingolipid content. Exposure of HDL3 to leukocytes produced an increase in the content of lactosylceramide, which is the major glycolipid in leukocytes, whereas exposure of HDL3 to human skin fibroblasts produced predominantly an increase in trihexosylceramide, which is the major glycolipid in fibroblasts. Other protein components of HDL3 (such as apolipoprotein A-I) were unaffected and there were no major changes in either neutral lipid or phospholipid composition. The increase in glycosphingolipid content of both cells and reisolated HDL3 particles was HDL3 concentration-dependent up to a concentration of 1 mg/ml and appeared to be the result of a stimulation of cellular glycolipid synthesis by HDL3 and subsequent transfer to HDL3 in the medium. A similar stimulation could not be produced by either low density lipoprotein or lipoprotein-deficient human serum. The coaddition of HDL3 and lipoprotein-deficient serum reduced both the loss of apolipoprotein A-II and the change in HDL3 glycolipid content, but not the increase in cellular glycolipid content, suggesting that modification of the apolipoprotein A-II peptide may enhance the ability of HDL3 to acquire new glycolipid from cells.
Skin potential level: age and epidermal hydration effects.	Age differences in skin potential level (SPL) of young adult and aged men were investigated using basal skin potential level (BSPL) procedures at three levels of epidermal hydration. A glycol medium was used at a site of least hydration. A distilled water and agar solution was the medium at two other more hydrated sites which also received either 0 min or 15 min pretreatment in distilled water. A 0.5% KCl electrolyte concentration was used at all sites. Significant effects for age and hydration were dependent on the point in the recording session comparisons were made. The major findings were: (1) the old men had significantly lower SPLs than did the young men at the start of recording with the glycol electrolyte medium; there were no significant age differences at the start of recording with the agar mediums, or at BSPL with any hydration condition. (2) Hydration significantly affected SPL magnitude at the start of recording, but not at BSPL. SPL recorded with the glycol medium at certain points in the recording was significantly related to outdoor activity among the aged men. This effect was independent of differences in cardiovascular status, and cardiovascular status was not significantly correlated with glycol SPL. It is concluded that there is a reduced sweat gland potential in old age which can only be observed when recording conditions produce high epidermal resistance. This reduced sweat gland potential is related to low levels of outdoor activity.
Excess plasma proteins as a cause of chronic inflammation and lymphoedema: biochemical estimations.	The subcutaneous tissue of rats was injected with plasma, PVP or saline. Precautions were taken to avoid immunological reactions and the release of mediators. The repeated injection of plasma proteins caused changes typical of chronic inflammation in the skin and to a much greater extent in the fascia. Coumarin significantly reduced the extent of this inflammatory reaction in the skin but not in the fascia. It increased the numbers of cells in the skin and may have stimulated them to lyse the excess protein. After 32 days, PVP injection caused some of the changes seen in chronic inflammation, but to a much lesser extent than those found with plasma. The only effect of coumarin was to reduce the water content of the skin (and hence the skin weight). It is concluded that the accumulation of excess proteins in the tissues can indeed cause chronic inflammation. In particular, chronic lymphoedema can be regarded as a form of chronic inflammation. It is also concluded that in the presence of excess protein, the benzopyrone, coumarin, is capable of stimulating cells, other than macrophages, in the skin.
Measurement of skin hydration in normal dogs and in dogs with atopy or a scaling dermatosis.	The role of the stratum corneum both as a barrier to water loss from the body and as a biological microenvironment is well recognised, although most discussion of these topics is expressed in qualitative terms. This paper describes the use of techniques for the measurement of some aspects of the skin microclimate, and their application to canine skin. The techniques used were the assessment of skin moisture, hygroscopicity and water-holding capacity by measurement of skin electrical capacitance. Meaningful deductions regarding the water dynamics of certain skin sites can be drawn, and it was shown that significant differences in hydration exist between different skin sites. The techniques were also used to show that scaly skin is 'drier' than normal skin, and that the water dynamics of the non-lesional skin of atopic dogs does not differ from that of normal dogs.
Enhanced expression of mRNA for insulin-like growth factor-1 in post-burn hypertrophic scar tissue and its fibrogenic role by dermal fibroblasts.	Hypertrophic scarring (HSc) which frequently develops in patients following severe thermal injury is characterized by accumulation of extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins including type I and type III collagen. In this study, we examined the presence and quantity of IGF-1 mRNA transcripts in post-burn HSc. The results of dot blot experiments showed a 77.5% (100 +/- 8.15 vs 177.5 +/- 19, p < 0.01) increase in expression of IGF-1 IIIRNA in HSc tissue relative to normal dermis obtained from the same patients. A Northern blot analysis confirmed the specificity of the IGF-1 cDNA. This cDNA visualized four different transcripts with apparent sizes of 7.0, 3.9, 1.8 and 1.0 kb, similar to those previously reported. The possible fibrogenic role of IGF-1 was examined by analyzing the effect of this growth factor on the expression of mRNA for the pro alpha 1(I) chain of type I procollagen and the pro alpha 1(III) chain of type III procollagen in dermal fibroblasts. IGF-1 increased the expression of these transcripts as early as 6 h and the effect was maximal at 24 h. Quantitative analysis by densitometry showed a 149 and 166% increase in pro alpha 1(I) and pro alpha 1(III) mRNA after 24 h of IGF-1 treatment, respectively. This effect seems to be specific as the abundance of mRNA for the pro alpha 2(I) chain of type I procollagen or TIMP-II was unchanged.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Central and peripheral expression of galanin in response to inflammation.	Using in situ hybridization, immunohistochemistry and receptor binding methodology, the galanin messenger RNA levels, galanin binding and galanin-like immunoreactivity were examined in rats injected with carrageenan into the left hindpaw. Three days after injection, a distinct increase (63%) in galanin messenger RNA-positive neurons was observed in the medial laminae I and II of the ipsilateral dorsal horn (lumbar 4 and 5) as compared to the contralateral side. However, no alteration was found in galanin binding and galanin-like immunoreactivity in the dorsal horn. In dorsal root ganglia (lumbar 5), inflammation induced a significant decrease in galanin messenger RNA (39%) and galanin peptide (47%) on the ipsilateral side. Galanin binding was not detected in dorsal root ganglia, neither on the inflammatory nor on the control side. Increased levels of galanin-like immunoreactivity and galanin messenger RNA were seen in cells in the inflamed dermis and epidermis, especially in stratum granulosum. Most of the galanin-immunoreactive cells contained ED1-like immunoreactivity, a marker for macrophages. A strong galanin binding was seen in the inflamed dermis. Such binding sites may be targets for galanin released from local cells in inflamed dermis. Taken together, our results suggest that both neuronal and non-neuronal galanin or a galanin-like peptide is involved in the response to inflammation.
The electrophoretic mobility of tripeptides as a function of pH and ionic strength: comparison with iontophoretic flux data.	Capillary electrophoresis (CE) is an extremely efficient separations tool which can also be used to determine fundamental molecular parameters, e.g., the electrophoretic mobility of a molecule. We have studied the changes in the CE estimated electrophoretic mobility of thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) as a function of pH and ionic strength. Further, we have used CE to estimate the mobilities of two synthetic analogs of TRH to examine the behavior of positive (basic) and negative (acidic) peptides under the conditions of this work. These data were then compared with literature values of iontophoretic flux of these molecules under similar formulation conditions. Our results suggest that CE could potentially assist formulation optimization for the iontophoretic delivery of peptides.
Truncated type II receptor for BMP-4 induces secondary axial structures in Xenopus embryos.	BRK-3 is a vertebrate type II receptor for BMP-4 distantly related to invertebrate type II receptors for BMP-2/BMP-4/dpp, such as daf-4 and punt. BRK-3 has a long carboxy-terminal sequence following intracellular kinase domain and is capable of forming a high-affinity complex with a type I receptor, BRK-2. To examine the role of BRK-2 + BRK-3 receptor complex in BMP signaling during early embryogenesis, the dominant-negative form of BRK-3 was ectopically expressed in the Xenopus embryos. A secondary body axis expressing the Sonic hedgehog and N-CAM genes is induced by injecting mRNA encoding truncated form of BRK-3 into ventral marginal region, implicating the BMP signaling in axial mesoderm induction. Formation of the secondary axis depends on whether the deletion extends into the kinase domain, not into the carboxy-terminal tail, suggesting that the kinase domain, but not the tail region, is essential for BMP signaling.
The choice between alternative IIIb and IIIc exons of the FGFR-3 gene is not strictly tissue-specific.	An essential feature of fibroblast growth factor receptors (FGFR) is the existence of multiple possibilities for alternative splicing. One of these concerns sequences of the mRNA coding for the C-terminal half of Ig domain 3 which corresponds to a part of the ligand-binding site. Two alternative exons, IIIb and IIIc, encode the C-terminal half of Ig domain 3. We show here that the alternative splicing choice between IIIb and IIIc exons of the FGFR-3 is not strictly tissue-specific: epithelial cells show exclusively IIIb transcripts while fibroblastic cells show a mixture of IIIb and IIIc transcripts. This is in contrast with the strictly exclusive alternative choice between IIIb or IIIc exons of the FGFR-2 gene: epithelial cells make only the IIIb choice while fibroblastic cells make only the IIIc choice.
Altered expression of nerve growth factor in the skin of transgenic mice leads to changes in response to mechanical stimuli.	It has recently become clear that the neurotrophic factor, nerve growth factor, interacts specifically with nociceptive sensory neurons during development and maturity. Indeed, it may serve as a critical link between inflammation and the hyperalgesia that ensues in adult animals. Nerve growth factor is normally expressed in limiting amounts in target tissues of sensory and postganglionic sympathetic neurons. In the present study we have altered the basal level of nerve growth factor expression in the skin by producing transgenic mice that express a fusion gene construct containing either a sense or antisense nerve growth factor complementary DNA linked to the K14 keratin promoter. The K14-nerve growth factor transgene (sense or antisense) is abundantly expressed in skin from approximately embryonic day 15 and is then constitutively expressed throughout the life of the animal. In light of the fact that systemic administration of nerve growth factor to neonatal or adult rats leads to hyperalgesia, we have asked whether mice expressing the sense K14-nerve growth factor transgene exhibit similar sensory abnormalities and whether mice expressing the antisense nerve growth factor complementary DNA were hypoalgesic. Here we show that mice over-expressing nerve growth factor in skin display a profound hyperalgesia to noxious mechanical stimulation. Additionally, K14-nerve growth factor antisense mice displayed a profound hypoalgesia to the same stimuli.
Digitalis-like compounds in the toad Bufo viridis: interactions with plasma proteins.	Digitalis-like compounds (DLC), normal constituents of animal tissues, are possible regulators of the Na+,K(+)-ATPase implicated in water and salt homeostasis. DLC are present in toad (Bufo viridis) tissues. Although DLC highest levels were found in toad skin, it was also detected in plasma and many internal organs. The abundant distribution and the different levels of DLC in various tissues exclude the possibility that toxicity is the only function of these compounds in the toad. The concentration of DLC in toad plasma is 30 microM, out of which 25-30% is bound to plasma proteins. Fractionation of toad plasma proteins on a G-100 Sephadex column followed by the extraction of DLC from the plasma proteins revealed that DLC are bound primarily to proteins of 48,000-53,000 Da. These results establish the existence of bufodienolide-binding protein(s) in animal plasma.
Relative contribution of sympathetic and sensory nerves to thermal nociception and tissue trophism in rats.	Neonatal injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (420 mg/kg s.c.) lowered thermal nociceptive threshold (hot plate and tail immersion tests) and increased levels of substance P-like immunoreactivity in the skin (paws, tail, area of vibrissae) of Wistar rats. Chemical ablation of primary afferents, induced in either neonatal or adult rats by systemic administration of capsaicin, increased thermal nociceptive threshold (hot plate), irrespective of 6-hydroxydopamine pretreatment, and reduced substance P-like immunoreactivity in the hind-paw skin of either control or sympathectomized rats. Capsaicin pretreatment of neonatal but not adult rats produced antinociceptive effect in the tail-immersion test and completely reversed the hyperalgesic effect of sympathectomy, without affecting levels of substance P-like immunoreactivity in the tail skin. These findings indicate that sympathetic nerves and different subsets of capsaicin-sensitive primary afferents are involved in the processing of thermal nociceptive input. Corneal and cutaneous lesions were induced by neonatal sensory denervation with capsaicin. Sympathectomy afforded protection against the development of corneal pathology, while it did not affect the occurrence of cutaneous lesions. It appears that a balance in the neuronal activity between sympathetic neurons and trigeminal sensory neurons is critical for maintaining the normal trophism of the cornea, and that sensory neuropeptides play a key role in the maintenance of normal trophism of the skin.
Regulation of immunoreactive insulin-like growth factor binding protein-6 in normal and transformed human fibroblasts.	Insulin-like growth factor-binding proteins (IGFBPs) have been shown to both potentiate and inhibit IGF bioactivity in vitro; thus, changes to the type or amount of IGFBPs present in the cellular environment will ultimately affect insulin-like growth factor action. In this study, we have investigated the production of immunoreactive IGFBP-6 by normal human fibroblasts (NHF) and an SV-40-transformed human fibroblast line (AG2804). When analyzed by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immunoblotting, IGFBP-6 appeared as a doublet of 32-34-kDa in conditioned medium of both cell lines, with the lower molecular mass band predominating in the NHF cell line. Measured by a specific radioimmunoassay, serum-free NHF, and AG2804 cultures secreted IGFBP-6 at 1.44 +/- 0.09 and 1.23 +/- 0.08 ng/10(4) cells (mean +/- S.E.), respectively. Despite a relatively weak IGFBP-6 signal by ligand blot compared with IGFBP-3, the two proteins were secreted in similar molar concentrations by NHF. Retinoic acid increased IGFBP-6 by 3-fold in NHF and AG2804-conditioned media, maximal at approximately 100 nM retinoic acid. In contrast, IGFBP-6 production was inhibited by transforming growth factor-beta 1 and agents that increase intracellular cAMP concentrations, including dibutyryl cAMP, forskolin, isobutylmethylxanthine, and cholera toxin. This study indicates that IGFBP-6 has a pattern of regulation unique among the IGFBPs, supporting the concept of specific roles for each binding protein in regulating cell growth and metabolism.
Fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) 3. Alternative splicing in immunoglobulin-like domain III creates a receptor highly specific for acidic FGF/FGF-1.	Fibroblast growth factors (FGF) regulate the growth and differentiation of cells through complex combinatorial signaling pathways. There are nine ligands that interact with a family of four tyrosine kinase FGF receptors (FGFR). Diversity in FGF signaling is determined in part by the affinity of specific ligand-receptor pairs. Alternative splicing in the FGFR ligand binding domain generates additional receptor isoforms with novel ligand affinities. For example, splicing events in the ligand binding domain of FGFR2 dramatically increases its affinity for keratinocyte growth factor (KGF/FGF-7). We have identified an alternatively spliced form of the FGFR3 mRNA, corresponding to known splice variants of FGFRs 1 and 2. We demonstrate both by binding studies on genetically engineered soluble receptors and by the mitogenic response of growth factor-dependent cell lines that this splice variant of FGFR3 (FGFR3 IIIb), by binding only acidic FGF (aFGF/FGF-1), has the most restricted ligand binding properties of any FGFR thus far described. Furthermore, by constructing a chimeric receptor that contains the homologous exon from FGFR2, we demonstrate that this single domain from FGFR2 is sufficient to confer upon FGFR3 the ability to bind KGF/FGF-7. The uniquely limited repertoire of ligands that interact with this receptor suggests that a novel ligand for FGFR3 IIIb exists.
Elevated expression of type VII collagen in the skin of patients with systemic sclerosis. Regulation by transforming growth factor-beta.	A hallmark of systemic sclerosis (SSc) is the development of tissue fibrosis. Excessive production of several connective tissue components normally present in the dermis, including type I, III, V, and VI collagens as well as fibronectin and proteoglycans, is a consistent finding in the skin of SSc patients. Type VII collagen is a major constituent of anchoring fibrils, present in the skin at the dermal-epidermal basement membrane zone. TGF-beta has been shown to upregulate the expression of the type VII collagen gene. In this study, we assessed the expression of type VII collagen and TGF-beta in the skin of patients with SSc. Indirect immunofluorescence showed an abundance of type VII collagen in the patients' skin, including the dermis. Ultrastructural analysis of SSc skin revealed an abundance of fibrillar material, possibly representing type VII collagen. The increased expression of type VII collagen epitopes was accompanied by the elevated expression of immunodetectable TGF-beta 1 and TGF-beta 2. Dermal fibroblasts cultured from the affected individuals showed a statistically significant (P < 0.02) increase in the expression of type VII collagen at the mRNA level, as detected by reverse transcription-PCR with a mutated cDNA as an internal standard, and increased deposition of the protein as assessed by indirect immunofluorescence. Thus, type VII collagen is abundantly present in SSc patients' dermis, a location not characteristic of its normal distribution, and its aberrant expression may relate to the presence of TGF-beta in the same topographic distribution. The presence of type VII collagen in the dermis may contribute to the tightly bound and indurated appearance of the affected skin in SSc patients.
Phosphorylation of vimentin is an intermediate step in protein kinase C-mediated glycoconjugate secretion.	We have previously shown that fibroblasts from patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) display a higher response to 4 beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) than control fibroblasts for stimulation of both protein kinase C (PKC) cytosol-to-membrane translocation and glycoconjugate secretion. In this study we took advantage of these cells with differential responsiveness to PMA to investigate the endogenous substrate(s) involved in PKC stimulation of glycoconjugate secretion after verification of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator gene expression in control and CF fibroblasts. We show that a 57-kDa protein that was associated with cytoskeleton and was identified as vimentin by immunoblotting emerged as a good candidate for mediating PKC stimulation of glycoconjugate secretion. 1) Its phosphorylation by PMA was abolished by PKC inhibition or depletion. 2) In both control and CF fibroblasts, the PMA-induced increase in its phosphorylation preceded the phorbol ester stimulation of glycoconjugate secretion. 3) For both processes, the concentration-response curves were superimposable, with higher maximal levels for CF fibroblasts relative to controls. 4) PMA-stimulated 57-kDa protein phosphorylation, like PMA-stimulated glycoconjugate secretion, was significantly increased by Ca2+. 5) Increased PMA phosphorylation of the 57-kDa protein as a result of okadaic acid inhibition of intracellular phosphatases was reflected in increased PMA stimulation of glycoconjugate secretion. In conclusion, 1) PMA phosphorylation of a cytoskeletal 57-kDa protein, identified as vimentin, appears to be an intermediate step in PKC stimulation of constitutive glycoconjugate secretion in human skin fibroblasts; and 2) this process is impaired in CF disease.
Gentamycin serum levels in a patient with severe skin damage.	Pseudomonas aeruginosa grew in blood cultures taken from a 30-year-old woman with a 45% burn of second and third degree. Because of wound infection, skin grafting was unsuccessful and the wounds were left uncovered and treated topically with Eusol and saline solution. During this period 7 mg/kg gentamycin was administered to the patient daily; the blood level of the antibiotic was 3 microgram/ml, rather than the expected 8--12 microgram/ml in a patient without burns. On the eighth day, 40% of the administered dose was recoverable in the urine. With partial covering of the wounds, a dose of 5 mg/kg gentamycin daily gave blood levels of 6.5 microgram/ml. When most of the burn wounds were covered, a dose of 5 mg/kg gentamycin daily gave a blood level of 12 microgram/ml. Kidney function remained normal throughout the whole period. The possibility that gentamycin was eliminated through the burn wounds is suggested.
Short-term variations in urinary estriol and renal function. Possible effects of extraneous conditions.	Variation in urinary excretion of estriol was found to be related to physical activity and climate conditions. Estriol content of sweat was studied but was found not to be of an order to explain the variation observed. Estriol clearance rate was significantly reduced even by moderate physical activity. Creatinine clearance was not affected to the same extent. Different explanations to the findings are discussed. The need for strictly standardized conditions during urine sampling for estriol assays in risk pregnancies is stressed.
A missense mutation in the rod domain of keratin 14 associated with recessive epidermolysis bullosa simplex.	Epidermolysis bullosa simplex (EBS) is a group of epidermal blistering diseases almost invariably transmitted as a dominant trait, which has recently been shown to arise from mutations in keratins 14 and 5 (K14 and K5). We describe a family with recessive EBS in which the disease is tightly linked to the substitution of the highly conserved glutamic acid-144 to alanine in the first helical segment of the rod domain of keratin 14. In contrast, linkage with keratin 5 was excluded. The loss of an ionic interaction with keratin 5 is likely to affect K14-K5 heterodimer formation. Our data suggest that this mutation underlies EBS in our family, and that mutations in keratin genes may impair the mechanical integrity of basal keratinocytes in a recessive as well as dominant fashion.
Immunocytochemical detection of the carbohydrate antigen, Sialyl Lewis(x), in normal human skin and during irritant contact dermatitis.	Sialys Lewis(x) (SLex) is a ligand for the E-selectin and the interaction of E-selectin on the endothelium and SLex on T cells may be important for T-cell migration into the skin. We investigated the expression of SLex on Langerhans cells (LC) in normal skin and on LC repopulating epidermis deprived of LC due to a preceding irritant contact dermatitis. SLex was visualized by fluorescence and light microscopic immunocytochemistry using the monoclonal antibody, CSLEX-1. The results showed that about 40% of LC in normal epidermis express SLex. In the repopulation phase, most of the epidermal cells were CD1a+/SLex. We suggest that SLex is present on epidermal LC that have recently immigrated from the dermis.
Expression of the extracellular matrix proteoglycan, versican, in human skin]	Extracellular matrix chondroitin/dermatan sulfate proteoglycans are present in a wide variety of tissues including cartilage, placenta, aorta, tendon, brain and skin. They possibly participate in cellular processes such as cell adhesion, migration and proliferation. Recently, we have determined the entire primary structure of the large fibroblast proteoglycan, versican, on the basis of its cDNA sequence. Versican belongs to the family of large aggregating proteoglycans. Other members of the family, which have been characterized in terms of their primary structure, are aggrecan in cartilage and neurocan isolated from brain tissues. Due to the extensive sequence similarities between these three proteoglycans in the N- and C-terminal domains and due to the high degree of carbohydrate substitution, the generation of antibodies monospecific for versican has been difficult. To avoid cross-reactivity with aggrecan and neurocan, we therefore prepared unique portions of versican in a bacterial expression system and used them to immunize rabbits (Zimmermann et al., 1994). The affinity-purified anti-fusion protein antibodies specifically reacted with intact versican from an osteosarcoma cell line. First immunohistochemical experiments on cryo-sections of human skin revealed anti-versican staining in the stratum basale of the epidermis, as well as in the papillary and reticular layers of the dermis. By indirect immunofluorescence, Northern and Western blotting we could demonstrate that both, dermal fibroblasts and keratinocytes express versican in primary cultures. A striking inverse correlation between versican expression and cell density was observed. Analogous to the in vivo situation, keratinocytes induced to terminally differentiate ceased to express versican.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The nature of the epithelium in acquired cholesteatoma: Part 3--Cytokeratin patterns in aural epithelial and cholesteatoma cells grown in cell culture.	The nature and origin of the epithelial layers in acquired cholesteatoma is still unclear. Although previous morphological studies comparing external meatal and cholesteatoma epithelium have shown no significant difference, bone resorption is generally much more severe with cholesteatoma than with chronic otitis media without cholesteatoma. It is possible that cholesteatoma epithelium has undergone transformation leading to its enhanced bone destroying role. In this study the cytokeratin patterns of aural and cholesteatoma epithelia grown in cell culture were compared using monoclonal antibodies. No significant difference in staining patterns were found suggesting that there has been no change in cell phenotype which maintains that of external auditory meatus epithelium. This study therefore supports the immigration theory of cholesteatoma genesis.
Keratinocyte growth factor receptor ligands induce transforming growth factor alpha expression and activate the epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathway in cultured epidermal keratinocytes.	Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) ligands are fundamental regulators of epithelial growth, differentiation, and neoplastic transformation. In addition to being potent mitogens for murine epidermal keratinocytes in vitro, transforming growth factor alpha (TGF alpha) and EGF elicit distinctive changes in keratin expression: Ca(2+)-mediated induction of the differentiation-specific keratins K1 and K10 is blocked, while simple epithelial keratins K8 and K18 are expressed aberrantly (C. Cheng et al., Cell Growth, & Differ., 4: 317-327, 1993). We have evaluated several additional growth factors to determine the specificity of this response for EGFR ligands. TGF alpha, keratinocyte growth factor (KGF), and acidic fibroblast growth factor (aFGF), but not basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) or insulin-like growth factor type I, block Ca(2+)-mediated expression of K1 while inducing K8. Since KGF and aFGF (but not bFGF) are ligands for the KGF receptor (KGFR), we explored the possibility that the TGF alpha/EGFR pathway is an intermediary in signaling through the KGFR. TGF alpha mRNA was increased in cells treated with KGF, aFGF, or TGF alpha but not bFGF or insulin-like growth factor type I. Similar changes were detected at the protein level; TGF alpha in conditioned medium (CM) from control, KGF-, TGF alpha-, and aFGF-treated cultures was 54 (+/- 8, SEM), 365 (+/- 50), 146 (+/- 20), and 120 (+/- 50) pg/ml, respectively. KGF and TGF alpha also increased expression of cell-associated TGF alpha measured in keratinocyte lysates. KGF increased TGF alpha secretion and mRNA levels in human as well as mouse keratinocytes. CM from KGF-treated cultures stimulated cell growth when added to cultures of normal keratinocytes. Preincubation with neutralizing antibodies to both TGF alpha and KGF, but not KGF antibody alone, blocked cell growth in cultures treated with KGF CM, suggesting that the predominant keratinocyte mitogen in KGF CM is TGF alpha. In support of this hypothesis, treatment of keratinocytes for 5 min with either KGF CM or purified TGF alpha resulted in EGFR autophosphorylation. Furthermore, after approximately 24 h, KGF as well as TGF alpha induced EGFR down-regulation based on Western blot analysis and 125I-EGF binding. Induction of TGF alpha in KGF-treated keratinocytes, coupled to activation and down-modulation of the EGFR, suggests that TGF alpha may be a proximal effector of KGF action for at least certain aspects of epidermal growth and differentiation.
Endothelial cell adhesion molecules in psoriasis.	Skin biopsies from patients with psoriasis and normal controls were examined for the expression of cell adhesion molecules including intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule-1 (ELAM-1), HECA-452 and 4D10, using an immunoperoxidase techique. This study demonstrates that psoriatic skin exhibits a wide variety of markers of endothelial cell activation which are either induced or increased in expression (ICAM-1, ELAM-1 & 4D10). Moreover, ICAM-1 & HECA-452 are also expressed on leukocytes. These antigens may facilitate the adhesion of inflammatory cells to endothelium and antigen-presenting cells in psoriatic skin. Thus, they may play a role in faciliating the infiltration of leukocytes into psoriatic skin.
Low-level X-ray exposures on rat skin. Hyperkeratinization and concomitant changes in biometal concentration.	Integumentary structures naturally are more exposed to solar radiation than other body tissues, so there is a big question regarding the biological threshold of skin in respect to low-dose ionizing radiation. In this study, adult male albino rats were exposed chronically to low-dose (0.015 cGy/sec) X-rays for 9 and 18 mo, with total X-ray dose of 2.025 and 4.050 cGy, respectively. In both the dose groups, hyperkeratinization was noted in skin by transmission electron microscopic (TEM) study. Atomic absorption spectrometric (AAS) study revealed decreased zinc concentration (p < 0.01), increased iron concentration (p < 0.001), and status quo cadmium concentration. Moreover, the ratio between zinc and iron became highly depleted in both the irradiated groups. Hence it may be stated that chronic low-level X-rays induce redistribution of biometals in the skin. Nevertheless, specific concentrations of biometals indicate the risk-prone status of irradiated skin.
Inhibition of skin carcinogenesis in vivo by caffeine and other agents.	The induction of skin cancer in mice of the Swiss (Carshalton) strain, by repeated irradiation with UV-light, was strikingly reduced by the local application of caffeine prior to each exposure. Theophylline displayed the same activity. These two substances have been selected as probable inhibitors of error-prone, postreplicative DNA repair. Conversely, reductone and chloroquine, which are considered as inhibitors of the error-free, prereplicative excision repair, did not modify the incidence of the tumors. Special emphasis has been given to the histologic behavior of radiolabeled caffeine in the normal and UV-irradiated epidermis of the mouse in vivo and to the ability of mouse epidermal cells in vitro to repair DNA after UV irradiation.
The biologic effectiveness of ultraviolet light.	The biologic effects of visible and UV light result from photochemical changes in cell components. The amount of photochemical change induced in a small non-self-shadowing structure is proportional to the number of photons traversing it per unit area normal to the direction of propagation, summed over all component beam directions. Within an optically complex, absorbing, and scattering structure, this quantity is difficult to determine, but for skin it is approximately proportional to the total number of photons per unit area entering its outer surface. The magnitude of some photobiologic effects depends on the total amount of photochemical change induced, whereas others depend on the rate of photoproduct formation or on a more complex relation. The nature of the dependence must be determined before light measurements can be related to the magnitude. The effect of a polychromatic illumination depends on its wavelength distribution, weighted by the effectiveness of each wavelength (the action spectrum) under the conditions employed. Until the latter is known, no dosimetric characterization of the light is possible. The wavelength distribution can be determined by spectroradiometric measurement, with the weighting performed numerically, or (more conveniently, though less accurately) by the use of an analog reaction with an action spectrum like that of the photobiologic effect.
Contact sensitivity to trivalent chromium compounds.	The investigations confirmed the known fact that for skin tests larger amounts of trivalent chromium compounds are necessary than those of potassium dichromate. It was also observed that some patients react to relatively higher Cr VI and lower Cr III concentrations and others vice versa. Chromium nitrate and chloride release and that of potassium dichromate was determined and converted to the chromium content in the concentrations used for skin tests. It was found that Cr III compounds cannot be used for skin tests in a 0,5% concentration if only because they are released in undeterminable amounts. Release of Cr III and potassium dichromate from bases containing the same amount of substance when converted to chromium demonstrated that the different release of Cr III is not an additional cause of the fact that much higher concentrations of Cr III compounds have to be used for patch tests than those of Cr VI compounds.
Prepubertal diagnosis of steroid 5 alpha-reductase deficiency.	The diagnosis of 5 alpha-reductase deficiency was proven in two prepubertal patients with male pseudohermaphroditism (MPH). Both had a 46-XY karyotype and were reared as females; one child had been castrated in infancy. Clitoromegaly, urogenital sinus, and short vaginal pouch were present in both; inguinal gonads were palpable in one. The diagnosis was made biochemically by observing characteristic changes in five parameters: 1) abnormally high testosterone to dihydrotestosterone (T:DHT) ratio after hCG stimulation (35 and 53 vs. normal, 11 +/- 3), 2) abnormally high 5 beta-T metabolites in urine (8.1 and 6.0 vs. normal, less than 1),3) deficient conversion of T to DHT during [3H] T infusion (0.3 and 0.4% vs. normal, 5.3 +/- 3), 4) deficient conversion of [14 C] T to 5 alpha-reduced metabolites by nongenital skin fibroblasts (2.2 and 1.9 pmol/microgram DNA/nmol substrate vs. 68.4+/- 7.8 Pmol/microgram DNA/nmol substrate in normal controls), and 5) deficient conversion of [14C]T to DHT in genital skin slices. The fact that this syndrome represents a defect in T metabolism rather in in T binding is demonstrated by the observation that binding of [3H]DHT to cytosol of skin fibroblasts was normal (4.2 dpm/micrograms DNA vs. normal male values of 3.7 +/- 0.64). Thus, the present report suggests that 5 alpha-reductase deficiency can be diagnosed during childhood and even after castration by metabolic studies of nongenital skin fibroblasts and determination of the conversion ratio of [3H]T to [3H]DHT in plasma.
Stereoselective hydrolysis and penetration of propranolol prodrugs: in vitro evaluation using hairless mouse skin.	Stereoselective hydrolysis of two ester prodrugs of propranolol, isovaleryl propranolol (IV-PL) and cyclopropanoyl propranolol (CP-PL), was studied in Tris-HCl buffer (pH 7.4) containing 0.15 M KCl, skin and liver homogenates, 5% plasma in Tris-HCl buffer, skin cytosol and microsomes, and liver cytosol and microsomes. The hydrolysis rate constants of (R)-isomers of the prodrugs were 1.1-30.3 times greater than those of the respective (S)-isomers in tissue preparations. Skin showed considerable metabolic activity and very high stereoselectivity (R/S ratio: 7.3-30.3). The hydrolyzing capacities of buffer and different tissue preparations per milligram of protein content were in the following increasing order: buffer < skin homogenate < plasma < liver homogenate. The studies with microsomes and cytosol indicated that the esterases, which are responsible for the hydrolysis of prodrugs, were mainly present in the cytosolic and microsomal fractions of skin and liver, respectively. There was a good correlation between the octanol-buffer partition coefficients of propranolol and its prodrugs and the skin partition coefficient. In vitro stereoselective penetration of propranolol and the prodrugs through full-thickness hairless mouse skin was evaluated with flow-through diffusion cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Presence of two typical DNA-binding nonhistone proteins in psoriatic scales contrary to normal human dermis, epidermis and horny layer.	The composition of DNA-binding proteins (DBP) was shown to be tissue-specific and to vary at different stages of gene expression. As the accelerated epidermopoesis in psoriasis indicates changed gene activities, DBP of psoriatic scales were compared with those of normal human epidermis, dermis and horny layer. Each skin fraction is characterized by its own DBP pattern, indicating different cell species. 1. The DBP of normal human epidermis shows only a small accordance with the DBP of human dermis and implies their difference in origin, function and cell types. 2. Psoriatic scale DBP and epidermal DPB contain more corresponding proteins which can be deduced from the scale's origin from epidermis. However, the composition of all proteins differs to a great extent. This either occured during parakeratotic keratinization or reflects differences of normal to psoriatic epidermis. Imposing for psoriatic scale DBP are two protein bands with molecular weights of 84,000 and 90,000 daltons. Evidently both are not present in the DBP of other skin layers. 3. The horny layer contains a very small amount of DBP which might represent DNases to a major part. The small DBP content in horny layer confirms the previous supposition of psoriatic scales, to be mostly derived from the preserved nuclei of the parakerototic scale layer.
Acidic glycosaminoglycans in skin and urine of a patient with wide-spreaded lichen sclerosus et atrophicus.	Changes of dermal and urinary acidic glycosaminoglycans in Lichen Sclerosus et Atrophicus (LSA) were investigated with the following results: 1. Hyaluronic acid (HA) was excreted in urine of a patient with LSA. 2. HA and low sulfate chondroitin were eluted with 0.5 M NaCl by Bio Rad AG 1- x 2 (Cl- form) column chromatography. 3. Involved dermal tissue contained only about 50% of HA in the skin of a healthy adult.
Plasma membrane caveolae mediate the efflux of cellular free cholesterol.	Caveolae are clathrin-free cell-surface organelles implicated in transmembrane transport. A fibroblast caveolar membrane fraction was isolated by sucrose density gradient ultracentrifugation and its identity confirmed by protein markers (caveolin, annexin II). When 3H-labeled free cholesterol was selectively transferred to the cells from labeled low density lipoprotein to increase cell free cholesterol approximately 15%, there was a 6-fold increase in label in the caveolar fraction above baseline levels. Subsequent incubation of these cells with unlabeled native plasma or plasma high density lipoprotein selectively unloaded caveolar free cholesterol into the medium. Okadaic acid, which decreased caveolar activity as measured by cholera toxin binding and uptake, decreased cholesterol efflux in parallel. Cholesterol newly synthesized from [3H]mevalonate was also preferentially incorporated into the caveolar fraction and selectively released by plasma into the medium. Together these data indicate that caveolae represent a major site of efflux of both newly synthesized and low density lipoprotein-derived free cholesterol in these cells.
Caloric restriction decreases age-dependent accumulation of the glycoxidation products, N epsilon-(carboxymethyl)lysine and pentosidine, in rat skin collagen.	Nonenzymatic glycation of body proteins and subsequent advanced glycation reactions have been implicated in the aging process, while caloric restriction (CR) in rodents results in an increase in both mean and maximum life span. We have evaluated the effect of chronic (25 months) CR on glycation of blood proteins and accumulation of advanced glycation and oxidation (glycoxidation) products, N epsilon-(carboxymethyl)lysine (CML), and pentosidine, in skin collagen. Brown-Norway rats, fed ad libitum (AL) from birth, were divided into two equal groups at 4 months of age and placed on AL or CR diets (CR = 60% of AL diet). Cohorts of animals were sacrificed at 7, 13, and 25 months after the initiation of CR. At necropsy glycated hemoglobin was measured by affinity HPLC and glycated plasma protein by the fructosamine assay; extracts of skin collagen were analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry for CML and by reversed-phase HPLC for pentosidine. Glycation of hemoglobin, plasma proteins, and skin collagen was decreased significantly (18-33%) by CR. Concentrations of CML and pentosidine increased significantly with age in skin collagen in both AL and CR animals; however, CR significantly reduced levels of CML (25%), pentosidine (50%), and fluorescence (15%) in collagen in the oldest rats. We conclude that CR reduces the extent of glycation of blood and tissue proteins and the age-related accumulation of glycoxidation products in skin collagen.
Measurement of glucose in diabetic subjects using noninvasive transdermal extraction.	Results from the Diabetes Care and Complications Trial show that tight blood glucose control significantly reduces the long-term complications of diabetes mellitus. In that study, frequent self-testing of glucose and insulin administration resulted in a significant reduction in long-term complications. This protocol, however, also resulted in a threefold increase in the frequency of hypoglycaemic incidents. Currently, self-testing requires a drop of blood for each measurement. The pain and inconvenience of self-testing, along with the fear and danger of hypoglycaemia has led to poor patient acceptance of a tight control regimen, despite the clear long-term advantages. A continuously worn, noninvasive method to periodically measure glucose would provide a convenient and comfortable means of frequent self-testing. A continuously worn device could also alert the user of low glucose levels, thereby reducing the incidence of hypoglycaemia. Guy et al. demonstrated a noninvasive method to transport glucose through the skin using low-level electrical current. To provide a quantitative measurement, the flux of glucose extracted across the skin must correlate with serum glucose in a predictive manner. The results presented here show a quantitative relationship between serum and transdermally extracted glucose in diabetics.
Adhesion molecules in cutaneous inflammation.	As in other organs, leukocyte adhesion molecules and their ligands play a major role in cutaneous inflammatory events both by directing leukocyte trafficking and by their effects on antigen presentation. Skin biopsies of inflamed skin from patients with diseases such as as psoriasis or atopic dermatitis reveal up-regulation of endothelial cell expression of P- and E-selectin, vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 and intercellular adhesion molecule 1. Studies of evolving lesions following UVB irradiation, Mantoux reaction or application of contact allergen, demonstrate that expression of these adhesion molecules parallels leukocyte infiltration into skin. When cutaneous inflammation is widespread (e.g. in erythroderma), soluble forms of these molecules are detectable in serum. In vitro studies predict that peptide mediators are important regulatory factors for endothelial adhesion molecules. Intradermal injection of the cytokines interleukin 1, tumour necrosis factor alpha and interferon gamma into normal human skin leads to induction of endothelial adhesion molecules with concomitant infiltration of leukocytes. In addition, neuropeptides rapidly induce P-selectin translocation to the cell membrane and expression of E-selectin. Adhesion molecules also play a crucial role as accessory molecules in the presentation of antigen to T lymphocytes by Langerhans' cells. Expression of selectin ligands by Langerhans' cells is up-regulated by various inflammatory stimuli, suggesting that adhesion molecules may be important in Langerhans' cell migration. The skin, because of its accessibility, is an ideal organ in which to study expression of adhesion molecules and their relationship to inflammatory events. Inflammatory skin diseases are common and inhibition of lymphocyte accumulation in skin is likely to prove of great therapeutic benefit.
Positive regulation of human alpha 1 (I) collagen promoter activity by transcription factor Sp1.	Analysis of the regulatory promoter region of the human alpha 1 (I) collagen-encoding gene (COL1A1) gene indicated the presence of G+C-rich sequence elements that are potential binding sites for the transcription factor Sp1. As a step toward understanding transcriptional regulation of the human COL1A1, we examined Sp1 binding in the promoter region using DNase I footprinting, and analyzed the effect of Sp1 expression on COL1A1 promoter activity in transiently transfected Drosophila melanogaster cells in vivo. The results indicated that recombinant human Sp1 interacted specifically with two G+C-rich sequences within the COL1A1 promoter. Binding of factors in nuclear extracts prepared from human dermal fibroblasts to a 22-nucleotide deoxyribonucleotide (oligo) spanning the 5' G+C-rich sequence required Zn2+, and was abolished by excess Sp1 consensus binding site oligos, or by anti-Sp1 antibodies. Studies in which a series of progressively 5'-deleted COL1A1 promoter::cat constructs were co-expressed with an Sp1 expression plasmid in a cellular background devoid of Sp1 homology demonstrated that Sp1 markedly enhanced the COL1A1 promoter activity. These results suggest that the transcriptional activity of the human COL1A1 can be positively regulated by Sp1.
The influence of dopamine on active sodium transport across frog skin measured as short circuit current.	The influence of dopamine (DA) on short circuit current (SCC) across isolated Rana esculenta skin was studied to determine whethera a DA receptor system exists in that cell membrane model and what is the influence of DA on SCC. Experiments were carried out with both alpha- and beta-adrenergic blockers and cocaine present in the Ringer solution. DA in cumulative doses added to the inner Ringer solution stimulated SCC in a dose-dependent manner. Apomorphine (10(-5) M) shifted the DA dose--response curve to the left and increased the maximum DA response. Haloperidol (10(-9) M) antagonized the effects of the DA depressing maximum response as well. Imidazole (10(-8) M and 10(-9) M) antagonized the influence of DA in a manner similar to haloperidol. It appeared that there were DA receptors in frog skin and that haloperidol as well as imidazole were DA antagonists which acted non-competitively.
The effects of ageing on cutaneous wound healing in mammals.	The dogma that cutaneous wound healing is impaired as a function of age is largely unsubstantiated. This can be attributed to poor experimental design of human studies, the lack of subject characterisation with the exclusion of disease processes, and the study of inappropriate animal models. Structural and functional changes in skin with age have been reported, such as a decrease in dermal thickness, decline in collagen content, a subtle alteration in the glycosaminoglycan profile, and a loss of elasticity, but these reports are subject to the above criticisms in addition to the often-neglected requirement for site specificity. Wound repair can be thought of as a culmination of three major overlapping phases: inflammation, proliferation and remodelling. The inflammatory process has not been studied systematically with respect to age, and despite a reported decline in cellular function and number, there is a confounding increase in the production of specific cytokines involved in the process of repair. The proliferative phase is associated with a loss of cellular responsiveness to specific cytokines with a decline in motility and proliferation; however caution in interpreting these findings is important as, for example, the definition of 'ageing' is used rather loosely with the result that neonatal versus young adult cells are compared instead of young versus old adults. During remodelling, fibronectin and collagen production may increase with age, as may wound contraction; the deposition of elastin has not been assessed and the resulting mechanical properties of the scar are controversial, not least because human in vivo studies have been ignored. The absence of a critical review on the effects of advancing age on wound healing has conspired to permit the perpetuation of the belief that well defined tenets exist. This review aims to redress this imbalance and to highlight the need for well designed research into an increasingly important field.
Enhanced collagen synthesis and transcription by peak E, a contaminant of L-tryptophan preparations associated with the eosinophilia myalgia syndrome epidemic.	The pathogenesis of the eosinophilia myalgia syndrome (EMS) remains unclear. Several abnormal constituents have been found in the L-tryptophan lots responsible for the illness, particularly, 1,1-ethylidenebis[L-tryptophan], also called peak E or EBT, and 3-phenylamino-alanine or peak 5. However, the role of these contaminants in the pathogenesis of EMS and in the development of fibrosis is unknown. We now report that peak E, a dimer of L-tryptophan, is a potent stimulus for human dermal fibroblast DNA and collagen synthesis. Peak E (0.1-1.0 microM) increased DNA synthesis up to four-fold (P = 0.0001) in a dose-dependent manner (r = 0.987). When added to monolayer cultures for 2 to 24 h, peak E (0.5 to 100 microM) caused a progressive, more than threefold increase in alpha 1(I) procollagen mRNA levels and collagenous protein. No increase in procollagen mRNA levels was found after the addition of another major L-tryptophan contaminant, peak 5, or with L-tryptophan itself. Transient transfection with a 2.5-kb alpha 1(I) procollagen promoter-luciferase construct showed that peak E causes a twofold upregulation of promoter activity (P = 0.022). Contraction of collagen gels, consisting of human dermal fibroblasts incorporated into a type I collagen lattice, was enhanced two-fold by exposure to peak E (P = 0.001). We conclude that a major constituent of contaminated batches of L-tryptophan, peak E, is a potent stimulus for fibroblast activation and collagen synthesis. This stimulatory action of peak E may provide a direct mechanism for the development of fibrosis in EMS.
Two different cis-acting regulatory regions direct cell-specific transcription of the collagen alpha 1(I) gene in hepatic stellate cells and in skin and tendon fibroblasts.	The expression of the collagen alpha 1(I) gene in activated stellate cells plays an important role during liver fibrogenesis. To identify the critical cis-elements of the collagen alpha 1(I) gene in stellate cells, we used transgenic animals bearing various collagen alpha 1(I) regulatory regions directing the expression of either a human growth hormone minigene or the bacterial beta-galactosidase gene. We found that collagen alpha 1(I)-human growth hormone transgene expression was constitutively high in tendon and skin, provided the transgene contained the -2.3 to -0.44 kb collagen regulatory region. However in the liver, expression was stimulated several-fold, as was the endogeneous gene, by the fibrogenic hepatotoxin carbon tetrachloride. This stimulation occurred whether the collagen 5' regulatory region extended -2.3, -1.6 or -0.44 kb, and in the presence or absence of much of the first intron (+292 to +1607 bp). In addition, the -0.44 kb 5' region was sufficient for high-level transgene expression in stellate cells, following their activation by culture on plastic. In contrast, in skin and tendon, high-level transcription of the collagen alpha 1(I) gene required the -2.3 to -0.44 kb 5' flanking region. Thus, two different cis-regulatory regions direct cell-specific transcription of the collagen alpha 1(I) gene in stellate cells and in skin and tendon.
Compensation for the interracial variance in the cutaneous synthesis of vitamin D.	We investigated the homeostatic compensation for the lower cutaneous synthesis of vitamin D in heavily melanized persons. Vitamin D2 (50,000 IU) was administered in a single oral dose to 24 young adults, 12 blacks and 12 whites, matched for age, gender, and socioeconomic status. We also included a group of eight healthy elderly white adults as representatives of a population with a nonracial mechanism for decreased cutaneous vitamin D synthesis. Plasma determinants were performed under basal conditions and at 6, 10, and 24 hours after vitamin D intake. Basal 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25-OH-D) levels were significantly lower in blacks (12.5 +/- 2.2 ng/ml (mean +/- SEM)) and in elderly whites (19.2 +/- 1.9 ng/ml), compared with young whites (30.2 +/- 3.0 ng/ml (p < 0.0001)); levels of basal 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (1,25(OH)2 -D) did not differ between groups. The vitamin D blood curve was similar between groups after the oral vitamin D2 load. Increases in 25-OH-D were 91.7 +/- 15.9% in blacks, 18.8 +/- 5.2% in young whites, and 28.6 +/- 6.9 in elderly whites; 1,25(OH)2-D levels increased slightly and did not differ between groups, although in blacks the change over time was significant (p < 0.05). As a whole, the study populations exhibited a strong relation between basal and peak 25-OH-D (r = -0.80; p < 0.001). Levels of intact parathyroid hormone and serum calcium of blacks and young whites did not differ within or between groups throughout the test.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effect of perfusion flow rate on the tissue uptake of solutes after dermal application using the rat isolated perfused hindlimb preparation.	The rat perfused hindlimb preparation was investigated as a model to study the dermal clearance and tissue distribution of three solutes with differing physicochemical properties ([3H]water, [3H]diazepam, and [14C]lignocaine). The dermal clearance of each solute increased and the depth of tissue preparation decreased with increasing perfusion flow rate. The half-life for solute efflux from tissues into perfusate, and the peak times for amount of solute in tissue were in the order water > lignocaine > diazepam. Topical iontophoresis, which has previously been shown to achieve similar clearances from topical sites to those seen following passive dermal application, resulted in a clearance of lignocaine in the perfused hindlimb comparable with that obtained in the preparation following passive absorption through exposed dermis. The distribution of capillary blood flow in the perfused hindlimb was quantified using 51Cr-labelled 15-microns microspheres, with greater increases in flow found in deeper muscle tissues with increasing perfusion flow rate compared with superficial layers. Microsphere studies in anaesthetized rats also demonstrate slight differences in the distribution of flow within the hindlimb compared with the perfused preparation. We conclude that the rat perfused hindlimb preparation successfully combines many of the advantages of in-vitro and in-vivo methods and has potential for routine use in the study of solute dermal absorption kinetics.
Interleukin-1 alpha- and beta-, interleukin-6- and tumour necrosis factor-alpha-like immunoreactivities in chronic granulomatous skin conditions.	Paraformaldehyde-fixed tissue of chronic granulomatous skin conditions, such as cutaneous leishmaniasis, granuloma annulare, leprosy and hidroadenitis, was investigated for the presence of interleukin-1 alpha-, interleukin-1 beta-, interleukin-6- and tumour necrosis factor-alpha-like immunoreactivities among the cellular infiltrates. There was a weak to strong cytoplasmic labelling of plasma cells for interleukin-6 and tumour necrosis factor-alpha at the periphery of the granulomatous mass and around the skin appendages. The interleukin-6-like immunoreactivity seemed to be correlated with the coarseness of the chromatin material of the cells, being more intense with coarse chromatin. The cytoplasmic labelling for interleukin-1 alpha and interleukin-1 beta in the plasma cells was less intense. Epitheloid, Langhans' giant cells and small round cells exhibited a weak to moderate cytoplasmic labelling for interleukin-1 alpha and interleukin-1 beta, whereas the staining intensity for interleukin-6 and tumour necrosis factor-alpha was weak to strong. In addition, there was staining of the stroma in the centre of granuloma with antisera against interleukin-1 alpha, interleukin-1 beta, interleukin-6 and tumour necrosis factor-alpha. This area contained few cells, suggesting that the granuloma was in a resolution process. A contribution of interleukin-6 and tumour necrosis factor-alpha to the granulomatous reaction, at least during the maintenance period, is suggested by the occurrence of these cytokines in the skin conditions studied. The findings are also consistent with a suggested role of B cells in the late stages of the granulomatous reaction. In addition, they are in line with the reported declining role of interleukin-1 in the maintenance of granuloma.
A human amyloid precursor-like protein is highly homologous to a mouse sequence-specific DNA-binding protein.	From a cDNA sequence, we have deduced the amino acid sequence for a human amyloid precursor-like protein (APPH) with > 92% identity to the CDEI binding protein (CDEBP) of the mouse and the fragmentary rat protein YWK-II of unknown function. Expression of APPH was found in all tissues examined. A striking homology of APPH to human amyloid precursor protein (APP) was observed. Overall identity accounts for 52.7%. However, there are three domains of APPH with remarkably higher similarities, corresponding to amino acid sequence positions 47-204 (76.6%), 308-567 (67.7%), and 694-763 (69.9%). Using an APPH antiserum, we localized APPH in nuclei of human interphase cells and found an increased synthesis of APPH in mitotic cells. Our results indicate that the highly conserved proteins human APPH, mouse CDEBP, and rat YWK-II are apparently homologues of a CDEI binding protein with indispensible function in mammalian genome segregation.
Effects of dibutyryl cyclic AMP on hyaluronan and proteoglycan synthesis by retroocular tissue fibroblasts in culture.	Deposition of glycosaminoglycan is one of the histological features of Graves' ophthalmopathy. Although retroocular tissue fibroblasts are considered to be responsible for glycosaminoglycan accumulation, it is not known what is stimulating the fibroblasts. There are studies which are in support of and against the role of anti-TSH receptor antibodies in the pathogenesis of Graves' ophthalmopathy. TSH-receptor antibodies increase cAMP as a second messenger in thyroid cells. We studied the effects of dibutyryl cyclic AMP (Bt2 cAMP) on glycosaminoglycan synthesis by retroocular tissue fibroblasts in order to known whether cAMP can modulate glycosaminoglycan synthesis. Retroocular tissue fibroblasts mainly synthesize hyaluronan, the large chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan and the small chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan as glycosaminoglycan in cell culture. The amount of hyaluronan synthesis was measured as [3H]glucosamine incorporation into macromolecule susceptible to hyaluronidase digestion (from Streptomyces hyaluronlyticus). The amount of proteoglycan synthesis was measured as [35S]sulfate incorporation into macromolecules in medium and cell layer fraction. Proteoglycans in medium were further separated into the large proteoglycan and the small proteoglycan on a Superose 6 column. Bt2 cAMP increased both hyaluronan and proteoglycan synthesis by retroocular tissue fibroblasts, especially stimulating the secretion of the large proteoglycan synthesis by retroocular tissue fibroblasts, especially stimulating the secretion of the large proteoglycan. Effects of Bt2 cAMP on glycosaminoglycan synthesis were then compared with those in adult skin fibroblasts. Although the magnitude of response between the two was indistinct, the stimulation of the large proteoglycan synthesis by Bt2 cAMP was more prominent in retroocular tissue fibroblasts. The results suggest that the regulation of glycosaminoglycan synthesis by retroocular tissue fibroblasts is different from that by adult skin fibroblasts. Although further studies are required to determine its actual role, cAMP stimulates glycosaminoglycan synthesis by retroocular tissue fibroblasts and underlies the mechanism in Graves' ophthalmopathy.
Fast wavelength scanning reflectance spectrophotometer for noninvasive determination of hemoglobin oxygenation in human skin.	Oxygen saturation of hemoglobin (HbSO2) in skin vessels may be determined with photometric methods. However, the optical complexity of the skin makes quantitative measurements difficult. A possible approach is the analysis of reflectance spectra using the two-flux theory of Kubelka and Munk. The final equation of this theory which describes the transformation between absorbed and reflected light has been approximated by a hyperbola. Based on this approximation we evaluated skin spectra obtained from the forearm of 23 healthy subjects with a fast scanning reflection photometer (Oxyscan) applying visible light (535-620 nm). The hyperbola was used in a multicomponent analysis in which the measured spectrum is recalculated using reference spectra of oxygenated and deoxygenated hemoglobin (gaussian least-square method). A crucial requirement for the evaluation is the subtraction of the individual skin spectrum, obtained by clearing a spot of skin of hemoglobin exerting external pressure. At rest HbSO2 was in the range between 42 and 89% (mean +/- SD: 72.9 +/- 12.2%). Pharmacological and thermal generation of hyperemia combined with respiration of pure oxygen raised the values to 86-100% (97.9 +/- 4.6%). This was in good agreement with capillary ex vivo analysis yielding 96-100% (98.7 +/- 0.4%). Under arterial occlusion HbSO2 fell below 30% (14.5 +/- 7.8%). Our method allows rapid determinations of absolute HbSO2 values in the skin. The evaluation error is estimated to be between 5% for oxygenated and 10% for deoxygenated values.
Percutaneous absorption of topical parathion through porcine skin: in vitro studies on the effect of environmental perturbations.	Topical use of pesticides in domestic animals such as swine is a common practice; however, the effect of environmental factors on the extent of absorption has not received attention. Since no single factor can exert its effects alone in the natural environment, the interaction of environmental factors on the percutaneous absorption of pesticides must be understood before potential toxicity of dermal absorption of pesticides can be effectively estimated. In the present studies, the effects of air temperature (Ta), perfusate temperature (Tp), perfusate flow (F) and relative humidity (%RH) on absorption of parathion were studied in vitro in porcine skin. Parathion absorption was determined by measuring radiolabel appearing in the perfusate over time. Three main environmental parameters were found to have a significant effect on parathion penetration. Increasing Ta from 37 degrees C to 42 degrees C, %RH from 60% to 90% or F from 4 ml/h to 8 ml/h each produced a significant increase in penetration. The following significantly positive two-way interactions among test parameters were seen: Ta x F and %RH x F at the 4 micrograms dose, %RH x F at the 40 micrograms dose and Ta x %RH, Ta x F and %RH x F at the 400 micrograms dose. There were no three-way interactions at any of the three doses tested. These results suggest that the factors tested are not independent variables and must be considered interactive when used in assessing pesticide percutaneous absorption.
Evaluation of dermal and respiratory chloroform exposure in humans.	Chloroform is a known contaminant of chlorinated drinking water and of swimming pool water disinfected with chlorine or one of its derivatives. Few data exist regarding the importance of dermal and inhalation exposure routes to the chloroform body burden resulting from domestic and recreational use of chlorinated water. In our experimental study involving 11 male swimmers, we quantified the body burden resulting from exposure to various concentrations of chloroform in water and air of an indoor swimming pool, during a daily 55-min exercise period. From the first to the sixth exercise period, CHCl3 mean concentration in water was increased from 159 micrograms/l to 553 micrograms/l. Corresponding mean air CHCl3 level ranged from 597 ppb to 1630 ppb. To dissociate the dermal exposure route from that of inhalation, swimmers used scuba tanks during an additional exercise period. Chloroform concentrations were measured in alveolar air before and after each exercise period, as well as after 35 min of physical activity. Chloroform levels in water and air were measured every 10 min. We examined the relationship between alveolar air concentration (a measure of body burden) at 35 and 55 min and environmental chloroform concentrations by using multiple regression models. The natural logarithm of alveolar air concentration was strongly correlated with aqueous chloroform concentration both at 35 (p2 < 0.001, r2 = 0.75) and 55 min (p < 0.001, r2 = 0.86). The relationship with air concentrations was also statistically significant (35 min: p < 0.001, r2 = 0.58, 55 min: p < 0.001, r2 = 0.63).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Distribution and elimination of sulphadimethoxine and its metabolites in treated chicken.	Sulphadimethoxine (SDM), and its metabolites, N4-acetyl SDM, N1-(2-methyl-6-hydroxy-4-pyrimidinyl) sulphanilamide (6-OH-SDM), N1-(6-methyl-2-hydroxy-4-pyrimidinyl) sulphanilamide (2-OH-SDM), N1-(2,6-dihydroxy-4-pyrimidinyl) sulphanilamide (2,6-diOH-SDM) and SDM N1-glucuronide in chicken tissues were extracted, partially purified by Bond Elute SCX cartridges, and assayed and identified by HPLC/LC-MS after administration of SDM to chickens. During the administration and 24 h after withdrawal, SDM and 6-OH-SDM were observed in almost all tissues and excreta. N4-Acetyl SDM and 2,6-diOH-SDM were observed in some tissues, but 2-OH-SDM and SDM N1-glucuronide were observed in a few limited tissues. Twenty four hours after withdrawal, SDM and its metabolites, except 6-OH-SDM, decreased. SDM and its metabolites were eliminated from all tissues within 48 h of withdrawal.
A retinoic acid-inducible skin-specific gene (RIS-1/psoriasin): molecular cloning and analysis of gene expression in human skin in vivo and cultured skin cells in vitro.	A retinoic acid (RA) inducible skin-specific gene transcript (RIS-1) was isolated by differential hybridization screening of a RA-treated human skin cDNA library. The library was constructed from pooled RNA derived from normal adult human skin treated with all trans-RA for 4 h (n = 6) and 12 h (n = 6) in vivo. RIS-1 cDNA corresponded to a 0.6 kb transcript that was barely detectable in normal adult human skin but was significantly induced by 8 h in RA-treated compared to vehicle-treated skin (range 1.1-3.6 fold). Prolonged RA treatment for up to 24 h further increased relative RIS-1 mRNA levels by 1.3-5.5 fold. HPLC analysis of the RA content of 0.1% RA-treated skin in vivo revealed significant levels at 6 h (18.8-120.6 ng RA/g wet weight tissue; approximately 240 nM), immediately preceding the time point at which the increased RIS-1 mRNA level was first seen. This concentration of RA also induced the mRNA levels for cellular RA binding protein II (1.6-19 fold), a marker of RA activity in human skin. RIS-1 mRNA was detected by Northern and dot blotting only in normal skin but not in any other normal human tissues examined, indicating a tissue-specific pattern of gene expression. RIS-1 transcripts were detected at very low levels in untreated cultured human epidermal keratinocytes, while no expression was seen in dermal fibroblasts and melanocytes, the other major cell types in skin. Southern analysis of human and mouse DNA indicated the existence of evolutionarily conserved sequences for RIS-1 between these two species. The polypeptide sequence derived from the partial RIS-1 cDNA was found to be identical to the calcium binding domain found in 'psoriasin', a gene whose expression appears to be increased in the skin of psoriasis patients.
Sunlight, vitamin D, and ovarian cancer mortality rates in US women.	In general, ovarian cancer incidence and mortality is higher in northern than southern latitudes. This ecologic study tests the hypothesis that vitamin D produced in the skin from sunlight exposure may be associated with a protective action in ovarian cancer mortality.
Expression of keratinocyte growth factor mRNA in ex vivo and in vitro specimens of human cornea and conjunctiva.	The expression of keratinocyte growth factor (KGF) messenger RNA (mRNA) was examined in both ex vivo and in vitro specimens of human skin, conjunctiva and cornea. Total cellular mRNA was extracted from human skin, conjunctiva, cornea, cultured skin fibroblasts, cultured conjunctival fibroblasts and cultured keratocytes. Oligo dT-primed complementary DNA (cDNA) was synthesized using each RNA sample as a template. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to amplify the DNA sequence of KGF using each cDNA sample as a template. PCR products were then digested with restriction enzymes in order to determine the KGF prototype. In all samples, PCR products of the expected size for KGF were detected. The resulting restriction pattern proved that these products were identical to KGF prototype I, ie, authentic KGF. In conclusion, human keratocytes and conjunctival fibroblasts express mRNA coding for KGF prototype I, ie, authentic KGF, in both ex vivo and in vitro specimens.
Development and characterization of a novel skin model for cutaneous phototoxicology.	The biological consequences of exposure to ultraviolet radiation (UV) has been receiving increased attention. Most known biological effects (such as sunburn and skin cancer) are attributed to mid-wave UVB (290-320 nm) exposure. Phototoxicity, a nonimmunological UV-induced response, has been studied using in vivo (human and animal) and in vitro models. Ethical considerations and model limitations underscore the need for a reliable in vitro model to assess cutaneous phototoxicity that would ideally possess viable cells and have a normal anatomical structure with an intact and functional vasculature. This would allow therapeutic or preventive drugs to be tested in a system in which their disposition (cutaneous concentration-time profile) has been shown to be similar to the in vivo setting. In addition, morphological, biochemical and physiological changes should be easily monitored within the same system. The purpose of this study was to characterize the isolated perfused porcine skin flap (IPPSF) developed in our laboratory as a model for UVB exposure. IPPSFs (n > or = 4/treatment) were irradiated with UVB doses of 1260 mJ/cm2, 630 mJ/cm2, 315 mJ/cm2 or 0 mJ/cm2 both in vitro and in situ. Biomarkers used to assess phototoxicity demonstrated a decrease in glucose utilization, an increase in vascular resistance (pressure/flow) and an increase in the release of PGE2. Morphologically, intracellular and intercellular epidermal edema and sunburn (pyknotic) cells (SBC) increased with dose.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Recovery of antioxidants and reduction in lipid hydroperoxides in murine epidermis and dermis after acute ultraviolet radiation exposure.	In previous studies we have found that a single acute dose of ultraviolet radiation to murine skin causes a large degree of destruction of enzymic and non-enzymic antioxidants immediately after irradiation. In the present study, we wished to elucidate the recovery of antioxidants after a single dose of ultraviolet (UV) radiation. We measured antioxidants and lipid hydroperoxides (as a marker of membrane damage) in murine epidermis and the dermis at 0, 3, 12, 24, 72 and 120 h after exposure to UV radiation (25 J/cm2, UVA+UVB). Lipid hydroperoxides showed the highest values immediately after UV exposure and returned to control values within 24 h in both epidermis and dermis. The activities of catalase, glutathione peroxidase and glutathione reductase showed the lowest activities immediately after UV exposure; superoxide dismutase activities reached a minimum at 3 h postexposure. The pattern of recovery was different for each enzyme and for epidermis and dermis. The activities of superoxide dismutase and catalase decreased remarkably and recovered slowly. Superoxide dismutase in the dermis recovered full activity by 120 h and in the epidermis by 12 h. Catalase activity in both epidermis and dermis had returned to only 50% of control activity at 120 h, although the epidermis showed a temporary increase (to 93%) at 24 h. Glutathione peroxidase and glutathione reductase were slightly decreased immediately after irradiation, recovered to 100% at 3 h and then increased to 200-250% in both the epidermis and the dermis at various times; values had returned to 100% in epidermis by 120 h but remained elevated in dermis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Skin changes in patients claiming to suffer from "screen dermatitis": a two-case open-field provocation study.	An open-field provocation, in front of an ordinary TV set, of 2 patients regarding themselves as suffering from skin problems due to work at video display terminals (VDTs) is presented. Using immunohistochemistry, in combination with a wide range of antisera directed towards cellular and neurochemical markers, we were able to show a high-to-very high number of somatostatin-immunoreactive dendritic cells as well as histamine-positive mast cells in skin biopsies from the anterior neck taken before the start of the provocation. At the end of the provocation the number of mast cells was unchanged; however, the somatostatin-positive cells had seemingly disappeared. The reason for this latter findings is discussed in terms of loss of immunoreactivity, increase of breakdown, etc. The high number of mast cells present may explain the clinical symptoms of itch, pain, edema and erythema. Naturally, in view of the present public debate, the observed results are highly provocative and, we believe, have to be taken seriously.
Relative influence of ethanol and propylene glycol cosolvents on deposition of minoxidil into the skin.	Minoxidil, a potent antihypertensive, is moderately effective in the treatment of hair loss when it is applied to the scalp as a 2% solution in 60% ethanol, 20% propylene glycol and 20% water. Important questions remain concerning both the mechanism of delivery and the pathway of penetration of this drug from its ternary solvent system. Since preliminary studies in our laboratory indicated that water in the formulation influenced permeation far less than the other two solvents, we examined the relative deposition and penetration influences of binary combinations of ethanol and propylene glycol. When 50 microL/cm2 of the formulations was spread over hairless mouse skin sections mounted in Franz diffusion cells, only small amounts of minoxidil were actually recovered from the receiver compartments. Nevertheless, more minoxidil penetrated the skin as the proportion of ethanol in the mixtures was increased. To determine if these in vitro results formed a representative picture of the in vivo behaviors of these vehicles, selected deposition experiments were performed on live, anesthetized mice under experimental conditions similar to those used in the diffusion cell work. The good agreement between in vivo and in vitro studies may be a result of the relatively fast partitioning of the drug into the skin as compared to its diffusion through the skin.
The 5'-sequence of the murine Hox-b3 (Hox-2.7) gene and its intron contain multiple transcription-regulatory elements.	We sought to clone and characterize the murine Hox-b3 gene. In Xenopus embryos, the homologous gene has been shown to be responsive to retinoic acid, an agent which has profound effects on tissue growth and development. By plaque hybridization, using a partial, murine Hox-b3 cDNA as a probe, we screened a genomic library and isolated a series of overlapping clones. Restriction fragments from positive clones were sequenced by the dideoxy method on an automated DNA sequencer. We report the genomic sequence of the murine Hox-b3 gene. The sequence has been submitted to the GenBank database (accession number U02278). Our sequence extends from the P1 promoter through the coding sequence of the gene to the 3'-untranslated region. In common with other homeobox genes, there is an intron between the conserved hexapeptide and the homeobox. It is 866 bp long and has 3'- and 5'-splice sites very similar to the consensus, a long polypyrimidine tract and a potential branch point near the 3'-splice site. We have analyzed the sequence 5' to the initiation codon and the intron for putative control elements, and have identified a series of putative transcription factor binding sites in the P1 promoter and intron, including two for the retinoid X receptor-beta. Their possible significance is discussed. The sequences we have identified may be responsible for the observed pattern of expression of the gene. This sequence and the clones from which it is derived will enable a molecular dissection of the P1 promoter region.
Transdermal delivery of narcotic analgesics: comparative metabolism and permeability of human cadaver skin and hairless mouse skin.	The permeation of hairless mouse skin and human cadaver skin by narcotic analgesics was investigated to determine the interspecies variation. Permeability coefficients of morphine, fentanyl, and sufentanil across full-thickness hairless mouse skin were 1 order of magnitude higher than those found for human epidermis. The permeability coefficient of morphine for stripped hairless mouse skin was 500-fold higher than that for intact skin, showing the stratum corneum to be the principal barrier to its penetration. The permeability coefficient of fentanyl for stripped hairless mouse skin was also raised, but stripping caused an inappreciable increase in the permeation rate of sufentanil. The thick dermis of excised mouse skin obviously offered a significant resistance to the permeation of these lipophilic compounds. In comparison, the permeability coefficients of fentanyl and sufentanil through stripped cadaver epidermis (n > or = 25) were 67 and 37 higher than for intact human epidermis, respectively. The skin metabolism of the narcotics was investigated. No significant metabolic degradation of morphine, fentnayl, and sufentanil was observed in either fresh human cadaver skin or hairless mouse skin homogenates in the presence of NADPH cofactor, suggesting a low monooxygenase enzyme presence in skin. Moreover, no measurable glucuronidation of morphine took place in human skin or hairless mouse skin. Both processes proceeded rapidly in liver homogenates (mouse) under identical circumstances. It thus appears that these drugs pass through in intact form.
Characterization of a single prolactin (PRL) receptor in tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus) which binds both PRLI and PRLII.	In tilapia, there are two forms of prolactin (PRL) whose effects on sodium and chloride movements differ and depend on the living environment of the fish. To see whether different receptors or the same receptor mediates these different effects, we have characterized the specific binding of both forms of tilapia (ti)PRL in two osmoregulatory organs, the gill and kidney. Two recombinant tiPRLs were used for this analysis. The recombinant hormones had the same properties as the native hormones in a tilapia gill radioreceptor assay. Specific binding to gill and kidney membranes was increased by optimizing the quality of the tissue preparations (physiological state of fish, membrane preparation) and the incubation conditions (pH, salt concentrations, temperature, time). Under these optimized conditions, we detected only one class of high affinity PRL receptor in gill and kidney. Its binding affinity was higher for tiPRLI than for tiPRLII in both gill and kidney (for tiPRLI the respective affinity values were 2.9 and 2.3 x 10(10) per M, for tiPRLII they were 1.9 and 0.5 x 10(10) per M). In competition studies, tiPRLI was more potent, followed by tiPRLII and ovine (o)PRL. tiGH and oGH did not significantly displace either tiPRL. The receptor we have characterized thus recognizes quite specifically both tiPRLs.
Frog skin opioid peptides: a case for environmental mimicry.	Naturally occurring environmental substances often mimic endogenous substances found in mammals and are capable of interacting with specific proteins, such as receptors, with a high degree of fidelity and selectivity. Narcotic alkaloids and amphibian skin secretions, introduced into human society through close association with plants and animals through folk medicine and religious divination practices, were incorporated into the armamentarium of the early pharmacopoeia. These skin secretions contain a myriad of potent bioactive substances, including alkaloids, biogenic amines, peptides, enzymes, mucus, and toxins (noxious compounds notwithstanding); each class exhibits a broad range of characteristic properties. One specific group of peptides, the opioids, containing the dermorphins (dermal morphinelike substances) and the deltorphins (delta-selective opioids), display remarkable analgesic properties and include an amino acid with the rare (in a mammalian context) D-enantiomer in lieu of the normal L-isomer. Synthesis of numerous stereospecific analogues and conformational analyses of these peptides provided essential insights into the tertiary composition and microenvironment of the receptor "pocket" and the optimal interactions between receptor and ligand that trigger a biological response; new advances in the synthesis and receptor-binding properties of the deltorphins are discussed in detail. These receptor-specific opioid peptides act as more than mimics of endogenous opioids: their high selectivity for either the mu or delta receptor makes them formidable environmentally derived agents in the search for new antagonists for treating opiate addiction and in the treatment of a wide variety of human disorders.
The cultured fibroblast model.	Cultured skin fibroblasts have been successfully used to elucidate the molecular and biochemical bases of a large number of inborn errors of metabolism which cause neurological disease. The fibroblast model is now being extended to studies of genetic diseases of the nervous system with later clinical onset, including Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Persistence in the cultured cells of an abnormality found in AD brain provides evidence that the abnormality in brain is not simply a reflection of anatomic or chemical damage in the clinically affected tissue. Biochemical and cell biological studies of AD fibroblasts are succeeding in implicating molecules which warrant further study at the molecular genetic level. In neurological diseases with an important genetic component, including AD, studies of fibroblasts can be a useful adjunct to studies of brain.
Improving the sensitivity of in vitro skin penetration experiments.	The institution of a readily-implemented sample screening and data handling procedure for in vitro skin penetration studies yields substantial improvements in sensitivity for distinguishing between formulations, treatments, penetrants, etc. The procedure involves four steps: 1) prescreen the tissue samples to determine their intrinsic permeability; 2) apply treatments using a randomized complete block (RCB) design, with blocking by tissue permeability; 3) apply a variance-stabilizing transformation to the penetration data, followed by outlier testing; and 4) analyze the transformed data according to an RCB analysis of variance, using tissue permeability as the blocking variable. For penetration studies in which high sample variability is a concern, the above procedure commonly yields a sensitivity advantage of several-fold versus alternative methods of comparison.
Transport of beta-estradiol in freshly excised human skin in vitro: diffusion and metabolism in each skin layer.	This paper describes an experimental and theoretical evaluation of beta-estradiol (E2) transport in post-surgery fresh human skin in vitro. Necessary auxiliary experimental methods were newly developed for these studies. The experimental fluxes of E2 and the metabolite, estrone (E1), using the dermis, stripped skin, and split-thickness skin were consistent with a model considering the human skin as a three-layer (stratum corneum, viable epidermis, and dermis) membrane with the enzyme activity mainly residing in the basal layer of the viable epidermis. The diffusion and metabolism parameters for each skin layer were determined in the overall transdermal transport of E2. Compared to fresh hairless mouse skin, fresh human skin appears more resistant to the stratum corneum diffusion of E2 and is much less capable of metabolizing E2 to E1. These in vitro results have been extrapolated to the possible in vivo human skin situation with blood vessels directly beneath the viable epidermis providing "sink" conditions a short distance from the dermo-epidermal junction. The model analysis has demonstrated that there would be less metabolism and that a much smaller amount of the transdermal metabolite (E1) would be taken up by the blood capillary due to the shorter dermis path length for permeants in vivo than in the in vitro case using dermatomed split-thickness skin.
Effect of electroporation on transdermal iontophoretic delivery of luteinizing hormone releasing hormone (LHRH) in vitro.	Electroporation, the creation of transient, enhanced membrane permeability using short duration (microseconds to millisecond) electrical pulses, can be used to increase transdermal drug delivery. The effect of an (electroporative) electric pulse (1000 V, tau = 5 msec) on the iontophoretic transport of LHRH through human skin was studied in vitro. Fluxes achieved with and without a pulse under different current densities (0- 4 mA/cm2) were compared. The results indicated that the application of a single pulse prior to iontophoresis consistently yielded higher fluxes (5-10 times the corresponding iontophoretic flux). For example, at 0.5 mA/cm2 fluxes were 0.27 +/- 0.08 and 1.62 +/- 0.05 micrograms/hr/cm2 without and with the pulse, respectively. At each current density studied, the LHRH flux decreased after iontophoresis, approaching pre-treatment values. The results show that electroporation can significantly and reversibly increase the flux of LHRH through human skin. These results also indicate the therapeutic utility of using electroporation for enhanced transdermal transport.
Absorption and metabolism of hydrocortisone 21-butyrate, 21-hemisuccinate and hydrocortisone by skin of the rabbit ear during single-pass perfusion.	1. Rabbit ear was single-pass perfused with protein-free buffer solution at a rate of 0.02 ml/min per cm2 surface area for up to 6 h. 2. Hydrocortisone or hydrocortisone 21-butyrate or hydrocortisone 21-hemisuccinate was applied dermally (0.01-1.0% w/w) in suspension with isopropyl myristate or dissolved in 1,2-propanediol. The ointments were stiffened with 5% polyethylene 1500 or 1.2% methylcellulose respectively. 3. Hydrocortisone was slowly absorbed and did not reach a steady-state absorption rate during the experimental period. 4. No metabolites of hydrocortisone were found during ear perfusion. In the supernatant of skin homogenate, however, cortisone, hydrocortisone-20 alpha-ol and another, as yet unidentified metabolite, were observed. 5. Hydrocortisone 21-butyrate was completely hydrolysed during dermal absorption, showing steady-state concentrations of hydrocortisone in the effluent. Hydrocortisone 21-hemisuccinate did not reach steady-state concentrations in the effluent. About two-thirds was hydrolysed during absorption. 6. During arterial perfusion approximately 30% of hydrocortisone 21-butyrate was hydrolysed whereas 97% of hydrocortisone 21-hemisuccinate remained intact. 7. First-pass ester hydrolysis in skin may be complete for the poorly absorbed glucocorticoids leading to metabolites of less lipophilicity.
Levels of terbinafine in plasma, stratum corneum, dermis-epidermis (without stratum corneum), sebum, hair and nails during and after 250 mg terbinafine orally once per day for four weeks.	The distribution of terbinafine in stratum corneum dermis-epidermis (without stratum corneum), sebum, hair, nails and plasma was studied in human male volunteers during and after 250 mg orally once daily for 28 days. The highest concentration was seen in sebum, 56.07 micrograms/g, after 14 days of therapy. The concentration was still 1.0 microgram/g 44 days after stop of medication. In stratum corneum the highest concentration, 14.4 micrograms/g, was seen 1 day after the last day of therapy, and it was 2.1 micrograms/g 44 days after stop of medication. The concentrations in hair and nails were lower with a maximum of 2.36 and 0.39 micrograms/g respectively, 1 day after stop of therapy, and still 0.21 microgram/g in hair and 0.09 microgram/g in nails 55 days after the last day of medication. With the exception of nails, all other tissue levels were at all times above the plasma concentrations. For nails, tissue levels exceeded that of plasma as early as 1 day after stop of medication, and this difference continued to increase until the last day of tissue sampling, 55 days after the last tablet. These results indicate that terbinafine is delivered to the stratum corneum through sebum and to a minor extent by direct diffusion through dermis-epidermis. Probably short-term therapy with terbinafine may be effective in the treatment of several dermatomycoses, due to the strong binding of terbinafine to stratum corneum for a long time after stop of medication.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Percutaneous permeation of basic compounds through shed snake skin as a model membrane.	Relationships between the in-vitro permeability of basic compounds through shed snake skin as a suitable model membrane for human stratum corneum and their physiochemical properties were investigated. Compounds with low pKa values were selected to compare the permeabilities of non-ionized forms of the compounds. Steady-state penetration was achieved immediately without a lag time for all compounds. Flux rate and permeability coefficient were calculated from the steady-state penetration data and relationships between these parameters and the physicochemical properties were investigated. The results showed that permeability may be controlled by the lipophilicity and the molecular size of the compounds. Equations were developed to predict the permeability from the molecular weights and the partition coefficients of basic compounds.
Oct-6: a regulator of keratinocyte gene expression in stratified squamous epithelia.	POU domain proteins have been implicated as regulators of differentiation and development, particularly in early embryogenesis and in neural morphogenesis. Given that neural and epidermal lineages originate from a common precursor (ectodermal) cell, we explored the possibility that POU proteins are involved in epidermal differentiation. Using reverse transcription-PCR and degenerate oligonucleotides, we generated several POU domain cDNAs from cultured human epidermal mRNAs. One of these encoded a sequence identical to the rodent Tst-1/SCIP/Oct-6 POU domain. Subsequently, we isolated a cDNA encoding a 45.3-kDa protein with 98% sequence identity to rat Tst-1/SCIP and 94% identity to mouse Oct-6. This protein bound specifically to the canonical octamer motif, warranting its designation as human Oct-6. By RNase protection assays, by PCR, and by immunoblot analysis, Oct-6 was expressed in cultured epidermal keratinocytes. By in situ hybridization, Oct-6 mRNA was detected not only in epidermis but also a variety of other stratified squamous epithelia and with greater signals than testis, the tissue in which this POU protein was originally discovered. Moreover, Oct-6 exerted a marked and specific negative influence on expression of the K5 and K14 genes, abundantly expressed in most dividing stratified squamous epithelial cells and downregulated as cells commit to terminally differentiate. The repressive effect was complex, but it was not observed with Oct-1, nor was it seen with a truncated Oct-6 missing the POU domain. Taken together, our studies suggest that Oct-6 may play an important role in controlling gene expression in stratified squamous epithelia, including epidermis.
Detection of human androgen receptor mRNA expression abnormalities by competitive PCR.	A competitive polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method for analysis of androgen receptor (AR) mRNA expression is described. The technique involves the use of an in vitro-transcribed RNA (cRNA) corresponding to a region of the AR mRNA transcript as a competitor in reverse transcription and PCR (RT-PCR) using total cellular RNA. The competitor RNA contains a site-directed mutation that produces a restriction fragment length polymorphism after RT-PCR and endonuclease digestion. We demonstrate that incorporation of the competitor RNA into RT-PCR reactions allows rapid semiquantitative determination of relative AR mRNA levels without the necessity of following PCR product formation kinetically; reaction products are assessed at the conclusion of the reaction sequence and without the use of radioactive probes or other specialized detection systems. We have used competitive PCR to demonstrate low levels of AR mRNA in an androgen-unresponsive human prostate cell line (PC3). In addition, we have also used this method to confirm that genital fibroblasts obtained from a subject with penoscrotal hypospadias (a non-intersex masculinization defect) that exhibit low levels of high-affinity androgen binding also exhibit abnormally low AR mRNA levels. These last results suggest that some non-intersex malformations of the urogenital tract are associated with abnormalities in the expression of the androgen receptor.
Filipin test for diagnosis of Niemann-Pick disease type C.	The test is based on the reaction of unesterified cholesterol with fluorescent antibiotic filipin giving a strongly fluorescent, stable cholesterol-filipin complex suitable for in situ detection. The test is useful for the evaluation of impaired cholesterol esterification in cultured cells (fibroblasts or others) in Niemann-Pick disease type C.
GATA-4 is a novel transcription factor expressed in endocardium of the developing heart.	We have isolated and characterized Xenopus cDNA clones for a new transcription factor that represents an early marker for the developing heart. The cDNAs encode a protein that we have designated GATA-4; it contains the highly conserved DNA-binding domain that characterizes this family of cell-type restricted transcriptional activators. Whole-embryo in situ analysis of Xenopus embryos demonstrates that the GATA-4 gene is transcribed in presumptive cardiac ventral mesoderm at the time that bilateral progenitors fuse and form the cardiac tube. GATA-4 is therefore the earliest molecular marker of cardiogenesis yet characterized. By stage 30, the GATA-4 mRNA is expressed in the developing atria and ventricles; at stage 38, cross-sections reveal that the gene is active in the endocardial layer, but not in myocardium. By stage 40, GATA-4 message is detected in the great vessels. In the adult frog, the GATA-4 gene is highly transcribed in heart and gut; lower levels of message are detected in various endoderm-derived tissues and gonads. Expression in the stomach is largely confined to the epithelium. The GATA-4 gene is first activated at stage 11; mRNA is initially present throughout the marginal zone of explants and later partially localized to the ventral marginal zone. GATA-4 mRNA is also detected at high levels in cultured endodermal explants derived from the vegetal region of early embryos. In mesoderm induction experiments, GATA-4 transcription is not induced in animal caps treated with activin or bFGF. The GATA-4 gene may provide a new early marker for studying the inductive processes that lead to the formation of the cardiovascular system and for the specification of the endocardial lineage.
Decreased peripheral 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine (T3) production from thyroxine (T4): a syndrome of impaired thyroid hormone activation due to transport inhibition of T4- into T3-producing tissues.	T4, rT3, and T3 kinetic studies have been performed in a T4-substituted female who showed an increased serum T4/T3 ratio and substantially increased rT3 serum levels in the presence of normal serum thyroid hormone binding properties. The kinetic studies were performed to discriminate between T4 transport inhibition into plasma T3-producing tissues and inhibition of extrathyroidal T4 to T3 conversion. The principal findings were that both T4 and rT3 transport were inhibited into the rapid equilibrating pool (REP), which mainly consists of the liver. The plasma T3 production rate was decreased. Despite an elevated serum free T4 level, serum TSH was elevated, pointing to T4 transport inhibition at the level of the thyrotroph as well. Transport of T4 and rT3 was normal to the slowly equilibrating pool, whereas no transport inhibition of T3 was found to either pool. Because T4 into T3 conversion efficiency in the REP (the main source of plasma T3 production) was normal, it was concluded that the lowered T3 production in the subject was caused by transport inhibition of T4 into the liver. Although the occurrence of the syndrome is rare, its significance is of general importance, in that it shows that transport of thyroid hormone may vary at the tissue level. Furthermore, as T3 is the principal biologically active thyroid hormone, regulation of transport of T4 into the REP may play a (patho)physiological role in the ultimate determination of thyroid hormone activity in the tissues.
Soft drugs--XVI. Design, evaluation and transdermal penetration of novel soft anticholinergics based on methatropine.	Atropine has been reported to produce unwanted systemic side effects on topical administration into the eye. The same problem could arise when atropine is used topically as a suppressant of eccrine sweating. In this study, the principles of soft drug design were applied to methatropine. A hypothetical carboxylate metabolite of methatropine was reactivated by esterification with cyclic and alicyclic alcohols to yield a series of compounds (3a-g). In vitro evaluation by guinea pig ileum assay indicated that the compounds are potent anticholinergics and the lead carboxylate metabolite is about 60 times less potent than the most active compound of the series. The activity was found to decrease with the increasing side chain length. The n-octanol/water partition coefficients were found to be directly dependent on the chain length for the compounds made with straight chain alcohols. The transdermal permeability coefficients across the hairless mice skin were found to be directly dependent on the partition coefficients. The soft drugs are found to metabolize extensively during the penetration process compared to the unmetabolizable nature of methatropine. The soft drugs reported in this study will probably be able to elicit a local action at the site of application but will probably be metabolized rapidly in the systemic circulation, thereby avoiding the systemic side effects with a consequent increase in the therapeutic index.
Fibroblasts genetically modified to produce nerve growth factor induce robust neuritic ingrowth after grafting to the spinal cord.	The influences of neurotrophic factors on adult mammalian spinal cords are incompletely understood. In the present experiment, we utilized somatic gene transfer to examine the effects of nerve growth factor (NGF) on the unlesioned spinal cords of adult Fischer rats. Fischer 344 rat primary fibroblasts were genetically modified in vitro to produce and secrete NGF, then grafted to spinal cords at the T7 level. Grafts survived in vivo for periods of up to 1 year, and induced an extremely robust ingrowth of spinal neurites. Control and basic fibroblast growth factor-producing grafts did not promote extensive neurite growth. Neurites penetrating the NGF grafts were of sensory origin, since they labeled immunocytochemically for calcitonin gene-related peptide but not markers of other neuronal transmitter phenotypes. Electron microscopy revealed that neurites within NGF-secreting grafts were enveloped in glial cell processes and that axons frequently became myelinated. These results indicate that (i) genetically modified cell grafts are a useful model for studying trophic factor effects in the adult mammalian spinal cord, (ii) sensory neurites maintain robust NGF responsiveness into adulthood, and (iii) sprouting neurites can follow glial channels and become myelinated in the adult spinal cord. Grafts of fibroblasts genetically modified to secrete trophic factors merit study as potential tools for promoting regeneration after spinal cord injury.
Self-assembly of collagen I from a proband homozygous for a mutation that substituted serine for glycine at position 661 in the alpha 2(I) chain. Possible relationship between the effects of mutations on critical concentration and the severity of the phenotype.	Procollagen I was isolated from cultured skin fibroblasts from a proband who was homozygous for a mutation in the COL1A2 gene that substituted a serine codon for a glycine codon at position 661 of the alpha 2(I) chain. The procollagen I was cleaved to pCcollagen I by procollagen N-proteinase and the pCcollagen I was used as a substrate for assay of self-assembly of collagen I into fibrils. The mutated pCcollagen I was cleaved to collagen I by procollagen C-proteinase at the same rate as control pCcollagen I. However, self-assembly of the mutated collagen I had a lag period that was 15-fold greater than the lag period observed with normal collagen I under the same conditions. Also, self-assembly of the mutated collagen I had a propagation rate of about one-fourth of the propagation rate of normal collagen I. In addition, the critical concentration for fibril assembly was slightly increased. Rotary shadowing electron microscopy of the mutated procollagen I did not reveal any increased flexibility of the triple helix as was seen previously with two mutated procollagens I in which there were substitutions of cysteine for glycine residues in the alpha 1(I) chain (Vogel, B. E., Doelz, R., Kadler, K. E., Hojima, Y., Engel, J., and Prockop, D. J. (1988) J. Biol. Chem. 263, 19249-19255; Lightfoot, S. J., Holmes, D. F., Brass, A., Grant, M. E., Byers, P. H., and Kadler, K. E. (1992) J. Biol. Chem. 267, 25521-25528). However, morphometric analysis by dark-field light microscopy and electron microscopy showed that the fibrils formed from the mutated collagen I appeared thicker in diameter than the fibrils formed from the normal collagen I. Comparison of the results with similar data on four mutated procollagens previously studied raised the possibility that mutations which markedly increase the critical concentration of fibril assembly produce more severe phenotypes than mutations which change other parameters of fibril assembly.
Empirical modelling of chemical exposure in the rubber-manufacturing industry.	As part of a study of working conditions chemical exposure was assessed in 10 rubber-manufacturing plants in The Netherlands. Personal exposures to airborne particulates, rubber fumes and solvents, and also dermal contamination, were measured. To identify factors affecting exposure the personal exposure levels and information on tasks performed, ventilation characteristics and production variables were used in multiple linear regression models. The exposure was generally very variable. The specific circumstances in each department of each plant determined the actual levels of exposure to a large extent. The factors affecting exposure turned out to be different for each of the types of exposure considered. The model for exposure to airborne particulates explained 40% of the total variability and incorporating the actual time spent on a task only slightly improved the model (R2 = 0.42). The handling of chemicals in powder form was the main factor affecting exposure, forced ventilation having a negligible effect. The model for exposure to curing fumes (measured as the cyclohexane-soluble fraction of the particulate matter) explained 50% of the variability. Both curing temperature and pressure determined the level of rubber fumes. Local exhaust ventilation showed a significant exposure reducing effect. The effect of curing different elastomers was not statistically significant. Dermal exposure to cyclohexane-soluble matter could only be explained to a limited extent (R2 = 0.22). Tasks with frequent contact with (warm) compound and maintenance tasks in the engineering services departments resulted in high dermal exposure. Tasks in which solvents were directly used explained 56% of the variation in solvent exposures. Exposure data, together with information on tasks, methods of work, ventilation and production throughout a branch of industry, can be used to derive empirical statistical models which occupational hygienists can apply to study factors affecting exposure. These determining factors are of crucial importance, whenever hazard control or epidemiological research is the ultimate goal.
Stability and in vitro absorption of captopril, enalapril and lisinopril across the rat intestine.	In vitro absorption of three angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, captopril, enalapril and lisinopril, and their stabilities in aqueous buffer as well as their resistance to intestinal and dermal tissue homogenates were investigated. The results demonstrate that the spontaneous oxidation of captopril, enalapril and lisinopril followed first-order degradation kinetics in McIlvaine's citrate-phosphate buffer. The degradation rates for enalapril and lisinopril were much slower than that for captopril. With the former two ACE inhibitors, the first-order rate constants of breakdown in the presence of dermal homogenate were not significantly different from the control values. Intestinal homogenate increased the decomposition of both of these inhibitors when compared to the enzyme-free control systems. On the other hand, the first-order rates of disappearance of captopril in the presence of both dermal and intestinal homogenates were lower than in the enzyme-free system. The extent of reduction was proportional to the amount of homogenate added. This suggests that tissue homogenates prevent the oxidation of captopril to its disulphide dimer. Transport experiments show that the amounts of ACE inhibitors transferred from solution on the mucosal side increased linearly with incubation time over the 2 hr of study. The rates of transfer from the mucosal side to the serosal side had the following rank order: captopril > enalapril > lisinopril roughly in the ratio 1:1.13:1.27. Addition of harmaline caused a significant reduction in the transfer rate of captopril compared to the control system, which strongly suggests that captopril is transported by a sodium-dependent carrier-mediated process across intestinal tissue.
Complete androgen insensitivity due to mutations in the probable alpha-helical segments of the DNA-binding domain in the human androgen receptor.	We describe different single-amino acid aberrations in the DNA-binding domain (DBD) of the human androgen receptor (hAR) in three families with complete androgen insensitivity. No additional alteration was found in the translated portion of each mutant gene. In one family, an in-frame 3 nt deletion removes codon 581-(or 582) and, thereby, one of two phenylalanines that invariably occupy adjacent positions in the N-terminal alpha-helical region of the DBD in the steroid/thyroid/vitamin D receptor superfamily. In the second, an in-frame 3 nt loss deletes Arg614, an invariant residue in the C-terminal alpha-helix of the DBD. In the third, a G-->A transition causes Arg614His. Following transient transfection of COS cells with each mutant AR plasmid, there is a normal concentration of specific androgen-binding activity that has a reduced ability to bind two types of androgen response element (ARE), and to transregulate an androgen-responsive human growth hormone reporter gene. In genital skin fibroblasts with delta Phe581 or Arg614His, androgen-binding, AR protein and AR mRNA are markedly reduced; in gonadal fibroblasts with delta Arg614, AR mRNA may be reduced. Our data substantiate the primary contributions of Phe581 and Arg614 to normal hAR-ARE binding, and expose important secondary effects of the mutations affecting each residue.
Candida albicans aspartic proteinase cleaves and inactivates human epidermal cysteine proteinase inhibitor, cystatin A.	It is known that the cysteine proteinase inhibitor, cystatin, has a defence function against exogenous pathogens. Human epidermal cysteine proteinase inhibitor, cystatin A, which is a member of the cystatin family, is localized in the upper epidermal layer. In this study, the relationship between cystatin A and Candida aspartic proteinase (CAP), a putative Candida virulence factor, was studied. CAP activity was not affected by human epidermal cystatin A, while 90% of cystatin A activity was lost after incubation with CAP for 12 h at 37 degrees C. Human epidermal cystatin A was cleaved into small peptides by CAP, and the released peptides had no cystatin activity. These results suggest that CAP may induce an imbalance between cysteine proteinase and its inhibitor in cutaneous Candida infectious lesions through the degradation and inactivation of epidermal cystatin A.
Extrahepatic metabolism of drugs in humans.	Although the liver plays the major role in drug metabolism [e.g. by oxidative cytochrome P450 (CYP)-dependent phase I and conjugation or phase II reactions], drug metabolising enzymes are also present at other sites. Depending on the particular drug and enzymes involved, these extrahepatic organs and/or tissues can contribute to the elimination of drugs and, thus, should be considered in any discussion of drug disposition. By the use of relatively new techniques in molecular biology, e.g. immunoblotting with antibodies directed to various CYP isoenzymes, the tissue and organ distribution of these drug metabolising enzymes can be determined. In addition, microsomal and cytosolic enzyme activity and capacity can be directly assessed in vitro by incubation of the enzymes with the drugs of interest. Both approaches have demonstrated the presence of 3 CYP families at different extrahepatic sites, such as the mucosa of the gastrointestinal tract, kidney, lung, brain or skin. Enzymes including epoxide hydrolases, hydrolysing enzymes, glutathione S-transferases, UDP-glucuronosyltransferases, sulphotransferases, N-acetyltransferases, and methyltransferases are discussed. Indirect evidence of extrahepatic drug metabolism can be generated from pharmacokinetic studies whenever total body clearance exceeds liver blood flow, or when severe liver dysfunction or anhepatic conditions do not affect metabolic clearance. Indeed, extrahepatic metabolism has been demonstrated for numerous drugs. Therefore, the metabolic profile and sites of enzymatic reactions for each drug should be determined.
Identification of the pathway of iontophoretic drug delivery: light and ultrastructural studies using mercuric chloride in pigs.	Although electrically assisted transdermal drug delivery has recently achieved a great deal of research attention, the precise anatomical pathway followed by these drugs through the stratum corneum has not been clearly defined. Pigs are an accepted model for studying iontophoretic drug delivery in humans. The purpose of this investigation was to visualize the pathway of ion transport by iontophoresing mercuric chloride. Weanling Yorkshire swine were dosed with 7.4% mercuric chloride in the positive electrode at a current density of 200 microAmp/cm2 applied for 1 hr. Biopsies were immediately taken, exposed to 25% ammonium sulfide vapor to precipitate and localize the mercury, fixed, and processed for light and transmission electron microscopy. The presence of mercury, which appeared as a black precipitate, was confirmed using energy-dispersive X-ray microanalysis. Although some compound penetrated the skin through appendageal pathways, the electron micrographs clearly revealed that mercuric chloride traversed the intact stratum corneum via an intercellular route. Precipitate was also localized in the outer membrane of the mitochondria in the viable epidermal cells, dermal fibroblasts, and capillaries, demonstrating transdermal delivery and systemic exposure to the mercury. These findings have implications for iontophoretic drug delivery, since they allow visualization of the functional "pores" predicted by mathematical models.
The cuticle of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans: a complex collagen structure.	The cuticle of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans forms the barrier between the animal and its environment. In addition to being a protective layer, it is an exoskeleton which is important in maintaining and defining the normal shape of the nematode. The cuticle is an extracellular matrix consisting predominantly of small collagen-like proteins that are extensively crosslinked. Although it also contains other protein and non-protein compounds that undoubtedly play a significant part in its function, the specific role of collagen in cuticle structure and morphology is considered here. The C. elegans genome contains between 50 and 150 collagen genes, most of which are believed to encode cuticular collagens. Mutations that result in cuticular defects and grossly altered body form have been identified in more than 40 genes. Six of these genes are now known to encode cuticular collagens, a finding that confirms the importance of this group of structural proteins to the formation of the cuticle and the role of the cuticle as an exoskeleton in shaping the worm. It is likely that many more of the genes identified by mutations giving altered body form, will be collagen genes. Mutations in the cuticular collagen genes provide a powerful tool for investigating the mechanisms by which this group of proteins interact to form the nematode cuticle.
Molecular cloning of a cDNA encoding a novel fatty acid-binding protein from rat skin.	A novel skin-type fatty acid-binding protein, termed cutaneous(C)-FABP, has been purified from rat skin and a cDNA clone for this protein has been identified. The purified protein had the ability to bind long chain fatty acids like other rat FABPs. The deduced amino acid sequence of the cDNA clone comprises residues yielding a molecular mass for the polypeptide of 15.1 kDa and exhibits around 50% identity to myelin P2 protein, adipocyte FABP and heart FABP. Our results propose that C-FABP is a new member of the FABP family.
Hydrocarbon biosynthesis in Triatoma infestans eggs.	Triatoma infestans eggs are shown to synthesize hydrocarbons. Radio-gas chromatography was used to demonstrate metabolism of [1-14C]propionate into precursor methyl-branched fatty acids and into methyl-branched hydrocarbons in T. infestans eggs. These reactions have not been demonstrated previously in insect eggs. An in vivo study showed that hydrocarbons are also transported to eggs by the hemolymph. Inhibition of hydrocarbon synthesis by sodium trichloroacetate (NaTCA) was correlated with reduced oviposition, reduced hatchability, and reduced insect survival. Scanning electron microscopy showed impoverishment of the eggs' epicuticular waxes following NaTCA treatment.
p53 expression in pseudoepitheliomatous hyperplasia, keratoacanthoma, and squamous cell carcinoma of skin.	Expression of p53 protein has been described in a variety of human malignant tumors. Recent reports have also demonstrated its presence in benign and reactive lesions. The significance of p53 expression is unclear.
Pharmacokinetics of a 14C-labeled phosphorothioate oligonucleotide, ISIS 2105, after intradermal administration to rats.	After intradermal administration of 3.7 mg/kg of 14C-labeled 5'-TTGCTTCCATCTTCCTCGTC-3' (14C-labeled ISIS 2105) to rats, a phosphorothioate oligodeoxynucleotide, absorption was rapid. Approximately 65% of the administered dose was absorbed within 1 hr after the dose and peak blood levels were achieved within 30 min. After the initial rapid phase of absorption, a slower absorption phase ensued that resulted in more than 95% of the dose being cleared from the injection site. Slow metabolism of 14C-labeled ISIS 2105 occurred at the injection site. The rate and characteristics of metabolism in the skin were similar to those observed in other tissues. Once absorbed, the pharmacokinetics, distribution and metabolism of 14C-labeled ISIS 2105 after intradermal administration were comparable to those after an i.v. dose. The distribution and terminal half-lives were 0.5 and 53 hr, respectively. Levels of 14C-labeled ISIS 2105 in the blood were found in the plasma and the drug distributed broadly to all peripheral tissues; the liver, renal cortex and bone marrow accumulated the highest levels of drug. The 14C-labeled ISIS 2105 was eliminated principally by metabolism. Approximately 50% of the dose was found in expired air and 15% and 5% were found in urine and feces, respectively. No intact oligonucleotide was found in urine or feces at any time.
Evidence for decreased androgen 5 alpha-reduction in skin and liver of men with severe acne after 13-cis-retinoic acid treatment.	To investigate the effect of 13-cis-retinoic acid (13-cis-RA) treatment on androgen metabolism in men with severe nodulocystic acne, eight men with severe acne received an oral daily dose of 0.7 mg/kg 13-cis-RA over 3 months. Exploration of androgen metabolism in serum samples, 24-h urine collections, and skin biopsies obtained before and at the end of the treatment revealed no significant alterations in serum levels of either adrenal or gonadal androgens. However, the treatment did induce significant decreases in serum levels of the 5 alpha-reduced androgens: 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone (P < 0.02), androsterone glucosiduronate (P < 0.04), and 5 alpha-androstan-3 alpha, 17 beta-diol glucosiduronate (P < 0.004). Unlike serum, the urinary 5 alpha-reduced metabolites 5 alpha-androstan-3 alpha, 17 beta-diol and androsterone did not vary significantly despite a decrease in the excretion of the latter. Moreover, a marginally significant increase in urinary excretion of etiocholanolone, very similar to the decrease in androsterone excretion, was observed. The ratio of androsterone to etiocholanolone decreased significantly (P < 0.004) after 13-cis-RA therapy and suggested a metabolic deviation from the androgen 5 alpha- to 5 beta-reduction pathway in the liver. The most pronounced effect was observed in skin biopsies, which lost 80% of their ability to form 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone (P < 0.001). It is concluded that 13-cis-RA therapy in men with severe nodulocystic acne did not alter gonadal or adrenal functions, but it did induce 1) a highly significant decrease in 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone formation by skin biopsies; 2) significant decreases in serum 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone, androsterone glucosiduronate, and 5 alpha-androstan-3 alpha, 17 beta-diol glucosiduronate; and, finally, 3) deviation of the liver androgen 5 alpha- to 5 beta-reduction pathway. The effect of 13-cis-RA treatment on severe acne is consistent with the dramatic decrease in androgen 5 alpha-reduction observed mainly in the skin.
Production of 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D3 by perfused pig skin.	Keratinocytes produce large amounts of 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25(OH)2D3) in vitro. 1,25(OH)2D3 is detectable in anephric humans and pigs and can be increased to near-normal levels by vitamin D or 250HD, indicating an extrarenal source. To determine whether the skin is one of these extrarenal sources, we perfused isolated flaps of porcine skin for 8 h with 250HD3 in serum-free medium at 1 ml/min, collecting the venous effluent as 15-min samples. The samples were extracted and the vitamin D metabolites purified by high-performance liquid chromatography and assayed by competitive protein-binding techniques. Production of 1,25(OH)2D3 continued for the duration of the perfusion, tending to increase in the last 2 hours. The amount of 1,25(OH)2D3 produced varied both with time in the same pig skin and between pig skins; maximum production of 1,25(OH)2D3 in these experiments was 8 pg/min. 24,25(OH)2D3 production was higher than 1,25(OH)2D3 production, reaching a maximum rate of 180 pg/min. Considering that the production rate of 1,25(OH)2D3 in humans is 1.25 ng/min and that a 48-cm2 skin flap represents 1/350 the surface area of a human, and assuming that human and pig skin make 1,25(OH)2D3 at comparable rates, one can determine that the skin has the potential to maintain near-normal levels of 1,25(OH)2D3 in the absence of kidneys when provided with adequate substrate.
Congenital nephrotic syndrome of the Finnish type maps to the long arm of chromosome 19.	Congenital nephrotic syndrome of the Finnish type (CNF) is an autosomal recessive disease that is characterized by massive proteinuria and nephrotic syndrome at birth. CNF represents a unique, apparently specific dysfunction of the renal basement membranes, and the estimated incidence of CNF in the isolated population of Finland is 1 in 8,000 newborns. The basic defect is unknown, and no specific biochemical defect or chromosomal aberrations have been described. Here we report the assignment of the CNF locus to 19q12-q13.1 on the basis of linkage analyses in 17 Finnish families. Multipoint analyses and observed recombination events place the CNF locus between multiallelic markers D19S416 and D19S224, and the significant linkage disequilibrium observed suggests that the CNF gene lies in the immediate vicinity of the markers D19S224 and D19S220.
Detection of mutations of the RB1 gene in retinoblastoma patients by using exon-by-exon PCR-SSCP analysis.	Most sporadic cases of retinoblastoma, malignant eye tumor of children, may require the identification of a mutation of the retinoblastoma gene (RB1 gene) for precise genetic counseling. We established a mutation detection system of and screened for the RB1 gene mutation in 24 patients with retinoblastoma--12 bilateral patients and 12 unilateral patients. Mutation analysis was performed by PCR-mediated SSCP analysis in the entire coding region and promoter region, as an initial screening method, followed by direct genomic sequencing. Possible oncogenic mutations were identified in 14 (58%) of 24 tumors, of which 6 were single base substitutions, 4 were small deletions, 3 were small insertions, and 1 was a complex alteration due to deletion-insertion. A constitutional somatic mosaicism was suggested in one bilateral patient. A majority (57%) of mutations were found in E1A binding domains, and all were presumed to truncate the normal gene products. The mutation analysis presented here may provide a basis for the screening system of RB1 gene mutations in retinoblastoma patients.
Wound healing after harvesting of the internal thoracic and the superior and inferior epigastric arteries.	Wound healing of sternal incisions and midline or paramedian abdominal incisions was studied at 2 weeks postoperatively in three groups of dogs. Group 1, 10 dogs, had harvesting of bilateral internal thoracic arteries, superior epigastric arteries, and inferior epigastric arteries. Group 2, 5 dogs, had removal of the same arteries, but the superior and inferior epigastric arteries were harvested through paramedian rather than midline incisions. Group 3, 5 dogs, served as control and had median sternotomies and midline abdominal incisions only. All wounds healed without complication. Wound breaking strength of the skin of the chest incisions was significantly greater (p < 0.05) in the control group (group 3) (52.6 lb) compared with groups 1 (38.0 lb) and 2 (34.8 lb). Wound breaking strength of the skin of the abdominal incisions was significantly greater (p < 0.05) in group 2 (50.4 lb) when paramedian incisions were made compared with group 1 (35.1 lb). Hydroxyproline content was similar for all groups and all incisions. We conclude that abdominal wound breaking strength is significantly greater when paramedian incisions are performed to harvest the inferior epigastric arteries. Harvesting bilateral internal thoracic, superior epigastric, and inferior epigastric arteries may lower sternal wound breaking strength.
Major defect of carbohydrate-deficient-glycoprotein syndrome is not found in the synthesis of dolichyl phosphate or N-acetylglucosaminyl-pyrophosphoryl-dolichol.	The contents of dolichyl phosphate and UDP-N-acetylglucosamine:dolichyl phosphate N-acetylglucosamine 1-phosphate transferase (GlcNAc-1-P transferase) activity in fibroblasts from patients with carbohydrate-deficient-glycoprotein (CDG) syndrome were analyzed. The amount of dolichyl phosphate and GlcNAc-1-P transferase activity in CDG syndrome fibroblasts were similar to those in normal fibroblasts, suggesting that CDG syndrome may not be due to a deficiency of a biosynthetic enzyme for dolichol-oligosaccharide intermediates, but to a metabolic error in assembly of asparagine-linked oligosaccharide.
Transforming growth factor-beta stimulates alpha 2(I) collagen gene expression through a cis-acting element that contains an Sp1-binding site.	Transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-beta) is a strong and rapid inducer of several genes coding for extracellular matrix components, such as type I collagen. We report here that TGF-beta stimulates transcription of the human alpha 2(I) collagen gene (COL1A2) promoter by increasing the affinity of an Sp1-containing protein complex for its cognate DNA-binding site. Cell transfection experiments mapped the TGF-beta-responsive element (TbRE) of the COL1A2 promoter to a 131 bp region that contains at least two cis-acting elements. Insertion of the TbRE upstream of the thymidine kinase promoter conferred TGF-beta inducibility to the otherwise unresponsive thymidine kinase promoter. Footprinting assays revealed that the TbRE contains two neighboring protein-bound sequences, termed Box 3A and Box B. Within Box 3A is an Sp1 recognition sequence whose structural integrity is required for nuclear protein binding in vitro, and for promoter inducibility in vivo. Gel mobility shift assays documented increased binding to the TbRE of nuclear proteins from TGF-beta-treated cells compared with those from TGF-beta-untreated fibroblasts. There was, however, no binding increase with Box 3A alone or with an Sp1 oligonucleotide. Thus, the results strongly suggest a functional interaction between Sp1 and other components of the TbRE complex in mediating TGF-beta stimulation of COL1A2 gene expression.
Boron neutron capture therapy of malignant melanoma using 10B-paraboronophenylalanine with special reference to evaluation of radiation dose and damage to the normal skin.	A treatment regimen for boron neutron capture therapy of malignant melanomas is described using 10B-paraboronophenylalanine as the tumor-targeting compound. As a therapeutic dose, we adopted the maximum tolerable dose for the skin regardless of tumor 10B concentration. In practice, the maximum neutron fluence should be decided prior to starting irradiation. For this purpose, the kinetics of the concentration of 10B in the blood and skin and the skin-to-blood ratios were analyzed in the six patients who received 170 mg/kg of the compound intravenously, and skin concentrations during irradiation were predicted using a standard skin factor curve. This yields a skin concentration at time T based on the blood concentration at time 0. We calculated the maximum tolerable fluence yielding but not exceeding 18 RBE-Gy by assuming that the RBE of 14N(n,p)14C and 10B(n, alpha)7Li reaction for skin damage is 2.5. Actual skin reactions in three of five patients treated with the therapy were, as predicted, within tolerable limits, and we were able to obtain complete tumor regression in four cases. The results indicate that application of our logical approach will be useful for subsequent cases and further development of this therapy.
Environmental contamination and assessment of exposure to antineoplastic agents by determination of cyclophosphamide in urine of exposed pharmacy technicians: is skin absorption an important exposure route?	In the Netherlands, special guidelines and safety precautions were introduced about 10 y ago for preparation and administration of antineoplastic agents. However, little is known about the effectiveness of these measures. In this study, occupational exposure to antineoplastic agents of nine pharmacy technicians who were involved in drug preparation was investigated. Cyclophosphamide, 5-fluorouracil, and methotrexate accounted for 95% of the antineoplastic agents prepared; therefore, the presence of these compounds was monitored. During preparation, cyclophosphamide was detected in the air of the work environment (< 0.04-10.1 micrograms/m3). Contamination of and permeation through latex gloves were found for each of the three compounds. The uptake of cyclophosphamide was assessed by the determination of cyclophosphamide in urine. The drug was found in urine samples of six pharmacy technicians, including three persons who were not directly involved in the preparation of cyclophosphamide. The amounts excreted ranged from 0.2 to 19.4 micrograms/24 h. The results strongly suggest that inhalation is of minor importance for internal exposure, compared with other, presumably dermal, routes.
Epidermal expression of transforming growth factor-alpha in transgenic mice: induction of spontaneous and 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate-induced papillomas via a mechanism independent of Ha-ras activation or overexpression.	To assess the requirements for papilloma formation in transgenic mice that overexpress transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha) in the epidermis (HK1.TGF alpha), we tested the sensitivity of HK1.TGF alpha mice to tumor promotion with 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) and analyzed the resultant papillomas for synergic c-Ha-ras activation and overexpression. We observed that HK1.TGF alpha mice were highly sensitive to TPA promotion, exhibiting multiple papillomas as early as the third week of treatment. After 60 wk of promotion, malignant conversion was not observed and tumors regressed upon removal of the TPA promotion stimulus. Most of the TPA-induced papillomas did not have detectable c-Ha-ras mutations at codons 12, 13, or 61, but three papillomas arising after long-term TPA promotion (5-7 mo) exhibited c-Ha-ras activation at codon 61 (A-->T and A-->G). Conversely, spontaneous papillomas arising without TPA promotion, including persisting autonomous papillomas, were all negative for activating c-Ha-ras mutations. Both spontaneous and TPA-induced HK1.TGF alpha papillomas expressed c-Ha-ras message levels similar to those in normal, nontransgenic epidermis or HK1.TGF alpha hyperplastic epidermis. These data demonstrate that TGF-alpha overexpression can be an initiating event for TPA promotion, that papillomatogenesis in HK1.TGF alpha mice proceeds frequently via a pathway independent of Ha-ras activation or overexpression, and, thus, that other events are required for autonomous growth and malignant conversion.
In situ detection of cytokine messenger RNAs in the eccrine sweat gland of normal human skin.	Human sweat and eccrine sweat glands contained the multifunctional polypeptide cytokines, interleukin-1 alpha and beta (IL-1 alpha and beta). To determine whether the sweat gland itself is an actual site of transcription for cytokines we performed in situ hybridization on histologic sections of normal human skin. In this report we show that the mRNAs encoding the cytokines IL-1 alpha, IL-1 beta, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) are present in normal human skin eccrine sweat gland duct and secretory coil epithelium. These results suggest that in vivo the sweat gland is a production site for cytokine polypeptides and may contribute to the exceedingly large quantities of these cytokine proteins found in the epidermis.
Interaction of LDL and Lp[a] with human skin fibroblasts.	We have studied the interaction of LDL and Lp[a] with fibroblasts. Our studies suggest that Lp[a] does not effectively compete with LDL for binding to the LDL receptor, and does not efficiently suppress the activity of the intracellular enzyme HMG-CoA reductase. However, Lp[a-], formed by reduction of the disulfide bond between apo[a] and apoB, behaves much like homologous LDL, whether or not apo[a] is removed from the mixture, and in spite of the fact that one or more apoB disulfides may also have been cleaved. In our studies we also noted that Lp[a] often enhanced binding of 125I-LDL by fibroblasts. Further investigation has suggested that this interaction is time-dependent. Experiments in receptor-negative fibroblasts indicate that the enhancement is not related to the presence of the LDL receptor; however, it is inhibited by the removal of calcium from the medium. The presence of sialic acid at millimolar concentrations in the medium inhibits much of the Lp[a]-enhanced binding of 125I-LDL to the cells. These studies suggest that Lp[] may in some way enhance LDL binding to cells, perhaps via interaction with cell surface glycosaminoglycans or proteoglycans or with collagen.
The interaction of Lp(a) with normal and LDL-receptor-deficient human skin fibroblasts.	The role of LDL receptors in the in vivo catabolism of Lp(a) is still a matter of controversy. Since Lp(a) binds LDL with high affinity, it was essential for this study to separate Lp(a) quantitatively from all other apo-B and apo-E-containing lipoproteins. This was achieved by the addition of proline as a dissociating agent to all buffers during Lp(a) preparation. Normal human skin fibroblasts pre-incubated with 40 mg/ml of Lp(a) downregulated cholesterol biosynthesis by approx. 35%; the same amount of LDL caused a 90% reduction. Cholesterol biosynthesis of LDL-receptor-deficient fibroblasts was not affected at all by LDL, yet Lp(a) exhibited a similar effect as in normal fibroblasts (32% reduction). An LDL-receptor-independent uptake of Lp(a) into fibroblasts must therefore be postulated. We also studied the degradation of Lp(a) in normal fibroblasts in comparison with LDL. Pure Lp(a) was only slightly degraded in relation to LDL. If fibroblasts were pre-incubated with small amounts of LDL, Lp(a) degradation was enhanced by a factor of 3-5. This effect was even more pronounced in fibroblasts pre-incubated with mevinolin. Thus the LDL receptor may play an indirect role in Lp(a) catabolism. The significance of these findings for the in vivo metabolism of Lp(a) remains to be established.
Accumulation of mtDNA with a mutation at position 3271 in tRNA(Leu)(UUR) gene introduced from a MELAS patient to HeLa cells lacking mtDNA results in progressive inhibition of mitochondrial respiratory function.	A new mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutation of tRNA(Leu)(UUR) at nucleotide position 3271 (MELAS3271) was determined to be involved in the pathogenic process of mitochondrial diseases MELAS (mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes) using intercellular transfer of patient-derived mtDNA to mtDNA-less HeLa cells (rho 0 HeLa cells). Cybrid clones containing imported mtDNA exclusively from a MELAS patient with MELAS3271 mtDNA were isolated, and the influence of MELAS3271 mtDNA on mitochondrial translation activity and mitochondrial respiratory complex I enzyme activity were examined. Accumulation of more than 87% MELAS3271 mutant mtDNA in the cybrid clones induced both low complex I activity and abnormal mtDNA-encoded polypeptide synthesis including at least complex I subunit ND6. suggesting involvement of the new MELAS-associated mutation in the pathogenesis.
Androgen receptor gene mutation in male breast cancer.	We screened thirteen male breast cancers for the presence of germline mutations in exons 2 and 3 encoding the DNA-binding domain of the androgen receptor. These two exons were amplified from genomic DNA extracted from patients' white blood cells. In one of these thirteen patients, single strand conformation polymorphism and direct sequencing detected a guanine-adenine point mutation at nucleotide 2185 that changes Arg608 into Lys in a highly conserved region of the second zinc finger of the androgen receptor. This mutation occurred in a 38 year old man with partial androgen insensitivity syndrome and normal androgen-binding capacity in cultured genital skin fibroblasts. To our knowledge, only one germline Arg to Gln androgen receptor gene mutation has been previously reported at position 607 in male breast cancer. This androgen receptor mutation along with the Arg608 into Lys mutation we describe, suggests that this genetic abnormality is not fortuitous: a decrease in androgen action within the breast cells could account for the development of male breast cancer by the loss of a protective effect of androgens on these cells. Activation of estrogen regulated genes by the change of DNA-binding characteristics of the mutant androgen receptor cannot, however, be ruled out.
Mutation screening of complete fibrillin-1 coding sequence: report of five new mutations, including two in 8-cysteine domains.	Marfan syndrome (MFS) is an autosomal dominantly inherited connective tissue disorder characterized by cardiovascular, ocular and skeletal manifestations. Previously, mutations in the fibrillin-1 gene on chromosome 15 (FBN1) have been reported to cause MFS. We have now screened 44 probands with MFS or related phenotypes for alterations in the entire fibrillin coding sequence (9.3 kb) by single strand conformation analysis. We report four unique mutations in the fibrillin gene of unrelated MFS patients. One is a 17 bp deletion and three are missense mutations, two of which involve 8-cysteine motifs. Another missense mutation was found in two unrelated individuals with annuloaortic ectasia but was also present in unaffected relatives and controls from various ethnic backgrounds. By using allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization, we screened 65 unrelated MFS patients, 29 patients with related phenotypes and 84 control individuals for these mutations as well as for a previously reported mutation and two polymorphisms. Our results suggest that most MFS families carry unique mutations and that the fibrillin genotype is not the sole determinant of the connective tissue phenotype.
Reciprocity between tissue calmodulin and cAMP levels: modulation by excess zinc.	Signal transduction of many intracellular events is initiated by a minute influx of calcium ions into the cells, resulting in the formation of calcium-calmodulin complex and cAMP. Because zinc appears to have an inhibitory effect on a number of tissue reactions, it is postulated that this occurs through modulation of intracellular calcium influx. To test the hypothesis that the inhibitory effects of zinc are mediated through the calcium-calmodulin-cAMP pathway, zinc was administered by various routes to five groups of nude mice (control, intragastric, intraperitoneal, intradermal and oral groups), and calmodulin and cAMP concentrations were measured in the cytosol of epidermal cells. Calmodulin levels decreased significantly in the groups given intraperitoneal zinc (P < 0.025) and intradermal zinc (P < 0.001) injections. Significant elevations of cAMP levels were noted with intradermal zinc (P < 0.025). Overall, the relationship between calmodulin and cAMP appeared to be inversely logarithmic, with the lowest calmodulin levels associated with the highest cAMP concentrations. In addition, there was a significant trend towards a smaller calmodulin/cAMP ratio in all zinc-treated groups, except the mice fed dietary zinc. These results appear to correlate with tissue zinc levels obtained with these various forms of zinc administration. Our results therefore indicate that there is a reciprocity between epidermal calmodulin and cAMP levels, which may be modulated by external factors such as zinc.
Ibuprofen epidermal levels after topical application in vitro: effect of formulation, application time, dose variation and occlusion.	The influence of vehicle (two oil-in-water emulsions and two gels, each containing 10% or 5% ibuprofen) application time (0.5, 1, 2 h), applied dose (1.5, 3, 6, 12 mg/cm2), time (24 h after an 0.5 h application time), and occlusion on the epidermal concentration of ibuprofen was investigated. The drug concentration in the epidermis was measured by HPLC. All results were expressed as microgram drug/mg epidermal protein. The application time had no influence on the epidermal drug concentration, whereas the two gel formulations produced concentrations approximately twice those obtained with the emulsions. A significant positive correlation was found between the applied dose and the epidermal concentration for each formulation. After 24 h the amount of drug remaining in the epidermis was low (reduced by factors of 10-20). Occlusion produced higher concentrations, but only with the 2-h application time. The methods are reliable, and useful in ranking vehicles according to their ability to release ibuprofen into the epidermis. Future investigations should explore the relationship between epidermal concentration and anti-inflammatory efficacy in vivo.
Evaluation of local anesthesia provided by transdermal patches containing different formulations of tetracaine.	Topical formulations of tetracaine in vehicles of propylene glycol and saline are tested on human volunteers with standard occlusive, adhesive, transdermal patches. The effects of formulation composition, dose, and onset time are investigated. Dose-response studies indicate that the optimum formulation for the diffusion of tetracaine in vivo is 60% free base and 40% acid salt (w/w) in 40% propylene glycol and 60% saline (v/v). A concentration of 0.3 M [8.3% (w/v)] tetracaine is sufficient to reach the dose plateau. Time-response studies indicate that high concentrations of tetracaine in the optimum formulation [1.1 and 1.8 M, 30 and 50% (w/v), respectively] can produce statistically significant analgesia relative to a placebo after 45 min. Comparison of these in vivo data with earlier in vitro data indicate that the optimum formulation with regard to clinical studies is identical to that for in vitro diffusion through hairless mouse skin [60% free base and 40% acid salt (w/w) in 40% propylene glycol and 60% saline].
Iontophoresis of hydrocortisone across hairless mouse skin: investigation of skin alteration.	The effects of hydration, sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), and electric current on the permeability of hairless mouse skin was examined in vitro with a neutral solute, hydrocortisone, as a permeant. The study was carried out by pretreating the skin with (1) normal saline, (2) 0.06% SDS in 0.3% NaCl, (3) normal saline plus 0.5 mA anodic current, and (4) 0.06% SDS in 0.3% NaCl plus 0.5 mA anodic current for 8 h. The pretreated skin was then immediately used for passive or anodic transport of hydrocortisone. Results show that pretreatment of skin with either normal saline or 0.06% SDS resulted in a slightly increased passive penetration of hydrocortisone with a prolonged lag time, but did not significantly change the anodic transport of hydrocortisone. There was no significant difference between normal saline pretreatment and 0.06% SDS pretreatment, indicating that 0.06% SDS did not irreversibly alter the permeability of skin other than its hydration effect. Pretreatment of skin with current, and especially with current combined with 0.06% SDS, yielded a significant increase in both passive and anodic transport of hydrocortisone with reduced lag time, indicating that alteration of the skin structure had occurred. The reversibility of this alteration depends on the duration of exposure of the skin to the electric field. Short-term exposure (< 2 h) does not appear to change the permeability of skin in any significant way; long-term exposure may lead to slowly reversible or irreversible skin alteration.
Concentration of orally administered antimicrobial agent in burn scar tissue, granulation tissue, normal skin and serum.	Tissue and serum concentrations of orally administered ofloxacin were measured using high performance liquid chromatography. From 56 patients who received 200 mg of ofloxacin prior to surgery, 103 specimens including 48 of serum, 32 of scar tissue, 18 of normal skin and five of granulation tissue were harvested between 2 and 3 h after administration. The ofloxacin values were 1798.6 +/- 1125.5 ng/g in the granulation tissue followed by 1525.5 +/- 1002.7 ng/ml in the serum, 1450.0 +/- 1011.3 ng/g in the scar tissue and 1092.8 +/- 593.3 ng/g in normal skin. There was no statistically significant difference between the ofloxacin concentrations in those four specimens by ANOVA test.
p53 immunoreactivity in cutaneous PUVA tumors is similar to that in other non-melanoma skin neoplasms.	Expression of the p53 tumor suppressor gene product was determined in keratoses and skin cancers associated with psoralen photochemotherapy (PUVA). An immunocytochemical study was employed using CM-1 (polyclonal) and Do-1 (monoclonal) antibodies to human wild-type p53. Thirty-two cutaneous lesions and 20 perilesional PUVA-irradiated skin biopsies were examined from 7 patients, all of whom had received more than 200 PUVA treatments and/or a cumulative UVA dose of greater than 1000J/cm2 as treatment for widespread plaque psoriasis. p53 immunoreactivity was seen in 7 of 15 squamous cell carcinomas (46.7%), 5 of 8 dysplastic keratoses (62.5%) and in no basal cell carcinomas or benign keratoses. The overall prevalence of p53 immunoreactivity in 46.2% of malignant or dysplastic PUVA-associated skin tumors is similar to that previously found by our group in comparable skin tumors from the general population. Most patients with lesions showing positive p53 immunoreactivity had, however, been exposed to additional risk factors before receiving PUVA therapy. p53 gene sequencing of PUVA-associated non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) may clarify whether p53 mutation contributes to the development of these tumors and whether this relates to PUVA therapy or prior carcinogen exposure.
Human papillomavirus DNA in the dermis of condyloma acuminatum.	Condyloma acuminatum (CA) has high recurrence rates after local treatments. Why this lesion is difficult to eradicate is unclear. One possible explanation for recurrence after superficial destructive therapy is the presence of residual human papillomavirus (HPV) in the superficial dermis beneath the treated epidermis. Thirteen samples of CA were excised from 13 patients. Thirteen samples of basal cell carcinoma (BCC) were studied for purposes of control. Epidermis was separated from dermis by treatment with sodium bromide. DNA was extracted from both tissues and used sodium bromide solution and amplified for the presence of HPV DNA using the polymerase chain reaction. HPV DNA was detected in the epidermis of 11 samples of CA. HPV type 6 was seen in 7 specimens; HPV type 11, in 4. HPV DNA was found in the dermis of 3 specimens of CA; type 6 in 2 and type 11 in 1. Two samples were excluded because of contamination of the sodium bromide solution by HPV. HPV DNA was not detected in tissue samples from BCC. The presence of HPV DNA in the dermis of some condylomata may explain recurrence in sporadic cases.
Methodological studies on estimating the loss of sodium, potassium, calcium and magnesium exemplified by a 10-km run]	An estimation of the electrolytic losses through the skin was evaluated in a run over a distance of 10 km on a 400 m track. Na, K, Ca and Mg excreted by the skin were collected in standardised clothes and thereafter washed out. The remaining electrolytes on the skin were collected by washing the body with deionized water. In addition the concentrations of hormones and metabolites in blood before and after the race were measured. Mean ambient temperature and relative humidity amounted to 21 degrees C and 35%, respectively. The mean performance was 40.5 min. and the average body weight loss was 1.45 kg (1.95% of body weight). The only significant changes in the serum concentrations were the increases of free fatty acids and glycerol. This can be explained, together with a slight increase of glucose and a decrease of insulin, by a higher sympathoadrenergic activity. In the mean 20 mg calcium, 5 mg magnesium, 200 mg potassium and 800 mg sodium were lost by the skin per kg body weight loss. These values compared well with corresponding data found in literature. The described method can therefore be proposed for further experiments.
Fluorescence-based diagnosis of lipid storage diseases by analysis of the culture medium of skin fibroblasts.	Glycosphingolipids, labeled with the fluorescent probe lissamine rhodamine were administered to skin fibroblasts in culture and were hydrolyzed in the intact cells to the corresponding lissamine rhodamine ceramide (N-acylsphingosine). This fluorescent ceramide was converted in the intact cells to the corresponding sphingomyelin which was secreted into the culture medium. In comparison, ceramide is not formed in cells derived from patients with lipid storage diseases, because of deficiencies in lysosomal glycolipid hydrolases. Consequently, fluorescent sphingomyelin was absent from the culture medium or present in considerably reduced quantities. This provided a procedure for diagnosing lipidoses, by analyzing the lissamine rhodamine sphingomyelin content in the culture medium, while maintaining the cells intact.
Permeabilities of alkyl p-aminobenzoates through living skin equivalent and cadaver skin.	The in vitro permeabilities of alkyl p-aminobenzoates through living skin equivalent (LSE) and cadaver skin were compared. Methyl, ethyl, and butyl p-aminobenzoates were used as model compounds. The permeabilities of these compounds through LSE and cadaver skin from an aqueous drug suspension were determined with a flow-through diffusion cell. The permeability coefficients of these esters in LSE were an order of magnitude higher than in cadaver skin. This was primarily because of low resistances offered by the outermost layer (i.e., stratum corneum) of LSE. In the case of cadaver skin, the permeability coefficient increased as the carbon chain length increased, whereas no appreciable change in the permeability coefficients of these esters in LSE was observed. These results clearly suggest that the LSE membrane offered very little resistance as opposed to cadaver skin. Therefore, the LSE membrane may not quantitatively represent a good human skin model for evaluating skin permeation of a drug from topical or transdermal formulations.
Tyrosine dephosphorylation of nuclear proteins mimics transforming growth factor beta 1 stimulation of alpha 2(I) collagen gene expression.	Transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-beta 1) exerts a positive effect on the transcription of genes coding for several extracellular matrix-related products, including collagen I. We have previously identified a strong TGF-beta 1-responsive element (TbRE) in the upstream promoter sequence of the alpha 2(I) collagen (COL1A2) gene. Our experiments have shown that TGF-beta 1 stimulates COL1A2 transcription by increasing binding of an Sp1-containing complex (TbRC) to the TbRE. They have also suggested that the change occurs via posttranslational modification of a protein(s) directly or indirectly interacting with Sp1. Here, we provide evidence showing that tyrosine dephosphorylation of nuclear proteins mimics the stimulation of COL1A2 transcription by the TGF-beta 1-activated signaling pathway. Preincubation of nuclear extracts with protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTPase) but not with protein phosphatase type 2A (PP2A), a serine/threonine phosphatase, enhanced binding of the TbRC to the same degree as culturing cells in TGF-beta 1. Consistent with these in vitro findings, genistein, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, led to markedly increased COL1A2 gene expression, whereas sodium orthovanadate, a tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor, decreased it substantially. These results were supported by transfection experiments showing that genistein and sodium orthovanadate have opposite effects on TbRE-mediated transcription. Moreover, nuclear proteins isolated from genistein-treated cells were found to interact with the TbRE significantly more than those from untreated cells. Furthermore, pretreatment of cells with sodium orthovanadate virtually abrogated nuclear protein binding to the TbRE, but not to a neighboring cis-acting element unresponsive to TGF-beta 1. The results of this study, therefore, provide the first correlation between tyrosine dephosphorylation, increased binding of a transcriptional complex, and TGF-beta 1 stimulation of gene expression.
Histological and immunohistochemical study of idiopathic epiretinal membrane.	We used electron microscopy and light-microscopic immunohistochemistry of cellular and extracellular markers to characterize the cellular and extracellular components of 15 surgically resected idiopathic epiretinal membranes (IEMs). Ten specimens from the eyes with posterior vitreous detachment (PVD) consisted of inner limiting membrane, collagen layer and a flattened cell layer. Six out of the 10 specimens were also examined immunohistochemically, and fibronectin and type I, II, III and IV collagens were identified in a characteristic lamellar construct in the IEMs. On the other hand, 5 specimens obtained from the eyes without PVD consisted mainly of a thick layer of collagen fibrils with or without a flattened cell layer. Two of the 5 specimens were also examined immunohistochemically, and the collagen fibrils in the specimens were identified as type II collagen. Glial cells (glial fibrillary acidic protein-immunoreactive cells) were also identified in 3 specimens. These results indicate that there are some variations in the IEMs.
Ultrastructure of the contrasting types of keratinization seen in the tail epidermis of the laboratory mouse Mus musculus.	The mouse tail epidermis undergoes contrasting forms of keratinization. Around the hair follicle there is a granular layer containing keratohyalin granules, and nuclei are absent from the horny layer. In the scale regions keratohyalin is not formed and nuclear remnants are retained in the horny cells as in parakeratosis generally. These findings from light microscopy were confirmed by transmission electron microscopy. The complete breakdown of organelles in the follicular regions contrastred with the retention of effete nuclei in the scales. Some of these nuclear remnants were pyknotic as in abnormal human parakeratosis, but most were further degraded with loss of nuclear membranes. In the boundary zone between the follicular and scale regions the epidermal cells had a few small keratohyalin granules and also showed incomplete degradation of nuclear remnants in the horny cells. The change from living epidermal cells to dead keratinized cells was abrupt in both the follicular and scale regions. In both sites the plasma membranes of the horny cells were thickened and there was a cytoplasmic meshwork of microfibrils in the cells.
Male pseudohermaphroditism: diagnosis in cell culture.	Testicular feminization is a classic form of complete male pseudohermaphroditism. The individuals have a normal XY karyotype but unambiguously female external genitalia. They have congenital complete insensitivity to androgen due to an X-linked mutation. In four patients (from tow families with several affected members) with the typical phenotype of testicular feminization, a severe deficit of specific androgen-binding activity was detected in cultured fibroblasts from labium majus skin. Measurement of this activity in genital skin fibroblasts improves the differential diagnosis in patients with complete or imcomplete male pseudohermaphroditism before puberty.
In vitro screening of biochemical activity of folic acid antagonists in skin.	Dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) inhibitors, which differ from the classical folate antagonists in physicochemical and pharmacologic parameters such as lipid solubility and mechanisms of cellular transport, were screened for DHFR inhibitory activity and biologic activity in newborn rat skin. The most effective drugs from this screen were tested for their effects on de novo DNA synthesis in psoriatic epidermis in vitro. Of the 24 compounds studied, methotrexate (MTX) was the most potent inhibitor of rat skin DHFR (I50=8.6 X 10(-9) M). Methotrexate-dimethylester, methasquin-diethylester, DDEP (2,4-diamino-5-(3',4'-dichlorophenyl)-6-ethylprimidine), and Baker's triazine antifolate (NSC 139105), while less effective than MTX as DHFR inhibitors, were more effective than MTX as inhibitors of de novo DNA synthesis in rat skin in vitro. Baker's antifolate was the only compound tested which was considerably more effective than MTX as an inhibitor of de novo DNA synthesis in psoriatic epidermis in vitro.
Decreased DNA repair but normal apoptosis in ultraviolet-irradiated skin of p53-transgenic mice.	p53 tumor suppressor plays a vital role in the cellular responses to genotoxic stress. It is believed that p53 regulates the cell cycle by activating the G1 checkpoint after exposure to agents like ionizing radiation, ultraviolet (UV) radiation, or genotoxic chemicals. Recently, it is conjectured that p53 may have additional functions in DNA repair and apoptosis. Previously, we demonstrated that p53-transgenic mice that carry mutant alleles of a p53 gene developed twice as many skin tumors as control mice after UV exposure. To elucidate the molecular mechanisms of mutant p53 in skin cancers, we studied DNA repair efficiency and the rate of apoptosis in murine keratinocytes after UV irradiation. In this report, we show that mutant p53-transgenic mouse skin has reduced repair of UV-induced DNA damage in both in vivo and in vitro radioimmunoassays. In control mice, DNA repair is associated with increased amounts of wild-type P53 protein. Unexpectedly, mutant p53-transgenic mice had slightly increased apoptosis after UV irradiation, suggesting that the wild-type p53 protein in the cells still functions in inducing apoptosis, or that this cell death results from p53-independent mechanisms. These results suggest that mutant p53 interferes with wild-type p53 in the repair of UV-induced DNA damage but not in apoptosis.
Reduced epidermal growth factor receptor expression in hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia and Tabby mice.	Patients with hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia (HED) and Tabby (Ta) mice lack sweat glands and there is compelling evidence that these phenotypes are caused by mutations in the same highly conserved but unidentified X-linked gene. Previous studies showed that exogenous epidermal growth factor (EGF) reversed the Ta phenotype but the EGF status in HED patients has not been studied at all. Studies reported herein investigated the hypothesis that the EGF signaling pathway is involved in HED/Ta. Fibroblasts from HED patients had a two- to eightfold decrease in binding capacity for (125)I-labeled EGF, a decreased expression of the immunoreactive 170-kD EGF receptor (EGFR) protein, and a corresponding reduction in EGFR mRNA. Reduced expression of the EGFR also was observed in Ta fibroblasts and liver membranes. Other aspects of the EGF signaling pathway, including EGF concentration in urine and plasma, were normal in both HED patients and Ta mice. We propose that a decreased expression of the EGFR plays a causal role in the HED/Ta phenotype.
Molecular cloning of a novel thyroid hormone-responsive gene, ZAKI-4, in human skin fibroblasts.	Utilizing a method called "differential display of mRNAs by means of polymerase chain reaction", the cDNA fragment of a thyroid hormone-responsive gene ZAKI-4 was cloned from cultured human skin fibroblasts. Northern blot analysis revealed that there were two ZAKI-4 mRNA species (3.4 and 1.4 kilobases (kb)), and they were up-regulated by a physiological concentration of triiodothyronine (T3). This T3 effect was abolished by the treatment with cycloheximide, indicating the possibility that gene ZAKI-4 is regulated by T3 in an indirect fashion, through an intermediate product of T3, rather directly by T3 itself. No effect of T3 on ZAKI-4 mRNA stability suggested that T3 induces the mRNA at the transcriptional level. Rapid amplification of cDNA ends confirmed the presence of two mRNA species. ZAKI-4 mRNA was detected in heart, brain, liver, and skeletal muscle but not in placenta, lung, kidney and pancreas. In skin fibroblasts and skeletal muscle, 3.4-kb mRNA was the major species, whereas 1.4-kb mRNA was dominant in heart, brain, and liver. The sequence analysis suggested that the two mRNA species arise from alternative polyadenylation and code a single protein of 192 amino acids. No homologous protein sequence was found in a data base. Elucidation of the function of ZAKI-4 gene product will provide new insights into an important role of T3 in various organs.
Fluxes of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotides through mitochondrial membranes in human cultured cells.	We report on the loss of mitochondrial nicotinamide adenine dinucleotides in human cultured cells along with cell culture and acidification of the culture medium. This was established both by the direct measurement of the decrease in the mitochondrial NAD content and by the alteration of the oxidative properties of the mitochondria. In situ, this loss could be reversed in less than 2 h by changing the culture medium or by readjusting the pH of the medium at physiological pH values. By studying the oxidative properties of intact, but NAD-depleted, mitochondria in digitonin-permeabilized cells, we found that a rapid influx of NAD could replenish the mitochondrial NAD pool. This allowed the restoration of an active NAD+-dependent substrate oxidation. Depletion of mitochondrial NAD in cells grown under quiescent conditions was further confirmed by fluorimetric measurement of mitochondrial NAD, as was the influx of NAD+ into the mitochondrial matrix. These data constitute the first evidence of rapid fluxes of NAD through mitochondrial membranes in animal cells. They also point to the possible confusion between a loss of mitochondrial NAD and a defect of respiratory chain complex I in the context of screening procedures for respiratory chain disorder in human.
Fate of cationic liposomes and their complex with oligonucleotide in vivo.	The present studies describe the biodistribution of cationic liposomes and cationic liposome/oligonucleotide complex following intravenous injection into mice via the tail vein. (111)In-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid stearylamide ((111)In-DTPA-SA) was used as a lipid-phase radiolabel. Inclusion of up to 5 mol% DTPA-SA in liposomes composed of 3beta-(N-(N',N'-dimethylaminoethane)carbamoyl)cholesterol (DC-Chol) and dioleoylphosphatidylethanolamine (DOPE) did not influence liposome formation or size, nor the binding/uptake or fusion of the cationic liposomes with CHO cells in vitro. Moreover, nuclear delivery of oligonucleotide to CHO cells was unaffected by the probe. The biodistribution of liposomes with increasing concentration of DC-Chol (1:4-4:1, DC-Chol/DOPE, mol/mol) at 24 h post-injection revealed no dependence on lipid composition. Uptake was primarily by liver, and accumulation in spleen and skin was also observed. Comparatively little accumulation occurred in lung. Clearance of injected liposomes by liver was very rapid (approximately 84.5% of the injected dose by 7.5 h post-injection). Liposome uptake by liver and spleen were equally efficient in the dose range of 3.33 to 33.33 mg/kg body weight, yet possible saturation of liver uptake at a dose of 66.80 mg/kg may have allowed for increased spleen accumulation. Preincubation of cationic liposomes with phosphorothioate oligonucleotide induced a dramatic yet transient accumulation of the lipid in lung which gradually redistributed to liver. Similar results were observed when monitoring iodinated oligonucleotide in the complex. Immuno-histochemical studies revealed large aggregates of oligonucleotide within pulmonary capillaries at 15 min post-injection, suggesting the early accumulation in lung was due to embolism. Immuno-histochemical studies further revealed labeled oligonucleotide to be localized primarily to Kupffer cells at 24 h post-injection. Immuno-electron microscopy revealed localization of oligonucleotide primarily to the lumen of pulmonary capillaries at 15 min post-injection. Immuno-electron microscopy revealed localization of oligonucleotide primarily to the lumen of pulmonary capillaries at 15 min post-injection, and to phagocytic vacuoles of Kupffer cells at 24 h post-injection. By these methods, nuclear delivery of oligonucleotide in vivo was not observed. Increasing concentration of mouse serum inhibited cellular binding/uptake of cationic liposomes in vitro, without or with complexed oligonucleotide. We therefore postulate that interaction with plasma components, including opsonin(s), inhibits cellular uptake of the injected liposomes as well as the liposome/oligonucleotide complex, and mediates rapid uptake by Kupffer cells of the liver. These results are relevant to the design of cationic liposomes for efficient delivery of nucleic acid in vivo.
Bradykinin induces tyrosine phosphorylation in human foreskin fibroblasts and 293 cells transfected with rat B2 kinin receptor.	The intracellular effects of bradykinin are mediated through the recently cloned B2 kinin receptor which belongs to the superfamily of receptors with seven transmembrane domains. The molecular events which transduce the bradykinin signal on the post-receptor level are not understood in detail. We studied whether in human foreskin fibroblasts bradykinin treatment induces tyrosine phosphorylation of cellular proteins. Using phosphotyrosine antibodies we detected a bradykinin-dependent phosphorylation of a group of proteins of about 130 kDa and an additional signal around 70kDa after starvation of cells. The effect evoked by 10 nM bradykinin was rapid (2 min) and it was partially reduced by the B2-kinin-receptor antagonist Hoe 140 which was shown to be a weak inducer of tyrosine phosphorylation. The bradykinin-mediated tyrosine phosphorylation events were reproduced in human embryonal kidney 293 fibroblasts which were transiently transfected with the rat B2 kinin receptor, but they were not observed in untransfected 293 control cells. These data suggest that the B2 kinin-receptor subtype is involved. Upon fractionation of cells the 130kDa protein group was recovered both in the membrane and the cytosolic protein fraction. To assess the specificity of this bradykinin effect we stimulated human foreskin fibroblasts with epidermal growth factor (EGF), platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), insulin-like growth factor (IGF-I) and insulin. While IGF-I, insulin and EGF were almost ineffective, PDGF stimulated the tyrosine phosphorylation of 130-kDa bands with a similar pattern to that produced by bradykinin. Immunoprecipitation experiments with specific antibodies against potential candidate proteins in the molecular-mass range around 130kDa revealed positive results for the focal adhesion kinase FAK and the p130 Src substrate while negative results were obtained for the GTPase-activating protein GAP, the phospholipase C-gamma1, the Janus kinase JAK-1 and vinculin. The data suggest that the tyrosine phosphorylation of FAK and the pl30 Src substrate might be involved in the B2-kinin-receptor signalling cascade.
Distinct regulatory roles of lymphocyte costimulatory pathways on T helper type-2 mediated autoimmune disease.	We assessed the role of CD40-CD40L, cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL)A4/CD28-B7s, and CD2-CD48/CD58 lymphocyte costimulatory pathways in the development of mercury chloride (HgCl2)-induced autoimmune disease in mice, which is believed to be mediated by T helper (Th) subset Th2. Inhibition of CD40-CD40-L and CTLA4/CD28-B7s interactions by anti-CD40-L antibody and soluble CTLA4-immunoglobulin (Ig) fusion protein, respectively, abrogated the autoimmune disease without affecting interleukin 4 (IL-4) production, showing the importance of physical contact between T and B lymphocytes in the Th2-mediated process. In contrast, two anti-CD2 antibodies that have been shown to induce immunosuppression of Th1-mediated events exacerbated the autoantibody response and augmented IgG1, IgE, and IL-4 production, transforming a mild mesangial glomerulopathy into a severe systemic immune complex disease. These observations demonstrate that manipulation of lymphocyte accessory counterreceptor interactions may affect the course of Th2-associated autoimmune disease and suggest that signals resulting from CD2 engagement play an essential role in the regulation of the Th1-Th2 effector equilibrium.
A multiple-pathway model for the diffusion of drugs in skin.	A mathematical model for the diffusion of drugs in skin is presented. The penetration of the drug by both transcellular and intercellular pathways, as well as its interchange between these pathways, is considered. A pharmacologically motivated asymptotic limit is identified and analysed to obtain, in particular, an analytical expression for the flux of drug to the blood at steady state. Relevant model data is discussed, and some numerical results are also presented.
In vitro degradation of dermal sheep collagen cross-linked using a water-soluble carbodiimide.	Bacterial collagenase was used to study the susceptibility of dermal sheep collagen (DSC) cross-linked with a mixture of the water-soluble carbodiimide 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethyl aminopropyl)-carbodiimide hydrochloride and N-hydroxysuccinimide (E/N-DSC) towards enzymatic degradation. Contrary to non-cross-linked DSC (N-DSC), which had a rate of weight-loss of 18.1% per hour upon degradation, no weight loss was observed for E/N-DSC during a 24 h degradation period. The tensile strength of the E/N-DSC samples decreased during this time period, resulting in partially degraded samples having 80% of the initial tensile strength remaining. The susceptibility of E/N-DSC samples towards enzymatic degradation could be controlled by varying the degree of cross-linking of the samples. Ethylene oxide sterilization of E/N-DSC samples made the material more resistant against degradation compared with non-sterilized E/N-DSC samples. This may be explained by a decrease of the adsorption of bacterial collagenase onto the collagen owing to reaction of ethylene oxide with remaining free amine groups in the collagen matrix.
Endocardial fibroelastosis and primary carnitine deficiency due to a defect in the plasma membrane carnitine transporter.	Endocardial fibroelastosis (EFE) has previously been shown to be associated with tissue carnitine deficiency, although the basis for the carnitine deficiency has not been documented. A patient with the classical features of EFE and marked deficiency of carnitine in heart muscle, skeletal muscle, and liver is presented in this report. Cultured skin fibroblasts from both parents demonstrated levels of carnitine uptake at 50% of the normal rate. This is consistent with heterozygosity for the plasma membrane carnitine transporter defect, indicating likely homozygosity for this recently recognized inborn error in the index patient.
Expression of naked DNA in human, pig, and mouse skin.	The insertion and expression of genes in the epidermis may have a variety of therapeutic uses, including the treatment of skin diseases. Here we show that when both human skin organ cultures and human skin grafts on immunocompromised mice are injected with naked DNA, the DNA is taken-up and genes are expressed in the epidermis in a manner similar to both pig skin injected in vivo and injected pig skin organ cultures. In contrast, DNA injected into mouse skin is expressed not just in the epidermis, but also in the dermis and underlying fat and muscle tissue, and is expressed at lower levels. These findings suggest that genes can be expressed in human skin, after injection of naked DNA, and indicate that pig skin is an appropriate model for the study of DNA uptake and gene expression in human skin. The organ cultures of human and pig skin may be useful in understanding how naked DNA is internalized and expressed after in vivo injections. Additionally, skin obtained from patients with skin disease may be studied as skin grafts and organ cultures to help optimize genetic approaches for the treatment of skin diseases prior to clinical trials, by determining if the injected gene can provide a therapeutic benefit.
Dynamic model of oxygen transport for transcutaneous PO2 analysis.	A dynamic model of oxygen transport through the outer skin layers and a polarographic sensor was developed for the analysis of transcutaneous oxygen tension (tcPO2). It provides a basis for quantifying the factors that determine the relationship between tcPO2 and arterial oxygen tension (PaO2). Model simulations show the importance of stratum papillare metabolic oxygen consumption; the oxygen permeability of the skin relative to that of the sensor membrane and electrolyte; and temperature and the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve. These simulations were consistent with experimental data obtained by using microcathode transcutaneous oxygen sensors, which were placed on the skin of 10 healthy adults. Furthermore, the model indicates that accurate evaluation of arterial oxygen tension by using transcutaneous measurements requires continuous estimation of skin perfusion. On the basis of tcPO2 measurements made during arterial occlusion, simulations indicate that quantitative evaluation of the metabolic oxygen consumption of the viable skin tissues is possible only when the oxygen permeabilities of the skin and sensor are known.
Silicone deposition in reconstruction scars of women with silicone breast implants.	The possible association of silicone breast implants and disease is a subject of continuous debate and concern.
Overview and regional and temporal differences of heavy metals in Arctic whales and ringed seals in the Canadian Arctic.	Concentrations of mercury, cadmium, and other heavy metals in tissues of belugas (Delphinapterus leucas), narwhal (Monodon monoceros) and ringed seals (Phoca hispida) from across the Canadian Arctic are reported. Published and new information is used to provide an overview of metals in tissues of these animals, to delineate the existence of a spatial trend of mercury and cadmium in belugas and ringed seals, and to show a temporal trend is superimposed on the geochemical trend. Mercury concentrations in tissues of Arctic whales and ringed seals were high relative to the Canadian guideline of 0.5 micrograms/g wet wt., for mercury in fish, except in the skin of belugas (0.59-0.78 micrograms/g wet wt.) and flesh of ringed seals (0.39-0.41 micrograms/g wet wt.). In the flesh of belugas (0.94-1.34 micrograms/g wet wt.), and in the liver of ringed seals, tissues that are also consumed by Native people in the Arctic (8.34-27.5 micrograms/g wet wt.), the guideline value was significantly exceeded. Mean lead concentrations in tissues of belugas, narwhal and ringed seals were generally low (0.002-0.028 micrograms/g wet wt.), except in tissues of belugas in the St. Lawrence River (0.10-0.15 micrograms/g wet wt.). The concentration of zinc in the skin of whales was two to three times higher than in other tissues. The concentration of cadmium in organs was highest in narwhal. There was a positive correlation between mercury and selenium in the liver of all three species. The concentration of mercury in tissues of belugas and ringed seals was higher in the western than the eastern Arctic. This was attributed to different natural background concentrations in the western and eastern Arctic of Canada dictated by different geological formations in the two regions. Cadmium concentrations in tissues of belugas and ringed seals were higher in the eastern than the western Arctic. Zinc and copper in some tissues of belugas and ringed seals were also higher in the eastern than the western Arctic. Mercury in the liver of belugas was found to have increased in the western and eastern Arctic over 10-12 years. Mercury in the liver of ringed seals in the western Arctic and narwhal in the eastern Arctic showed similar increases. In recently collected belugas, the rate of accumulation of mercury in the liver was approximately twice that in belugas collected 10-12 years ago. In ringed seals, the rate was three times higher in recent samples compared to 15-20 years ago. There was no temporal change in cadmium levels in tissues of belugas, ringed seals or narwhal.
Studies on the major fucosylated glycoprotein released into the medium by cultured human skin fibroblasts.	Electrophoretic analysis of the proteins synthesized by cultured human skin fibroblasts demonstrated that the major component released into the medium is a high molecular weight fucosylated glycoprotein (MFGP). Gel filtration chromatography under denaturing and reducing conditions indicated that MFGP has a molecular weight of approx. 250,000; but appears to behave as a disulphide-linked dimer when unreduced. MFGP is further distinguished as the major labelled macromolecule  in the medium after incubation of fibroblasts with [35S]cysteine. The role of this glycoprotein is unknown but it bears a striking resemblance to a presumptive  structural glycoprotein recently shown to be secreted by arterial smooth muscle cells in culture, and may also be related to a group of much studied cell surface glycoproteins.
Mutant mtDNA at 1555 A to G in 12S rRNA gene and hypersusceptibility of mitochondrial translation to streptomycin can be co-transferred to rho 0 HeLa cells.	Human skin fibroblast line 95-119, which had been isolated from the mother of a Japanese patient with aminoglycoside-induced deafness and a 1555 A to G mutation at 12S rRNA gene in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), was used to investigate the relationship between the 1555 mtDNA mutation and its pathogenicity. By the intercellular transfer of mtDNA with or without the 1555 mutation to mtDNA-less (rho 0) HeLa cells, we isolated cybrid clones and found that the mitochondrial translation in a cybrid clone repopulated with the homoplasmic 1555 mutation showed the highest susceptibility to streptomycin. These observations suggest that the genotype of the mutant mtDNA and the phenotype of hypersusceptibility to streptomycin observed in 95-119 fibroblasts were co-transferred simultaneously to rho 0 HeLa cells, supporting the idea that the homoplasmic 1555 mtDNA mutation is involved in the pathogenesis leading to aminoglycoside-induced hearing loss.
Comparative carcinogenicity, metabolism, mutagenicity, and DNA binding of 7H-dibenzo[c,g]carbazole and dibenz[a,j]acridine.	Complex mixtures that are produced from the combustion of organic materials have been associated with increased cancer mortality. These mixtures contain homocyclic and heterocyclic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), many of which are known carcinogens. In particular, N-heterocyclic aromatic compounds (NHA) are present in these mixtures. Studies to determine the metabolic activation of these compounds have been undertaken. The purpose of this review is to compare and contrast the metabolic activation and biological effects of two NHA, 7H-dibenzo[c,g]carbazole (DBC) and dibenz[a,j]acridine (DBA), in order to better assess the contribution of NHA to the carcinogenic potency of complex mixtures and to develop biomarkers of the carcinogenic process. DBC has both local and systemic effects in the mouse; it is a potent skin and liver carcinogen following topical application and a lung carcinogen following i.p. application. On the other hand, DBA is a moderate mouse skin carcinogen following topical application and a lung carcinogen following subcutaneous injection. The biological differences for DBC and DBA are reflected in target organ-specific proximate and mutagenic metabolites and DNA adduct patterns.
Urinary output of hydroxylysine glycosides and pyridinium cross-links in detecting rat bone collagen turnover rate.	Glucosylgalactosylhydroxylysine (GGHYL), galactosylhydroxylysine (GHYL), pyridinoline (PYD) and deoxypyridinoline (DPD) were measured in the urine (6 h serial specimens over 96 and 24 h urine specimens for 4 days) collected from four adult Sprague Dawley rats and in the femoral and tibia] bone as well as in the dorsal skin of the same rats. No significant daily variations were found in the urine excretion of GGHYL, GHYL, PYD and DPD but significant diurnal variations. The GGHYL/GHYL ratio in rat urine (0.46 +/- 0.1) reflected neither the bone collagen ratio (1.9 to 2.4) nor the skin collagen ratio (1.22 +/- 1.07), a finding that may reflect GGHYL conversion into GHYL. The content of both pyridinolines was very low in the skin and high in the bone collagen and the urinary PYD/DPD ratio (1.46 +/- 0.15) reflected essentially the bone collagen ratio (0.8-3.0). These results suggest the usefulness of measuring GGHYL, GHYL, PYD and DPD in 24 h urine specimen and, based on the inter-animal variations, the necessity to consider each animal as its own control when bone turnover needs to be monitored.
Genetic control of male cuticular hydrocarbons in Drosophila melanogaster.	7-tricosene (7-T) and 7-pentacosene (7-P) are the two main hydrocarbons on the cuticle of male Drosophila melanogaster. These two substances might play a pheromonal role during courtship behaviour. We investigated the genetic basis of the quantitative polymorphism observed in the production of 7-T and 7-P. Strains of different geographic origin, with males producing either predominantly 7-T or predominantly 7-P, were hybridized with strains carrying genetic markers. We found that chromosome II changes the balance between 7-T and 7-P while chromosome III regulates the overall quantity of both 7-monoenes. We have also characterized and roughly mapped sept and smoq, two genetic factors on chromosome II that act additively on the production of both cuticular hydrocarbons. The genetic control of the variation in 7-T and 7-P varies between D. melanogaster strains and between D. melanogaster and its sibling species D. simulans. The possible evolutionary and physiological causes of this variation as well as its functional implication for courtship behaviour are discussed.
Disturbance of DNA-Synthesis in early psoriasis.	In earlier studies we have shown that there is a significant prolongation of DNA-synthesis time (ts) in the epidermal cells of fully developed psoriatic lesions. The present study shows that this prolongation is to be observed even in very early plaques. The prolongation of ts precedes the development of acanthosis. A dermal infiltrate with increased proliferative activity seems to be a stimulus, in the sense of a Koebner-phenomenon. There is no pronounced prolongation of ts in other acute or chronic inflammatory processes of the skin. The behaviour of the infiltrate in psoriasis is similar to that in allergic patch test reaction. However, the abnormal psoriatic epidermis, with disturbed DNA-synthesis, does not react to the above mentioned infiltrate with a limited hyperproliferation but with the development of a psoriatic plaque. There is obviously congenital disturbances of metabolism within the epidermal cells in psoriasis.
Depletion of the residues of colistin and amoxicillin in turkeys following simultaneous subcutaneous administration.	The tissue distribution and depletion of colistin and amoxicillin were studied in 84 turkeys dosed subcutaneously on 4 consecutive days with a formulation containing the two drugs at 0.2 ml/kg per day, corresponding to 50 000 IU of colistin sulphate/kg and 20 mg of amoxicillin trihydrate/kg. All the turkeys were killed 1-30 days after the final dose and samples of muscle, liver, kidney and cutaneous-subcutaneous tissues and of the injection site were taken for analysis for colistin and amoxicillin residues. The colistin concentrations in the liver (117.5 +/- 26.0 ng/g) and cutaneous-subcutaneous tissue (100.0 +/- 35.6 ng/g) were higher than those in kidney (92.0 +/- 34.4 ng/g) or muscle (67.5 +/- 16.9 ng/g) 1 day after the final dose. The concentration of this drug then increased for 9-14 days, followed by a slow decrease. The antibiotic was still present at low concentrations in the kidneys of all the treated birds and in the livers of two turkeys 30 days after the end of treatment. Amoxicillin concentrations were greatest in muscle (389.2 +/- 195.0 ng/g) and at the injection sites (440.3 +/- 213.9 ng/g) 1 day after treatment ceased, with a subsequent rapid decline. This drug was undetectable in the livers and kidneys by 10 days after dosing ceased.
Proliferation kinetic models for the understanding of the epidermal cell cycle in psoriasis]	Pulse labeling of spontaneous, stimulated or disturbed epidermal cell reinforcements with tritium thymidine offers a simple system to appraise relations of different phases in cell cycle. For example, if the duplication of DNA during the S-phase takes much time, many cells actually synthesizing DNA must be found labeled. Therefore, a high labeling index does not necessarily indicate fast cell cycles (and fast cell cycles do not necessarily produce high labeling indices). The slower S-phases proceed, the less use is for tritium thymidine, offered during the short availability time of a single pulse label. As a result, only few silver grains per cell nucleus are produced in the film emulsion by autoradiography. The typical pattern of this DNA-synthesis would be a high labeling index, combined with a low silver grain index. All other possible combinations and degrees of high, low, normal silver grain indices with high, low or normal labeling indices allow to appraise not only the S-phase duration in comparison with controls, but also in dependence of the other phases, mainly G1, and their duration in cell cycle.
Elastic globes]	After a short compilation of the descriptions of the elastic globes offered in the literature, the results of 446 tissue specimens of five different dermatoses (lichen planus, erythematodes chronicus discoides, tuberculosis cutis luposa, basal cell carcinoma, and nervus cell nevi). An increased appearance of elastic globes was found in erythematodes chronicus discoides and tuberculosis cutis luposa, compared with the other dermatoses. Elastic globes were not limited to special areas of the body, but there were topographical preferences. Elastic globes are common in the aged. The histopathology is descripted.
The gene encoding collagen alpha1(V)(COL5A1) is linked to mixed Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type I/II.	The Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS) is a heterogeneous group of inherited connective tissue disorders in which cutaneous fragility and ligamentous laxity often combine with vascular, gastrointestinal, and skeletal deformities. There is considerable phenotypic overlap between the more common forms of EDS (types I and II), in which specific molecular defects have not yet been identified. Recently, genetic linkage has been demonstrated between the COL5A1 gene, which encodes the alphal chain of type V collagen, and EDS type II in a large British kindred. Using a polymorphic intragenic simple sequence repeat at the COL5A1 locus, we now demonstrate tight linkage to EDS type I/II in a three-generation family, giving a LOD score (log10 of the odds for linkage) of 4.07 at zero recombination. The variation in expression in this family suggests that EDS types I and II are allelic, and the linkage data support the hypothesis that mutation in COL5A1 can cause both phenotypes.
In vivo photoinduction of metallothionein in human skin by ultraviolet irradiation.	The aims of this study were to confirm and substantiate the in vivo cutaneous induction of metallothionein (MT) in human skin by UVR, which we have reported in brief previously, and to make a preliminary attempt to characterize the time course of this phenomenon. Buttock skin in 32 volunteers was irradiated with 2 MED of UVB and biopsies were taken at 24 h from matched non-irradiated and irradiated sites. In the kinetic study, skin biopsies from six volunteers were taken at 0, 2, 8, 24, and 48 h after 2 MED UVB irradiation. MT was immunolocalized in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue with the monoclonal antibody E9 by an indirect immunoperoxidase method. Statistically significant differences between immunocytochemical scores were identified between non-irradiated (NI) and irradiated (I) skin within suprabasal keratinocytes (mean: NI = 1.2, I = 5.1; P = 0.01), superficial dermal fibroblasts (mean: NI = 2, I = 43; P < 0.001), mid-dermal fibroblasts (mean: NI = 0, I = 27; P < 0.001), and deep dermal fibroblasts (mean: NI = 0, I = 11; P < 0.001). In the kinetic study, no consistent rise in MT score with time was observed for the epidermal component. In dermal fibroblasts, however, the first statistically significant rise in immunocytochemically detectable MT was detected at 2 h and this was found to plateau beyond 8 h. These results confirm that ambient levels of UV irradiation are capable of inducing MT in human skin in vivo. Taken together with the relative rapidity of the response, this suggests a physiological photoprotective role for MT in human skin cells. The lack of a kinetic increase in epidermal MT may be due to high basal levels. Induction of MT in dermal fibroblasts may reflect the effects of a diffusible factor released from keratinocytes after UVR.
Skin surface lipids in HIV-positive patients with and without seborrheic dermatitis.	Seborrheic dermatitis (SD) is a frequent complication of infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Most studies examining the cause of SD have concentrated on the roles of Pityrosporum ovale and sebaceous lipids. Previous studies of skin surface lipid from patients with SD have produced conflicting results, with some authors reporting an abnormal lipid composition and others finding little or no abnormality.
In vivo microautoradiography of [3H]1,24(OH)2D3 (tacalcitol) following topical application to normal rats and in vitro metabolism in human keratinocytes.	This study was conducted to investigate the mechanism of topical absorption of [3H]1,24(OH)2D3 (1,24-dihydroxyvitamin D3; tacalcitol) by applying an ointment containing 4 micrograms2/g [3H]1,24(OH)2D3 to the skin of rats using an occlusion method. Microautoradiography of the skin at the application site 1 h after topical treatment showed a high concentration of radiolabel in the stratum corneum, the epidermis and around the hair follicles. Radiolabel was also seen in the epidermis and hair follicle areas 8 h and 24 h after application. The radiolabel was distributed to a minor extent to the subcutaneous fat layer. Microautoradiography showed two routes of purcutaneous absorption of 1,24(OH)2D3: through the stratum corneum and epidermis into the microvessels, and through hair follicle areas into the bloodstream. After topical application of an ointment containing 4 micrograms/g or 40 micrograms/g [3H]1,24(OH)2D3 to the shaved neck skin of rats, the absorption rate, estimated by excretion in the urine and faeces, was about 30% of the total applied radioactivity. The main excretion route after topical application was in the faeces. Furthermore, 1,24(OH)2D3 added to human adult keratinocytes was not metabolized into other compounds, and only the unchanged compound was detected. These findings strongly suggest that 1,24(OH)2D3 distributed into the epidermis acts on epidermal keratinocytes. Topical application of 1,24(OH)2D3 appears to be a possible approach to the treatment of psoriasis and other skin diseases through its action on the 1,25(OH)2D3 receptor, which reportedly plays a very important role in the regulation of proliferation and differentiation of keratinocytes.
Pharmacokinetics of marbofloxacin in dogs after oral and parenteral administration.	Six dogs were treated with a single intravenous (i.v.) dose (2 mg/kg) of marbofloxacin, followed by single oral (p.o.) doses of marbofloxacin at 1, 2 and 4 mg/kg, according to a three-way crossover design. The same experimental design was used for the subcutaneous (s.c.) route. In addition, a long-term trial involving eight dogs given oral doses of marbofloxacin at 2, 4 and 6 mg/kg/day for thirteen weeks was carried out. Plasma and urine samples were collected during the first two trials, plasma and skin samples were collected after the second of these trials. Plasma, urine and skin concentrations of marbofloxacin were determined by a reverse phase liquid chromatographic method. Mean pharmacokinetic parameters after i.v. administration were the following: t1/2 beta = 12.4 h; ClB = 0.10 L/h.kg; Varea = 1.9 L/kg. The oral bioavailability of marbofloxacin was close to 100% for the three doses. At 2 mg/kg, Cmax of 1.4 micrograms/mliter was reached at tmax of 2.5 h. Mean AUC and Cmax values had a statistically significant linear relationship with the doses administered. About 40% of the administered dose was excreted in urine as unchanged parent drug. After s.c. administration, the calculated parameters were close to those obtained after oral administration, except tmax (about 1 h) which was shorter. The mean skin to plasma concentration ratio after the long-term trial was 1.6, suggesting good tissue penetration of marbofloxacin.
Immunoreactivity of alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone, adrenocorticotrophic hormone and beta-endorphin in cutaneous malignant melanoma and benign melanocytic naevi.	Melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH) has been reported to enhance the experimental metastatic behaviour of melanoma cells in the mouse model. alpha-MSH production and MSH receptor (melanocortin 1 receptor gene) expression have been detected in cultured normal human melanocytes and metastasized melanomas. The exact role of MSH in the metastatic behaviour of human melanoma cells is, however, not yet known. To clarify a possible role of proopiomelanocortin (POMC)-derived peptides, including alpha-MSH, in melanoma development and progression, we analysed immunohistochemically the localization of alpha-MSH adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) and beta-endorphin in various kinds of benign pigmented naevocytic lesions and malignant melanomas. Three of 21 samples of common and dysplastic naevi showed detectable alpha-MSH staining in naevus cells, and five and six of 15 samples were weakly positive for ACTH and beta-endorphin staining, respectively. In melanoma samples, 24 of 45, 23 of 39 and 30 of 42 samples showed positive staining with alpha-MSH, ACTH and beta-endorphin antibodies, respectively. Furthermore, staining for all three antibodies was noted to be more intense and diffuse in samples of nodular melanoma, vertically growing acral lentiginous melanoma and superficial spreading melanoma as well as metastatic lesions compared with those of naevi. Although it is yet to be determined whether or not this strong staining for POMC-derived peptides in advanced melanoma cells indicates a role of autocrine or paracrine regulation, our results suggest a possible involvement of POMC gene products in melanoma progression.
Expression of mRNA for type IV collagen alpha1, alpha5 and alpha6 chains by cultured dermal fibroblasts from patients with X-linked Alport syndrome.	COL4A5 mutations causing X-linked Alport syndrome (XLAS) are frequently associated with absence of the alpha3, alpha4,alpha5 and alpha6 chains of type IV collagen from basement membranes and increased amounts of the alpha1(IV) and alpha2(IV) chains in glomerular basement membrane. Although many COL4A5 mutations have been described in XLAS, the mechanisms by which these mutations influence the basement membrane appearance of chains other than alpha5(IV) remain poorly understood. In this study, we used dermal fibroblasts from eight normal individuals and nine males with XLAS to test the hypotheses that COL4A5 mutations increase transcription of COL4A1 and suppress transcription of COL4A6. Ribonuclease protection assays revealed that alpha1(IV), alpha5(IV) and alpha6(IV) transcripts were expressed in cultures of dermal fibroblasts. The mRNA levels for alpha1(IV) in eight of nine patients with XLAS were not increased compared to controls; one patient with a large COL4A5 deletion showed significant elevation of alpha1(IV) mRNA levels. No differences in steady-state mRNA levels for alpha6(IV) were found when XLAS fibroblasts were compared with controls, even though little or no alpha6(IV) protein was detectable at the dermal-epidermal junction by immunofluorescence study. This finding suggests that post-transcriptional events account for the absence of alpha6(IV) in the Alport dermal-epidermal junction.
Absorption and dispersion of ultraviolet radiation in human skin]	The study was carried out in a group composed of 48 men. The linear coefficient and linear coefficient of dispersion of ultraviolet radiation (UVR) in the skin was measured for different wavelengths. The mean values were determined for four types of the skin in both ultraviolet A (UVA) and ultraviolet B (UVB) ranges from 280 to 400 nm. The skin ability to absorb UVR decreases rapidly with decreasing wavelength. At wavelength of 280 nm, the coefficient of absorption changed within the range from 105 cm-1 (skin type II) to 160 cm-1 (skin type V), however, at wavelength of 400 nm it accounted only for 20 cm-1. A reciprocal relationship for scattering was found. The coefficient of dispersion changed within the range from 3.5 cm-1 at wavelength of 280 nm to 12 cm-1 at wavelength of 400nm. The mechanism based on absorption predominated at a shorter wave range (UVB), while at a longer range (UVA) the scattering mechanism was more efficient.
Matrix metalloproteinase-2 and matrix metalloproteinase-9 in cholesteatoma and deep meatal skin.	A qualitative and quantitative study of the presence of Matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) and Matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) in cholesteatoma was performed. Ten cholesteatoma and four deep meatal skin specimens were analysed for gelatinase activity at molecular weights corresponding to MMP-2 and MMP-9 using Sodium Dodecyl Sulphate Polyacrylamide Gel Electrophoresis (SDS PAGE) Zymography. Gelatinase activity at 72 kDa and 92 kDa was investigated. Western blotting was employed using primary monoclonal antibodies to provide a qualitative assessment of MMP-2 and MMP-9. Non-parametric data analysis using the Mann-Whitney U test did not show a significant difference in expression of MMP-2 (P = 0.51) or MMP-9 (P = 0.14) between the two tissue types. Western blotting showed the presence of both MMP-2 and MMP-9 in the majority of specimens, both cholesteatoma and deep meatal skin.
Pseudoxanthoma elasticum-like papillary dermal elastolysis: report of four Japanese cases and an immunohistochemical study of elastin and fibrillin-1.	We report four patients with pseudoxanthoma elasticum-like papillary dermal elastolysis (PDE). Multiple small papules on the neck, clinically resembling pseudoxanthoma elasticum, and loss of the elastic fibre network in the papillary dermis were found in each case. Immunohistochemical staining for elastin and fibrillin-1 in one patient demonstrated the disappearance of elastin and fibrillin-1 in the papillary dermis. Site-matched normal skins of the elderly showed intact elastin but a lack of fibrillin-1 in the papillary dermis. The younger normal skins revealed intact elastin and fibrillin-1. The results suggest that fibrillin-1 is absent from the papillary dermis of the normal-appearing neck skin of the elderly and that the primary defect in PDE may be in elastin rather than in fibrillin-1.
Interleukin-17 and interferon-gamma synergize in the enhancement of proinflammatory cytokine production by human keratinocytes.	Keratinocytes are influenced by cytokines released by skin-infiltrating T lymphocytes. IL-17 is produced by activated CD4+ T cells and can stimulate epithelial cells. We investigated whether IL-17 could modulate the cytokine production and cell-surface molecule expression of keratinocytes. The effects of IL-17 were compared with those of IFN-gamma, which is also derived from activated T cells and is a strong stimulator for keratinocytes. IL-17 enhanced the mRNA and protein production of the proinflammatory cytokines IL-6 and IL-8 in a concentration-dependent way, and induced a weak expression of intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1 and HLA-DR. The production of IL-1alpha and IL-15 was not altered. IFN-gamma augmented the production of IL-6, IL-8, and IL-15 and strongly induced both cell-surface molecules. IL-17 and IFN-gamma showed marked synergism in the stimulation of IL-6 and IL-8 protein secretion and, to a lesser extent, in the induction of ICAM-1 and HLA-DR expression. The majority of the CD4+ and CD8+ T cell clones derived from lesional psoriatic skin expressed IL-17 mRNA, suggesting that skin-infiltrating T cells can produce this cytokine. This IL-17 mRNA expression was detectable in T helper cell type 1 and type 2 and did not correlate with the IFN-gamma or IL-4 production. In addition, IL-17 mRNA is detectable in biopsies from lesional psoriatic skin, but not in nonlesional control biopsies. Our study indicates that IL-17 is a proinflammatory cytokine, which could amplify the development of cutaneous inflammation and may support the maintenance of chronic dermatoses, through stimulation of keratinocytes to augment their secretion of proinflammatory cytokines.
Numbers and differentiation status of melanocytes in idiopathic guttate hypomelanosis.	The etiology and pathogenesis of idiopathic guttate hypomelanosis (IGH) are largely unknown. To investigate whether the pathologic alteration in IGH involves changes in melanocytic differentiation, cell number, or both, we studied nine lesions of IGH by immunoperoxidase, using monoclonal antibodies against the KIT receptor and a panel of melanocyte differentiation antigens (tyrosinase-related protein-1, tyrosinase, and gp100/pme117). In each case, compared with grossly normal non-lesional skin, IGH lesions showed markedly reduced numbers both of KIT+ cells and of cells expressing melanocyte differentiation antigens (p < 0.0001). Double immunofluorescence labeling of lesions revealed only scattered cells with a less-differentiated phenotype, i.e. cells positive for KIT but having low or undetectable TRP-1. These results indicate that the pathogenesis of IGH involves an absolute decrease in the number of melanocytes; a block in melanocyte differentiation does not appear to be a major component of the process.
The level of the collagen cross-link pyridinoline reflects the improvement of cutaneous lesions in one case of skin alveolar echinococcosis.	Cutaneous parasitic lesions, associated with a dense fibrous reaction, markedly improved under albendazole treatment in one case of supraumbilical skin localization of alveolar echinococcosis. Since collagen cross-linking increases during fibrogenesis and contributes to the stability of fibrotic lesions, we monitored the level of the cross-links pyridinoline and pentosidine in skin lesions from this patient to determine if they would reflect the changes occurring during treatment. We looked at the deposition of cross-linked type I collagen by immunohistochemistry and also measured the serum concentrations of pentosidine and of a fragment of type I collagen (ICTP), which contains a site of pyridinoline formation. Albendazole treatment did not affect either the collagen content of skin lesions or the serum concentrations of ICTP and pentosidine, but it led to a pronounced decrease in pyridinoline level concomitant with the disappearance, observed by immunohistochemistry, of extensively cross-linked fibrotic type I collagen. The follow-up of collagen cross-linking by pyridinoline in skin tissue thus appears to be useful in reflecting the improvement of fibrotic skin diseases during therapy.
Altered expression of the alpha2 laminin chain in psoriatic skin: the effect of treatment with cyclosporin.	The histopathological pattern of psoriasis is characterized by dermal inflammatory reaction and hyperproliferation of the epidermis. The mechanism of the epidermal hyperproliferation is not completely understood, but it is probably modulated by the basal lamina (BL), the alterations of which have not been described. We performed the present study to evaluate the expression of the alpha1, alpha2, beta1 and gamma1 laminin chains and collagen IV in the BL of active psoriasis vulgaris before and after cyclosporin treatment administered until the psoriasis was in remission. The results showed that the alpha2 chain is weak and irregular in the lesions, while the alpha1, beta1 and gamma1 chains and collagen IV are normal, with intense and continuous reaction. In the same subjects, this alteration was absent in skin that was clinically unaffected. After treatment with cyclosporin, the altered expression of the alpha2 chain returned to normal in the healing lesions.
Apoptosis with positive direct immunofluorescence findings in a patient with necrolytic migratory erythema.	A 45-year-old man with a glucagonoma and necrolytic migratory erythema is described. Clinical, radiographic, and histologic features were typical for this syndrome. However, a skin biopsy specimen for direct immunofluorescence examination revealed apoptotic keratinocytes that stained positive with immunoglobulins, fibrinogen, and C3. These immunofluorescence findings were initially interpreted erroneously as showing erythema multiforme or a related disorder. We present a unique case of necrolytic migratory erythema with positive direct immunofluorescence findings reflecting immunoglobulin and complement deposition within dyskeratotic epithelial cells.
A composite CMV-IE enhancer/beta-actin promoter is ubiquitously expressed in mouse cutaneous epithelium.	In most existing transgenic mouse models developed for the study of specific genes in the skin, the goal has been to target transgene expression to defined populations of cells in the cutaneous epithelium. Keratin promoters have been especially useful for this purpose. In some instances, however, it may be desirable to express a transgene in all the cells of the cutaneous epithelium. Since no ubiquitously expressed promoter sequences had previously been identified, we used lacZ reporter transgenes to test two enhancer/promoter sequences for ubiquitous expression in the skin of adult transgenic mice. We find that a CMV enhancer/CMV promoter is not active in most cell types in the skin, whereas a CMV enhancer/modified beta-actin promoter sequence is active in the suprabasal and basal cells of the epidermis as well as in the epithelial cells of the hair follicles, sebaceous glands, and the dermal papillae.
A skin lymphoepithelial tumor (skin lymphadenoma)]	The study of a case of cutaneous lymphadenoma and a literature review allowed us to verify that, in contrast to immunohistochemical findings, clinical and histological dates are basically reproducible. Accordingly the eccrine or hair follicle natures of the pleonasm cannot be either excluded or confirmed. The initial terms "cutaneous lympho-epithelial tumor" or "epithelial lymphohistiocytic tumor" seem more suitable than that of "cutaneous lymphadenoma" to describe this peculiar skin neoplasm.
Cutaneous hemoglobin oxygenation of different free flap donor sites.	Microsurgical skin flaps raised from various body regions show differences in vascular architecture, cutaneous capillary density, and skin perfusion. Therefore, it can be expected that oxygenation of the skin is different at the various free flap donor sites. To determine the cutaneous oxygen supply, intracapillary hemoglobin oxygenation was measured on the donor sites of the radial forearm flap, scapula, latissimus dorsi, rectus abdominis, anterolateral thigh, and osteocutaneous fibula flap on 50 healthy subjects (25 men and 25 women aged 20 to 40 years). Measurements were performed noninvasively with the Erlangen Microlightguide Spectrophotometer (EMPHO) on skin areas of 6 x 8 cm in each region under resting conditions. The hemoglobin oxygenation of the skin in all donor regions varied between a maximum of 43.94 to 58.94 percent in the scapula region and a minimum of 13.89 to 29.45 percent in the lateral calf. High oxygenation values were also found on the skin over the latissimus dorsi muscle (34.56 to 48.45 percent), followed by the distal volar forearm (29.78 to 40.30 percent), whereas paraumbilical skin and the donor sites of the lower extremities were less oxygenated. By using the Wilcoxon test, significant differences were found between all donor regions except for the anterolateral thigh and lateral calf (p = 0.05). There were no gender-specific differences. From these results, it is concluded that, on young healthy subjects, regional oxygen supply on different free flap donor sites varies significantly. This finding must be considered in the interpretation of intracutaneous or transcutaneous PO2 measurements for flap monitoring.
Synthesis and effect of two new penetration enhancers on the transdermal delivery of 5-fluorouracil through excised rat skin.	The tetrahydrogeraniol (THG) derivative, ethyl-(3,7-dimethyl octyl thio) acetate (EDOTA) was prepared by reacting tetrahydrogeranyl bromide (obtained by reaction of 40% hydrobromic acid and concentrated sulfuric acid) with ethyl 2-mercaptoacetate, while 3,7-dimethyl octyl propionate (DOP) was synthesized by a common esterification reaction by reacting THG with propionic acid in the presence of cyclohexane and concentrated sulfuric acid. The penetration-enhancing effect of the new enhancers were compared with THG and Azone in vitro using excised rat skin in modified Franz-type diffusion cells. 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU), a hydrophilic drug with poor skin permeability was used as a model permeant. Skin samples were pretreated with pure liquid enhancers for 12 h. 5-FU flux through the control and enhancer-treated skin increased linearly with its concentration in the receptor compartment. EDOTA and DOP interacted with the skin rapidly (< 2h), and the duration of action is at least 24 h. Significant differences were found in the flux values of 5-FU; EDOTA and DOP enhanced the permeability of the drug about 6-fold and 11-fold respectively. Increased partition coefficient and diffusion coefficient values were obtained by these enhancers. The results suggested that the amount of EDOTA and DOP in the skin, especially in the stratum corneum, may be related to their penetration-enhancing effect.
Variational formulation of open-ended coaxial line in contact with layered biological medium.	An open-ended coaxial probe designed to measure layered biological media is analyzed with a new method. The probe is considered as an electrostatic circuit element whose capacitance is solved using a stationary functional. The fundamental transverse electric and magnetic field (TEM)-mode and the series of evanescent wavemodes in the coaxial cable are used as basis functions. The field outside the probe is solved using a Hankel transform. The capacitance is calculated for homogeneous materials and two-layer structures and the results are compared with values measured with a phantom model. The method can be easily extended for structures with an arbitrary number of layers. A practical approximation for two-layer cases, originally developed to take into account the effect of subcutaneous fat in skin measurements, is presented and its validity for different combinations of dielectric constants and the thickness of the first layer is demonstrated. The static approximation limits the frequency range, but it covers biological measurements up to 500 MHz. The developed method is accurate and easy to adopt in practice.
De Novo hair follicle morphogenesis and hair tumors in mice expressing a truncated beta-catenin in skin.	An effector of intercellular adhesion, beta-catenin also functions in Wnt signaling, associating with Lef-1/Tcf DNA-binding proteins to form a transcription factor. We report that this pathway operates in keratinocytes and that mice expressing a stabilized beta-catenin controlled by an epidermal promoter undergo a process resembling de novo hair morphogenesis. The new follicles formed sebaceous glands and dermal papilla, normally established only in embryogenesis. As in embryologically initiated hair germs, transgenic follicles induce Lef-1, but follicles are disoriented and defective in sonic hedgehog polarization. Additionally, proliferation continues unchecked, resulting in two types of tumors also found in humans. Our findings suggest that transient beta-catenin stabilization may be a key player in the long-sought epidermal signal leading to hair development and implicate aberrant beta-catenin activation in hair tumors.
Effects of continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis and kidney transplantation on advanced glycation endproducts in the skin and peritoneum.	Advanced glycation endproducts (AGE) form as a result of non-enzymatic reaction of reducing sugars with proteins. Patients with chronic renal failure (CRF) have elevated AGE in plasma, skin and peritoneum. We measured AGE in the skin and peritoneum of individuals with CRF, patients undergoing continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) and in renal transplant recipients (TR). Pentosidine concentration and collagen-linked fluorescence (CLF) were measured. Pentosidine and CLF correlated in all patient groups (CRF r=0.688, p<0.01; CAPD r=0.674, p<0.05; TR r=0.811, p<0.01). Successful kidney transplant reduced AGE levels in the skin (CRF 11.7 +/- 4.51 U/mg; TR 5.02 +/- 3.13 U/mg, p<0.00001) and peritoneum (CRF 17.5 +/- 6.16 U/mg, TR 9.4 +/- 4.97 U/mg, p<0.0001). However in contrast to the TR group, CLF in peritoneum increased following CAPD (CRF 17.5 +/- 6.16 U/mg; CAPD 24.2 +/- 10.4 U/mg; p=0.06). Our results suggest that AGE might be formed in the peritoneum during CAPD treatment.
Chemical modification of proteins by methylglyoxal.	Methylglyoxal is formed in vivo by spontaneous decomposition of triose phosphate intermediates in aerobic glycolysis. It may also be formed during oxidative degradation of both carbohydrates (pentoses and ascorbate) and lipids (arachidonate). In addition to reaction with arginine residues to form imidazolone adducts, methylglyoxal reacts with lysine residues in protein to form N(epsilon)-(carboxyethyl)lysine (CEL) and the imidazolium crosslink, methylglyoxal-lysine dimer (MOLD). Like the glycoxidation products, N(epsilon)-(carboxymethyl)lysine (CML) and glyoxal-lysine dimer (GOLD) which are formed on reaction of glyoxal with protein, CEL and MOLD increase in lens proteins and skin collagen with age. CML and CEL also increase in skin collagen in diabetes, while all four compounds increase in plasma proteins in uremia. Overall, CML, CEL, GOLD and MOLD are quantitatively the major biomarkers of the Maillard reaction in tissue proteins. GOLD and MOLD, in particular, are present at 10-50 fold higher concentrations than the fluorescent crosslink, pentosidine. Together, these dicarbonyl-derived advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs) represent the major chemical modifications that accumulate in tissue proteins with age and in chronic diseases such as diabetes and atherosclerosis.
In vivo percutaneous absorption of boric acid, borax, and disodium octaborate tetrahydrate in humans compared to in vitro absorption in human skin from infinite and finite doses.	Literature from the first half of this century report concern for toxicity from topical use of boric acid, but assessment of percutaneous absorption has been impaired by lack of analytical sensitivity. Analytical methods in this study included inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry which now allows quantitation of percutaneous absorption of 10B in 10B-enriched boric acid, borax, and disodium octaborate tetrahydrate (DOT) in biological matrices. This made it possible, in the presence of comparatively large natural dietary boron intakes for the in vivo segment of this study, to quantify the boron passing through skin. Human volunteers were dosed with 10B-enriched boric acid, 5.0%, borax, 5.0%, or disodium octaborate tetrahydrate, 10%, in aqueous solutions. Urinalysis, for boron and changes in boron isotope ratios, was used to measure absorption. Boric acid in vivo percutaneous absorption was 0.226 (SD = 0.125) mean percentage dose, with flux and permeability constant (Kp) calculated at 0.009 microgram/cm2/h and 1.9 x 10(-7) cm/h, respectively. Borax absorption was 0.210 (SD = 0.194) mean percentage of dose, with flux and Kp calculated at 0.009 microgram/cm2/h and 1.8 x 10(-7) cm/h, respectively. DOT absorption was 0.122 (SD = 0.108) mean percentage, with flux and Kp calculated at 0.01 microgram/cm2/h and 1.0 x 10(-7) cm/h, respectively. Pretreatment with the potential skin irritant 2% sodium lauryl sulfate had no effect on boron skin absorption. In vitro human skin percentage of doses of boric acid absorbed were 1.2 for a 0.05% solution, 0.28 for a 0.5% solution, and 0.70 for a 5.0% solution. These absorption amounts translated into flux values of, respectively, 0.25, 0.58, and 14.58 micrograms/cm2/h and permeability constants (Kp) of 5.0 x 10(-4), 1.2 x 10(-4), and 2.9 x 10(-4) cm/h for the 0.05, 0.5, and 5.0% solutions. The above in vitro doses were at infinite, 1000 microliters/cm2 volume. At 2 microliters/cm2 (the in vivo dosing volume), flux decreased some 200-fold to 0.07 microgram/cm2/h and Kp of 1.4 x 10(-6) cm/h, while percentage of dose absorbed was 1.75%. Borax dosed at 5.0%/1000 microliters/cm2 had 0.41% dose absorbed, flux at 8.5 micrograms/cm2/h, and Kp was 1.7 x 10(-4) cm/h. Disodium octaborate tetrahydrate (DOT) dosed at 10%/1000 microliters/cm2 was 0.19% dose absorbed, flux at 7.9 micrograms/cm2/h, and Kp was 0.8 x 10(-4) cm/h. These in vitro results from infinite doses (1000 microliters/cm2) were 1000-fold greater than those obtained in the companion in vivo study. The results from the finite (2 microliters/cm2) dosing were closer (10-fold difference) to the in vivo results. General application of infinite dose percutaneous absorption values for risk assessment is questioned by these results. These in vivo results show that percutaneous absorption of boron, as boric acid, borax, and disodium octaborate tetrahydrate, through intact human skin, is low and is significantly less than the average daily dietary intake. This very low boron skin absorption makes it apparent that, for the borates tested, the use of gloves to prevent systemic uptake is unnecessary. These findings do not apply to abraded or otherwise damaged skin.
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin in pregnant Long Evans rats: disposition to maternal and embryo/fetal tissues.	Prenatal exposure to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) interferes with fetal development at doses lower than those causing overt toxicity in adult animals. In a multigeneration study (Murray et al., 1979), female rats that were administered 0.01 microgram TCDD/kg/day in their diet did not experience reduced fertility; however, reduced fertility was seen in the F1 and F2 generations. Exposure to TCDD during development produces alterations in the reproductive system of the developing pups, such as delayed puberty and reduced sperm counts in males (Mably et al., 1992a; Gray et al., 1995) and malformations in the external genitalia of females (Gray and Ostby, 1995). Therefore, the objectives of this study were to determine maternal and fetal tissue concentrations of TCDD that are associated with the adverse reproductive effects seen by Gray and co-workers. Pregnant Long Evans rats received a single oral dose of 1.15 micrograms [3H]TCDD/kg on Gestation Day (GD) 8 and maternal as well as fetal tissue concentrations of TCDD were measured on GD9, GD16, and GD21. On GD9, the highest level of TCDD localized in the maternal liver (25.1% dose). In addition, the amount reaching all the embryos on GD9 was 0.01% of the administered dose, which resulted in a concentration of 0.02% dose/g. The amount of TCDD reaching the fetal compartment (fetuses + placentas) increased to 0.12% dose/tissue on GD16 and 0.71% by GD21. The concentration of TCDD within the fetal compartment (0.01% dose/g) on GD16 was comparable to that found in the maternal blood and spleen. Concentrations of TCDD in a single embryo/fetus were 39.6, 18.1, and 22.1 pg/g on GD9, GD16, and GD21, respectively. Estimates of hepatic half-life of elimination in pregnant rats suggested that TCDD may be eliminated faster in pregnant LE rats. Therefore, measurements of biliary elimination were made in pregnant and nonpregnant LE rats to compare rates of metabolism; however, biliary elimination of TCDD is not affected by pregnancy. In conclusion, this dose administered during a critical period of organogenesis causes adverse effects on the developing reproductive system of rodents. This dose produced a body burden of 22.1 pg TCDD/g within a single fetus on GD21. This indicates that low-level TCDD exposure during the perinatal stage of life can produce adverse effects within the developing pups.
Lipids and their antioxidant activity in tissues of ruminant animals]	The work deals with the estimation of lipids in the bovine tissues (liver, intestine, skin) of the animals bred for the industrial purposes. The tests displayed, that depending on ration, breeding conditions and providing the animals organism with vitamins, the lipids levels in the liver, intestine and skin changes. As a result of the experiments the conclusion was made that deficiency of fatty-soluble vitamins A, D, E in the animals fodder provided for the disturbance of lipid metabolism in their organism and for the development of a pathologic process: a light form of alimentary parathyroid-osteodistrophia. This state was eliminated by means of additive intramuscular injection of the above listed vitamins. Estimation of the test animals tissue lipids properties revealed, that the provision of the organism with the vitamins led to the increase of the level of some natural antioxidants. Normal development of animals is provided when they are fed by natural products.
Defibrotide activity in experimental frostbite injury.	The pathogenesis of frostbite injury has not been completely elucidated although the available evidence suggests it is an inflammatory reaction following reperfusion injury. Defibrotide given i.p. at 40 mg/kg/ day for three days to rabbits, the ears of which were subjected to frostbite, decreased the presence of inflammatory cells (mast cells -76%; neutrophils -40.4%) and increased prostaglandin I2 (PGI2) (as 6-Keto-PGF1 alpha) in the involved skin. Thromboxane A2 (TxA2) (as TxB2) was unaffected. These data strengthen the view that an inflammatory process is the underlying cause of frostbite injury and that Defibrotide is active in pathological situations involving an inflammatory process like in frostbite.
Biphasic elevation of plasma histamine induced by water immersion stress, and their sources in rats.	The effect of water immersion stress on the plasma concentration of histamine, in Wistar and mast cell-deficient (Ws/Ws) rats, was investigated. The histamine content of the plasma, skin and gastric mucosa, as well as the level of activity of histidine decarboxylase in the gastric mucosa, were determined by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)-fluorometry. In Wistar rats exposed to water immersion stress for a total of 6 h, an initial, acute, four-fold, transient increase in the plasma histamine level, followed by a sustained, though lower, elevation of the plasma histamine level, was observed. The initial acute increase in plasma histamine level was also seen in gastrectomized Wistar rats exposed to water immersion stress, but not in Ws/Ws rats exposed to stress. The sustained elevation of the plasma histamine level was observed in the Ws/Ws rats. However, in both the gastrectomized Wistar rats and gastrectomized Ws/Ws rats, the sustained elevation in plasma histamine level was not observed. The histamine content of the skin of Wistar rats after 15 min or more exposure to water immersion stress, was 20% lower than that of control rats. The mucosal histamine content of both Wistar rats and Ws/Ws rats, was 20% lower, whereas histidine decarboxylase activity in the gastric mucosa was enhanced by two-fold, during exposure to stress for 4 h. These findings indicate that water immersion stress causes a biphasic increase in plasma histamine concentration in Wistar rats; the initial acute increase in plasma histamine level originates from mast cells, and the second, sustained increase is attributed to enterochromaffin-like cells.
A novel surgical glue composed of gelatin and N-hydroxysuccinimide activated poly(L-glutamic acid): Part 1. Synthesis of activated poly(L-glutamic acid) and its gelation with gelatin.	Although fibrin glue has been widely used as a surgical adhesive, its components, fibrinogen and thrombin, obtained from human blood are not completely free from the risk of virus infection due to acquired immune deficiency and hepatitis. Recently, we have reported that a polymer pair composed of gelatin and poly(L-glutamic acid) (PLGA) promptly forms a gel and can firmly bond to soft tissues when crosslinked with the aid of water-soluble carbodiimide (WSC). The present study was undertaken to design a new PLGA-gelatin glue without using WSC. Two kinds of PLGA with molecular weights of 71 and 22 kDa were employed to prepare N-hydroxysuccinimide (NHS) activated derivatives. The NHS-activated PLGA could be synthesized at high yields and was found to be stable for an extended time without losing the ability to crosslink with gelatin when stored under a dry-cold condition. This NHS-activated PLGA could spontaneously form a gel with gelatin in an aqueous solution within a short time, comparable to a commercial fibrin glue, when gelation was allowed to proceed at pH 8.3. The NHS-activated PLGA prepared from PLGA with the molecular weight of 22 kDa could be readily dissolved at high concentrations and its ability to form a gel was maintained for more than 10 min when an acidic 8% NHS-activated PLGA solution was used. The bonding strength of PLGA gelatin glues with natural tissue was higher than that of fibrin glue. These findings strongly suggest that this combination of gelatin and NHS-PLGA is very promising as a surgical adhesive and may possibly replace fibrin glues prepared from human blood components.
Identification of the cornea-specific keratin 12 promoter by in vivo particle-mediated gene transfer.	Keratin 12 (K12) is a cornea epithelial cell-specific intermediate filament component. To provide a better understanding of its expression, it is necessary to identify and characterize the promoter of Krt1.12 gene.
Photomechanical transcutaneous delivery of macromolecules.	Transcutaneous drug delivery has been the subject of intensive research. In certain situations, rapid transcutaneous delivery is very desirable. A mechanical (stress) pulse generated by a single laser pulse was shown to transiently increase the permeability of the stratum corneum in vivo. The barrier function of the stratum corneum recovers within minutes. The increased permeability during these few minutes allows macromolecules to diffuse through the stratum corneum into the viable epidermis and dermis. Macromolecules (40 kDa dextran and 20 nm latex particles) were deposited into the skin using a photomechanical pulse generated by a single 23 ns laser pulse. This treatment can potentially be utilized in therapies that currently require occlusive dressings for hours or day(s).
An experimental model for interpreting percutaneous penetration of oligonucleotides that incorporates the role of keratinocytes.	Oligonucleotides have been extensively studied for their potential as therapeutic agents. Phosphorothioate oligonucleotides have been demonstrated to be particularly useful due to their stability against nucleases, their ability to be internalized by many cell types, and the ease with which they hybridize with target mRNA. These compounds have previously been delivered across the skin with the aid of iontophoresis. During transdermal delivery, the first viable cells exposed to the oligonucleotides are the keratinocytes. The purpose of this study was to determine the relationship between internalization of these compounds by keratinocytes and their transport across the skin. The in vitro uptake of 15 different fluorescently labeled phosphorothioate oligonucleotides into human keratinocytes was quantitatively measured with a fluorometer. Photomicrographs of keratinocytes indicate diffuse cytoplasmic and nuclear localization. The ability of these molecules to enter cells was linearly related to size. Cellular uptake data were inversely correlated with previously reported steady-state transport levels of oligonucleotides that had been transdermally delivered by iontophoresis across hairless mouse skin. Oligonucleotides that readily entered keratinocytes had a decreased ability to penetrate skin under iontophoretic conditions. The results indicate that oligonucleotide sequences may be designed for treating skin diseases (high uptake, low transport) or systemic disorders (low uptake, high transport).
The type I keratin 19 possesses distinct and context-dependent assembly properties.	Keratins (K), the cytoplasmic intermediate filament (IF) proteins of epithelial cells, are encoded by a multigene family and expressed in a tissue- and differentiation-specific manner. In human skin, keratinocytes of the basal layer of epidermis and the outer root sheath of hair follicles express K5 and K14 as their main keratins. A small subpopulation of basal cells exhibiting stem-cell like characteristics express, in addition, K19. At 40 kDa, this keratin is the smallest IF protein due to an exceptionally short carboxyl-terminal domain. We examined the assembly properties of K19 and contrasted them to K14 in vitro and in vivo. Relative to K5-K14, we find that K5-K19 form less stable tetramers that polymerize into shorter and narrower IFs in vitro. When transiently co-expressed in cultured baby hamster kidney cells, the K5 and K19 combination fails to form a filamentous array, whereas the K5-K14 and K8-K19 ones readily do so. Transient expression of K19 in the epithelial cell lines T51B-Ni and A431 results in its integration into the endogenous keratin network with minimal if any perturbation. Collectively, these results indicate that K19 possesses assembly properties that are distinct from those of K14 and suggest that it may impart unique properties to the basal cells expressing it in skin epithelia.
A novel in-situ-zymography technique localizes gelatinolytic activity in human skin to mast cells.	Matrix-metallo-proteinases play a key role in cutaneous tissue remodeling and wound healing, and have been implicated as the rate-limiting factor in cutaneous tumor invasion and metastasis. We here describe a novel in-situ-zymographic method, which allows to directly localize sites of gelatinolytic activity in human skin. Gelatinolysis was detected through protein-hydrolysis in a 200 microm thick polyacrylamide gel underlying tissue sections. The lysis was substrate-dependent, demonstrated time- and temperature-dependent kinetics, and was inhibited by both EDTA and 1,10-phenanthroline. Normal and diseased skin sections demonstrated multiple focal points of gelatinolysis which co-localized with individual cells. Histochemically, these were shown to represent most likely mast cells (via AS-d-chloroacetate esterase staining and metachromasia). However, immunohistochemical staining for gelatinases A and B showed no immunoreactivity patterns that corresponded to the identified foci of gelatinolysis. The reported in-situ-zymographic technique offers a decisive advantage over immunohistochemistry, since it detects only the activated and catabolically relevant proteases, and provides further evidence for a role of mast cells in extracellular matrix remodeling.
Determination of skin concentrations of enrofloxacin in dogs with pyoderma.	To compare serum and skin concentrations of enrofloxacin in dogs with pyoderma with those of clinically normal dogs and to evaluate concentrations in dogs with superficial versus deep pyoderma.
Reticulate postinflammatory hyperpigmentation with band-like mucin deposition.	Mucinoses of the skin are a group of disorders sharing accumulation of mucin in the skin or hair follicles. Postinflammatory hyperpigmentation, with pigmentary incontinence, is due to loss of melanin from epidermal basal cells and its accumulation in dermal macrophages.
Comparison of six respirator fit-test methods with an actual measurement of exposure in a simulated health care environment: Part I--Protocol development.	Quantitative fit tests (QNFT) have been assumed to be predictive of the protection respirators would provide to a wearer in the workplace. Workplace studies have consistently found no correlation between quantitative fit factors and workplace protection factors. This article is the first in a series of three describing a study designed to compare the fit factors from six QNFT methods against the actual dose of 1,1,2 trichloro-1,2,2 trifluoroethane (Freon-113) received under the same laboratory conditions. Five preliminary studies conducted to develop the protocol to assess the respirator wearer's dose through end-exhaled air analysis are described in this article: (1) chamber characterization, (2) end-exhaled air sampling, (3) skin absorption testing, (4) pharmacokinetic modeling, and (5) subject characterization. It was established that the concentration of corn oil aerosol and Freon-113 could be generated simultaneously in the chamber. It was ascertained that the optimum time to sample the exhaled breath was 30 minutes after the subject exited the chamber. It was also found that in a chamber concentration of 500 ppm, without any respiratory exposure, Freon-113 was still present in the end-exhaled air. This was attributed to skin absorption. The end-exhaled air of subjects exposed to 0.5, 3, 5, 25, 50, and 100 ppm (30 minute time-weighted average) of Freon-113 was evaluated at 30 minutes postexposure. This characterization was then used to predict the actual dose of Freon-113 received during the method comparison and validation testing to be described in subsequent articles.
Redox regulation of wound healing? NF-kappaB activation in cultured human keratinocytes upon wounding and the effect of low energy HeNe irradiation.	The complex process of wound healing as well as the signaling systems orchestrating this intricate process remain incompletely defined. Using human keratinocytes in primary culture, we sought to characterize their NF-kappaB responses to wounding alone or in combination with other treatments. We initially characterized these cultured human keratinocytes responses to known NF-kappaB activators (PMA, TNF-alpha and IL-1) using two different assays, immunohistochemistry and electrophoretic mobility shift (EMSA). After eliciting the expected NF-kappaB responses, we applied these same assays to assess responses to either wounding or HeNe irradiation alone. The results obtained indicated that only a modest/sporadic activation of NF-kappaB was elicited by these which was only detectable using immunohistochemistry. When the combination of wounding and HeNe irradiation on NF-kappaB status was assessed, a marked, localized activation of NF-kappaB in keratinocytes along the wound edge was found. Treatment induced NF-kappaB activation (e.g., wounding, HeNe irradiation and combined wounding and HeNe irradiation) was abrogated by pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC) which inhibits NF-kappaB activation through an as yet incompletely understood (antioxidant?) mechanism. These data therefore suggest that NF-kappaB and oxidation mediated changes in its activation state likely play important roles in normal cutaneous wound healing.
Synthesis and immobilization of ceramide analogs on silica particles.	Ceramides are the major lipid components of the stratum corneum, the major permeability barrier of the skin. Here we report a chemical synthesis of ceramide analogs covalently bonded on the silica particles, that can be used to predict the skin permeability of chemicals via HPLC methods.
