Intraoperative electrooculographic monitoring of oculomotor nerve function during skull base surgery. Technical note.	Intraoperative monitoring techniques for protecting the integrity of the oculomotor nerves during skull base surgery have been reported by several investigators, all of which involved the use of electromyographic responses to extraocular muscles. However, these techniques have not yet become popular because of the complexity of the procedures. The authors report an extremely simple and far more reliable technique in which electrooculographic (EOG) monitoring is used. The oculomotor nerves were stimulated with a monopolar electrode during skull base exposure. The polarity of the EOG responses recorded with surface electrodes placed on the skin around the eyeball yielded precise information concerning the location and function of the oculomotor and abducent nerves. In addition, with the aid of continuous EOG monitoring that detected transient changes in the background waves, surgical procedures that might impinge on oculomotor nerve function could be avoided. The present technique has been used in eight patients with skull base tumors and with it, the authors have achieved excellent results.
Risk of injury to cranial nerves after gamma knife radiosurgery for skull base meningiomas: experience in 88 patients.	In this study the authors sought to determine the neurological risks and potential clinical benefits of gamma knife radiosurgery for skull base meningiomas.
Digital camera documentation system for facial nerve outcome assessment.	To describe the use of a digital camera to document facial nerve function after skull base surgery.
Combined treatment of advanced stages of recurrent skin cancer of the head.	The authors investigated whether skull base resection and primary free-flap reconstruction in a single-stage surgery is oncologically effective for treating advanced stages of recurrent skin cancer (RSC) of the head.
Extended middle fossa approach: quantitative analysis of petroclival exposure and surgical freedom as a function of successive temporal bone removal by using frameless stereotaxy.	Conventional wisdom regarding skull base surgery says that more extensive bone removal equals greater exposure. Few researchers have quantitatively examined this assertion, however. In this study the authors used a frameless stereotactic system to measure quantitatively the area of petroclival exposure and surgical freedom for manipulation of instruments with successive steps of temporal bone removal.
Complication rate of transtemporal hydroxyapatite cement cranioplasties: a case series review of 76 cranioplasties.	The objective of this study was to evaluate the complication rate of transtemporal cranioplasties using hydroxyapatite cement (HAC) for repair.
Extended pericranial flap and bone graft reconstruction in anterior skull base surgery.	The objectives of this study was to establish a rationale for repairing large anterior skull base defects with an extended pericranial flap and split calvarial bone graft; to define large anterior skull base defects as those spanning the anterior cranial measuring at least 3.0 x 4.0 cm; and to describe the surgical technique and compare it with alternative strategies. Study design Thirty-four patients underwent anterior craniofacial resection of anterior skull-based tumors of varying histology with reconstruction using an extended pericranial flap and split calvarial bone graft.
Contemporary skull base reconstruction.	Tumors of the skull base that would have been considered inoperable thirty or forty years ago are now routinely resected with reliable results due to the advancement of modern reconstructive techniques. High mortality rates were common prior to the use of vascularized tissue for skull base repair. However, the advent of local flap reconstruction for skull base defects in the 1960s revolutionized skull base surgery. The use of regional flaps in the 1970s and 1980s allowed skull base surgeons to perform more extensive surgeries, but complication rates were still quite high.
Radial forearm free tissue transfer reduces complications in salvage skull base surgery.	Patients who undergo skull base resection after prior surgery or radiation may be at high risk for complications when local flaps alone are used for reconstruction. To determine whether the complication rate could be reduced, fasciocutaneous free tissue transfer was used to reinforce the dural closure in patients who had prior skull base surgery or radiation.
Endoscopic surgery of the anterior skull base.	Traditional surgical approaches to the anterior skull base often involve craniotomy, facial incisions, disruption of skeletal framework, tracheotomy, and an extended hospital stay. As experience with endoscopic sinus surgery has grown, the techniques and equipment have been found to be adaptable to treatment of lesions of the anterior and central skull base. A minimally invasive endoscopic approach theoretically offers the advantages of avoiding facial incisions, osteotomies, and tracheotomy; surgery should be less painful, recovery quicker, and hospital stays should be shorter. The study attempted to assess endoscopic approaches to the anterior and central skull base for its ability to achieve those goals.
Relative roles of microsurgery and stereotactic radiosurgery for the treatment of patients with cranial meningiomas: a single-surgeon 4-year integrated experience with both modalities.	The authors sought to assess the respective roles of microsurgery and gamma knife surgery (GKS) in the treatment of patients with meningiomas.
Trans-eyebrow mini-orbitozygomatic pterional approach for minimally invasive skull base surgery.	Surgical treatment of skull base pathologies remains one of the most challenging tasks to neurosurgeons. Advances in neuroimaging as well as the evolution of modern techniques and neurosurgical equipment have paved the way for a more precise diagnosis, a better selection of the surgical approach and have prompted the adaptation of minimally invasive concepts to different aspects of modern neurosurgical practice. The trans-eyebrow mini orbitozygomatic pterional approach is a tailored approach that provides multiple avenues to the target, minimizing retraction of the brain and affords better exposure of the pathology. It was performed on 16 patients with frontobasal or suprasellar tumors. The post-operative clinical outcome was excellent with smooth and fast recovery as well as satisfactory cosmetic results. It should be considered as part of the armamentarium to manage skull base lesions when indicated and not to replace other well recognized skull base approaches.
Image-guided procedures of the skull base.	The primary factor in determining the surgical approach to skull base pathology should not be the presence or absence of IGS. The knowledge and experience of the surgeon is far more important than any technology or instrumentation. As with any computerized system, IGS is susceptible to numerous human and technical errors that can lead a surgeon astray. IGS must be used solely as a preoperative planning instrument and an intraoperative confirmatory tool. Under no circumstances should a surgeon proceed with a procedure using only information obtained from an IGS system, nor should a surgeon feel compelled to perform operations for which they have not had adequate training simply because IGS is now widely available. Continued advances in endoscopic equipment, radio-graphic techniques, and IGS systems will permit the rhinologist to continue to stretch the minimally invasive boundaries in treating skull base pathology.
Radial forearm free tissue transfer in the management of persistent cerebrospinal fluid leaks.	Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leaks can occur after head trauma or skull base surgery. Persistent or spontaneous leaks should be repaired, since they put patients at risk for serious intracranial complications. Although numerous repair methods have been successful, the occasional patient develops a persistent leak. We describe our experience with free tissue transfer for repair of recalcitrant CSF leaks.
Use of anterolateral thigh and lateral arm fasciocutaneous free flaps in lateral skull base reconstruction.	Lateral skull base defects following tumor ablation are ideally reconstructed with microvascular free tissue transfer. Although the rectus abdominis free flap is the workhorse in skull base reconstruction, it has a number of drawbacks. Anecdotal reports have indicated that fasciocutaneous free flaps may be useful alternatives in selected cases. Patients undergoing lateral arm (4 cases) or anterolateral thigh (8 cases) fasciocutaneous free flap reconstruction of lateral skull base defects between 1999 and 2005 were therefore reviewed. Twelve consecutive patients (4 males, 8 females) with a mean age of 63 years (range, 39 to 74) underwent such reconstruction following resection of lateral (11 cases) and anterolateral (1 case) skull base lesions. Eight patients had squamous cell carcinoma, 3 had infection or osteoradionecrosis, and 1 had adenoid cystic carcinoma. The duration of surgery (from induction of anesthesia to exit from the operating room) averaged 14.5 hours (range, 10 to 19.5 hours). All donor sites were closed directly. All the flap transfers were successful, with minimal reconstructive and donor site morbidity. During the follow-up period (average, 18 months; range, 2-48 months), 2 patients died of metastatic disease, and another 2 died of other unrelated causes. The remaining 8 patients are alive and disease free. It is concluded that lateral arm and anterolateral thigh fasciocutaneous free flaps should be considered as viable reconstructive options for lateral skull base ablative defects.
Use of microvascular free flaps in the reconstruction of the anterior and middle skull base.	Different reconstruction techniques of the anterior and middle skull base as consequence of a defect after surgical treatment of neoplastic pathologies are described in the literature. The aim of the present study is to present our experience regarding the use of microvascular free flaps for reconstruction of the anterior or middle skull base after large defects caused by removal of malignant neoplasms. From 2000 to 2004, in the Department of Maxillo-Facial Surgery of the University of Rome "La Sapienza" and "Tor Vergata," 13 surgical procedures for reconstruction of anterior and middle skull base defects by free flaps were performed in 11 patients. Data on patient demographics, histopathology, location and size of defect, type of reconstruction, and postoperative complications were obtained from medical record charts. A safe soft tissue closure of the intracranial space was achieved in all patients. Defect repair was accomplished by revascularized transfer of rectus abdominis flaps in seven cases, latissimus dorsi muscle flaps in two patients, radial forearm flap in one case, and fibula flap in one case. There were two total flap losses; the secondary defect repair was accomplished in both cases by revascularized transfer of latissimus dorsi muscle flap. No donor site complications were observed in all the flaps. The mean operation time was 85 hours; patients were hospitalized for a mean period of 14 days. The method of choice for the reconstruction of anterior or middle skull base defect should be based upon careful evaluation of the single case and, particularly, the localization and entity of the residual defect. For defects that require large amounts of soft tissue, the latissimus dorsi free flap and the rectus abdominis free flap are the best appropriate choices for reconstructive procedures for anterior and middle skull base tumors.
Increase of accuracy in intraoperative navigation through high-resolution flat-panel volume computed tomography: experimental comparison with multislice computed tomography-based navigation.	High-resolution imaging, as provided by flat-panel-based volume computed tomography (fpVCT), could increase navigation accuracy and could therefore improve image-guided procedures or make novel navigated surgery concepts possible.
Surgery on the lateral skull base with the navigated controlled drill employed for a mastoidectomy (pre clinical evaluation).	Patients who are treated with a mastoidectomy usually suffer from an inflammation of the petrosal bone. The intervention is a time consuming landmark based surgery and usually performed with a powered drill. Delicate risk structures must be respected. Navigated Control (NC) describes the control for a power driven instrument which is controlled by a surgeon and additionally controlled according to the position of the instrument relatively to a deliberated position known from a preoperatively segmented work space which excludes risk structures. The force of a drill can be regulated by the principle of NC. Following results were received: 1. Risk structure segmentation is feasible 2. The drill and a phantom can be registered. 3. With NC the resection is faster, more accurate and with no risk structures damage. 4. The phantom is suitable.
FAIR-TrueFISP imaging of cerebral perfusion in areas of high magnetic susceptibility differences at 1.5 and 3 Tesla.	To estimate cerebral blood perfusion in areas of strong magnetic susceptibility changes with high spatial and temporal resolution using a flow-sensitive alternating inversion recovery (FAIR) arterial spin labeling (ASL) method.
Trigemino-cardiac reflex during transsphenoidal surgery for pituitary adenomas: methodological description of a prospective skull base study protocol.	A systematic clinical neuroscience protocol is described for the use to examine the trigemino-cardiac reflex (TCR) response in humans. Target neurosurgical conditions are operations that require manipulations around the peripheral and central part of the trigeminal nerve and its branches, e.g. the cerebellopontine angle or the sellar region. To assess the hemodynamic and cardiac responses of patients after TCR initiation, anesthetic monitoring has been applied. The TCR is defined as a drop of more than 20% of the heart rate and the mean arterial blood pressure compared with the baseline values before the stimulus and coinciding with the surgical manipulation at or around any branches of the trigeminal nerve. By help of illustrative cases, we present for the first time preliminary results regarding the differentiation of the TCR in a central and a peripheral induction during transsphenoidal surgery of pituitary adenomas. Based on these results, we can conclude that we have developed a battery of preoperative examination procedures based on event-related diagnostics that was useful to differentiate different subgroups of TCR during transsphenoidal surgery. The presented protocol can be performed directly pre-, intra- and postoperatively and applied for assessment of TCR even in patients with known risk factors.
Surgical approaches of anterior skull base tumors]	Study for surgical approaches on anterior skull base tumors.
Resection tumor of the anterior skull base region with extend external frontal sinus approach]	To study a better surgical approach for the resection of tumor in the anterior skull base and the fronto-orbito-ethmoidal region.
Impact of a self-developed planning and self-constructed navigation system on skull base surgery: 10 years experience.	Our self-developed planning and navigation system has proven its capacity for accurate surgery on the anterior and lateral skull base. With the incorporation of augmented reality, image-guided surgery will evolve into 'information-guided surgery'.
Trans-cranio-naso-orbital approach in treatment of ethmoid sinus malignant tumors: analysis of 39 cases]	To summarize the experience in treatment of ethmoid sinus malignant tumors via trans-cranio-naso-orbital approach. Post-operationally follow-up was conducted in 27 cases for 3.5 years (3 months to 7 years).
Reconstruction of maxillectomy defects with free flaps--comparison of immediate and delayed reconstruction: a retrospective analysis of 51 cases.	To establish a standard reconstructive material we compared outcomes after immediate and delayed reconstruction. Of the 21 patients who had immediate reconstruction, six patients had upper horizontal plane reconstruction. All bone grafts survived without infection or absorption. Of the 30 patients who had delayed reconstruction, 22 patients had upper horizontal plane reconstruction, with vascularised bone in 14 patients, non-vascularised bone or cartilage in five patients, and hydroxyapatite bone block in three. Postoperative infections developed in three of four patients for whom costal cartilage was used, and in all three patients for whom hydroxyapatite blocks were used. Non-vascularised bone or cartilage grafts are preferable for immediate reconstruction because of their technical simplicity. Vascularised bone grafts or osteocutaneous flaps are preferable for delayed reconstruction, however, as in most cases the operating field is contaminated by bacterial.
Image guidance systems for minimally invasive sinus and skull base surgery in children.	The use of image guidance for sinonasal and skull base surgery has been well-characterized in adults but there is limited information on the use of these systems in the pediatric population, despite their widespread use. The aim of this study is to evaluate the use of image guidance systems to facilitate an endoscopic minimally invasive approach to sinonasal and skull base surgery in a pediatric population.
Endonasal surgery of the ventral skull base--endoscopic transcranial surgery.	Skull base surgery is evolving from traditional transfacial and transcranial approaches to the endoscopic endonasal approach, a less intrusive corridor for accessing the ventral skull base. This technique eliminates facial scars, expedites recovery, and obviates brain retraction. The goals of surgical excision, whether palliative or curative, are identical: an approach that is less disruptive to normal tissues. By exploiting the sinonasal corridor, the entire ventral skull base may be accessed to successfully treat benign and malignant lesions. The expanding limits of endoscopic skull base surgery have been accompanied by commensurate innovations in reconstructive techniques that are reliable and have been shown to limit postoperative complications. This article describes the basis for this approach and provides the latest outcome data supporting the current state of the art for endoscopic skull base surgery.
Janus flap: bilateral nasoseptal flaps for anterior skull base reconstruction.	Large dural defects after extended endoscopic endonasal skull base resections require meticulous reconstruction to prevent a cerebrospinal fluid leak postoperatively. The nasoseptal flap is a vascularized tissue graft developed to aid in the multilayer reconstruction of the skull base. The purpose of this study is to describe the first experiences with bilateral nasoseptal flaps for reconstruction of very large skull base defects.
The transnasal approach to the skull base. From sinus surgery to skull base surgery]	The indications for endonasal endoscopic approaches to diseases of the skull base and its adjacent structures have expanded considerably during the last decades. This is not only due to improved technical possibilities such as intraoperative navigation, the development of specialized instruments, and the compilation of anatomical studies from the endoscopic perspective but also related to the accumulating experience with endoscopic procedures of the skull base by multidisciplinary centers. Endoscopic endonasal operations permit new approaches to deeply seated lesions and are characterized by a reduced manipulation of neurovascular structures and brain parenchyma while at the same time providing improved visualization. They reduce the trauma caused by the approach, avoid skin incisions and minimize the surgical morbidity. Transnasal endoscopic procedures for the closure of small and large skull base defects have proven to be reliable and more successful than operations with craniotomies. The development of new local and regional vascularized flaps like the Hadad-flap have contributed to this. These reconstructive techniques are furthermore effectively utilized in tumor surgery in this region. This review delineates the classification of expanded endonasal approaches in detail. They provide access to lesions of the anterior, middle and partly also to the posterior cranial fossa. Successful management of these complex procedures requires a close interdisciplinary collaboration as well as continuous education and training of all team members.
Prophylactic intravenous nimodipine treatment in skull base surgery: pharmacokinetic aspects.	Nimodipine is primarily used in subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Clinical trials revealed also a beneficial effect of prophylactic nimodipine treatment on cranial nerve functions following vestibular schwannoma surgery.
The frontotemporal-orbitozygomatic approach: reconstructive technique and outcome.	The frontotemporal-orbitozygomatic (FTOZ) approach, also known as "the workhorse of skull base surgery," has captured the interest of many researchers throughout the years. Most of the studies published have focused on the surgical technique and the gained exposure. However, few studies have described reconstructive techniques or functional and cosmetic outcomes. The goal of this study was to describe the surgical reconstruction after the FTOZ approach and analyze the functional and cosmetic outcomes.
Combined transnasal transcervical robotic dissection of posterior skull base: feasibility in a cadaveric model.	The current surgical trend is to expand the variety of minimally invasive approaches and, in particular,  the possible application of robotic surgery in head and neck surgery. For this purpose, we explored the feasibility of a combined transcervical-transnasal approach to the posterior skull base, using the da Vinci Surgical System in 3 cadaver heads. Superb visualization of the sellar, suprasellar and clival regions was possible in all three specimens. The trocars` placement through a transcervical port made a more cephalad visualization possible, eliminating the need to split the palate. The advantages of robotic surgery applied to the posterior cranial fossa are similar to the ones already clinically experienced in other districts (oropharynx, tongue base), in terms of tremor-free, bimanual, precise dissection. The implementation of instruments for bony work will definitely increase the applicability of such a system in the forthcoming years.
How we do it: mini posterior septal artery flap for coverage after transphenoidal approaches.	We propose a novel posterior nasal flap for use in endoscopic approaches to the sella and parasellar region that involve resection of the sphenoid face and a posterior nasal septectomy.  It involves elevation of the mucosa of the posterior septum and sphenoid face with preservation of the angiosome based on the posterior septal artery.  This flap has the advantages of maximal mucosal preservation in order to optimize postoperative healing and has been demonstrated to permit future elevation of a complete naso-septal flap for reconstruction of anterior skull base defects.  An illustration of the technique is provided.
Intradural anterior petrosectomy for petroclival meningiomas: a new surgical technique and results in 5 patients: technical note.	Excision of petroclival meningiomas remains a surgical challenge. Extradural anterior petrosectomy is widely used as a skull base approach for these tumors; however, this approach has significant procedure-related morbidity. The authors describe an alternative technique of tailored intradural petrosectomy for removal of petroclival meningiomas. This technique was used successfully in 5 patients. Gross-total or near-total resection was possible in 2 patients, whereas a subtotal removal was achieved in 3 patients, without significant morbidity. The petrous drilling was tailored depending on the extent of tumor. Transsylvian intradural anterior petrosectomy is a safe approach for petroclival meningiomas. This approach avoids problems related to subtemporal retraction and rationalizes the degree of bone drilling.
Application of computer assisted navigation system in endoscopic sinus and skull base surgery]	To evaluate the applicative value of computer assisted navigation system in endoscopic sinus and skull base surgery.
Reconstruction of the pedicled nasoseptal flap donor site with a contralateral reverse rotation flap: technical modifications and outcomes.	A pedicled nasoseptal flap is our preferred reconstructive technique after endoscopic endonasal skull base surgery. Its harvesting implies that the donor site (septal cartilage) is left bare. Secondary healing leads to crusting at the donor site that negatively affects the patient's quality of life and requires multiple outpatient debridements. A nasoseptal reverse rotation flap was designed to eliminate this problem; however, its outcomes have not been reported.
Bilateral modified nasoseptal "rescue" flaps in the endoscopic endonasal transsphenoidal approach.	For a wide exposure of skull base and preservation of septal mucosa, we have raised bilateral modified nasoseptal rescue flaps in the endoscopic endonasal transsphenoidal approach (EETSA) and evaluated the usefulness of these flaps elevation.
Innovative endoscopic sino-nasal and anterior skull base robotics.	Design a compact, ergonomic, and safe endoscope positioner dedicated to the sino-nasal tract, and the anterior and middle-stage skull base.
Abducens palsy after lumbar drain placement: a rare complication in endoscopic skull base surgery.	To study reports of abducens nerve palsy following dural puncture procedures and to discuss possible etiologic theories, treatment, and prognosis.
Beyond the nasoseptal flap: outcomes and pearls with secondary flaps in endoscopic endonasal skull base reconstruction.	Endoscopic endonasal skull base surgery defects require effective reconstruction. Although the nasoseptal flap (NSF) has become our institution's workhorse for large skull base defects with cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leaks, situations where it is unavailable require secondary flaps. Clinical outcomes, pearls and pitfalls, and an algorithm will be presented for these secondary flaps.
Augmented real-time navigation with critical structure proximity alerts for endoscopic skull base surgery.	Image-guided surgery (IGS) systems are frequently utilized during cranial base surgery to aid in orientation and facilitate targeted surgery. We wished to assess the performance of our recently developed localized intraoperative virtual endoscopy (LIVE)-IGS prototype in a preclinical setting prior to deployment in the operating room. This system combines real-time ablative instrument tracking, critical structure proximity alerts, three-dimensional virtual endoscopic views, and intraoperative cone-beam computed tomographic image updates.
The role of transoral robotic surgery in head and neck cancer]	Since 2000 and the commercialisation of the Da Vinci robotic system, indications for robotic surgery are rapidly increasing. Recent publications proved superior functional outcomes with equal oncologic safety in comparison to conventional open surgery. Its field of application may extend to the nasopharynx and skull base surgery. The preliminary results are encouraging. This article reviews the current literature on the role of transoral robotic surgery in head and neck cancer.
Quantifying surgical access in eyebrow craniotomy with and without orbital bar removal: cadaver and surgical phantom studies.	Eyebrow craniotomy is a recently described minimally invasive approach for tackling primarily pathology of the anterior skull base. The removal of the orbital bar may further expand the surgical corridor of this exposure, but the extent of benefit is poorly quantified. We assessed the effect of orbital bar removal with regards to surgical access in the eyebrow craniotomy using classic morphometric measurements in cadaver heads. Using surgical phantoms and neuronavigation, we also measured the 'working volume', a new parameter for characterising the volume of surgical access in these approaches.
The retro-auricular, transmastoid, infralabyrinth approach. A simple route for excision of tumors of the jugular foramen]	The jugular foramen is a complex area of the skull base. Its contents, the anatomical relationships in the region, and its location at the skull base, are responsible for problematic surgical approaches. The classical infratemporal surgical routes remain complex and difficult to perform. The lateral approach through a mastoidectomy is almost always associated with an anterior transposition of the facial nerve although that transposition is usually unnecessary.
Reconstruction of the vein of Labbé by using a short saphenous vein bypass graft. Technical note.	Protection of the vein of Labbé is a significant concern during surgery that involves retraction of the temporal lobe. A cranial base surgical approach, especially one via the presigmoid-petrosal route, carries considerable risk to this venous complex. A case is presented in which a large dominant vein of Labbé was injured during resection of a petroclival meningioma. This vein drained all the sylvian venous circulation as well as the lateral temporal surface; no connection to another venous system was noted. The vein was successfully reconstructed using a short saphenous vein bypass graft. Significant complications could have occurred without this reconstruction. The technique and benefits of this type of reconstruction are discussed.
The use of pedicle periosteal flap in plastic surgery of anterior skull base]	In 12 cases of large traumatic defects of the anterior skull base plastic surgery was performed using large periostial flap to separate the nasopharynx from the extradural area. After a large biauricular scalp flap was formed, precise preparation of periostial flap was done. The bifronto-transfrontal sinus or transfrontal sinus approach was performed. Next cranialization of the frontal sinus was done and then it was filled with muscle. Afterwards the floor of the frontal sinus and skull base with defect were covered with periostial flap pedicled along supraorbital ridge. Finally irradiated homograft of dura or fascia lata was glued intradurally onto the place of the dural defect. In all of the patients CSF-rhinorrhea stopped immediately after surgery. Among patients observed from 2 to 4 years after surgery neither recurrent rhinorrhea nor infection appeared.
Preoperative planning and intraoperative navigation in skull base surgery.	Experience with the commercially available, 3-D navigation systems Viewing Wand (ISG, Mississauga, Ontario, Canada) and SPOCS (Aesculap, Germany) in skull base surgery is presented. Having meanwhile been tested in over 60 clinical trials, the systems achieved an accuracy of < or = 2.7 mm which, at the moment, we deem sufficiently acceptable to proceed with their clinical evaluation. There was no difference in intraoperative accuracy between the mechanical and the optical navigation systems. The systems proved to be very helpful in identifying the extent of the tumours and in visualizing the proximity of vital structures. 3-D-planning, simulation and intraoperative navigation especially facilitates surgery in anatomically complicated situations, without risk of damaging neighbouring structures. The SPOCS (Surgical Planning and Orientation Computer System) revealed a considerably improved flexibility in handling and a better integration into the surgical procedure in comparison with the relatively inflexible and space-demanding Viewing Wand arm. Especially, the 'offset' function of the SPOCS offers the possibility of a virtual elongation of the instrument and thus, in combination with the on-line visualization of the corresponding images, of a 'look ahead' operation. By using computer-assisted simulation and navigation systems, we can expect quality improvement and risk reduction. More extensive and radical interventions seem possible.
An experimental approach to image guided skull base surgery employing a microscope-based neuronavigation system.	A cadaveric study was undertaken to investigate the usefulness and reliability of a microscope based navigation system (NS) for skull base surgery.
