Depressed skull fracture and epidural haematoma: an unusual post-operative complication of pin headrest in an adult.	Depressed skull fracture and epidural haematoma caused by pin headrest complicated the post-operative course in an adult, after removal of a parasagittal meningioma. The calvarial thickness was observed to be significantly reduced due to chronic high intracranial pressure. Potentially hazardous complications of pin headrests should not be underestimated in adults.
Comparison of accidental and nonaccidental traumatic head injury in children on noncontrast computed tomography.	Mixed-density convexity subdural hematoma and interhemispheric subdural hematoma suggest nonaccidental head injury. The purpose of this retrospective observational study is to investigate subdural hematoma on noncontrast computed tomography in infants with nonaccidental head injury and to compare these findings in infants with accidental head trauma for whom the date of injury was known.
Pedestrian accident analysis with a silicone dummy block.	When a car is parked in an inclined plane in a parking lot, the car can roll down the slope and cause a pedestrian accident, even when the angle of inclination is small. A rolling car on a gentle slope seems to be easily halted by human power to prevent damage to the car or a possible accident. However, even if the car rolls down very slowly, it can cause severe injuries to a pedestrian, especially when the pedestrian cannot avoid the rolling car. In an accident case that happened in our province, a pedestrian was injured by a rolling car, which had been parked on a slope the night before. The accident occurred in the parking lot of an apartment complex. The parking lot seemed almost flat with the naked eye. We conducted a rolling test with the accident vehicle at the site. The car was made to roll down the slope by purely gravitational pull and was made to collide with the silicone block leaning against the retaining wall. Silicone has characteristics similar to those of a human body, especially with respect to stiffness. In the experiment, we measured the shock power quantitatively. The results showed that a rolling car could severely damage the chest of a pedestrian, even if it moved very slowly.
