Genes modulating chemical breathing control: lessons from mutant animals.	Genetic factors influence breathing control. Respiratory phenotypes of mutant mice may help to better understand these factors. Congenital central hypoventilation syndrome (CCHS) is a rare disorder defined as failure of chemical control of breathing causing central alveolar hypoventilation, especially during sleep. A genetic basis for CCHS is supported by several arguments, mainly the identification, in a few CCHS patients, of heterozygous mutations of genes contributing to neural crest cell development, namely, genes involved in the endothelin and c-ret pathways. Furthermore, plethysmography studies of the respiratory phenotypes of newborn heterozygous mutant mice have shown that genes in both pathways are involved in breathing control at birth. Nevertheless, no single gene mutation in newborn mice reproduces the human CCHS phenotype. Avenues for future research into the genetics of CCHS include (i) testing of mutant newborn mice for genes in other pathways and (ii) use of microarrays to identify gene clusters that should be associated with abnormal chemical breathing control.
Haploinsufficiency for Phox2b in mice causes dilated pupils and atrophy of the ciliary ganglion: mechanistic insights into human congenital central hypoventilation syndrome.	Dilp1 is a semi-dominant mouse mutation that causes dilated pupils when heterozygous and is lethal when homozygous. We report here that it is caused by a point mutation that introduces a stop codon close to the start of the coding sequence of the paired-like homeobox transcription factor Phox2b. Mice carrying a targeted allele of Phox2b also have dilated pupils and the two alleles do not complement. Phox2b is necessary for the development of the autonomic nervous system and when absent one of the consequences is that all parasympathetic ganglia fail to form. Constriction of the pupil is a parasympathetic response mediated by the ciliary ganglion and we find that in Phox2b heterozygous mutants it is highly atrophic. The development of other parasympathetic and sympathetic ganglia appears to be largely unaffected indicating that the ciliary ganglion is exquisitely sensitive to a reduction in dose of this transcription factor. PHOX2B has been implicated in human disease. Mutations, principally leading to polyalanine expansions within the protein, have been found in patients with congenital central hypoventilation syndrome (CCHS), the cardinal feature of which is an inability to breathe unassisted when asleep. Additionally, some CCHS patients have ocular abnormalities, including pupillary defects, although they principally have constricted rather than dilated pupils. The apparent phenotypic differences observed between mice carrying a loss-of-function mutation of Phox2b and CCHS patients indicate that PHOX2B mutations found in CCHS patients, all of which can produce proteins with intact DNA-binding domains, are gain-of-function mutations that alter rather than abolish protein function.
A novel missense mutation in the PHOX2B gene is associated with late onset central hypoventilation syndrome.	We report the case of a 15-month-old male suffering from Late Onset Congenital Central Hypoventilation Syndrome and recto-sigmoid Hirschsprung's disease, an association that has not been reported thus far. Nevertheless, our patient showed a missense mutation of the PHOX2B gene already known in isolated late onset central hypoventilation, resulting in a substitution of the Ala140 residue with a Glu residue (p.A140E). The present association of LO-CHS and HSCR in a patient harboring a rare and atypical PHOX2B mutation allows to refine the mutational spectrum of this disease and suggests individualized ventilatory care along with specific surgical and oncological approaches.
Low amounts of PHOX2B expanded alleles in asymptomatic parents suggest unsuspected recurrence risk in congenital central hypoventilation syndrome.	Heterozygous trinucleotide in frame duplications, leading to expansions of variable lengths of a 20-alanine stretch (polyAla), is the most frequent PHOX2B variant associated with congenital central hypoventilation syndrome (CCHS), a rare neurocristopathy characterized by defective response of the autonomic nervous system to hypoxia and hypercapnia. Sequencing analysis has shown that the vast majority of polyAla expansions arise de novo; while in about 10% of cases, mutations are inherited by one parent who carries either constitutive or somatic mutations. To investigate transmission of PHOX2B mutant alleles from asymptomatic individuals, we have reassessed 44 parental pairs, previously resulted not to carry any mutation, by coupling amplification with FAM-tagged primers and capillary electrophoresis. Low levels of somatic mosaicism were shown in five parents previously undetected, thus increasing the inherited occurrence of the disease from 10% to 25% of the cases. Analysis of the technical detection limits has confirmed a power of resolution much higher for the "FAM" protocol than for the "sequencing" method. These observations are going to have relevant implications on how the carrier status of asymptomatic parents should be assessed and on successive genetic counseling to CCHS families.
Inheritance of polyalanine expansion mutation of PHOX2B in congenital central hypoventilation syndrome.	Congenital central hypoventilation syndrome (CCHS; MIM 209880) is caused mostly by dominant alanine expansion (most prevalent is 7-alanine expansion) mutations in PHOX2B. More than 90% of the alanine expansion mutations had been considered to be de novo due to unequal crossover during gametogenesis. However, a recent report stated that 25% of patients inherited the alanine-expanded allele from their parents with somatic mosaicism or constitutive mutation. We studied inheritance in 45 unrelated families, and found that one patient (2%) inherited 5-alanine expansion mutation from a parent with late-onset central hypoventilation syndrome and nine patients (20%) inherited 5- to 7-alanine expansion mutation from apparently asymptomatic parents with somatic mosaicism. Analysis using a sensitive method would be recommended to all parents of CCHS proband due to high incidence of somatic mosaicism. The absence of an alanine-contracted allele (expected counterpart allele in unequal crossover) and the highest prevalence of 6-alanine expansion mutation in somatic mosaicism suggest that the somatic mosaicism is likely caused by a mechanism other than an unequal crossover, such as a replication mechanism.
