Influence of fluoroquinolones on the central action of ethanol.	The influence of ciprofloxacin, ofloxacin and pefloxacin on acute toxicity of ethanol, ethanol-induced hypothermia, ethanol sleeping time was investigated in mice. Moreover, the combined effect of fluoroquinolones and ethanol on spontaneous locomotor activity, motor coordination in mice and ethanol abstinence syndrome in rats was examined. The fluoroquinolones (20 and 80 mg/kg) were injected intraperitoneally. The drugs were given in single or repeated doses for 7 days. In acute experiments, drugs were given 30 min before ethanol administration. In chronic experiments, the last dose of fluoroquinolones was given 18 h prior to ethanol injection. It has been shown that the fluoroquinolones decrease acute toxicity of ethanol, antagonize its hypothermic effect, decrease ethanol inhibitory effect on motor coordination in mice, and increase ethanol-induced hypermotility in mice and audiogenic seizure response in rats during alcohol abstinence syndrome. Ciprofloxacin and ofloxacin administered repeatedly increase the influence of ethanol on duration of ethanol-induced sleep. The influence of fluoroquinolones on ethanol central action depends on the drug used, its dose and route of administration.
Effects of muramyl peptides on macrophages, monokines, and sleep.	Muramyl peptides are fragments of peptidoglycan from the cell walls of bacteria. Because of their unique chemistry, the immune system recognizes that muramyl peptides are products of bacteria, and it responds by becoming activated to resist infection. This resistance to infection is nonspecific, and extends to unrelated species of bacteria, fungi, and viruses. A key mechanism of the resistance to infection is activation of macrophages. Macrophage activation results in increased production of microbicidal oxygen radicals like superoxide and peroxide, and in increased secretion of inflammatory cytokines like interleukin-1beta and tumor necrosis factor-alpha. These cytokines, besides activating neutrophils, B lymphocytes, and T lymphocytes, act on the central nervous system to induce physiological responses like fever and sleep. These physiological responses also aid in combating infection. Muramyl peptides also activate macrophages and other cells of the immune system to kill cancer cells. Muramyl peptides and similar agents will become more important as therapeutic agents in the future, due to increasing resistance of microbes to antibiotics, and increasing numbers of patients with immunodeficiencies.
Synthesis, toxicological and pharmacological assessment of morpholinooximes.	The synthesis, pharmacology and toxicology of four morpholine derivatives from 1-(2-arylmorpholino)-3-phenyl-3-propanonoxime and the synthesis of two anilides are described. The structures of the synthesized derivatives were proved by IR, 1H NMR and occasionally with 13C NMR. The acute toxicity of the compounds in mice was determined. A comparative pharmacological study of the in vivo effect on the central nervous system was realised by the following screening tests: pentobarbital induced sleeping time, locomotor activity and behaviour despair test for antidepressive activity. The most active compound was 1-(2-phenylmorpholino)-3-phenyl-3-propanonoxime (2b) which showed low toxicity and antidepressive activity at a dose of 1/10 LD50.
Effect of enzyme imprinting of liver microsomal monooxygenases upon lifespan of rats.	Effect of the enzyme imprinting by phenobarbital upon alterations of hepatic microsomal monooxygenase activities and lifespan of Wistar rats has been studied. Phenobarbital-sodium (3.5 mg/100 g body weight per day, i.p.) was injected during 1-3 days after birth. This resulted in the enzyme imprinting of the liver microsomal monooxygenases, however, this effect being observed in female but not male rats. In the phenobarbital treated female rats of different age the duration of sleeping time was significantly lower than that in control animals, whereas it did not differ substantially in male rats. The cytochrome P-450 content increased by 34.5% in phenobarbital treated female rats in the age of 12 months in comparison with control animals. A mean lifespan of experimental female rats increased by 17.5% compared to the level of control animals and did not change in male rats. The analysis of survival of animals in Gompertz equation coordinates showed that enzyme imprinting by phenobarbital caused changes in the mortality patterns at different stages of ontogenesis in experimental female but not male rats. An inverse correlation was found between the duration of pentobarbital sleeping time and lifespan of female and male rats.
Infusion of neurosteroids into the rat nucleus basalis affects paradoxical sleep in accordance with their memory modulating properties.	The neurosteroids pregnenolone sulfate and allopregnanolone affect memory processes in an opposite manner, pregnenolone sulfate acts as a potent memory-enhancer whereas allopregnanolone impairs memory performance. The mechanisms underlying these memory modulating properties have yet to be elucidated. We have previously reported that infusions of either neurosteroid into the nucleus basalis magnocellularis, one of the main forebrain cholinergic nuclei, differentially affect spatial memory in rats. The relationships between memory performance and paradoxical sleep are well documented, therefore we investigated whether neurosteroids infused into the nucleus basalis magnocellularis affected the sleep-wakefulness cycle in rats, measured by electroencephalographic recordings. Results show that pregnenolone sulfate (5 ng) increased by 12%, whereas allopregnanolone (2 ng) decreased by 24%, the duration of paradoxical sleep in the 24 h interval following injection compared to control recordings. Pregnenolone sulfate inhibits GABA(A) receptors whereas allopregnanolone stimulates them. Since cholinergic neurons of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis are GABA-modulated, it may be postulated that these neurosteroids modify paradoxical sleep by acting on the cholinergic transmission. This may account, at least in part, for the memory modulating properties of these compounds.
Nitric oxide and sleep in the rat: a puzzling relationship.	To date, only a few studies indicate that nitric oxide may play a role in the regulation of the sleep-wake cycle. However, data reported are controversial and the part played by nitric oxide in sleep-wake cycle regulation still remains uncertain. In the present report, we studied the effects on sleep amounts of two different nitric oxide synthase inhibitors: N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, a non-selective nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, and 7-nitro-indazole, a specific inhibitor of neuronal nitric oxide synthase. The above compounds were administered via two routes, i.e. intraperitoneally or locally in the dorsal raphe nucleus, a structure involved in sleep regulation. In order to evaluate their efficiency to inhibit nitric oxide synthesis in the rat brain, they were first administered intraperitoneally to a group of animals, and the cortical release of nitric oxide was determined by means of voltammetric measurements. N-Nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (100 mg/kg, i.p.) did not affect the cortical release of nitric oxide, whereas it increased both slow-wave sleep and paradoxical sleep durations. On the contrary, 7-nitro-indazole (40 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly decreased the cortical release of nitric oxide (-25%) and paradoxical sleep duration. Furthermore, following microinjection of either N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester or 7-nitro-indazole at 100 ng/0.20 microl into the nitric oxidergic cell area of the dorsal raphe nucleus, decreases in paradoxical sleep duration were obtained (-32.8% and -25.3%, respectively). The results obtained support the existence of a duality in the sleep regulation modalities exerted by nitric oxide, i.e. a peripheral inhibiting influence and a central facilitating role for the nitric oxide-serotoninergic neurons of the dorsal raphe nucleus.
Blockade of 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin)-2 receptors alters interleukin-1-induced changes in rat sleep.	Recent data suggest that interleukin-1-induced enhancement of non-rapid eye movement sleep is mediated, in part, by the serotonergic system. To determine if sleep changes induced by interleukin-1 are mediated by a specific serotonergic receptor subtype, we evaluated interleukin-1 effects on sleep in rats pretreated with the 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin)-2 receptor antagonist ritanserin. Ritanserin (0.63 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) by itself did not alter sleep-wake behavior, although it did reduce cortical brain temperature. Interleukin-1 (5 ng, intracerebroventricularly) enhanced non-rapid eye movement sleep, suppressed rapid eye movement sleep, and induced a moderate febrile response. Pretreatment with ritanserin completely blocked the febrile response to interleukin-1 and abolished the interleukin-1-induced enhancement in non-rapid eye movement sleep that occurred during postinjection hours 3-4, without altering interleukin-1 effects on rapid eye movement sleep. The present data suggest that serotonin may partially mediate interleukin-1 effects on sleep by interacting with 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin)-2 receptors. These results also suggest that interactions between the serotonergic system and interleukin-1 may be important in regulating sleep-wake behavior.
Antipsychotic profile of alstonine: ethnopharmacology of a traditional Nigerian botanical remedy.	Although recently developed drugs have brought significant improvement, the treatment of psychotic disorders still presents serious drawbacks. Since inherent complexity and lack of satisfactory understanding of the underlying pathophysiology impose limits for rational drug design, resourceful approaches in the search for antipsychotics are pertinent. This paper reports pharmacological properties of alstonine, a heteroyohimbine type alkaloid, which exhibited an antipsychotic-like profile, inhibiting amphetamine-induced lethality, apomorphine-induced stereotypy and potentiating barbiturate-induced sleeping time. Atypical features of alstonine were the prevention of haloperidol-induced catalepsy and lack of direct interaction with D1, D2 and 5-HT2A receptors, classically linked to antipsychotic mechanism of action.
Feline immunodeficiency virus envelope protein (FIVgp120) causes electrophysiological alterations in rats.	Close to 20% of the patients infected with the AIDS virus develops neurological deficit; eventhough HIV does not invade neurons. Consistently with the neurological deficit, HIV(+) subjects show abnormalities in brainstem auditory and visual evoked potentials (BSAEP and VEP) and in sleep patterns. The HIV-derived glycoprotein 120 has been postulated as a neurotoxic; therefore, it may be playing a crucial role in the generation of BSAEP and VEP, as well as in sleep disturbances. To study the role of the virus-derived proteins on the development of these electrophysiological signals' alterations, we have used the feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV)-derived gp120 and evaluated the changes in these electrophysiological signals. We employed 15 adult male Sprague-Dawley rats (250-350 g), chronically implanted for evoked potential and sleep recordings. Results showed that the i.c.v. administration of FIVgp120 (5 ng/10 microliter) produces changes in the latency of both cortical auditory evoked potentials (CAEPs) and VEPs and a decrease in both REM sleep and SWS. These data support the notion that FIVgp120 is neurotoxic to the central nervous system of cats and rats and that this protein suffices to cause electrophysiological alterations. In addition, it suggests that a similar effect may be occurring in humans as a result of HIVgp120's neurotoxic effects.
Effect of oleamide on sleep and its relationship to blood pressure, body temperature, and locomotor activity in rats.	Oleamide (cis-9,10-octadecenoamide) is a brain lipid that has recently been isolated from the cerebral fluid of sleep-deprived cats. Intracerebroventricular and intraperitoneal administration of oleamide induces sleep in rats. However, it is unclear whether oleamide's hypnogenic effects are mediated, in part, by its actions on blood pressure and core body temperature. Here we show that systemic administration of oleamide (10 and 20 mg/kg) in rats increased slow-wave sleep 2, without affecting blood pressure and heart rate. In addition, oleamide decreased body temperature and locomotor activity in a dose-dependent manner. These latter effects were not correlated in time with the observed increases in slow-wave sleep. These data suggest that the hypnogenic effects of oleamide are not related to changes in blood pressure, heart rate, or body temperature.
Wake-promoting and sleep-suppressing actions of hypocretin (orexin): basal forebrain sites of action.	The hypocretins (orexins) are a newly identified peptide family comprised of two peptides, hypocretin-1 and hypocretin-2. Recent observations suggest an involvement of these peptides in the regulation of behavioral state. For example, these peptides are found in a variety of brain regions associated with the regulation of forebrain neuronal and behavioral activity states. Furthermore, when infused into the lateral ventricles in awake animals, hypocretin-1 elicits increased duration of waking beyond that observed in vehicle-treated animals. Previous studies have been limited to an examination of the sleep-wake effects of hypocretin-1 in awake animals. Currently, the sleep-wake effects of hypocretin-2 and the extent to which hypocretins can initiate waking in the sleeping animal remain unclear. To better characterize the wake-promoting actions of the hypocretins, the current studies examined the sleep-wake effects of varying doses (0.007, 0.07 and 0.7 nmol) of hypocretin-1 and hypocretin-2 when administered into sleeping rats (e.g. remote-controlled infusions). Infusions of hypocretin-1 and hypocretin-2 into the lateral ventricles elicited a short latency (0.7 nmol hypocretin-1; 93+/-30 s from the start of the 120-s infusion) increase in electroencephalographic, electromyographic, and behavioral indices of waking. These infusions also produced substantial decreases in slow-wave and rapid-eye movement sleep. Hypocretin-1 was more potent than hypocretin-2 in these actions. Interestingly, hypocretin-1 infused into the fourth ventricle elicited less robust waking which occurred with a longer latency than infusions into the lateral ventricles. These latter observations suggest a forebrain site of action participates in hypocretin-1-induced waking. Within the forebrain, a variety of basal forebrain structures, including the medial preoptic area, the medial septal area and the substantia innominata, receive a moderate hypocretin innervation. Therefore, additional studies examined the sleep-wake effects of bilateral hypocretin-1 infusions into these basal forebrain structures. Robust increases in waking were observed following infusions into, but not outside, the medial septal area, the medial preoptic area and the substantia innominata. These results indicate a potentially prominent role of hypocretins in sleep-wake regulation via actions within certain basal forebrain structures and are consistent with studies indicating a prominent role of hypocretins in sleep/arousal disorders.
The sulphydryl reagent, N-ethylmaleimide, disrupts sleep and blocks A1 adenosine receptor-mediated inhibition of intracellular calcium signaling in the in vitro ventromedial preoptic nucleus.	To explore the neuronal signaling mechanisms underlying sleep regulation in the rat, the present study examined continuous intra-third ventricle infusion of N-ethylmaleimide (NEM), a sulphydryl reagent that inhibits G(i/o) protein-coupled receptor-mediated signaling pathways. The diurnal infusion of NEM (0.01-10 micromol/10 h) dose-dependently inhibited both non-rapid eye movement sleep and rapid eye movement sleep. A maximal dose of NEM (10 micromol/10 h) dramatically inhibited day-time sleep (-57% for non-rapid eye movement sleep and -89% for rapid eye movement sleep) with a compensatory increase of sleep during the subsequent night-time (+33% for non-rapid eye movement sleep and +259% for rapid eye movement sleep). The day-time brain temperature was also increased by NEM, demonstrating effects of NEM on both sleep and body temperature levels. Immunostaining of the rat hypothalamus with a monoclonal antibody against the A1 adenosine receptor (A1R) was used to explore the distribution of a sleep-related G(i/o) protein-coupled receptor. Robust A1R-like immunoreactivity was found in the ventromedial preoptic nucleus and the supraoptic nucleus. Fura-2-based Ca(2+) imaging analysis of acute hypothalamic slices further demonstrated that the A1R agonist N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA; 200 nM) inhibited spontaneous Ca(2+) oscillations and high potassium (80 mM)-induced Ca(2+) flux in the ventromedial preoptic nucleus, while NEM (100-300 microM) and an A1R antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-dipropylxanthine (300 nM) blocked the CPA actions and increased the high potassium-induced Ca(2+) flux. From these results we suggest that NEM-sensitive G protein-coupled receptor(s) may play an important role in the regulation of sleep and body temperature in the rat and one possible mechanism is an A1R-mediated regulation of intracellular Ca(2+) concentrations in the ventromedial preoptic nucleus.
The hypnotic actions of the fatty acid amide, oleamide.	Oleamide is an endogenous fatty acid amide which can be synthesized de novo in the mammalian nervous system, and has been detected in human plasma. It accumulates in the CSF of rats after six hours of sleep deprivation and induces sleep in naive rats and mice. Inhibition of the primary catabolic enzyme of oleamide (fatty acid amide hydrolase) by trifluoromethyl-octadecenone reduces sleep latency and increases total sleep time when given centrally to rats and peripherally to mice. While the mechanism of action of oleamide is unclear, it has been demonstrated to increase the amplitude of currents gated by 5-HT2a, 5HT2c and GABAa receptors. Moreover, the action of oleamide most relevant to sleep induction involves, in part, cannabinergic pathways, as evidenced by the ability of the cannabinoid antagonist SR 141716 to inhibit the hypnotic actions of OA. Nonetheless, enhancement of cannabinergic function may not be the only mechanism by which OA alters sleep, as it can act synergistically with subthreshold doses of triazolam (0.125 microg) to reduce sleep latency. These findings raise the possibility that OA may be representative of a group of compounds which might be developed into clinically-used hypnotics, and are discussed in the context of fatty acid derivatives as modulators of neuronal function.
The effects of nitric oxide synthase inhibitors on the sedative effect of clonidine.	The mechanism underlying the Niteroi, Rio de Janeiro sedative effect of clonidine, an alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist, remains uncertain. Because activation of alpha2-adrenoceptors induces release of nitric oxide (NO), we tested the hypothesis that the sedative effect of clonidine depends on NO-related mechanisms. The effect of 7-nitro indazole on the sleeping time induced by clonidine was studied in Wistar rats. In addition, we examined the effect of clonidine, alpha-methyldopa, and midazolam on the thiopental-induced sleeping time in rats pretreated with N(G)-nitro-L-arginine-methyl-ester (L-NAME). The sleeping time induced by clonidine was significantly decreased by 7-nitro indazole. Thiopental sleeping time was increased by clonidine, alpha-methyldopa, and midazolam. L-NAME reduced the prolongation effect of clonidine and alpha-methyldopa, but did not alter the effect of midazolam on the thiopental-induced sleeping time. The inhibitory effect of L-NAME on clonidine-dependent prolongation of thiopental-induced sleeping time was reversed by L-arginine. These results suggest that NO-dependent mechanisms are involved in the sedative effect of clonidine. In addition, this effect seems to be specific for the sedative action of alpha2-adrenoceptors agonists.
Sydnone derivatives. Part VII: Synthesis of some novel thiazoles and their pharmacological properties.	The synthesis of some 4-(arylsydnonyl)-2-(4-arylhydrazono-3-methyl-5-oxo-2-pyrazolin-1-yl)- thiazoles by reacting 1-thiocarboxamido-3-methyl-4-(aryihydrazono)-2-pyrazolin-5-ones with different 4-bromoacetyl-3-arylsydnones is described. A few compounds from this series were screened for their anti-inflammatory, analgesic, and CNS depressant activities. Among the tested compounds 6s, 6d, 6n, and 6u showed significant anti-inflammatory activity comparable with that of standard drug Ibuprofen. Compounds containing chlorine and carboxylic substituents are more active. 6f, 6r, and 6u showed marked analgesic activity and most of the compounds tested showed promising CNS depressant activity comparable with that of standard drug pentobarbitone.
Effect of Ocimum sanctum fixed oil on blood pressure, blood clotting time and pentobarbitone-induced sleeping time.	Ocimum sanctum fixed oil produced hypotensive effect in anaesthetised dog, which seems to be due to its peripheral vasodilatory action. The oil increased blood-clotting time and percentage increase was comparable to aspirin and could be due to inhibition of platelet aggregation. The oil also increased pentobarbitone-induced sleeping time in rats indicating probable inhibitory effect of oil towards cytochromic enzyme responsible for hepatic metabolism of pentobarbitone.
Behavioral effects of the aqueous extract of Guiera senegalensis in mice and rats.	Behavioral effects of the aqueous extract of Guiera senegalensis on the central nervous system of mice and rats were investigated. Spontaneous motor activity, pentobarbital sleeping time, amphetamine-stereotyped behavior, exploratory activity and performance on treadmills (rota-rod) were evaluated. The results revealed that the aqueous extract of G. senegalensis reduced spontaneous motor activity in mice, prolonged the duration of pentobarbital sleeping time in rats and attenuated amphetamine-induced stereotype behavior in rats. The extract also decreased exploratory activity in mice and had no observable effects on motor coordination (rota-rod) at the doses tested. The results suggested that the crude aqueous extract of G. senegalensis possesses some biologically active principles that are sedative in nature.
Effects of melatonin administration on daytime sleep after simulated night shift work.	Disturbed sleep and on-the-job sleepiness are widespread problems among night shift workers. The pineal hormone melatonin may prove to be a useful treatment because it has both sleep-promoting and circadian phase-shifting effects. This study was designed to isolate melatonin's sleep-promoting effects, and to determine whether melatonin could improve daytime sleep and thus improve night time alertness and performance during the night shift. The study utilized a placebo-controlled, double-blind, cross-over design. Subjects (n=21, mean age=27.0 +/- 5.0 years) participated in two 6-day laboratory sessions. Each session included one adaptation night, two baseline nights, two consecutive 8-h night shifts followed by 8-h daytime sleep episodes and one recovery night. Subjects took 1.8 mg sustained-release melatonin 0.5 h before the two daytime sleep episodes during one session, and placebo before the daytime sleep episodes during the other session. Sleep was recorded using polysomnography. Sleepiness, performance, and mood during the night shifts were evaluated using the multiple sleep latency test (MSLT) and a computerized neurobehavioral testing battery. Melatonin prevented the decrease in sleep time during daytime sleep relative to baseline, but only on the first day of melatonin administration. Melatonin increased sleep time more in subjects who demonstrated difficulty in sleeping during the day. Melatonin had no effect on alertness on the MSLT, or performance and mood during the night shift. There were no hangover effects from melatonin administration. These findings suggest that although melatonin can help night workers obtain more sleep during the day, they are still likely to face difficulties working at night because of circadian rhythm misalignment. The possibility of tolerance to the sleep-promoting effects of melatonin across more than 1 day needs further investigation.
A double-blind, randomized and placebo-controlled study on the polysomnographic withdrawal effects of zopiclone, zolpidem and triazolam in healthy subjects.	Rebound effects after withdrawal from hypnotics are believed to trigger their chronic use and to enhance the risk of tolerance and dependence. It was the purpose of this study to investigate the acute polysomnographic withdrawal effects after a 4 week treatment with standard doses of the non-benzodiazepine hypnotics zopiclone and zolpidem compared with triazolam and placebo. Healthy male subjects between 22 and 35 years of age participated in a parallel study design. They received either zopiclone 7.5 mg (n=11), zolpidem 10 mg (n=11), triazolam 0.25 mg (n=10) or placebo (n=7) over 4 weeks in randomized and double-blind order. Sleep EEG was registered during 2 nights before treatment under placebo, on days 1, 27 and 28 of treatment and on days 29,30,41 and 42 under placebo. Total sleep time and sleep efficiency were lower in the 1st night after discontinuation of triazolam (p < 0.05, t-test). After withdrawal from zopiclone or zolpidem slight but not significant rebound effects concerning sleep continuity were observed. Self-rating scales showed minimal rebound insomnia after discontinuation of all three hypnotics. In the placebo group no changes of sleep parameters were observed. Assuming that rebound insomnia is part of a withdrawal reaction, this study indicates that the risks of tolerance and dependency are low when administering zopiclone or zolpidem at the recommended doses.
Medication effects on sleep.	Each person spends one third of his or her life asleep. It is not surprising that such a complex and pervasive cognitive state should be affected by drugs in many different ways. A philosophy that remains cogent for the CNS is that new research almost always shows this system to be more complex than previously thought. Only a few years ago, if patients complained of difficulty sleeping, they were given pills, often dangerous and addictive pills, to induce sleep no matter what the basis of the complaint might be. Sleeping pills may be safer now, and the understanding of the sleep state itself has increased rapidly. Diagnoses are still diffuse, however, and treatments are often poorly directed. Depression is the offspring of the phlegmatic disposition and the melancholia of another era. Clinically, diagnosis is based on a global assessment of symptoms. It is likely that a diagnosis of depression may include a spectrum of underlying diseases that cannot now be clinically differentiated. Medications have multiple effects on sleep and have many side effects. Progress has, however, been made beyond mother's little pills. Insomnia is no longer a diagnosis but a complaint to be addressed--a symptom of 1 of 60 potential sleep disorders. Each of these disorders has specific and appropriate treatments.
Developmental alterations of ethanol sensitivity in selectively bred high and low alcohol sensitive rats.	Initial sensitivity and acute tolerance to ethanol have been implicated as risk factors in the development of alcoholism in humans. These behaviors were investigated in rats selectively bred for differences in hypnotic sensitivity following their first dose of ethanol in two different experiments. In Experiment 1, developmental profiles of the association between initial sensitivity and acute tolerance induced by a single exposure to ethanol were examined using male and female high, low, and control alcohol sensitive (HAS, LAS, and CAS) rats. Dose-response curves were constructed for duration of the loss of the righting reflex and for blood ethanol concentration (BEC) at the regain of the righting reflex. Animals were tested with a single ethanol dose ranging from 1.5 to 5.0 g/kg at either 15, 25, 40, 70, 120, or 180 days of age (DOA). For each group, acute tolerance to ethanol was estimated by the slope of the regression line using dose of ethanol and mean BEC at regain. In general, all rat lines showed an increase in hypnotic sensitivity to ethanol with age. To a large degree, the lower sensitivity observed in 15 and 25 DOA HAS and LAS rats was associated with an increase in the development of acute ethanol tolerance relative to older rats. Divergence of the LAS and CAS lines was evident by 25 DOA and remained stable with advancing age. However, HAS rats did not differ significantly from CAS rats until 40 DOA, after which the magnitude of the difference continued to increase with age. In Experiment 2, rats were treated with alcohol at 25, 70, or 180 DOA. Rats at 70 or 180 DOA required less ethanol to disrupt their motor coordination on a rotating dowel (rotarod). Blood ethanol levels were determined at the loss and subsequent regain of the ability to negotiate the rotarod. Total duration of inability to negotiate the rotarod also was recorded. HAS rats were less able to remain on a rotarod while under the influence of alcohol relative to LAS and CAS rats regardless of age. However, no evidence of acute tolerance was observed in this experiment and, in fact, there was evidence of reverse tolerance in that all animals had lower BEC values at regain of ability than they did at loss.
Electrophysiological analysis of suprachiasmatic nucleus projections to the ventrolateral preoptic area in the rat.	The circadian pacemaker housed in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) synchronizes daily sleep-wake cycles, presumably by modulating the sleep-wake regulatory system, including ventrolateral preoptic area (VLPO) neurons. We used whole-cell patch-clamp recording to study the projections from the SCN to the VLPO in horizontal slices of rat hypothalamus. Single-pulse stimulation of the SCN region elicited postsynaptic currents (PSCs) in 20 of 66 neurons (30%) recorded within the VLPO region as verified by intracellular biocytin labelling. At a holding potential of -60 mV, the evoked PSCs had an amplitude of 17.6 +/- 3.2 pA (SEM) and a latency of 6.3 +/- 0.5 ms (n = 10). There was a trend for simple excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) to be evoked in the VLPO cluster, simple inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) in the extended VLPO, and a combination of EPSCs and IPSCs in both regions. IPSCs were blocked reversibly by bicuculline (10 microm, n = 11). In both the presence and absence of bicuculline, EPSCs had fast and slow components that were blocked by 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX; 10 microm; n = 7), and (+/-)3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP; 10 microm, n = 6), respectively. Reversal potentials for the evoked IPSCs and EPSCs were consistent with mediation via GABAA and ionotropic glutamate receptors, respectively. These results suggest that the SCN region provides both inhibitory and excitatory inputs to single VLPO neurons, which are mediated, respectively, by GABAA receptors and by both non-NMDA and NMDA glutamate receptors. These projections may play important roles in conveying circadian input to systems in the preoptic area that regulate sleep and waking.
Acute effects of low doses of melatonin on the sleep of young healthy subjects.	This study was undertaken to evaluate the acute effects of single low doses of melatonin given to healthy volunteers in the evening. Six healthy male volunteers (age range 22-24 years) participated in this study, after signing an informed consent form. They received in a double-blind fashion placebo or 0.3 or 1.0 mg melatonin at three fixed times: 18:00, 20:00, and 21:00 hr. Polysomnographic recordings began immediately thereafter, with their being allowed to sleep. Prior to each experimental session and in the following morning, subjects completed a sleep quality questionnaire, the Profile of Mood States, the Stanford Sleepiness Scale, and underwent a visual reaction test. Significant decrease on sleep latencies was found following melatonin treatment at 18:00 and 20:00 hr. In addition, melatonin tended to improve sleep efficiency and to reduce intermittent wakefulness. However, at 21:00 hr, 0.3 mg melatonin increased latency to sleep onset and 1.0 mg melatonin had no effect on sleep variables. Furthermore, melatonin given at different times did not alter subjective sleepiness, mood, and reaction time in the following morning. The results from the present study support the notion that administration of low doses of melatonin, mimicking the nocturnal physiological concentration of this hormone may exert immediate sleep-inducing effects.
Sleep-promoting activity of prolactin-releasing peptide (PrRP) in the rat.	The present study examines whether or not prolactin-releasing peptide (PrRP) infused intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) affects sleep and the release of prolactin (PRL) and growth hormone (GH) in rats. At a dose of 0.1 nmol, PrRP promoted rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep, whereas 1.0 nmol increased both non-REM and REM sleep and 10.0 nmol enhanced only non-REM sleep. During the i.c.v. infusion of PrRP with 0.1 nmol, levels of plasma PRL were elevated, but GH levels were significantly decreased. Since it is reported that PrRP fails to induce PRL release from the male pituitary, the stimulatory effects of PrRP on PRL release observed here seem to be indirect. However, PRL stimulated by i.c.v.-infused PrRP could take part in the REM sleep-promoting activity of PrRP.
Alterations in EEG activity and sleep after influenza viral infection in GHRH receptor-deficient mice.	Viral infections induce excess non-rapid eye movement sleep (NREMS) in mice. Growth hormone-releasing hormone receptor (GHRH receptor) was previously identified as a candidate gene responsible for NREMS responses to influenza challenge in mice. The dwarf lit/lit mouse with a nonfunctional GHRH receptor was used to assess the role of the GHRH receptor in viral-induced NREMS. After influenza A virus infection the duration and intensity [electroencephalogram (EEG) delta power] of NREMS increased in heterozygous mice with the normal phenotype, whereas NREMS and EEG delta power decreased in homozygous lit/lit mice. Lit/lit mice developed a pathological state with EEG slow waves and enhanced muscle tone. Other influenza-induced responses (decreases in rapid eye movement sleep, changes in the EEG high-frequency bands during the various stages of vigilance, hypothermia, and decreased motor activity) did not differ between the heterozygous and lit/lit mice. GH replacement failed to normalize the NREMS responses in the lit/lit mice after influenza inoculation. Decreases in NREMS paralleled hypothermia in the lit/lit mice. Lung virus levels were similar in the two mouse strains. Lit/lit mice had a higher death rate after influenza challenge than the heterozygotes. In conclusion, GHRH signaling is involved in the NREMS response to influenza infection.
H3 agonist immepip markedly reduces cortical histamine release, but only weakly promotes sleep in the rat.	Presynaptic H3 receptors exert negative control on brain histamine synthesis and release and may thereby play a key role in the control of the sleep/wake cycle. This suggests that pharmacological stimulation by H3 receptor agonists may potentially decrease wakefulness and induce sleep. This study reports the effect of a potent and selective H3 agonist, immepip, on EEG assessed sleep/wake phases in Sprague-Dawley rats at doses that significantly modulate brain histamine release. Immepip injected intraperitoneally (i.p.) at 5 or 10 mg kg(-1) induced a sustained decrease in cortical histamine efflux as measured by in vivo microdialysis. In a separate experiment, rats were prepared for EEG/EMG recording and evaluated during the dark phase of their light/dark cycle. The results showed that the same i.p. doses of 5 and 10 mg kg(-1) of immepip was devoid of any significant impact on the sleep/wake phases (active awake, drowsiness and slow wave sleep), except for a slight, albeit significant, decrease in sleep onset latency. These results reveal that a marked H3 receptor agonist-mediated reduction in cortical histamine release is not corroborated by a significant sleep promoting effect and therefore question the hypnotic potential of H3 agonists.
Effectiveness of melatonin in the treatment of sleep disturbances in children with Asperger disorder.	Sleep disturbances are common in patients with Asperger disorder. Although these sleep problems are often persistent and may significantly impair the child's daytime well-being, no treatment studies have been reported. In this open clinical trial, the effectiveness of melatonin was studied in a sample of 15 children with Asperger disorder (13 boys, 2 girls) aged 6-17 years using several questionnaires and actigraph measurements. They included assessments of sleep quality, tiredness, and behavior. Melatonin (3 mg/day) was used for 14 days. All the measurements were made three times: before the treatment period, during the treatment (days 12-14), and 3 weeks after the discontinuation of the treatment. The sleep patterns of all the children improved, and half of them displayed excellent responses to melatonin. In particular, actigraphically measured sleep latency decreased from 40.02 +/- 24.09 minutes to 21.82 +/- 9.64 minutes (p = 0.002), whereas sleep duration remained steady at 477.40 +/- 55.56 minutes and 480.48 +/- 50.71 minutes. Despite the short duration of the treatment, behavioral measures also displayed a significant improvement, and most of the effect disappeared after the discontinuation of the melatonin (p = 0.001). In conclusion, melatonin may provide an interesting new and well-tolerated treatment option for children with Asperger disorder suffering from chronic insomnia. However, these results must be confirmed in a controlled study.
Characteristics of the antihistamine effect of TAK-427, a novel imidazopyridazine derivative.	The characteristics of the antihistamine effect of the new antiallergic compound TAK-427 were investigated.
Subnormal alpha-2-adrenoceptor-mediated sedation during 6 months of sobriety in male type 1 alcohol-dependent subjects.	In the present study, alpha(2)-adrenoceptor function was investigated over 6 months of sobriety in eight male alcohol-dependent subjects.
A novel class of peptide found in scorpion venom with neurodepressant effects in peripheral and central nervous system of the rat.	A novel toxin, named Cll9, was isolated from the venom of the scorpion Centruroides limpidus limpidus Karsch. It is composed of 63 amino acid residues closely packed by four disulfide bridges. It showed no apparent effect when injected to insects, crustaceans and i.p. to mice. However, when i.c.v. injected in the rat it immediately induced sleep, suggesting that it has a neurodepressant effect. We confirmed this by showing that it has a strong antiepileptic action, as assessed with the penicillin focus model. Its effectiveness in inhibiting Na(+) permeability in (cultured) rat peripheral ganglia further supports its neurodepressant actions. However, this peptide did not affect other Na(+) channels such as those from cerebellum granular cells in culture or the rSkM1 Na(+) channels expressed in HEK293. The cDNA and genomic regions encoding this peptide were cloned and sequenced. This peptide is synthesized as a precursor of 84 amino acid residues and processed by removing 19 amino acids (signal peptide) from the amino terminal region and a couple of lysine residues from the carboxyl end. The presence of an intron of 777 bases interrupting the region encoding the signal peptide was also revealed. A comparison of its primary sequence, with more than 100 scorpion toxins known, showed that together with toxin CsE9 they constitute a new subfamily of peptides considered to be one of the most divergent groups of scorpion toxin-like peptides discovered.
Anesthetic sensitivities to propofol and halothane in mice lacking the R-type (Cav2.3) Ca2+ channel.	Because inhibition of voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels can be a mechanism underlying general anesthesia, we examined sensitivities to propofol and halothane in mice lacking the R-type (Ca(v)2.3) channel widely expressed in neurons. Sleep time after propofol injection (26 mg/kg IV) and halothane MAC(RR) and MAC (50% effective concentrations for the loss of the righting reflex and for the tail pinch/withdrawal response, respectively) were determined. Significantly shorter propofol-induced sleep time (291.6 +/- 16.8 s versus 344.4 +/- 12.1 s) and larger halothane MAC(RR) (1.11% +/- 0.04% versus 0.98% +/- 0.03%) were observed in Ca(v)2.3 channel knockouts (Ca(v)2.3(-/-)) than in wild-type (Ca(v)2.3(+/+)) litter mates. To investigate the basis of the decreased anesthetic sensitivities in vivo, field excitatory postsynaptic potentials and population spikes (PSs) were recorded from Schaffer collateral CA1 synapses in hippocampal slices. Propofol (10-30 micro M) inhibited PSs by potentiating gamma-aminobutyric acid-ergic inhibition, and this potentiation was markedly smaller at 30 micro M in Ca(v)2.3(-/-) mice, possibly accounting for the decreased propofol sensitivity in vivo. Halothane (1.4%-2.2%) inhibited field excitatory postsynaptic potentials similarly in both genotypes, whereas 1%-2% halothane depressed PSs more in Ca(v)2.3(-/-) mice, suggesting the postsynaptic role of the R-type channel in the propagation of excitation and other mechanisms underlying the increased halothane MAC(RR) in Ca(v)2.3(-/-) mice.
Hepatoprotective effect of the extract and isocytisoside from Aquilegia vulgaris.	The hepatoprotective effect of the ethanol extract (AvEE) and the main fl avonoid compound 4'-methoxy-5,7-dihydroxy fl avone 6-C-beta-glucopyranoside (isocytisoside, ISOC) from the leaves and stems of Aquilegia vulgaris L. were studied using the CCl(4)-induced hepatotoxicity test. The acute toxicity test in mice showed that AvEE can be classi fi ed as nontoxic since a dose of 3000 mg/ kg did not cause mortality. The barbiturate-induced sleeping time prolonged by CCl(4) administration to mice was signi fi cantly reduced after AvEE treatment proving the protective effect of the extract on microsomal drug-metabolizing enzymes.AvEE and ISOC administered to rats 48 h, 24 h and 2 h before, and 6 h after CCl(4) intoxication caused a signi fi cant decrease in the CCl(4)-induced elevation of hepatic enzymes activity in serum, i.e. sorbitol dehydrogenase (SDH), glutamate oxaloacetate and glutamate pyruvate transaminases (GOT, GPT). Both substances induced CCl(4)-diminished erythrocyte superoxide dismutase (SOD) and reduced the activities of glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and glutathione reductase (GR) preliminarily enhanced by CCl(4). The hepatoprotective properties of AvEE and ISOC were con fi rmed by pathomorphological examination of the liver.
The alerting effects of dexamethasone.	The purpose of this study was to characterize the level of sleepiness/alertness following the nocturnal administration of dexamethasone. Thirteen healthy men participated in this study. Following the initial screening, dexamethasone (4 mg) or placebo was administered at 22:30 hr in a randomized double-blind procedure. Subjects were given nap opportunities at 23:00, 1:00, 3:00, 4:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30, 11:30, 13:30, 15:30, 17:30, and 19:30 hr. The administration of dexamethasone resulted in an overall lengthening of sleep latency. Although the two groups displayed comparable latencies to stage 1 for the 23:00-7:30 hr nap opportunities, the administration of dexamethasone resulted in significantly longer latencies on the 9:30-19:30 hr nap opportunities. Consistent with these results, participants reported significantly greater levels of alertness on the Stanford Sleepiness Scale. The results of this study revealed greater levels of daytime alertness following the nocturnal administration of dexamethasone.
Insomnia, metabolic rate and sleep restoration.	Studies have shown occasional evidence of increased physiological activity in patients with primary insomnia. We hypothesized that metabolic rate, as measured by overall oxygen use (VO2), might be a more general index of increased physiological activity. An initial experiment found elevated VO2 both at night and during the day in patients with primary insomnia as compared with matched normal sleepers. A second experiment found significant but more modest increases in VO2 in patients with Sleep State Misperception Insomnia [who complain of poor sleep but who had normal sleep by electroencephalographic (EEG) criteria]. In a third experiment, normal young adults were given caffeine 400 mg three times per day (TID) for 1 week as a means of increasing VO2 and possibly producing other symptoms of insomnia. Participants developed many symptoms consistent with those seen in patients with primary insomnia (poor sleep, increased latency on the Multiple Sleep Latency Test, increasing fatigue despite physiological activation, and increased anxiety on the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI)). In a final experiment, physiological arousal was again produced by caffeine to determine if sleep with elevated arousal would be less restorative. All subjects (Ss) slept for 3.5 h after being given 400 mg of caffeine. During 41 h of sleep deprivation that followed, there was no significant condition difference for the Multiple Sleep Latency Test or mood measures. The results provided only weak support for the idea that sleep is less restorative after physiological arousal.
Acute pharmacological effects of temazepam, diphenhydramine, and valerian in healthy elderly subjects.	Elderly insomniacs are often treated pharmacologically with benzodiazepines, antihistamines, or natural products. A double-blind, randomized, crossover, placebo-controlled study was performed to assess the comparative pharmacodynamics of single doses of temazepam (15 and 30 mg), diphenhydramine (50 and 75 mg), and valerian (400 and 800 mg) in 14 healthy elderly volunteers (mean age, 71.6 years; range, 65-89). Assessments were made at 0, 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, and 8 hours postdosing with use of validated measures of subjective sedation and mood (visual analogue scales, Tufts University Benzodiazepine scale) and psychomotor performance (manual tracking and digit symbol substitution tests). Temazepam had dose-dependent effects on sedation and psychomotor ability with a distinct time course. Temazepam 30 mg had the most detrimental effect on psychomotor ability (p < 0.001 compared with all other treatments). Temazepam 30 mg and both doses of diphenhydramine elicited significantly greater sedation than placebo (p < 0.05, all), and temazepam had the greatest effect. There was no difference in sedation scores between 50 and 75 mg diphenhydramine. Sedative effects were slightly lesser with 15 mg temazepam and were not significant in comparison with placebo. Psychomotor impairment was evident after administration of 75 mg diphenhydramine in comparison with placebo on the manual tracking test (p < 0.05); this was less than the impairment with 30 mg temazepam (p < 0.001) but similar to that with 15 mg temazepam (NS). No psychomotor impairment was detected with 50 mg diphenhydramine. Valerian was not different from placebo on any measure of psychomotor performance or sedation.
Tolerance to the hypnotic and electroencephalographic effect of gamma-hydroxybutyrate in the rat: pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic aspects.	Tolerance to gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB) has been suggested in illicit users and has been described for the hypnotic effect in the rat. The aim of this study was to investigate whether tolerance is also observed for the EEG effect, and whether the EEG can give insight into the pharmacodynamic aspects of GHB tolerance. In three series of experiments, rats were pre-treated with either the GHB precursor gamma-butyrolactone (GBL) or saline intraperitoneally twice daily. In the first series, a reduction in sleeping time was observed in the GBL pre-treated rats compared with controls. In the second series, a fast infusion of GHB (300 mg kg(-1) over 5 min) was given after 10 days pre-treatment. The GHB plasma concentration-time curves showed a slightly faster decrease in GHB concentration in the GBL pre-treated rats, suggesting a small induction of the GHB metabolism (V(max) = 2882 +/- 457 microg min(-1) kg(-1) vs 2205 +/- 315 microg min(-1) kg(-1), P < 0.01). In contrast to controls, GBL pre-treated rats did not lose righting reflex. In the third series, a slow infusion of 480 mg kg(-1) h(-1) was given after 7 days pre-treatment, which allowed fitting a sigmoid E(max) model to the EEG amplitude versus GHB plasma concentration curve. This showed reduced end-organ sensitivity to GHB in the GBL pre-treated rats (EC50 (concentration required to obtain 50% depression of the baseline effect) = 653+/- 183 microg mL(-1) vs 323 +/- 68 microg mL(-1), P < 0.001). In conclusion, chronic pre-treatment with gamma-butyrolactone in the rat results in a reduced sleeping time and this tolerance is reflected by the EEG. This can mainly be explained by reduced end-organ sensitivity.
Effects of adenosine on gabaergic synaptic inputs to identified ventrolateral preoptic neurons.	The ventrolateral preoptic nucleus (VLPO) is a key regulator of behavioral state that promotes sleep by directly inhibiting brain regions that maintain wakefulness. Subarachnoid administration of adenosine (AD) or AD agonists promotes sleep and induces expression of Fos protein in VLPO neurons. Therefore, activation of VLPO neurons may contribute to the somnogenic actions of AD. To define the mechanism through which AD activates VLPO neurons, we prepared hypothalamic slices from 9 to 12-day-old rat pups and recorded from 43 neurons in the galaninergic VLPO cluster; nine neurons contained galanin mRNA by post hoc in situ hybridization. Bath application of AD (20 microM) to seven of these neurons had no direct effect but caused a significant decrease in the frequency of spontaneous miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents in the presence of tetrodotoxin, indicating a presynaptic site of action. We conclude that AD-mediated disinhibition increases the excitability of VLPO neurons thus contributing to the somnogenic properties of AD.
Intracerebral oxytocin modulates sleep-wake behaviour in male rats.	Oxytocin released within the brain under basal conditions and in response to stress is differentially involved in the regulation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Because the HPA axis plays an important role in the regulation of wakefulness, central oxytocin may modulate sleep-wake behaviour. In the present vehicle-controlled study, we assessed the influence of a selective oxytocin receptor antagonist (des-Gly-NH2d(CH2)5 [Tyr(Me)2,Thr4] OVT; 0.75 microg/5 microl) or of synthetic oxytocin (0.1 microg and 1 microg/5 microl), infused into the lateral ventricle (i.c.v.), on the sleep pattern in male Wistar rats (n=7). Compared to vehicle, the oxytocin antagonist slightly but persistently increased wakefulness at the expense of all sleep states. This finding indicates that endogenous brain oxytocin promotes sleep. However, acute icv infusion of oxytocin delayed sleep onset latency, which resulted in a transient reduction of non-REMS and REMS, and augmented high-frequency activity in the electroencephalogram (EEG) within non-REMS. These observations agree with previous reports that icv oxytocin induces a state of arousal. Based on these findings, we postulate that oxytocin has a dual mechanism of action in dependence of the physiological state. Under basal, stress-free conditions, endogenous oxytocin may promote sleep. Conversely, the high brain levels of oxytocin after central oxytocin infusion may reflect a condition of stress accompanied by behavioural arousal and, possibly via an excitatory action on the CRH system, increase vigilance.
Intracerebroventricular administration of GABA-A and GABA-B receptor antagonists attenuate feeding and sleeping-like behavior induced by L-pipecolic acid in neonatal chicks.	It has been demonstrated that L-pipecolic acid (L-PA), a major metabolic intermediate of L-lysine (L-Lys) in the mammalian and chicken brain, is involved in the functioning of the GABAergic system. A previous study has shown that intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of L-PA suppressed feeding and induced sleep-like behavior in neonatal chicks; however, the precise relationship between the GABAergic system and L-PA has not been clarified. In the present study, the role of the GABA-A or GABA-B receptors in the suppression of food intake and induction of sleeping-like behavior by L-PA was investigated. Chicks were injected i.c.v. with the GABA-A antagonist picrotoxin or GABA-B antagonist CGP54626 along with L-PA. Although suppression of food intake by L-PA was restored partially by co-injection with CGP54626, but not picrotoxin, sleep-like behavior induced by L-PA was suppressed significantly by both antagonists. These results suggested that L-PA activated both GABA-A and GABA-B receptors, and GABA-B receptors alone contributed to food intake whereas both receptors contributed to sleep-like behavior.
Inhibitory effects of the fragrance inhalation of essential oil from Acorus gramineus on central nervous system.	The present study was designed to evaluate central inhibitory effects of the essential oil from Acori graminei Rhizoma (AGR), the dry rhizomes of Acorus gramineus SOLANDER (Araceae) upon fragrance inhalation (aroma therapy). Preinhalation of the oil markedly delayed the appearance of pentylenetetrazole-induced convulsion. Furthermore, inhalation impressively inhibited the activity of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) transaminase, a degrading enzyme for GABA as the inhalation period was lengthened. The GABA level was significantly increased and glutamate content was significantly decreased in mouse brain by preinhalation of the essential oil. The above results suggest that the anticonvulsive effect of this AGR oil is originated by the enhancement of GABA level in the mouse brain, because convulsion depends partially on GABA concentration which can be properly preserved by inhibiting GABA transaminase. Moreover, fragrance inhalation progressively prolonged the pentobarbital-induced sleeping time as inhalation time was lengthened. Ten hour inhalation corresponded almost to the effect (145% increase) of oral administration (60 mg/kg). This sedative effect after inhalation or oral administration of AGR essential oil suggests that this oil may act on the CNS via the GABAergic system. The inhibitory activity of preinhalation of the essential oil on lipid peroxidation, to which the anticonvulsive action is attributed, also supported the above results, confirming and amplifying our previous reports on the CNS inhibitory effects of AGR.
Breathing during sleep in menopause: a randomized, controlled, crossover trial with estrogen therapy.	To evaluate the prevalence of different types of nocturnal breathing abnormalities in postmenopausal women and the effect of estrogen replacement therapy (ERT) on nocturnal breathing.
Preference of insomniac patients between a single dose of zolpidem 10 mg versus zaleplon 10 mg.	We assessed the preference of insomniac patients between a single dose of 10 mg zolpidem or zaleplon, respectively, administered in random order on two consecutive nights. Fifty-three patients (mean age 52.2 years, 51% females) with a history of recurrent episodes of insomnia and currently complaining of difficulties in falling asleep were included into a randomized, double-blind, cross-over study by 12 general practitioners. After each night, the patients were asked to fill in a sleep questionnaire and visual analogue scales (VAS) to subjectively assess both the quality of sleep (in the morning) and the quality of the day (in the evening). After the second study night, patients' self-assessed preference was established through a drug preference questionnaire. 62% of patients preferred zolpidem, while 38% preferred zaleplon (p = 0.08). The quality of sleep items getting to sleep and quality of sleep were significantly more improved after zolpidem (p = 0.03 and p < 0.0001, respectively). On the VAS, subjective sleep quality was significantly better after zolpidem (p < 0.0001). Diurnal awakeness and quality of day life were satisfying in both groups, without significant difference. The subjective total duration of sleep was 8.0 h for zolpidem and 8.1 h for zaleplon (n.s.). Safety was good and similar between the two drugs. Insomniac patients tended to prefer zolpidem to zaleplon on both nocturnal and diurnal assessments. These results provide additional information for the physician's choice, based on the patient's preference for a given drug.
Effect of estradiol implant on noradrenergic function and mood in menopausal subjects.	The effect of the alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist, clonidine, on plasma growth hormone (GH), plasma 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylethylenegylcol (MHPG), blood pressure and sedation were studied in 16 menopausal subjects before and 6 wk after a 100-mg implant of estradiol. The specific binding of tritiated yohimbine to intact platelets also was studied. Estradiol implants increased basal GH output and reduced baseline MHPG and sedation scores. However, none of the subsequent responses to clonidine were altered. Platelet yohimbine binding also was unchanged following the implant. Both observer- and self-rating scales showed a marked reduction in anxiety and depression scores. The results suggest that estradiol may alter some indices of noradrenergic function, but that the mechanism does not involve alterations in alpha 2-adrenoceptor sensitivity.
On the issue of drug washout prior to polysomnographic studies in depressed patients.	In psychoneurobiological studies it is a point of controversy how long psychoactive medication has to be withdrawn to exclude drug effects on the variables to be investigated. In order to answer the question of whether the generally assumed two-week washout of psychoactive medication is sufficient for polysomnographic studies, we computed a post hoc analysis of EEG sleep recordings in 61 newly admitted depressed patients. The results indicate that after a 2-week withdrawal of tricyclic antidepressants and/or benzodiazepines there are no major drug effects on visually scored polysomnograms. In addition, the observations raise the question of whether even a 1-week drug washout may be sufficient to exclude confounding effects of prior psychoactive medication on EEG sleep.
Anesthetic properties of riluzole (54274 RP), a new inhibitor of glutamate neurotransmission.	It has been suggested that some anesthetic agents could exert their hypnotic/anesthetic effects by selectively blocking receptors involved in the central excitatory neurotransmission mediated by glutamate. In the present study, we analyzed whether riluzole (54274 RP), a novel compound that inhibits both the release and some postsynaptic effects of glutamate in some brain structures, has anesthetic properties in rats. For this purpose, we investigated whether 1) riluzole administered intraperitoneally (ip) at doses ranging from 2.5 to 45 mg/kg induces loss of righting reflex (LRR); 2) riluzole (2.5 and 5 mg/kg) prolongs sleep-times induced by either ketamine (30 or 80 mg/kg ip) or thiopental (25 or 35 mg/kg ip); 3) a 5-mg/kg subanesthetic riluzole dose affects the minimum alveolar concentration of halothane (MACh). Onset of drug action was defined as the period of time from the ip injection to LRR. Sleep-time was considered the period of time from LRR to restoration of righting reflex. Riluzole at doses greater than 15 mg/kg was able to induce LRR (riluzole dose for which LRR was achieved in 50% of the rats [ED50 = 25.6 mg/kg]). A positive correlation was found between the dose of riluzole and sleep-time (r = 0.92, P less than 0.001). A 5-mg/kg (but not 2.5-mg/kg) riluzole dose significantly prolonged sleep-times induced by both ketamine (30 and 80 mg/kg) and thiopental (25 but not 35 mg/kg).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Quality of life in treatment of hypertension. A metaanalysis of clinical trials.	A metaanalysis was performed to determine the effects on quality of life (QL) in hypertension as reported in published clinical trials of antihypertensive drug therapy. All studies included compared active treatment to baseline (placebo or no treatment) with the patients as their own control and used blinded, randomized trials. Change was measured by self and/or interviewer-assisted evaluation, standardized psychomotor/cognitive tests, or sleep laboratory observations. After an exhaustive literature search (1970 to 1990), nine published trials of 27 population groups (n = 1620) using 14 drugs from six pharmacological groups met selection criteria and were analyzed for five QL constructs: sexual function, sleep, psychomotor, general well-being, and mood. Small positive effect size (d) improvement with treatment was seen for sleep (d = 0.106), psychomotor (d = 0.283), general well-being (d = 0.139), and mood (d = 0.167) while no effect could be determined for sexual function (d = -0.030) based on 95% confidence intervals. Either a comparably small improvement with treatment or no effect was seen among various pharmacological drug groups; no negative effect with treatment was identified. A larger positive effect could be postulated if the drug choice was individualized to the patient rather than randomized as in clinical trial methodology. Although none of the drug groups had a clearly superior effect, a more frequent positive effect with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and beta-blockers was seen for all constructs. Narrower demographics and smaller sample sizes may have biased similar positive effects in calcium-channel blockers and diuretics.
Relative efficacy and safety of loratadine, hydroxyzine, and placebo in chronic idiopathic urticaria and atopic dermatitis.	The subjects of this double-blind study were 59 patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria or atopic dermatitis randomly assigned to receive 10 mg of loratadine once daily and placebo twice daily (n = 20), 25 mg of hydroxyzine thrice daily (n = 20), or placebo thrice daily (n = 19). The patients (15 men, 44 women) were aged 18 to 65 years. Among the 18 patients with urticaria and 41 with atopic dermatitis, daily symptom scores decreased 43% and 57% in those receiving loratadine, 47% and 38% in those receiving hydroxyzine, and 0% and 33% in the placebo patients. The difference between the treated and placebo patients was significant among the urticaria patients. According to a global evaluation of treatment effects, more treated than placebo patients reported marked or complete symptom relief; among the patients with atopic dermatitis, the difference was significant between the loratadine and placebo patients. Somnolence or sedation during treatment was reported by one of the patients receiving loratadine, by eight of the hydroxyzine patients, and by two of the placebo patients; the difference between the loratadine and hydroxyzine patients was significant. It was concluded that loratadine is as effective as hydroxyzine in the treatment of urticaria and demonstrates a significant antipruritic effect in atopic dermatitis, but does not have the central nervous system effects of hydroxyzine.
The effect of SRIF on the EEG sleep of normal men.	The aim of this investigation was to evaluate EEG sleep, especially measures of delta-wave sleep, during and after the administration of somatostatin (SRIF). Eleven normal men, ages 22-37 yr, were administered saline or SRIF (0.1 microgram/kg/min IV) over 160 min at bedtime. SRIF delayed sleep-related growth hormone (GH) secretion without altering the amount of GH available during the entire night of sleep. No changes in delta-wave sleep occurred during either the first 100 min of sleep or the remainder of the night. Furthermore, all major EEG sleep variables were not significantly different between the saline and SRIF infusion night. It would not appear that the peripheral administration of this dose of SRIF or the subsequent delay of GH release has quantitative effects on EEG measures of all-night sleep.
Sleep-promoting properties of quetiapine in healthy subjects.	The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of quetiapine, an atypical antipsychotic, on polysomnographic sleep structure and subjective sleep quality. This double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized cross-over study investigated the polysomnographic sleep structure and subjective sleep quality of 14 healthy male subjects given placebo, quetiapine 25 mg or quetiapine 100 mg. Volunteers were studied 3 times for 3 consecutive nights (N0, adaptation; N1, standard sleep conditions; N2, acoustic stress) 4 days apart. Treatment was administered orally 1 h before bedtime on nights 1 and 2. Quetiapine 25 mg and 100 mg significantly improved sleep induction and continuity under standard and acoustic stress conditions. Increases in total sleep time, sleep efficiency, percentage sleep stage 2 and subjective sleep quality were seen. A significant increase in periodic leg movements during sleep was observed with quetiapine 100 mg. The sleep-improving properties of quetiapine may be important in counteracting different aspects of psychopathology in schizophrenia and other disorders. These sleep-inducing and sleep-modifying properties are probably related to quetiapine's receptor-binding profile, including its antihistaminergic, antidopaminergic and antiadrenergic properties. Other mechanisms might be relevant as well and further investigation is required.
Blood pressure response to melatonin in type 1 diabetes.	Diminished decline of blood pressure at night has been associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease. Exogenous melatonin given to healthy normotensive adults reduces blood pressure. We hypothesized that melatonin increases the decline of blood pressure during sleep in normotensive adolescents with type 1 diabetes.
Inhibitory effects of the essential oil from SuHeXiang Wan on the central nervous system after inhalation.	The present study was performed to evaluate the central nervous system inhibitory effects of the essential oil from SuHeXiang Wan (Storax pill), a prescription usually used for treating epilepsy in traditional Chinese medicine, on fragrance inhalation (aroma therapy). Preinhalation of the fragrance oil markedly delayed the appearance of pentylenetetrazole-induced convulsion, but showed weak activities on picrotoxin- and strychnine-induced convulsions, which implies this drug may inhibit the convulsion by GABAergic neuromodulation. This essential oil inhibited the binding of [(3)H]Ro15-1788, a selective antagonist for the benzodiazepine receptor and also the binding of [(3)H]flunitrazepam, a selective agonist for the receptor, in the presence of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and NaCl, showing a positive GABA shift, which suggested the strong possibility of the agonistic activity of the essential oil to the GABA/benzodiazepine receptor complex in rat cerebral cortices. Furthermore, inhalation inhibited the activity of GABA transaminase as the inhalation period was lengthened. The GABA level was significantly increased and glutamate content was significantly decreased in mouse brain by preinhalation of the essential oil. The above results suggest that the anticonvulsive effect of this essential oil can also originate from the enhancement of GABA level in the mouse brain, because convulsion depends partially on GABA concentration which can be properly preserved by inhibiting GABA transaminase. Fragrance inhalation progressively prolonged the pentobarbital-induced sleeping time as inhalation time was lengthened and inhibited brain lipid peroxidation, to which the anticonvulsive action is attributed; this also supported the above results, confirming the inhibitory effects of the essential oil of SuHeXiang Wan on the CNS via the GABAergic system.
Completion by the 10th generation of the bidirectional selective breeding of GHB-sensitive and GHB-resistant rats.	The present paper describes the completion of the bidirectional selective breeding of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB)-sensitive (GHB-S) and GHB-resistant (GHB-R) rats, which display opposite sensitivity to the sedative/hypnotic effect of 1 g/kg GHB. Completion of the selective breeding process was achieved by the F10, when 100% of rats of each line fulfilled the selection criterion. GHB-S and GHB-R rats may constitute a valuable tool for investigations on GHB physiology and pharmacology.
Blood pressure-lowering effect of melatonin in type 1 diabetes.	Our long-term goal is to determine the utility of melatonin in prevention of hypertension in type 1 diabetes. We recently reported that 5 mg melatonin taken at bedtime increases the nocturnal drop of diastolic blood pressure (BP) in adolescents with type 1 diabetes. The present study tested the hypothesis that a higher dose of melatonin, 10 mg, lowers both systolic and diastolic BP in these patients. The design was an open-label trial of 10 mg melatonin taken at bedtime daily for 7 days. Nine normotensive adolescents with type 1 diabetes, 16.2 +/- 0.3 yr old, and eight healthy controls, 16.6 +/- 0.6 yr old participated. BP was measured every 20 min by ambulatory monitoring device for 24 hr before treatment onset and on the last treatment day; sleep was monitored by diary and wrist actigraphy. Outcome measures were BP during wake, sleep and over a 24-hr period. Sleep duration and number of awakenings were used as covariates. Significance for this pilot study was set at P < 0.10. In patients with diabetes the mean BP during sleep was lower on melatonin than before treatment: systolic 104.0 +/- 2.4 and 108.4 +/- 2.4 mmHg (P = 0.085) and diastolic, 57.1 +/- 1.9 and 59.3 +/- 1.9 mmHg (P = 0.079), respectively. In controls there was no significant effect of melatonin on BP. There was no significant effect of sleep duration or number of awakenings on the BP responses. We conclude that the present results justify phase III therapeutic trials to determine the utility of melatonin in prevention of hypertension and cardiovascular complications in type 1 diabetes.
The role of diurnal periodicity in effects of psychomotor stimulating agents]	The review summarizes data on the nature of chronotropic properties of psychostimulants. Mechanisms underlying the ability of these drugs to shift the normal ratio in the rest--activity cycle toward wakeful phase and factors determining the dependence of the drug effect on the circadian variations of pharmacokinetics are considered.
Intravenous administration of the neuropeptide galanin has fast antidepressant efficacy and affects the sleep EEG.	Recently, we demonstrated that the intravenous administration of the neuropeptide galanin acts on the sleep EEG of healthy young subjects similar to sleep deprivation. As this effect could imply an antidepressive potency we studied the effect of intravenous galanin administration on psychopathology and sleep EEG in patients with depression.
Valerian use for sleep disturbances related to rheumatoid arthritis.	Complementary therapies are becoming increasingly popular, particularly for symptoms such as sleep disturbance. The herb valerian may be useful as a mild sleep aid in clinical populations, such as persons with rheumatoid arthritis. This article reviews valerian to inform healthcare providers of potential uses and safety considerations.
Psychoactive medications and actigraphically scored sleep quality in frail nursing home patients.	The objective of this study was to examine the association between psychoactive medications and sleep quality in a sample of nursing home patients.
On the sleep promoting effects of BR-16A: interaction with GABAergic modulators.	Pentobarbitone-induced hypnosis test was used as an animal model to explore the role of BR-16A, a polyherbal formulation in sleep. Pentobarbitone produces quick sleep latency (onset) and prolongation of total sleep time (duration). Sleep latency and total sleep time were used as a parameters for the evaluation. BR-16A potentiated the effect of triazolam (0.1 mg/kg, ip) and alprazolam (0.25 mg/kg, ip). Melatonin (5.0 mg/kg, ip) and zolpidem (0.5 mg/kg, ip) did not produce any significant effect on sleep parameters. However, alprazolam (0.25mg/kg, ip) potentiated the effect of BR-16A (100 mg/ kg, po) in higher dose only. Sleep promoting effect of BR-16A in combination with GABAergic drugs (triazolam and alprazolam,) suggested that these drugs have common mechanism in sleep promoting effect of pentobarbitone and could be used along with other GABAergic hypnotics for the treatment of insomnia. This may reduce the dose of the latter drug(s). BR-16A can be used for the treatment of sleep and sleep-related disorders.
Pharmacological studies on the venomous spotted butterfish (Scatophagus argus Linn) sting extract on experimental animals.	A sting of the fish S. argus, a venomous edible spotted butterfish, produces tremendous local pain, severe swelling, rise of body temperature, throbbing sensation etc. To establish the pharmacological activities of S. argus sting extract, the present investigation, was carried out on experimental animals. The LD50 of extract was found to be 9.3 mg/kg (iv) in male albino mice. The extract showed loss of sensation, urination and salivation in mice. It potentiated pentobarbitone induced sleeping time in male albino mice and produced hypothermia. Extract produced a fall of cat and guinea pig blood pressure, which was completely abolished by mepyramine. It produced a transient reduction of respiratory rate in rat, but decreased respiratory amplitude in cat, which was abolished after vagotomy. On isolated toad heart, the extract increased both the amplitude and rate of contraction. On isolated guinea pig heart, the sting extract decreased both the rate and amplitude of contraction leading to cardiac arrest, but it had no effect on isolated guinea pig auricle. The extract produced a reversible blockade of electrically induced twitch response of isolated chick biventer cervices preparation, but it had no effect on the isolated rat phrenic nerve diaphragm preparation. It produced a slow contractile response on isolated guinea pig ileum, rat uterus and rat fundal strip preparations but produced slow relaxation on isolated rat duodenum preparation. The contractile response on isolated guinea pig ileum and rat fundal strip was antagonised by SC19220. It did not produce any significant cutaneous haemorrhage in mice and did not produce any haemolysis on saline washed erythrocytes. The sting extract significantly increased capillary permeability of guinea pig dorsal flank and produced oedema in mice hind paw.
Neuropharmacological actions of panchagavya formulation containing Emblica officinalis Gaerth and Glycyrrhiza glabra Linn in mice.	A panchagavya Ayurvedic formulation containing E. officinalis, G. glabra, and cow's ghee was evaluated for its effect on pentobarbital-induced sleeping time, pentylenetetrazol-induced seizures, maximal electroshock-induced seizures, spontaneous motor activity, rota-rod performance (motor coordination) and antagonism to amphetamine in mice. The formulation (300, 500 mg/kg, po) produced a significant prolongation of pentobarbital-induced sleeping time and reduced spontaneous locomotor activity. The formulation also significantly antagonised the amphetamine induced hyper-locomotor activity (500, 750 mg/kg, po) and protected mice against tonic convulsions induced by maximal electroshock (500, 750 mg/kg, po). The formulation slightly prolonged the phases of seizure activity but did not protect mice against lethality induced by pentylenetetrazole. The formulation did not show neurotoxicity. The results suggest that the panchagavya formulation is sedative in nature.
Glutamatergic-receptors blockade does not regularize the slow wave sleep bursty pattern of subthalamic neurons.	The subthalamic nucleus (STN) has been implicated in movement disorders observed in Parkinson's disease because of its pathological mixed burst firing mode and hyperactivity. In physiological conditions, STN bursty pattern has been shown to be dependent on slow wave cortical activity. Indeed, cortical ablation abolished STN bursting activity in urethane-anaesthetized intact or dopamine depleted rats. Thus, glutamate afferents might be involved in STN bursting activity during slow wave sleep (SWS) when thalamic and cortical cells oscillate in a low-frequency range. The present work was aimed to test, on non-anaesthetized rats, if it was possible to regularize the SWS STN bursty pattern by microiontophoresis of kynurenate, a broad-spectrum glutamate ionotropic receptors antagonist. As glutamatergic effects might be masked by GABAergic inputs arriving tonically and during the entire sleep-wake cycle on STN neurons, kynurenate was also co-iontophoresed with bicuculline, a GABA(A) receptors antagonist. Kynurenate iontophoretic applications had a weak inhibitory effect on the discharge rate of STN neurons whatever the vigilance state, and did not regularize the SWS STN bursty pattern. But, the robust bursty bicuculline-induced pattern was impaired by kynurenate, which elicited the emergence of single spikes between remaining bursts. These data indicate that the bursty pattern exhibited by STN neurons specifically in SWS, does not seem to exclusively depend on glutamatergic inputs to STN cells. Furthermore, GABA(A) receptors may play a critical role in regulating the influence of excitatory inputs on STN cells.
Synergistic effect of methanol extract of Abies webbiana leaves on sleeping time induced by standard sedatives in mice and anti-inflammatory activity of extracts in rats.	During the determination of LD50 values of extracts of Abies webbiana, it was observed that the methanol extract (MEAW) produces sedation of animals. This led to investigation of the effect of MEAW on sleeping time in mice. When various doses of the methanol extract (100, 150, and 200 mg/kg body weight) were administered alone, no hypnotic activity was observed. However, these exhibited significant synergistic effects (P < 0.001) at those dose levels in mice when administered prior to the administration of standard sedatives (pentobarbitone sodium: 50 mg/kg and diazepam: 6 mg/kg, respectively). In addition anti-inflammatory effects of methanol, chloroform, and petroleum ether extracts of Abies webbiana leaves in rats were performed to assess scientific validity of the medicinal claim of Indian folk medicine. The effects of leaf extracts (methanol, chloroform, and petroleum ether) against inflammation were studied by carrageenan-induced paw edema model in rats. The methanol extract (400 mg/kg p.o.) of leaves of Abies webbiana showed the best significant anti-inflammatory activity as compared to that of diclofenac sodium (150 mg/kg p.o.). The LD50 values of methanol, chloroform, and petroleum ether extracts were found to be 986, 1387, and > 3200 mg/kg, respectively. Thus, the therapeutic index of methanol extract may be favorable to open a new vista on combination therapy of hypnotics and may also against inflammation.
Interleukin-1beta modulates state-dependent discharge activity of preoptic area and basal forebrain neurons: role in sleep regulation.	Interleukin-1beta (IL-1) is a pro-inflammatory cytokine that has been implicated in the regulation of nonrapid eye movement (nonREM) sleep. IL-1, IL-1 receptors and the IL-1 receptor antagonist (ra) are present normally in discrete brain regions, including the preoptic area (POA) of the hypothalamus and the adjoining magnocellular basal forebrain (BF). The POA/BF have been implicated in the regulation of sleep-wakefulness. We hypothesized that IL-1 promotes nonREM sleep, in part by altering the state-dependent discharge activity of POA/BF neurons. We recorded the sleep-wake discharge profiles of 83 neurons in the lateral POA/BF and assessed the effects of IL-1, IL-1ra, and IL-ra + IL-1 delivered through a microdialysis probe on state-dependent neuronal discharge activity. IL-1 decreased the discharge rate of POA/BF neurons as a group (n = 55) but wake-related and sleep-related neurons responded differently. IL-1 significantly decreased the discharge rate of wake-related neurons. Of 24 wake-related neurons studied, 19 (79%) neurons exhibited a greater than 20% change in their discharge in the presence of IL-1 during waking. IL-1 suppressed the discharge activity of 18 of 19 responsive neurons. Of 13 sleep-related neurons studied, IL-1 increased the discharge activity of five and suppressed the discharge activity of four neurons. IL-1ra increased the discharge activity of four of nine neurons and significantly attenuated IL-1-induced effects on neuronal activity of POA/BF neurons (n = 19). These results suggest that the sleep-promoting effects of IL-1 may be mediated, in part, via the suppression of wake-related neurons and the activation of a subpopulation of sleep-related neurons in the POA/BF.
Treatment with immunosuppressive and anti-inflammatory agents delays onset of canine genetic narcolepsy and reduces symptom severity.	All Doberman pinschers and Labrador retrievers homozygous for a mutation of the hypocretin (orexin) receptor-2 (hcrtr2) gene develop narcolepsy under normal conditions. Degenerative changes and increased display of major histocompatibility complex class II antigens have been linked to symptom onset in genetically narcoleptic Doberman pinschers. This suggests that the immune system may contribute to neurodegenerative changes and narcoleptic symptomatology in these dogs. We therefore attempted to alter the course of canine genetic narcolepsy, as an initial test of principle, by administering a combination of three immunosuppressive and anti-inflammatory drugs chosen to suppress the immune response globally. Experimental dogs were treated with a combination of methylprednisolone, methotrexate and azathioprine orally starting within 3 weeks after birth, and raised in an environment that minimized pathogen exposure. Symptoms in treated and untreated animals were quantified using the food elicited cataplexy test (FECT), modified FECT and actigraphy. With drug treatment, time to cataplexy onset more than doubled, time spent in cataplexy during tests was reduced by more than 90% and nighttime sleep periods were consolidated. Short-term drug administration to control dogs did not reduce cataplexy symptoms, demonstrating that the drug regimen did not directly affect symptoms. Treatment was stopped at 6 months, after which experimental animals remained less symptomatic than controls until at least 2 years of age. This treatment is the first shown to affect symptom development in animal or human genetic narcolepsy. Our findings show that hcrtr2 mutation is not sufficient for the full symptomatic development of canine genetic narcolepsy and suggest that the immune system may play a role in the development of this disorder.
Effects of modafinil on wakefulness and executive function in patients with narcolepsy experiencing late-day sleepiness.	A modafinil daily dosing strategy promotes wakefulness in narcolepsy patients experiencing excessive daytime sleepiness; however, some patients may continue to experience late-day sleepiness. Excessive sleepiness in narcolepsy is associated with cognitive impairment. Modafinil has improved executive function in other models of excessive sleepiness. This study evaluated the effects of once-daily vs. split doses of modafinil on wakefulness and of combined doses on executive function in narcolepsy patients experiencing late-day sleepiness despite satisfactory modafinil treatment earlier in the day.
Characterization of acute functional tolerance to the hypnotic effects of ethanol in mice.	Acute functional tolerance (AFT) to ethanol-induced hypnosis is one of the main factors that affect the duration of ethanol-induced loss of righting reflex (LRR: "sleep time"). Investigators who use duration of LRR as a measure of ethanol-induced sedation should consider the potential magnitude and time course of this neuroadaptation when interpreting their results. However, AFT to the hypnotic effects of ethanol has not been well characterized. The present study explored this form of AFT using a novel method of monitoring LRR in mice.
Subjective and polysomnographic effects of milnacipran on sleep in depressed patients.	The effects of milnacipran (50 mg bid) on sleep patterns of eight depressed inpatients, treated for 4 weeks, were studied during the initial (days 1-3) and terminal (days 26-28) treatment periods and compared with those obtained from three sleep recordings performed just prior to the initiation of the treatment. The clinical evolution of patients was evaluated weekly using the MADRS depression scale and the Spiegel and Norris sleep scales. Clinical improvement, shown by a mean reduction of 58% in MADRS scale scores, was accompanied by an improvement of disturbed sleep parameters. From the beginning of treatment, there was an increase in the total duration of sleep and stage II sleep, a decrease in sleep latency and an increase in sleep efficiency. Total REM sleep was not modified although, since there was an increase in total sleep time, the percent REM sleep was significantly reduced. REM latency was increased early in the study, an effect classically associated with antidepressant treatment. This study suggests that milnacipran improves disturbed sleep parameters in depressed patients without any additional disturbance at the onset of treatment.
The importance of sleep for healthy alcohol consumers and alcohol dependent patients]	This article deals with the effects of alcohol on sleep and sleep EEG of healthy individuals and alcohol-dependent patients during different phases of alcohol dependency. Healthy individuals initially experience an improvement in sleep, although a greater quantity of alcohol can lead to problems of sleep maintenance during the second half of the night. Pre-existing sleep deprivation or sleep restriction potentiates the effects of alcohol. Alcohol-dependent patients are found to be more prone to sleep problems than healthy individuals, which can facilitate the development of alcoholism. These patients experience difficulty falling asleep and suffer from a reduced total sleep time during all phases of the disorder, often accompanied by other sleep disorders such as sleep apnea syndrome or periodic leg movements during sleep. Certain predictors for the risk of relapse in abstinent alcoholics have been identified. Neurobiological findings in sleep and alcohol dependency are discussed. The cholinergic-aminergic reciprocal interaction model of REM and non-REM sleep regulation is significant in this context. Therapeutic implications are discussed.
Comparative effects of duloxetine and desipramine on sleep EEG in healthy subjects.	Antidepressants are known to modify human sleep patterns.
Comparison of diazepam with progestin for effectiveness in suppression of urine spraying behavior in cats.	The most common treatment for urine spraying and marking in cats has been administration of long-acting progestins. Treatment with diazepam has recently been gaining favor, particularly because of reported adverse effects of progestins. Results of a clinical trial involving 20 cats indicated that diazepam was effective in eliminating or markedly reducing spraying in 11 (55%) of them. However, most cats required continuous treatment, or at least intermittent treatment, when spraying recurred. The physiologic and behavioral dependency of cats on diazepam, which presumably develops over the course of administration, may contribute to the tendency for spraying to recur once diazepam treatment is discontinued. Using data from previously published findings on progestin administration, plus additional cases, it was documented that a significantly (P less than 0.05) higher percentage of males than females responded favorably. Although the number of cases was not sufficient for a statistical comparison of diazepam vs progestin treatment with regard to male vs female, possible gender difference in the effectiveness of diazepam was not indicated.
Interleukin 1 receptor antagonist blocks somnogenic and pyrogenic responses to an interleukin 1 fragment.	Previously it was shown that human interleukin 1 (huIL-1) and a huIL-1 fragment, huIL-1 beta 208-240, are somnogenic and pyrogenic in rabbits. However, the amino acid sequences for IL-1 are species-specific and it was unknown whether rabbit (rb) IL-1 beta 208-240 and rat (rt) IL-1 beta 208-240 were active in their respective species. Furthermore, it was unknown whether these fragments elicited their effects via the IL-1 receptors. Two doses of rbIL-1 beta 208-240 (6.0 and 12.0 nmol) were intracerebroventricularly administered to rabbits. The 6.0-nmol dose had little effect, whereas the 12.0-nmol dose greatly increased non-rapid-eye-movement sleep across a 6-hr recording period and induced a febrile response. Rats injected intracerebroventricularly with rtIL-1 beta 208-240 at dark onset responded to three doses of the peptide (1.2, 2.4, and 4.8 nmol). The 1.2-nmol dose did not greatly affect sleep but did induce a moderate febrile response. The 2.4- and 4.8-nmol doses increased non-rapid-eye-movement sleep across the 12-hr recording period. Maximal brain temperature elevations relative to controls after the 2.4- and 4.8-nmol doses of the peptide were 0.9 +/- 0.2 degrees C and 0.7 +/- 0.2 degrees C, respectively. These responses in both rabbits and rats were completely blocked or significantly attenuated when the animals were pretreated with an IL-1 receptor antagonist. These results suggest that the biological activities of IL-1 beta 208-240 are mediated via the IL-1 beta receptors.
Dopamine D1 (SCH 23390) and D2 (haloperidol) antagonists in drug-naive monkeys.	The ability of dopamine D1 antagonists to produce acute extrapyramidal syndromes (EPS) in nonhuman primates is unclear. Some studies in monkeys show that D1 antagonists produce acute dystonia, whereas other studies do not report these effects. The central issues that have yielded conflicting results revolve around prior treatment status (neuroleptic-naive versus neuroleptic sensitized) and route of administration (oral versus parenteral). In this study, separate groups of neuroleptic drug-naive cebus monkeys were tested once weekly with intramuscularly administered SCH 23390, a D1 antagonist, or haloperidol, a D2 antagonist, across a dose range of 0.01-0.25 mg/kg, and a saline control. Both active drugs, but not saline, produced clinically identical syndromes of acute dystonia and bradykinesia, though haloperidol induced higher symptom scores over a longer duration. Sedation and locomotor activity were unchanged by SCH 23390, but decreased with haloperidol. Factors regarding acute EPS liability in nonhuman primate models and clinical implications in man are discussed.
Treatment with leuprolide acetate decreases the threshold of the ventilatory response to carbon dioxide in healthy males.	This investigation was designed to determine if suppression of testosterone alters the ventilatory response to carbon dioxide in the presence of high and low levels of oxygen. Eleven healthy male subjects completed a series of rebreathing trials during wakefulness, before and after treatment with a long-acting gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist. Five subjects also completed studies during non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep. During wakefulness, subjects initially hyperventilated to reduce the partial pressure of carbon dioxide (P(ET,CO2)) below 25 Torr. Subjects then rebreathed from a bag containing a normocapnic (42 Torr), low (50 Torr) or high oxygen (140 Torr) gas mixture. During each trial P(ET,CO2) increased while oxygen was maintained at a constant level. The threshold of the ventilatory response to carbon dioxide was considered to be the point at which minute ventilation began to rise in a linear fashion as P(ET,CO2) increased. The slope of the ventilatory response above the threshold was used as a measure of sensitivity to carbon dioxide. During NREM sleep, hypocapnia was induced via nasal mechanical ventilation. Several trials were completed until the cessation of mechanical ventilation resulted in a central apnoea which demarcated the threshold of the ventilatory response to carbon dioxide. In response to treatment with leuprolide acetate, the threshold measured in wakefulness decreased during carbon dioxide rebreathing in the presence of low (41.05 +/- 0.77 versus 39.40 +/- 0.83 Torr; P = 0.01) and high (46.32 +/- 0.56 versus 44.78 +/- 0.83 Torr; P = 0.01) oxygen levels. An increase in sensitivity (4.82 +/- 0.61 versus 7.17 +/- 1.20 l min(-1) Torr(-1); P = 0.02) was also observed during rebreathing in the presence of high but not low oxygen levels. The increase in sensitivity was accompanied by an increase in carbon dioxide production. The findings observed during NREM sleep were similar to those observed during wakefulness, since the P(ET,CO2) that demarcated the threshold was decreased after leuprolide treatment (42.1 +/- 0.6 versus 39.6 +/- 0.6 Torr; P = 0.002). Additionally, the decrease in P(ET,CO2) required to induce an apnoea was greater after treatment with leuprolide (2.56 +/- 0.25 versus 4.06 +/- 0.29 Torr; P = 0.004). We conclude that suppression of testosterone decreases the threshold of the ventilatory response to carbon dioxide during both wakefulness and sleep.
The metabotropic glutamate (mGLU)2/3 receptor antagonist LY341495 [2S-2-amino-2-(1S,2S-2-carboxycyclopropyl-1-yl)-3-(xanth-9-yl)propanoic acid] stimulates waking and fast electroencephalogram power and blocks the effects of the mGLU2/3 receptor agonist ly379268 [(-)-2-oxa-4-aminobicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-4,6-dicarboxylate] in rats.	The highly selective metabotropic glutamate (mGlu)2/3 receptor agonist LY379268 [(-)-2-oxa-4-aminobicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-4,6-dicarboxylate] completely suppresses rapid eye movement (REM) sleep and strongly depresses theta (6-10 Hz) and high-frequency (10-60 Hz) power in the waking and nonrapid eye movement (NREM) EEG, effects consistent with depressed brain excitation (arousal). We hypothesized the selective mGlu2/3 receptor antagonist LY341495 [2S-2-amino-2-(1S,2S-2-carboxycyclopropyl-1-yl)-3-(xanth-9-yl)propanoic acid] given alone would 1) increase arousal, producing sleep-wake EEG effects opposite those of LY379268, and 2) block/reverse the effects of LY379268 when the drugs are coadministered. Rats with implanted electrodes were injected with 1, 5, or 10 mg/kg LY341495 at hour 5.5 of the dark period. In the coadministration study the rats received the same dose of LY341495 followed 30 min later by 1 mg/kg LY379268. LY341495 alone increased waking by reducing NREM and REM sleep. LY341495 also depressed low-frequency and stimulated high-frequency EEG power. It produced a sharp spike in theta power in waking but not NREM sleep, a striking state-dependent difference in pharmacological response. These changes indicate that blocking mGlu2/3 receptors increases brain arousal. Moreover, they show that mGlu2/3 receptors actively support arousal even in the absence of heightened glutamate excitation. The coadministration experiment demonstrates that LY341495 is selective in vivo since it dose-dependently attenuates or reverses the sleep-wake EEG effects of the highly selective mGlu2/3 receptor agonist LY379268. The capacity of mGlu2/3 receptor agonists and antagonists to alter the sleep wake balance suggests they could be developed to enhance sleep or sustain arousal. Their opposing actions on theta EEG could test the putative role of these oscillations in memory consolidation.
A double-blind, placebo-controlled investigation of the effects of two doses of a valerian preparation on the sleep, cognitive and psychomotor function of sleep-disturbed older adults.	One of the most popular herbal remedies for the alleviation of sleep problems is valerian. However, research into valerian is sparse, and studies differ greatly with respect to design, measures, and preparations used. This clinical study used standardized sleep EEG and psychometric tests to evaluate the clinical efficacy of a valerian preparation (Li 156). A placebo-controlled three way crossover clinical trial was completed using 16 (5 male and 11 female) sleep-disturbed participants (aged 50 to 64 years, mean age 55.9, SD 4.68). Participants slept overnight in a sleep laboratory, following a 21:00 hours dose of valerian 300 mg, valerian 600 mg, or placebo (double-blind). EEG sleep was recorded for each participant at 23:00 hours until 07:00 hours, when a psychometric evaluation was performed the morning after dose. Test periods were separated by six days washout period. Results showed no significant effect between valerian 300 mg, valerian 600 mg or placebo on any EEG parameter or psychometric measure. This suggests valerian at these doses is ineffective as an acute dose for sleep problems. However, valerian is widely used, and is traditionally sedative. Therefore, more research is required into therapeutic dose, types of valerian preparation, and the optimum period of use for therapeutic effect.
Efficacy of two cannabis based medicinal extracts for relief of central neuropathic pain from brachial plexus avulsion: results of a randomised controlled trial.	The objective was to investigate the effectiveness of cannabis-based medicines for treatment of chronic pain associated with brachial plexus root avulsion. This condition is an excellent human model of central neuropathic pain as it represents an unusually homogenous group in terms of anatomical location of injury, pain descriptions and patient demographics. Forty-eight patients with at least one avulsed root and baseline pain score of four or more on an 11-point ordinate scale participated in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, three period crossover study. All patients had intractable symptoms regardless of current analgesic therapy. Patients entered a baseline period of 2 weeks, followed by three, 2-week treatment periods during each of which they received one of three oromucosal spray preparations. These were placebo and two whole plant extracts of Cannabis sativa L.: GW-1000-02 (Sativex), containing Delta(9)tetrahydrocannabinol (THC):cannabidiol (CBD) in an approximate 1:1 ratio and GW-2000-02, containing primarily THC. The primary outcome measure was the mean pain severity score during the last 7 days of treatment. Secondary outcome measures included pain related quality of life assessments. The primary outcome measure failed to fall by the two points defined in our hypothesis. However, both this measure and measures of sleep showed statistically significant improvements. The study medications were generally well tolerated with the majority of adverse events, including intoxication type reactions, being mild to moderate in severity and resolving spontaneously. Studies of longer duration in neuropathic pain are required to confirm a clinically relevant, improvement in the treatment of this condition.
CNS activity of Alstonia macrophylla leaf extracts: an ethnomedicine of Onge of Bay Islands.	Methanol extract at 100-200 mg/kg p.o. and major nonpolar fraction B at 50 mg/kg of Alstonia macrophylla leaves caused a significant reduction in spontaneous activity, remarkable decrease in exploratory behavioural pattern, a reduction in muscle relaxant activity and also significantly potentiated phenobarbitone sodium-induced sleeping time. The phytochemical study of crude leaf extract revealed the presence of tannin, triterpenoid, flavonoid, sterol, alkaloid and reducing sugars. Further fractionation and purification of the n-butanol part of methanol extract yielded fraction A, fraction B and fraction C along with some minor fatty acids as the major compounds.
Characteristics and determinants of normal sleep.	Although sleep appears to simply be a body and mind at rest, it is actually a dynamic and complex physiologic state that is necessary for survival. Normal sleep is characterized by behavioral and physiologic changes as well as 2 distinct sleep states, rapid eye movement (REM) and non-REM (NREM). Throughout the course of a night, people cycle between NREM and REM sleep via an ultradian rhythm, with most of sleep spent in NREM. Determinants involved in the regulation of sleep are the homeostatic and circadian processes. Despite being highly regulated, sleep is fragile, and its stages and duration may be affected by multiple factors, such as age, drugs, temperature, and medical and psychiatric disease. Variations in nighttime sleep impact subsequent sleep periods as well as daytime function.
Daytime sleepiness and insomnia as correlates of depression.	Insomnia and daytime sleepiness are often associated with depression. The possible relationships between sleep difficulties and depression are numerous. Insomnia and other sleep disturbances can be precursors to the onset of major depressive disorder, so they may act as risk factors for or predictors of depression. The symptomatology of depression also prominently includes insomnia, and sleep disturbances may be residual symptoms after response to antidepressant treatment. Insomnia and the resultant daytime sleepiness may be short-term or long-term side effects of antidepressant treatment as well. Whether insomnia is a precursor, symptom, residual symptom, or side effect of depression or its treatment, clinicians must give serious attention to and attempt to resolve sleep disturbances because of the risk of depression onset, worsening of depressive symptoms, and relapse of depression after response to antidepressant treatment. Remission of depression cannot be fully achieved until the associated insomnia and daytime sleepiness are resolved. This article describes the relationships between insomnia and depression and discusses the effects of various antidepressants on sleep. Finally, several different treatment options, including antidepressant monotherapy and augmentation of antidepressants with other medications, are explored.
Pharmacologic management of insomnia.	Pharmacotherapy is indicated for many types of insomnia, most notably transient insomnia associated with stress, acute illness, or jet lag. Many patients with chronic insomnia, including primary insomnia and insomnia secondary to a variety of medical and psychiatric disorders, also benefit from pharmacotherapy. Relatively few individuals receive prescription medication to help them sleep, and the majority use medication for a few nights to several weeks, as opposed to continuous use for months or years. The hypnotics available on the U.S. market today are benzodiazepine receptor agonists (BZRAs). The BZRAs are efficacious in reducing sleep latency, increasing total sleep time, reducing awakenings, and improving sleep quality without the development of tolerance in studies as long as 6 months. Side effects of the BZRAs are infrequent, dose-related, and related to the sedative properties of the drug. Sedating antidepressants are also frequently prescribed to promote sleep despite inadequate data to support their efficacy for this indication and a greater potential for clinically troublesome side effects.
Levetiracetam for people with mental retardation and refractory epilepsy.	Levetiracetam (LEV) is a novel antiepileptic drug (AED) with efficacy against a wide range of seizures types. The aim of this observational study was to assess its effectiveness in patients with mental retardation and refractory epilepsy. Sixty-four patients were started on adjunctive LEV after a 3-month baseline. LEV was initially dosed at 250 mg daily and increased by 250 mg every 2 weeks thereafter according to clinical response. Caregivers rated the patient's sleep, appetite, alertness, and behavior as poor (1), reasonable (2), or good (3) at each clinic visit. Patients were reviewed until one of four endpoints was reached: seizure freedom for at least 6 months, > or = 50% reduction in seizure frequency (responder) over a 6-month period, <50% reduction in seizure frequency (marginal effect) over a 6-month period, or LEV withdrawal due to lack of efficacy, adverse effects, or both. Twenty-four (38%) patients became seizure-free, 10 of whom were controlled on LEV 250 mg twice daily. An additional 18 (28%) patients were classified as responders, and 8 (12%) reported only marginal benefit from adjunctive LEV. Fourteen (22%) patients discontinued LEV (6 worsening seizures, 1 lack of efficacy, 7 adverse effects). Caregivers rated combined sleep, appetite, alertness, and behavior scores as "improved" at the end of follow-up (P<0.001). LEV improved seizure control in the majority of patients with mental retardation and may also have enhanced their quality of life.
The sleep-promoting action of ramelteon (TAK-375) in freely moving cats.	Ramelteon (TAK-375) is an MT1/MT2 receptor agonist being studied for the treatment of insomnia and circadian rhythm sleep disorders. We compared the behavioral effects of ramelteon and exogenous melatonin in freely moving cats.
Tetrandrine, a bisbenzylisoquinoline alkaloid from Chinese herb Radix, augmented the hypnotic effect of pentobarbital through serotonergic system.	This is the first study of hypnotic activity of tetrandrine (a major component of Stephania tetrandrae) in mice by using synergism with pentobarbital as an index for the hypnotic effect. The results showed that tetrandrine potentiated pentobarbital (45 mg/kg, i.p.)-induced hypnosis significantly by reducing sleep latency and increasing sleeping time in a dose-dependent manner, and this effect was potentiated by 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP). In the subhypnotic dosage of pentobarbital (28 mg/kg, i.p.)-treated mice, tetrandrine (60 and 30 mg/kg, p.o.) significantly increased the rate of sleep onset and also showed synergic effect with 5-HTP. Pretreatment of p-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA, 300 mg/kg, s.c.), an inhibitor of tryptophan hydroxylase, significantly decreased pentobarbital-induced sleeping time and tetrandrine abolished this effect. From these results, it should be presumed that serotonergic system may be involved in the augmentative effect of tetrandrine on pentobarbital-induced sleep.
Predictors of high ethanol consumption in RIIbeta knock-out mice: assessment of anxiety and ethanol-induced sedation.	Genetic and pharmacological evidence suggests that the cyclic adenosine monophosphate-dependent protein kinase A pathway modulates neurobiological responses to ethanol. Mutant mice lacking the RIIbeta subunit of protein kinase A (RIIbeta(-/-)) are resistant to ethanol-induced sedation and drink significantly more ethanol than littermate wild-type mice (RIIbeta(+/+)). We determined whether high ethanol intake by the RIIbeta(-/-) mice on alternate genetic backgrounds is reliably predicted by high basal levels of anxiety or resistance to the sedative effects of ethanol.
Studies on the structure-activity relationship of allyl substituted oxopyrimidines searching for the novel antagonist or agonist of barbiturates to the sleep mechanism based on the uridine receptor theory--barbituric acid to uridine (part I)]	Thirty-six allyl substituted oxopyrimidine analogues such as barbituric acid (BA), barbiturates, uracil, thymine, and related derivatives including 13 new compounds were synthesized and their pharmacologic effects ([hypnotic activity, anticonvulsant activity against pentylentetrazol (PTZ)-induced seizures, and LD(50)]) and interactions with the barbiturates were evaluated in mice and rats. The results are briefly and parially summarized as follows. BA prolonged pentobarbital (PB)-induced sleep and had some central depressant effects. N,5,5-triallyl-BA exhibited some hypnotic and anticonvulsant activities, although the other 5,N-allyl-compounds did not show any activity except for allobarbital (AlloB). N-allyl-BA, 5-allyl-BA, N(1),N(3),5-triallyl-BA, N,5,5-triallyl-BA, and N(1),N(3),5,5-tetraallyl-BA also prolonged PB-induced sleep. Interestingly, N,5,5-triallyl-BA was the most potent in the interaction with AlloB, phenobarbital (PheB), amobarbital (AB), PB, and thiopental (TP) but not barbital (B). N(1),N(3),5,5-tetraallyl-BA prolonged AlloB-, PB-, and AB-induced sleep but not B-, PheB-, and TP-induced sleep. N(1),N(3),5-triallyl-B prolonged only PB- and TP-induced sleep. 5,5-diallyl-BA prolonged PheB- and TP-induced sleep. N,5-diallyl-BA prolonged only TP-induced sleep. In contrast, BA and N(1),N(3),5-triallyl-AB tended to antagonize AlloB, AB, and B. N(1),N(3),5,5-tetraallyl-BA also slightly antagonized B, PheB, and TP. 5,5-diallyl-BA antagonized only AB. The prolonging effects of BA, N,5,5-triallyl-BA, and N(1),N(3),5,5-tetraallyl-BA on PB-induced sleep were dose dependent. These results indicate that the position and number of allyl groups substituted on the structure of BA play an important role in their depressant activities. This review deals with the structure-activity relationship of allyl-substituted oxopyrimidines as part of our search for antagonists and agonists of barbiturates as well as their mechanisms of action.
Reduction of adrenergic neurotransmission with clonidine aggravates spike-wave seizures and alters activity in the cortex and the thalamus in WAG/Rij rats.	The alpha-2 adrenoreceptor agonist clonidine in low dose inhibits the release of noradrenaline and aggravates absence seizures. The present study examines properties of two types of spike-wave discharges (SWD) in a genetic model of absence epilepsy, the WAG/Rij rats. After reduction of noradrenergic neurotransmission with clonidine (0.00625 mg/kg, i.p.), the electrical activity was recorded in the neocortex, the ventroposteromedial nucleus (VPM) and the reticular thalamic nucleus (RTN). Clonidine temporally reduced percentage of wakefulness but did not affect sleep. Clonidine decreased the spectral power of sleep EEG (mostly in the delta band), this effect was found in the cortex and in the VPM. Clonidine increased the incidence of SWD type I (generalized); the spectral power of SWD I was lower in the frontal cortex (mostly in 1-9 and 30-100 Hz) and in the VPM (1-5 Hz), but higher in the RTN (9-14 Hz). Local occipital SWD (type II) had a tendency to be less numerous after clonidine, they had a lower power in the 5-9 Hz band in the occipital cortex, in the VPM and in the RTN. It can be concluded that strengthening of 9-14 Hz activity in the RTN may underlie clonidine-induced aggravation of SWD I.
Comparing effects of methylphenidate, sertraline and placebo on neuropsychiatric sequelae in patients with traumatic brain injury.	This study aimed to investigate the effects of methylphenidate and sertraline compared with placebo on various neuropsychiatric sequelae associated with traumatic brain injury (TBI).
Effects of exogenous melatonin on sleep: a meta-analysis.	Exogenous melatonin reportedly induces drowsiness and sleep, and may ameliorate sleep disturbances, including the nocturnal awakenings associated with old age. However, existing studies on the soporific efficacy of melatonin have been highly heterogeneous in regard to inclusion and exclusion criteria, measures to evaluate insomnia, doses of the medication, and routes of administration. We reviewed and analyzed (by meta-analysis) available information on effects of exogenous melatonin on sleep. A MEDLINE search (1980 to December 2003) provided English-language articles, supplemented by personal files maintained by the authors. The analysis used information derived from 17 different studies (involving 284 subjects) that satisfied inclusion criteria. Sleep onset latency, total sleep duration, and sleep efficiency were selected as the outcome measures. The study effect size was taken to be the difference between the response on placebo and the mean response on melatonin for each outcome measured. Melatonin treatment significantly reduced sleep onset latency by 4.0 min (95% CI 2.5, 5.4); increased sleep efficiency by 2.2% (95% CI 0.2, 4.2), and increased total sleep duration by 12.8 min (95% CI 2.9, 22.8). Since 15 of the 17 studies enrolled healthy subjects or people with no relevant medical condition other than insomnia, the analysis was also done including only these 15 studies. The sleep onset results were changed to 3.9 min (95% CI (2.5, 5.4)); sleep efficiency increased to 3.1% (95% CI (0.7, 5.5)); sleep duration increased to 13.7 min (95% CI (3.1, 24.3)).
Melatonin as a hypnotic: pro.	In diurnal species, nocturnal melatonin secretion coincides with the habitual hours of sleep, in contrast to nocturnal animals which are at the peak of their activity while producing melatonin. Studies in humans, diurnal non-human primates, birds and fish show that melatonin treatment can facilitate sleep initiation during the daytime or improve altered overnight sleep. Behaviorally, the sleep-promoting effects of melatonin are distinctly different from those of common hypnotics and are not associated with alterations in sleep architecture. The effects of melatonin on sleep are mediated via specific melatonin receptors and physiologic doses of the hormone, those inducing circulating levels under 200 pg/ml, are sufficient to promote sleep in diurnal species. Aging reduces responsiveness to melatonin treatment and this correlates with reduced functional potency of melatonin receptors. Since melatonin receptors are present in different tissues and organs and involved in multiple physiologic functions, using physiologically relevant doses (0.1-0.3 mg, orally) and time of administration (at bedtime) is recommended, in order to avoid known and unknown side effects of melatonin treatment.
Melatonin as a hypnotic: con.	The physiological roles of melatonin are still unclear despite almost 50 years of research. Elevated melatonin levels from either endogenous nocturnal production or exogenous daytime administration are associated in humans with effects including increased sleepiness, reduced core temperature, increased heat loss and other generally anabolic physiological changes. This supports the idea that endogenous melatonin increases nocturnal sleep propensity, either directly or indirectly via physiological processes associated with sleep. The article "Melatonin as a hypnotic--Pro", also in this issue, presents evidence to support this viewpoint. We do not entirely disagree, but nevertheless feel this is an overly simplistic interpretation of the available data. Our interpretation is that melatonin is primarily a neuroendocrine transducer promoting an increased propensity for 'dark appropriate' behavior. Thus, it is our view that exogenous melatonin is only hypnotic in those species or individuals for which endogenous melatonin increases sleep propensity and is consequently a dark appropriate outcome. Evidence supporting this position is drawn primarily from studies of exogenous administration of melatonin and its varied effects on sleep/wake behavior based on dose, time of administration, age and other factors. From this perspective, it will be shown that melatonin can exert hypnotic-like effects but only under limited circumstances.
Zolpidem: a review of its use in the management of insomnia.	Zolpidem (Ambien, Stilnox, Myslee, an imidazopyridine, is a nonbenzodiazepine hypnotic indicated for the short-term treatment of insomnia. Zolpidem improves sleep in patients with insomnia. Its overall tolerability is favourable when administered according to the manufacturer's prescribing information, with a low propensity to cause clinical residual effects, withdrawal, dependence or tolerance. In addition, most evidence suggests that the drug is associated with minimal rebound insomnia. In the only clinical trials that investigated the use of a hypnosedative drug in an 'as-needed' regimen, zolpidem produced a global improvement in sleep. Thus, zolpidem continues to be a useful therapeutic option in the pharmacological treatment of patients with insomnia.
Brain oxidation is an initial process in sleep induction.	CNS activity is generally coupled to the vigilance state, being primarily active during wakefulness and primarily inactive during deep sleep. During periods of high neuronal activity, a significant volume of oxygen is used to maintain neuronal membrane potentials, which subsequently produces cytotoxic reactive oxygen species (ROS). Glutathione, a major endogenous antioxidant, is an important factor protecting against ROS-mediated neuronal degeneration. Glutathione has also been proposed to be a sleep-promoting substance, yet the relationship between sleep and cerebral oxidation remains unclear. Here we report that i.c.v. infusion of the organic peroxide t-butyl-hydroperoxide at a concentration below that triggering neurodegeneration (0.1 micromol/100 microl/10 h) promotes sleep in rats. Also, microinjection (2 nmol, 2 microl) or microdialysis (100 microM, 20 min) of t-butyl-hydroperoxide into the preoptic/anterior hypothalamus (POAH) induces the release of the sleep-inducing neuromodulators, nitric oxide and adenosine, without causing neurodegeneration. Nitric oxide and adenosine release was inhibited by co-dialysis of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, d(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (D-AP5; 1 mM), suggesting that glutamate-induced neuronal excitation mediates the peroxide-induced release of nitric oxide and adenosine. Indeed, Ca2+ release from mitochondria and delayed-onset Ca2+ influx via N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors was visualized during peroxide exposure using Ca2+ indicator proteins (YC-2.1 and mitochondrial-targeted Pericam) expressed in organotypic cultures of the POAH. In the in vitro models, t-butyl-hydroperoxide (50 microM) causes dendritic swelling followed by the intracellular Ca2+ mobilization, and D-AP5 (100 microM) or glutathione (500 microM) inhibited t-butyl-hydroperoxide-induced intracellular Ca2+ mobilization and protected POAH neurons from oxidative stress. These data suggest that low-level subcortical oxidation under the control of an antioxidant system may trigger sleep via the Ca(2+)-dependent release of sleep-inducing neuromodulators in the POAH, and thus we propose that a moderate increase of ROS during wakefulness in the neuronal circuits regulating sleep may be an initial trigger in sleep induction.
An adenosine A receptor agonist induces sleep by increasing GABA release in the tuberomammillary nucleus to inhibit histaminergic systems in rats.	The adenosine A(2A) receptor (A(2A)R) has been demonstrated to play a crucial role in the regulation of the sleep process. However, the molecular mechanism of the A(2A)R-mediated sleep remains to be elucidated. Here we used electroencephalogram and electromyogram recordings coupled with in vivo microdialysis to investigate the effects of an A(2A)R agonist, CGS21680, on sleep and on the release of histamine and GABA in the brain. In freely moving rats, CGS21680 applied to the subarachnoid space underlying the rostral basal forebrain significantly promoted sleep and inhibited histamine release in the frontal cortex. The histamine release was negatively correlated with the amount of non-rapid eye movement sleep (r = - 0.652). In urethane-anesthetized rats, CGS21680 inhibited histamine release in both the frontal cortex and medial pre-optic area in a dose-dependent manner, and increased GABA release specifically in the histaminergic tuberomammillary nucleus but not in the frontal cortex. Moreover, the CGS21680-induced inhibition of histamine release was antagonized by perfusion of the tuberomammillary nucleus with a GABA(A) antagonist, picrotoxin. These results suggest that the A(2A)R agonist induced sleep by inhibiting the histaminergic system through increasing GABA release in the tuberomammillary nucleus.
Effects of zolpidem and flunitrazepam on nocturnal sleep of women subjectively complaining of insomnia.	Eighteen non-pregnant woman complaining about insomnia were polysomnographically investigated for 3 nights with weekly intervals. They received placebo, 2 mg flunitrazepam or 10 mg zolpidem according to a cross-over double blind design. The patients were selected by general practitioners on the basis of subjective complaints. Zolpidem is a recently introduced short-acting imidazopyridine hypnotic, binding to a subunit of the benzodiazepine 1 receptor. Flunitrazepam is a well-known hypnotic, binding to both the benzodiazepine 1 and 2 receptor subtypes. Objective recording did not substantiate the subjective complaint of insomnia. Sleep patterns during placebo differed only little from that expected from age matched healthy persons. Both flunitrazepam and zolpidem significantly shortened sleep onset (5 min of continuous sleep beginning with NREM 1 sleep). The sleep composition following flunitrazepam was characterized by an increase in NREM 2, a prolongation of the time of REM sleep, a reduction of REM sleep and an increase in NREM 3-4 sleep during the first 2 h of sleep. The sleep composition following zolpidem resembled more than seen in persons without sleep complaints. However, as compared to placebo, there was a decrease of the time spent awake during sleep and an increase in NREM 3-4 during the first 2 of sleep.
Effects of biperiden on sleep at baseline and after 72 h of REM sleep deprivation in the cat.	We examined the effects of the muscarinic M1 antagonist biperiden in cats. In the first experiment a dose-response analysis was performed with intraventricular injection (IV ventricle) of biperiden. In the second experiment after REM sleep deprivation cats were injected with either biperiden (0.1 mg/kg) or saline. Biperiden produced a reduction in REM sleep percentage and an increase in REM sleep latency with these high doses. The 0.1 mg/kg biperiden dose, which did not suppress REM sleep at baseline, did reduce the REM sleep rebound. The present study suggests a modulatory role of biperiden on REM sleep regulatory processes. The fact that an effect of biperiden is noted only at the high doses suggests that at these doses the drug is influencing non-M1 receptors. Changes in the sensitivity of these receptors as a result of REM sleep deprivation might explain why a dose of biperiden will reduce REM sleep rebound, while being ineffective in suppressing REM sleep at baseline.
A nonlinear approach to brain function: deterministic chaos and sleep EEG.	In order to perform a nonlinear dimensional analysis of the sleep electroencephalogram (EEG), we applied an algorithm proposed by Grassberger and Procaccia to calculate the correlation dimension D2 of different sleep stages under Lorazepam medication versus placebo. This correlation dimension characterizes the dynamics of the sleep EEG and it estimates the degrees of freedom of the signal under study. We demonstrate that slow-wave sleep depicts a much smaller dimensionality than light or rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, and that Lorazepam does not alter the EEG's dimensionality except in stage II and REM.
Comparison of nap and overnight polysomnography in children.	Overnight polysomnography is the "gold standard" for diagnosing sleep-disordered breathing. However, the limited number of resources for pediatric polysomnography make the availability of a screening test for sleep-disordered breathing highly desirable. Therefore, we compared 1 hour daytime nap polysomnography to overnight polysomnography in 40 children [mean age, 5.4 +/- 0.8 (SE) years] with sleep-disordered breathing; 76% of children were sedated with chloral hydrate for nap polysomnography; none was sedated for overnight polysomnography. Studies were done 26 +/- 4 days apart. Chest wall motion, ECG, end-tidal PCO2 (PETCO2), arterial oxygen saturation (SaO2), and electrooculogram were monitored. Nap studies had a sensitivity of 74%, specificity of 100%, positive predictive value of 100%, and negative predictive value of 17% in predicting sleep-disordered breathing. Significantly more children had obstructive apnea and desaturation (SaO2 less than 90%) during overnight polysomnography. The peak PETCO2 and the SaO2 nadir were significantly worse during overnight polysomnography. However, the percentage of time during which abnormalities were manifested did not differ between nap and overnight polysomnography. Despite the use of sedation, nap polysomnography underestimated sleep-disordered breathing. We conclude that sleep-disordered breathing detected by nap polysomnography is always confirmed by overnight polysomnography and speculate that nap polysomnography may be an effective screening method for sleep-disordered breathing. However, overnight polysomnography should be performed if nap polysomnography is inconclusive. Chloral hydrate may be used effectively to facilitate sleep for nap polysomnography in children.
Relationship between drug plasma concentrations and psychomotor performance after single doses of ethanol and benzodiazepines.	In a placebo controlled, crossover study psychomotor effects of single doses of diazepam, 10 and 20 mg, flunitrazepam, 1 and 2 mg, as well as 0.9 g ethanol/kg body weight were investigated over a time period of 6 h in 12 healthy men. Blood samples were collected simultaneously with the test sessions to determine drug concentrations in plasma or blood. The ethanol dose caused the least performance impairment, followed by 10 mg diazepam. The most pronounced impairment was caused by 2 mg flunitrazepam, whereas 20 mg diazepam and 1 mg flunitrazepam caused intermediate impairment and were approximately equipotent on group level. Considerable interindividual differences with respect to maximal impairment following a particular drug treatment were observed, with poor correlation between individual maximal impairments and individual peak plasma concentrations of the drug. The maximal impairment in simple reaction time following the flunitrazepam treatments occurred earlier relative to the peak plasma concentration of the drug as compared to the diazepam treatments. This may indicate that acute tolerance develops differently for the two drugs.
Comparison of the daytime sleep and performance effects of zolpidem versus triazolam.	Fifty healthy male subjects were administered zolpidem (5, 10, or 20 mg), triazolam (0.5 mg) or placebo, then attempted to sleep in a non-sleep-conducive environment. Subjects were awakened at 90 min post-drug (near peak blood concentration for both drugs) and tested on several cognitive tasks, including Two Column Addition, Logical Reasoning, and a Simulated Escape Task. This was followed by a second, 3.5-h sleep period. Hypnotic efficacy of the 20 mg zolpidem (Z-20) dose was similar to that of the 0.5 mg triazolam (TRIAZ) dose, as indicated by comparably shortened sleep latencies and lengthened total sleep times. Though accuracy on most performance measures was not affected by either drug, a reduction in speed of responding on logical reasoning and addition tasks was evident for the TRIAZ group at 90 min post-drug (Ps less than 0.05). On the simulated escape task, only triazolam significantly increased the mean number of errors, and interfered with subsequent memory of the task. Thus, zolpidem had milder effects on performance than triazolam. However, 60% of the Z-20 subjects experienced mild, adverse physical reactions. Performance differences between somnogenically comparable doses of zolpidem and triazolam may be due to their differential affinities for the BZ1 and BZ2 receptor subtypes.
Modafinil, sleep deprivation, and cognitive function in military and medical settings.	Military personnel of many professions, including health care workers, are routinely challenged with performing their duties during hours when the circadian rhythm is at its trough, namely, late night and early morning. Studies have shown that cognitive performance declines significantly during these hours. Although many pharmacologic agents have been studied in an attempt to find a safe medication to enhance alertness and cognitive function, no safe nonaddictive options have been identified. Modafinil is a novel wakefulness-promoting agent that has been shown to improve cognitive performance and promote wakefulness among shift workers. This article reviews the studies on modafinil administration and cognitive performance as they relate to military operations and the provision of health care by sleep-deprived individuals.
Behavioural effects of dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO): changes in sleep architecture in rats.	Dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) is an efficient solvent for water-insoluble compounds, widely used in biological studies and as a vehicle for drug therapy, but few data on its neurotoxic or behavioural effects is available. The aim of this work is to explore DMSO's effects upon sleep/wake states. Twenty male rats were sterotaxically prepared for polysomnography. Four concentrations of DMSO (5%, 10%, 15%, and 20%, in saline) were examined. DMSO or saline were administered intraperitoneally at the beginning of the light period. Three hours of polygraphic recording were evaluated for stages of vigilance after treatment. Sleep/wake parameters and EEG power spectral analyses during sleep were investigated. Results show no significant effect after 5% or 10% DMSO treatment. DMSO 15% increased mean episode duration of light slow wave sleep (SWS), decreasing mean episode duration of deep SWS and of quiet wake (QW). DMSO 20% increased light SWS enhancing number of episodes, while decreased deep SWS mean episode duration. EEG power spectra of sigma and delta activity were also affected by DMSO. Therefore, DMSO at 15% and 20% affects sleep architecture in rats, increasing light SWS and reducing deep SWS. Being aware of DMSO behavioural effects seems important since experimental artefacts caused by DMSO can lead to the erroneous interpretation of results.
Met-enkephalin, beta-endorphin and cortisol responses to sub-maximal exercise after sleep disturbances.	The present study compared the effects of partial sleep deprivation and the effects of an intake of a hypnotic compound (zolpidem) prior to bedtime, on sleep and on hormonal and metabolic adaptations to subsequent exercise. Sleep deprivation consisted of a delayed bedtime and an early getting-up time. Eight young subjects, who slept well and were highly trained athletes, were enrolled in this study. Sleep was recorded polygraphically and the following afternoon exercise was performed on a cycle ergometer for 30 min at 75% of maximal oxygen consumption (VO2max) after a 10-min warm up. Met-enkephalin, beta-endorphin, cortisol, and lactate concentrations were measured at rest and during exercise. The data obtained after experimental sleep, with and without medication were compared with those obtained in the reference condition with normal sleep. Both types of sleep reduction decreased the total sleep time, stage 2 sleep, and rapid eye movement sleep, whereas zolpidem administration did not modify either the duration of sleep or the sleep stages. After the reference night, plasma met-enkephalin did not show any significant change at the end of the submaximal exercise, whereas beta-endorphin, cortisol, and lactic acid concentrations increased significantly in all subjects. The changes in concentration in beta-endorphin were significantly related to the changes in cortisol (r = 0.78; P less than 0.01) and to the changes in plasma lactic acid (r = 0.58; P less than 0.05). Cortisol concentrations were also related to lactic acid values (r = 0.94; P less than 0.01).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Susceptibility to, tolerance to, and physical dependence on ethanol and barbital in two inbred strains of rats.	1. Ethanol-induced sleep time was significantly longer in F344 than LEW rats. However, there is no difference in barbital-induced sleep time between F344 and LEW. 2. Development of tolerance to ethanol-induced motor impairment was slightly faster in F344 than in LEW rats. While, LEW rats more easily developed tolerance to the impairment by barbital in comparison with F344 rats. 3. F344 and LEW rats were chronically treated with liquid diet containing ethanol or with barbital-admixed food. After the termination of ethanol and barbital treatments, various withdrawal signs occurred in F344 rats, including tremor and convulsions, whereas LEW rats showed no convulsions. Withdrawal scores of ethanol and barbital were significantly higher in F344 than in LEW rats. 4. These results suggest that strain differences in physical dependence on ethanol and barbital may be mainly influenced by the susceptibility to ethanol and the development of tolerance to barbital, respectively.
Sleep, awakenings, and insulin-like growth factor-I modulate the growth hormone (GH) secretory response to GH-releasing hormone.	To delineate possible factors influencing the magnitude of the GH response to GH-releasing hormone (GHRH), eight young healthy men participated in seven 16-h studies involving saline infusions or injections of 0.3 micrograms/kg GHRH at various times of day and stages of sleep. GH responses were quantified by deconvolution, a procedure allowing for secretory rates to be estimated from peripheral levels. While the plasma responses were monophasic, deconvolution revealed that the secretory response to GHRH generally included several distinct bursts in rapid succession. The intersubject variability of GH responses was very wide, but for a given subject, the response was quite reproducible (mean +/- SEM coefficient of variation, 21 +/- 3%). When GHRH was given during the waking period, the magnitude of the response was directly related to the amount of spontaneous GH secretion, negatively correlated with circulating levels of insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) and was not influenced by time of day. When GHRH was given during slow wave sleep, the magnitude of the response was enhanced. When GHRH was given during rapid eye movement sleep, the response was similar to that observed during wake. Awakenings during sleep consistently inhibited the secretory response to GHRH, and resumption of sleep was associated with a reappearance of the secretory process. Thus, in normal men of similar age and body weight, the GH response to GHRH is dependent on the sleep or wake condition, circulating levels of IGF-I, and, possibly, genetic and lifestyle factors.
Chloramphenicol decreases brain glucose utilization and modifies the sleep-wake cycle architecture in rats.	We studied the effects of chloramphenicol on brain glucose utilization and sleep-wake cycles in rat. After slightly anaesthetized animals were injected with [18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose, we acquired time-concentration curves from three radiosensitive beta microprobes inserted into the right and left frontal cortices and the cerebellum, and applied a three-compartment model to calculate the cerebral metabolic rates for glucose. The sleep-wake cycle architecture was analysed in anaesthetic-free rats by recording electroencephalographic and electromyographic signals. Although chloramphenicol is a well-established inhibitor of oxidative phosphorylation, no compensatory increase in glucose utilization was detected in frontal cortex. Instead, chloramphenicol induced a significant 23% decrease in the regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose. Such a metabolic response indicates a potential mismatch between energy supply and neuronal activity induced by chloramphenicol administration. Regarding sleep-wake states, chloramphenicol treatment was followed by a 64% increase in waking, a 20% decrease in slow-wave sleep, and a marked 59% loss in paradoxical sleep. Spectral analysis of the electroencephalogram indicates that chloramphenicol induces long-lasting modifications of delta-band power during slow-wave sleep.
Influence of Yoga and Ayurveda on self-rated sleep in a geriatric population.	Sleep in older persons is characterized by decreased ability to stay asleep, resulting in fragmented sleep and reduced daytime alertness. Pharmacological treatment of insomnia in older persons is associated with hazardous side effects. Hence, the present study was designed to compare the effects of Yoga and Ayurveda on the self rated sleep in a geriatric population.
Effect of therapeutic theophylline levels on the sleep quality and daytime cognitive performance of normal subjects.	The effect of theophylline on sleep quality and cognitive performance in patients with obstructive lung disease has been the subject of controversy. To examine the direct effects of theophylline on sleep quality and cognitive performance, without confounding effects from bronchodilatation, we have undertaken a study of the drug in healthy subjects. A double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover protocol was used to study the effect of oral sustained-release theophylline (Theodur) on subjective sleep quality, objective sleep quality, and cognitive performance. Overnight sleep studies were carried out on Nights 13 and 14 of each 2-wk study limb, and cognitive performance tests administered on Days 1 and 13 of each limb. A total of 18 subjects satisfactorily completed the study (8 males, median age 37, range 24 to 67 yr). Theophylline levels were median 10.2, range 2.3 to 13.3 micrograms/ml on Day 1 and 14.7, range 9.6 to 17.5 micrograms/ml on Day 13. No significant difference was observed between theophylline and placebo on subjective or objective sleep quality or on acute or medium-term cognitive performance. We conclude that theophylline does not affect sleep quality or cognitive performance in normal adults.
A comparative evaluation of the changes in the duration of "hexenal sleep" in acute radiation and combined radiation-thermal lesions]	In experiments with Wistar rats it was found that the increase in the length of the "hexenal dream" during the first week after the effect of a mixture of radiation and heat is much more pronounced than that observed after exposure to radiation alone and independent of the severity of a radiation component (gamma radiation, 4, 6 and 7.5 Gy). The peculiarities revealed in the hypnotic effect of hexenal develop against the background of the postirradiation aggravation of hypoalbuminemia and decrease in the liver ATP.
Differences in response to the aversive properties and activity effects of low dose ethanol in LAS and HAS selectively bred rats.	Rats selectively bred for high alcohol sleep times (HAS) and those that are less affected (LAS) by hypnotic doses (3.0-3.6 g/kg) of ethanol were tested for differential responses to the aversive effects of 1.0 g/kg ethanol in a conditioned place preference task. Likewise, the effects of 0.3-1.0 g/kg ethanol on spontaneous locomotor activity over a 30-min period, as well as the loss of righting reflex with a higher ethanol dose (3.0 g/kg), were determined in these animals. The LAS rats reacted more aversively to 1.0 g/kg during conditioned place aversion testing than the HAS animals and also had a shorter mean sleeping time following 3.0 g/kg ethanol. Furthermore, dose-related depression of spontaneous motor activity was seen in the HAS animals and not in the LAS animals over a 30-min period using doses of 0.3, 0.6, or 1.0 g/kg (10% w/v) ethanol. Taken together, the results indicate that the intoxicating sequelae of high ethanol doses, such as ataxia and sedation, may not be correlated with the aversive effects of low ethanol doses.
Effects of trazodone on EEG sleep and clinical state in major depression.	The effects of the antidepressant trazodone on clinical state and on EEG sleep in eight outpatients with a major depressive disorder were investigated in a single blind study. A medication period of 5 weeks was preceded and followed by one week placebo treatment. Five subjects showed a positive treatment response. Trazodone did not influence sleep continuity and slow wave sleep, but did suppress REM sleep significantly. A significant increase of REM sleep latency was also found. These results are in contrast with earlier reports on trazodone's effects on EEG sleep but are in accordance with the general finding that antidepressants influence REM sleep characteristics without necessarily affecting sleep continuity.
Effects of ethanol injection to the preoptic area on sleep and temperature in rats.	Bilateral microinjection of ethanol to the preoptic area of rats causes a dose-dependent hypnotic effect at doses that do not affect brain temperature. Rats were polygraphically recorded for 6 h, and brain temperature was recorded every 10 min for 3 h. Administration of 0.047 mumol ethanol increased total sleep during the 3-6 h interval, while 0.24 and 0.47 mumol ethanol increased deep slow-wave sleep (SWS2) and total sleep during the 3-6- and 0-6-h intervals. The 0.24-mumol ethanol microinjections also increased REM sleep for the 0-6-h interval. No changes in sleep latencies were observed.
Prescribing short-acting hypnosedatives. Current recommendations from a safety perspective.	The duration of action of hypnosedative drugs is mainly determined by their pharmacokinetic properties. The ideal drug should induce sleep within 30 min and maintain a normal pattern of sleep for 6 to 8h, with little or no residual effects the next morning. Clinically, 4 types of insomnia can be distinguished: prolonged latency, 1 to 2 long periods of wakefulness, frequent short awakenings and early morning awakening. An ultra-short-acting drug (2 to 3h), such as triazolam, is useful for prolonged latency. Temazepam, lormetazepam and loprazolam provide more prolonged effects (8 to 10h). These benzodiazepines are not free of daytime adverse effects, particularly drowsiness, dependency potential, rebound insomnia and habituation to the drug effect. Zopiclone and zolpidem are new nonbenzodiazepine hypnotics that are as effective as benzodiazepines but without the problems associated with the latter. They produce a more normal electroencephalogram sleep pattern and so would seem to approach to the ideal hypnosedative for the future. However only further clinical trials and widespread use in practice will determine whether they will live up to this potential.
The hexobarbital sleeping time in a pharmacologico-toxicological experiment with special reference to age and chronobiologically-limited variations in Wistar rat strain WIST/Lppt]	Investigations were performed to determine the hexobarbital sleeping time (HST) of a strain of Wistar rats (WIST/Lppt). Another aim of the studies was to demonstrate possibilities to use the HST as a method to get additional informations during pharmacological and toxicological experiments. The age--and sex--dependent changes in the hexobarbital sleeping time of the investigated strain of rats are in coincidence with results of other authors, using different rat strains. Additionally, the HST more or less depends on circadian and circannual rhythm. It was stated that the HST as a prescreening-method before starting investigations in detail is of great importance.
Recovery of hepatic function determined by cytochrome P450-dependent drug metabolism lags after compensatory hepatic volume changes after portal vein ligation in rats.	Clinically, portal vein embolization has been proven to be useful as a preoperative treatment for major hepatic surgeries with impaired liver function. However, its effects on the metabolism and elimination of various drugs after portal vein embolization or ligation remain to be elucidated.
A repeated dose comparison of dichloralphenazone, flunitrazepam and amylobarbitone sodium on some aspects of sleep and early morning behaviour in normal subjects.	1 Seven normal subjects were given three different hypnotics (flunitrazepam 1 mg, amylobarbitone sodium 100 mg and dichloralphenazone 1300 mg) for four consecutive nights each. 2 All three substances improved subjective assessment of the ease of getting to sleep. Flunitrazepam was rated as better than eithr dichloralphenazone or amylobarbitone sodium in this respect. 3 The perceived quality of induced sleep was not altered by any of the preparations. 4 There was a disturbance of the subjective ratings of getting to sleep following cessation of treatment with dichloralphenazone, giving tentative support to the existence of a 'rebound' effect. 5 Dichloralphenazone produced an impairment in psychomotor performance as measured on a complex reaction time test following four nights medication with the drug.
Pharmacological studies with the alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist midaglizole. Part II: Central and peripheral nervous systems.	Pharmacological properties of midaglizole (DG-5128, CAS 66529-17-7) on central and peripheral nervous systems were investigated in comparison with those of tolbutamide. 1. Central nervous system: Midaglizole showed little or no effects on general behavior (mouse), spontaneous motor activity (mouse), hexobarbital anesthesia (mouse), conditioned avoidance response (rat) and body temperature (rabbit) at an oral dose of 100 mg/kg. It also produced little or no changes in electroencephalogram (cat) and spinal reflex (cat) after intravenous dosing of 10 mg/kg. The drug lacked anticonvulsant and analgesic activities (mouse). Midaglizole produced clonic convulsion, mydriasis, lacrimation, increase in pinna reflex, decrease in spontaneous motor activity, increase in pain threshold (mouse) and rise in body temperature (rabbit) at oral dose of 300 mg/kg. Tolbutamide showed similar effects except that it potentiated hexobarbital anesthesia, slightly decreased convulsion and tended to decrease body temperature. 2. Autonomic nervous system: Midaglizole potentiated the pressor response to norepinephrine and inhibited the depressor response to acetylcholine at an intravenous dose of 10 mg/kg (anesthetized dogs). Similar results were observed after dosing of tolbutamide. Midaglizole potentiated the contractile response of nictitating membrane to pre- and post-ganglionic cervical sympathetic nerve stimulation after intravenous dosing of 1 mg/kg (cat). Tolbutamide lacked the activity on the contraction elicited by both stimulations. Midaglizole and tolbutamide had little or no effect on pupil size (rabbit). 3. Skeletal muscle contraction (neuromuscular junction): Midaglizole (3-10 mg/kg i.v.) slightly potentiated the tibialis anterior muscle contraction induced by peroneal nerve stimulation, but did not potentiate the contraction by direct (muscle) stimulation (rabbit). On the other hand, tolbutamide increased the contraction induced by both nerve and muscle stimulation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effect of transdermal nicotine patches on sleep and dreams.	This study was undertaken to determine the effect of 24-h transdermal nicotine patches on sleep and dream mentation in 15 smokers aged 20 to 33. Utilising a repeated measures design, it was found that more time awake and more ASDA micro-arousals occurred while wearing the nicotine patch compared to placebo. Also, the percentage of REM sleep decreased, but REM latency and the proportion of time spent in NREM sleep stages did not change significantly. Dream reports containing visual imagery, visual imagery ratings and the number of visualizable nouns were significantly greater from REM compared to Stage 2 awakenings, regardless of patch condition. However, a general interaction effect was observed. Stage 2 dream variables remained equivalent across nicotine and placebo conditions. Within REM sleep, more dream reports containing visual imagery occurred while wearing the nicotine patch, and these were rated as more vivid. The greater frequency of visual imagery reports and higher imagery ratings specifically from REM sleep suggests that previously reported dreaming side effects from 24-h nicotine patches may be specific to REM sleep. Combined with previous animal studies showing that transdermally delivered nicotine blocks PGO activity in REM sleep, the current results do no appear consistent with PGO-based hypotheses of dreaming, such as the Activation-Synthesis (AS) or Activation, Input and Modulation (AIM) models.
Efficacy and safety of zolpidem-MR: a double-blind, placebo-controlled study in adults with primary insomnia.	To evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of modified-release zolpidem (zolpidem-MR 12.5mg) for the treatment of primary insomnia in adults.
Sleep deprivation and hormone therapy in postmenopausal women.	Sleep complaints increase after menopause, but literature on the effect of postmenopausal hormone therapy (HT) on sleep is controversial. The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of ageing and HT on sleep quality, assessed using polysomnography, and on the accuracy of the subjective estimation of sleep quality in women before and after sleep deprivation.
Efficacy and safety of pramipexole in idiopathic restless legs syndrome: a polysomnographic dose-finding study--the PRELUDE study.	To evaluate the effects of pramipexole (0.125-0.75 mg/d) on polysomnographic (PSG) measures and patient and clinician ratings of restless legs syndrome (RLS).
Use of pramipexole in REM sleep behavior disorder: results from a case series.	Rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavior disorder (RBD) has a known association with other medical conditions, including narcolepsy and neurodegenerative diseases such as synuclienopathies. RBD is currently treated with clonazepam as a first-line therapy. Recent research suggests that the pathophysiology underlying RBD may involve a dopaminergic deficiency, given its association with Parkinson syndromes and restless legs syndrome (RLS). We report on the efficacy of pramipexole, a dopaminergic D2-3 receptor agonist, in the treatment of RBD.
Multiple vaccine and pyridostigmine interactions: effects on EEG and sleep in the common marmoset.	Following active service during the 1990/1991 Gulf conflict, a number of UK and US veterans presented with a diverse range of symptoms, collectively known as Gulf Veterans' Illnesses (GVI). The administration of vaccines and/or the pretreatment against possible nerve agent poisoning, pyridostigmine bromide (PB), given to Armed Forces personnel during the Gulf conflict has been implicated as a possible factor in the aetiology of these illnesses. The possibility that long-term health effects may result from the administration of these vaccines (anthrax, pertussis, plague, yellow fever, polio, typhoid, tetanus, hepatitis B, meningococcal meningitis and cholera) and/or PB, have been investigated using a non-human primate model, the common marmoset. This paper reports the results from two aspects of the study, brain electrical activity (EEG, collected during performance of a touchscreen mediated discrimination task) and sleep. There were no marked long-term changes in EEG or sleep patterns that could be attributed to vaccines and/or PB administration. The changes that were detected were predominantly time related and independent of treatment. Where statistical differences were detected between treatments, the magnitudes of the difference were relatively minor and therefore not regarded as having long term biological significance.
Effect of neuroleptic treatment on polysomnographic measures in schizophrenia.	To study the effects of neuroleptic therapy on sleep EEG variables in schizophrenia, as well as the clinical correlates of these variables, we performed polysomnographic (PSG) studies on 14 schizophrenic inpatients before and during neuroleptic therapy. Sleep continuity measures improved after 3 weeks of neuroleptic therapy, showing decreased sleep latency and improved sleep efficiency. REM latency increased with treatment, although half the patients continued to exhibit REM latencies less than 60 min. Other sleep stages and measures of REM sleep (density, activity, number of periods) did not appear to change with neuroleptic treatment. At baseline, REM latency had strong negative correlations with BPRS and SANS scores, but with 3 weeks of such treatment, this association disappeared. Further work is needed to distinguish direct medication effects from the effects of the changing clinical state on PSG measures.
Cannabidiol, a constituent of Cannabis sativa, modulates sleep in rats.	Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta(9)-THC) and cannabidiol (CBD) are two major constituents of Cannabis sativa. Delta(9)-THC modulates sleep, but no clear evidence on the role of CBD is available. In order to determine the effects of CBD on sleep, it was administered intracerebroventricular (icv) in a dose of 10 microg/5 microl at the beginning of either the lights-on or the lights-off period. We found that CBD administered during the lights-on period increased wakefulness (W) and decreased rapid eye movement sleep (REMS). No changes on sleep were observed during the dark phase. Icv injections of CBD (10 microg/5microl) induced an enhancement of c-Fos expression in waking-related brain areas such as hypothalamus and dorsal raphe nucleus (DRD). Microdialysis in unanesthetized rats was carried out to characterize the effects of icv administration of CBD (10 microg/5 microl) on extracellular levels of dopamine (DA) within the nucleus accumbens. CBD induced an increase in DA release. Finally, in order to test if the waking properties of CBD could be blocked by the sleep-inducing endocannabinoid anandamide (ANA), animals received ANA (10 microg/2.5 microl, icv) followed 15 min later by CBD (10 microg/2.5 microl). Results showed that the waking properties of CBD were not blocked by ANA. In conclusion, we found that CBD modulates waking via activation of neurons in the hypothalamus and DRD. Both regions are apparently involved in the generation of alertness. Also, CBD increases DA levels as measured by microdialysis and HPLC procedures. Since CBD induces alertness, it might be of therapeutic value in sleep disorders such as excessive somnolence.
Effects of antenatal magnesium sulfate and corticosteroid therapy on sleep states of preterm infants.	This exploratory longitudinal study was designed to compare the neonatal illness severity, sleep-wake, and respiratory sleep behaviors of preterm infants whose mothers received prenatal corticosteroids and/or magnesium sulfate (MgSO4) with those of infants whose mothers did not receive these medications. The 134 infants were divided into four groups: those whose mothers received MgSO4 only, those who received steroids only, those who received both MgSO4 and steroids, and those who received neither. The groups did not differ on infant characteristics or illness severity. Infants exposed to MgSO4 had more active sleep without rapid eye movement, indicating poorly organized active sleep. The MgSO4 -only group had higher quiet sleep regularity scores and fewer state changes. These findings suggest that fetal exposure to MgSO4 may subtly affect the central nervous system.
Pharmacokinetic profile of a new modified release formulation of zolpidem designed to improve sleep maintenance.	The aim of this study was to compare the relative bioavailability and the pharmacokinetic profile of a single oral dose of a zolpidem modified-release (MR) 12.5-mg formulation with those of the standard 10-mg zolpidem immediate-release (IR) formulation. Absolute bioavailabilities of oral formulations were evaluated using intravenously (i.v.) administered zolpidem as a reference. Twenty-four healthy, Caucasian, male volunteers (18-45 years old) received single doses of three oral formulations (zolpidem-MR 12.5 mg, zolpidem-IR 10 mg and an experimental form) and zolpidem i.v. infusion (8 mg) in a randomized, open-label, crossover trial. Blood samples (18 time-points) were collected up to 16 h post-dose after oral administration and up to 12 h post-dose after i.v. administration. Pharmacokinetic parameters were determined by non-compartmental analysis, allowing comparisons between treatments based on estimated ratios and differences, with 90% confidence intervals. The initial absorption phase of the zolpidem-MR formulation was as fast as that of zolpidem-IR with no significant difference in t(max). With zolpidem-MR 12.5 mg, C(max) was moderately lower than with zolpidem-IR (ratio of 0.82), and plasma zolpidem concentrations were maintained above those observed with zolpidem-IR for a longer period of time, particularly from 3 to 6 h post-dose. This was confirmed by an increase in half-value duration (HVD) from 2.3 h with zolpidem-IR to 4.6 h with zolpidem-MR 12.5 mg. The mean terminal half-life was similar between formulations. Zolpidem-MR 12.5 mg provides the appropriate pharmacokinetic characteristics to extend plasma zolpidem concentrations into the middle of the night (3-6 h post-dose), while retaining the same t(max) and terminal half-life.
Neuromedin U in the paraventricular and arcuate hypothalamic nuclei increases non-exercise activity thermogenesis.	Brain neuromedin U (NMU) has been associated with the regulation of both energy intake and expenditure. We hypothesized that NMU induces changes in spontaneous physical activity and nonexercise activity thermogenesis (NEAT) through its actions on hypothalamic nuclei. We applied increasing doses of NMU directly to the paraventricular (PVN) and arcuate hypothalamic nuclei using chronic unilateral guide cannulae. In both nuclei, NMU significantly and dose-dependently increased physical activity and NEAT. Moreover, NMU increased physical activity and NEAT during the first hour of the dark phase, indicating that the reduction of sleep is unlikely to account for the increased physical activity seen with NMU treatment. As a positive control, we demonstrated that paraventricular NMU also significantly decreased food intake, as well as body weight. These data demonstrate that NMU is positively associated with NEAT through its actions in the PVN and arcuate nucleus. In co-ordination with its suppressive effects on feeding, the NEAT-activating effects of NMU make it a potential candidate in the combat of obesity.
Agomelatine targets a range of major depressive disorder symptoms.	Servier, and US licensee Novartis AG, are developing the oral melatonin MT1 and MT2 agonist and 5-HT2B and 5-HT2C antagonist agomelatine as a once-daily treatment for major depressive disorder (MDD) and its symptoms, particularly anxiety, and sleep and circadian disturbances. Phase III trials have been completed and a registration dossier has been submitted to the EMEA in Western Europe.
Effects of nabilone, a synthetic cannabinoid, on postoperative pain.	Cannabinoids have been shown to have analgesic properties in animal studies, but a potential role for these drugs in acute pain management has not been established. It was hypothesized that nabilone, an oral cannabinoid synthetic tetrahydrocannabinol analogue, decreases morphine consumption, pain scores, nausea and vomiting following major surgery.
Searching for new options for treating insomnia: are melatonin and ramelteon beneficial?	Insomnia is one of the most common complaints faced in clinical practice. The limited pharmacological options available make the treatment of this complaint a challenge. All of the available benzodiazepines and non-benzodiazepine hypnotics have the potential to induce addiction, cause withdrawal symptoms, or trigger rebound insomnia. Further, the evidence supporting the utility of commonly prescribed options such as antidepressants and antipsychotics is limited. Melatonin is a hormone that has been associated with soporific effects. Based on this premise, a melatonin receptor agonist was created. Ramelteon was approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 2005 and is the only medication indicated for the long-term treatment of insomnia. A critical review with a clinical perspective of randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trials was conducted to determine the efficacy of melatonin and ramelteon for the treatment of insomnia. Based on this review, it appears that more placebo-controlled trials are indicated before valid judgments concerning the efficacy of both melatonin and ramelteon can be made. In the meantime, there is some support for the use of melatonin for the treatment of insomnia, and findings concerning ramelteon also appear promising. Nevertheless, clinicians who prescribe melatonin or ramelteon should be cautious and carefully monitor both potential benefits and adverse effects, since data on melatonin are based on studies with multiple limitations and only three controlled trials have been done with ramelteon.
Depression and sleep: pathophysiology and treatment.	This review examines the relationship between sleep and depression. Most depressive disorders are characterized by subjective sleep disturbances, and the regulation of sleep is intricately linked to the same mechanisms that are implicated in the pathophysiology of depression. After briefly reviewing the physiology and topography of normal sleep, the disturbances revealed in studies of sleep in depression using polysomnographic recordings and neuroimaging assessments are discussed. Next, treatment implications of the disturbances are reviewed at both clinical and neurobiologic levels. Most antidepressant medications suppress rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, although this effect is neither necessary nor sufficient for clinical efficacy. Effects on patients' difficulties initiating and maintaining sleep are more specific to particular types of antidepressants. Ideally, an effective antidepressant will result in normalization of disturbed sleep in concert with resolution of the depressive syndrome, although few interventions actually restore decreased slow-wave sleep. Antidepressants that block central histamine 1 and serotonin 2 tend to have stronger effects on sleep maintenance, but are also prone to elicit complaints of daytime sedation. Adjunctive treatment with sedative hypnotic medications--primarily potent, shorter-acting benzodiazepine and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA A)-selective compounds such as zolpidem--are often used to treat associated insomnia more rapidly. Cognitive behavioral therapy and other nonpharmacologic strategies are also helpful.
The physiological and pathophysiological roles of neuronal histamine: an insight from human positron emission tomography studies.	Histamine neurons are exclusively located in the posterior hypothalamus, and project their fibers to almost all regions of the human brain. Although a significant amount of research has been done to clarify the functions of the histaminergic neuron system in animals, a few studies have been reported on the roles of this system in the human brain. In past studies, we have been able to clarify some of the functions of histamine neurons using different methods, such as histamine-related gene knockout mice or human positron emission tomography (PET). The histaminergic neuron system is known to modulate wakefulness, the sleep-wake cycle, appetite control, learning, memory and emotion. Accordingly we have proposed that histamine neurons have a dual effect on the CNS, with both stimulatory and suppressive actions. As a stimulator, neuronal histamine is one of the most important systems that stimulate and maintain wakefulness. Brain histamine also functions as a suppressor in bioprotection against various noxious and unfavorable stimuli of convulsion, drug sensitization, denervation supersensitivity, ischemic lesions and stress susceptibility. This review summarizes our works on the functions of histamine neurons using human PET studies, including the development of radiolabeled tracers for histamine H1 receptors (H1R: (11)C-doxepin and (11)C-pyrilamine), PET measurements of H1R in depression, schizophrenia, and Alzheimer's disease (AD), and studies on the sedative effects of antihistamines using H(2)(15)O and H1R occupancy in the human brain. These molecular and functional PET studies in humans are useful for drug development in this millennium.
Ghrelin microinjection into forebrain sites induces wakefulness and feeding in rats.	Ghrelin, a gut-brain peptide, is best known for its role in the stimulation of feeding and growth hormone release. In the brain, orexin, neuropeptide Y (NPY), and ghrelin are parts of a food intake regulatory circuit. Orexin and NPY are also implicated in maintaining wakefulness. Previous experiments in our laboratory revealed that intracerebroventricular injections of ghrelin induce wakefulness in rats. To further elucidate the possible role of ghrelin in the regulation of arousal, we studied the effects of microinjections of ghrelin into hypothalamic sites, which are implicated in the regulation of feeding and sleep, such as the lateral hypothalamus (LH), medial preoptic area (MPA), and paraventricular nucleus (PVN) on sleep in rats. Sleep responses, motor activity, and food intake after central administration of 0.04, 0.2, or 1 mug (12, 60, or 300 pmol) ghrelin were recorded. Microinjections of ghrelin into the LH had strong wakefulness-promoting effects lasting for 2 h. Wakefulness was also stimulated by ghrelin injection into the MPA and PVN; the effects were confined to the first hour after the injection. Ghrelin's non-rapid-eye-movement sleep-suppressive effect was accompanied by attenuation in the electroencephalographic (EEG) slow-wave activity and changes in the EEG power spectrum. Food consumption was significantly stimulated after microinjections of ghrelin into each hypothalamic site. Together, these results are consistent with the hypothesis that forebrain ghrelinergic mechanisms play a role in the regulation of vigilance, possibly through activating the components of the food intake- and arousal-promoting network formed by orexin and NPY.
Evidence that the beta-acids fraction of hops reduces central GABAergic neurotransmission.	Humulus lupulus (hops) is traditionally used as a tranquilizing herbal remedy. Here, we investigated the in vivo and in vitro effect of hop beta-acids on central nervous system function. Oral administration of beta-acids (5-10mg/kg) in rats produced an increased exploratory activity in the open field, a reduction in the pentobarbital hypnotic activity and a worsening of picrotoxin-induced seizures. When dosed at 10mg/kg, beta-acids increased, in the elevated plus maze, open arm entries reducing in parallel those in closed arms. In the forced swimming test, we observed a reduction in the immobility time that could suggest an antidepressant-like activity. Electrophysiological studies performed on cerebellar granule cells in culture showed that the beta-acids fraction decreased GABA-evoked current in a dose-dependent way. The effect was not inhibited by the benzodiazepine antagonist Ro 15-1788. Benzodiazepine receptors involvement was also excluded by [(3)H]-Ro 15-1788 binding assay. In conclusion, the behavioral effects of beta-acids fraction could be explained by a reduction in the GABAergic activity although we cannot rule out the involvement of other neurotransmitter systems.
Effects of caffeine are more marked on daytime recovery sleep than on nocturnal sleep.	Caffeine is often used to counteract sleepiness generated by sleep deprivation, jet lag, and shift-work, and is consumed at different times of day. Caffeine also has effects on sleep. However, little is known about the interaction between sleep deprivation, circadian timing, and caffeine consumption on sleep. In this study, we compared the effects of caffeine on nocturnal sleep initiated at habitual circadian time and on daytime recovery sleep. Thirty-four moderate caffeine consumers participated in both caffeine (200 mg) and placebo (lactose) conditions in a double-blind crossover design. Seventeen subjects followed their habitual sleep-wake cycle and slept in the laboratory during the night (Night), while 17 subjects were sleep deprived for one night and recovery sleep started in the morning (DayRec). All subjects received a capsule of 100 mg of caffeine (or placebo) 3 h before bedtime, and the remaining dose 1 h before bedtime. Compared to placebo, caffeine lengthened sleep latency, increased stage 1, and reduced stage 2 and slow-wave sleep (SWS) in both groups. However, caffeine reduced sleep efficiency more strongly in the DayRec group, and decreased sleep duration and REM sleep only in that group. The stronger effects of caffeine on daytime recovery sleep compared to nocturnal sleep are probably the consequence of the combined influence of increasing circadian wake propensity drive and the dissipation of homeostatic sleep pressure. We propose that the reduction of SWS by caffeine during daytime sleep increases the impact of the circadian wake signal on sleep. These results have implications for individuals using caffeine during night time.
Sleep and GABA levels in the oral part of rat pontine reticular formation are decreased by local and systemic administration of morphine.	Morphine, a mu-opioid receptor agonist, is a commonly prescribed treatment for pain. Although highly efficacious, morphine has many unwanted side effects including disruption of sleep and obtundation of wakefulness. One mechanism by which morphine alters sleep and wakefulness may be by modulating GABAergic signaling in brain regions regulating arousal, including the pontine reticular nucleus, oral part (PnO). This study used in vivo microdialysis in unanesthetized Sprague-Dawley rat to test the hypothesis that mu-opioid receptors modulate PnO GABA levels. Validation of the high performance liquid chromatographic technique used to quantify GABA was obtained by dialyzing the PnO (n=4 rats) with the GABA reuptake inhibitor nipecotic acid (500 microM). Nipecotic acid caused a 185+/-20% increase in PnO GABA levels, confirming chromatographic detection of GABA and demonstrating the existence of functional GABA transporters in rat PnO. Morphine caused a concentration-dependent decrease in PnO GABA levels (n=25 rats). Coadministration of morphine (100 microM) with naloxone (1 microM), a mu-opioid receptor antagonist, blocked the morphine-induced decrease in PnO GABA levels (n=5 rats). These results show for the first time that mu-opioid receptors in rat PnO modulate GABA levels. A second group of rats (n=6) was used to test the hypothesis that systemically administered morphine also decreases PnO GABA levels. I.v. morphine caused a significant (P<0.05) decrease (19%) in PnO GABA levels relative to control i.v. infusions of saline. Finally, microinjections followed by 2 h recordings of electroencephalogram and electromyogram tested the hypothesis that PnO morphine administration disrupts sleep (n=8 rats). Morphine significantly (P<0.05) increased the percent of time spent in wakefulness (65%) and significantly (P<0.05) decreased the percent of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep (-53%) and non-REM sleep (-69%). The neurochemical and behavioral data suggest that morphine may disrupt sleep, at least in part, by decreasing GABAergic transmission in the PnO.
Biochemical assessment of preoperative stress: a study with diazepam and measurement of monoamine metabolites and catecholamines in cerebrospinal fluid and plasma.	Diazepam 5 mg or an inert placebo tablet was given as preoperative hypnotic on the night before operation to two groups (n = 18 in each) of healthy women having elective Caesarean section under spinal analgesia. A third group (n = 18) received no hypnotic. The quality of the preoperative night's sleep assessed subjectively was significantly better in the diazepam-treated patients compared with those receiving no drug. The diazepam-treated patients had also smaller CSF concentrations of noradrenaline (NA) and of the dopamine metabolite, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC). In comparison with the two other patient groups, in the diazepam group there was no correlation between demographic, physiological or subjectively estimated variables and CSF or plasma measurements of monoamine transmitters and their metabolites. Preoperative fear and apprehension correlated most strongly with preoperative heart rate and with the increase in heart rate from the previous day. The monoamine neurotransmitters or their metabolites were of limited use in monitoring the intensity of preoperative fear and anxiety.
Modafinil enhances extracellular levels of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens and increases wakefulness in rats.	Modafinil (MOD) is a wakefulness-promoting drug that improves the alertness levels in narcolepsy; however, the molecular mechanism of action remains to be elucidated. We found that after a single icv injection of MOD (10 microg/5 microl) the extracellular levels of dopamine (DA) and l-DOPA collected from the nucleus accumbens were increased and decreased, respectively. Separately, the icv administration of MOD (10 microg/5 microl) to rats enhanced wakefulness (W) whereas diminished sleep during 4h. Lastly, the alertness induced by MOD was partially antagonized by the sleep-inducing endocannabinoid anandamide (ANA). We conclude that MOD enhances the extracellular levels of DA, promotes W and its effects on sleep are partially blocked by ANA.
Is interleukin 2 a neuromodulator in the brain?	A bidirectional flow of information exists between the CNS and the neuroendocrine and immune systems, representing an important homeostatic mechanism in the body. Lymphokines and other products of immunocompetent cells seem to play a crucial role in this communication and seem to exert powerful effects on neurones in the brain. In this article, Giuseppe Nistic and Giovambattista De Sarro describe the central effects following interleukin 2 (IL-2) microinfusion into several areas of the rat brain. The locus coeruleus seems to be the main site in the brain through which IL-2 exerts soporific effects. In addition, the possible transducing mechanisms coupling IL-2 receptor stimulation and the electroencephalogram (EEG) spectrum power responses elicited from the locus coeruleus seem to involve stimulation of specific receptors coupled to adenylate cyclase through a Gi protein.
Sedative and hypnotic activities of the ethanol fraction from Fructus Schisandrae in mice and rats.	Fruits of Fructus Schisandrae have been used as medicine for the treatment for insomnia in traditional Chinese medicine. In the present research, the sedative and hypnotic activities of the ethanol fraction of Fructus Schisandrae fruit (SY3) were studied in mice and rats. In the open field test, SY3 (25, 50 and 100 mg/kg) significantly inhibited the motor activity of mice compared to the normal. Results also showed SY3 potentiated pentobarbital-induced sleep by not only increasing the number of falling asleep and prolonging sleeping time but also reducing sleep latency. Furthermore, sleep-wake stages of rats were evaluated by polytrophic recording for 3 h after treatment. The results demonstrated that SY3 at doses of 20, 40 and 80 mg/kg behaved remarkable action on sleep architecture of rats, which contain the increase of total sleeping time, the rate of deep slow wave sleep (SWS) and mean episode duration of deep SWS, and the decrease of the latency of deep SWS. Therefore, these results suggest that the ethanol fraction of Fructus Schisandrae fruit possesses potent sedative and hypnotic activity, which supported its therapeutic use for insomnia.
A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of quetiapine in the treatment of bipolar I and II depression: improvements in quality of life.	Bipolar depression is associated with significant morbidity, high risk of suicide and substantial impairment of health-related quality of life (QOL), which adversely affects family/social relationships and occupational functioning. Depressive symptomatology is the primary determinant of quality of life, and there is a paucity of clinical trial data on how treatments affect quality of life. This 8-week, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled study in 542 patients with bipolar I or II depression used the Short Form of the Quality of Life Enjoyment and Satisfaction Questionnaire to assess the effect of quetiapine monotherapy, 300 or 600 mg/day, on quality of life. Quality of sleep was also measured using the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index. Both doses of quetiapine significantly improved quality of life over baseline values in comparison with placebo, which was evident at first assessment (week 4) and continued up to week 8. The improvement in quality of life was consistent over the majority of the Short Form of the Quality of Life Enjoyment and Satisfaction Questionnaire domains, and was evident in patients classified as responders on the basis of clinical efficacy measures. Quetiapine therapy also effected a significant improvement in quality of sleep compared with placebo. Improved quality of life may enhance patient compliance, and assessment of quality of life should be incorporated into future clinical trials in bipolar depression.
Tramadol in the treatment of neuropathic cancer pain: a double-blind, placebo-controlled study.	To assess the efficacy, safety and impact on quality of life of tramadol in the treatment of neuropathic pain in patients with cancer.
Effects of adjunctive antidepressant therapy with quetiapine on clinical outcome, quality of sleep and daytime motor activity in patients with treatment-resistant depression.	To investigate the effects of antidepressant therapy plus quetiapine on major depression, motor activity, daytime sleepiness and quality of sleep.
A translational, caffeine-induced model of onset insomnia in rats and healthy volunteers.	Insomnia is a common and disabling complaint for which there is a need for improved treatments. Successful drug discovery relies on the use of appropriate animal models to assess likely outcome in the clinic.
The brain H3-receptor as a novel therapeutic target for vigilance and sleep-wake disorders.	Brain histaminergic neurons play a prominent role in arousal and maintenance of wakefulness (W). H(3)-receptors control the activity of histaminergic neurons through presynaptic autoinhibition. The role of H(3)-receptor antagonists/inverse agonists (H(3)R-antagonists) in the potential therapy of vigilance deficiency and sleep-wake disorders were studied by assessing their effects on the mouse cortical EEG and sleep-wake cycle in comparison to modafinil and classical psychostimulants. The H(3)R-antagonists, thioperamide and ciproxifan increased W and cortical EEG fast rhythms and, like modafinil, but unlike amphetamine and caffeine, their waking effects were not accompanied by sleep rebound. Conversely, imetit (H(3)R-agonist) enhanced slow wave sleep and dose-dependently attenuated ciproxifan-induced W, indicating that the effects of both ligands involve H(3)-receptor mechanisms. Additional studies using knockout (KO) mice confirmed the essential role of H(3)-receptors and histamine-mediated transmission in the wake properties of H(3)R-antagonists. Thus ciproxifan produced no increase in W in either histidine-decarboxylase (HDC, histamine-synthesizing enzyme) or H(1)- or H(3)-receptor KO-mice whereas its waking effects persisted in H(2)-receptor KO-mice. These data validate the hypothesis that H(3)R-antagonists, through disinhibition of H(3)-autoreceptors, enhancing synaptic histamine that in turn activates postsynaptic H(1)-receptors promoting W. Interestingly amphetamine and modafinil, despite their potent arousal effects, appear unlikely to depend on histaminergic mechanism as their effects still occurred in HDC KO-mice. The present study thus distinguishes two classes of wake-improving agents: the first acting through non-histaminergic mechanisms and the second acting via histamine and supports brain H(3)-receptors as potentially novel therapeutic targets for vigilance and sleep-wake disorders.
Novel 3-iodo-8-ethoxypyrazolo[5,1-c][1,2,4]benzotriazine 5-oxide as promising lead for design of alpha5-inverse agonist useful tools for therapy of mnemonic damage.	The synthesis and the binding study of new 3-iodiopyrazolo[5,1-c][1,2,4] benzotriazine 5-oxides 8-alkyloxy substituted are reported. The replacement at position 3 with an iodine atom, with respect to substituents capable to form a three centered hydrogen bond and/or to form pi-pi stacking interaction with receptor protein, gave high affinity ligands, independently of the 8-alkyloxy substituent. High-affinity ligands were studied in mice in vivo for their pharmacological effects, considering five potential benzodiazepine actions: anxiolytic-like effects, motor coordination, anticonvulsant action, mouse learning and memory impairment, and ethanol-potentiating action. Compounds 5c and 5'c have an inverse agonist profile and for the first time is evidenced a pro-mnemonic activity. These compounds were evaluated also for their binding at Benzodiazepine site on GABA(A) receptor complex (GABA(A)/BzR complex) subtype to evaluate their subtype selectivity.
A genetic variation in the adenosine A2A receptor gene (ADORA2A) contributes to individual sensitivity to caffeine effects on sleep.	Caffeine is the most widely used stimulant in Western countries. Some people voluntarily reduce caffeine consumption because it impairs the quality of their sleep. Studies in mice revealed that the disruption of sleep after caffeine is mediated by blockade of adenosine A2A receptors. Here we show in humans that (1) habitual caffeine consumption is associated with reduced sleep quality in self-rated caffeine-sensitive individuals, but not in caffeine-insensitive individuals; (2) the distribution of distinct c.1083T>C genotypes of the adenosine A2A receptor gene (ADORA2A) differs between caffeine-sensitive and -insensitive adults; and (3) the ADORA2A c.1083T>C genotype determines how closely the caffeine-induced changes in brain electrical activity during sleep resemble the alterations observed in patients with insomnia. These data demonstrate a role of adenosine A2A receptors for sleep in humans, and suggest that a common variation in ADORA2A contributes to subjective and objective responses to caffeine on sleep.
Nose-to-brain delivery of TS-002, prostaglandin D2 analogue.	This study was conducted to investigate the possibility of performing nose-to-brain delivery of TS-002, which is an analog compound of prostaglandin D2 (PGD2) and thus would be a natural sleep inducer. The absolute bioavailability (BA) and sleep-inducing effect (SIE) following intranasal (IN) administration of TS-002 dry powder to cynomolgus monkeys were evaluated in comparison with intravenous (IV) administration. The SIE was evaluated as the accumulated time of sleeping-posture for 3 h. The brain distribution of TS-002 following IN administration of the dry powder was examined in rats. The absolute bioavailability (BA) in monkeys following IN administration of the dry powder (0.4-1.2 mg/body) was comparatively high (43.4-78.0%). The SIE following IN administration (0.05-0.4 mg/body) showed dose-dependency and its effect at 0.4 mg/body was twice as strong as that for IV administration (P < 0.05). The brain concentrations in rats following IN administration (0.1 mg/kg) were obviously higher than that for IV administration at the same dose. The highest content was observed in the olfactory bulb. These results demonstrated that TS-002 was directly transported from the olfactory region to brain, thereby showing that it may be possible to develop a novel sleep-inducing drug based on nose-to-brain delivery.
Quality differences in postoperative sleep between propofol-remifentanil and sevoflurane anesthesia in infants.	Postoperative behavioral disorders are common in children, but the occurrence in infants is not yet clear. In the present study we focus on postoperative sleep disturbances, which we hypothesized would be more common after sevoflurane anesthesia than propofol-remifentanil anesthesia.
The addition of a small-dose ketamine infusion to tramadol for postoperative analgesia: a double-blinded, placebo-controlled, randomized trial after abdominal surgery.	There are few data on combining ketamine with tramadol for postoperative analgesia in humans. We tested the hypothesis that adding ketamine to tramadol would improve analgesia after major abdominal surgery.
The effect of epidural anesthesia with different concentrations of ropivacaine on sevoflurane requirements.	We evaluated sevoflurane requirements during combined general-epidural anesthesia with different concentration of ropivacaine.
A randomized, double-blind, 8-week crossover study of once-daily controlled-release tramadol versus immediate-release tramadol taken as needed for chronic noncancer pain.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of controlled-release (CR) tramadol and immediate-release (IR) tramadol in patients with moderate or greater intensity chronic noncancer pain.
No change in serum melatonin, or plasma beta-endorphin levels after sevoflurane anesthesia.	To investigate the effect of sevoflurane as single anesthetic on melatonin and beta-endorphin plasma levels during the first 24 hours postoperatively.
Sedative and hypnotic effects of combined administration of metoclopramide and ketamine in chickens.	Metoclopramide is a dopamine receptor antagonist used in animals as both an antiemetic and a gastroprokinetic agent. In chickens, the drug causes central nervous system depression. The authors examined the potential sedative and hypnotic effects of metoclopramide when administered in combination with the anesthetic agent ketamine in 1-3-week-old chicks. Concomitant administration of metoclopramide and ketamine markedly reduced the median effective doses (ED50s) of both drugs for the induction of sedation and sleep in the chicks. The results suggest potential therapeutic applications of the metoclopramide-ketamine combination as a restraining agent in avian species not intended for human consumption.
The EEG effects of THIP (Gaboxadol) on sleep and waking are mediated by the GABA(A)delta-subunit-containing receptors.	THIP (4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisoxazolo-[5,4-c]pyridine-3-ol, Gaboxadol) is a selective gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) agonist, acting in vitro with high potency and efficacy at the extrasynaptic GABA(A)delta-containing receptors. THIP was suggested to be a potential hypnotic to treat insomnia, and it is currently in clinical trial. Here we assessed whether the GABA(A)delta-containing receptors mediate in vivo the effect of THIP on sleep and the sleep electroencephalogram (EEG). We performed EEG recordings in a mouse model deficient in the GABA(A)delta-subunit gene (delta(-/-) mice) and in wild-type littermate controls. THIP (4 and 6 mg/kg intraperitoneally) induced an abnormal EEG pattern, resulting in dramatic changes in the waking and non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep EEG spectra in wild-type mice. Indeed, a massive increase in EEG power lasting 2-3 h occurred in both the frontal and parietal derivation, especially in frequencies below 6 Hz. All effects were more prominent in the frontal EEG. Furthermore, the highest dose of THIP lengthened REM sleep latency and suppressed REM sleep. In contrast, vigilance states and sleep latencies were not affected in delta(-/-) mice. Moreover, only minor changes were observed in the NREM sleep EEG spectrum after THIP injection in the delta-subunit-deficient mice. The present findings do not indicate a sleep-promoting effect of THIP in mice, which is in accordance with a previous report in this species. Moreover, our results in vivo demonstrate that THIP acts preferentially at GABA(A) receptors containing the delta-subunit.
Effect of theophylline on lung function tests, sleep quality, and nighttime SaO2 in children with cystic fibrosis.	The effect of theophylline (T) was studied in 12 children with cystic fibrosis (CF) (seven males and five females) aged 7 to 17 yr (mean, 11.8 +/- 2.8). T or placebo (P) was taken for 10 days in a double-blind, crossover controlled trial. During Nights 9 and 10 of each study period, the subjects slept in a sleep laboratory, where complete polysomnographs were recorded. Patients were subdivided according to T blood levels above or below 10 micrograms/ml: five children had a mean serum T of 11.7 +/- 1.6 micrograms/ml (Group 1), and seven patients had serum T levels of 6.7 +/- 1.5 micrograms/ml (Group 2). There was no difference in pulmonary function between the two periods, but Group 2 had significantly better baseline lung function (p less than 0.01). During sleep while on T, Group 1 had a higher mean SaO2 (93.1 +/- 0.3% T versus 90.7 +/- 0.3% P; p less than 0.0001), less time with a decrease greater than 5% in SaO2 from baseline (43.7 +/- 7.9 min T versus 85.8 +/- 7.9 min P; p less than 0.01), and a lower heart rate (HR), (77.9 +/- 5.1 bpm T versus 86.1 +/- 4.2 bpm P; p less than 0.01). Group 2 did not show differences in these parameters. T significantly disrupted sleep as measured by sleep efficiency and total wake time independently of serum level (p less than 0.01). There was no significant effect of T on the incidence of apnea, hypopnea, or body movements during sleep.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Hypothermic effects of hops are antagonized with the competitive melatonin receptor antagonist luzindole in mice.	Hops (Humulus lupulus, Cannabinaceae) has been used in traditional European medicine as a mild sedative for the treatment of anxiety, nervousness, and insomnia. However, there has been little information available about the underlying sleep inducing mechanism of hops. We have investigated the effects of a hops extract on the rectal body temperature in mice. Hops extract (250 mg kg(-1)) significantly decreased body temperature in male BL6/C57J mice (DeltaT -0.75 +/- 0.07 degrees C) 2 h after oral administration. The effects of the plant extract were comparable with melatonin (50 mg kg(-1); DeltaT -0.66 +/- 0.06 degrees C; 2 h after i.p. injection). The hypothermic effects of melatonin and hops extract were antagonized with the competitive melatonin receptor antagonist luzindole. Thus, our data suggests that the hypothermic--and therefore the sleep-inducing--effects of hops extract are possibly mediated through activation of melatonin receptors.
Adverse effects of opioids on the central nervous systems of palliative care patients.	Opioids, defined as drugs that stimulate opioid receptors, are primarily used in the treatment of moderate to severe pain. They induce central nervous system (CNS) adverse effects which can be divided into three groups. The first group includes effects that lower the level of consciousness-sedation, drowsiness and sleep disturbance. The second group affects the thinking process and the ability to react-cognitive impairment, psychomotor impairment, delirium, hallucinations, dreams and nightmares. The third group is of the direct toxic effects of opioids on neurons and includes myoclonus (perhaps), hyperalgesia and tolerance. This review addresses the incidence, possible mechanisms, and treatment of each of these groups of opioid-induced adverse effects.
Electroencephalographic characteristics of audiogenic seizures induced in metaphit-treated small rodents.	Adult male mice, rats, and guinea pigs were subjected to intense sound stimulation of an electric bell (100 dB, 12 kHz for 60 s) after a single intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of metaphit (1-(1-(3 isothiocyanatophenyl)-cyclohexyl)piperidine) (50 mg/kg). When the animals were tested 24 h after administration of metaphit, audiogenic seizures were observed. None of the control saline-injected animals had convulsions. EEG recordings demonstrated the appearance of paroxysmal activity and spike-wave complexes in the trace from cortical and hippocampal electrodes, with frequency and amplitude increasing with time. Behaviorally, myoclonic jerks of facial muscles, ears, and neck appeared, but no correlation was noted between EEG and the motor phenomena. Auditory stimulation was necessary to elicit the full-blown sequence of seizure responses consisting of wild running followed by clonic and then tonic extension. At the time of seizures, repetitive high-amplitude spikes and waves appeared in the EEG, followed by profound EEG and behavioral depression. None of the animals died during or immediately after seizures. The seizure response to sound stimulation of mice, rats, and guinea pigs was phenomenologically similar, with minor differences in quantitative pattern of convulsive components, which suggests that all three animal species share the common property of extreme susceptibility to audiogenic stimulation caused by metaphit administration.
Treatment of insomnia with two benzodiazepines: a double-blind crossover study.	Twenty-eight patients (12 M, 16 F) with insomnia were treated with nitrazepam 5 mg/d and oxazepam 25 mg/d, each for 11 days, in a double-blind crossover comparison with placebo. Half the patients received nitrazepam in the first drug period, and oxazepam in the second and the other half followed the contrary sequence. Both nitrazepam and oxazepam were found to be effective in inducing sleep and increasing sleep quality. No effects on dreaming or adverse effects were found. Nitrazepam did influence the frequency of awakening, but only in the second drug period. In the first period it reduced self-waking. It is concluded that both nitrazepam and oxazepam were effective in inducing sleep and in improving sleep quality.
Insomnia: zolpidem extended-release for the treatment of sleep induction and sleep maintenance symptoms.	Insomnia impairs daytime functioning or causes clinically significant daytime distress. The consequences of insomnia, if left untreated, may contribute to the risks of developing additional serious conditions, such as psychiatric illness, cardiovascular disease, or metabolic issues. Furthermore, some comorbidities associated with insomnia may be bidirectional in their causality because psychiatric and other medical problems can increase the risk for insomnia. Regardless of the serious consequences of inadequately treated insomnia, clinicians often do not inquire into their patients' sleep habits, and patients, in turn, are not forthcoming with details of their sleep difficulties. The continuing education of physicians and patients with regard to insomnia and currently available therapies for the treatment of insomnia is, therefore, essential. Insomnia may present as either a difficulty falling asleep, difficulty maintaining sleep, or waking too early without being able to return to sleep. Furthermore, these symptoms often change over time in an unpredictable manner. Therefore, when considering a sleep medication, one with efficacy for the treatment of multiple insomnia symptoms is recommended. A modified-release formulation of zolpidem, zolpidem extended-release, has been approved for the treatment of insomnia characterized by both difficulty in falling asleep and maintaining sleep. Here, we review studies supporting the use of zolpidem extended-release in the treatment of sleep-onset and sleep maintenance difficulties.
Effect of basal forebrain neuropeptide Y administration on sleep and spontaneous behavior in freely moving rats.	Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is present both in local neurons as well as in fibers in the basal forebrain (BF), an area that plays an important role in the regulation of cortical activation. In our previous experiments in anaesthetized rats, significant EEG changes were found after NPY injections to BF. EEG delta power increased while power in theta, alpha, and beta range decreased. The aim of the present experiments was to determine whether NPY infusion to BF can modulate sleep and behavior in freely moving rats. In this study, microinjections were made into the BF. Saline was injected to the control side, while either saline or one of two doses of NPY (0.5 microl, 300-500 pmol) to the treated side. EEG as well as behavioral changes were recorded. Behavioral elements after the NPY injections changed in a characteristic fashion in time and three consecutive phases were defined. In phase I (half hour 2), activated behavioral items (moving, rearing, grooming) appeared frequently. In phase II (half hours 3 and 4) activity decreased, while motionless state increased. Reappearance of activity was seen in phase III (half hours 5 and 6). NPY injections caused sleep-wake changes. The three phases described for behavioral changes were also reflected in the sleep data. During phase I, lower NPY dose increased wakefulness and decreased deep sleep. Reduced behavioral activity seen in phase II was partially reflected in the sleep. In this phase, wakefulness tended to increase in the third half hour, while decreased in the 4th half hour. Deep sleep and total slow wave sleep non-significantly decreased in the third and increased in the 4th half hour. In most cases, wakefulness was elevated again during Phase III, while sleep decreased. Length of single sleep-wake epochs did not change after NPY injections. Our results suggest a role for NPY in the integration of sleep and behavioral stages via the BF.
Enhanced neurotoxicity of 3,3'-iminodipropionitrile following carbon tetrachloride pretreatment in the rat.	The consequences of 3,3'-iminodipropionitrile (IDPN) exposure in animals merits attention both because of its unique neurotoxic effects and as a potential model compound of human dyskinetic disorders. An important question that remains to be determined is whether IDPN itself or a putative active metabolite is responsible for the neurotoxic actions of the chemical in vivo. The present work tested the hypothesis that IDPN must be metabolized by the liver to an active metabolite to become neurotoxic. Thus a reduction in IDPN neurotoxicity would be expected when liver function is compromised. Male Long-Evans rats were given ip injections of saline, 100 (IDPN1) or 200 (IDPN2) mg/kg of IDPN for three days. Half of the animals in each IDPN dose group received corn oil po and the other half 1 g/kg of the hepatotoxicant carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) for three days, starting one day before IDPN administration. Body weights were obtained regularly after exposure. Horizontal and vertical motor activity, and acoustic startle response were monitored prior to, and 1,3,9 and 16 weeks after IDPN exposure. An observational rating score was obtained at 1, 3 and 9 weeks. Auditory thresholds for 5- and 40-kHz tones were estimated by reflex modification procedures at 10 weeks. Animals receiving IDPN2 alone displayed the overt behavioral signs characteristic of IDPN intoxication (postural disturbances, head dyskinesias, backward walking, circling, increased motor activity, and decreased startle response). They also showed weight loss, hyperactivity, a transient rearing deficit, decreased startle amplitudes and elevated auditory thresholds for low- and high-frequency tones. None of these symptoms were observed in the animals treated with CCl4 alone, and only a mild transient effect on the observational rating score was shown by the IDPN1 alone animals. In contrast, IDPN1/CCl4 resulted in the same or higher toxicity than the IDPN2 treatment. IDPN2/CCl4 resulted in severe toxicity (38% mortality over a two-week period) and enhanced body weight and behavioral effects compared to IDPN2 alone group. Impairment of xenobiotic biotransformation was confirmed by elevated pentobarbital sleeping time in animals under the same CCl4 dosing regimen. In conclusion, pretreatment with hepatotoxic dosages of CCl4 leads to increased toxicity of IDPN. This suggests that hepatic transformation of the chemical is not required for the manifestation of IDPN-induced neurotoxicity, but instead may be involved in the detoxification of this compound.
The blockade of serotonin uptake into synaptosomes:relationship to an interaction with monoamine oxidase inhibitors.	To test the hypothesis that the hyperpyrexia produced by meperidine and detromethorphan in rabbits pretreated with a monoamine oxidase inhibitor is related to inhibition of neuronal uptake of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)), fluoxetine (Lilly 110140) was studied. This potent and specific 5-HT neuronal uptake blocker was administered to phenelzine-pretreated rabbits and found to produce a lethal hyperpyrexia in doses equal to or greater than 2.5 mg/kg. The order of potency in blocking 5-[14C]HT uptake into synaptosomes prepared from rabbits was: fluoxetine greater than meperidine = dextromethorphan = levorphanol greater than anileridine greater than alphaprodine greater than morphine. Since fluoxetine, meperidine, and dextromethorphan produce hyperpyrexia in phenelzine-pretreated rabbits, whereas anileridine, alphaprodine, and morphine do not, there appears to be some correlation between the hyperpyrexic response and inhibition of 5-HT uptake. The exception is levorphanol, which is not hyperpyrexic despite being equipotent with meperidine and dextromethorphan in inhibiting 5-HT uptake. The ineffectiveness of levorphanol in producing hyperpyrexia may be due to its marked depressant properties, since the addition of another depressant drug (pentobarbital) antagonized the hyperpyrexic effect of meperidine.
Evidence that genetic differences in habituation and GABAergic mechanisms may be related to sensitivity to ethanol and development of ethanol tolerance in mice.	Habituation to a test environment following daily exposure for 5 days was examined in three genetically different strains of mice. C57 animals showed significant habituation to the new environment already on the second day. The habituation of NMRI mice was significant on the third day, whereas CBA mice showed no habituation at all during the experimental period. There was no difference between the animal strains in learning capacity in a passive avoidance test, but CBA mice displayed a significant increase in latency in their performance. When tested for sensitivity to the convulsant actions of GABAergic antagonists, picrotoxin produced seizures at lower doses in CBA as compared to NMRI and C57 mice, whereas there was no difference between the strains in the seizure activity produced by the specific GABA receptor antagonist bicuculline. When the animals were tested for sensitivity to ethanol in a horizontal wire test, ethanol (2 g/kg, IP) produced muscle relaxation in CBA mice whereas the performance of NMRI and C57 was not affected. A large dose of ethanol (4 g/kg, IP) produced a significantly longer sleeping time in CBA mice as compared to NMRI and C57 animals. Ethanol-produced hypothermia was, however, similar in all animals. Environment-dependent development of tolerance to ethanol following daily injections of ethanol for 4 days was examined. C57 mice showed the most rapid development of tolerance towards ethanol's hypnotic actions, whereas CBA mice showed no tolerance to this effect of ethanol. No difference between the strains to the development of tolerance to ethanol's hypothermic effects was observed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Role of cholinergic mechanisms of the ventrolateral preoptico-anterior hypothalamic area in regulation of sleep and wakefulness states in pigeons]	Maintenance of wakefulness is established to accomplish muscarinic (M-) cholinergic receptor activation in the ventrolateral preoptic area of the hypothalamus. The "muscarinic" wakefulness is characterized by enhancement of electroencephalogram (EEG) power spectra in the 0.75-12 Hz band and by increase in brain temperature. Activation of nicotinic (N-) cholinergic receptors of the area produces an increase in the duration of slow wave sleep, EEG power spectra reduction in the 0.75-7 Hz band, a decrease in brain temperature. And its hyperactivation leads to wakefulness, during its episodes the brain temperature decreases. During M- and N-cholinergic receptor blockade, the sleep-wakefulness and thermoregulation changes opposite to their activation were found. It is suggested that M- and N-cholinergic receptors of the ventrolateral preoptic area in pigeons participate in the sleep-wakefulness regulation and this effect is related to influence of this area on GABA-ergic system.
Inhibition of growth hormone-releasing factor suppresses both sleep and growth hormone secretion in the rat.	To study the possible involvement of hypothalamic growth hormone-releasing factor (GRF) in sleep regulation, a competitive GRF-antagonist, the peptide (N-Ac-Tyr1,D-Arg2)-GRF(1-29)-NH2, was intracerebroventricularly injected into rats (0.003, 0.3, and 14 nmol), and the EEG and brain temperature were recorded for 12 h during the light cycle of the day. Growth hormone (GH) concentrations were determined from plasma samples taken at 20-min intervals for 3 h after 14 nmol GRF-antagonist. The onset of non-rapid eye movement sleep (NREMS) was delayed in response to 0.3 and 14 nmol GRF-antagonist, the duration of NREMS was decreased for one or more hours and after 14 nmol EEG slow wave amplitudes were decreased during NREMS in postinjection hour 1. The high dose of GRF-antagonist also suppressed REMS for 4 h, inhibited GH secretion, and elicited a slight biphasic variation in brain temperature. These findings, together with previous observations indicating a sleep-promoting effect for GRF, support the hypothesis that hypothalamic GRF is involved in sleep regulation and might be responsible for the correlation between NREMS and GH secretion reported in various species.
Comparison of the sedative and hypnotic effects of flavonoids, saponins, and polysaccharides extracted from Semen Ziziphus jujube.	Semen Ziziphus jujube (SZJ), the seeds of Ziziphus jujuba Mill. var. spinosa, is a kind of traditional Chinese medicine used for its action on insomnia. In order to analyze the effective component, we investigated and compared the sedative and hypnotic effects of three kinds of compounds, flavonoids, saponins, and polysaccharides. Flavonoids, saponins, and polysaccharides were extracted from SZJ and orally administered to mice separately at 17 g kg(-1) per day for certain days before animal tests. Spontaneous motility and coordinated movement tests were used to observe the effects of the three kinds of compounds on the mouse behavior, and sodium barbital-induced sleeping time of mouse were tested to analyze the effects of the three kinds of compounds on the sleep of mouse. Results show that flavonoids and saponins caused a significant reduction of walking time and coordinated movement ability of mouse, significantly prolonged its sleeping time at 40 mg kg(-1), ip, subthreshold dose and increased the sleeping number of animals at 50 mg kg(-1), ip, superthreshold dose induced by coeliac injection of sodium barbital. Polysaccharides did not show any significance in all animal tests. Comparative analysis showed that saponins had a more effective sedative and hypnotic function than that of flavonoids, polysaccharides did not show a sedative and hypnotic effect.
Interaction of alcoholic extracts of hops with pentobarbital and diazepam in mice.	The interaction of alcoholic extracts of Magnum, Aroma and wild genotype hops with drugs that lower the activity of the central nervous system (CNS) was studied in mice. Hops drying and preparation of extracts were performed according to standard pharmacological procedures for preparing total alcoholic extracts of medicinal plants, i.e. in a ratio of one part dry herbs to two parts of 70% alcohol, with evaporation to dryness so that the extracts no longer contained any alcohol. The mice received four doses intraperitoneally (i.p.) of 0.5% aqueous solutions of the above-mentioned extracts, which were dissolved in warm physiological solution to make up a 0.5% aqueous solution, 24, 16, 4 and 0.5 hours before pentobarbital (40 mg/kg) or diazepam (3 mg/kg) administration. The hypnotic action of pentobarbital and the effect of diazepam on the coordination of movements (rotating rod method) were measured. It was found that hops extracts influenced the action of the investigated drugs, and that the extracts of the Magnum and Aroma genotypes suppressed the hypnotic action of pentobarbital and diazepam. Tert-butanolic extracts also suppressed the action of these two drugs but to a lesser extent, whereas wild hops extracts did not exert any significant effects compared to controls.
Daytime sleepiness and cognitive performance improve in seasonal allergic rhinitis treated with intranasal fluticasone propionate.	Patients with symptomatic allergic rhinitis often complain of daytime drowsiness and impairment in their speed of thinking responses. In this study, we compared subjects with allergic rhinitis treated with intranasal fluticasone propionate or placebo. We measured nasal symptoms, daytime sleepiness, and cognitive performance. Total nasal symptoms (p = 0.002) and nasal congestion (p = 0.003) improved in the intranasal fluticasone propionate group. Concomitantly, daytime sleepiness decreased (p = 0.001) and cognitive performance improved (p = 0.02). The placebo-treated subjects did not show any significant changes. Effective therapy of allergic rhinitis ameliorates the symptoms of daytime sleepiness and decreased cognitive performance.
The adverse effects of antiepileptic drugs in children.	Efficacy of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) are often equivalent, hence selection of an AED is often determined by the adverse effects (AEs). The development of neurocognitive AEs is almost inevitable with use of AEDs, especially in high-risk groups. Teratogenesis with major or minor malformations is of great concern during the first trimester of pregnancy, but an increasing body of information suggests that potential neurocognitive developmental delay may also occur with use of AEDs in the latter part of pregnancy. Decreased bone mineral density has been found in adults and children receiving both enzyme-inducing AEDs and valproate, an enzyme-inhibiting drug. AEDs may influence the lipid profile, body weight, reproductive, hormonal and other endocrine functions, and sleep architecture. There are age-specific AEs related to pharmacokinetic differences that have been highlighted in this review with emphasis on the pediatric population. A classification of AEs using different parameters is also included.
Indole-3-pyruvic acid as a possible hypnotic agent in insomniac subjects.	In a single-blind study six male patients (mean age 39.5 years) with moderate insomnia were treated with placebo for three nights, 100 mg indole-3-pyruvic acid (IPA) for three nights, 200 mg IPA for three nights, 100 mg IPA for two nights and placebo for two nights. Polygraphic recordings were made and total sleep time, sleep efficiency, sleep latency, slow wave sleep latency, rapid eye movement (REM) sleep latency, number of arousals (greater than 1 min), percentage and duration of wakefulness after sleep onset, percentage and duration of wakefulness after sleep onset, percentage and duration of sleep stages 1, 2, 3, 4 and REM were recorded. At the end of 13 days, total sleep time, duration of stage 2 sleep and total non-REM were significantly increased when compared with baseline. Total sleep time and duration of stage 2 and total non-REM sleep on completion were significantly decreased when compared with after 200 mg IPA (night 9). Results suggest an action of IPA on human sleep similar to that of exogenous melatonin and L-tryptophan, thus confirming that IPA could be used to increase serotonin and melatonin turnover.
Exploratory neuropharmacological evaluation of a conformationally constrained thyrotropin-releasing hormone analogue.	A conformationally constrained peptidomimetic derived from the endocrine and neuroactive tripeptide thyrotropin-releasing hormone (pGlu-His-Pro-NH(2)) was synthesized by convenient solid-phase organic chemistry and evaluated as a potential central nervous system agent. While this ethylene-bridged peptide analogue has been reported to lack the hormonal effect of the native peptide, we have shown in animal models that it possesses central nervous system activity characteristic of thyrotropin-releasing hormone. Compared to control, the peptidomimetic showed significant analeptic and antidepressant-like potencies. Moreover, an enhanced selectivity in antidepressant-like effect was measured when compared to that of the native peptide. Immobilized artificial membrane chromatography and in vitro metabolic stability studies also revealed that this constrained peptidomimetic has higher affinity to the blood-brain barrier than the native peptide and is metabolically stable. Consequently, this structure may be used as a template to design centrally selective and metabolically stable thyrotropin-releasing hormone analogues as potential neuropharmaceutical agents.
Tiagabine increases slow-wave sleep in a dose-dependent fashion without affecting traditional efficacy measures in adults with primary insomnia.	This study evaluated dose-response effects of tiagabine on sleep in adults with primary insomnia.
Polygraphic sleep recordings before and after the administration of flunitrazepam.	By means of polygraphic sleep recordings (EEG, EOG, EMG, ECG, EDG, Respirogram, Positogram), neurologic-psychologic investigation and questionnaires on subjective feeling, ten patients aged from 22 to 40 years (mean: 29 years), who suffered from irregular disturbances in falling asleep and in sleeping continuously, were examined over a period of ten consecutives nights. The first investigation night was reserved for adaptation of the patients and could therefore not be evaluated. On the following three evenings placebo (Placebo I) was given, then 2 mg of flunitrazepam for the ensuing three nights and placebo again (Placebo II) for the last three nights. Thus, 90 investigation nights could be evaluated. 1. Latency times until the patients fell asleep and up to the first deep sleep were reduced significantly by the active preparation. Latency times up to the first REM-phase were prolonged. 2. The frequency of nocturnal awakenings was lessened significantly. Thus, disturbances in sleeping continuously disappeared for the duration of the treatment. Duration of wakefulness after having woken during the night decreased considerably. 3. Duration of wakefulness during the total night was reduced considerably, deeper sleep stages, such as D (stage III) and E(stage IV) were prolonged. 4. Duration of the REM-phases was reduced slightly. This reduction was not significant according to the t-test. 5. According to these results, the preparation showed a clear effect. A placebo-effect can be excluded, since the improvements mentioned were not found when placebo was given before administration of the medication and afterwards (Placebo I and II). 6. When comparing our results to those of other authors, who described the effects of various preparations, we found that the substance flunitrazepam showed different effects.
The interaction of barbiturates and analeptics.	The interaction of pentobarbitone sodium with three analeptics viz. micoren, pentylenetetrazol and methedrine was studied in mice. Micoren prolonged pentobarbitone sleeping time. pentylenetetrazol shortened the sleeping time. Methedrine also shortened the sleeping time, but clonic convulsions of mild to severe intensity were noticed 45-60 minutes after the drug injection.
Interleukin 1-receptor antagonist blocks interleukin 1-induced sleep and fever.	The recent purification and characterization of an interleukin 1-receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) has provided an additional means of elucidating the mechanisms involved in the responses initiated by IL-1. Central administration of IL-1 to rabbits results in a characteristic febrile response and in increased non-rapid-eye-movement sleep (NREMS). In this study, rabbits received various doses of IL-1ra (10-1,000 micrograms) or pyrogen-free saline intracerebroventricularly, and sleep-wake activity and brain temperature (Tbr) were determined for the next 24 h. All doses of IL-1ra tested tended to reduce NREMS in the first postinjection hour with little effect on Tbr. When rabbits were pretreated with 100 micrograms IL-1ra and then injected with 10 ng IL-1, the characteristic IL-1-induced febrile and NREMS-promoting effects were completely blocked.
Dex/CRH-test response and sleep in depressed patients and healthy controls with and without vulnerability for affective disorders.	Sleep electroencephalographic (EEG) abnormalities and increased hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activity are the most prominent neurobiological findings in depression and were suggested as potential biomarker for depression. In particular, increased rapid eye movement sleep (REM) density, deficit in slow wave sleep and excessive stress hormone response are associated with an unfavorable long-term outcome of depression. Recent studies indicate that the sleep and endocrine parameters are related to each other. This study investigated the association of sleep structure including a quantitative EEG analysis with the results of the combined dexamethasone (Dex)/corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH)-test in 14 patients with a severe major depression, 21 healthy probands with a positive family history of depression (HRPs) and 12 healthy control subjects without personal and family history for psychiatric disorders. As expected patients with depression showed an overactivity of the HPA axis, disturbed sleep continuity and prolonged latency until slow wave sleep in the first sleep cycle. Differences in microarchitecture of sleep were less prominent and restricted to a higher NonREM sigma power in the HRP group. Dexamethasone suppressed cortisol levels were positively associated with higher NonREM sigma power after merging the three groups. We also observed an inverse association between the ACTH response to the Dex/CRH-test and rapid eye movement sleep (REM) density in HRPs, with suggestive evidence also in patients, but not in controls. This contra-intuitive finding might be a result of the subject selection (unaffected HRPs, severely depressed patients) and the complementarity of the two markers. HRPs and patients with high disease vulnerability, indicated by an elevated REM density, seem to have a lower threshold until an actual disease process affecting the HPA axis translates into depression, and vice versa. To summarize, our findings provide further evidence that the HPA axis is involved in the sleep regulation in depression. These associations, however, are not unidimensional, but dependent on the kind of sleep parameters as well as on the selection of the subjects.
Mirtazapine improves sleep and lowers anxiety and depression in cancer patients: superiority over imipramine.	This study aimed to compare the effectiveness of mirtazapine and imipramine on not only the distressing symptoms of cancer patients such as pain, nausea, vomiting, appetite loss, and sleep disturbances but also depressive and anxiety symptoms.
Synthesis and anticonvulsant activity of 1-acyl-2-pyrrolidinone derivatives.	Several 1-acyl-2-pyrrolidinone derivatives were synthesized as derivatives of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), and their pharmacological activities and stabilities were investigated. The derivatives showed anticonvulsant effect on picrotoxin-induced seizure at a dose of 200 mg/kg. In particular, 1-decanoyl-2-pyrrolidinone (7) and 1-dodecanoyl-2-pyrrolidinone (8) had a high activity. The anticonvulsant activity showed a dose dependency. Some of 1-acyl-2-pyrrolidinone derivatives prolonged sleeping time which was induced by sodium pentobarbital and showed a recovery from disruption of the memory of passive avoidance response, which was induced by an electroconvulsive shock. As shown by the results of the stability study of 1-acetyl-2-pyrrolidinone (1), it was degraded in an acidic buffer and an alkaline buffer although 2-pyrrolidinone was stable. 1-Acyl-2-pyrrolidinone derivatives were degraded in liver and brain homogenates of mouse and rat. They showed a degradation rate in rat plasma. Conversion of 8 to GABA in mouse liver homogenate was demonstrated. These results suggested that the pharmacological activity of 1-acyl-2-pyrrolidinone is probably due to the release of GABA by hydrolysis of derivatives although further work is necessary.
Effects of dextroamphetamine, caffeine and modafinil on psychomotor vigilance test performance after 44 h of continuous wakefulness.	Prolonged sleep loss impairs alertness, vigilance and some higher-order cognitive and affective capacities. Some deficits can be temporarily reversed by stimulant medications including caffeine, dextroamphetamine, and modafinil. To date, only one study has directly compared the effectiveness of these three compounds and specified the doses at which all were equally effective in restoring alertness and vigilance following 64 h of wakefulness. The present study compared the effectiveness of these same three stimulants/doses following a less extreme period of sleep loss (i.e., 44 h). Fifty-three healthy adults received a single dose of modafinil 400 mg (n = 11), dextroamphetamine 20 mg (n = 16), caffeine 600 mg (n = 12), or placebo (n = 14) after 44 h of continuous wakefulness. After 61 h of being awake, participants obtained 12 h of recovery sleep. Psychomotor vigilance was assessed bi-hourly during waking and following recovery sleep. Relative to placebo, all three stimulants were equally effective in restoring psychomotor vigilance test speed and reducing lapses, although the duration of action was shortest for caffeine and longest for dextroamphetamine. At these doses, caffeine was associated with the highest percentage of subjectively reported side-effects while modafinil did not differ significantly from placebo. Subsequent recovery sleep was adversely affected in the dextroamphetamine group, but none of the stimulants had deleterious effects on postrecovery performance. Decisions regarding stimulant selection should be made with consideration of how factors such as duration of action, potential side-effects, and subsequent disruption of recovery sleep may interact with the demands of a particular operational environment.
Benzodiazepine-induced reduction in activity mirrors decrements in cognitive and psychomotor performance.	To assess whether actigraphy is sensitive to benzodiazepine-induced changes in cognitive and psychomotor performance and sleep.
Oscillatory bands, neuronal synchrony and hippocampal function: implications of the effects of prenatal choline supplementation for sleep-dependent memory consolidation.	Choline supplementation of the maternal diet has long-term facilitative effects on spatial and temporal memory processes in the offspring. To further delineate the impact of early nutritional status on brain and behavior, we examined effects of prenatal-choline availability on hippocampal oscillatory frequency bands in 12 month-old male and female rats. Adult offspring of time-pregnant dams that were given a deficient level of choline (DEF=0.0 g/kg), sufficient choline (CON=1.1 g/kg) or supplemental choline (SUP=3.5 g/kg) in their chow during embryonic days (ED) 12-17 were implanted with an electroencephalograph (EEG) electrode in the hippocampal dentate gyrus in combination with an electromyograph (EMG) electrode patch implanted in the nuchal muscle. Five consecutive 8-h recording sessions revealed differential patterns of EEG activity as a function of awake, slow-wave sleep (SWS) and rapid-eye movement (REM) sleep states and prenatal choline status. The main finding was that SUP rats displayed increased power levels of gamma (30-100 Hz) band oscillations during all phases of the sleep/wake cycle. These findings are discussed within the context of a general review of neuronal oscillations (e.g., delta, theta, and gamma bands) and synchronization across multiple brain regions in relation to sleep-dependent memory consolidation in the hippocampus.
Sleep disturbances in patients with schizophrenia : impact and effect of antipsychotics.	Difficulties initiating or maintaining sleep are frequently encountered in patients with schizophrenia. Disturbed sleep can be found in 30-80% of schizophrenic patients, depending on the degree of psychotic symptomatology. Measured by polysomnography, reduced sleep efficiency and total sleep time, as well as increased sleep latency, are found in most patients with schizophrenia and appear to be an important part of the pathophysiology of this disorder. Some studies also reported alterations of stage 2 sleep, slow-wave sleep (SWS) and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep variables, i.e. reduced REM latency and REM density. A number of sleep parameters, such as the amount of SWS and the REM latency, are significantly correlated to clinical variables, including severity of illness, positive symptoms, negative symptoms, outcome, neurocognitive impairment and brain structure.Concerning specific sleep disorders, there is some evidence that schizophrenic patients carry a higher risk of experiencing a sleep-related breathing disorder, especially those demonstrating the known risk factors, including being overweight but also long-term use of antipsychotics. However, it is still unclear whether periodic leg movements in sleep or restless legs syndrome (RLS) are found with a higher or lower prevalence in schizophrenic patients than in healthy controls.There are no consistent effects of first-generation antipsychotics on measures of sleep continuity and sleep structure, including the percentage of sleep stages or sleep and REM latency in healthy controls. In contrast to first-generation antipsychotics, the studied atypical antipsychotics (clozapine, olanzapine, quetiapine, risperidone, ziprasidone and paliperidone) demonstrate a relatively consistent effect on measures of sleep continuity, with an increase in either total sleep time (TST) or sleep efficiency, and individually varying effects on other sleep parameters, such as an increase in REM latency observed for olanzapine, quetiapine and ziprasidone, and an increase in SWS documented for olanzapine and ziprasidone in healthy subjects.The treatment of schizophrenic patients with first-generation antipsychotics is consistently associated with an increase in TST and sleep efficiency, and mostly an increase in REM latency, whereas the influence on specific sleep stages is more variable. On the other hand, withdrawal of such treatment is followed by a change in sleep structure mainly in the opposite direction, indicating a deterioration of sleep quality. On the background of the rather inconsistent effects of first-generation antipsychotics observed in healthy subjects, it appears possible that the high-potency drugs exert their effects on sleep in schizophrenic patients, for the most part, in an indirect way by suppressing stressful psychotic symptomatology. In contrast, the available data concerning second-generation antipsychotics (clozapine, olanzapine, risperidone and paliperidone) demonstrate a relatively consistent effect on measures of sleep continuity in patients and healthy subjects, with an increase in TST and sleep efficiency or a decrease in wakefulness. Additionally, clozapine and olanzapine demonstrate comparable influences on other sleep variables, such as SWS or REM density, in controls and schizophrenic patients. Possibly, the effects of second-generation antipsychotics observed on sleep in healthy subjects and schizophrenic patients might involve the action of these drugs on symptomatology, such as depression, cognitive impairment, and negative and positive symptoms.Specific sleep disorders, such as RLS, sleep-related breathing disorders, night-eating syndrome, somnambulism and rhythm disorders have been described as possible adverse effects of antipsychotics and should be considered in the differential diagnosis of disturbed or unrestful sleep in this population.
The effect of Galantamine on sleep quality in Thai Alzheimer's disease patients.	To study the effect of Galantamine on sleep quality in Thai Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients with or without cerebrovascular disease.
Circadian phase-shifting effects of repeated ramelteon administration in healthy adults.	To assess the ability of repeated daily oral ramelteon to facilitate re-entrainment of human circadian rhythms after an imposed phase advance of the sleep-wake cycle.
Effect of gaboxadol on sleep in adult and elderly patients with primary insomnia: results from two randomized, placebo-controlled, 30-night polysomnography studies.	To evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of gaboxadol in the treatment of adult and elderly patients with primary insomnia.
The non-benzodiazepine hypnotic zolpidem impairs sleep-dependent cortical plasticity.	The effects of hypnotics on sleep-dependent brain plasticity are unknown. We have shown that sleep enhances a canonical model of in vivo cortical plasticity, known as ocular dominance plasticity (ODP). We investigated the effects of 3 different classes of hypnotics on ODP.
Microdialysis elevation of adenosine in the basal forebrain produces vigilance impairments in the rat psychomotor vigilance task.	The inhibitory neuromodulator adenosine has been proposed as a homeostatic sleep factor that acts potently in the basal forebrain (BF) to increase sleepiness. Here 300 microM of adenosine was dialyzed in the BF of rats, and the effect on vigilance was determined in the rat Psychomotor Vigilance Task (rPVT).
Clinical impact of duloxetine treatment on sleep in patients with major depressive disorder.	The objective of this study was to conduct a meta-analysis of the clinical impact of duloxetine treatment on sleep in adults with major depressive disorder. Data were pooled from 11 placebo-controlled, double-blind studies of duloxetine treatment (8-9 weeks acute therapy, modal dose 60 mg/day). Sleep outcome was assessed by the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale-17 (HAMD(17)) sleep items (onset latency, middle awakening, and early awakening) and their sum (insomnia subscale) and by occurrence of sleep-related treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs). Efficacy was measured by HAMD(17) Maier subscale scores. Adult outpatients (mean age: 45.4 years; 65.8% women) were assigned randomly to duloxetine (N=1760) or placebo (N=1159). Duloxetine-treated patients improved more on the HAMD(17) sleep subscale compared with placebo-treated patients (mean=-1.2 vs. -1.1, P< or =0.05). Sleep-related TEAEs that occurred more frequently for patients treated with duloxetine, compared with placebo, were insomnia (8.9 vs. 5.9%, P< or =0.001), middle insomnia (1.4 vs. 0.3%, P=0.001), and hypersomnia (1.0 vs. 0.3%, P< or =0.01). Patients with sleep-related TEAEs demonstrated similar mean improvement in Maier subscale score as patients without sleep-related TEAEs (P=0.223). Compared with placebo, duloxetine treatment was associated with a positive, but negligible, benefit on clinical ratings of insomnia and with more frequent sleep-related TEAEs that did not negatively impact overall efficacy for major depressive disorder.
Hepatoprotective activity of Phyllanthus reticulatus.	Two partially purified organic fractions designated by PR1 and PR2 of the fat free ethanol (95%) extract of aerial parts of Phyllanthus reticulatus were tested for the hepatoprotective activity in rats against CCl(4)-induced liver damage. The rats receiving the fractions showed promising hepatoprotective activity as evident from significant changes of pentobarbital-induced sleeping time, changes in serum levels of sGPT, sGOT, sALP and bilirubin and also from histopathological changes as compared to CCl(4)-intoxicated rats.
Differential responsiveness of the pituitary-thyroid axis to thyrotropin-releasing hormone in mouse lines selected to differ in central nervous system sensitivity to ethanol.	Long-sleep (LS) and short-sleep (SS) mice are genetic lines that differ in central nervous system sensitivity to ethanol. The possible role of TRH in mediating the difference in the thyroid status between these two lines was investigated. An increase in TRH gene expression in the paraventricular nucleus and TRH peptide levels in the hypothalamus between postnatal days 8-14 in both SS and LS mice coincided with increased circulating levels of thyroxine during this critical period of central nervous system development. No significant differences in TRH biosynthesis were observed between LS and SS mice during this time. Exogenous administration of TRH to LS and SS mice on day 8, when endogenous serum thyroxine levels were equivalent, resulted in a greater increase in serum thyroxine in SS mice (150%) than LS mice (51%). The differential response to the TRH stimulation test was also present on day 14 (SS, 43%; LS, 18%). The differential responsiveness of the pituitary-thyroid axis to exogenous TRH paralleled the differential increase in endogenous serum thyroxine observed between day 8 and 14 in these mice. Administration of TRH to day 20 and adult (60 days) LS and SS mice resulted in nearly equivalent (approximately 75%) increases in free thyroxine serum levels, yet the magnitude of thyroxine release was 50% greater in SS mice, due perhaps to between-line differences within the thyroid glands. It is unlikely that dissimilar endogenous levels of TRH account for the intrinsic difference in the thyroid status in LS and SS mice. Instead, the increased pituitary-thyroid responsiveness to TRH in SS mice during the second postnatal week may translate into increased functional capacity of the thyroid gland in adult SS relative to LS mice.
Patterns of circadian activity rhythms and their relationships with fatigue and anxiety/depression in women treated with breast cancer adjuvant chemotherapy.	The purpose of this study was to examine patterns of circadian activity rhythms and their relationship with fatigue, anxiety/depression, and demographic/medical variables in women receiving breast cancer adjuvant therapy treatments (Tx) at three times within a randomized clinical trial (RCT) designed to improve sleep and modify fatigue.
Interaction of doxapram and pentobarbital in mice.	We found a statistically significant increase in duration of pentobarbital-induced narcosis in doxapram-treated mice. The influence of doxapram (a respiratory stimulant) pretreatment on pentobarbital metabolism in mice was assessed by measurements of sleeping times, hypothermia, LD50 values, hepatic microsomal metabolism and relative plasma and brain levels of pentobarbital. When doxapram was given intraperitoneally 60 min. prior to administration of pentobarbital, doxapram potentiated pentobarbital-induced narcosis in a dose- and time-dependent manner, but had no effect on onset time. Doxapram potentiated hypothermia, increased acute toxicity, and prolonged the pentobarbital half-life in brain and plasma, but measurement of the concentration of pentobarbital in the brain and plasma immediately upon recovery from narcosis showed that there were no differences in any of the groups examined. Also, brain-to-plasma ratios of pentobarbital did not differ between the control and doxapram-treated groups. Doxapram competitively inhibited the hepatic metabolism of pentobarbital in 9000 x g supernatant incubation mixtures. The results obtained from these experiments indicate that inhibition of drug-metabolizing enzymes by doxapram may account for its enhancement of the duration of pentobarbital-induced narcosis.
Sleep quality in children with asthma treated with theophylline or cromolyn sodium.	The effect of theophylline and cromolyn sodium on sleep was studied in 10 children with asthma who were 10 to 17 years of age (mean 13.5 +/- 2.4 years). Theophylline or cromolyn sodium was taken for 14 days in a double-blind, crossover, placebo-controlled trial. Theophylline blood levels before sleep were 10.2 +/- 4 micrograms/ml during the theophylline period. There was no difference in pulmonary function between the two periods. Theophylline did not disrupt sleep as measured by sleep latency, total sleep time, sleep efficiency, movement time, microarousals, and arousals. Apneic episodes (greater than or equal to 10 seconds) were of central origin and less frequent during the theophylline period (p less than 0.05). Arterial oxygen desaturation (greater than 5% decrease from baseline saturation when awake) was less frequent during the theophylline treatment (p less than 0.05). We conclude that theophylline treatment of the children's asthma did not disrupt sleep and appeared to have a protective effect in regard to apnea, hypopnea, and arterial oxygen saturation.
Ayurvedic processed seeds of nux-vomica: neuropharmacological and chemical evaluation.	The effect of detoxification on Strychnos nux-vomica seeds by traditional processing with aloe and ginger juices (B), by frying in cow ghee (C), and by boiling in cow milk (D) was investigated. The ethanolic extracts of these samples were subjected to spontaneous motor activity (SMA), pentobarbitone-induced hypnosis, PTZ induced convulsions, diazepam-assisted protection, and morphine-induced catalepsy. All samples reduced SMA and inhibited catalepsy. The seeds processed in milk (D) showed the lowest strychnine content in the cotyledons, exhibited marked inhibition of PTZ induced convulsions and maximal potentiation of hypnosis, and were the safest (LD(50)).
Modafinil and -hydroxybutyrate have sleep state-specific pharmacological actions on hypocretin-1 physiology in a primate model of human sleep.	Hypocretin-1 is a hypothalamic neuropeptide that is important in the regulation of wake and the lack of which results in the sleep disorder narcolepsy. Using a monkey that has consolidated wake akin to humans, we examined pharmacological manipulation of sleep and wake and its effects on hypocretin physiology. Monkeys were given the sleep-inducing -hydroxybutyrate (GHB) and the wake-inducing modafinil both in the morning and in the evening. Cerebrospinal fluid hypocretin-1 concentrations changed significantly in response to the drugs only when accompanied by a behavioral change (GHB-induced sleep in the morning or modafinil-induced wake in the evening). We also found that there was a large (180-fold) interindividual variation in GHB pharmacokinetics that explains variability in sleep induction in response to the drug. Our data indicate that the neurochemical concomitants of sleep and wake are capable of changing the physiological output of hypocretin neurons. Sleep independent of circadian timing is capable of decreasing cerebrospinal fluid hypocretin-1 concentrations. Furthermore, hypocretin neurons do not seem to respond to an 'effort' to remain awake, but rather keep track of time spent awake as a wake-promoting counterbalance to extended wakefulness.
Macrophages produce somnogenic and pyrogenic muramyl peptides during digestion of staphylococci.	Muramyl peptides have a variety of biological effects in mammals, including enhancement of the immune response, sleep, and body temperature. Although mammals lack biosynthetic pathways for muramyl peptides, they are found in mammals and are well known as components of bacterial cell walls. This suggests that phagocytic mammalian cells digest bacterial cell walls and produce biologically active muramyl peptides. Staphylococcal cell walls were radioactively labeled during growth of the bacteria. During the digestion of these radiolabeled bacteria, murine bone marrow macrophages produced low-molecular-weight substances that coeluted chromatographically with the radioactive cell wall marker. Further separation of these substances using reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography resulted in the isolation of substances with high specific biological activity. Intracerebroventricular injection of rabbits with these substances induced an increase in slow-wave sleep and body temperature and a suppression of rapid-eye-movement sleep. The characteristics of the biological responses and the chromatographic behavior of the active components are consistent with those of muramyl peptides. The ability of macrophages to tailor muramyl peptides from peptidoglycan may provide an amplification step for the immune response. Muramyl peptides released by macrophages may also act as mediators for various facets of the acute phase response elicited by bacterial infections such as fever and sleep.
Dose response effects of zolpidem in normal geriatric subjects.	The dose-related hypnotic effects and effects on memory, performance, and daytime alertness of zolpidem 5, 10, 15, and 20 mg were compared with those of placebo in 30 elderly non-insomniac volunteers in a randomized, placebo-controlled, three-period crossover study. Subjects were randomized into two groups and received either placebo, zolpidem 5 mg, or zolpidem 15 mg or placebo, zolpidem 10 mg, or zolpidem 20 mg for 2 consecutive nights followed by 1 night of placebo during the same 3 nights of 3 consecutive weeks. Polysomnographic results showed statistically significant decreases in sleep latency and increases in sleep efficiency at all doses. Subjective reports also showed improved sleep latency, total sleep time, and sleep quality. REM percent was slightly decreased at doses of 10 and 20 mg. No consistent effects on memory or performance were observed, and the Multiple Sleep Latency Test showed no effects on daytime sleepines. There was no objective evidence of rebound insomnia upon drug discontinuation.
Gluco- and antimineralocorticoid effects on human sleep: a role of central corticosteroid receptors.	Cortisol modulates brain functions in humans. This principal endogenous glucocorticoid in humans decreases rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep and increases slow-wave sleep (SWS). Because cortisol exerts its effect on brain functions via mineralocorticoid receptors (MR) and glucocorticoid receptors (GR), we were interested in which type of corticosteroid receptor mediates these steroid effects on sleep. Healthy men were tested in two double-blind experiments. In experiment I (n = 8), the subject's sleep was tested during four nights: 1) after pretreatment with dexamethasone (Dex, 4 mg/day) for 4 or 6 days and after additional infusion of placebo or cortisol (10 mg/h) during the experimental night, 2) after pretreatment with placebo for 4 or 6 days and after infusion of placebo or cortisol (10 mg/h) during the experimental night. In experiment II, subjects (n = 10) slept after intravenous administration of potassium canrenoate (200 mg, at 0800 and 1700 h before experimental nights) or placebo. Cortisol infusion moderately increased the percentage of SWS (P less than 0.05) and markedly decreased REM sleep (P less than 0.01); influence of cortisol on SWS did not depend on pretreatment with Dex. Dex reduced both SWS and REM sleep (P less than 0.05). Canrenoate markedly diminished SWS (P less than 0.01) but left REM sleep unaffected. The results suggest that corticosteroid-induced changes in SWS are mediated via MR-like central receptors in humans, whereas changes in REM sleep involve GR.
Activation of 5-HT3 receptors leads to altered responses 6 months after MDMA treatment.	The recreational drug "Ecstasy" [3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA)] has a well-characterised neurotoxic effect on the 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) neurons in animals. Despite intensive studies, the long-term functional consequencies of the 5-HT neurodegeneration remains elusive. The aim of this study was to investigate whether any alteration of 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 (5-HT(3)) receptor functions on the sleep-wake cycle, motor activity, and quantitative EEG could be detected 6 months after a single dose of 15 mg/kg of MDMA. The selective 5-HT(3) receptor agonist m-chlorophenylbiguanide (mCPBG; 1 mg/kg, i.p.) or vehicle was administered to freely moving rats pre-treated with MDMA (15 mg/kg, i.p.) or vehicle 6 months earlier. Polysomnographic and motor activity recordings were performed. Active wake (AW), passive wake (PW), light slow wave sleep (SWS-1), deep slow wave sleep (SWS-2), and paradoxical sleep were classified. In addition, EEG power spectra were calculated for the second hour after mCPBG treatment for each stage. AW increased and SWS-1 decreased in the second hour after mCPBG treatment in control animals. mCPBG caused significant changes in the EEG power in states with cortical activation (AW, PW, paradoxical sleep). In addition, mCPBG had a biphasic effect on hippocampal theta power in AW with a decrease in 7 Hz and a stage-selective increase in the upper range (8-9 Hz). Effects of mCPBG on the time spent in AW and SWS-1 were eliminated or reduced in MDMA-treated animals. In addition, mCPBG did not increase the upper theta power of AW in rats pre-treated with MDMA. These data suggest long-term changes in 5-HT(3) receptor function after MDMA.
Sleep debt and depression in female college students.	The objective of the study was to evaluate relationships between sleep habits and depressive symptoms. Pilot study data were collected about sleep schedules, related factors and depression in female college students to find whether their sleep schedules correlate with affective symptoms. In the subsequent main study, similar information was collected under more controlled conditions. Depression was measured using the CES-D (Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale) and HAM-D-3 (modified Hamilton Depression Rating Scale). Response rates were 31.3% of eligible students for the pilot survey and 71.6% for the main study. Both studies showed that about 20% of students reported weekday sleep debts of greater than 2 h and about 28% reported significantly greater sleep debt and had significantly higher depression scores (P<0.0001) than other students. Melancholic symptoms indicated by high CES-D scores (>24), were observed in 24% of students. Sleep problems explained 13% of the variance for both the CESD scale and the HAM-D-3 scale. Among female college students, those who report a sleep debt of at least 2 h or significant daytime sleepiness have a higher risk of reporting melancholic symptoms than others.
A 12-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study evaluating the effect of eszopiclone 2 mg on sleep/wake function in older adults with primary and comorbid insomnia.	Longer-term pharmacologic studies for insomnia in older individuals are sparse.
Sleep in diabetic rats: effects of interleukin 1.	Previous observations indicate that both interleukin 1 beta (IL-1 beta) and insulin are involved in sleep regulation. IL-1 beta has been reported to stimulate insulin secretion, suggesting that some of the effects of IL-1 beta are mediated by insulin. The purpose of the current experiments was to study the possible role of endogenous insulin in physiological sleep regulation and in the hypnogenic effects of exogenously administered IL-1 beta. Isotonic saline or IL-1 beta (2.5 ng) was intracerebroventricularly injected into normal and streptozocin-diabetic rats at dark onset, and sleep-wake activity and brain temperature were recorded for 24 h. Blood samples were collected every 20 min during the first hour postinjection for plasma insulin measurement. In diabetic rats, rapid-eye-movement (REM) and non-REM sleep were significantly decreased during the second part of the light period on the baseline day. IL-1 beta elicited a biphasic sleep response in both normal and diabetic rats. This initial increase in non-REM sleep during the first 4 h postinjection was followed by significant sleep suppression in both groups. Brain temperature was not affected in either group. Plasma insulin concentration decreased in response to IL-1 beta in normal rats, whereas insulin was below the level of detection in the diabetic rats. These results indicate that, although sleep is disturbed in diabetic rats, pancreatic insulin might not have a decisive role in the regulation of sleep in rats, and it does not mediate the effects of IL-1 beta on sleep-wake activity.
Midlatency auditory-evoked responses: effect of scopolamine in the cat and implications for brain stem cholinergic mechanisms.	The objective of this study has been to define the role of cholinergic mechanisms in the generation of "wave A," a middle latency auditory-evoked potential recorded as a positivity with a 20-25 ms peak latency from the vertex of conscious cats. Wave A and its generator system have particular significance as an experimental model of the human middle latency component "P1." Both the feline wave A and the human P1 are characterized by a long recovery cycle, disappearance during slow wave sleep, and reappearance during rapid eye movement (REM) sleep and during wakefulness. The orchestration of several phenomena of REM sleep are known to involve muscarinic cholinergic mechanisms in the brain stem. Therefore, middle latency auditory-evoked potentials were studied in awake cats before and after injection of a cholinergic antagonist, scopolamine. Wave A and the successive negative potential were abolished by scopolamine in a dose-dependent fashion. This effect occurred within 5-15 min and was spontaneously reversible within a few hours. Although individual subjects were differentially susceptible to lower doses of the drug, all six subjects in this study demonstrated a well-defined statistically significant response at higher doses of the drug. In addition, careful parametric baseline studies were performed in each cat to strengthen the evidentiary linkage between wave A as recorded from the vertex in these experiments and previous studies describing the origin and trajectory of wave A in the brainstem reticular formation and several regions of thalamus, including the intralaminar nuclei. Thus, we conclude that the production of wave A depends substantially on the postsynaptic activation of muscarinic cholinergic receptors whose cells of origin lie within the brainstem reticular formation.
Correction of non-24-hour sleep/wake cycle by melatonin in a blind retarded boy.	A 9-year-old, blind boy with severe mental retardation with a chronic sleep/wake disturbance had a circadian rhythm of 24.75 hours and an internal desynchronization of the endogenous rhythms. Treatment with oral melatonin given at 6 PM induced a regular sleep/wake pattern. Melatonin, in this patient, convincingly entrained the endogenous rhythm to the appropriate chronological 24-hour day.
Endogenous opiates modulate the postapnea ventilatory response in the obstructive sleep apnea syndrome.	Defense of ventilatory homeostasis against recurrent hypercapnia, hypoxia, and acidosis resulting from apnea in obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) is dependent on compensatory mechanisms operative between episodes of airway obstruction. This investigation was designed to examine whether endogenous opiate activity modulates the compensatory ventilatory response to apnea in OSAS. Polysomnography and quantitative measurement of tidal volume was performed in 12 patients with moderate to severe OSAS during a morning nap study before and after intravenous administration of 10 mg of naloxone. Apnea index was not significantly altered. There was a small but significant shortening of apneas (postnaloxone apnea duration, 91.2% of prenaloxone; p = 0.002 by ANOVA). Tidal volume of the first postapnea breath and minute ventilation extrapolated from the first two postapnea breaths, but not frequency, increased significantly after naloxone (postnaloxone first breath volume, 112.7% of prenaloxone value [p = 0.03], with a similar increase for minute ventilation, 115.1% [p = 0.007]). The volume of the first postapnea breath was correlated with the duration of the previous apnea, both before (r = 0.59, p = 0.0001) and after naloxone. Despite this, analysis of covariance with apnea duration as the covariate confirmed a significant independent increase in postapnea breath volume after naloxone (p = 0.001). Naloxone also altered sleep architecture, increasing percent time awake during the study period (prenaloxone, 36.3 +/- 15.6%; postnaloxone, 56.7 +/- 22.4%; p = 0.0003) and decreasing total sleep time and percent time in Stage 1. Furthermore, naloxone increased continuity of awake periods (mean length of awake periods increased from 27.0 +/- 8.4 to 66.0 +/- 66.6 s after naloxone, p = 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effects of olfactory stimulation on the sleep time induced by pentobarbital administration in mice.	The effect on the pentobarbital sleep time by olfactory stimulation with various odorants was investigated using mice to appraise the physiological or psychological significance of olfactory information. The sleep time was determined as the time elapsed between intraperitoneal pentobarbital administration and the first time that the animal was able to spontaneously right itself. The sleep time was affected by inhalation of some odorants compared to pure air controls, but not by others. The sleep time was prolonged by terpinyl acetate and phenethyl alcohol, and was shortened by lemon oil and jasmin oil. However, neither potentiation nor attenuation of pentobarbital action by odorant inhalation was observed when using anosmic mice produced by intranasal zinc sulphate treatment. In conclusion, olfactory stimulation associated with odorant inhalation influences the pentobarbital sleep time, suggesting that olfactory information may have a more potent influence on the physiological and psychological status than has previously been thought.
Somnogenic activity of pseudomurein in rabbits.	Pseudomurein is a major cell wall component of some archaebacteria that chemically differs from but morphologically, functionally, and structurally resembles eubacterial peptidoglycan. Eubacterial cell wall components, e.g., peptidoglycan, induce changes in sleep and body temperature. We now report that intravenous injections of rabbits with a suspension of pseudomurein from Methanobacterium thermoautotrophicum also induce similar central nervous system effects.
Effects of homeopathic medicines on polysomnographic sleep of young adults with histories of coffee-related insomnia.	Homeopathy, a common form of alternative medicine worldwide, relies on subjective patient reports for diagnosis and treatment. Polysomnography offers a modern methodology for evaluating the objective effects of taking homeopathic remedies that clinicians claim exert effects on sleep quality in susceptible individuals. Animal studies have previously shown changes in non rapid eye movement sleep with certain homeopathic remedies.
Effects of intraventricularly administered polyamines spermidine and spermine on sleep-wakefulness cycles in rats.	Freely moving rats with chronically implanted electrodes were used and the electroencephalogram (EEG) from the occipital cortex and the dorsal hippocampus, the electromyogram (EMG) and the electrooculogram (EOG) were simultaneously recorded. The REM (rapid eye movement) sleep stage was significantly shortened without a marked change of the Non-REM sleep from the 24th to the 32nd hr following injection of 40 microgram of SPD. The waking stage significantly increased, and the Non-REM sleep and REM sleep markedly decreased immediately after the injection of 40 microgram of SPM to the 8th, and from the 24th to the 32nd hr. The amount of total sleep significantly shortened from the 72nd to the 80th hr following injection of 40 microgram of SPD. The administration of 40 microgram of SPM significantly reduced the amount of total sleep in every period measured  for 8 hr. Marked change was observed from the 24th to the 32nd hr following injection of 100 microgram of PUT, and Non-REM sleep and total sleep produced a significant decrease. These results show that the intraventricular administration of polyamines including PUT inhibits the amount of normal sleep.
Isoflavones decrease insomnia in postmenopause.	Most postmenopausal women have insomnia. Some of these women also have respiratory sleep disorders. Recent reports have documented that the phytohormones, isoflavones, are capable of reducing the symptoms of climacterium. The purpose of this investigation was to examine subjective and objective sleep parameters and to measure changes in these parameters during treatment with isoflavones in a controlled, double-blinded study in postmenopausal women with insomnia.
Correlations among insomnia symptoms, sleep medication use and depressive symptoms.	To elucidate the factors associated with insomnia symptoms and the use of sleep medication, and the correlations among insomnia symptoms, sleep medication use and depressive symptoms in the general population.
Contribution of sedative-hypnotic agents to delirium via modulation of the sleep pathway.	To review the mechanisms of sedative-hypnotic action with respect to the risk of delirium imparted by drugs that act on -amino-butyric-acid type A receptors or (2) adrenoceptors.
Evaluation of subjective efficacy and safety of ramelteon in Japanese subjects with chronic insomnia.	To assess patient-reported efficacy and safety of ramelteon in Japanese patients with chronic insomnia.
Pimavanserin tartrate, a 5-HT(2A) receptor inverse agonist, increases slow wave sleep as measured by polysomnography in healthy adult volunteers.	Determine the effects of pimavanserin tartrate [ACP-103; N-(4-flurophenylmethyl)-N-(1-methylpiperidin-4-yl)-N'-(4-(2-methylpropyloxy)phenylmethyl)carbamide], a selective serotonin 5-HT(2A) receptor inverse agonist, on slow wave sleep (SWS), other sleep parameters, and attention/vigilance.
Changes in the sleep electroencephalogram (EEG) during male to female transgender therapy.	Steroids, including estrogens, participate in sleep regulation. For example estrogen replacement therapy improved sleep quality in postmenopausal women. Patients, who undergo a cross-gender hormone therapy, receive high doses of estrogens. The effects of this treatment on sleep are unknown. To clarify this issue, we examined seven male to female transsexual patients (age range 31-44 years, meanSD 35.94.2 years). The patients spent two nights on 2 separate occasions in our sleep laboratory. The first night of each session served for adaptation to laboratory conditions. In the second night sleep electroencephalogram [EEG] was recorded from 2300h to 0700h. The first examination was performed before and the second about 3 months after initiation of cross-gender hormone therapy with a dose of 80-100mg estrogen applied every 2 weeks. Additionally patients were treated with a starting dose of the anti-androgen cyproteronacetate of 100mg/day and after about 6 weeks with a maintenance therapy of 50mg/d in order to suppress androgenic effects. Statistical analysis was performed with the Wilcoxon rank test. Under this estrogen therapy we found a significant increase in stage 1 sleep during the whole night (at baseline [b]: 33.299.94min; treatment [t]: 51.5724.26min; p<0.05) Beta activity in nonREM sleep was significantly increased (p=0.02) during hormone therapy compared to before treatment. Other sleep EEG parameters showed no significant changes. Administration of estrogen and anti-androgens in male to female transsexual patients had only a small influence on sleep EEG, with an increase in the duration of shallow sleep.
Long-term safety and efficacy of ramelteon in Japanese patients with chronic insomnia.	To evaluate the safety of ramelteon, a highly selective MT/MT melatonin receptor agonist, during 24 weeks' treatment of Japanese patients with chronic insomnia.
The role of pseudoephedrine on daytime somnolence in patients suffering from perennial allergic rhinitis (PAR).	Allergic rhinitis is one of several inflammatory diseases affecting the nasal mucosa. Cellular inflammation of nasal mucosa is a hallmark of this disease and is characterized by the accumulation of eosinophils and the release of various chemical messengers such as chemokines, cytokines, and histamine. This inflammation of the nose leads to nasal congestion and a reduction in sleep quality, resulting in daytime somnolence.
Twelve months of nightly zolpidem does not lead to dose escalation: a prospective placebo-controlled study.	To assess hypnotic self-administration and likelihood of dose escalation over 12 months of nightly use of zolpidem versus placebo in primary insomniacs.
A double-blind, placebo-controlled investigation of the effects of Passiflora incarnata (passionflower) herbal tea on subjective sleep quality.	Passiflora incarnata is a traditional herbal sedative, anxiolytic and a popular sleep aid used for the treatment of sleep disturbance. Several controlled experiments have demonstrated enhanced sleep in laboratory animals, but clinical trials in humans are lacking. The aim of the present study was to investigate the efficacy of Passiflora incarnata herbal tea on human sleep, as measured using sleep diaries validated by polysomnography (PSG). This study featured a double-blind, placebo-controlled, repeated-measures design with a counterbalanced order of treatments (passionflower vs placebo tea), separated by a 1week 'washout' period. Forty-one participants (18-35 years) were exposed to each treatment for a week, whereby they consumed a cup of the tea and filled out a sleep diary for 7days, and completed Spielberger's state-trait anxiety inventory on the seventh morning. Ten participants also underwent overnight PSG on the last night of each treatment period. Of six sleep-diary measures analysed, sleep quality showed a significantly better rating for passionflower compared with placebo (t(40)=2.70, p<0.01). These initial findings suggest that the consumption of a low dose of Passiflora incarnata, in the form of tea, yields short-term subjective sleep benefits for healthy adults with mild fluctuations in sleep quality.
Cerebral microglia mediate sleep/wake and neuroinflammatory effects of methamphetamine.	Methamphetamine and modafinil exert their wake-promoting effects by elevating monoaminergic tone. The severity of hypersomnolence that occurs subsequent to induced wakefulness differs between these two agents. Microglia detects and modulates CNS reactions to agents such as D-methamphetamine that induce cellular stress. We therefore hypothesized that changes in the sleep/wake cycle that occur subsequent to administration of D-methamphetamine are modulated by cerebral microglia. In CD11b-herpes thymidine kinase transgenic mice (CD11b-TK(mt-30)), activation of the inducible transgene by intracerebroventricular (icv) ganciclovir results in toxicity to CD11b-positive cells (i.e. microglia), thereby reducing cerebral microglial cell counts. CD11b-TK(mt-30)and wild type mice were subjected to chronic icv ganciclovir or vehicle administration with subcutaneous mini-osmotic pumps. D-methamphetamine (1 and 2 mg/kg), modafinil (30 and 100 mg/kg) and vehicle were administered intraperitoneally to these animals. In CD11b-TK(mt-30) mice, but not wild type, icv infusion of ganciclovir reduced the duration of wake produced by D-methamphetamine at 2 mg/kg by nearly 1h. Nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity, studied ex vivo, and NOS expression were elevated in CD11b-positive cerebral microglia from wild type mice acutely exposed to d-methamphetamine. Additionally, CD11b-positive microglia, but not other cerebral cell populations, exhibited changes in sleep-regulatory cytokine expression in response to d-METH. Finally, CD11b-positive microglia exposed to d-methamphetamine in vitro exhibited increased NOS activity relative to pharmacologically-nave cells. CD11b-positive microglia from the brains of neuronal NOS (nNOS)-knockout mice failed to exhibit this effect. We propose that the effects of D-METH on sleep/wake cycles are mediated in part by actions on microglia, including possibly nNOS activity and cytokine synthesis.
Involvement of GABAergic non-benzodiazepine sites in the anxiolytic-like and sedative effects of the flavonoid baicalein in mice.	Baicalein (BA), one of the main flavonoids obtained from the Chinese medicinal herb Scutellaria baicalensis, usually exerts several pharmacological effects. In the central nervous system (CNS), BA exerts a protective effect on neurons against several neuronal insults among other effects, but it is not clear if this effect is due to its metabolite, baicalin. The purpose of the present study was to assess the anxiolytic-like and related properties of BA following its central administration (i.c.v.) in mice. BA (0.02, 0.2pmol) exerted an anxiolytic-like effect at low doses, increasing the time spent in open arms and the head-dipping whereas reducing the stretched-attend postures in the elevated plus-maze. BA also increased the duration of ether-induced sleep without affecting the pentylenetetrazol (PTZ)-induced convulsions. In addition, pretreatment with flumazenil (FMZ), PTZ, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS), and dl-p-chlorophenilalanine ethyl ester (PCPA) were conducted in order to investigate its mechanism of action. PTZ and DHEAS, but not FMZ or PCPA, antagonized the BA's anxiolytic-like effect. Taken together our results showed that BA, when directly injected into the CNS, promotes anxiolytic-like and sedative effects, pharmacological activities dependent on GABAergic non-benzodiazepine sites but not on the 5-HT system.
Behavioral and pharmacological assessment of a potential new mouse model for mania.	Bipolar disorder (BPD) is a devastating long-term disease for which a significant symptom is mania. Rodent models for mania include psychostimulant-induced hyperactivity and single gene alterations, such as in the Clock or DAT genes, but there is still a pressing need for additional models. Recently, our lab isolated a line of mice, termed Madison (MSN), that exhibit behavioral characteristics that may be analogous to symptoms of mania. In this study we quantified possible traits for mania and tested the response to common anti-BPD drugs in altering the behavioral profiles observed in this strain. Relative to other mouse lines, MSN mice showed significant elevations of in-cage hyperactivity levels, significant decreases in daytime sleep, and significant increases in time swimming in the forced swim test. In terms of sexual behavior, the MSN mice showed significantly higher number of mounts and a trend toward higher time mounting. In separate studies, olanzapine and lithium (or respective controls) were administered to MSN mice for at least 2weeks and response to treatments was evaluated. Olanzapine (1mg/kg/day) significantly decreased in-cage hyperactivity and significantly increased time sleeping. Lithium (0.2-0.4% in food) significantly decreased in-cage hyperactivity. Given the behavioral phenotypes and the response to anti-BPD treatments, we propose that MSN mice may provide a possible new model for understanding the neural and genetic basis of phenotypes related to mania and for developing pharmaceutical treatments.
Eight weeks of citicoline treatment does not perturb sleep/wake cycles in cocaine-dependent adults.	Citicoline (cytidine-5'-diphosphate) is a mononucleotide composed of ribose, cytosine, pyrophosphate, and choline, and is involved in the biosynthesis of the structural phosopholipids of cell membranes. Treatment with citicoline, improves memory in patients with dementia, and reduces damage to the brain after traumatic brain injury or stroke. Recent research has been conducted to assess whether citicoline is an effective treatment for cocaine dependence. In cocaine-dependent individuals, withdrawal from cocaine is associated with disturbed sleep, which may contribute to the high rate of relapse to cocaine use. Therefore, it is important to know the impact of citicoline on the sleep/wake cycle in these individuals in order to rate its overall efficacy.
Uridine function in the central nervous system.	In the adult nervous system, the major source of nucleotide synthesis is the salvage pathway. Uridine is the major form of pyrimidine nucleosides taken up by the brain. Uridine is phosphorylated to nucleotides, which are used for DNA and RNA synthesis as well as for the synthesis of membrane constituents and glycosylation. Uridine nucleotides and UDP-sugars may be released from neuronal and glial cells. Plasmamembrane receptors of 7 transmembrane domains have been identified that recognize UTP, UDP, and UDP-sugar conjugates. These receptors are called P2Y2 and P2Y4, P2Y6, and P2Y14 receptors, respectively. In addition, binding sites for uridine itself have also been suggested. Furthermore, uridine administration had sleep-promoting and anti-epileptic actions, improved memory function and affected neuronal plasticity. Information only starts to be accumulating on potential mechanisms of these uridine actions. Some data are available on the topographical distribution of pyrimidine receptors and binding sites in the brain, however, their exact role in neuronal functions is not established yet. There is also a scarcity of data regarding the brain distribution of other components of the pyrimidine metabolism although site specific functions exerted by their receptors might require different metabolic support. Despite the gaps in our knowledge on the neuronal functions of pyrimidine nucleosides, their therapeutic utilization is appealing. They have been suggested for the treatment of epileptic and neurodegenerative diseases as neuroprotective agents. In addition, the development of traditional drugs acting specifically on pyrimidine receptor subtypes is also promising as a new direction to treat neurological disorders.
The role of adenosine in the regulation of sleep.	This paper presents an overview of the current knowledge about the role of adenosine in the sleep-wake regulation with a focus on adenosine in the central nervous system, regulation of adenosine levels, adenosine receptors, and manipulations of the adenosine system by the use of pharmacological and molecular biological tools. The endogenous somnogen prostaglandin (PG) D(2) increases the extracellular level of adenosine under the subarachnoid space of the basal forebrain and promotes physiological sleep. Adenosine is neither stored nor released as a classical neurotransmitter and is thought to be formed inside cells or on their surface, mostly by breakdown of adenine nucleotides. The extracellular concentration of adenosine increases in the cortex and basal forebrain during prolonged wakefulness and decreases during the sleep recovery period. Therefore, adenosine is proposed to act as a homeostatic regulator of sleep and to be a link between the humoral and neural mechanisms of sleep-wake regulation. Both the adenosine A(1) receptor (A(1)R) and A(2A)R are involved in sleep induction. The A(2A)R plays a predominant role in the somnogenic effects of PGD(2). By use of gene-manipulated mice, the arousal effect of caffeine was shown to be dependent on the A(2A)R. On the other hand, inhibition of wake-promoting neurons via the A(1)R also mediates the sleep-inducing effects of adenosine, whereas activation of A(1)R in the lateral preoptic area induces wakefulness, suggesting that A(1)R regulates the sleep-wake cycle in a site-dependent manner. The potential therapeutic applications of agonists and antagonists of these receptors in sleep disorders are briefly discussed.
L-Dopa improves Restless Legs Syndrome and periodic limb movements in sleep but not Attention-Deficit-Hyperactivity Disorder in a double-blind trial in children.	In a previous open-label study, dopaminergic agents improved Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS) and Periodic Limb Movements in Sleep (PLMS), as well as Attention-Deficit-Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) in children with both disorders. We therefore conducted a double-blind placebo-controlled trial of L-DOPA in ADHD children with and without RLS/PLMS.
Pharmacological advances in the treatment of insomnia.	Insomnia is a highly prevalent condition, and due to ongoing demand from patients suffering with this condition, new pharmacological treatments are actively being sought. As our neurophysiological understanding of insomnia grows, so too do the available treatment options. A significant advance in the treatment of insomnia came with the development of the nonbenzodiazepine hypnotic medications, zolpidem, zaleplon and eszopiclone. These medications have shorter durations of action than many traditional benzodiazepines and may be associated with less risk of tolerance and abuse. They have also been demonstrated to be helpful in cases in which insomnia is comorbid with depression or anxiety, leading to beneficial effects not only with sleep but also with mood and anxiety symptoms. Melatonin, a naturally-occurring substance intimately involved in the regulation of the circadian rhythm, has also been explored as a hypnotic. Little data to date support its use; however, there is evidence that ramelteon, a melatonin agonist, may be helpful for sleep initiation difficulties. Tri-cyclic antidepressants have long been used for insomnia, but use has been limited by unwanted anticholinergic side effects. Low-dose doxepin, at doses of 3 and 6mg, has been demonstrated to have the unique property among its class of being free of anticholinergic effects at those doses. In addition, it seems to have particular efficacy for sleep maintenance insomnia, exhibiting the most robust effects in the latter third of the night. The hypocretin/orexin system has been identified as a possible target. Almorexant, a hypocretin/orexin antagonist displayed evidence of efficacy during Phase III clinical trials but these trials were recently discontinued due to its side effect profile. Another hypocretin/orexin antagonist with a different mechanism of action, MK-4035, is presently in clinical trials. Serotonin antagonists and inverse agonists have been investigated; however, a recent trial with APD125 was discontinued due to lack of efficacy. Sodium oxybate has been used off-label for insomnia by some providers, although data supporting its use are limited. While the sleep-promoting effects of GABA(A) (nonbenzodiazepines and benzodiazepines) enhancement is well-established, newer research examining other mechanisms of action suggest that agents which modulate the histaminergic, serotonergic, melontonergic, and hypocretin/orexin and perhaps GABA-B systems show promise.
Opioids, sleep, and sleep-disordered breathing.	Opioid medications are increasingly used to treat chronic pain. Opioid-associated respiratory depression, and their potential to cause nocturnal apneas, is increasingly recognized as a major contributor to nocturnal hypoxemia and sleep-disordered breathing. Given the widespread use of opioids, understanding their mechanism of action and their potential to cause adverse effects particularly during sleep is critical. This article reviews the salient features of the physiologic control of respiration and sleep, and the role opioids play in altering that regulation. Additionally, we summarize the evidence regarding the association between opioid use and sleep-disordered breathing and explore treatment modalities for opioid-associated nocturnal respiratory depression and apneas.
A review of sodium oxybate and baclofen in the treatment of sleep disorders.	Studies examining GABA(B) receptor agonists have reported effects on sleep including decreased sleep onset latency (SOL), increased sleep consolidation and increases in slow wave sleep (SWS). -hydroxybutyrate (GHB) is proposed to act as a GABA(B) receptor agonist; however, the mechanism of action of GHB is controversial. In addition, the GABA(B) receptor agonist, baclofen, has also been proposed to exert similar effects on sleep. The aim of this paper is to provide a review of the human clinical studies of sodium oxybate and baclofen regarding sleep and the treatment of sleep disorders including narcolepsy and insomnia, as well as other disorders involving disrupted sleep such as fibromyalgia.
Clinical and physiological correlates of caffeine and caffeine metabolites in primary insomnia.	To explore the relationship between plasma concentrations of caffeine and subjective and polysomnographic measures of sleep in both good sleeper controls (GSC) and individuals with primary insomnia (PI), following the consumption of low-moderate quantities of caffeine in the home environment.
Effects of isotretinoin treatment on sleep in patients with severe acne: a pilot study.	 There are a few case reports in literature that isotretinoin treatment may alter sleep architecture. Also studies in mice suggest a role of retinoids in the contribution of delta oscillations to the sleep electroencephalography.
A review of potential neurotoxic mechanisms among three chlorinated organic solvents.	The potential for central nervous system depressant effects from three widely used chlorinated solvents, trichloroethylene (TCE), perchloroethylene (PERC), and dichloromethane (DCM), has been shown in human and animal studies. Commonalities of neurobehavioral and neurophysiological changes for the chlorinated solvents in in vivo studies suggest that there is a common mechanism(s) of action in producing resultant neurotoxicological consequences. The purpose of this review is to examine the mechanistic studies conducted with these chlorinated solvents and to propose potential mechanisms of action for the different neurological effects observed. Mechanistic studies indicate that this solvent class has several molecular targets in the brain. Additionally, there are several pieces of evidence from animal studies indicating this solvent class alters neurochemical functions in the brain. Although earlier evidence indicated that these three chlorinated solvents perturb the lipid bilayer, more recent data suggest an interaction between several specific neuronal receptors produces the resultant neurobehavioral effects. Collectively, TCE, PERC, and DCM have been reported to interact directly with several different classes of neuronal receptors by generally inhibiting excitatory receptors/channels and potentiating the function of inhibitory receptors/channels. Given this mechanistic information and available studies for TCE, DCM, and PERC, we provide hypotheses on primary targets (e.g. ion channel targets) that appear to be most influential in producing the resultant neurological effects.
Acute optogenetic silencing of orexin/hypocretin neurons induces slow-wave sleep in mice.	Orexin/hypocretin neurons have a crucial role in the regulation of sleep and wakefulness. To help determine how these neurons promote wakefulness, we generated transgenic mice in which orexin neurons expressed halorhodopsin (orexin/Halo mice), an orange light-activated neuronal silencer. Slice patch-clamp recordings of orexin neurons that expressed halorhodopsin demonstrated that orange light photic illumination immediately hyperpolarized membrane potential and inhibited orexin neuron discharge in proportion to illumination intensity. Acute silencing of orexin neurons in vivo during the day (the inactive period) induced synchronization of the electroencephalogram and a reduction in amplitude of the electromyogram that is characteristic of slow-wave sleep (SWS). In contrast, orexin neuron photoinhibition was ineffective during the night (active period). Acute photoinhibition of orexin neurons during the day in orexin/Halo mice also reduced discharge of neurons in an orexin terminal field, the dorsal raphe (DR) nucleus. However, serotonergic DR neurons exhibited normal discharge rates in mice lacking orexin neurons. Thus, although usually highly dependent on orexin neuronal activity, serotonergic DR neuronal activity can be regulated appropriately in the chronic absence of orexin input. Together, these results demonstrate that acute inhibition of orexin neurons results in time-of-day-dependent induction of SWS and in reduced firing rate of neurons in an efferent projection site thought to be involved in arousal state regulation. The results presented here advance our understanding of the role of orexin neurons in the regulation of sleep/wakefulness and may be relevant to the mechanisms that underlie symptom progression in narcolepsy.
Antinociceptive activity of the chloroform fraction of Dioclea virgata (Rich.) Amshoff (Fabaceae) in mice.	Acute treatment with the chloroform fraction of Dioclea virgata (Rich.) Amshoff (CFDv) in mice produced decreased ambulation and sedation in the behavioral pharmacological screening. Doses of 125 and 250mg/kg CFDv decreased latency of sleep onset in the test of sleeping time potentiation. In the open field, animals treated with CFDv reduced ambulation and rearing (250mg/kg), as well as defecation (125; 250mg/kg). Regarding the antinociceptive activity, CFDv (125, 250, 500mg/kg) increased latency to first writhing and decreased the number of writhings induced by acetic acid. In the formalin test, CFDv (250mg/kg) decreased paw licking time in the first and second phases indicating antinociceptive activity that can be mediated both peripherally and at the central level. CFDv did not affect motor coordination until 120 minutes after treatment. CFDv shows psychopharmacological effects suggestive of CNS-depressant drugs with promising antinociceptive activity.
Administration of URB597, oleoylethanolamide or palmitoylethanolamide increases waking and dopamine in rats.	Oleoylethanolamide (OEA) and palmitoylethanolamide (PEA) are amides of fatty acids and ethanolamine named N-acylethanolamines or acylethanolamides. The hydrolysis of OEA and PEA is catalyzed by the fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH). A number of FAAH inhibitors that increase the levels of OEA and PEA in the brain have been developed, including URB597. In the present report, we examined whether URB597, OEA or PEA injected into wake-related brain areas, such as lateral hypothalamus (LH) or dorsal raphe nuclei (DRN) would promote wakefulness (W) in rats.
Sleep and stress]	Stress is one of the main factors influencing sleep. Sleep could be considered as the adaptive mechanism including the stress defence. In the article, changes of the human night structure under the influence of stress are discussed. Specific and unspecific reaction of sleep parameters reflecting stress influences of different modalities, the pole of personality factors, and the methods of increasing the adaptive forces of the human through sleep normalization are described.
An open-label, multicentre study of levocetirizine for the treatment of allergic rhinitis and urticaria in Taiwanese patients.	Levocetirizine has been shown in observational studies in the west as an effective and satisfactory therapy for patients with allergic respiratory and skin disease. An open-label, multicentre observational study was conducted to investigate the patients' perception of levocetirizine in the treatment of allergic rhinitis (AR) and urticaria in Taiwanese patients. Three hundred and thirty-three patients (236 AR and 97 urticaria patients) attending out-patient clinics of medical centres across Taiwan were included in the study. Patients were treated with levocetirizine 5 mg once daily (AR patients for 2-4 weeks and urticaria patients for 2-6 weeks) and at the end of treatment, they evaluated for symptoms of disease, perception of change in symptoms, global efficacy and tolerability, global preference over previous antiallergic treatment, change in quality of sleep/daily activities, and safety and adverse events (AEs). Levocetirizine markedly improved the symptoms of AR and urticaria; with 70-75% of AR patients and 60-80% of urticaria patients reporting complete or marked improvements in individual symptoms. Asthma symptoms were completely or markedly improved in 44% of patients with AR and concomitant asthma. A majority of the patients was satisfied with levocetirizine therapy and 50-70% indicated preference for levocetirizine over previous therapy. Overall, 50-74% of all patients perceived improvements in quality of sleep/daily activities and 50-65% of the patients rated the onset of action for levocetirizine as very rapid or rapid. Somnolence was the most common AE, reported by 7.4% of AR and 7.0% of urticaria patients. The results of this study indicated that levocetirizine is an effective and satisfactory therapy for the management of allergic respiratory and skin disease in Taiwanese subjects.
Does antiepileptogenesis affect sleep in genetic epileptic rats?	Recently it was established that early long lasting treatment with the anti-absence drug ethosuximide (ETX) delays the occurrence of absences and reduces depressive-like symptoms in a genetic model for absence epilepsy, rats of the WAG/Rij strain. Here it is investigated whether anti-epileptogenesis (chronic treatments with ETX for 2 and 4 months) affects REM sleep in this model. Four groups of weaned male WAG/Rij rats were treated with ETX for 4 months, two groups for 2 months (at 2-3 and 4-5 months of age), the fourth group was untreated. Next, the rats were recorded 6 days after the last day of the treatment for 22.5 h. Non-REM sleep and REM sleep parameters and delta power were analyzed in four characteristic and representative hours of the recoding period. Four months treatment with ETX reduced the amount of REM sleep and REM sleep as percentage of total sleep time. Other sleep parameters were not affected by the treatment. Clear differences between the various hours of the light-dark phase in amounts of non-REM and REM sleep and delta power were found, in line with commonly reported circadian sleep patterns. It can be concluded that the reduction of REM sleep is unique for the early and long lasting chronic treatment. The outcomes may explain our earlier finding that a reduction of REM sleep might alleviate depressive like symptoms.
Maternal consumption of a DHA-containing functional food benefits infant sleep patterning: an early neurodevelopmental measure.	Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA; 22:6n-3) is highly important during pregnancy for optimal development and functioning of fetal neural tissue. Infant ability to organize sleep and wake states following parturition is highly associated with later developmental outcomes. The impact of maternal DHA intake on sleep organization has not been previously investigated.
Effect of melatonin on seizure frequency in intractable epilepsy: a pilot study.	Melatonin is effective for treating sleep-wake cycle disturbances and has been reported occasionally to decrease epileptic seizure frequency, with no long-term side effects. In this pilot study, the investigators examined the effect of melatonin on seizures, sleep quality, and behavior in 10 patients aged 9 to 32 years with intractable epilepsy. Patients were randomized to receive melatonin (10 mg daily at bedtime) followed by placebo or placebo followed by melatonin for 3 weeks each, with a 1-week washout period in between. Seizure frequency was monitored by daily diaries and actigraphy recordings; behavioral and sleep parameters were rated by caregivers. Diurnal seizures decreased significantly with melatonin compared with placebo (P = .034, Wilcoxon test). Maximal number of seizures, seizure duration, sleep efficiency or latency, and behavioral parameters remained unchanged. No major side effects or seizure aggravation were documented. It is concluded that melatonin could be effective and safe for decreasing daytime seizure frequency in patients with intractable epilepsy.
Anti-psychotic and sedative effect of calcium channel blockers in mice.	Calcium channel blockers (CCBs) are widely used as therapeutic agents, for the treatment of cardiovascular disorders. However, the discovery that CCBs bind to various regions of the brain suggest that they might also offer some beneficial effects in the treatment of neuropsychiatry disorders. This study was carried out to evaluate the anti-psychotic and sedative effects of two notable calcium channel blockers, verapamil and nifedipine in mice. The anti-psychotic effects of the CCBs were studied in the animal model of amphetamine-induced stereotyped behavioral disorders. The sedative effect was assessed utilizing the prolongation of the time of sleep, induced by thiopentone. The ability of CCBs to produce catalepsy in mice was also evaluated in the study. Graded doses of verapamil (5.0-20.0 mg/kg, i.p) significantly (p<0.05) suppressed stereotyped behaviour induced by amphetamine (10.0 mg/kg, i.p). In contrast, nifedipine (5.0-20.0 mg/kg, i.p) did not exhibit anti-psychotic effect, as it could not significantly reduce stereotypy caused by amphetamine. In the test for sedation, both verapamil (5.0-20.0 mg/kg, i.p) and nifedipine (10.0-20.0 mg/kg) significantly (p<0.05) prolonged the sleeping time induced by thiopentone (50.0 mg/kg, i.p). However, neither verapamil (5.0-20.0 mg/kg, i.p.) nor nifedipine (5.0-20.0 mg/kg, i.p.) at the tested doses produced any cataleptic behaviour in the animals. The results of the study suggest that verapamil has both anti-psychotic and sedative effects without inducing the side effect of catalepsy and might be relevant in the treatment of psychosis.
Sedative, antiepileptic and antipsychotic effects of Viscum album L. (Loranthaceae) in mice and rats.	Viscum album L. is claimed in traditional medical practice, to be useful in the treatment of epilepsy and insomnia in Himachal Pradesh, India.
GABAergic processes within the median preoptic nucleus promote NREM sleep.	GABAergic mechanisms in the preoptic region of the hypothalamus (POA) have been implicated in the generation and maintenance of NREM (quiet) sleep. We recently reported that neurons in the median peptic nucleus (MnPN) in the POA of the cat are selectively activated during NREM sleep. In the present study, we explored the hypothesis that NREM sleep is controlled by GABAergic mechanisms within the MnPN. Consequently, adult cats were utilized to determine GABA immunorreactivity within the MnPN and to examine the effects on sleep of the microinjection of a GABA(A) agonist (muscimol) and a GABA(A) antagonist (bicuculline) into this area. GABAergic neurons were present throughout the MnPN. Compared with control microinjections, after the application of muscimol, the time spent in NREM sleep (59.87.5 min) and REM sleep (6.94.7 min) decreased compared with control microinjections (103.85.2 and 20.24.3 min, respectively; P<0.005). In contrast, bicuculline microinjections increased only NREM sleep time (103.023.0 vs 77.723.7 min; P<0.05). These results demonstrate that GABAergic processes within the MnPN are involved in the generation and maintenance of sleep, especially NREM sleep.
Monounsaturated fatty acids prevent the aversive effects of obesity on locomotion, brain activity, and sleep behavior.	Fat and physical inactivity are the most evident factors in the pathogenesis of obesity, and fat quality seems to play a crucial role for measures of glucose homeostasis. However, the impact of dietary fat quality on brain function, behavior, and sleep is basically unknown. In this study, mice were fed a diet supplemented with either monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs) or saturated fatty acids (SFAs) and their impact on glucose homeostasis, locomotion, brain activity, and sleep behavior was evaluated. MUFAs and SFAs led to a significant increase in fat mass but only feeding of SFAs was accompanied by glucose intolerance in mice. Radiotelemetry revealed a significant decrease in cortical activity in SFA-mice whereas MUFAs even improved activity. SFAs decreased wakefulness and increased non-rapid eye movement sleep. An intracerebroventricular application of insulin promoted locomotor activity in MUFA-fed mice, whereas SFA-mice were resistant. In humans, SFA-enriched diet led to a decrease in hippocampal and cortical activity determined by functional magnetic resonance imaging techniques. Together, dietary intake of MUFAs promoted insulin action in the brain with its beneficial effects for cortical activity, locomotion, and sleep, whereas a comparable intake of SFAs acted as a negative modulator of brain activity in mice and humans.
Awakening properties of newly discovered highly selective H receptor antagonists in rats.	The objective of the present study was to compare the awakening effects of two newly discovered H receptor antagonists (i.e. SAR110894 and SAR110068) with those of reference H receptor ligands (i.e. ciproxifan, ABT-0239 and GSK189254) and classical psychostimulants (i.e. amphetamine and modafinil) by using EEG recording in rats during their light phase. Results showed that SAR110068 (10 and 30 mg/kg, p.o.) increased wakefulness and decreased slow wave sleep to a similar degree than ciproxifan (10 mg/kg, i.p.), ABT-0239 (10 mg/kg, p.o.) and GSK189254 (10 mg/kg, p.o.), while SAR110894 (3-30 mg/kg, p.o.) did not modify significantly any of the sleep/wakefulness parameters. Time-course analysis revealed that the awakening effects of GSK189254 lasted for about 1h, while ciproxifan, ABT-0239 and SAR110068 produced such effects for 3-4 h. The magnitude of the awakening effects of the psychostimulants, amphetamine (3 mg/kg, i.p.) and modafinil (300 mg/kg, i.p.), was dramatically higher than with the H compounds, and they lasted for 5 and 6 h, respectively. However, unlike the H receptor antagonists, both psychostimulants produced a strong increase in theta () rhythm, which is indicative of CNS side effects, such as hyperactivity or abnormal excitation. In conclusion, this study provides further evidence to support the potential use of H receptor antagonists in the treatment of vigilance and sleep-wake disorders such as narcolepsy.
Influence of antipsychotic agents on heart rate variability in male WKY rats: implications for cardiovascular safety.	Sudden cardiac death is higher among schizophrenic patients and is associated with parasympathetic hypoactivity. Antipsychotic agents are highly suspected to be a precipitating factor. Thus, we aimed to test if the antipsychotics haloperidol, risperidone and clozapine affect cardiac autonomic function, excluding the confounding effect of altered sleep structure by the drugs.
Factors affecting sleep quality of patients in intensive care unit.	Sleep disturbance is a frequently overlooked complication of intensive care unit (ICU) stay.
The effect of escitalopram versus placebo on perceived stress and salivary cortisol in healthy first-degree relatives of patients with depression-A randomised trial.	The effect of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) on healthy individuals remains unclear. We tested the hypothesis that escitalopram decreases perceived stress and salivary cortisol. The trial has a randomised, blinded, placebo-controlled, parallel-group design. After informed consent 80 healthy first-degree relatives to patients with depression were randomly allocated to receive daily tablets of escitalopram 10mg or placebo for 4 weeks. The area under the curve (AUC) for awakening and all day salivary cortisol was analysed in samples taken immediately after awakening and at 15-min intervals for the next hour, and at 12:00, 18:00 and 23:00. The salivary cortisol awakening response, all day salivary cortisol, and scale scores on sleep, pain, aggression, quality of life, and perceived stress assessed at entry were compared to values following 4 weeks of intervention. Statistically significant decreases were found in awakening salivary cortisol (P=0.04) and in all day salivary cortisol (P=0.02) in the escitalopram group compared with the placebo group. There were no statistically significant differences in perceived stress between the intervention groups. These findings from a randomised clinical trial suggest that a long-term escitalopram administration to healthy participants results in a decrease in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) activity measured by salivary cortisol compared with inert placebo. However, change in salivary cortisol was one out of multiple outcome measures. The results of the present trial do not refute salivary cortisol as a potential endophenotype for depression.
The margin of safety of a single application of transdermal fentanyl solution when administered at multiples of the therapeutic dose to laboratory dogs.	Previous studies have demonstrated that a single, topical application of a novel, long-acting transdermal fentanyl solution provides analgesic fentanyl concentrations for at least 4 days. The objective of this study was to describe the margin of safety following application at multiples of the therapeutic dose. Twenty-four laboratory dogs were administered a single placebo or 1, 3, or 5 multiple of the dose of 2.6 mg/kg (50 L/kg) to the ventral abdominal skin and observed for 14 days. Plasma fentanyl concentrations increased in proportion to dose. Adverse reactions in the 1 group were transient and included a low prevalence ( 33%) of mild sedation, reduced food intake, modest weight loss, and minimal reductions in heart rate and rectal temperature. Moderate to severe sedation emerged in the 3 and 5 groups, which was associated with a dose-limiting reduction in food and water intake, necessitating maintenance fluid replacement for the first 2 days following application. Also observed in the higher-dose groups were an increased prevalence of abnormal stools and transient lens opacities. All abnormal health observations were completely resolved prior to necropsy on day 14, and there were no histological abnormalities identified. These data support the safe use of the 1 dose and describe the outcome of an overdose of up to 5 dose in the absence of opioid reversal.
-adrenergic signaling regulates evolutionarily derived sleep loss in the Mexican cavefish.	Sleep is a fundamental behavior exhibited almost universally throughout the animal kingdom. The required amount and circadian timing of sleep differs greatly between species in accordance with habitats and evolutionary history. The Mexican blind cavefish, Astyanax mexicanus, is a model organism for the study of adaptive morphological and behavioral traits. In addition to loss of eyes and pigmentation, cave populations of A. mexicanus exhibit evolutionarily derived sleep loss and increased vibration attraction behavior, presumably to cope with a nutrient-poor environment. Understanding the neural mechanisms of evolutionarily derived sleep loss in this system may reveal critical insights into the regulation of sleep in vertebrates. Here we report that blockade of -adrenergic receptors with propranolol rescues the decreased-sleep phenotype of cavefish. This effect was not seen with -adrenergic antagonists. Treatment with selective 1-, 2-, and 3-antagonists revealed that the increased sleep observed with propranolol could partially be explained via the 1-adrenergic system. Morphological analysis of catecholamine circuitry revealed conservation of gross catecholaminergic neuroanatomy between surface and cave morphs. Taken together, these findings suggest that evolutionarily derived changes in adrenergic signaling underlie the reduced sleep of cave populations.
How smoking affects sleep: a polysomnographical analysis.	Subjective quality of sleep is impaired in smokers compared with non-smokers, but there is only limited evidence from methodologically sound studies about differences in polysomnography (PSG) sleep characteristics. Therefore, this study used PSG to evaluate sleep in smokers and non-smokers while controlling for other parameters that affect sleep.
Orexin receptor antagonism for treatment of insomnia: a randomized clinical trial of suvorexant.	To assess the utility of orexin receptor antagonism as a novel approach to treating insomnia.
The dual orexin receptor antagonist almorexant induces sleep and decreases orexin-induced locomotion by blocking orexin 2 receptors.	Orexin peptides activate orexin 1 and orexin 2 receptors (OX(1)R and OX(2)R), regulate locomotion and sleep-wake. The dual OX(1)R/OX(2)R antagonist almorexant reduces activity and promotes sleep in multiple species, including man. The relative contributions of the two receptors in locomotion and sleep/wake regulation were investigated in mice.
Auditory evoked arousal responses of 3-month-old infants exposed to methamphetamine in utero: a nap study.	To investigate whether or not infants exposed to methamphetamine prenatally have impaired arousal responses from sleep.
Lesion of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus in rat augments cortical activation and disturbs sleep/wake state transitions structure.	The pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (PPT) represents a major aggregation of cholinergic neurons in the mammalian brainstem, which is important in the generation and maintenance of REM sleep. We investigated the effects of unilateral and bilateral PPT lesions on sleep and all the conventional sleep-state related EEG frequency bands amplitudes, in an attempt to find the EEG markers for the onset and progression of PPT cholinergic neuronal degeneration. The experiments were performed on 35 adult male Wistar rats, chronically implanted for sleep recording. During the surgical procedure for EEG and EMG electrodes implantation, the unilateral or bilateral PPT lesion was produced under ketamine/diazepam anesthesia, by the stereotaxically guided microinfusion of 100 nl 0.1M ibotenic acid (IBO) into PPT. We applied Fourier analysis to signals acquired throughout 6h of recordings, and each 10s epoch was differentiated as a Wake, NREM or REM state. We also calculated the group probability density estimates (PDE) of all Wake, NREM and REM conventional EEG frequency amplitudes, and the number of all the transition states using MATLAB 6.5. Our results show that the unilateral or bilateral PPT lesions did not change the sleep/wake architecture, but did change the sleep/wake state transitions structure and the sleep/state related "EEG microstructure". Unilateral or bilateral PPT lesions sustainably increased Wake/REM and REM/Wake transitions from 14 to 35 days after lesions. This was followed by decreased NREM/REM and REM/NREM transitions from 28 days only in the case of the bilateral PPT lesion. The unilateral PPT lesion augmented both Wake theta and REM beta while it also attenuated the relative amplitude of the Wake delta frequency, with a delay of one week. Following a bilateral PPT lesion there was augmentation of the relative amplitude of the Wake, NREM, and REM beta and REM gamma frequency which occurred simultaneously to NREM and Wake delta attenuation. We have shown that the PPT cholinergic neuronal loss sustainably increased the number of the Wake/REM and REM/Wake transitions and augmented sleep-states related cortical activation that was simultaneously expressed by the high frequency amplitude augmentation, as well as Wake and NREM delta frequency attenuation.
Association between sleep duration and blood pressure in adolescents.	In adults, sleep has an important role in the development of cardiovascular diseases. However, in young adolescents, the effect is unclear. The purpose of this cross-sectional study was to evaluate the association between sleep duration and blood pressure (BP) in subjects of 13 years of age. We evaluated 1771 adolescents as part of a population-based cohort (Epidemiological Health Investigation of Teenagers). Sleep duration was estimated based on the difference between self-reported usual bedtimes and wake-up times, and adolescents were classified into three categories: 8.5h (reference class), >8.5h and <9.5h, and 9.5h. BP was measured using the auscultatory method and was classified as high if the systolic or diastolic BP was 90th percentile according to the American Academy of Pediatrics. To evaluate the association between BP and sleep duration, the odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs) were computed by fitting binary logistic regression models with adjustments for caffeine intake and depressive symptoms in females and for caffeine intake and sports activities in males. The mean (s.d.) sleep duration was 9.0 (0.80)h per day. The prevalence of high BP was 32.5%, higher in males (35.3%) than in females (30.1%, P=0.019). After adjustment, in females, a positive association was found between sleep duration and high BP (>8.5 and <9.5h: OR=1.56, 95% CI 1.07-2.27; 9.5h: OR=1.83, 95% CI 1.23-2.70). Among males, no significant association was found between sleep duration and BP. Sleep duration was positively associated with BP in both sexes, although after adjustment for potential confounders, this association was significant only for female adolescents. 
Estradiol modulates recovery of REM sleep in a time-of-day-dependent manner.	Ovarian hormones are thought to modulate sleep and fluctuations in the hormonal milieu are coincident with sleep complaints in women. In female rats, estradiol increases waking and suppresses sleep. In this study, we asked whether this effect is mediated via circadian or homeostatic regulatory mechanisms. Ovariectomized female rats received daily injections of estradiol benzoate (EB) or sesame oil that mimicked the rapid increase and subsequent decline of circulating estradiol at proestrus. In one experiment, animals were sleep deprived for 6 h starting at lights-on, so that recovery began in the mid-light phase; in the second experiment, animals were sleep deprived starting in the mid-light phase, so that recovery began at lights-off. EB suppressed baseline rapid eye movement (REM) and non-REM (NREM) sleep and increased waking in the dark phase. In both experiments, EB enhanced REM recovery in the light phase while suppressing it in the dark compared with oil; this effect was most pronounced in the first 6 h of recovery. By contrast, NREM recovery was largely unaffected by EB. In summary, EB enhanced waking and suppressed sleep, particularly REM sleep, in the dark under baseline and recovery conditions. These strong temporally dependent effects suggest that EB consolidates circadian sleep-wake rhythms in female rats. 
Real-world, open-label study to evaluate the effectiveness of mirtazapine on sleep quality in outpatients with major depressive disorder.	The objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of mirtazapine on sleep quality in real-world outpatients with major depressive disorder (MDD).
The anticonvulsant and sedative effects of Gladiolus dalenii extracts in mice.	Gladiolus dalenii Van Geel is a medicinal plant commonly used in traditional medicine in Africa to treat epilepsy and many other diseases. Two in vivo mouse models (maximal electroshock and pentylenetetrazol-induced convulsions) were used to evaluate the anticonvulsant activities of the plant extracts. Diazepam-induced sleep was used for the evaluation of the sedative properties. The macerated extract of G. dalenii protected 100 and 83.3% of mice against PTZ- and MES-induced seizures, respectively. The aqueous extract of G. dalenii protected 100 and 83.3% of mice against PTZ- and MES-induced seizures, respectively. The lyophilized extract of G. dalenii also protected 100 and 83.3% of mice against PTZ- and MES-induced seizures, respectively. The coadministration of G. dalenii with diazepam resulted in an additive effect, while the coadministration of G. dalenii with flumazenil or FG7142 resulted in antagonistic effects. The macerate of G. dalenii also exerted sedative activity by reducing the latency time to sleep and increasing the total duration of sleep induced by diazepam. The sleeping time increased from 163min in the control group to 11811min at a dose of 150mg/kg of G. dalenii. The effects of G. dalenii suggested the presence of anticonvulsant and sedative activities that might show efficacy against secondarily generalized tonic-clonic seizures and primary generalized seizures and insomnia in humans. 
Vagotomy attenuates brain cytokines and sleep induced by peripherally administered tumor necrosis factor- and lipopolysaccharide in mice.	Systemic tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-) is linked to sleep and sleep altering pathologies in humans. Evidence from animals indicates that systemic and brain TNF- have a role in regulating sleep. In animals, TNF- or lipopolysaccharide (LPS) enhance brain pro-inflammatory cytokine expression and sleep after central or peripheral administration. Vagotomy blocks enhanced sleep induced by systemic TNF- and LPS in rats, suggesting that vagal afferent stimulation by TNF- enhances pro-inflammatory cytokines in sleep-related brain areas. However, the effects of systemic TNF- on brain cytokine expression and mouse sleep remain unknown.
Change of obstruction level during drug-induced sleep endoscopy according to sedation depth in obstructive sleep apnea.	We evaluated the change in upper airway collapse according to the depth of sedation during drug-induced sleep endoscopy (DISE), as well as characteristics possibly associated with that change.
Quetiapine versus haloperidol in the treatment of delirium: a double-blind, randomized, controlled trial.	Atypical antipsychotic drugs may have low propensity to induce extrapyramidal side effects in delirious patients. This study aimed to compare the efficacy and tolerability between quetiapine and haloperidol in controlling delirious behavior.
Wakefulness-promoting role of the inferior colliculus.	The inferior colliculus (IC) is a mesencephalic auditory nucleus involved in several functions including the analysis of the frequency and intensity of sounds as well as sound localization. In addition to auditory processes, the IC controls the expression of defensive responses. The objective of the present study was to test the hypothesis that the IC contributes to the maintenance of wakefulness. For this purpose, several experimental approaches were performed in urethane-anesthetized guinea pigs. Electrical or chemical stimulation of the IC resulted in electroencephalographic (EEG) desynchronization, theta rhythm in the hippocampus and an increase in heart rate; all of these effects suggest an arousal reaction. Furthermore, by means of extracellular unit recordings, we determined that most IC neurons increased their spontaneous and tone-evoked responses in association with EEG desynchronization. We also studied the effect on sleep and wakefulness of bilateral acute inhibition of the IC by microinjections of muscimol (a GABAA agonist), as well as the effect of bilateral IC lesions in chronically-instrumented (drug-free) guinea pigs. Acute (via muscimol microinjections), but not chronic (via electrolytic lesions) inhibition of the IC decreased wakefulness., We conclude that the IC plays an active role in the maintenance of wakefulness. Further, we propose that this nucleus may mediate arousal responses induced by biologically significant sounds. 
Spontaneous sleep-like brain state alternations and breathing characteristics in urethane anesthetized mice.	Brain state alternations resembling those of sleep spontaneously occur in rats under urethane anesthesia and they are closely linked with sleep-like respiratory changes. Although rats are a common model for both sleep and respiratory physiology, we sought to determine if similar brain state and respiratory changes occur in mice under urethane. We made local field potential recordings from the hippocampus and measured respiratory activity by means of EMG recordings in intercostal, genioglossus, and abdominal muscles. Similar to results in adult rats, urethane anesthetized mice displayed quasi-periodic spontaneous forebrain state alternations between deactivated patterns resembling slow wave sleep (SWS) and activated patterns resembling rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. These alternations were associated with an increase in breathing rate, respiratory variability, a depression of inspiratory related activity in genioglossus muscle and an increase in expiratory-related abdominal muscle activity when comparing deactivated (SWS-like) to activated (REM-like) states. These results demonstrate that urethane anesthesia consistently induces sleep-like brain state alternations and correlated changes in respiratory activity across different rodent species. They open up the powerful possibility of utilizing transgenic mouse technology for the advancement and translation of knowledge regarding sleep cycle alternations and their impact on respiration. 
Efficacy and safety of rotigotine in Japanese patients with restless legs syndrome: a phase 3, multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, parallel-group study.	We aimed to ascertain the efficacy and safety of transdermal rotigotine (2 and 3mg/24h) in Japanese patients with restless legs syndrome (RLS).
Sleep to forget: interference of fear memories during sleep.	Memories are consolidated and strengthened during sleep. Here we show that memories can also be weakened during sleep. We used a fear-conditioning paradigm in mice to condition footshock to an odor (conditioned stimulus (CS)). Twenty-four hours later, presentation of the CS odor during sleep resulted in an enhanced fear response when tested during subsequent wake. However, if the re-exposure of the CS odor during sleep was preceded by bilateral microinjections of a protein synthesis inhibitor into the basolateral amygdala, the subsequent fear response was attenuated. These findings demonstrate that specific fear memories can be selectively reactivated and either strengthened or attenuated during sleep, suggesting the potential for developing sleep therapies for emotional disorders. 
Effects of extended-release quetiapine fumarate on long-term functioning and sleep quality in patients with Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD): data from a randomized-withdrawal, placebo-controlled maintenance study.	This analysis evaluated effects of quetiapine XR maintenance treatment on functioning and sleep in patients with GAD.
Phytotherapy against insomnia: extravagant claims or an alternative medicine?	Insomnia or sleeplessness is a disorder characterized by a personal incapability to falling or staying asleep for a desirable period of time. Apart from Valeriana officinalis and Ziziphus jujuba most of the ethnobotanicals used for sleep disorders have not been evaluated for pharmacological or clinical efficacy against insomnia. Chinese herbal medicines involving polyherbal formulations are yet to be characterized and long-term side effects are yet to be evaluated. Anti insomniac phytotherapy opens up an exciting aspect of research which might benefit a large number of patients suffering from different degrees of insomnia.
Lithium prevents REM sleep deprivation-induced impairments on memory consolidation.	Pre-training rapid eye movement sleep (REMS) deprivation affects memory acquisition and/or consolidation. It also produces major REMS rebound at the cost of waking and slow wave sleep (SWS). Given that both SWS and REMS appear to be important for memory processes, REMS rebound after training may disrupt the organization of sleep cycles, i.e., excessive amount of REMS and/or little SWS after training could be harmful for memory formation.
D-cycloserine augmentation of exposure therapy for post-traumatic stress disorder: a pilot randomized clinical trial.	Viewing post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) as a disorder of emotional learning, this study used a cognitive enhancer synergistically with virtual reality exposure (VRE) therapy for the treatment of PTSD. The main objective was to determine if a novel pharmacotherapy, D-cycloserine (DCS), enhanced the efficacy of the psychotherapy. Pre-clinical studies suggest that when fear extinction occurs during DCS administration, neuroplasticity may be enhanced. VRE therapy is a particularly promising format to test the hypothesis that DCS enhances extinction learning, as sensory fear cues are standardized across patients. In a pilot randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, 100mg of DCS or placebo was administered 90min before each weekly VRE session, to ensure peak plasma concentrations during the sessions in 25 patients with chronic PTSD. The primary outcome measure was the Clinician Administered PTSD Scale (CAPS). Secondary outcome measures included the Beck Depression Inventory-II and the State-Trait Anger Expression Inventory-2. Assessments occurred at pre-treatment, following sessions 3, 6, 10, post-treatment, and at 6 months. The difference in CAPS between the VRE-DCS (n=13) and VRE-placebo (n=12) groups increased over time beginning at 6 weeks, with medium to large between-group effect sizes immediately post-treatment and 6 months later (d=0.68 and d=1.13, respectively). A similar pattern was observed for depression, anger expression, and sleep. PTSD remission rates were significantly greater for the VRE-DCS group (46% vs 8% at post-treatment; 69% vs 17% at 6 months). Patients in the VRE-DCS group showed earlier and greater improvement in PTSD symptoms compared with the VRE-placebo group. These results suggest a promising new treatment for PTSD.
Is buprenorphine transdermal patch equally safe and effective in younger and elderly patients with osteoarthritis-related pain? Results of an age-group controlled study.	A recent pharmacokinetic study with buprenorphine transdermal patches showed similar systemic exposures of buprenorphine in subjects aged 75 and 50-60 years. The current prospective, open-label study aimed to verify this in a clinical setting by evaluating efficacy and safety of buprenorphine patches in patients with chronic osteoarthritis (OA) pain.
Aging induced endoplasmic reticulum stress alters sleep and sleep homeostasis.	Alterations in the quality, quantity, and architecture of baseline and recovery sleep have been shown to occur during aging. Sleep deprivation induces endoplasmic reticular (ER) stress and upregulates a protective signaling pathway termed the unfolded protein response. The effectiveness of the adaptive unfolded protein response is diminished by age. Previously, we showed that endogenous chaperone levels altered recovery sleep in Drosophila melanogaster. We now report that acute administration of the chemical chaperone sodium 4-phenylbutyrate (PBA) reduces ER stress and ameliorates age-associated sleep changes in Drosophila. PBA consolidates both baseline and recovery sleep in aging flies. The behavioral modifications of PBA are linked to its suppression of ER stress. PBA decreased splicing of X-box binding protein 1 and upregulation of phosphorylated elongation initiation factor 2 , in flies that were subjected to sleep deprivation. We also demonstrate that directly activating ER stress in young flies fragments baseline sleep and alters recovery sleep. Alleviating prolonged or sustained ER stress during aging contributes to sleep consolidation and improves recovery sleep or sleep debt discharge. 
Poor autonomic nervous system functioning during sleep in recently detoxified alcohol-dependent men and women.	Alcoholism is considered an important risk factor for cardiovascular (CV) disease. Autonomic nervous system (ANS) function is a major indicator of CV health. Sleep is a suitable model to investigate ANS activity free from wake-related confounders. We investigated nighttime ANS functioning, and the relation between ANS activity and severity of alcohol dependence in chronic alcoholism.
Cannabis (medical marijuana) treatment for motor and non-motor symptoms of Parkinson disease: an open-label observational study.	The use of cannabis as a therapeutic agent for various medical conditions has been well documented. However, clinical trials in patients with Parkinson disease (PD) have yielded conflicting results. The aim of the present open-label observational study was to assess the clinical effect of cannabis on motor and non-motor symptoms of PD.
Clinical studies with levodopa/carbidopa intestinal gel]	The motor complications in advanced Parkinson's disease may interfere with the quality of life. To overcome this disability, a jejunal levodopa pump was developed. In this review we have summarized the published clinical data with this method.
Discovery of dual orexin receptor antagonists with rat sleep efficacy enabled by expansion of the acetonitrile-assisted/diphosgene-mediated 2,4-dichloropyrimidine synthesis.	Recent clinical studies have demonstrated that dual orexin receptor antagonists (OX1R and OX2R antagonists or DORAs) represent a novel treatment option for insomnia patients. Previously we have disclosed several compounds in the diazepane amide DORA series with excellent potency and both preclinical and clinical sleep efficacy. Additional SAR studies in this series were enabled by the expansion of the acetonitrile-assisted, diphosgene-mediated 2,4-dichloropyrimidine synthesis to novel substrates providing an array of Western heterocycles. These heterocycles were utilized to synthesize analogs in short order with high levels of potency on orexin 1 and orexin 2 receptors as well as in vivo sleep efficacy in the rat.
Modification of ethanol effects by bicuculline: genotype-dependent responses and inheritance.	Genetic influences on the interaction between ethanol (ETOH) and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurotransmitter systems were evaluated with a survey of responses to coadministration of ETOH and a GABA antagonist, bicuculline, in a battery of inbred mouse strains. The selectively bred ETOH-sensitive Long-Sleep (LS) mice, the relatively ETOH-resistant Short-Sleep (SS) mice, and a genetically heterogeneous stock (GHS) were also evaluated. The effect of bicuculline on ETOH-induced sedation, hypothermia, and blood ethanol content upon recovery from sedation was assessed. Inheritance of these responses was also examined using F1 hybrids. The effect of bicuculline on ETOH-produced narcosis varied widely among stocks and included antagonism, potentiation, and no effect. Changes in ETOH-induced narcosis produced by bicuculline were accompanied by changes in blood ethanol concentrations consistent with an hypothesis of altered central nervous system sensitivity to ETOH. Knowledge of a strain's seizure susceptibility to the GABA antagonist or of its sensitivity to the hypnotic effects of ETOH were of no predictive value in estimating the outcome of coadministration studies, suggesting at least partially separate genetic influences on each phenotype. In cross-breeding studies there was commonly dominance toward a profile of bicuculline antagonism of ETOH narcosis but different patterns of dominance were observed for seizure susceptibility, again indicating separate genetic control. The results suggest considerable complexity of GABAergic involvement in genotype-dependent ETOH sensitivity.
Effects of a new analogue of thyrotropin-releasing hormone on pentobarbital-induced sleeping time in rodents.	The effects of a new analogue of TRH, YM-14673 (N-[[(S)-4-oxo-2-azetidinyl]carbonyl]-L-histidyl-L-prolinamide dihydrate) on pentobarbital-sleeping time were observed in comparison with those of TRH in rodents. The YM-14673 was administered intravenously, orally and intramuscularly. In all cases it reduced pentobarbital-sleeping time in rats and/or mice in a dose-dependent manner. The analeptic activity of YM-14673 was about 10 times greater than that of TRH. Analeptic action was also observed with successive intravenous injections of YM-14673, once daily for 5 and 14 days in mice, suggesting that the drug induced no tolerance. In addition, there was evidence that the pituitary-thyroid axis was not necessary for the analeptic effects of YM-14673. In particular, it was noted that hypophysectomy did not reduce the antagonism by YM-14673 of pentobarbital-induced sleep and intracerebrally administered YM-14673 produced analeptic actions in mice. Pretreatment with atropine and baclofen antagonized the ability of YM-14673 to reduce sleep, induced by pentobarbital in mice. However, the analeptic action of YM-14673 was not reduced by the administration of haloperidol and phentolamine. These results suggest that YM-14673 produced facilitatory effects on the central nervous system, independent of an effect on the pituitary gland, and that the antagonizing effects by YM-14673 on the actions of pentobarbital may be affected by activation of the central cholinergic system as well as by inhibition of the GABA-ergic system.
Long-term hypnotic efficacy and safety of triazolam and flurazepam.	Both triazolam and flurazepam are effective hypnotics when administered nightly for 12 consecutive weeks. However, at the dosages tested, 0.6 mg triazolam had a significantly faster onset of activity than 30 mg flurazepam. Long-term administration of either treatment did not influence the patient's capability to recognize the difference between active drug and placebo. This supports the conclusion that there was no tolerance development on either treatment. There were no deleterious effects attributable to either treatment as measured by the 35-Item Hopkins Symptom Checklist or by physical examinations, laboratory tests, ECGs, and ophthalmologic examinations. Side effects occurred more often on flurazepam than on triazolam, and the number of patients experiencing side effects was significantly higher in the flurazepam group. Drowsiness and grogginess were reported most frequently on both treatments, and the number of patients reporting drowsiness or grogginess was also significantly higher in the flurazepam group.
Intrinsic effects of the benzodiazepine receptor antagonist RO 15-1788 in sleepy and alert subjects.	The present paper investigated the differential effects of 5 mg, 60 mg and 120 mg of the benzodiazepine receptor antagonist RO 15-1788 on the ability to resist sleep of sleepy and alert subjects. Repeated administrations of 5 mg potentiated the hypnotic effects of sleep-deprivation in alert subjects and decreased the hypnotic effects in sleepy subjects. Similar differential effects were found with respect to two factors of subjective mood. The two higher levels of the drug decreased sleepiness more in sleepy than in alert subjects. These results are interpreted to support the hypothesis that the effects of RO 15-1788 may be dependent on the level of an endogenous benzodiazepine-like sleep factor.
Effect of liver microsome enzyme-inducing drugs on blood serum pentobarbital clearance and sleep time in sheep and rabbits.	Sheep were administered phenobarbital, diphenylhydantoin, chlorcyclizine, or phenylbutazone over 27 days. Rabbits were administered phenobarbital, diphenylhydantoin, or chlorcyclizine for 15 days. After the last treatment, pentobarbital was administered intravenously, and measurements were made of sleep time and blood serum pentobarbital concentrations over a 2-hour period. Treatment of ewes with phenobarbital or phenylbutazone increased the rate of pentobarbital clearance from the circulation and shortened sleep time; treatment with diphenylhydantoin or chlorcyclizine decreased the rates of pentobarbital clearance from blood and increased sleep time. Treatment of rabbits with phenobarbital or diphenylhydantoin accelerated pentobarbital clearance from blood and shortened sleep time; chlorcyclizine had no effect on blood pentobarbital concentrations or sleep time. The results suggest that accelerated or delayed clearance of pentobarbital from the circulation was largely responsible for shortened or prolonged sleep times. Other factors may have been involved to some extent in determining sleep time, because ewes with shortened sleep time tended to awake with lower circulating concentrations of pentobarbital than did control ewes, and those with prolonged sleep time tended to awake with higher pentobarbital values.
The cholinergic influence upon rat dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus is dependent on state of arousal.	Several lines of evidence suggest a role for acetylcholine (ACh) in mediating the effects of state of arousal on transfer of visual information through the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN). Local application of cholinergic agonists to geniculate relay cells in anesthetized cats and rats produces predominantly facilitatory effects. This indicates that presynaptic release of ACh may be responsible for the increased excitability of LGN relay cells that is observed during waking and REM sleep. In this study in rats we have examined the influence of cholinergic agonists applied during the 3 natural states of arousal: waking, slow-wave (SW) sleep and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. Pharmacological agents were iontophoretically administered to identified, single cells in head-restrained, unanesthetized rats free to sleep and wake. Application of cholinergic agonist produced state-dependent differences in response in all geniculate relay-cells studied. During both waking and REM sleep, a facilitatory response was always observed, whereas in SW sleep responses were of three types: no effect (62%), inhibition (24%), and biphasic inhibition followed by facilitation (14%). All response types were antagonized by scopolamine. In contrast to the qualitatively different state-dependent effects of cholinergic agonists, response to application of glutamate, with quantitative variations, was uniformly facilitatory in all states, though responses in SW sleep tended to be lower in magnitude. The effects of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), glycine, and serotonin were inhibitory in all states. These data are consistent with the suggested role of ACh in mediation of increased relay-cell excitability during REM sleep and waking. Our findings, however, also indicate that in the transition from SW sleep to REM or waking, local release of ACh is not solely responsible for alterations in cell excitability.
Factor analysis of a sleep evaluation questionnaire.	A self-completion sleep evaluation questionnaire (SEQ), consisting of 10 cm line analogue rating scale questions, was constructed to investigate subjects' responses to aspects of sleep and early morning behaviour. The questions were grouped into 4 chronological areas: the ease of getting to sleep (GTS), the perceived quality of sleep (QOS), the ease of awakening from sleep (AFS), and the integrity of early morning behaviour following wakefulness (BFW). Five hundred and one SEQs were completed during several investigations into the comparative effectiveness of hypnotic drugs. The classical factor analysis produced 4 factors which corresponded to the 4 aspects of sleep and early morning behaviour listed above. The GTS and QOS factors were positively correlated (+0.57), as were the AFS and BFW factors (+0.48). The 2 sleeping state factors (GTS and QOS) were orthogonal to the 2 waking state factors (AFS and BFW).
Central nervous effects of a new tricyclic antidepressant (amitriptylinoxide).	The central action of amitriptylinoxide was investigated in mice and rats using established models. The substance was found to possess antidepressant, drive-promoting properties which correspond to amitriptyline in their intensity or are superior even. In addition the pharmacodynamic spectrum of amitriptylinoxide displays a sedative component that is considered a desirable accompanying effect but is somewhat weaker than with amitriptyline. According to revealed differences in this work between the pharmacological activities of amitripytlinoxide and those of other tricyclic antidepressants, it became reasonable to undertake further studies to investigate its main and side effects.
Ontogenetic development of ketamine-induced sleeping time and electrocorticographic changes in rats.	Latency to the loss of righting reflex and sleeping time after ketamine were measured in 261 rats aged 7, 12, 18, 25 and 90 days. The sensitivity to ketamine was highest in 7-day-old animals and decreased with age. In the youngest group rats slept after the 20-mg/kg dose whereas not all adult animals lost their righting ability after a dose of 160 mg/kg. Electrocorticographic (ECoG) study demonstrated an age dependence of changes induced by ketamine. The youngest group exhibited only suppression of the originally discontinuous ECoG whereas signs of slow-wave sleep or depression appeared in older rats.
Local perfusion of the thalamus with GABA increases sleep and induces long-lasting inhibition of somatosensory event-related potentials in cats.	The extracellular concentration of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) was increased in the ventroposterolateral nucleus of the thalamus in cats using in vivo microdialysis probes. In freely moving cats, the permanent injection of 8 x 10(-9) M/mm2 x min GABA induced a significant increase in sleep proportion. The duration of paradoxical sleep was particularly increased resembling the effects of benzodiazepines. In chloralose anesthesia, a similar increase in GABA concentration in the thalamus induced a tonic decrease in the peak-to-peak amplitude of cortical event-related potentials evoked by stimulation of the radial nerve. Following 10-15 min of inhibition during which the responses were as small as 20% of the original ones, the potentials started to recover. Finally, the responses were stabilized at a reduced amplitude. The present data suggests the important role of the thalamic GABAergic neurons in the regulation of sleep.
Effects of flunitrazepam and triazolam in man: are they influenced by the time of ingestion?	Five healthy young volunteers were given flunitrazepam 1 mg, triazolam 0.25 mg or placebo at 2 a.m. or 9 a.m. in a double blind, cross-over study. The aim was to investigate the cyclic variations mainly in residual effects of the drugs, but also in sleep onset latency and pharmacokinetics. The study suggested cyclic variations in mood, psychometric tests and in sleep onset latency.
Inhibition of hepatic microsomal drug metabolism in rats by five calcium antagonists.	The effects of five calcium antagonists, verapamil, diltiazem, nifedipine, darodipine and isradipine, on rat liver microsomal drug metabolism in vitro and in vivo were studied. All compounds prolonged hexobarbital-induced sleeping time in a dose-dependent manner (doses 3.0 and 30.0 mg/kg, except nifedipine 0.3 and 3.0 mg/kg) and inhibited cytochrome P450-dependent N-demethylation of aminopyrine in vitro in rat liver microsomes. The incubation of all compounds with microsomes resulted in the apparent formation of formaldehyde, suggesting either N- or O-demethylation. Diltiazem, isradipine and darodipine gave rise to a type I spectral change. Nifedipine seemed to produce a type II spectral change. A spectrum of verapamil changed from a type I to a type II as concentration increased. These results indicate that all calcium antagonists studied interact with P450 and are in vitro inhibitors of microsomal drug metabolism in the rat and the inhibition brings out pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions in vivo.
Synthesis and pharmacological evaluation of triazolo derivatives of 8-amino-10,11-dihydro-dibenzo[b,e]1,4-thiazepine-11-one.	In the present communication, the syntheses, characterization and pharmacological evaluation of 8-amino-(1,2,4)-triazolo[4,3-d][b,e]1,4-dibenzothiazepine (4) and its various substituted analogs (6-9) are reported.
Preparation and pharmacologic activity of amido- derivatives of 3-methyl-3,4-dihydro benzo- and pyrido-1,2,4-triazin-3-acetic acids]	Thirteen amidoderivatives of 3-methyl-3,4-dihydro-6-R-benzo-1,2,4-triazin-3-yl-acetic acids and of 3-methyl-3,4-dihydro-pyrido [3,2-e]/[3,4-e]-1,2,4-triazin- 3-yl-acetic acids were prepared and submitted to a wide pharmacological screening. The dihydrobenzotriazine and dihydropyridotriazine moieties were endowed with a wide pharmacogenic capacity; in fact, several compounds exhibited high antiinflammatory [(I c), (I d), (II d), (V f), (VI f)], diuretic [(I f), (I g), (I h)] and antihypertensive activities [(I d), (III d)], as well as minor effects on the C.N.S.
The effect of neurotensin, TRH and the delta-opioid receptor antagonist ICI 174864 on alcohol-induced narcosis in rats.	The effects of microinjections of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH), neurotensin and ICI 174864 into the nucleus accumbens, nucleus caudatus, septum and mesencephalic periaqueductal grey were studied on ethanol-induced narcosis in the rat. Levels of narcosis were assessed by alterations in ethanol-induced hypothermia and sleep time. Ethanol produces a 2 degree C fall in body temperature over the first hour which then recovered over the next 2 h. Sedation was produced to the extent that the righting reflex was lost for between 80 and 90 min. In the nucleus caudatus all 3 peptides were ineffective at altering narcosis. In the periaqueductal grey, septum and accumbens, TRH (5 micrograms) and ICI 174864 (1 microgram) microinjections significantly reduced the sleep time by between 50 and 70%. ICI 174864 was approximately 10 times more potent that TRH at reducing the sleep time. In addition, both these peptides significantly accelerated the recovery from the ethanol-induced hypothermia in the periaqueductal grey, septum and accumbens. ICI 174864 prevented the ethanol-induced fall in body temperature. Neurotensin (5 micrograms) significantly increased the sleep time by up to 50% and potentiated the ethanol-induced hypothermia. These results suggest that the administration of TRH or the blockade of delta-opioid receptors, resulting in an inhibition of endogenous enkephalin transmission, may significantly inhibit ethanol narcosis in the rat. Opposing this, the application of neurotensin appears to potentiate ethanol narcosis. These results also indicate that endogenous enkephalin release plays an important role in ethanol narcosis.
Enhancement by alpha-fluoromethylhistidine of the thiopental sleep-prolonging action of delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol.	The effect of alpha-fluoromethylhistidine (alpha-FMH), a specific inhibitor of histidine decarboxylase, on the potentiation of thiopental-induced sleep by delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), which inhibits the histamine turnover in the brain, was examined in mice and rats. The sleeping time after injection of thiopental sodium (40 mg/kg, IV) was prolonged by THC (10 mg/kg, IP, 1 h before) to approximately twice the control value. alpha-FMH (50 mg/kg, IP) administered alone had no significant influence on the thiopental sleeping time. However, alpha-FMH given 1 or 3 h before THC treatment markedly enhanced the THC potentiation of thiopental-induced sleep. Such an enhancement by alpha-FMH was not observed when alpha-FMH was administered 15 h before THC treatment. The brain histamine level decreased by 60% during the first 4 h after alpha-FMH injection and remained low until 15 h after the treatment. The thiopental sleep-potentiating action of morphine, chlorpromazine and diazepam was not affected by pretreatment with alpha-FMH. The transient enhancing effect of alpha-FMH on the THC potentiation of thiopental-induced sleep suggests that the histaminergic system is one of the activating transmitter systems in the brain.
Pharmacological profile of etintidine, a new histamine H2-receptor antagonist.	Etintidine is a potent competitive antagonist of histamine H2-receptors. It is 4.6 and 2.2 times more potent than cimetidine in the isolated guinea pig atrium (pA2 = 7.18) and the isolated rabbit parietal cell (pA2 = 6.51), respectively. Etintidine is 2.0 (ED50 = 1.8 mg/kg, i.g.) times more potent than cimetidine at inhibiting betazole-stimulated total acid output in the chronic gastric fistula dog. In the 4 hr pylorus-ligated rat etintidine is a potent inhibitor of total acid output (ED50 = 22 mg/kg, i.d.), total pepsin output, and is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. Additional pharmacological and biochemical studies indicate that etintidine displays minimal competition with appropriate ligands for the alpha 1, alpha 2, cholinergic and neuroleptic receptors in vitro, and has minimal effects on the immunological, autonomic and central nervous systems at doses much higher than antisecretory doses. While high doses of both cimetidine and etintidine increase serum prolactin levels in rats, the effect of etintidine is less than that of cimetidine. Similarly, the prolongation of hexobarbital-induced sleep time in rats is less than with cimetidine. These data indicate that etintidine may be potentially useful and safe in the treatment of peptic ulcer disease and may offer some advantages over cimetidine in terms of less potential for side effects.
Dose effects of temazepam tablets on sleep.	The dose effects of temazepam tablets (15 and 30 mg) were studied at two sleep centres in 48 volunteers who had objective polysomnographic evidence of sleep onset insomnia. Volunteers slept in the laboratory, retiring at their usual bedtime after taking placebo or temazepam 30 min earlier, and were monitored for 8 h using standard polysomnographic techniques. Acute (nights 5-7) and short term (nights 11-13) temazepam, both 15 and 30 mg, improved the sleep of these volunteers by reducing sleep latency and increasing sleep time compared to the placebo baseline (nights 2-4). Dose differences were found primarily on the measurement of sleep staging, with 30 mg having a greater or more consistent effect than 15 mg. No residual effects were observed on the basis of questionnaires and objective tests of performance and no consistent evidence of disturbed sleep after discontinuing treatment was seen.
Evidence that locus coeruleus is the site where clonidine and drugs acting at alpha 1- and alpha 2-adrenoceptors affect sleep and arousal mechanisms.	The behavioural and electrocortical (ECoG) effects of clonidine were studied after microinjection into the third cerebral ventricle, or microinfusion into some specific areas of the rat brain rich in noradrenaline-containing cell bodies (locus coeruleus) or into areas receiving noradrenergic terminals (dorsal hippocampus, amygdaloid complex, thalamus, frontal and sensimotor cortex). The ECoG effects were continuously analysed and quantified by means of a Berg-Fourier analyser as total power and as power in preselected bands of frequency. Clonidine (9.4 to 75 nmol) given into the third cerebral ventricle produced behavioural sedation and sleep and a dose-dependent increase in ECoG total voltage power as well as in the lower frequency bands. Much lower doses were required to produce similar behavioural and ECoG spectrum power effects after either unilateral or bilateral microinfusion of clonidine into the locus coeruleus. Doses of clonidine equimolar to those given into the third cerebral ventricle, were almost ineffective in inducing behavioural and ECoG sleep after their microinfusion into the dorsal hippocampus. In addition, a dose (0.56 nmol) of clonidine which, given into the locus coeruleus, produced marked behavioural sleep and ECoG synchronization, lacked effects when given into the ventral or anterior thalamus, into the amygdaloid complex or onto the frontal and sensimotor cortex. The behavioural and ECoG spectrum power effects of clonidine given into the third cerebral ventricle or into the locus coeruleus were prevented by antagonists of alpha 2-adrenoceptors but not by alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonists. Intraventricular microinjection, or microinfusion into the locus coeruleus, of yohimbine, a selective alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist, produced behavioural arousal, increase in locomotor and exploratory activity, tachypnoea and ECoG desynchronization with a significant reduction in total voltage power. Similar stimulatory effects were also observed after microinjection of phentolamine into the same sites. No significant effects on behaviour and ECoG activity were evoked after intraventricular injection or microinfusion into the locus coeruleus of prazosin or methoxamine.
Controlled clinical evaluation of 2 hypnotic triazole benzodiazepines, estazolam and triazolam, used the night before surgical interventions]	In order to study the efficacy of estazolam versus triazolam in preoperative patients, two groups of 49 patients each were treated with 2 mg estazolam and 0.5 mg triazolam in a single dose, the night before surgery. This controlled study was designed to evaluate sleep patterns, emotional status on awakening and side effects, by the administration of a questionnaire either in the morning of the day before (baseline) or on the morning of surgery. The results show better sleep patterns after estazolam excepting the duration of sleep that was the same for the two drugs. The better emotional status upon awakening in the morning before surgery and the lower incidence of side effects in the patients treated with estazolam, lead to the conclusion that estazolam is clearly better than triazolam in the treatment of preoperative patients.
Short-term sleep laboratory studies with cinolazepam in situational insomnia induced by traffic noise.	In a double-blind, placebo-controlled sleep-laboratory study the short-term effects of cinolazepam--a recently introduced 1,4 benzodiazepine with a half-life of 9 h--on the all-night sleep, morning awakening and early morning behaviour were investigated in 20 young normal subjects, whose sleep was experimentally disturbed by nocturnal traffic noise. The latter was prerecorded on tape and reproduced by loud speakers throughout the night with a sound pressure level of 68-90 dB(A) (energy equivalent mean noise level LAeq: 79dB(A)). According to the parallel group design subjects received either a placebo or 40 mg cinolazepam. Specifically, they spent nine nights in the sleep laboratory: two adaptation nights, one baseline night on placebo, three drug or placebo nights, and three post-drug/placebo nights under traffic noise. Somnopolygraphic investigations were carried out between 22h30 and 06h00. The drug was given orally half an hour before bedtime. Each 30 sec epoch was scored according to the criteria of Rechtschaffen and Kales. In the morning the subjects were awakened by 1000 Hz tones which were increased in loudness in 10 dB steps in two minute intervals. A sleep self-rating scale for sleep and awakening quality was completed half an hour after the morning toilet. Thereafter noopsychic and thymopsychic variables were evaluated utilizing a psychometric test battery. Statistical analyses of objective sleep variables demonstrated a significant improvement of sleep maintenance after 40 mg cinolazepam as reflected by an increase of sleep efficiency, decrease of wake time (during total sleep period) and number of awakenings as compared with the placebo. Sleep architecture was only affected slightly: sleep stage S1 decreased, S2 increased, while S3, S4 and SREM (S rapid eye movement) remained unchanged. Subjective sleep quality improved significantly as well. In the mornings there were no hangover signs, neither in subjective nor in objective psychometric and psychophysiological variables. Finally, the study suggests that man can adapt subjectively to nocturnal traffic noise over one week, although the improvement of objective sleep variables over time did not reach the level of statistical significance.
Clinical perspectives of beta-carbolines from first studies in humans.	First results from studies in healthy subjects with the beta-carbolines ZK 91 296, ZK 95 962 and ZK 93 426 are reviewed. ZK 91 296 and ZK 95 962, characterized as partial benzodiazepine agonists in preclinical research, were unable to induce some typical benzodiazepine effects like sedation when administered intravenously in high doses. ZK 95 962, reported to be effective in photoepileptic patients, was able to reverse lormetazepam-induced sleep as documented by EEG-parameters. The benzodiazepine receptor antagonist ZK 93 426 dose-dependently elicited alertness, restlessness and mild apprehension--symptoms opposite those known for the benzodiazepines. The activating effect of ZK 93 426 was confirmed by the results from e.g., self-rating scales and the logical reasoning test. In another placebo-controlled study comparing the effects of ZK 93 426 alone and in combination with lormetazepam vigilosomnograms obtained after ZK 93 426 alone clearly confirmed the activating effect. In combination with lormetazepam ZK 93 426 was able to reverse the benzodiazepine induced sleep. The attenuation of benzodiazepine effects was also evident from multiple sleep latency tests. Our results support findings from animal experiments which classify these beta-carbolines as benzodiazepine receptor ligands with partial agonist and antagonist properties. beta-Carbolines may prove to be beneficial drugs in the treatment of anxiety, convulsions and diseases with an impairment of cognitive functions as well as in the reversal of unwanted benzodiazepine effects.
Sleep and benzodiazepine receptor sub-types.	CL 218,872, which preferentially binds to benzodiazepine (BZ) type 1 receptors, and flurazepam, which is thought to bind to both types 1 and 2, were given alone and in combination to rats. CL 218,872 had little effect on sleep latency, but significantly increased total sleep time. As expected, flurazepam both shortened sleep latency and prolonged total sleep. Pretreatment with CL 218,872 had no effect on these alterations in sleep induced by flurazepam. The implications for possible significance of sub-typing of BZ receptors are discussed.
The potential anxiolytic activity of GR38032F, a 5-HT3-receptor antagonist.	1. The highly selective 5-HT3-receptor antagonist, GR38032F, has been tested in five animal models predictive for anxiolytic activity. 2. In the social interaction test in the rat and in a light/dark exploration test in the mouse, GR38032F dose-dependently released suppressed behaviour without modifying locomotor activity. 3. In the cynomolgus monkey and the marmoset, GR38032F reduced anxiety-related symptoms without causing sedation. In the marmoset, the effects were clearly dose-related. 4. GR38032F did not have any detectable activity in the water-lick conflict test in the rat. 5. We conclude that GR38032F is potentially a very potent anxiolytic agent without sedative, anticonvulsant or hypnotic activity.
Altered pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic relationship of heptabarbital in experimental renal failure in rats.	The purpose of this investigation was to determine whether renal dysfunction is associated with an alteration in the concentration-anesthetic effect relationship of heptabarbital (HB). Adult female rats were pretreated with uranyl nitrate (5 mg/kg i.v.) to produce renal dysfunction. Saline-injected rats served as controls. The concentration-effect relationship of HB was determined both at onset of loss of righting reflex (LRR) during an i.v. infusion (0.563 mg/min) and at offset of LRR after administration of a bolus dose (82 and 111 mg/kg in renal failure and controls, respectively, inducing similar durations of effect). In renal failure HB concentrations in serum (total and free) and in brain and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) both at onset and offset of LRR were reduced significantly. When HB was infused at different rates (0.225, 0.563 and 1.50 mg/min) rats with renal impairment had slightly increasing HB concentrations at onset of LRR with increasing infusion rate, not only in serum and brain but also in CSF. When HB was administered in different bolus doses (71, 77, 80 and 96 mg/kg i.v.) the duration of effect increased linearly with the logarithm of the dose, but HB concentrations in serum (both total and free), brain and CSF at offset of LRR were similar, indicating the absence of (inter)active metabolites. The results indicate that renal dysfunction is associated with an increased sensitivity of the brain to HB, which is unrelated to changes in the disposition of HB.
Sleep patterns of Down's syndrome children: effects of butoctamide hydrogen succinate (BAHS) administration.	Several investigators have described the altered sleep patterns in Down's syndrome subjects. The most relevant findings have been a reduction in percentage of REM sleep, a prolonged latency to the first REM episode, an increase in undifferentiated sleep, and a reduced ratio of the oculomotor frequencies. Because it is of interest to identify new drugs able to increase the percentage of REM sleep in mentally retarded subjects, we studied the effects of butoctamide hydrogen succinate (BAHS) on nocturnal sleep in eight young institutionalized Down's syndrome subjects. BAHS produced a significant increase in the percentage of REM sleep as well as a decrease in undifferentiated sleep and latency to the first REM.
Neonatal desipramine or zimeldine treatment causes long-lasting changes in brain monoaminergic systems and alcohol related behavior in rats.	To study the relationship between neonatal antidepressant administration, active (REM) sleep and adult alcohol-related behavior, rat pups were treated daily with 5 mg/kg desipramine (DMI) or 25 mg/kg zimeldine SC from the 6th to the 19th postnatal days. Movement sensitive mattress ("SCSB") measurements showed that zimeldine treatment suppressed active sleep throughout the whole treatment period, but DMI was more effective during the first 8 days than during the last treatment days. At the age of 70 days, the zimeldine-treated rats expressed a selective increase of some components of activity in the open field test, and the DMI rats had a higher defecation score compared to the controls. Furthermore, the zimeldine-rats responded with a decrease in ambulation in the open field to an alcohol dose which generally stimulates locomotion in rats. At the age of 3 months the DMI and zimeldine rats showed increased voluntary intake of 10% (v/v) alcohol. Measurement of brain monoamines revealed that the neonatal treatment with DMI or zimeldine interfered with the normal development and function of the monoamine neuronal systems: the concentrations of noradrenaline, dopamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), and their metabolites were altered in several brain regions. The results thus suggest that neonatal treatment with DMI or zimeldine suppresses active sleep and has an influence on later alcohol-related behavior, possibly due to a long-lasting defect in brain monoaminergic transmission.
Changes in pentobarbital hypnosis and hepatic metabolism in streptozotocin-diabetic mice]	The present study deals with the hypnotic effect of pentobarbital (Pento) in relation to its metabolism in hepatic microsomes in streptozotocin (STZ, 170 mg/kg, i.p.) injected mice. Liver weight (mg/10 g body wt.) of STZ-treated mice was larger than that of the controls throughout the experimental period. Although the shortening of sleeping time induced by Pento (60 mg/kg, i.p.) was always observed, Pento-metabolizing enzyme activity (by the method of Kato et al., 1964) increased in mice with diabetes for 2 and 4 weeks but decreased in mice with diabetes for 8 weeks. Induction following phenobarbital (100 mg/kg, s.c.) and inhibition by SKF 525-A (10 mg/kg, i.p.) of hepatic metabolizing enzyme were found in both control and mice with diabetes for 2, 4 and 8 weeks, but these were not definitely correlated to their hepatic Pento-metabolizing enzyme activities. STZ-induced hyperglycemia and shortening of sleeping time by Pento were completely prevented by the pretreatment with nicotinamide (500 mg/kg, i.p.). NPH-insulin injection partially decreased hyperglycemia in STZ-diabetic mice, but sleeping time by Pento was not significantly affected. These results suggest that the hyposensitivity to Pento in STZ-diabetic mice is partially related to an abnormality of metabolism in liver such as the hyperglycemic state.
Pharmacological activity of cytochrome C]	Cytochrome C (a single dose range of 1-200 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) does not possess the antihypoxic activity (altitude chamber, methemoglobinemia, circulatory hypoxia), decreases (in a dose of 50 mg/kg) diuresis in rats modifying diversely (depending on the dose used) the hypnotic effects of general anesthetics and the convulsant activity of corazol and arecoline.
Hypnotic action of pentobarbital in mice: a possible mechanism.	The effect of GABA receptor agonists (THIP and baclofen) on the hypnotic activity (loss of righting reflex and sleep time) of pentobarbital in mice was investigated. Combinations of either THIP-pentobarbital or baclofen-pentobarbital interacted synergistically by increasing hypnotic activity. The GABAa receptor antagonist, bicuculline, decreased the hypnotic effect of THIP-pentobarbital combinations but not that of baclofen-pentobarbital combinations. These results suggest that the hypnotic activity of pentobarbital involves GABAa receptor function.
Behavioral pharmacological action of Ca-4-(3,5-dihydroxy-3-methylpenthylamido) butyrate (mevalonic GABA, MV-GABA)]	The behavioral pharmacological effects of Ca-4-(3,5-dihydroxy-3-methylpenthylamido) butyrate (mevalonic-GABA, MV-GABA), a new GABA derivative were studied in comparison with those of Ca-hopantenate (HOPA) in mice. MV-GABA had no effect on the general behavior and electric shock-induced fighting behavior. The dosage of MV-GABA which caused locomotor hypoactivity produced an impairment of the rotarod performance. MV-GABA inhibited the hyperactivity induced by a dopamine (DA) agonist (methamphetamine) and acetylcholine (ACh) antagonists (scopolamine and atropine) at a dose which did not affect locomotor activity in normal mice. MV-GABA prolonged the pentobarbital-Na-induced sleeping time, and it prolonged the latencies until convulsion and death after administration of strychnine. MV-GABA and HOPA antagonized the electroconvulsive shock-induced amnesia in the passive avoidance response of mice. These results suggest that MV-GABA has effects on the central nervous systems, in particular, ACh and DA neural systems. The actions of MV-GABA were qualitatively similar to those of HOPA except for the effect on the DA neural system.
Comparative studies on the amino acid derivatives of indometacin.	A series of amino acid derivatives of indometacin (IND) was investigated in regard to their protein binding and prostaglandin synthetase inhibition in vitro, and to acute toxicity, anti-inflammatory, antiedemic, analgesic actions, and the influence on the central nervous system in vivo. In biochemical tests the compounds were several times less potent than IND. They differed among themselves in the respect of toxicity, which was always much lower than that of IND. Out of eight compounds investigated N-IND-glycine (K1) and N-IND-epsilon-aminocaproic acid (K5) exerted more favorable antiedemic and analgesic action than IND did. Both the derivatives only weakly inhibited the cotton-pellet granuloma formation. K1 acted similarly to IND in the arthritis test. K1, K5 and IND similarly irritated the gastric mucosa. A modification of IND structure by introduction of glycine or epsilon-aminocaproic acid resulted in two new anti-inflammatory agents of more favorable therapeutic index in the antiedemic and analgesic action and of much lower toxicity than the reference compound.
Effects of lithium carbonate on the clinical picture and the sleep of depressive patients.	5 patients with endogenous depression of uni- and bipolar type, classified according to sleep characteristics as normo- (1), hypo- (3) and hypersomniacs (1), were treated for 3 weeks with a daily dose of 900 mg lithium carbonate. Polygraphic sleep recordings were taken in every patient in the course of 3 placebo nights, 3 nights during therapy and 2 registrations after lithium carbonate was discontinued. Before therapy, a prolonged sleep and a shortened REM latency were observed, which were changed in the course of the treatment especially in the normosomniac patient. In the other examined sleep parameters (total sleep time, sleep efficiency, percentage of REM sleep, slow wave sleep), discrepancies among hypo-, hyper- and normosomniac patients were present. From the clinical point of view all patients showed an improvement subjectively and objectively measured by means of Hamilton and Beck questionnaires for depression. This study emphasizes the necessity of administering daily lithium carbonate doses higher than 900 mg because of only a mild therapeutic effect.
Psychopharmacology of midalcipran, 1-phenyl-1-diethyl-amino-carbonyl-2-aminomethylcyclopropane hydrochloride (F 2207), a new potential antidepressant.	Midalcipran is a new potential antidepressant selected for its equipotent inhibition of noradrenaline and serotonin uptake and its lack of effect at any postsynaptic receptor. In mice it antagonized the depressant effect of tetrabenazine with an oral ED50 value of 0.5 mg/kg as compared to 2.5 mg/kg for desipramine and 5.1 mg/kg for imipramine. Similar findings were obtained for the inhibition of yohimbine-induced mortality. In the "behavioral despair" test, in mice, immobility was significantly reduced by 10 mg/kg midalcipran whereas 20 mg/kg of desipramine was required for a similar effect. Midalcipran enhanced the behavioral changes induced by 1-tryptophan in the rat and antagonized p-chloramphetamine-induced hyperthermia in mice. In contrast to tricyclic antidepressants, midalcipran showed no anticholinergic, sedative or stimulant properties.
The effect of chronic felbamate administration on anticonvulsant activity and hepatic drug-metabolizing enzymes in mice and rats.	The possibility of tolerance development from chronic administration of felbamate (FBM) was investigated in mice and rats. Chronic administration (15 days) of FBM (150 mg/kg i.p.) in mice had no significant effect on either intravenous pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) seizure threshold or hexobarbital sleep time; however, hexobarbital sleep time was significantly increased after a single dose. Chronic administration (5-7 days) of FBM (48 or 95 mg/kg orally) in rats also had no significant effect on either maximal electroshock seizure activity or hexobarbital sleep time. Chronic administration of FBM at 238 mg/kg slightly decreased anti-subcutaneous PTZ activity in chronically treated rats (one of eight protected) as compared with those receiving only a single dose (three of eight protected), but there was no significant change in hexobarbital sleep time. Chronic treatment of rats for 7 days with 48 mg/kg had no significant effect on any hepatic parameters. However, 95 or 238 mg/kg of FBM significantly increased p-nitroanisole O-demethylase activity. It is concluded that the increased hexobarbital sleep time induced by an acute dose of FBM reflects the CNS-depressant effect of the substance. The increased p-nitroanisole O-demethylase activity observed after chronic administration may be indicative of some liver microsomal induction. Overall, FBM in doses ranging from 48 to 238 mg/kg appears to have minimal potential for tolerance development.
Effect of valproic acid on pharmacokinetics of active metabolites of cyclophosphamide in mice.	The effects of valproic acid (VPA) on pharmacokinetics of cyclophosphamide (CPM) alkylating metabolites were investigated in male BALB/c mice. The pharmacokinetics of CPM alkylating metabolites was found to be dose-dependent representing the decrease of formation and elimination rates of the metabolites. A nonlinear increase of area under blood concentration of CPM alkylating metabolites-time curve (AUC) occurred with increasing CPM dose of 100, 200, and 300 mg/kg body weight. The effects of VPA (100 mg/kg dose) coadministered with CPM were similar to those of the increase of the CPM dose in preventing the activation of CPM and the elimination of its alkylating metabolites. The delayed disposition of CPM alkylating metabolites resulted in a 1.5-fold increase (p less than 0.02) of AUC which was considered the most important pharmacokinetic parameter in the CPM therapy. VPA which was injected i.p. at a dose of 100, 200, or 300 mg/kg increased the pentobarbital induced-sleep time by 81, 138, or 192%, respectively. In order to assess the effect of VPA on drug metabolizing enzyme(s) activity in humans, the ratio of daily urinary 6-hydroxycortisol to 17-hydroxycorticosteroids, which can reflect cytochrome P-450 activity, was determined in 5 healthy volunteers. The ratio was rapidly and significantly decreased (p less than 0.05) and this reduction continued during VPA administration. These findings and those reported in the literature concerning CPM metabolism suggest that the delay of CPM alkylating metabolites elimination resulted in part from microsomal enzyme(s) inhibition by VPA.
Dose level effects of triazolam on sleep and response to a smoke detector alarm.	Thirty-six young adult, male subjects with sleep-onset insomnia were equally divided into placebo, 0.25 mg, and 0.5 mg triazolam groups to examine the effects of the hypnotic, with particular attention to dose level on efficacy, sleep stages, and awakening to a smoke detector alarm. On nights 1 and 4 of a five-consecutive-night protocol, a standard home smoke detector alarm was sounded during stage 2, 5 min after sleep onset, in slow wave sleep (SWS), and at the time of the early morning awakening. The alarm registered 78 dB SPL at the pillow. EEG arousal latency and reaction time to a button press were studied. Failure to awaken to three 1-min alarm presentations was scored as "no response." Both dose levels produced similar reductions in sleep latency, decreases in SWS, increases in stage 2, and increases in sleep efficiency. Both dose levels showed similar sedative effects to the smoke alarm. Fifty percent of triazolam subjects failed to awaken on night 1 during SWS, and EEG arousal and response latencies were significantly slowed. Some drug tolerance or sensitization to the alarm was seen by night 4. By morning, all subjects were easily awakened on both nights. The 0.25 mg dose is clearly an effective dose level for both sleep efficacy and sedative effects to outside noise, which in some instances could pose potential problems.
Sleep improvement in dogs after oral administration of mioflazine, a nucleoside transport inhibitor.	Mioflazine, a nucleoside transport inhibitor, was given PO to dogs at doses of 0.04-10 mg/kg. Sixteen hour polygraphic sleep recordings were made and analysis and sleep stage classification was done by computer. Mioflazine decreased wakefulness and increased slow wave sleep, but did not affect the latencies of either REM sleep or slow wave sleep. This increased sleep was due to an increase in the number of light and deep slow wave sleep epochs. The effect lasted for about 8 h. The decreased wakefulness and increased slow wave sleep could be antagonized by the adenosine antagonist caffeine (2.5 and 10 mg/kg, PO); however, there was not a pure antagonistic effect. It might be that the enhancement of slow wave sleep is due to an activation of brain adenosine receptors. This is the first report of a drug acting on adenosine that given orally improves sleep. Mioflazine might be the prototype of substances worth considering for the treatment of a variety of sleep disorders.
The drug treatment of depression in general practice: a comparison of nocte administration of trazodone with mianserin, dothiepin and amitriptyline.	This 6-week, double-blind, randomised, multicentre study was performed to assess the efficacy and tolerability of evening administration of 150 mg trazodone as an initial and maintenance therapy and to compare this regimen with recommended dosages of mianserin, dothiepin and amitriptyline in the treatment of depressed, adult, general practice patients. A total of 227 eligible depressed patients were recruited into the study by a panel of general practitioners. One hundred and twelve patients were randomised to receive trazodone therapy, 36 received mianserin, 35 received dothiepin and 44 received amitriptyline. Trazodone was administered as a single daily dose of 150 mg. Mianserin was given at a dose of 30 mg for the first 7 days followed by 60 mg daily for the remaining 5 weeks. Dothiepin and amitriptyline were both given at a dosage of 75 mg daily for the 1st week; this was then increased to 150 mg and 100 mg, respectively, for the final 5 weeks of the study. Efficacy of the four treatments was assessed using the modified Hamilton depression rating scale scores and by the Investigator's judgment of both the global severity and improvement of the condition. No significant differences were shown, using any measure of efficacy, between trazodone and any of the three comparator drugs. All treatments resulted in significant improvement in both Ham-D scores and global measures over the period of the study. Using a total side-effect score to assess the incidence and severity of adverse events and adjusting for baseline differences, the four treatments were found to differ.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A comparison of two oral dosage regimens of 150 mg trazodone in the treatment of depression in general practice.	This was a multicentre, double-blind, randomised, parallel-group study which was performed to assess the tolerance and efficacy of administration of 150 mg trazodone nocte as an initial and maintenance therapy compared with a 50 mg t.d.s. regimen. Particular attention was paid to the incidence of adverse events and to the effect of treatment on sleep over the 6-week period of the study. A total of 182 eligible, depressed patients were recruited into the study by a panel of 24 general practitioners. Eighty-seven patients were randomised to receive 50 mg trazodone three times a day and 95 to receive 150 mg trazodone as a single evening dose. Efficacy of the two treatment regimens was assessed using the modified Hamilton depression rating scale scores and by the Investigator's judgement of both the global severity and improvement of depression. The mean HAM-D scores of the two treatment groups were found not to be significantly different. There was strong evidence that the scores decreased over the 6-week trial period and that the rate of this decrease was different for the two study groups. For measures of both current global severity and improvement, no significant treatment differences were revealed. The changes in Hamilton scores occurring during the study period were found to be equal in the two treatment groups. Using a total side effects score to assess the incidence and severity of adverse events, the two dosing regimens were found not to be significantly different.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effects of trazodone on the sleep of depressed subjects--a polygraphic study.	The effects of 400-600 mg trazodone on the sleep patterns of ten depressed in-patients treated for 5 weeks were studied during the initial (days 1-3) and terminal (days 26-28) treatment periods. The sleep parameters were compared to those obtained from three sleep recordings performed just prior to the initiation of the treatment and after 2 adaptation nights at the end of a 2-week drug-free period. At the same time, the clinical evolution of patients was evaluated weekly using MADRS and Hamilton-Anxiety scales for anxiety-depression symptomatology and Spiegel and Norris sleep scales. Weekly blood samples were collected to measure plasma levels of trazodone and, at the end of the study, the elimination half-life at steady state was calculated by repeated measurements of plasma levels. Clinical improvement, as assessed by a reduction of more than 60% in MADRS scale scores, was accompanied by evidence of the definitely beneficial effects of trazodone on the disturbed sleep of these depressed patients. From the beginning of treatment, there was a hypnotic-like effect (increase in total duration of sleep and stage II, decrease in sleep latency and intrasleep awakenings). In addition, records at the end of the study showed an increase in delta sleep and an increase in REM latency, an effect classically associated with an antidepressant action. These particularly valuable effects of trazodone on sleep would suggest that this drug should especially be given in cases of depression with major insomnia.
The efficacy and residual effects of trazodone (150 mg nocte) and mianserin in the treatment of depressed general practice patients.	This 6-week, double-blind, randomised parallel group study was carried out to assess the efficacy and tolerability of 150 mg trazodone nocte and 30-60 mg mianserin nocte in the treatment of depression in general practice. Special emphasis was placed on the effect of treatment on psychomotor performance and sleep. A total of 39 suitable depressed patients were recruited into the study by one general practitioner. Nineteen of these were randomised to receive trazodone and 20 to receive 30 mg mianserin for the first 7 days and 60 mg for the remaining 5 weeks. Efficacy of the two therapies was assessed using the modified Hamilton depression rating scale scores and by the Investigator's judgement of both the global severity and improvement of the condition. For HAM-D scores no significant treatment differences were seen overall. There was, however, evidence that the trends in the scores over the 6-week trial period were different for the two therapies and that the scores changed significantly over this time. For current global severity and global improvement scores, there were no significant differences between treatments. The severity and improvement scores were found to change significantly over the 6 weeks of therapy in both of the two treatment groups. Psychomotor performance was assessed using the critical flicker fusion threshold test, the digit symbol substitution test and the choice reaction task.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Comparison of the short-acting benzodiazepines midazolam and triazolam with placebo.	The hypnotic effect of midazolam (Dormicum, 15 mg) and triazolam (0.5 mg) were compared with each other and with a placebo. Their effects on the quality of dreams and of morning awaking were also evaluated. 30 out-patients were included in a double-blind cross-over study for a period of 11 consecutive nights in which the order of the drugs was randomized according to the Latin squares method. The active substances and the placebo were each administered in 3-night blocks separated from each other by an intercalary placebo night. On waking each morning the patients answered a questionnaire concerning the previous night. Some of the responses were recorded on a visual analogue scale. Midazolam and triazolam significantly decreased the latency of onset of sleep and the number of nocturnal and premature morning awakenings. The patients' overall impression of their night was better under the active drugs than under placebo. However, there were no differences between placebo and the benzodiazepines as far as side effects or the quality of dreams and of morning awakening were concerned. The two drugs had an identical effect on sleep latency, but under midazolam the patients woke more frequently during the night and slightly earlier in the morning, suggesting that the duration of action is shorter. The intercalary placebo nights were better after 3 nights of placebo than after 3 nights of benzodiazepine. This rebound effect was more marked after triazolam than after midazolam. In conclusion the two benzodiazepines were both effective and well tolerated but midazolam is slightly shorter acting and has slightly less rebound effect than triazolam.
Substituting behavioural treatment for drugs in the treatment of insomnia: an exploratory study.	There is need to investigate directly the generalizability of psychological treatment effects to clinical populations of insomniacs; especially to those who are chronic hypnotic users and are drug-dependent. This paper present two methodological models, based upon the pharmacological literature, which permit the selection of such subjects for research studies. The usefulness of the models is discussed with reference to a preliminary investigation based on 10 cases, and recommendations are made both for further research and clinical practice.
Lithium carbonate: effects on sleep patterns of normal and depressed subjects and its use in sleep-wake pathology.	The effects of lithium carbonate on sleep patterns have been investigated both acutely in normal and depressed subjects and chronically in depressed subjects. In normal subjects receiving lithium for two weeks total sleep time did not vary, REM sleep decreased and REM sleep latency increased. In depressed subjects, either on short therm therapy or on long term therapy stages 3 and 4 increased, REM sleep decreased, REM latency increased and REM activity/time spent asleep (an index of REM intensity per minute of sleep) decreased. Plasma lithium levels were negatively correlated with REM sleep percentage and positively correlated with REM sleep latency. Besides, it has been shown in one paper that short term therapy with lithium caused small but significant delays in the sleep-wake circadian rhythm. These effects are of interest in view of polygraphic sleep abnormalities found in affective disorders and possible circadian disturbances accounting for these abnormalities. Indeed lithium might act in correcting spezial sleep abnormalities and/or circadian disturbances. In addition to its predominant use for the prophylaxis of recurrent mania and depression, lithium carbonate has been proposed and tried in the prophylactic treatment of abnormally prolonged sleep episodes featuring the Kleine-Levin syndrome.
Calcium differentially alters behavioral and electrophysiological responses to ethanol in selectively bred mouse lines.	Sensitivity to the hypnotic action of ethanol has been found to increase in SS/Ibg (SS) but not in LS/Ibg (LS) mice after intracerebroventricular (icv) administration of calcium. In the present investigation, a correlation was found between calcium-induced changes in behavioral sensitivity and in the sensitivity of cerebellar Purkinje neurons to the depressant effects of locally applied ethanol. Cerebellar Purkinje neuron sensitivity was measured as the dose of ethanol pressure ejected from a multibarreled micropipette required to produce a 50% depression of spontaneous firing rate of single neurons. Administration of 0.2-0.4 mumol calcium chloride into the lateral ventricle of the brain increased the sensitivity of SS but not LS mice to the hypnotic behavioral effect of systemically administered ethanol. Similarly, Purkinje neuron sensitivity to locally applied ethanol was also enhanced in SS but not in LS mice 15 min following administration of calcium (0.25 mumol) icv. Furthermore, locally applied ethanol was more effective in depressing spontaneous Purkinje neuron discharge in SS mice when a 1 mM calcium solution was concomitantly pressure ejected with ethanol from the micropipette. Magnesium chloride did not mimic the effects of calcium on either behavioral or electrophysiological effects of ethanol, suggesting that the action of calcium is not a nonspecific effect of divalent cations. These data suggest that calcium-dependent processes may be involved in behavioral and electrophysiological effects associated with ethanol intoxication. Further research will be required to determine if the genetically selected difference in ethanol sensitivity expressed in LS and SS mice is regulated by calcium mechanisms.
Genetic correlation of ethanol-induced ataxia and cerebellar Purkinje neuron depression among inbred strains and selected lines of rats.	In the present study, we compared phenotypic differences in behavioral and neurophysiological responses to acute ethanol administration among six inbred rat strains. Genetic variation was found both for ataxia, as measured by loss of righting response (sleep time) after a hypnotic dose of ethanol, and for the depressant action of ethanol on the spontaneous discharge of cerebellar Purkinje neurons. Results from an analysis of covariance of these phenotypes, measured among the inbred strains, provided strong evidence for a high genetic correlation between sleep time and inhibition of cerebellar Purkinje neuron discharge in response to acute ethanol administration. However, ethanol metabolism was also found to correlate with the behavioral sensitivity of rats to ethanol. Preliminary data from the third generation of replicate lines of rats currently being selectively bred for high and low acute sensitivity to ethanol shows a trend toward divergence of both ethanol sleep time and neuronal sensitivity to acute ethanol. The conclusion from these data supports the hypothesis that the cerebellum is an important locus of ethanol action, and suggests that neuronal sensitivity to ethanol will continue to diverge between these rat lines as selection for the sleep time phenotype progresses.
Ontogenetic development of etomidate action in rats.	Action of etomidate was studied in 219 albino rats 7, 12, 18, 25 days old and adult. Etomidate at the dose of 20 mg/kg i.p. led to a loss of the righting reflex in all age groups. Sleeping time increased with decreasing age up to the 12th day. Seven-day-old rat pups exhibited short sleeping time, approximately at the level of adult animals. Etomidate can be used for general anaesthesia even in young animals but the quantitative differences in its efficacy have to be taken into account.
Alteration of sleep in rabbits by Staphylococcus aureus infection.	Abundant evidence suggests that sleep might be altered during infectious disease, although the relationship between sleep and infectious disease has never been examined systematically. To address this issue, we determined the effects of Staphylococcus aureus infection on rabbit sleep. Rabbits inoculated intravenously with S. aureus demonstrated the expected physiological changes consistent with a state of infectious disease (e.g., lymphopenia, neutrophilia, and fever), as well as time-dependent changes in sleep patterns. The sleep changes were characterized initially by increases in (i) the time spent in slow-wave sleep, (ii) the electroencephalographic slow-wave amplitudes during slow-wave sleep, and (iii) the duration of individual bouts of slow-wave sleep. At 20 to 36 h after inoculation, sleep responses fell to levels below corresponding control values for 6 to 12 h. At 6 to 10 h after inoculation, rapid-eye-movement sleep was suppressed and remained at low levels throughout the remainder of the 48-h recording period. These effects of bacterial infection on sleep were attenuated by antibiotic (cephalothin) therapy. Inoculation with killed bacteria produced similar changes in sleep and other physiological parameters, although significantly higher numbers of organisms were required to produce equivalent responses. We postulate that changes in sleep may represent an adaptive response of the host to infectious disease.
Effects of a-fluoromethylhistidine on sleep and wakefulness in the rat. Short note.	The histamine synthesis inhibitor a-fluoromethylhistidine (a-FMH, 50 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly reduced wakefulness (W) and light sleep and increased slow wave sleep (SWS) and REM sleep during the light period in rats housed under 12 h light/12 h dark conditions (12L/12D). When animals were housed under 16 h light/8 h dark (16L/8D) they remained awake for a longer period of time during the dark as compared to the 12L/12D lighting cycle. Under this condition a-FMH 50 mg/kg significantly decreased W and increased SWS. Our results tend to indicate that histamine intervenes in sleep-wakefulness regulation. In addition, histamine could be partly involved in the abnormally increased incidence of W observed during the dark in rats housed under 16L/8D conditions.
Effect of chlorpromazine on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of pentobarbital in rats.	The effects of chlorpromazine (4 mg/kg i.v.) on the disposition and duration of loss of the righting reflex (LRR, sleeping time) produced by intravenous pentobarbital (5 to 50 mg/kg) were studied in rats. The plasma concentration time profile following i.v. administration of pentobarbital alone was reasonably well described by a three compartment open model with Michaelis-Menten type elimination kinetics. The brain to plasma concentration ratio of pentobarbital was 1.5 and was almost constant during the experiment. Coadministration of chlorpromazine significantly reduced the systemic clearance of pentobarbital. Since pentobarbital is eliminated from the body mainly by hepatic metabolism, reduction of systemic clearance reflects the reduction of hepatic metabolism of pentobarbital. The hepatic intrinsic clearance of pentobarbital was decreased from 0.438 to 0.331 l/h by chlorpromazine coadministration. Hepatic blood flow was also decreased significantly, whereas the plasma protein binding and the distribution to the red blood cell were not appreciably altered. The profile of duration of LRR versus the logarithm of the dose of pentobarbital was linear over a 20 to 70 mg/kg dose range irrespective of chlorpromazine coadministration. The awakening plasma and brain concentrations of pentobarbital without chlorpromazine were estimated as 12.4 micrograms/ml and 17.8 micrograms/g, respectively. The sleeping time versus the logarithm of pentobarbital dose under chlorpromazine coadministration was shifted to the left and the slope of the linear portion was also decreased. There was no single value of awakening plasma or brain concentration. Plasma concentration at the end of the action decreased with decreasing dose. These facts indicated that the sensitivity of the central nervous system to pentobarbital might be increased by chlorpromazine. In conclusion, chlorpromazine inhibited the hepatic metabolism of pentobarbital, resulting in significant increases in plasma and brain concentrations. However, this pharmacokinetic change could not fully explain the pharmacodynamic alternation.
The pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic interaction of pentobarbital and chlorpromazine in rats.	The effect of chlorpromazine on the duration of loss of righting reflex (LRR, sleeping time) of pentobarbital and vice versa in a various dosage ranges were studied in rats. The logarithm of the dose versus sleeping time profile of pentobarbital was shifted to the left and the slope of the profile was decreased as the dose of chlorpromazine was increased. The logarithm of chlorpromazine dose versus duration of LRR during pentobarbital coadministration also showed a distinct dose-dependent profile. However, chlorpromazine itself showed ambiguous duration of LRR because the terminal point of the pharmacologic effect, i.e., the recovery of the righting reflex (RRR, the awakening time), was often difficult to determine clearly. The isobolographic method was introduced to describe the drug interaction of pentobarbital and chlorpromazine quantitatively. Assuming that the sites of action of chlorpromazine and pentobarbital were in the brain, the brain concentrations of pentobarbital at RRR were plotted against the brain concentration of chlorpromazine at RRR. The plots showed a hyperbola-like curve, indicating that there was a supra-additive interaction. In order to clarify the relationship between brain concentrations of the two drugs at RRR, a theoretical consideration was made under the following assumptions: (1) chlorpromazine and pentobarbital have a common central depressant effect, (2) the concentration-effect relationship is described by Hill's equation and (3) the mode of interaction of these drugs is simple additive. The results indicated that the isobolographic plot of pentobarbital and chlorpromazine was reasonably described by the theory and that chlorpromazine enhanced the effect of pentobarbital at least in an additive manner.
Effect of tetrachlorophthalic anhydride on hepatic microsomal metabolism in rats and mice.	The capacity for induction of microsomal metabolic enzymes by tetrachlorophthalic anhydride (TCPA) was evaluated in male Sprague-Dawley rats and male CD-1 mice. The rats were orally dosed for 7 d with TCPA suspended in corn oil at 25, 100, 250, or 500 mg/kg. Following this treatment a dose-dependent reduction in the zoxazolamine paralysis time occurred over the dose range 100-500 mg/kg in the rat. No effect on the hexobarbital sleep time was observed at any test level. TCPA was found to produce statistically significant increases in hepatic aminopyrine N-demethylase, aniline hydroxylase, and cytochrome P-450 in the rat at 500 mg per kg. In addition statistically significant increases were seen in aniline hydroxylase and cytochrome P-450 at 25 mg/kg. Mice were orally dosed with TCPA for 7 d at 250, 500, or 1000 mg/kg. There was no effect in the zoxazolamine paralysis time or the hexobarbital sleep time in this species. Hepatic microsomal enzyme levels were not measured in the mouse. These results suggest that following oral dosage TCPA is a weak inducer of microsomal enzymes in the rat. A similar effect was not observed in the mouse for the parameters tested.
Attenuation of a radiation-induced conditioned taste aversion after the development of ethanol tolerance.	An attempt to reduce a radiation-induced conditioned taste aversion (CTA) was undertaken by rendering animals tolerant to ethanol. Ethanol tolerance, developed over 5 days, was sufficient to block a radiation-induced taste aversion, as well as an ethanol-induced CTA. Several intermittent doses of ethanol, which did not induce tolerance but removed the novelty of the conditioning stimulus, blocked an ethanol-induced CTA but not the radiation-induced CTA. A CTA induced by doses of radiation up to 500 rads was attenuated. These data suggest that radioprotection developing in association with ethanol tolerance is a result of a physiological response to the chronic presence of ethanol not to the ethanol itself.
Pharmacological investigations on Achyrocline satureioides (LAM.) DC., Compositae.	Achyrocline satureioides (Lam.) DC. inflorescences have been used as remedies in folk medicine for the treatment of a variety of human ailments, particularly those of the gastrointestinal tract. Different extracts of inflorescences have been tested for anti-inflammatory, analgesic, antispasmodic, constipating and sedative activities. The aqueous extracts (maceration and decoction) and ethanolic macerate exhibited an inhibition of the carrageenan-induced rat paw oedema at a dose range of 75-500 mg kg-1 i.p., and also showed analgesic effect with the acetic acid-induced writhing test in mice. The gastrointestinal propulsion of a charcoal suspension was not affected significantly by any extract, at a dose of 200 mg kg-1 p.o., in mice. The aqueous decoction increased pentobarbital-induced sleeping time, at doses of 200 and 500 mg kg-1 i.p. and p.o., in mice. The ethanolic macerate inhibited contractions induced by acetylcholine, histamine, noradrenaline and barium chloride in four different smooth muscle tissues. The antispasmodic and anti-inflammatory activities were reproduced with quercetin, luteolin and quercetin 3-methyl ether, flavonoids that have been isolated from this plant. A partial evaluation of the toxicity of the extracts was also performed. The pharmacological effects assayed are discussed in relation to the chemical constituents of this plant and its popular use in gastrointestinal disturbances, and inflammatory conditions could be related to the presence of the flavonoids.
Muramyl dipeptide-induced sleep and fever: effects of ambient temperature and time of injections.	Sleep-promoting factors isolated from rabbit brain and human urine enhance slow-wave sleep (SWS) when administered to rabbits and other mammalian species. These substances were identified as muramyl peptides (MPs). A simple synthetic chemical analogue to these substances, N-acetylmuramyl-L-alanyl-D-isoglutamine (or MDP for muramyl dipeptide), was also found to enhance SWS. MDP is also pyrogenic and can alter rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. However, the effects of MDP on rabbit REM sleep and the relationship between thermoregulation and MDP-altered sleep have not been investigated. We tested, therefore, MDP in rabbits. We found that 1) intracerebroventricular administration of 125 pmol of MDP reduced REM sleep time from 10 +/- 3% of total recording time after vehicle to 4 +/- 3%; 2) a stereoisomer of MDP, N-acetylmuramyl-D-alanyl-D-isoglutamine, failed to have any effects on the sleep and temperature parameters measured; 3) acute elevation of ambient temperature from 21 to 27 degrees C enhanced SWS (37 +/- 3-55 +/- 3%) but not REM sleep; 4) at 27 degrees C MDP further enhanced SWS to 67 +/- 3% and its REM sleep suppression effect persisted; and 5) intravenously injected MDP had greater effects on body temperature during light hours than if administered during dark hours. We conclude that MDP reduces REM sleep in rabbits, that its effects on thermoregulatory processes depend on the time of injection, and that the effects of the thermoregulatory process on sleep are independent of, in part, the effects of MDP on sleep.
Pharmacology of WEB 1881-FU, a central cholinergic agent, which enhances cognition and cerebral metabolism.	The pharmacological effects of the novel compound WEB 1881 FU (4-amino-methyl-1-benzyl-pyrrolidine-2-one-fumarate) were investigated. The tests performed indicate that the compound has cytoprotective as well as metabolism and cognition enhancing and central cholinomimetic properties. The nootropic effects in all tests were more pronounced than those of piracetam, while the central cholinomimetic effects were generally weaker than those of directly acting cholinomimetic agents. However, the typical peripheral cholinergic side effects were not observed. From the results we believe that the stimulating effect of WEB 1881 FU upon the central cholinergic system is modulatory rather than direct. The combination of nootropic and cholinomimetic properties appears favorable for treatment of brain dysfunction in the elderly. Side effects are less serious than with other known cholinomimetics.
Studies on the nonspecific central nervous system effects of the novel antitussive compound vadocaine hydrochloride.	Vadocaine hydrochloride (2',4'-dimethyl-6'-methoxy-3-(2-methylpiperidyl) propionanilide hydrochloride, OR K-242-HCl; INN: vadocaine) is a novel antitussive compound which is effective in several animal models at doses of 2.5-6 mg/kg. It has both central and peripheral local anaesthetizing properties. The present studies were aimed at exploring the specificity of the central antitussive activity of vadocaine. Vadocaine administered in doses of 25 and 50 mg/kg was not found to be effective in any of a series of experiments, although some antinociceptive activity was shown in the hotplate test and in the writhing test at a dose of 75 mg/kg. Some deteriorative activity was noted at a dose of 75 mg/kg in tests measuring motor coordination (rotarod) and spontaneous motility. This high dose of vadocaine did not affect pentobarbital sodium-induced sleeping time nor protect the animal from pentetrazole-induced convulsions. As expected, codeine phosphate was found to be a more potent antinociceptive drug than vadocaine, also enhancing spontaneous motility. Both the control anaesthetics benzonatate and lidocaine proved rather ineffective. Benzonatate (50 mg/kg) did not alter any of the results, whereas lidocaine (50 mg/kg) caused a decrease in the number of writhings. In conclusion, vadocaine can be said to initiate minor deterioration of the central nervous system only at doses about 10 times higher than those which show antitussive activity. Acute lethal doses are still 2 to 5 times higher. The central antitussive action of vadocaine can therefore be considered fairly specific.
Cadmium exposure results in decreased responsiveness to ethanol.	Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were maintained on an ad lib diet containing 100 ppm cadmium (Group Cadmium-Diet) or a control diet with no added cadmium. On Day 61, all animals (N = 10/group) were challenged with a single hypnotic dose of ethanol (3.5 g/kg IP), prepared from a 20% v/v solution of tap water and a stock solution of 95% ethanol. The latency from the time of the injection until the loss of the righting reflex was recorded, as well as the latency for recovery of the reflex. The results showed a nonsignificant trend for animals exposed to cadmium to lose the righting reflex less rapidly than controls, and Cadmium-Diet animals regained the righting reflex significantly more rapidly than controls. These findings suggest that the pharmacologic effectiveness of ethanol is altered by chronic exposure to dietary cadmium. The implications of these data for other studies of cadmium/ethanol interactions are discussed.
Effects of serotonin and noradrenaline uptake blockers on wakefulness and sleep in cats.	The aim of the study was to examine the role of serotonergic (5-HT) and noradrenergic mechanisms in the regulation of wakefulness and sleep. For this purpose, adult cats with implanted electrodes for EEG, EOG and EMG were exposed to the 5-HT uptake blocker citalopram (0.1, 0.5 and 5.0 mg/kg intraperitoneally) and the noradrenaline uptake blocker prindamine (5 mg/kg intraperitoneally) at the start of continuous 16-hour sleep-wake recordings. Citalopram increased deep slow wave sleep and decreased REMS. Also prindamine decreased REMS but initially increased the proportion of time spent in the state of active wakefulness. Furthermore, to examine the interactions between 5-HT-nergic and noradrenergic mechanisms in the regulation of sleep, the administration of citalopram was preceded by intraperitoneal injections of phentolamine (10 mg/kg), an alpha-antagonist, and propranolol (5 mg/kg), a beta-antagonist. Phentolamine was totally ineffective against citalopram whereas propranolol partially counteracted the effects of citalopram on sleep. Prindamine was combined with the alpha-antagonists yohimbine (1 mg/kg), phentolamine (10 mg/kg) and prazosin (1 mg/kg) or with the beta-antagonist propranolol (5 mg/kg). Yohimbine was without any effect on REMS, phentolamine partly antagonized prindamine-induced decrease in the percentage of REMS, and prazosin only prolonged REMS latency and reduced deep SWS as well. Propranolol partially antagonized the prindamine-induced initial increase in active wakefulness time.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Enhancement of slow-wave sleep by endotoxin and lipid A.	Some muramyl peptides derived from bacterial peptidoglycan enhance slow-wave sleep (SWS). The purpose of this study was to test whether another cell wall component, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and its lipid A moiety also have an effect on sleep. When injected intravenously, both LPS and lipid A enhanced the duration of SWS, increased electroencephalogram delta-wave amplitudes, suppressed rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, and induced biphasic fevers. The effects of intravenously administered lipid A and LPS on SWS were present primarily during the first 3 h postinjection. Intraventricular lipid A administration enhanced SWS, did not suppress REM, and induced a monophasic fever; the SWS effect had a 3-h latency, whereas temperature started to rise during the second hour. Regardless of the route of administration, within the dose range used here, sleep was normal by the following criteria: sleep was episodic, animals could be easily aroused, and brain temperature, although elevated to "febrile" levels, continued to fluctuate during sleep-state transitions indistinguishably from control conditions. We conclude that LPS and lipid A are capable of modulating sleep.
Dose determinants of rebound insomnia.	A polysomnographic assessment in healthy normal sleepers of possible dose relations for rebound insomnia was conducted. As an additional measure of rebound the study included a direct test of sleep/wake tendency during the night of drug discontinuation. Twelve, healthy men (21-30 years) each received placebo, 0.25 mg and 0.50 mg triazolam for 6 consecutive nights followed by a discontinuation night and 14 nights of recovery at home. The three conditions were presented, double-blind, in a latin square design. On night 6 of drug administration both doses increased total sleep time compared to placebo, but 0.50 mg did not improve sleep beyond 0.25 mg. On drug discontinuation (night 7) wake time over the 8 h recording and sleep latency after an experimental awakening (02.30 h) were increased with 0.50 mg compared to placebo and 0.25 mg. On these measures of rebound 0.25 mg did not differ from placebo. Thus rebound insomnia occurred only at a dose (0.50 mg) which produced no additional hypnotic efficacy in these normal sleepers. Whether tests of sleep/wake tendency make a useful measure of rebound insomnia needs further clarification.
Comparison of short and long half-life benzodiazepine hypnotics: triazolam and quazepam.	Two benzodiazepine hypnotics, triazolam, 0.25 mg, with a short elimination t1/2, and quazepam, 15 mg, with a long t1/2, were evaluated in 22-night sleep laboratory studies. Quazepam improved sleep significantly during both short- and intermediate-term use. Daytime sleepiness, which decreased with continued use, was the side effect most often associated with quazepam dosing. In contrast, triazolam dosing did not significantly improve any of the major sleep efficiency parameters, and there was a rapid development of tolerance for the drug's slight initial effectiveness. In addition, there were a number of behavioral side effects including amnesia, confusion, and disinhibition. Withdrawal of triazolam was associated with sleep and mood disturbances (rebound insomnia and rebound anxiety), whereas quazepam exerted carryover effectiveness. Thus the data in this study show that the 0.25 mg dose of triazolam, which is being prescribed increasingly, has a profile of side effects that is similar to that of the 0.5 mg dose.
Tryptophan in the treatment of insomnia in hospitalized psychiatric patients]	In 21 psychiatric in-patients, the efficacy of tryptophan at the dose of 250 and 500 mgr, with or without sodium salicylate, has been evaluated with respect to placebo, according to a double-blind randomized design. The results show that none of the treatment conditions induced significant shortening of sleep latency.
Effect of phentolamine on wakefulness and sleep during recovery from REM sleep deprivation in cats.	Adult cats with permanent EEG, EMG, EOG, and PGO electrodes were recorded for 24 hours started at the end of a 72-hour REMS deprivation induced by a platform-water-tank procedure and after receiving IP injections of phentolamine (20 mg/kg) or saline. Exposure of the cats to the platform-REMS deprivation procedure increased the percentage of REMS during the subsequent 24 hours. Phentolamine interacted with the platform REMS deprivation causing the peak of REMS percentage to occur during recovery hours 5-12. These findings indicate that blockade of alpha-receptors has an additive effect on platform-REMS deprivation induced REMS rebound in cats.
The effect of chronic ethanol consumption on the fine structure of the CA1 stratum oriens in short-sleep and long-sleep mice: short-term and long-term exposure.	The effect of chronic ethanol administration on the fine structure of the hippocampal CA1 stratum oriens was examined in two lines of mice selectively bred for their differential sensitivity to acute ethanol exposure (long-sleep, LS and short-sleep, SS mice). Two experiments were performed. In the first experiment, mice received a liquid diet for 3 weeks with the final amount of ethanol being 35% ethanol-derived calories. In the second experiment, mice received 23.5% ethanol-derived calories for 3 months. Quantitative electron microscopy of the dendritic spines and synaptic appositions in the stratum oriens of CA1 revealed an interaction between diet and line of mice, but only in the 3-month exposure condition. This difference was due to a significant decrease in the density of spines and synaptic appositions in the LS mice receiving ethanol. Additionally, baseline differences between lines indicate that the lines are differing in the density of spine synapses in the absence of ethanol treatment. The possible interaction between acute sensitivity to ethanol and differences in fine structure are examined.
Effect of various monoamine oxidase inhibitors on the structure of the sleep-wakefulness cycle of the cat]	The effect of some monoamine oxidase inhibitors (phenelzine, transamine, nialamide) on the structure of the cat sleep--wakefulness cycle involved an increase of slow-wave sleep at the expense of totally inhibited REM sleep and substantial reduction of wakefulness. Following this effect, selective rebound of wakefulness occurred against the background of total or partial absence of REM sleep. The partial deprivation of wakefulness induced with monoamine oxidase inhibitors seem to entail an accumulation of a specific need in the given physiological state, the gratification of which is effected through its rebound in the post-deprivation cycle.
Study of delta sleep-inducing peptide efficacy in improving sleep on short-term administration to chronic insomniacs.	The effects of delta sleep-inducing peptide (DSIP), on the sleep cycle of insomniac patients were assessed by means of polysomnographic recordings. DSIP in a dose of 25 nmol/kg or a placebo was administered i.v. during four nights using a double-blind crossover design. The number of nocturnal awakenings, non-rapid-eye-movement (NREM) sleep latency, total waking time and waking time after sleep onset were decreased under DSIP treatment, but no significant differences were found in comparison to baseline or to double-blind placebo nights. Total sleep time and NREM sleep time were increased by the peptide. Their increase was related to increases in stage 2, while stage 1, slow wave sleep (stages 3 and 4) and rapid-eye-movement sleep were not modified. For NREM sleep time and stage 2 sleep differences between DSIP and a placebo were significant, but the same differences existed already for the baseline values. It can be concluded that sleep improvement under DSIP treatment is of little clinical significance.
Studies on the interaction between ethanol and amfonelic acid.	Amfonelic acid (AFA), a non-amphetamine central stimulant dose-dependently reduced the hypnotic effect of ethanol in C57B1/6 mice. It did not enhance the elimination of ethanol. Amfonelic acid failed to modify the duration of pentobarbitone-induced hypnosis or the ethanol-induced hypothermia in these animals. Combined treatment with amfonelic acid and a lipophilic alpha 1-adrenoceptor agonist was not more effective than amfonelic acid alone in blocking ethanol hypnosis. The stimulation of locomotor activity by amfonelic acid in C57B1/6 mice was more sensitive to the blocking effect of ethanol than stimulation induced by d-amphetamine. The blocking effect of amfonelic acid, but not that of d-amphetamine, on the effects of ethanol developed tolerance. In pimozide-pretreated mice, amfonelic acid failed to reduce the ethanol-induced hypnosis. Hence it appears that dopamine (DA) released by amfonelic acid is responsible for its antagonism of ethanol. However, though amfonelic acid acted as a strong releaser of DA in Swiss-Webster, CD-1, DBA-2 and BALB/c mice, in these strains it failed to reduce the effect of ethanol. Moreover, methylphenidate, a dopaminergic stimulant, which acts by a mechanism similar to that of amfonelic acid was not effective in reducing the hypnotic effect of ethanol in C57B1/6 mice. For these reasons, additional mechanisms may have to be considered to explain this strain-dependent effect of amfonelic acid.
Discovery and anticonvulsant activity of the potent metabolic inhibitor 4-amino-N-(2,6-dimethylphenyl)-3,5-dimethylbenzamide.	Compound 2 [4-amino-N-(2,6-dimethylphenyl)benzamide] is an effective anticonvulsant in several animal models. For example, following oral administration to mice, it antagonized maximal electroshock (MES) induced seizures with an ED50 of 1.7 mg/kg. During drug disposition studies with 2, we found that it was rapidly metabolized by N-acetylation. Thirty minutes after oral administration of 1.7 mg/kg of 2 to mice, plasma concentrations of parent drug and the N-acetyl metabolite 5 were 1.09 and 0.41 microgram/mL, respectively. Six hours postadministration the concentrations were 0.23 and 0.22 microgram/mL, respectively. In order to sterically preclude or diminish the rate of metabolic N-acetylation, we synthesized analogues of 2 possessing either one (3) or two (4) methyl groups ortho to the 4-amino substituent. Both compounds antagonized MES-induced seizures after administration to mice; oral ED50 values for 3 and 4 were 3.5 and 5.6 mg/kg, respectively. Compound 3 was rapidly metabolized by N-acetylation. However, 4 provided exceptionally high and long-lived plasma concentrations of parent drug; no N-acetyl metabolite could be detected. While 2 and 3 had no pharmacologically relevant effects on hexobarbital-induced sleeping time in mice, 4 was a potent, dose-dependent potentiator of sleeping time. Oral administration of 375 micrograms/kg led to a 61% increase in sleeping time relative to control values. Thus, 4 represents one of the most potent potentiators of hexobarbital-induced sleeping time described to date.
Effect of muscimol on ethanol-induced central nervous system depression.	In male Sprague-Dawley rats acute ethanol (1.0 and 2.0 g/kg) produced impairment of motor coordination and induced hypnosis (4.0 g/kg). Muscimol (1.25 mg/kg, IP) prior to ethanol administration enhanced motor impairment as measured by the aerial righting reflex. The rate of ethanol disappearance from the blood was unaltered by muscimol. Functional tolerance to the effect of ethanol on sleep time was produced by a 24 hr ethanol inhalation procedure. Animals tested 48 hr after ethanol inhalation exhibited a reduced sleep time from ethanol (4.0 g/kg). Muscimol (1.75 mg/kg) was administered along with ethanol 48 hr following 1 day of ethanol inhalation. Although the animals exhibited tolerance to ethanol-induced hypnosis, they did not manifest tolerance to the effect of muscimol.
Mechanism of N,N'-diallylpentobarbital potentiation of pentobarbital-induced sleep in mice.	Potentiation mechanism of pentobarbital (PB)-induced sleep by N,N'-diallylpentobarbital (DAPB) was studied in mice. DAPB significantly prolonged the PB [40 mg/kg, intraperitoneal (i.p.)]-induced sleeping time by two routes of administration [intravenous (i.v.) and intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.)], nevertheless DAPB alone was devoid of hypnotic activity even by both routes of administration (i.v. and i.c.v.). In addition, DAPB (160 and 320 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly prolonged the sleeping time induced by i.c.v. injection of PB (200 micrograms/mouse). The brain PB half-life (T1/2) of DAPB (80 mg/kg, i.p.) treated group (9.0 h) was 13-fold longer than that of the control (0.7 h). The plasma PB half-life (T1/2) of DAPB treated group (15.2 h) was longer than that of the control (0.6 h). Moreover, DAPB significantly decreased the activities of ethylmorphine (EM) N-demethylase and aniline hydroxylase, and the content of cytochrome P-450 in mouse liver microsomes. The inhibitory effect of DAPB (40 mg/kg, i.p.) on the mouse hepatic drug-metabolizing enzymes was shown til 6 h after administration. DAPB exhibited non-competitive inhibition on the EM N-demethylase activity in vitro. These results indicate that DAPB prolongs the PB-induced sleeping time by both its depressant action to the central nervous system (CNS) and inhibitory effect on the hepatic drug-metabolizing enzymes.
Slow wave sleep elevations after body heating: proximity to sleep and effects of aspirin.	On three different occasions, six healthy young adult subjects ahd their body temperatures raised by an average of 2.0 degrees C for 30 min while sitting in baths of warm water. This was done once at 1700 h and on two occasions at 2100 h, once after the subjects had taken aspirin and once after a placebo. Nighttime sleep was recorded after each experimental condition and for baseline nights following nil heating. Records were scored both visually and by an automated sleep stager. Electroencephalographic (EEG) power was computed over the night. Results from the automated scoring were very similar to those of the visual method. While the early bath caused no changes in sleep, the late bath + placebo resulted in significant rises in stage 4 sleep and slow wave sleep (SWS) and significant falls in sleep onset and in REM sleep. Aspirin mostly counteracted these effects and, in particular, left stage 4 sleep and SWS at baseline levels. EEG power was significantly increased only after the late bath plus placebo, supporting the SWS outcome. These findings were assessed in light of other comparable results from our laboratory. It seems that as the time of the day of heating recedes from nighttime sleep, a larger "dose" of heating is required to produce the same effect.
Differential effects of hydrocortisone, fluocortolone, and aldosterone on nocturnal sleep in humans.	Previous experiments have suggested that sleep processes are sensitive to influences of corticosteroids. The present experiment was designed to compare effects of three different corticosteroids on human sleep: fluocortolone (a synthetic pure glucocorticoid), cortisol which possesses glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid activity, and aldosterone (the major mineralocorticoid). Ten male adult subjects were tested in four experimental nights according to a double-blind latin-square design under conditions of either 1.0 mg of aldosterone, 20 mg of fluocortolone, 80 mg of hydrocortisone, or placebo. Substances were administered orally (fluocortolone, 23.00 h) or infused iv throughout the night (hydrocortisone, aldosterone) starting at 23.00 h. Hydrocortisone and fluocortolone induced a substantial reduction of rapid eye movement sleep. Hydrocortisone increased slow wave sleep activity. No such effect was observed after fluocortolone. Effects on sleep processes of aldosterone, in general, seemed to be neglegible. The results demonstrate differential effects of synthetic glucocorticoid, cortisol, and aldosterone on sleep in humans, which may be attributed to the heterogeneity of corticosteroid receptors in the brain.
Enhancement of quiet sleep in rabbit neonates by muramyl dipeptide.	Muramyl peptides that induce excess slow-wave sleep have been isolated from urine and brain. A synthetic analogue to those substances, muramyl dipeptide (MDP, N-acetylmuramyl-L-alanyl-D-isoglutamine), was found to induce prolonged increases in slow-wave sleep and to increase electroencephalographic (EEG) delta-wave activity. MDP is also pyrogenic, although this activity can be separated from its somnogenic activity. To further investigate the somnogenic actions of MDP, neonatal rabbits were used in the present study. Intraperitoneal injection of 100 micrograms/kg MDP induced differential somnogenic and pyrogenic effects; from postnatal days 7-9, MDP increased duration of quiet sleep (QS, the precursor of adult slow-wave sleep) and decreased active sleep (AS) as judged by behavioral criteria. These animals were not febrile during the period of enhanced QS, nor did MDP alter EEG delta-wave activity at this age. From postnatal days 10-15, MDP induced prolonged (6 h) increases in duration of QS; both behavioral and EEG criteria were used at this age to determine duration of QS and AS. Maximum MDP-induced effects occurred during the 2nd h, with a parallel increase in amplitudes of EEG delta-wave activity. At this age, MDP also elicited monophasic fevers and inhibition of AS, with maximum effects observed during hours 3-4 postinjection. After postnatal day 16, MDP-induced somnogenic and febrile responses were similar to those observed in adult rabbits. We conclude that the mechanisms responsible for behavioral sleep states are responsive to a sleep-promoting substance early in ontogenesis.
Effect of the lipophilic spin-labeled inhibitor of cytochrome P-450 on the activity of the microsomal system]	It was shown that the lipophilic nitroxyl radical--2-hexyl-2,3,5,5-tetramethyl-4-(3-iodo-2-oxopropyliden)-im idazolidine- 1-oxyl, an affinity modified of rat liver microsomal cytochrome P-450, interacts with various forms of cytochrome P-450 as substrate type I, and it inhibits the oxidation of substrates specific for these forms. During its intravenous injection with egg phosphatidylcholine liposomes the radical is partly bound to liver microsomes, which is accompanied by a decrease of the oxygenase activity of microsomal preparations (by 30-50%) as well as by prolongation of the soporific effect of hexabarbital (2-3-fold).
Studies on annelated 1,4-benzothiazines and 1,5-benzothiazepines. III--Synthesis and CNS activity of some 1-substituted derivatives of the novel heterocyclic system 4,5-dihydro-s-triazolo [3,4-d]-1,5-benzothiazepine.	A series of new 4,5-dihydro-s-triazolo [3,4-d]-1,5-benzothiazepines has been prepared. All the described compounds are representative of a novel ring system. Some of these compounds were tested for their CNS activity and effects comparable with the ones of diazepam were observed.
Pharmacological studies of water extract of the Zizyphus seed and the Zizyphus seed containing drug.	1. The pharmacological properties of a water extract of the Zizyphus seed (HO2) and that of the Zizyphus seed containing drug (HO1) were studied. 2. After oral or intraduodenal administration of 3 g/kg of HO1 or HO2, the hypnotic effects induced by hexobarbital-Na (38 mg/kg, i.p.) and diazepam-induced sleep in mice were potentiated. 3. After oral or intraduodenal administration of 3 g/kg of HO1 or HO2, gastric juice secretion and ulcers induced by water immersion stress, histamine and reserpine in rats were inhibited.
Effect of neonatal nomifensine exposure on adult behavior and brain monoamines in rats.	The aim of the study was to examine the effects of early postnatal exposure to nomifensine, an inhibitor of catecholamine uptake, on concurrent active (REM) sleep, on later alcohol related behavior and on monoamine concentrations in various brain regions of rats. For these purposes rats were given daily injections of 10 mg/kg nomifensine s.c. between the 7th and the 18th postnatal days. During the nomifensine exposure active sleep, expressed as a percentage of total sleeping time, was reduced. At one month of age, the nomifensine rats showed increased ambulation and had lower defecation scores in the open-field than the controls. Neonatal exposure to nomifensine increased voluntary intake of 10% (v/v) alcohol when the rats were 2-3 months of age. The rats, however, did not exhibit preservation in the T-maze, and similarly to control rats suppressed drinking 0.1 M lithium chloride even when thirsty. Measurement of cerebral monoamine concentrations at the age of 3 months suggested that neonatal nomifensine treatment interferes with the noradrenergic and serotonergic systems in several regions of the brain. Concentrations of noradrenaline and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) were decreased in the cerebral cortex and frontal cortex, concentration of 5-HIAA was decreased in the neostriatum, and concentrations of noradrenaline, 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and 5-HIAA were elevated in the lower brain stem. Taken together, these findings show that exposure to nomifensine during the 2nd and 3rd postnatal weeks suppresses neonatal active sleep, causes changes in the adult open-field behavior, and increases voluntary alcohol intake, perhaps due to a long-lasting alteration in brain monoamines.
Inhibition and induction of rabbit liver microsomal cytochrome P-450 by pyridine.	The effects of acute and chronic administration of pyridine (PY) on rabbit hepatic microsomal cytochrome P-450-catalyzed drug metabolism have been examined. PY inhibited cytochrome P-450-catalyzed drug metabolism in vitro and in vivo. Noncompetitive inhibition of microsomal drug metabolism was observed with inhibitory constant (Ki) values ranging between 2.0 and 6.0 mM. Acute PY administration, 100 mg/kg i.p., prolonged hexobarbital sleep time in rats 2.5-fold. Chronic administration of PY to rabbits resulted in increased hepatic microsomal cytochrome P-450 content, with induction of different form(s) exhibiting elevated catalytic activities toward PY, N-nitrosodimethylamine, alcohols and aniline. PY administration (100 mg/kg i.p. for 5 days) to rabbits increased hepatic microsomal cytochrome P-450 content over 2-fold relative to uninduced animals. Sodium dodecylsulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of PY-induced microsomes revealed protein bands of enhanced intensity occurring in the regions of P-450 LM3 and LM4. Both PY- and imidazole-induced microsomes were effective in the production of PY N-oxide, with Vmax values of 1.6 and 1.8 nmol/min/mg of protein, respectively. When rates were normalized for P-450 content, PY- and imidazole-induced microsomes produced 0.9 nmol of PY N-oxide/min/nmol of P-450, comparable to that obtained for PB-induced suspensions. N-nitrosodimethylamine N-demethylase activity was enhanced 2.5- and 6-fold relative to PB- and beta-naphthoflavone-induced microsomes, respectively. A single low KM value of 0.17 mM was obtained for N-nitrosodimethylamine N-demethylase activity in PY-induced microsomes; in contrast PB- and beta-naphthoflavone-induced microsomes yielded biphasic kinetics.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effect of subcutaneous administration of delta sleep-inducing peptide (DSIP) on some parameters of sleep in the cat.	Delta sleep inducing peptide (DSIP) significantly increases deep-slow-wave sleep (DSWS) of cats after subcutaneous (SC) injection. Cats (n = 8) were SC injected with DSIP (120 nmol.kg-1) prior to polygraphic recording of EEG combined with electro-oculography, EOG) and electromyography (EMG) for 8 hours. DSIP was found to significantly increase slow-waves (delta sleep) in the sleep EEG. There was a tendency to reduced waking time and a prolongation of slow wave sleep time, and a shortening of sleep onset and REM sleep latencies but the differences from control (Ringer injection) were not statistically significant. There was no change in the amount of REM sleep. These findings support the belief that DSIP can increase sleep wave activity when administered by peripheral route.
Interaction of the complex copper compound Cu-2 with liver monooxygenases]	It has been shown that the antitumour drug Cu-2 (copper complex compound) inhibited the activity of liver monooxygenases in male CBA mice. The in vivo experiments have revealed a considerably increased duration of sleep in mice treated with hexenal after the administration of different Cu-2 doses. In vitro, after the incubation of intact mouse liver microsomal fractions with different concentrations of Cu-2 the level of cytochrome Y-450 was decreased and a non-active form of hemoprotein--cytochrome P-420--appeared. At the same time, after the incubation of Cu-2 with liver microsomal fractions stabilized by 20% glycerol type I spectral changes (Ks 330 microM) were registered. This shows the possible metabolism of Cu-2 by cytochrome P-450. The role of the revealed interaction of Cu-2 with liver microsomes is being discussed for the chemotherapy of cancer.
The relationship between metal ion levels and biogenic amine levels in epileptic mice.	The metabolism of various metal ions and biogenic amines in El mice, an inbred mutant strain susceptible to epilepsy, was investigated as a possible model for seizure mechanism. Serum Na, P, Ca, Mg, Fe and Zn levels in El mice were lower than those in ddY mice, the mother strain of El mice. Conversely, bone Ca, P, Na, Mg and Zn levels in El mice were higher than those in ddY mice. The results obtained by chemical analysis are consistent with radiographic observations. Possible mechanisms for the lower serum metal ion levels seen in El mice include a decrease in availability of these ions from bone. The dopamine (DA) level in El mouse brain was 15% lower than in ddY mice but could be raised by intraventricular administration of CaCl2. This result was supported a decreased ethanol-induced sleeping time in El as compared to ddY mice, with 'normalization' occurring after intraventricular administration of Da or CaCl2. The biogenic amine levels disorder in El mice is discussed on the basis of our pharmacological observation that biogenic amine synthesis is regulated by divalent cations via a calmodulin-dependent system. Our results suggest that the disorders of metal ion metabolism could be a mechanism for epileptic convulsions in El mice.
Effects of enhanced cerebrospinal fluid levels of vasopressin, vasopressin antagonist or vasoactive intestinal polypeptide on circadian sleep-wake rhythm in the rat.	Several endogenous peptides have been implicated in the regulation of sleep and wakefulness. The present study was carried out in order to determine whether the light-dark rhythm of vasopressin (VP) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) had functional significance in relaying information from the circadian pacemaker, i.e. the suprachiasmatic nuclei (which synthesize VP as well as vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP], to the centra regulating sleep. After constant delivery of VP in the CSF via an Accurel/collodion implant in the lateral ventricle, the VP CSF level was raised from 20-35 pg/ml to ca. 265 pg/ml whereby a VP rhythm in the CSF could no longer be detected. Under these conditions VP was found to increase the arousal state of the rat in the dark period, which resulted in a higher amplitude of the circadian sleep-wake rhythm. Application of the VP antagonist d(CH2)5[Tyr(Me)2]VP partly had opposite effects. A similar approach with central application of VIP resulted in an increase in rapid eye movement and quiet sleep but did not affect the amplitude of the circadian rhythm. It was concluded that although peptide levels in the CSF may show clear temporal variations with the light-dark cycle, this rhythmicity is not causally related to the circadian aspect of sleep-wakefulness. However, both VP and VIP contribute to the regulation of the amount of time spent in sleep and wakefulness and the level of VP in the CSF is correlated with the amplitude of the rhythm.
Hippocampal rhythmical slow activity following ibotenic acid lesions of the septal region. II. Changes in hippocampal activity during sleep.	Ibotenic acid injections in the septal nuclei of the forebrain produced severe cell loss in the dorsal lateral septal nucleus and the septohippocampal nucleus. Chronic recording of hippocampal and neocortical slow-wave activity and muscle activity showed that the ibotenic acid treatment had selectively abolished the atropine-sensitive (presumably cholinergic) form of hippocampal rhythmical slow activity (RSA) normally seen during the tonic component of active sleep. Large-amplitude irregular activity (LIA), that is normally associated with waking immobility and quiet sleep, and the atropine-resistant (probably serotonergic) RSA that normally accompanies phasic muscular activity during active sleep, were also somewhat depressed. However, clear RSA was seen during phasic muscular activity in active sleep and LIA was clearly seen during quiet sleep in all rats. Neocortical activity was not affected by the ibotenic acid treatment. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that, both in the sleeping and the waking state, RSA can be produced by either of two distinctive inputs to the hippocampus. No support was found for the hypothesis that RSA during active sleep has a different basis than RSA in the waking state.
Effect of inhibitory amino acid antagonists on IPSPs induced in lumbar motoneurons upon stimulation of the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis during active sleep.	The present study was performed to generate data implicating glycine or gamma-aminobutyric acid as neurotransmitter candidates mediating the IPSPs which are recorded in lumbar motoneurons following electrical stimulation of the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis (NRGc) during the atonia of active sleep. Accordingly, intracellular records were obtained from lumbar motoneurons in unanesthetized, normally respiring cats during naturally occurring states of active sleep, while inhibitory amino acid antagonists were microiontophoretically released next to the recorded cell. Electrical stimuli, applied to the NRGc during active sleep under drug-free conditions, evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) in all of the lumbar motoneurons which were examined. These NRGc-induced IPSPs exhibited an average latency-to-onset of 26.6 +/- 1.3 ms, a latency-to-peak of 42.5 +/- 1.3 ms, an average amplitude of 3.9 +/- 0.4 mV and a duration of 34.4 +/- 2.1 ms. Strychnine, when applied microiontophoretically, abolished or markedly suppressed these NRGc-induced IPSPs. In contrast, the microiontophoretic application of picrotoxin or bicuculline methiodide failed to block these IPSPs. To the extent that strychnine may be considered to be a specific antagonist of glycine, the present results suggest that glycine (or a structurally related amino acid) participates in the generation of NRGc-induced IPSPs during the atonia of active sleep.
N-substituted oxopyrimidines and nucleosides: structure-activity relationship for hypnotic activity as central nervous system depressant.	N3-Benzyluridine (3-(phenylmethyl)-1-beta-D-ribofuranosyluracil) (1f) and its related compounds were synthesized and evaluated for hypnotic activity as central depressants. The primary structural modification has been carried out at the N3 position of the pyrimidine ring in uridine. N3-Benzyl-substituted uridine exhibited hypnotic activity as well as pentobarbital (PB) induced sleep effect on mice when administered by intracerebroventricular (icv) injection. From this result, the secondary modification was performed, namely, converting the benzyl group into a benzyl analogous group. These compounds also showed hypnotic activity, but their intensities were varied. Thirdly, changing the sugar moiety was investigated; however, it was found to be necessary for hypnotic activity. In general, introduction of benzyl analogous groups at the N3 position of uridine increased the hypnotic activity, and modification of the sugar moiety decreased the activity. Intravenous (iv) administration failed to indicate hypnotic activity in most of the compounds tested. However, modified sugars such as 2',3',5'-tri-O-methyl or -acetyl derivatives of 1f elicited hypnotic activity by iv injection. The majority of compounds were found to show potentiation of the PB-induced sleep, and their effects were in parallel with the hypnotic activity. The result clearly indicates that the benzyl group and beta-D-ribofuranosyl, at the N3 and N1 positions, respectively, are necessary for hypnotic activity. The critical portion of the chemical structure for both effects appears to be the uridine moiety.
Muramyl dipeptide, amphetamine, and physostigmine: effects on sleep of rabbits.	Muramyl peptides (MPs) are constituents of bacterial cell walls and mammalian tissue. Some MPs have the capacity to enhance slow-wave sleep (SWS). In rabbits, it was unknown whether MPs enhanced SWS by prolonging SWS episodes or by increasing the number of SWS episodes. In rabbits, there is a frequent alternation between sleep and waking; thus, demonstration of induction of new SWS episodes is difficult unless pharmacologic manipulations are used. We injected amphetamine subcutaneously to reduce duration of sleep (from about 45% to 20%) for a period of two hours; it reduced the number of SWS episodes. Muramyl dipeptide (MDP: NAM-L-ala-D-isogln) injected into a lateral ventricle one hour before amphetamine significantly increased the number of SWS episodes. Physostigmine, a cholinergic agonist, was also used. By itself, physostigmine greatly reduced SWS and rapid eye movement sleep. Pretreatment of animals with MDP two hours before physostigmine injection failed to reverse subsequent physostigmine-induced wakefulness. We conclude that MDP has the ability to induce SWS episodes but does not act directly on the thalamocortical cholinergic mechanisms of EEG phenomena. Our results, together with earlier evidence on anatomical levels of action of amphetamine and physostigmine, suggest that the somnogenic mechanisms of MPs likely involve the midbrain.
Morphological changes in rat striatal boutons after chronic methamphetamine and haloperidol treatment.	Dopaminergic (DA) synaptic boutons were identified in rat striatum with an electron microscopic histochemical method. In rats which developed behavioral hypersensitivity after treatment with methamphetamine (MAP) for about 2 weeks, significantly fewer DA boutons were found. This effect was specific to DA boutons without mitochondria and was not seen in boutons with mitochondria. The density of granular synaptic vesicles in DA boutons, however, did not change significantly. These morphological changes would represent a high capability of nerve cells to reorganize synaptic connections under altered chemical environments, but they could not be related uniquely to behavioral hypersensitivity, as similar effects were observed in rats treated with haloperidol which did not develop behavioral hypersensitivity. Peculiarly, the effects of MAP treatment on both behavior and DA boutons were prevented by combined administration of haloperidol.
Investigations of central interaction of ethanol and clonidine.	The combined effect of ethanol and clonidine on rabbit EEG, and the effect of clonidine on ethanol sleep in mice, as well as on acute ethanol toxicity were investigated. Moreover, the effect of clonidine on ethanol level in rabbit blood and in mouse brain and the combined effect of ethanol and clonidine on rabbit arterial blood pressure were evaluated. It has been found that clonidine intensifies the effect of ethanol in EEG and prolongs ethanol sleep. Clonidine does not change acute ethanol toxicity and does not affect ethanol level in blood and the brain. Ethanol prevents the decrease of arterial blood pressure after an intravenous or intracerebroventricular administration of clonidine.
Effect of xylocaine and carbachol applied to the caudate nucleus of rats on barbiturate sleeping time.	Since lesion of subcortical structures may affect the barbiturate sleeping time (bST), we decided with the present study to elucidate the role of the caudate nucleus in the determination of central sensitivity to barbiturates. Rats implanted with a cannula in the caudate nucleus of one or both sides, as well as with a jugular cannula, were utilized. Intravenous injections of sodium pentobarbital (40 mg/kg), intracerebral injections of Xylocaine (0.04 microgram), carbachol (0.2 micrograms) or artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACF) into the caudate nucleus were performed. Both Xylocaine and carbachol, but not ACF, increased the bST regardless of the preparation used, the only exception being Xylocaine which did not alter the bST, if injected into the left caudate nucleus. The results suggest that the caudate nucleus may act as a modulator of the central sensitivity to barbiturates.
Clinical aspects of sleep disturbances and sleeping drugs.	Complaints about sleep disturbances are a common every-day problem in the general practitioner's surgery. Only a few patients need a thorough expert examination in a special sleep laboratory. Thanks to EEG, which makes available a continuous record of uninterrupted sleep cycles, knowledge of the physiology of sleep now includes important information about the normal circadian rhythm of waking and sleeping, the alternation of REM and non-REM periods, and the depth of the individual sleep cycles. EEG results are also an important basis for checking the effect of sleeping drugs. Analysis of sleep disturbances is based on the formal distinction between hypersomnia, and hyposomnia and parasomnia. Etiologically, a distinction must be made between exogenic and endogenic sleep disturbances and attention given to the fact that disturbances of night sleep also affect vigilance on the following day. These considerations are also important for the use of sleeping drugs, whose half-life and biological effect allow a useful differentiation between substances giving impulses to sleep, sleep-inducing drugs, and those enabling uninterrupted sleep during night-time. Sleep disturbances combined with certain other symptoms belong to particular syndromes in which it may be necessary to use sleeping drugs, but these should only be used in combination with other drugs, in order to reduce the risk of side effects, tolerance changes, dependence and addiction with long-term treatment. When a combination of different drugs is given, interference through interaction with lipid or protein binding, and induction or enzyme breakdown in the liver should be taken into account.
Immunopharmacology of muramyl peptides.	In recent years the immunomodulatory activity of muramyl peptides has become of major interest because of their possible physiological and clinical importance. Many data suggest that this group of compounds has other pharmacological activities besides effects on the immune system. Some of these effects, such as pyrogenicity, sleep enhancement, and analgesic activity, are linked to the central nervous system (CNS). Other activities of muramyl peptides may involve CNS and peripheral mechanisms. These include antiinflammatory and hepatoprotective activities and the effect of muramyl peptides on blood pressure. The multiplicity of pharmacological actions of muramyl peptides suggests that these compounds might have a general modulatory role in physiological functions.
Somnogenic muramyl peptides.	Sleep-promoting materials isolated from human urine and rabbit brain are muramyl peptides (MPs). The most active component of the urinary material is N-acetylglucosaminyl-1,6-anhydro-N-acetylmuramyl-Ala-Glu-diaminopimel yl-Ala; 1 pmol, infused into a lateral cerebral ventricle of rabbits, induced excess slow-wave sleep (SWS) for several hours. MP-induced sleep is normal in that it is similar to the deep sleep that follows sleep deprivation. Other biological actions of MPs (e.g., pyrogenicity and immunomodulatory activity) could be dissociated, but only in part, from somnogenic actions. Interleukin 1, a substance thought to mediate many MP activities, is somnogenic, and thus may be involved in MP-induced sleep. That MPs and other immunologically active substances can greatly enhance SWS suggests that some immunological mechanisms integrate sleep in their actions.
Kinetics and dynamics of single doses of oxazepam in the elderly: implications of absorption rate.	Five healthy elderly volunteers aged 64 to 67 years and 12 healthy young subjects aged 23 to 44 years received single 30 mg oral doses of oxazepam in two different dosage forms (two 15 mg tablets or one 30 mg capsule) on two occasions in a random crossover sequence, with at least 1 week elapsing between trials. In both age groups, rate of oxazepam absorption of the capsule form of the drug was significantly slower than that of the tablets. Peak plasma concentrations were lower and were delayed longer with the capsule form; however, the relative extent of oxazepam absorption did not differ between preparations in either age group. Clinical self-ratings in the elderly group, based on visual analog scales, were consistent with the delayed onset of sedative effects that is associated with the capsule form of administration. Kinetic comparisons in the two groups indicated a significantly prolonged oxazepam elimination half-life with the tablet (p less than .001) and with the capsule (p less than .06) and a trend (p less than .08) toward reduced oxazepam clearance in the elderly. The delayed absorption of oxazepam from the capsule was found in both the young and elderly groups.
Pharmacology of lemongrass (Cymbopogon citratus Stapf). I. Effects of teas prepared from the leaves on laboratory animals.	Cymbopogon citratus is one of the most used plants in Brazilian folk medicine for the treatment of nervous and gastrointestinal disturbances. It is also used in many other places to treat feverish conditions. The usual way to use it is by ingesting an infusion made by pouring boiling water on fresh or dried leaves (which is called "abafado" in Portuguese). Abafados obtained from lemongrass harvested in three different areas of Brazil (Cear, Minas Gerais and So Paulo States) were tested on rats and mice in an attempt to add experimental confirmation to its popular medicinal use. Citral, the main constituent of the essential oil in Brazilian lemongrass, was also studied for comparison. Oral doses of abafados up to 40 times (C40) larger than the corresponding dosage taken by humans, or of 200 mg/kg of citral, were unable to decrease body temperature of normal rats and/or rats made hyperthermic by previous administration of pyrogen. However, both compounds acted when injected by intraperitoneal route. Oral administration of doses C20 -C100 of abafados and 200 mg/kg of citral did not change the intestinal transit of a charcoal meal in mice, nor did it decrease the defecation scores of rats in an open-field arena. Again, by intraperitoneal route both compounds were active. The possible central nervous system depressant effect of the abafados was investigated by using batteries of 12 tests designed to detect general depressant, hypnotic, neuroleptic, anticonvulsant and anxiolytic effects. In all the tests employed, oral doses of abafados up to C208 or of citral up to 200 mg/kg were without effect. Only in a few instances did intraperitoneal doses demonstrate effects. These data do no lend support to the popular oral therapeutic use of lemongrass to treat nervous and intestinal ailments and feverish conditions.
Pharmacological studies on 3-[gamma-(p-fluorobenzoyl)propyl]-2,3,4,4a,5,6-hexahydro-1-(H)-pyrazino ]1,2-a] quinoline hydrochloride (compound 69/183). Part III: Assessment of tranquillising activity.	The tranquillising activity of 3-[gamma-(p-fluorobenzoyl)propyl]-2,3,4,4a,5,6-hexahydro-1-(H)-pyrazino [1, 2-a]quinoline hydrochloride (centpyraquin), a new adrenergic neurone blocking antihypertensive agent, has been evaluated in various laboratory animals. The compound has a calming effect in mice, rats, cats and monkeys. In low doses it reduces the spontaneous motor activity followed in progressively higher doses by hypothermia, ptosis and catalepsy and a taming effect in monkeys and cats. It potentiates pentobarbitone-, hexobarbitone- and ethanol-induced sleep and antagonises amphetamine induced toxicity in mice. It, however, fails to antagonise morphine induced mania and hyperactivity in cats. It blocks conditioned avoidance response in rats at a much lower dose (ED50 = 2.73 mg/kg) than the unconditioned response (ED50 = 10,9 mg/kg). In cats centpyraquin increases the voltage and slows the frequency of cortical EEG discharges. Centpyraquin has the profile of activity of a neuroleptic on the central nervous system.
Pharmacological properties of 6-(o-chlorophenyl)-8-ethyl-1-methyl-4H-s-triazolo[3,4-c]thieno[2,3-e] [1,4]diazepine (Y-7131), a new anti-anxiety drug.	6-(o-Chlorophenyl)-8-ethyl-1-methyl-4H-s-triazolo[3,4-c]thienol[2,3-e][1,4]diazepine (Y-7131), a new derivative of the thienodiazepines, had marked activities in antipentylenetetrazole effect in mice, attenuation of conflict behavior in rats, inhibition of aggressive behavior induced by hypothalamic stimulation in cats and muscle relaxant effects in normal and decerebrate cats. Y-7131 had weak activities in anti-MES effect in mice and loss of righting reflex in mice. The acute toxicity of Y-7131 was considerably lower than that of diazepam. No significant autonomic or neuroleptic effects were noted. Y-7131 appears to be a characteristic and potent anti-anxiety agent different from the benzodiazepines.
The effect of a sub-chronic administration of three dose levels of a 1,5-benzodiazepine derivative, clobazam, on subjective assessments of sleep and aspects of psychomotor performance the morning following night time medication.	The effect of repeated doses of a 1,5-benzodiazepine derivative, clobazam, at doses of 20, 30, and 40 mg taken at night was assessed the morning following medication on a variety of subjective and objective measures of sleep and psychomotor performance. None of the three dose levels of the drug produced any significant changes in critical flicher fusion thresholds or in complex reaction time tasks. Conceptual learning ability was not impaired by any of the doses of clobazam administered. Clobazam was rated on a self-scoring analogue rating scale as an effective sleep inducer, which also improved the perceived quality of sleep. There was also a reduction in the perceived integrity of early morning behaviour commensurate with the reported ease of getting to sleep.
Effects of thyrotropin-releasing hormone on sleep and sleep-related growth hormone release in normal subjects.	Effects of TRH on sleep and sleep-related growth hormone (GH) release were examined in four normal volunteers. A bolus of 500 microgram of synthetic TRH was injected iv at the onset of sleep, followed by continuous iv infusion of 1000 microgram of TRH dissolved in saline for 3 h on two nights. Saline alone was infused on two control nights in each of these subjects. Polygraphic sleep records showed that TRH transiently interrupted sleep on both nights in all of the four subjects. The arousal phenomenon was observed from 80 to 151 min after the start of TRH administration until 20 to 212 min after the end of TRH infusion. The mean (+/-SE) percentage of awakening on the nights of TRH administration was significantly larger than on the control nights (36.4 +/- 1.9% vs. 1.3 +/- 0.8%, P less than 0.001). Plasma GH increased in close relationship to the initial appearance of slow wave sleep (SWS) within 40 min after sleep onset on both control nights in all four subjects. On nights of TRH administration, however, plasma GH levels during the initial 80 min of sleep were significantly lower (P less than 0.005) than on control nights, whereas SWS was demonstrated before the interruption of sleep. On nights when sleep was interrupted by forced wakefulness 1 h after sleep onset, plasma GH rose to levels comparable to those on control nights during early sleep periods in all subjects examined. These results suggest that TRH inhibits sleep and sleep-related GH release in normal subjects.
Time-dependent kinetics II: Diurnal oscillations in steady-state plasma ethosuximide levels in rhesus monkeys.	Morning steady-state (9 am) plasma levels were significantly higher than the corresponding evening (5 pm) plasma levels during a 3-week zero-order infusion of ethosuximide to six monkeys. These differences could not be explained by experimental variables such as GLC assay and infusion pump. Circadian periodicity in steady-state plasma levels was investigated in three monkeys over 4 months under controlled experimental conditions: blood sampling at 2-hr intervals for 26 hr, 1 day/week; fixed lighting, feeding, and noise schedules; and electroencephalogram monitoring. The plasma concentration-time curves showed two minima in the 12 noon-2 pm and 8 pm-12 midnight periods, and the later involved the largest percent change in plasma levels (4-8%). The plasma concentration-time data were subjected to cross-correlation analysis, which indicated a circadian rhythm in steady-state plasma levels with a period of 24-26 hr.
Activating and anesthetic effects of general depressants.	The long-sleep (LS) and short-sleep (SS) lines of mice were derived by selective breeding with respect to ethanol sleep time. We found that in current generations LS mice also have longer sleep times than SS mice to trichloroethanol and paraldehyde. Two subsequent experiments tested our hypothesis that mice that are relatively insensitive to the hypnotic effects of depressant drugs might be relatively activated by low doses of these drugs. Both experiments failed to support the hypothesis. First, although SS mice were more activated than LS mice by subhypnotic doses of paraldehyde, the lines did not differ in the degree of activation produced by low doses of trichloroethanol. Second, among mice from a genetically heterogeneous population (HS), there was no relation between the degree of activation induced by a low dose of ethanol and sensitivity to the hypnotic effects of a higher dose.
Interaction effects of ethanol and pyrazole in laboratory rodents.	1. Interactions of pyrazole and ethanol were studied in three laboratory test procedures. They included sleeping time in mice, rotor rod balance in rats and lever pressing behaviour of rats.2. Equimolar concentrations of pyrazole and 3-methylpyrazole were compared for effects on enhancement of ethanol's activity on rotor rod holding time of rats.3. Minimally effective doses of pyrazole, the LADH inhibitor, and 3-methylpyrazole, a non-inhibitor of LADH, when administered before ethanol, resulted in an increased behavioural depression. These interaction effects are probably not caused by inhibition of LADH but rather by an increase in the direct depressant action of either one or both of the compounds.
Pharmacological study on 5-(o-chlorophenyl)-1-methyl-7-nitro-1,3-dihydro-2H-1,4-benzodiazepin-2-one (ID-690), with special reference to the effects on motor systems]	Effects of ID-690 on motor systems were compared with those of clonazepam, diazepam and nitrazepam. ID-690 exerted muscle relaxant action in the rotarod method using rats and mice; this action was almost equal in potency to clonazepam and nitrazepam and more potent than diazepam. Pretreatment with ID-690, clonazepam and nitrazepam increased the sleeping time of mice under thiopental anesthesia to the same degree, whereas diazepam produced a lesser effect. ID-690 was almost equal in potency to diazepam and nitrazepam in protecting against oxotremorine-induced tremor in mice, and approximately 10 times as potent as clonazepam. The anticonvulsant action of ID-690 was similar to that of clonazepam. These benzodiazepines effectively augmented the dorsal root reflexes, while showing no effects on the ventral root reflexes. Rigidity in rats due to anemic decerebration was not affected after intraduodenal administration of these drugs, while phasic augmentation of the rigidity by mechanical stimulation of the hind limb was clearly depressed. These drugs had no effects on the neuromuscular junction. From these results, it is concluded that ID-690 has a wider pharmacological spectrum than clonazepam, is almost equal in potency to nitrazepam and is more potent than diazepam.
Neostriatal administration of somatostatin:differential effect of small and large doses on behavior and motor control.	The administration of small doses of somatostatin (SRIF) (0.01 and 0.1 microgram) into the neostriatal complex of unrestrained, freely moving rats induced general behavioral excitation associated with a variety of stereotyped movements, tremors, and a reduction of rapid eye movements (REM) and deep slow wave sleep (SWS). In contrast, the higher doses of SRIF (1.0 and 10.0 microgram) caused movements to be uncoordinated and frequently induced more severe difficulties in motor control such as contralateral hemiplegia-in-extension which restricted or completely prevented the expression of normal behavioral patterns. As a result, the animals appeared drowsy and inhibited. Analysis of the sleep-waking cycle revealed prolonged periods of a shallow SWS while REM sleep and deep SWS were markedly reduced; electroencephalogram recordings revealed periods of dissociation from behavior. The administration of endocrinologically inactive as well as the active analogues of SRIF failed to induce effects comparable with those observed after the administration of the same dose of the native hormone (10.0 microgram).
Enhancement of ethanol-induced sleep by whole oil of nutmeg.	In young chickens, the whole oil of nutmeg (200 mg/kg) increased the duration of sleep induced by ethanol (1--4 g/kg), particularly deep sleep. Iproniazid (50-400 mg/kg), a monoamine oxidase inhibitor, did not mimic this effect.
Neurochemical and neuropharmacological investigations with four ergot derivatives: bromocriptine, dihydroergotoxine, CF 25-397 and CM 29-712.	Neurochemical and neuropharmacological investigations with four ergot derivatives reveal differential pharmacodynamic effects of these compounds. Bromocriptine and CM 29-712 showed actions typical of postsynaptic dopamine receptor stimulants, in particular in the extrapyramidal system. CM 29-712 proved to be more potent than bromocriptine, with an early onset of action. CF 25-397 and dihydroergotoxine, while not showing all actions typical of central dopamine agonists, appeared to exert some of their effects by means of a stimulation of central serotoninergic sites. In the rat sleep-wakefulness cycles and in reserpine-induced ponto-geniculooccipital waves in the cat, they mimicked the effects of 5-hydroxytryptophan. In the latter test, CF 25-397 proved to be particularly potent. In addition, bromocriptine, dihydroergotoxine and CM 29-712 showed neurochemical effects consistent with central alpha-adrenergic blockade or an enhanced impulse flow in central noradrenergic neurons.
Studies on the influence of piprozoline on the microsomal enzyme system of the rat liver (author's transl)]	Studies of hexobarbital sleeping time in rats showed that only a very high dosage of ethyl(Z)-(3-ethyl-4-oxo-5-piperidino-thiazolidin-2-ylidene)-acetate (piprozoline, G 919, Problin) (500 mg/kg) produced a weak interaction with the metabolism of hexobarbital; no signs of any induction of the oxidative enzyme system were observed until 4 days after pre-treatment with 3 X 250 mg/kg. Determinations of the in vitro activity of hepatic microsomal enzymes after several days pre-treatment of male Wistar rats with 2 X 250 mg piprozoline/kg per day showed that piprozoline has only a slight inductive effect on some of the enzymes of the oxidative system. Some of the glucuronidation reactions tested showed marked increases.
Development of new antiepileptics. V. Pharmacological activity of some derivatives of sulfanilamide (author's transl)]	9 derivatives of sulfanilamide were tested for anticonvulsant properties against electroconvulsive shock in mice and rats and against pentylenetetrazole shock in mice. Reference standard in these tests was sulfanilamide. Their toxic, analgesic and sedative activities were also examined. The anticonvulsive activity of sulfanilamide could be enhanced by substitution of the phenyl ring with a halogen atom. Substitution of the sulfonamide group diminishes the anticonvulsant and increases the sedative activity of sulfanilamide. Detoxication of the basic substance by substitution of the aromatic amino group only little influences the anticonvulsant activity and may even enhance it. Of the tested substances, 1742 (3-chloro-4-phenacetamido-benzene-sulfonamide) exhibited the best anticonvulsant activity; slightly weaker was PB 311 (3-chloro-4-amino-benzene-sulfonamide). The ED50 for the activity against electroconvulsive shock of both substances was about 30 mg/kg p.o. in mice. The relationship between anticonvulsant activity and inhibition of the renal and cerebral carbonic anhydrase is discussed.
Special experiments on central nervous effects of amitriptylinoxide considering pharmacokinetic aspects.	A few conclusive experimental models (barbiturate sleep, tetrabenazine reversion, maximum electroshock) were chosen to collect comprehensive data on the pharmacodynamic characteristics of amitriptylinoxide. The following results appear to be of particular importance: 1. The drive-promoting effect of amitriptylinxide increases with repeated application of the substance. Its maximum level is reached after approx. 5 to 10 days. A simultaneous decrease of the sedative component is observed during the same interval. These processes can be explained neither by accumulation nor by developing of drug tolerance but have to be attributed to a change in metabolic processes. 2. Comparative investigations of oral and i.v. application led to the conclusion that amitriptylinoxide is absorbed rapidly and almost completely from the intestine when administered orally. Maximum action is demonstrable at about 1 h after oral administration. 3. As had been expected, diazepam intensified the sedative effect of amitriptylinoxide. The findings obtained suggest an additive action of the two substances.
Effect of molsidomine on the regional distribution of cardiac output in the anaesthetized dog (author's transl)]	In anaesthetized dogs blood pressures were measured in the following parts of the circulation: A. femoralis, aorta, left ventricle and A. pulmonalis. By means of particle distribution technique blood flow was measured in 25 different organs. By additional determination of arterio-venous O2 difference (AVDO2) between heart and brain oxygen consumption could be calculated. All data were measured before, 15, 30, 45 and 60 min after injection of 0.05 or 0.1 mg/kg, respectively, N-carboxy-3-morpholino-sydnonimine ethylester (molsidomine, Corvaton) i.v. 1. Molsidomine reduces blood pressures in all parts of the circulation measured. The duration of effects exceeds the experimental period. 2. The compound is no coronary vasodilator in the dose range selected, no dilation of cerebral occurs. Blood flow in kidneys remains constant. Blood flow values of all other organs do not give any indication of an essential peripheral dilatory effect of the drug. 3. Oxygen consumption of left ventricle is significiantly reduced by 25% with molsidomine (0.05 mg/kg i.v.). Oxygen consumption of brain remains constant. 4. All data are in accordance with the hypothesis that molsidomine exerts its effect predominantly by acting on capacitance vessels (venous pooling) of the circulation.
Hepatic microsomal mixed-function oxidase system in rats pretreated with cicloxilic acid.	In a study of the hepatic microsomal drug metabolising system in rats, pretreatment with cis-2-hydroxy-2-phenyl-cyclohexanecarboxilic acid (cicloxilic acid) did not prolong pentobarbital sleeping time or decrease the cytochrome P 450 content of the liver microsomes. The drug interacted with the liver microsomes to yield a type II spectral change. Cicloxilic acid did not affect the metabolism of CCl4 in vivo, as judged by the covalent binding of 14C from 14CCl r to microsomal lipids, or delay the gastrointestinal absorption of CCl4, as judged by the concentration of free CCl4 in the liver. The protection afforded by cicloxilic acid against CCl4 liver damage is therefore due neither to inhibition of the metabolism nor to delayed absorption of the toxin.
Pharmacokinetic and clinical observations on prolonged administration of flunitrazepam.	Eight patients were given flunitrazepam 2 mg orally, once daily for 28 consecutive days. The time-course of the plasma concentration of unchanged flunitrazepam and its principal metabolites were studied in detail after the first and last doses. Additional blood samples were collected immediately before administration of the tablet on days 4, 7, 11, 14, 18, 21 and 25. Clinically there were not changes during the trial period in the onset of sleep, duration of sleep, depth of sleep measured as number of spontaneous awakenings, or in the patients' condition on awakening. The time-course of the plasma concentration of flunitrazepam could be described by a three-compartment model, assuming that the rate constants remained unchanged during treatment. Maximal plasma concentrations of unchanged flunitrazepam, found two hours after intake, reached 10-15 ng/ml after the first and 15-20 ng/ml after the last dose. The beta-half-life was found to be between 20 and 36 h.
Improved hypnotic treatment using chlormethiazole and temazepam.	The effects of a single 384 mg oral dose of chlormethiazole were compared with those of 20 mg of temazepam and placebo in healthy old and young women (mean ages 72.9 and 24.7 years respectively). Both drugs were effective hypnotics and had no detectable pharmacological action the next morning. Even four hours after administration performance of a simple psychomotor test was not impaired and sway (measured by an ataxiameter) was not increased in either age group. Pharmacokinetic studies showed that chlormethiazole was rapidly absorbed, distributed, and eliminated by both groups, so that minimal plasma concentrations existed 11 hours after administration. Temazepam, however, was less quickly absorbed and distributed, especially in the young group, and substantial amounts remained in the plasma 11 hours after administration. No unwanted effects occurred after temazepam, but 17 of the 20 subjects suffered from nasal irritation after taking chlormethiazole. Thus hangover effects may be avoided in elderly subjects after they have taken hypnotic drugs, and temazepam and chlormethiazole allow sleep to be interrupted safely.
Comparative study of zopiclone, a novel hypnotic, and three benzodiazepines.	The hypnotic effect and tolerance of zopiclone 7.5 mg, nitrazepam 5 mg, flurazepam 30 mg, flunitrazepam 2 mg and placebo were compared in a one-night double blind study in 414 hospitalised patients who were to undergo an operation on the following day. Zopiclone was slightly superior to nitrazepam but was inferior both to flurazepam and flunitrazepam. All the active drugs differed clearly from placebo. The results from a subset of patients, excluding those who felt anxious either before treatment on the evening prior to the operation or on the following morning, were analysed separately. All the active products differed significantly from placebo; zopiclone was slightly less effective than the three benzodiazepines. All the benzodiazepines decreased the percentage of patients feeling anxious about the operation by about 25%, zopiclone by about 10% and placebo did not change it at all.
Metabolite involvement in bromocriptine-induced circling behaviour in rodents.	Bromocriptine and apomorphine produced identical circling responses in rodents with medial forebrain bundle lesions. Rotation induced by bromocriptine, but not by apomorphine, was inhibited by prior treatment with reserpine or alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine suggesting a requirement for intact presynpatic events. Bromocriptine-induced circling also was inhibited by the catecholamine re-uptake blockers nomifensine and desmethylimipramine, supporting the role of presynaptic mechanisms. Bromocriptine-induced circling, but not apomorphine circling, was reduced by pre-treatment with SKF 525A, an inhibitor of monooxygenase enzymes, suggesting metabolite involvement in the turning response. This compound prolonged hexobarbitone sleeping times and zoxazolamine paralysis times in mice. These indices of drug metabolizing activity also were prolonged by pre-treatment with desmethylimipramine while nomifensine prolonged only hexobarbitone sleeping times and alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine had no effect on either index. The data suggest that a metabolite of bromocriptine may be of importance in causing circling and that uptake of bromocriptine (or a metabolite) into presynaptic catecholamine terminals may be necessary.
Pharmacological properties of buprenorphine, a new analgesic agent. Part II. (author's transl)]	Pharmacological properties of buprenorphine were compared with those of morphine and pentazocine. Buprenorphine scarcely showed any effects on spontaneous EEGs and sleep-wakefulness cycles. Buprenorphine tended to depress the recruiting and augmenting responses and the spindle burst, and it also inhibited the hypothalamic arousal response. Buprenorphine had weaker emetic action than morphine and protected against apomorphine-induced emesis in the same manner as morphine. Buprenorphine scarcely affected respirations, blood pressure, heart rate, blood flow, ECG, cardiac contractile force, cornary flow, and intracranial pressure. However, morphine and pentazocine caused depressed respiration, decreased blood pressure, increased blood flow and cardiac contractile force, and elevated intracranial pressure. Buprenorphine, morphine, and pentazocine did not affect bile secretion, but produced contraction of the sphincter of Oddi. Buprenorphine had very little effect on renal function, but morphine and pentazocine reduced this function to depress urine flow. Buprenorphine and morphine inhibited carrageenin-induced edema. Buprenorphine had no effect on blood histamine level, but morphine increased the concentration of histamine. These results indicate that buprenorphine has little effect on the central nervous system, respiratory and cardiovascular system, and renal function.
Hypnotic effects of a benzodiazepine derivative: a clinical observation.	A double-blind study was conducted on triazolam, using nitrazepam and placebo as control compounds; statistically significant differences were demonstrated in favor of triazolam compared with placebo and with nitrazepam in many aspects of efficacy, but there was no significant difference between triazolam and nitrazepam in the incidence of concomitant symptoms and side effects. The fact that a certain quantity of triazolam is equivalent in strength to ten times that quantity of nitrazepam suggests the high potency of the former. These data indicate that triazolam is a valuable sleep inducer, with highly-rated efficacy and safety.
Cocaine potentiates ketamine-induced loss of the righting reflex and sleeping time in mice. Role of catecholamines.	Cocaine in graded doses potentiated ketamine-induced loss of the righting reflex and sleeping time. Potentiation of drug-induced sleep with cocaine was not a generalized phenomenon inasmuch as it had no effect on sleep induced by pentobarbital or hexobarbital and decreased sleep induced by phenobarbital. Pentylenetetrazole reduced ketamine sleep but d-amphetamine had a potentiative action. dl-alpha-Methyl-p-tyrosine methyl ester itself increased both the number losing the righting reflex and the sleeping time induced by ketamine. However, the effect cocaine on sleeping time was blocked 3 h after the dl-alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine methyl ester was given. The alpha and beta adrenergic blocking drugs, phenoxybenzamine and propranolol, increased the number of animals losing the righting reflex with ketamine, and phenoxybenzamine lengthened the sleeping time. Alpha and beta adrenergic agonists, l-phenylephrine and isoproterenol, increased the number of animals going to sleep with ketamine but did not significantly alter how long they would sleep. The agonists had no effect on the cocaine interaction with ketamine, whereas the antagonists blocked the effect of cocaine. Both stimulation and blockade of dopamine receptors led to increased loss of the righting reflex and sleeping time with ketamine but only receptor blockade antagonized the effect of cocaine on ketamine-induced sleep. Thus, both the noradrenergic and dopaminergic systems appear to be involved in the ability of cocaine to potentiate ketamine-induced sleep.
48-hour sleep-wake cycles in manic-depressive illness: naturalistic observations and sleep deprivation experiments.	Wrist motor activity and sleep were monitored longitudinally in 15 rapidly cycling and 52 nonrapidly cycling manic-depressive patients. The majority of patients experienced one or more consecutive 48-hour sleep-wake cycles (alternate nights with no sleep) when they switched out of depression into mania of hypomania. During a depressive phase, nine rapidly cycling patients were asked to simulate a 48-hour sleep-wake cycle by remaining awake for 40 hours (one night's total sleep deprivation). Eight switched out of depression, and seven were rated as manic or hypomanic; indicating that sleep loss (such as occurs with spontaneous 48-hour sleep-wake cycles) may help to trigger switches from depression to mania. The 48-hour sleep-wake cycles in patients may depend on a mechanism that is normally present in all humans, since normal persons also spontaneously experience near-48 hour sleep-wake cycles in certain experimental conditions.
A comparison of the psychotropic profiles of tofisopam and diazepam.	Twelve normal subjects were tested on a number of measures both before and 1,3 and 5 h after 10 mg diazepam, 100 and 200 mg tofisopam and a placebo. The measures included self-ratings of mood, bodily symptoms, hostility and sleep, the electroencephalogram (EEG), reaction time, tapping, digit symbol substitution, the symbol copying test, and plasma levels. Diazepam showed a clear profile of action, producing EEG changes, pronounced sedation and psychological impairment. The last two effects were maximal at 1 h and had worn off by 5 h. The EEG was recorded at 3 h only. Tofisopam in no way resembled diazepam. It produced no changes on the EEG or psychological tests and a very mild stimulant effect was apparent on the ratings. While diazepam was easily detectable in the blood, tofisopam did not bind to benzodiazepine receptors.
Regulation of sleep after neonatal locus coeruleus lesion: functional evidence of beta-adrenergic supersensitivity.	In the present report we analyzed the long-term effect of neonatal noradrenergic denervation on the regulation of paradoxical sleep in the rat. The locus coeruleus was destroyed bilaterally at 4 days of age by direct infusion of 6-hydroxydopamine into the nuclei. After they reached adulthood, the rats received either i.p. injections of a beta-blocker, propranolol, or the same treatment combined with intraventricular infusion of a beta-agonist, isoproterenol. Several doses of each drug were tested. The effects of propranolol, alone and together with isoproterenol, on paradoxical sleep (a decrease for the former drug and a restoration for the latter combination) were significantly more pronounced in the lesioned group than in age-paired controls. These data illustrate a functional aspect of the denervation supersensitivity phenomenon in beta-receptors.
Antidiuretic hormone concentrations following midazolam premedication.	Midazolam given orally the night before and on the morning of operation had a distinct subjective pre-operative sedative effect as compared with placebo. Patients receiving midazolam also experienced less apprehension and excitement before surgery, but in relation to quality of sleep, the difference between the two groups was not statistically significant. Antidiuretic hormone (ADH) concentrations were determined just before induction of anaesthesia and were significantly lower in the midazolam group (2.14 pg/ml, SD 0.96) than in the placebo group (3.07 pg/ml, SD 1.73). Our results show that midazolam is a useful sedative anxiolytic oral premedicant, which appears to prevent initiation of a stress reaction before induction of anaesthesia.
Chemical structure and biological activity of the diazepines.	Since the introduction of chlordiazepoxide and diazepam many diazepines have been developed. Use of these drugs is increasing and considerable knowledge has accumulated about their mechanisms of action. The structural and pharmacological properties of these drugs are surveyed briefly.
Pharmacology and hypnogenic properties of brotizolam in animals.	Brotizolam differs in pharmacological profile from other diazepines by virtue of its hypnogenic potency. It increases, whereas other diazepines reduce, sleep in the cat. With increasing doses, the latency to rapid eye movement sleep is lengthened and the proportion is reduced. Brotizolam has anxiolytic, anticonvulsant and muscle relaxant properties. The effective anxiolytic and muscle relaxant doses are somewhat lower than those of diazepam, and the effective anti-convulsant dose is ten times lower. Barbiturate synergism in mice is lower with brotizolam than with diazepam, while alcohol-induced coma is prolonged over the same dose range. Side-effects of brotizolam are similar to those of other diazepines, but the therapeutic range is more favourable. Physical dependence as tested in the monkey seems to be low.
The effects of peptides on the stimulus properties of ethanol.	Male Sprague-Dawley rats were trained to discriminate ethanol (2 g/kg, PO: EtOH) from saline (10 ml/kg, PO: SAL) in a two-bar positively reinforced operant task on a VI 15 sec schedule. After the rats reached criterion performance (greater than 90% correct responses on the appropriate lever), thyrotropin releasing hormone (pyroGlu-His-Pro-NH2: TRH), a metabolite of TRH (His-Pro diketopiperazine: HP), and a structural analog of TRH (HPCA-His-ThiaPro-NH2: OHT) were tested for their ability to antagonize the EtOH cue. These peptides were chosen for their reported ability to reverse ethanol-induced narcosis. However, at doses that did not disrupt performance, TRH, HP, and OHT did not affect the stimulus properties of ethanol at any dose tested, nor did they change the stimulus properties of saline. Naloxone and ACTH(1-10)-NH2 were also tested as ethanol antagonists of the training dose. Pretreatment with either of these compounds failed to alter ethanol-appropriate responding. In addition, (DA1a2-Met5)-enkephalin-ol, (DAla2-Met(O)5)-enkephalin-ol, substance P, delta sleep-inducing peptide, and bombesin were tested for their ability to elicit ethanol appropriate responding. The EtOH cue generalized to none of these peptides.
Functional and biochemical correlates of chlordecone exposure and its enhancement of CCl4 hepatotoxicity.	Animals pretreated with chlordecone exhibit a greatly increased hepatotoxic response to CCl4 challenge. Possible mechanisms underlying this interaction were examined. A single p.o. administration of chlordecone (5 mg/kg) was followed by CCl4 (200 microliter/kg) administered i.p. 48 h later. Twenty-four hours later, animals treated with chlordecone mccl4 had decreased hepatic excretory function (20% of controls) and elevated plasma transaminase activities and bilirubin. Hepatic mixed function oxidase activity was assessed as pentobarbital sleeping time and was not affected by chlordecone pretreatment. Irreversible binding of label from 14CCl4 to hepatic protein or lipid was not different in the chlordecone group compared to vehicle controls. Hepatic and renal glutathione concentrations were not affected by chlordecone alone (at 6 h, 1, 2, 3, 5 and 7 days) or by a combination of chlordecone (48 h) and CCl4 (24 h). CCl4-induced lipid peroxidation of liver tissue, measured in vitro or in vivo, was not increased by chlordecone treatment. Thus, while the mechanism for the enhanced toxicity remains to be elucidated, these results suggest that the interaction between chlordecone and CCl4 is a subtle one, not causally involving increased covalent binding of the toxin, increased susceptibility of tissue lipids to peroxidative damage or decreased hepatic GSH.
Polysomnographic effects of thyroid hormones primary myxedema.	Nine primary myxedematous patients were subjected to all-night polysomnographic recordings under the following conditions: (1) basal or myxedematous state; (2) acute replacement therapy (treatment with thyroid hormones at doses that increased weekly to the maximal replacement dose, Mrd); and (3) chronic replacement therapy (maintenance on the Mrd; euthyroid state). The most striking abnormality found in the sleep pattern during the myxedematous state was observed in both young adult (greater than 20 years old) and adult (greater than 50 years old) patients, consisting of either a complete absence or very low levels of slow wave sleep (SWS). Replacement therapy was accompanied by a restoration of the normal sleep pattern in 3 of the 4 patients that were followed. In contrast, younger patients (14-18 years old with a bone age of less than or equal to 10 years) had normal levels of SWS, with the exception of an adolescent with a bone age of less than 3 years. The latency for rapid eye movement (REM) sleep tended to increase during acute replacement therapy and became normal when euthyroidism was reached. These results lend support to the proposal that thyroid hormones exert central effects on the adult CNS.
Effects of serotonin synthesis inhibition on sleep in hippocampectomized rats.	In adult rats an anterodorsal bilateral hippocampectomy produced an increase in motor activity without modification of the amount of the different sleep stages. In hippocampectomized rats p-chlorophenylalanine produced an insomnia which can be reversed by 5-HTP. These results show that the insomnia produced by brain serotonin depletion is not a result of the hyperactivity produced by the treatments which cause such depletion.
Opiate receptors and sleep. Effects of microinjections of morphine in the median thalamus and the periaqueductal gray matter of the rabbit (author's transl)]	Microinjections of morphine in optimal doses into the medial thalamus (40 micrograms) and periaqueductal gray matter (10-20 micrograms) produce slow-wave sleep with abondant spindles, in addition to analgesia. Like analgesia, the sleep-inducing effect is blocked by naloxone (1 mg/kg i.v., 160 micrograms i.c.). One may therefore conclude that the effect is related to the agonistic action of morphine on endorphine receptors. It is thus probable that the endorphins constitute a regulatory system acting on the medullary-thalamic sleep-inducing structures which generate the sleep spindles. At higher dose levels, injections of morphine into the same structures produce behavioral agitation resembling the dissociated REM sleep described by Jouvet and which is not blocked by naloxone. The agitation might be due to an indirect action of morphine, and therefore of endorphin receptors, acting on monoaminergic structures.
Opiate receptors and sleep. II. Effects of micro-injection of ethyl alcohol and pentobarbital in the median thalamus, periaqueductal gray matter and nucleus of the tractus solitarius of the rabbit (author's transl)]	There is an analogy between sleep EEGs produced by microinjections of morphine in the bulbo-mesencephalo-thalamic recruiting system and EEGs seen during anesthetic-induced sleep. Many studies in the last 10 years have claimed cross-tolerance and cross-dependence between opiates and ethyl alcohol. Opiates, ethyl alcohol and pentobarbital have many common metabolic actions in the central nervous system. Like morphine, microinjections of optimal equimolar doses of ethyl alcohol and pentobarbital in the bulbo-mesencephalo-thalamic sleep-inducing system of the rabbit produce sleep EEGs with abundant fast activity, which is blocked by naloxone (2 mg/kg i.v.) or by microinjections (160 micrograms) into the same structures. However, there is neither binding nor displacement by naloxone of ethyl alcohol or pentobarbital from the opiate receptor. It is thus probable that, via an as yet unknown mechanism, ethyl alcohol and pentobarbital promote the release of endorphins or peptides, which are specific ligands of all or some opiate receptors.
Effects of suloctidil on the central and peripheral nervous systems]	The effects of suloctidil (MY103) on the central (CNS) and peripheral nervous systems were investigated with single and consecutive administration. The general behavior in mice, awareness and motor activity were slightly depressed with the dose above 300 mg/kg, p.o. of MY 103. Soft stool was also marked in the dose above 100 mg/kg, p.o. in beagles and 1000 mg/kg, p.o. in mice. In beagles, vomiting was another syndrome with 100 and 300 mg/kg, p.o. of MY 103. Spontaneous motor activity was significantly decreased after MY 103 by p.o. administration in the dose above 100 mg/kg in mice and 300 mg/kg in rats. In sleep anesthesia studies, MY 103 and iproniazid did not potentiate the effect of a subthreshold dose of barbital, but those two drugs significantly prolonged the sleeping time of pentobarbital as chlorpromazine did. No anticonvulsive effect was observed with MY 103 in chemo- and electroshock seizure tests. My 103 of 300 mg/kg, p.o. significantly decreased the acetic acid induced writhing number, but no analgesic activity was found in the Haffner's method in mice. In the rotarod test, MY 103 of 30-300 mg/kg, p.o. inhibited the motor coordination dose-dependently. MY 103 antagonized the m-amphetamine group toxicity. A cataleptogenic effect was observed following the relatively high dose of MY 103 by an i.p. route. This effect was antagonized by atropine. The spinal reflexes in the immobilized cat, and spontaneous rabbit EEG were not affected by MY 103. The conditioned avoidance response (CAR) was also not changed with MY 103 in rats. In the isolated phrenic-nerve diaphragm preparation, 10(-4)M MY 103 irreversively inhibited the muscle twitches elicited by nerve and muscle stimulation, but suloctidil at 300 micrograms/kg, i.v., did not suppress the tibialis muscle twitches in vivo. In the consecutive administration study, MY 103 suppressed the CAR in rats and prolonged the thiopental-sleeping time in an administration period-related manner. These changes disappeared rapidly after drug withdrawal. Taking these evidences together, it can be concluded that MY 103 has little effect on the CNS with single administration, but the tendency to depress the CNS was observed after the repeated administration of MY 103.
Efficacy and tolerance of zopiclone in insomniac geriatric patients.	Zopiclone is a cyclopyrrolone derivative which exerts, in animal and man, an hypnotic activity comparable to that of flurazepam. In healthy adult insomniacs it was well tolerated upon repeated administration for 28 days. In a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study, three dose levels of zopiclone (5, 7.5, and 10 mg) were compared to 15 mg of flurazepam in 30 geriatric insomniacs. The 7.5- and 10-mg doses demonstrated hypnotic potency comparable to that of flurazepam, and the active treatments were superior to placebo. For most sleep indices, 7.5 mg was the optimal therapeutic dose. Few side effects were reported. These were not clinically significant. Zopiclone is efficacious and well tolerated in the treatment of geriatric patients suffering from insomnia. A dosage range of 7.5-10 mg is recommended.
Comparison of nitrazepam and zopiclone in psychiatric patients.	This investigation compares the effects of single and double doses of nitrazepam (5 and 10 mg) and zopiclone (7.5 and 15 mg) and placebo for 1 night in 40 psychiatric patients. The results indicate that zopiclone is an active hypnotic compound, comparable in its effects to those of nitrazepam, the higher dosage being best adapted to the type of patients included in the study.
Antiextensor effects of 3,3-diphenyl-n-propylamine in the mouse.	Diphenylpropylamine has antiextensor activity in the MES test and worsens clonic seizures produced by pentylenetetrazol. The drug also prevents tonic hindlimb extension produced by large doses of pentylenetetrazol. Diphenylpropylamine appears, therefore, to be a phenytoin-like compound. However, unlike most antiextensor agents, diphenylpropylamine has neuroexcitatory effects and antagonizes barbital-induced loss of the righting reflex.
In vitro and in vivo effects of promethazine (Phenergan) on drug metabolism.	Prolongation effects of promethazine on the pentobarbital sleeping time are not due to interactions of this drug with cytochrome P-450 or cytochrome c reductase or inhibition of drug metabolism because pentobarbital plasma levels in promethazine treated animals before awakening are not different than in controls. Results suggest additive effects of both drugs on the central nervous system. Those interactions do however play a role during in vitro studies.
Zinc-induced protection against cadmium alteration of drug action.	Pretreatment of male rats with cadmium acetate potentiates the duration of hexobarbital hypnosis and inhibits the rate of hepatic microsomal drug metabolism. Pretreatment of rats with zinc acetate protects against these alterations in drug action elicited by cadmium.
Antagonism by taurine of morphine induced growth hormone secretion.	The intraperitoneal (IP) or intraventricular (IVT) administration of small amounts of taurine did not modify pentobarbital-induced sleep or pituitary hormone release. However, the drastic increment in plasma GH values induced by morphine administration was completely blocked by the IVT injection of the amino acid. Whether taurine plays a physiological role in the control of GH secretion is highly speculative.
Pharmacological studies on tandamine hydrochloride, a potential heterocyclic antidepressant.	Tandamine, a potential heterocyclic antidepressant, was compared with imipramine for its ability to modify: (a) the contractions induced by noradrenaline (NA) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) on the normal and chronically denervated nictitating membrane of the cat, (b) the neuron blocking effect induced by guanethidine in the guinea pig vas deferens, (c) the electroencephalograph and the physostigmine arousal in the rabbit and (d) the sleep pattern of the rat. Both tandamine and imipramine potentiated the NA and 5-HT induced contractions of the normalnictitating membrane and antagonized the effects of gaunethidine on the vas deferens. The potentiation by tandamine and imipramine of the NA and 5-HT contraction of the nictitating membrane disappeared after chronic denervation of the membrane. These results are consistant with the ability of the substances to block the neural uptake of catechol- and indoleamines. Tandamine did not induce EEG synchronization and did not affect the arousal reaction induced by physostigmine. Tandamine also reduced or abolished REM (rapid eye movement) sleep with a concomitant decrease in NREM (non-rapid eye movement) sleep.
Sensitivity to continuous administration of pentobarbital in different strains of mice.	The comparisons of responses to pentobarbital by pellet implantation method with respect to cumulative mortality, narcosis and tolerance development on five strains (ICR, ddY, ddN, C57BL, and C3H) of mice were studied. C3H mice showed most susceptible and sensitive to pentobarbital among the five strains of mice tested. ICR mice were most resistant to the treatment. It appears that the effects of genetic variation could be of importance for future studies in gaining insight of the mechanism of barbiturate tolerance.
The effects of adenosine and 2'-deoxycoformycin on sleep and wakefulness in rats.	The effects of adenosine (12.5 nmol/rat, i.c.v.) and 2'-deoxycoformycin (2.0 mumol/kg, i.p.) on sleep and wakefulness were examined in rats. Adenosine significantly decreased wakefulness and increased both deep slow-wave sleep and total sleep. 2'-Deoxycoformycin, a potent inhibitor of adenosine deaminase, was administered at a dose which did not produce significant sedative and hypnotic effects, when given alone (although a 4-fold greater dose of this drug has been shown to be hypnogenic in rats) in order to examine the possible potentiation of exogenously administered adenosine. No such potentiation was observed, since treatment with both drugs produced effects qualitatively similar, although not statistically significant, to those of adenosine alone. These data clearly indicate that adenosine is a hypnogenic substance in rats and suggest that these effects may involve adenosinergic receptor-mediated modulation of the activity of central adenylate cyclase.
Enzyme-inhibiting action of hydrocortisone and desoxycorticosterone of mixed function oxidases.	Comparative studies have been carried out on the action of two corticosteroids: the mineralocorticoid desoxycorticosterone and the glucocorticoid hydrocortisone, upon single administration in male albino rats, on the hexobarbital sleeping time and the activity of the mixed function oxidases. Applied in equimolar doses, the two steroids prolong the hexobarbital sleeping time, the effect of desoxycorticosterone being stronger. The potentiation of hexobarbital sleeping time by hydrocortisone differs in degree in animals from the different age groups, being most pronounced in mature animals compared with two-week-old immature and old animals. Unlike hydrocortisone, the potentiating effect Of desoxycorticosterone is close in intensity for all age groups studied. Both corticosteroids in single doses (50 mg/kg) inhibit the activity of mixed function oxidases, metabolizing type I substrates--hexobarbital and morphine, the inhibitory effect of desoxycorticosterone being stronger. Hydrocortisone does not influence the metabolism of type II substrates (aniline), while desoxycorticosterone inhibits it considerably. The reasons for the differences observed in the effects of the two compounds are sought in the different involvement of the enzyme systems studied in their metabolism.
Effect of brotizolam on the averaged photopalpebral reflex in man.	The photopalpebral reflex (PPR) is a useful method to assess level of arousal. Healthy males were given either brotizolam (0.0625, 0.125, 0.25 or 0.5 mg) or placebo within a double-blind, crossover design. Changes in PPR and subjective assessments were observed for 5 h after medication. Prolongation of the latencies of PPR were dose dependent, and the amplitude tended to be reduced. These effects appeared within 30 min, and lasted about 4 h. The dose-response curve of the maximum prolongation of the latencies was linear. Sleepiness and slight ataxia were observed after drug ingestion. Sleepiness was correlated with the prolongation of the PPR latencies. Brotizolam could be a potent hypnotic, with rapid onset and moderate duration of action, and it has no severe side-effects.
Residual effects of flurazepam and brotizolam on psychomotor performance.	Residual effects of brotizolam (0.25 mg) and flurazepam (30 mg) were studied in healthy young adults. Performance and subjective assessments were observed from 7 to 8 h after overnight ingestion, and effects were compared with that of placebo. Visuo-motor coordination, visuo-mental processing time, visuo-motor reaction time and reading errors were not impaired with brotizolam. There were residual effects with 30 mg flurazepam. Visuo-motor coordination, visuo-mental processing time, visuo-motor reaction time, and reading errors were impaired compared with placebo and 0.25 mg brotizolam. Subjective assessments of performance correlated with measured performance. There was a decrease with flurazepam (visuo-motor coordination and visuo-mental processing time) compared with placebo.
Effects of brotizolam, flurazepam and placebo upon nocturnal auditory arousal thresholds.	Auditory awakening thresholds (AAT) and the back-to-sleep latency (BSL) after nocturnal awakenings from Stage 2 sleep were studied in normal male subjects after placebo, brotizolam (0.25, 0.375 and 0.50 mg) and flurazepam (30 mg). AAT (dB) was measured in five trials spaced across the night in a 'double awakening' procedure with the second awakening in each trial made from Stage 2 sleep. Each drug condition was associated with elevated mean AAT across the five trials in comparison with placebo. In a trial-by-trial analysis only 0.50 mg brotizolam and 30 mg flurazepam were consistently higher in the first three trials compared with placebo. All active drug conditions decreased the mean BSL across all trials in comparison with placebo, but only 30 mg flurazepam and 0.50 mg brotizolam consistently shortened BSL in the first three trials. Brotizolam (0.50 mg) and 30 mg flurazepam are similar in their effects. The subjective improvement reported in insomniac subjects following hypnotic administration may be related to elevation in arousal thresholds and a quick return to sleep after nocturnal sleep disruption.
Brotizolam: studies of effects on sleep and on performance in young adulthood and in middle age.	Effects of brotizolam (0.2, 0.4 and 0.6 mg), on sleep and performance, were studied in young adults. All doses increased total sleep time, improved the sleep efficiency index, and reduced drowsy sleep and number of awakenings. Brotizolam (0.4 and 0.6 mg) also reduced awake activity. There was some evidence of a delay to the first REM period, but only 0.6 mg reduced the total duration of REM sleep. There were no changes in slow wave sleep. Visuomotor coordination was impaired up to 15.0 h after overnight ingestion of 0.6 mg, but there were no residual effects after the overnight ingestion of 0.2 mg, and with 0.4 mg residual effects did not persist beyond 9.5 h. In middle-aged subjects 0.25 and 0.5 mg were studied. The lower dose (0.25 mg) increased total sleep time, and improved the sleep efficiency index, shortened sleep onset latency, and reduced drowsy sleep. The effect of the higher dose (0.5 mg) was more marked. In a performance study using digit symbol substitution, no residual effect was observed after 0.25 mg brotizolam. Brotizolam is a short-acting hypnotic. Doses up to 0.25 mg are likely to prove adequate over the main span of life and be free of adverse effects on sleep and residual effects on performance.
Effects of antibiotics, minocycline and ampicillin, on human sleep.	The effects of two kinds of antibiotics, minocycline (MNC) and ampicillin (AB-PC), on human sleep were investigated on 19 healthy male students to test for a relationship between human sleep and protein synthesis. These drugs and placebos were capsulated identically in appearance and were given to the subjects using the single blind method. MNC has been proven to prevent protein synthesis whereas AB-PC does not inhibit protein synthesis, and both antibiotics are commonly used in clinical practice. With the administration of a single dose of 200 mg of MNC, an apparent decrease in slow wave sleep (SWS) was revealed on the drug night and the effects lasted through the following two consecutive nights being given a placebo. REM sleep was not reduced on all the recording nights. On the other hand, both SWS and REM sleep were not reduced with the administration of a single dose of 500 mg of AB-PC. These results are different from those previously obtained from animal experiments since many kinds of protein synthesis inhibitors have been proven to suppress mainly REM sleep in animals. It might be supposed that the species difference may be responsible for this difference, and that some proteins or polypeptides induce human sleep, especially SWS.
Behavioral and electroencephalographic study of 7-chloro-1-methyl-5-phenyl-1 H-1,5-benzodiazepine-2,4-(3H,5H)-dione (clobazam)]	Behavioral and electroencephalographic effects of clobazam (CBZ), a 1, 5 benzodiazepine, were investigated in mice, rats and rabbits and compared with the effects of diazepam (DZP) and chlordiazepoxide (CDP). In EEG studies of rabbits, CBZ, DZP and CDP at doses of 2-10 mg/kg, i.v., caused a drowsy pattern, i.e., high voltage slow waves in the frontal cortex and the desynchronization of hippocampal theta wave. EEG arousal responses induced not only by auditory stimulation but also by electric stimulation of the mesencephalic reticular formation were inhibited by CBZ; CBZ was less potent than DZP, but more potent than CDP. On hypothalamic self-stimulation behavior of rats, low rate responses induced by low current brain stimulation, VI or DRL procedure were increased by oral administration of the three drugs. CBZ was less potent than DZP in the above respondings, but the same potency as CDP in VI or DRL responding and more potent in low rate responding induced by low current stimulation. The preventive effect of CBZ on MES convulsion in mice was less potent than DZP, but 2.5 times as potent as CDP. The preventive effect of CBZ was 1.3 times as potent as DZP and 2.5 times as potent as CDP. CBZ reduced the hyperemotionality of olfactory bulbectomized rats, and this effect was less than DZP in suppressing muricide. The muscle relaxant effect of CBZ in inclined screen and rotarod tests of mice was less than that of DZP. CBZ was 2.2 times as potent as CDP in potentiating thiopental sleep in mice, but less than DZP. These results indicate that CBZ is qualitatively similar to 1, 4 benzodiazepines, DZP and CDP, and is more potent than CDP, but less potent than DZP.
Interaction of secalonic acid D with phenobarbital, 3-methyl cholanthrene, and SKF-525A in mice.	Secalonic acid D (SAD) is an acutely toxic and teratogenic fungal metabolite produced by Penicillium oxalium in corn and other cereal grains. Experiments were conducted to study the effects of single and multiple doses of SAD on pentobarbital-induced narcosis, as an index of the modulating effect of SAD on the hepatic drug metabolizing enzymes in mice. The effects of known enzyme modulators-phenobarbital (PB), 3-methyl cholanthrene (3-MC), and diethylaminoethyl diphenylproply acetate hydrochloride (SKF-525A)-on the acute toxicity of SAD in mice were also studied using body weights, mortality, and histopathology as indices. Results of this study failed to demonstrate any modulating effect by SAD of pentobarbital metabolizing enzymes. Pretreatment with SKF-525A, an enzyme inhibitor, enhanced SAD toxicity in mice, whereas pretreatment with PB or 3-MC, known enzyme inducers, had no effect. Further studies of interaction of [14C]SAD with PB and SKF-525A revealed that although neither PB nor SKF-525A altered the ratio of parent compound to total metabolites excreted in bile, SKF-525A significantly reduced the bile flow as well as the elimination of SAD-derived radioactivity in bile. These results strongly suggest the possibility that the effects of SKF-525A, other than the enzyme inhibition, may be responsible for its enhancement of SAD toxicity in mice.
Influence of some GABAergic agents on nitrazepam-induced sleep in the domestic fowl (Gallus domesticus).	The effects of gamma amino butyric acid (GABA), bicuculline and amino-oxyacetic acid (AOAA) on nitrazepam-induced sleep were studied in young chicks. GABA (200-3200 mg/kg) induced a marked sedation in young chicks. It also potentiated nitrazepam (1.6 mg/kg)-induced sleep. Bicuculline (1.25-5.00 mg/kg) effectively antagonized nitrazepam-induced sleep. In addition, it effectively antagonized GABA (1600 mg/kg)-induced potentiation of nitrazepam sleep. AOAA (2.5-7.5 mg/kg) delayed the onset of nitrazepam sleep, but significantly prolonged its duration. Nitrazepam (1.6 mg/kg) synchronized the electroencephalogram (EEG) of the hyperstriatum, optic tectum and reticular formation. Similarly, the electromyograph (EMG) activity was markedly reduced. GABA (1600 mg/kg) synchronized the EEG of the hyperstriatum, optic tectum and reticular formation while the EMG activity was reduced. Administration of GABA (1600 mg/kg) into nitrazepam (1.6 mg/kg)-pretreated chicks induced desynchronization of the EEG of the hyperstriatum, while the EEG of the reticular formation was synchronized. In addition, the EMG activity was reduced. Bicuculline (5 mg/kg) activated the EEG of the hyperstriatum; this effect was antagonized by GABA (1600 mg/kg). Similarly, GABA (1600 mg/kg)-induced decrease in EMG activity, synchronization of the EEG of the optic tectum and reticular formation was antagonized by bicuculline. The present data suggest that GABA potentiated nitrazepam-induced behavioral and electroencephalographical sleep.
Effectiveness of zopiclone as a preoperative hypnotic.	A controlled, double-blind study was made of the efficacy and safety of a new hypnotic, zopiclone, on the preoperative night's sleep by a Joint Study Unit Group of the anesthesiology departments in 6 national hospitals. The following results were found: (1) zopiclone 7.5 and 10 mg and nitrazepam 10 mg were significantly superior to placebo both on the quality of sleep and the mental state of the patient, while no significant differences were observed among these three active drugs; (2) a significantly higher incidence of side-effects was observed for nitrazepam 10 mg than for zopiclone 7.5 and 10 mg and placebo; (3) zopiclone 7.5 and 10 mg and also nitrazepam 10 mg were significantly more useful than placebo, and (4) the above results show that 7.5 and 10 mg of zopiclone are of great benefit to the preoperative night's sleep and have less side-effects than 10 mg of nitrazepam.
Evaluation of zopiclone physical dependence liability in normal volunteers.	The potential of zopiclone, a non-benzodiazepine sedative hypnotic, to induce physical dependence in normal human volunteers was investigated. 9 male subjects (age range 21-39 years) participated in a 56-day double-blind study with random assignment to initial treatment A or B: (A) zopiclone 7.5 mg p.o. nightly for 21 days followed by placebo for 7 days, and (B) placebo nightly for 21 days followed by placebo for 7 days. Heart rate, blood pressure, hand tremor and auditory-evoked EEG were repeatedly measured during the withdrawal periods. No differences in any of these variables between phases were found (beta = 0.90 for mean differences of 16% between phases). Subjects slept longer (mean 28 min, p less than 0.013) on zopiclone than on placebo. Symptoms of state anxiety were greater on days 2 and 4 after discontinuing zopiclone compared to all other withdrawal days (p less than 0.0021). The mean relative increase on days 2 and 4 was 30%. Sleep depth (self-rating scale) was no deeper on drug than on placebo, but during the withdrawal phases, sleep was less deep on days 2 and 4 of withdrawal from zopiclone compared to all other withdrawal days (p less than 0.0001). Subjects were unable to identify the pattern of drug administration on withdrawal, and none reported important symptoms. Discontinuation of zopiclone (7.5 mg for 21 days) is associated with detectable increase in state anxiety and lighter sleep on days 2 and 4 of withdrawal. Quantitatively, similar changes occur with other hypnotic drugs of relatively low dependence liability.
Zopiclone: sleep and performance studies in healthy man.	Effects of 2.5, 5.0, 7.5, and 10.0 mg zopiclone on sleep and on performance the next day were studied in 6 healthy adult males aged between 21 and 33 years. The experiment was double-blind and placebo controlled. 5.0 and 10.0 mg zopiclone decreased the amount of awake activity and drowsy (stage 1) sleep over the first 6 h of sleep, but this effect was only present for the whole sleep period with the 10.0-mg dose. The duration and percentage of stage 3 sleep were increased with 7.5 mg. The 7.5- and 10.0-mg doses increased the combined duration of stages 2, 3, and 4 sleep over the first 6 h and over the whole night. The first period of rapid eye movement sleep was delayed with 7.5 mg, and with 10.0 mg the time spent in rapid eye movement sleep was reduced during the first 6 h of sleep, but not over the whole night. The number of substitutions in the digit symbol substitution test was decreased 9 h after ingestion of 7.5 and 10.0 mg, and the number of symbols copied reduced after 10.0 mg. The clinical dose range of zopiclone is likely to be up to 7.5 mg. The latter dose provides a useful hypnotic effect with minimal residual effects the next day, whilst 5.0 mg is appropriate for those involved in skilled tasks where even the most minor changes in performance during the early part of the next day must be avoided.
Nicotine potentiates sodium pentobarbital but not ethanol induced sleep.	Nicotine potentiates, in a dose dependent manner, the sleep time induced by sodium pentobarbital but not by ethanol. Mecamylamine, a nicotinic receptor antagonist, blocked the nicotine induced increase in sleep time. Atropine itself reduced sleep time but did not change the nicotine effect. It is hypothesized that the central and the peripheral nicotinic receptors play an important role in potentiating sodium pentobarbital induced sleep time.
Effect of 1.1.1 trifluoro-N-(2-methyl-4-phenyl sulfonyl) methane sulfonamide (Destun 50WP) on rat hepatic microsomal enzymes, aniline hydroxylase and amino-pyrine N-demethylase.	Investigations have been carried out to determine the effects of the herbicide 1.1.1 trifluoro-N-(2-methyl-4-phenyl sulfonyl) methane sulfonamide (Destun) on some hepatic microsomal drug metabolizing enzymes in rat. Administration of 100 mg herbicide/kg rat (i.p. or oral) resulted in a stimulation of aniline hydroxylase and p-aminopyrene N-demethylase activities by 1.3 fold and 1.6 fold respectively. A dose-related increase in enzyme activities was observed with a maximum effect at about 100 mg Destun/kg rat. The increased microsomal protein content, liver weight: body weight ratio and decreased sleeping time in the herbicide-treated animals indicated the possibility of Destun being an "inducer". Results of investigations on the kinetic properties of aniline hydroxylase and p-aminopyrene-N-demethylase on administration of Destun suggests that in addition to its inducer effect, the herbicide could stimulate the enzyme activities by decreasing the affinity of these enzymes for their respective substrates.
The relationship between sleep circadian rhythm and central feedback mechanism of gonadal steroid in female guinea pigs.	To examine the relationship between the sleep rhythm and the gonadal feedback system in the guinea pig, the effects of estrous cycle, gonadal steroids and brain deafferentiations on the sleep rhythm were studied and the following results were obtained; 1) the guinea pigs did not show an apparent circadian rhythmicity in the sleep-wakefulness cycle but showed an ultradian rhythm, whereas, the activity rhythm was circadian, 2) the rhythm in paradoxical sleep(PS) showed changes associated with the estrous cycle which were characterized by a decrease and rebound-like increase in PS amounts on the day of proestrus, 3) the horizontal deafferentation above the medial preoptic area at the level of the anterior commissure (MPO roof cut) did not disrupt the estrous cycle dependent changes in the PS rhythm, but the prechiasmatic deafferentiation of the medial basal hypothalamus (PCD) and the large complete deafferentation of the medial basal hypothalamus (CDL) disrupted them, 4) ovariectomy (OVX) did not result in any changes in sleep and activity rhythms, 5) an administration of estradiol benzoate (E2) to OVX guinea pig caused a decrease in the amount of PS and an administration of progesterone (P) 48h after E2 caused a more pronounced decrease and rebound-like increase in the amount of PS, 6) the MPO roof cut did not affect the steroidal modification of the PS rhythm and the PCD disrupted it, while the CDL-animal also showed a E2-induced PS decrease. From these results, it appears that the guinea pig may be a circadian animal, but this may not be seen in the sleep-wakefulness cycle, and the estrous cycle dependent changes in the PS rhythm may be the reflection of steroidal modification of the sleep rhythm and the site of action may be the inside of the medial preoptic anterior hypothalamic structures, but this area may also be affected by the output from the medial basal hypothalamus.
Influence of impairment of the immune system on hepatic biotransformation reactions, their postnatal development and inducibility.	Neither destruction of thymus by N-methylnitrosourea or by X-rays nor thymectomy or splenectomy in rats of different ages affected hexobarbital sleeping time, ethylmorphine N-demethylation or ethoxycoumarin O-deethylation significantly and systematically. Thymectomy or thymus destruction by x-rays of newborn rats did not significantly influence postnatal development or inducibility by phenobarbital of the monooxygenase reactions.
Analysis of the action of the neuropeptide-inducing delta-sleep in cats and white rats.	Suboccipital administration of the oligopeptide to adult cats and white rats in a dose of 15 and 20 micrograms/kg induces the appearance of electrographic (delta-sleep) and behavioral sleep within 15-25 min. Administration of the oligopeptide induces a substantial increase in the thresholds of the response of the EEG to phonostimulation. A substantial lag (50-90 min) in the onset of paradoxical sleep is noted, which is considered by the authors as a manifestation of inhibition, exerted by the neuropeptide on the further development of the sleep mechanisms. On the basis of the data obtained it is concluded that natural sleep and that induced by the neuropeptide are nonequivalent.
Suppression of REM and delta sleep by apomorphine in man: a dopamine mimetic effect.	Apomorphine, a direct stimulant of dopamine receptors, was given in nonemetic doses by continuous IV infusion for 180-240 min during night sleep in normal subjects. During apomorphine infusion, a significant reduction of stage (S)4 and an abolition of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep occurred. The percent duration of S2 was significantly increased. In the 240 min following interruption of 240-min infusion of apomorphine, a significant increase of S4 and REM percent duration was observed. The effect of apomorphine infusion on sleep was prevented by the administration of haloperidol or sulpiride, two dopamine receptor blocking agents. This suggests that it is due to a dopamine mimetic action.
Activity of Tephrosia vogelii, ichthyotoxic Papillonaceae from Madagascars on the central nervous system]	Specific pharmacological tests allowed us to locate, at the level of the central nervous system, an impact of an extract of Tephrosia vogelii, an endemic Madagascar plant empirically used for its ichtyotoxic properties.
General pharmacology of aclacinomycin A (author's transl)]	The general pharmacology of aclacinomycin A, a new antitumor antibiotic, was studied in mice, rats, guinea-pigs, frogs, rabbits and dogs. The LD50 values of aclacinomycin A were 32.5 mg/kg (i.v.), 30.1 mg/kg (i.p.), 33.9 mg/kg (s.c.) and 69.7 mg/kg (p.o.), respectively in male mice, and 28.8 mg/kg (i.v.), 21.1 mg/kg (i.p.), 26.4 mg/kg (s.c.) and 58.6 mg/kg (p.o.), respectively in male rats. Aclacinomycin A had no effect on the central nervous system except potenciation of the pentobarbital sodium-induced anesthesia in mice. The contraction of isolated heart was stimulated in frogs while slightly inhibited in rabbits at higher concentration. Transient increases in the heart rate and the blood flow of peripheral vasculature were observed but the blood pressure was slightly lowered with respiratory excitation in anesthetized rabbits and dogs. The ECG (II-lead) demonstrated slight depression of R wave amplitude and slight sinus arrhythmia in dogs. Aclacinomycin A inhibited the contraction of isolated smooth muscle and antagonized some spasmogens. It inhibited the spontaneous movement of isolated rabbit ileum and rat uterus at higher concentration, and antagonized acetylcholine, histamine, serotonin and barium chloride in the contraction of isolated guinea-pig ileum. The antagonism was competitive to oxytocin and noncompetitive to acetylcholine in rat uterus, and noncompetitive to noradrenaline in rat deferent duct. The drug showed no apparent effect on the gastrointestinal propulsion in mice and on mucous membrane of the stomach in rats. However, it depressed gastric acid secretion in rats while slightly increased bile secretion in guinea-pigs. Urine volume and urinary excretion of electrolytes (Na+, K+) decreased in rats. Vascular permeability was slightly inhibited by the drug in rabbits and mice. No hemolytic effect was shown. Aclacinomycin A showed no antigenicity in anaphylactic reaction and SCHULTZ-DALE reaction in guinea-pigs.
Piperidine enhances sleep-related and insulin-induced growth hormone secretion: further evidence for a cholinergic secretory mechanism.	Piperidine, a nicotinic cholinergic receptor stimulator, was used in paired design studies of sleep-related and insulin-induced GH and PRL secretion. For the sleep studies, 100 mg piperidine or an equal volume of saline were infused for 30 min starting at sleep onset in eight normal volunteers. The same dose of piperidine was infused for 30 min (beginning 15 min before insulin injection) in an additional eight volunteers undergoing insulin tolerance tests. After piperidine administration, there was a significant (P less than 0.01) enhancement of sleep-related GH secretion, abut no change in PRL. GH concentrations during the first 2 h of sleep were 7.2 +/- 1.2 ng/ml after saline and 15.2 +/-2.9 ng/ml after piperidine (P less than 0.01). No alteration in any measured sleep parameter was noted with the drug. Piperidine did not affect the daytime insulin-induced secretion of either GH or PRL, as assessed by an analysis of variance. However, paired analysis of increments and areas under the response curves indicated a statistically significant effect for GH but not PRL. The maximum GH increment with piperidine was 48.0 +/- 4.3 ng/ml, compared to 36.8 +/- 3.6 ng/ml with saline (P less than 0.01). Piperidine given alone did not influence daytime concentrations of GH. These data are consistent with the view proposed by us, on the bass of methoscopolamine inhibition of nocturnal GH secretion, that cholinergic pathways play a facilitatory role in sleep-related and insulin-induced GH secretion. Thus, cholinergic mechanisms stimulate GH secretion. Nicotinic as well as muscarinic pathways appear to be involved, although the quantitative nicotinic contribution seems to be smaller than the associated with muscarinic sites.
Aspects of sleep, daytime vigilance, mental performance and psychotropic drug treatment in the elderly.	As people grow older, their subjective and objective sleep patterns change: sleep is often experienced as less deep, more broken, less refreshing - and these alterations find their objective correlate in polygraphic sleep recordings. Reductions in high amplitude slow wave sleep, rapid eye movement (REM) sleep and sleep maintenance are the best documented of these. Besides, there are changes in the EEG pattern during sleep (fewer and slower sleep spindels, fewer K-complexes and other phasic events). Daytime EEG recordings in the elderly are characterized by slowing of the dominant alpha rhythm, diffuse or localized slow waves and reduced reactivity to stimuli. Only few studies, however, have addressed the question of how daytime EEG alterations are related to changes of the sleep polygram, and how these electrophysiological parameters relate to measures of mental performance which also undergo changes with aging. A review of published results and data from our own studies suggest that, within the non-pathological range, few correlations exist between polygraphic sleep, daytime EEG and mental performance data if age as an independent factor is kept constant. The only relations that were significant in some of the studies had opposite directions in different subjects' samples. Thus, until more is known, these 3 areas of assessment should be studied and conceptualized separately. Our lack of understanding in this field is further illustrated by results of drug studies: compounds with confirmed effects on mental performance and mood in young subjects, such as amphetamine, fail to be useful stimulants or antidepressants in the elderly, and drugs like co-dergocrine mesylate ((Hydergine) which are of use in mentally deteriorating old persons have no effects on vigilance and mental performance in young, healthy subjects. Therefore, extrapolations from one level of assessment to another and from experiments in young subjects to studies in the elderly appear unwarranted at the present time.
Behavioral alterations during prolonged low level continuous amphetamine administration in a monkey family group (Cercopithecus aethiops).	The continuous presence of endogenous psychotomimetic compounds has frequently been hypothesized in human psychopathology. In related drug-based animal models it would be necessary to demonstrate accumulating behavioral abnormalities despite a low constant drug-level. Using subcutaneously implanted slow-release capsules containing a d-amphetamine base, we studied behavioral effects during 11-weeks of low level but continuous release of this psychotomimetic drug in a socially housed family group of monkeys (drugged father and mother with undrugged infant). Following implantation, locomotion was only slightly affected throughout the drug period. Among visual behaviors, staring gradually increased and, after 5-7 weeks, peaked at a level ten-fold higher than pre-implant levels. Except for infant/female contact, social behaviors were decreased throughout the drug period. Sleep during nights declined by about one-third for the first 8 weeks. In vitro measurements of this capsule type confirmed amphetamine release at 1st-week levels for ca. 8 weeks. Low level prolonged amphetamine intoxication apparently can lead to increasing behavioral abnormalities despite relatively stable drug-release levels.
Effects of melatonin on sleep and neurochemistry in the rat.	1 The effects of intraperitoneally administered melatonin on sleep and brain neurochemistry in the rat were studied by use of EEG recording and standard fluorescence techniques. 2 Melatonin, 10 mg/kg, reduced time to sleep onset and time spent awake but increased both slow wave and paradoxical sleep. Qualitatively similar but smaller effects were produced by a dose of 2.5 mg/kg. 3 Neither dose of melatonin altered normal EEG patterns or disrupted normal sleep behaviour. 4 Melatonin, 20 mg/Kg, did not significantly alter concentrations of tryptophan, 5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, noradrenaline or dopamine in any part of the brain. 5 it is concluded that the sleep promoting activity of melatonin cannot be related to gross changes in brain indoleamine and catecholamine levels.
Investigations on the synthesis and properties of new derivatives of ethyl 3H-2-imino-7-methyl-4-oxopyrido [3,2-e]-1,3-thiazine-6-carboxylate and isomeric compounds.	Condensation of diethyl 2-chloro-6-methylpyridine-3,5-dicarboxylate (IV) with thiourea and alkyl or alkenyl N-mono- and N,N'-disubstituted thioureas gives mainly the corresponding derivatives of ethyl 3H-2-imino-7-methyl-4-oxopyrido [3,2-e]-1,3-thiazine-6-carboxylate (VI-XII). As by-products isomeric derivatives of ethyl 7-methyl-4-oxo-2-thioxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydropyrido [2,3-d) pyrimidine-6-carboxylate (XIII-XVIII) are formed.
Investigations on the synthesis and properties of new derivatives of methyl 3H-2-imino-7-methyl-4-oxopyrido [3,2-e]-1,3-thiazine-5-carboxylate.	Condensation of dimethyl 2-chloro-6-methylpyridine-3,4-dicarboxylate with thiourea and its N-substituted derivatives is described. It has been found that depending on the kind of substituents in the starting thiourea derivatives, pyrido [3,2-e]-1,3-thiazine or pyrido [2,3-d] pyrimidine derivatives were formed.
Effects of theophylline on behavioral state development in the newborn rabbit.	On Day 1 of life (Day 0 = birth), the sleep-wake behavioral states of rabbits were measured for 2 hr, after which half the animals received 10 mg/kg of theophylline by intubation (N = 16), whereas the remainder received normal saline (N = 17). Behavioral states were then measured on Days 2, 3, 5, 7, 15, 20, 30 and 40. Theophylline sharply reduced active sleep starting on Day 2 and continuing through Day 20. The development of quiet sleep was delayed for 10 days in the drug-treated group. Paralleling the loss of active sleep was a major increase in wake between Days 2 to 20. The drug also affected the intermediate states of sleep-wake transition and active-quiet sleep transition. The data raise major questions about the safety of a drug widely used in the newborn intensive care setting.
Histamine-induced arousal in the conscious and pentobarbital-pretreated rat.	Histamine has been shown to possess many neurotransmitter-like properties, and a variety of studies indicate that central histamine may function in modulating behavioral arousal. To examine this possibility further, histamine was administered into the lateral cerebral ventricles of the conscious and pentobarbital-anesthetized rat. In the conscious animal, histamine induced a significant increase in spontaneous motor activity which consisted of increased grooming and exploratory behaviors (sniffing, rearing and locomotion) as compared to saline-treated controls. In the pentobarbital-pretreated rat, histamine caused a dose-related decrease in narcosis duration and hypothermia without altering the disposition of pentobarbital in brain or plasma. Administration of compounds structurally related to histamine did not alter spontaneous activity or shorten narcosis duration. While pretreatment with the H2-histamine antagonist, cimetidine, was no effective, H1-histamine antagonists were found to abolish histamine-induced arousal. Administration of haloperidol in doses that significantly attenuated increased spontaneous motor activity by amphetamine did not alter histamine-induced hyperactivity. Likewise, atropine did not significantly alter histamine-induced arousal. These data support the hypothesis that histamine may function in modulating behavioral arousal.
Duration of response to pentobarbital of female vs male albino and pigmented rats.	We measured responses to pentobarbital of females and males of Sim:(LE) ancestry to test Long-Evans rats for a sex difference in drug response, i.e., higher pentobarbital susceptibility in females. We studied littermate quadruplets made up of an albino male and female and a black-hooded male and female to determine if the sex differences, if any, would be seen in both pigmented and albino rats. The rats were injected weekly IP with sodium pentobarbital; each rat's dosage increased 10 mg/kg per week to the dose that was lethal. In no case was the onset of the drug's effects consistently more rapid in the females. In both albino and hooded rats the drug effects' duration was significantly longer in the females. The females' lethal doses were lower than the males', but not significantly. Thus for at least one drug response measure there is a sex difference in drug response in pigmented and albino Long-Evans rats.
Prevention of thioacetamide-induced liver necrosis by prior aminoacetonitrile or imidazole administration.	Prior administration of aminoacetonitrile (AAN) or imidazole but not isoxazole to rats, was able partially to prevent thioacetamide (TAC)-induced liver necrosis at 24 h. AAN and isoxazole did not prolong the pentobarbital sleeping time of the rats, while imidazole did. These and previous observations suggest a possible participation of non-cytochrome P-450 (P-450)-dependent aminoxidases in TAC activation to a necrogenic metabolite.
Effect of ethanol on taurine concentration in the brain.	The taurine concentration in the brain was decreased in ethanol-dependent rats, but returned to normal soon after withdrawal of ethanol. It was not affected by acute ethanol administration.
Pharmacological responses to pentobarbital in different strains of mice.	This study was designed to assess the strain differences in pentobarbital toxicity, narcosis, the development of tolerance and physical dependence, the half-life of pentobarbital and the activities of hepatic microsomal electron transfer chain in DBA/2J, C57BL/6J and ICR mice. The comparisons of responses to acute pentobarbital-induced narcosis with two different doses revealed that DBA was most sensitive among these strains. When continuous administration of pentobarbital by pentobarbital pellet implantation is concerned, four criteria were used to assess strain differences: 1) determination of the duration of the loss of righting reflex during pentobarbital pellet implantation; 2) cumulative mortality after pentobarbital pellet implantation; 3) degree of tolerance development after 3 days of s.c. implantation of a 75-mg pentobarbital pellet by the relative decrease in the pentobarbital sleeping time; and 4) assessment of hyperexcitability by pentylenetetrazol- and audiogenic-induced seizures after pellet removal. The order of susceptibility to continuous pentobarbital pellet implantation was found to be as follows: DBA/2J > C57BL/6J > ICR. The biochemical data also revealed that the half-life of pentobarbital in DBA/2J mice was significantly longer than that of C57BL/6J or ICR mice in both brain and serum. Further studies also showed that DBA/2J mice have lower hepatic cytochrome P-450 and cytochrome b5 levels and NADPH dehydrogenase and NADPH-cytochrome c reductase activities as compared with the other strains of mice. However, these parameters were markedly induced in DBA/2J mice after the development of tolerance to pentobarbital. It appears that the differences in genetic variation could be of importance for further studies in gaining insight of the mechanism of barbiturate tolerance and dependence.
Mice tolerant to nitrous oxide are also tolerant to alcohol.	Mice exposed to 50% nitrous oxide for 3 weeks become tolerant to nitrous oxide. The nitrous oxide-tolerant animals are also tolerant to ethanol, as measured by a 40% decrease in ethanol-induced sleep times and 15% higher blood alcohol levels upon awakening compared to control mice raised in air. These results suggest a common mechanism for the development of tolerance to both alcohol and nitrous oxide.
Effect of naloxone, a specific opioid inhibitor, on blood pressure fall during sleep.	The study was designed to investigate the possible role of endogenous opioids in the fall in blood pressure (BP) seen during initial sleep. Seven normal men, ages 20-30 years, were studied for three consecutive nights. Each night, electroencephalogram, chin electromyogram, electrooculogram, heart rate (all continuously), and blood pressure (every 15 minutes) were recorded. Night 1 was used for orientation. On nights 2 and 3, subjects received, in randomized order, an infusion of naloxone 0.2 mg/kg over 1 minute or volume-matched saline. Blood pressure data from the first 4 hours of non-rapid eye movement sleep were combined. On the placebo night, systolic BP fell from 114.6 +/- 6 mm Hg to 103.7 +/- 8 mm Hg (+/- SD) (p < 0.05, Wilcoxon rank-sum test). On the naloxone night, systolic BP did not change. Neither diastolic BP nor heart rate were influenced by naloxone. these data suggest that endogenous opioids could be involved in the fall in systolic BP seen during initial sleep.
Anaesthetic requirement in mice selectively bred for differences in ethanol sensitivity.	Anaesthetic requirements for nitrous oxide, enflurane and isoflurane were determined in mice selectively bred for their susceptibility ("long-sleep" mice) or resistance ("short-sleep" mice) to alcohol. Nitrous oxide and enflurane requirements, measured by the rolling-response test, were 34 and 20% greater, respectively, in short-sleep mice than in long-sleep mice. Although isoflurane requirement was 39% greater when measured by the tail-clamp test, it was not significantly different when measured by the rolling-response test. The greater anaesthetic requirement for short-sleep mice was not associated with a different synaptic membrane phospholipid, fatty acid or cholesterol composition.
Fos and serotonin immunoreactivity in the raphe nuclei of the cat during carbachol-induced active sleep: a double-labeling study.	The microinjection of carbachol into the nucleus pontis oralis produces a state which is polygraphically and behaviorally similar to active sleep (rapid eye movement sleep). In the present study, using double-labeling techniques for serotonin and the protein product of c-fos (Fos), we sought to examine whether immunocytochemically identified serotonergic neurons of the raphe nuclei of the cat were activated, as indicated by their expression of c-fos, during this pharmacologically-induced behavioral state (active sleep-carbachol). Compared with control cats, which were injected with saline, active sleep-carbachol cats exhibited a significantly greater number of c-fos-expressing neurons in the raphe dorsalis, magnus and pallidus. Whereas most of the c-fos-expressing neurons in the raphe dorsalis were small, those in the raphe magnus were medium-sized and in the raphe pallidus they were small and medium-sized. The mean number of serotonergic neurons that expressed c-fos (i.e. double-labeled cells) was similar in control and active sleep-carbachol cats. These data indicate that there is an increased number of non-serotonergic, c-fos-expressing neurons in the raphe dorsalis, magnus and pallidus during the carbachol-induced state.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effects of bedtime administration of zolpidem on circadian and sleep-related hormonal profiles in normal women.	Short-acting benzodiazepine hypnotics may phase-shift circadian rhythms and improve adaptation of sleep patterns to abrupt time shifts, depending on the timing of administration. The aim of the present study was to determine whether bedtime administration of zolpidem, a non-benzodiazepine hypnotic, causes alterations in circadian rhythmicity or in the normal interactions between sleep and hormones. Eight normal women (aged 21-33 years) each participated in a baseline study and a study with zolpidem administration. On each occasion, blood samples were obtained at 20-minute intervals for 25 hours, starting at 1000 hours. Zolpidem (10 mg) was given orally at 2245 hours. Zolpidem administration was associated with an increase in stages III + IV sleep. Cortisol, melatonin, thyrotropin and growth hormone profiles were similar in both experimental conditions. In contrast, though remaining in the normal range, the nocturnal elevation of prolactin was enhanced two-fold in all subjects after zolpidem during early sleep, and prolactin levels were still 50% higher than baseline in late sleep. Morning levels were similar in both studies. In conclusion, bedtime administration of 10 mg zolpidem, a standard clinical dosage, systematically induces a transient moderate hyperprolactinemia, but does not alter other sleep-related hormonal secretions or endocrine markers of circadian rhythmicity.
Sleep, depression and antidepressive treatments (2)]	Sleep research in depressive disorders has advanced considerably in the last two decades. In this review we highlight the different facets of this research, including neurophysiological descriptions of sleep disturbances in depression and data regarding the effects of antidepressant treatments on sleep. The available information is discussed taking into consideration a possible pathogenic role of certain sleep changes in depression, as assumed by several theoretical models. The scope of these models and their explanatory power are briefly analysed. Some comments are made on conceptual and methodological problems in the field of sleep research in psychiatric disorders.
Pharmacologically induced changes in arousal: effects on behavioral and electrophysiologic measures of alertness and attention.	The relationships between the diffuse subcortical neurotransmitter systems and behavioral and physiologic measures of alertness and attention are not well understood. This study was designed to further understand these relationships. In this double-blind experiment, 23 subjects ingested methylphenidate, diphenhydramine or placebo on 3 different days and performed behavioral and cognitive tasks including covert orienting of spatial attention and visual search tasks. Subjective and physiologic measures of alertness included EEG frequency analysis, EEG event-related desynchronization, and amount of sleep and sleep onset time in the unstimulated eyes closed state. Performance on the cognitive tasks improved with MP and worsened with DPHA, but there were no specific attentional effects. The best measures of alertness were based on self-rated scales and on EEG recorded in the unstimulated eyes closed state. These observations suggest that methylphenidate and diphenhydramine primarily affected overall state and that healthy humans were able to partially compensate for the pharmacologically induced alertness changes during cognitive task performance.
Inhibition of nitric oxide synthesis inhibits rat sleep.	Previous findings indicate that nitric oxide (NO) may play a role in the regulation of sleep-wake activity. In rabbits, blocking the production of endogenous NO by a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, N omega-nitro-L-arginine (L-NAME) suppresses spontaneous sleep and interferes the somnogenic actions of interleukin 1. In the present experiments we extended our earlier work by studying the long-term effects of L-NAME treatment on sleep-wake activity including power spectra analyses of the electroencephalogram (EEG) in rats. Rats implanted with EEG electrodes, brain thermistor, and intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) guide cannula were injected i.c.v. with vehicle or 0.2, 1, or 5 mg L-NAME at light onset. In separate experiments, rats were injected intraperitoneally (i.p.) with L-NAME three times (50, 50, 100 mg/kg), 12-12 h apart. Both i.c.v. and i.p. injections of L-NAME elicited decreases in time spent in NREMS and REMS. After i.c.v. injection of 5 mg L-NAME the sleep responses were long-lasting; NREMS did not return to baseline even 72 h after injection. EEG delta-wave activity during NREMS (slow wave activity) was also suppressed after 0.2 and 5 mg L-NAME. Brain temperature was slightly increased after the two lower doses of L-NAME, whereas there was a transient decrease in Tbr after 5 mg L-NAME. Acute i.p. injection of 50 mg/kg L-NAME elicited an immediate decrease in NREMS which lasted for approximately 2 h. The second injection of 50 mg/kg L-NAME and the following injection of 100 mg/kg L-NAME induced biphasic decreases in NREMS but not REMS.
Muramyl peptides and sleep]	Effects of muramyl peptides from bacterial cell walls (MDP and GMDP), their fragments, steric isomers and structural analogues were studied on sleep in rabbits. An increase in the SWS, decrease in PS, rise in body temperature were found following minimal doses, whereas pathological responses in the EEG and sleep as well as pyrogenic effects occurred after higher doses. The GMDP analogues affected sleep weakly, and isomers and fragments were inactive. Possible role of muramyl peptides in normal and pathological regulation of sleep is discussed.
Muramyl peptides and the functions of sleep.	Muramyl peptides (MPs) are bacterially derived sleep factors which stimulate slow wave sleep. In the neonate, MPs are capable of inducing quiet sleep and suppressing active sleep. Given that active sleep is thought to be important for brain development during this period, the possibility that changes in the availability of MPs in the neonate may affect brain development was examined. Rat pups were given muramyl dipeptide (MDP) twice daily for the first 14 days post partum. It was hypothesised that MDP would stimulate quiet sleep at the expense of active sleep as has been shown in the young rabbit. There was no effect on neonatal levels of quiet sleep or active sleep. There was, however, a variety of effects, apparently unrelated to the sleep functions of MDP. These effects were changes in adult learning, serotonin metabolism and brain anatomy. The function of sleep in the mediation of the sleep-independent effects of MPs was examined, in particular the opposite effects of MDP on host immunity depending on the sleepiness of the host. In this light sleep does indeed serve to mediate the effects of MPs and it is speculated that many of the effects observed here may change in response to sleep levels in individuals. The notion that autonomic signalling between brain and spleen is more efficient during sleep is presented as an example of a function of sleep that may modulate the immunological effects of MPs.
Failure of nocturnal prolactin suppression by methysergide to entrain changes in testosterone in normal men.	In order to investigate further the postulated relationship between the secretion of PRL and testosterone, 10 normal young men were studied during polygraphically recorded sleep. Concentrations of LH and testosterone were measured in plasma every 20 min, and the results were analyzed in relation to sleep parameters and previously reported (J Clin Invest 56: 690, 1975) concentrations of PRL. All subjects were studied on a control night after placebo administration and on an experimental night after ingestion of the serotonin receptor blocker, methysergide. Analysis of variance revealed that concentrations of testosterone rose gradually during sleep on both nights, as has been noted in previous studies. Highest LH values occurred during stage 1 sleep, but were only 25% higher than the lowest values, which were seen in stage 4. As shown previously, PRL concentrations were markedly suppressed by methysergide treatment. However, no significant change in testosterone values were observed on the methysergide nights as compared to the control nights. When the data were analyzed by a correlational approach, again, no significant relation between concentrations of PRL and testosterone was found. Although these data do not support the concept that PRL-stimulated testosterone secretion occurs during the night in normal men, this study does not rule out the possibility that such a mechanism may be operative during daytime hours, or under conditions of PRL stimulation rather than PRL suppression.
Self-inhibitory dopamine-receptors and central effects of apomorphine.	Apomorphine, a central dopamine-receptor agonist, is well known to produce excitatory effects in animals. However, low doses exert depressant effects as hypomotility, sedation and sleep. The mechanism of these effects are discussed in terms of a stimulation by apomorphine of DA-receptors, different from the post-synaptic ones, provided of an inhibitory effect on DA-synthesis and on the firing of dopaminergic neurons.
Apomorphine as a preferential stimulant of self-inhibitory dopamine receptors in man.	In man, non emetic doses of apomorphine elicit a series of behavioural, neurological and psychological changes which are difficult to ascribe to the stimulation of postsynaptic dopamine receptors. Since similar effects are elicited by neuroleptic drugs, the functional changes induced by apomorphine in man might be interpreted as being the result of a decreased dopaminergic activity. The sedation and sleep, the improvement of choreic movements and the antipsychotic effect induced by non emetic doses of apomorphine are prevented by specific dopamine receptor blockers. These responses therefore are mediated through a stimulation of dopamine receptors leading to a decreased dopaminergic transmission. This new type of receptors might be identified with the so called "self-inhibitory" dopamine receptors.
Nitric oxide synthase inhibition decreases pontine acetylcholine release.	This study tested the hypothesis that inhibition of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) in the medial pontine reticular formation (mPRF) would cause decreased acetylcholine (ACh) release. Microdialysis of cat mPRF permitted measurement of ACh during states of wakefulness, non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. ACh release during microdialysis with Ringers (control) was compared to ACh release during microdialysis with 10 mM NG-nitro-L-arginine (NLA). The NOS inhibitor NLA caused a significant reduction in ACh released from the mPRF during wakefulness, NREM sleep, and REM sleep. This reduction in mPRF ACh release elicited by NLA suggests that nitric oxide (NO) contributes to cholinergic neurotransmission in the pontine reticular formation.
Hyperactivity of central noradrenergic and CRF systems is involved in social isolation-induced decrease in pentobarbital sleep.	The modulatory effects of the central noradrenergic and CRF systems on the pentobarbital-induced hypnotic activity were investigated in socially isolated mice. Pentobarbital-induced sleeping time decreased depending on the duration of isolation period and reached the minimum at 4 weeks after the isolation. The intermale aggressive behavior tested in isolated mice increased along with the decrease of hypnotic activity of pentobarbital. I.c.v. injection of CRF (corticotropin-releasing factor; 0.6-2.1 nmol) and i.p. injection of yohimbine (0.5-1 mg/kg), an alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist, significantly decreased the pentobarbital-induced sleeping time in group-housed but not in socially isolated mice while alpha-helical CRF9-41 (alpha hCRF; 3.3-6.5 nmol i.c.v.), a CRF antagonist, and clonidine (12.5-100 micrograms/kg i.p. and 7.5-15 nmol i.c.v.), an alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist, recovered the hypnotic activity of pentobarbital decreased by social isolation to the level in group-housed mice without changing the activity observed in group-housed animals. alpha hCRF (6.5 nmol i.c.v.) significantly abolished the yohimbine (1 mg/kg i.p.)-induced decrease in the hypnotic activity of pentobarbital in group-housed mice. Propranolol (50-100 nmol i.c.v. and 5-10 mg/kg i.p.), a beta-adrenoceptor antagonist, and prazosin (5-10 nmol i.c.v. and 250-500 micrograms/kg i.p.), an alpha 1-adrenergic antagonist, significantly and dose-dependently recovered the hypnotic activity of pentobarbital in socially isolated mice to the level in group-housed mice.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effects of daytime administration of zolpidem versus triazolam on memory.	To determine whether zolpidem (an imidazopyridine hypnotic) produces amnestic effects which are similar to those produced by triazolam (a benzodiazepine hypnotic), 70 subjects were administered either triazolam (0.125, 0.25, or 0.5 mg), zolpidem (5, 10, or 15 mg) or placebo, then tested on Simulated Escape, Restricted Reminding, and Paired-Associates memory tests at 1.5 hours post-dosing (i.e., near the time of estimated peak blood concentration for both drugs) and again at 6 hours post-dosing. Triazolam 0.5 mg produced the greatest memory impairment at both test times, and also produced the greatest degree of sedation during intervening daytime naps in a non-sleep-conducive environment. Other doses of triazolam and zolpidem produced less memory impairment, but also failed to significantly enhance sleep. The results are consistent with the view that the amnestic and hypnotic effects of these sleep-inducing medications are functionally coupled.
Preventive and curative effects of Artemisia absinthium on acetaminophen and CCl4-induced hepatotoxicity.	1. Effect of aqueous-methanolic extract of Artemisia absinthium (Compositae) was investigated against acetaminophen- and CCl4-induced hepatic damage. 2. Acetaminophen produced 100% mortality at the dose of 1 g/kg in mice while pretreatment of animals with plant extract (500 mg/kg) reduced the death rate to 20%. 3. Pretreatment of rats with plant extract (500 mg/kg, orally twice daily for two days) prevented (P < 0.01) the acetaminophen (640 mg/kg) as well as CCl4 (1.5 ml/kg)-induced rise in serum transaminases (GOT and GPT). 4. Post-treatment with three successive doses of extract (500 mg/kg, 6 hr) restricted the hepatic damage induced by acetaminophen (P < 0.01) but CCl4-induced hepatotoxicity was not altered (P > 0.05). 5. Plant extract (500 mg/kg) caused significant prolongation (P < 0.05) in pentobarbital (75 mg/kg)-induced sleep as well as increased strychnine-induced lethality in mice suggestive of inhibitory effect on microsomal drug metabolizing enzymes (MDME). 6. These results indicate that the crude extract of Artemisia absinthium exhibits hepatoprotective action partly through MDME inhibitory action and validates the traditional use of plant in hepatic damage.
A double-blind comparison of Org 3770, amitriptyline, and placebo in major depression.	A 6-week, double-blind, dose titration study was performed to evaluate efficacy and safety of the new antidepressant Org 3770 in comparison with amitriptyline and placebo.
Benzodiazepines for insomnia in community-dwelling elderly: a review of benefit and risk.	To critically assess and summarize the beneficial effects of benzodiazepine therapy for insomnia in community-dwelling elders, a systematic search was undertaken to review all published clinical trials and sleep laboratory studies. The risk of injury for benzodiazepine users was also reviewed. Ten studies met inclusion criteria for assessing benefit. There are no studies regarding the long-term effectiveness of benzodiazepines for the treatment of sleep disorders in the elderly. In the sleep laboratory setting, triazolam 0.125 mg, flurazepam 15 mg, and estazolam 1 mg improved sleep latency by 27 to 30 minutes and increased total sleep time by 47 to 81 minutes for the first 2 to 3 nights of treatment, compared with baseline measurements taken while the patients were receiving placebo. In contrast to these modest short-term benefits, there is an association between the use of benzodiazepines with a long half-life, eg, flurazepam, diazepam, and chlordiazepoxide, and an increased risk of hip fracture in the elderly. Triazolam can cause rebound insomnia as well as anterograde amnesia. Clinicians should discontinue their prescribing of long-acting benzodiazepines for elderly patients with insomnia. More research is needed on the effects of nondrug interventions as well as on short- and intermediate-acting benzodiazepines, such as oxazepam and temazepam, to treat insomnia in community-dwelling elderly.
The immediate effects of intravenous specific nutrients on EEG sleep.	This study examined the immediate influence of intravenous amino acids and glucose on sleep as measured by all-night EEG recording. The study on 9 normal female subjects was of a latin-square design. Slow wave sleep (SWS) was increased by both solutions whilst dream sleep (REM) was decreased by amino acids and increased by glucose. Total sleep time was not affected. Subjective feelings as to restlessness, quality and depth of sleep under the impact of the various solutions were gathered. The work further elucidates the effect of nutrition on sleep and supports certain theories as to the function of the main sleep component.
Sleep patterns in cat induced by gammahydroxybutyric acid.	Intravenous injections of gammahydroxybutyric acid (GHBA) (150-200 mg/kg) induce desynchronized sleep (DS) in the cat. This was shown by recording the EEG, eye-movements, the neck EMG, heart-rate and arterial pressure. The decreases in arterial pressure were not different from those recorded during naturally occurring DS. GHBA, given at doses above 200 mg/kg induced anaesthesia, during which arterial pressure was elevated. At the end of GHBA-induced sleep or anaesthesia there was a stage during which the animals were ataxic. The EEG showed a hypersynchronous spike pattern and arterial pressure was markedly elevated.
Effects of cilazapril and nitrendipine on blood pressure, mood, sleep, and cognitive function in elderly hypertensive patients: an Italian multicenter study.	To evaluate its antihypertensive efficacy and safety in elderly hypertensive patients, the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor cilazapril was compared to the calcium antagonist nitrendipine in a randomized, double-blind, multicenter trial with 114 subjects (mean age, 68 years; diastolic blood pressure, 90-115 mm Hg; systolic blood pressure, 140-220 mm Hg). After a 1-month placebo washout period, patients received either cilazapril, 2.5-5 mg, or nitrendipine, 10-20 mg, once daily for 12 weeks. After 4 weeks, the dose was doubled in non-responders. The higher dosage level was administered to 42% of patients in the cilazapril-treated group and to 47% in the nitrendipine-treated group. Blood pressure was measured before (at 60 min and 30 min, and just prior to administration) and at 60, 90, and 120 min after drug administration. Both cilazapril and nitrendipine significantly (p < 0.01) reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure. The decrease in systolic blood pressure measured at trough was significantly greater with cilazapril than with nitrendipine (-17 vs. -12 mm Hg, p < 0.05), but the effect of the two drugs on diastolic blood pressure was similar (-11 mm Hg). Tolerability was assessed by means of adverse events, laboratory assessments, psychometric tests, and questionnaires on mood states and sleep. Adverse events were reported by 9% of patients in the cilazapril group and by 21% of patients in the nitrendipine group (p < 0.05). Laboratory test results and profiles for mood, sleep, memory, and attention were not affected by either treatment. Thus, cilazapril and nitrendipine both appear to be effective and well tolerated antihypertensive agents in the elderly patient.
Twenty-four-hour blood pressure control: effect of cilazapril on continuous arterial blood pressure during sleep, and physical and mental load in patients with arterial hypertension and sleep apnea.	To assess the effectiveness of cilazapril in regulating blood pressure (BP) in patients with sleep-related breathing disorders, 23 male patients (mean age, 50 years; mean body mass index, 32.7 kg/m2) with a mean apnea/hypopnea index of 49.7 and arterial hypertension (163/104 mm Hg) participated in a placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blind study. They received either cilazapril, 2.5 mg/day (n = 12) or placebo (n = 11). The effects of treatment were studied under different conditions of sleep and physical and mental load before and after 8 days of treatment. Measurements by night included cardiorespiratory polysomnography, inductive plethysmography, pulse oximetry and nasal air flow, electroencephalography, (EEG), electrooculography and electromyography, (ECG), and blood pressure (BP). Measurements by day (ECG, heart rate, and BP) were performed at rest and under physical and mental load. Systolic, diastolic, and mean BP (5 min at night; 1 s during the day), heart rate, apnea and hypopnea index, EEG data, and test reaction times were compared in both groups. The systolic and diastolic BP of patients receiving cilazapril was lower compared to baseline for all physical and mental loads. Mean BP reductions over all standardized loads was greater with cilazapril than placebo (-10 vs. -4.3 mm Hg, p < 0.05). These results show that BP is influenced similarly by mental and physical loads, and that behavior [i.e., awake state and non-rapid eye movement and rapid eye movement (NREM and REM) sleep determines BP regulation. Cilazapril is effective in reducing BP in all situations, especially during REM sleep hypertension.
Beta 1-adrenergic mechanism is involved in stress-induced increase in arousal.	It has been shown that 1 h restraint shortens pentobarbital (PbNa)-induced sleeping time and that brain corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) is involved in the mechanism by which restraint shortens. PbNa-induced sleeping time. The present study was designed to further examine the mechanism of the antagonistic effect of 1 h restraint on PbNa in rats. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of propranolol and metoprolol, but not butoxamine reversed the shortening of PbNa-induced sleeping time by 1 h restraint. The i.c.v. administration of phentolamine blocked the shortening of PbNa-induced sleeping time by restraint, while the same dose of phentolamine prolonged the sleeping time in unrestrained rats. Atropine did not affect the PbNa-induced sleeping time in restrained rats. These results suggest that in addition to CRH, the brain beta 1-adrenergic system is involved in the restraint stress-induced increase in arousal.
Promotion of sleep by prostaglandin D2 in rats made insomniac by pretreatment with para-chlorophenylalanine.	The correlation between the somnogenic effect of prostaglandin (PG) D2 and the serotoninergic system was examined in freely-moving rats (n = 64) by use of a continuous infusion method. Rats pretreated with para-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA: 450 mg/kg body weight, i.p.) or non-PCPA-pretreated rats received infusion of PGD2, serotonin, or its direct precursor, 5-hydroxytryptophan (5HTP), into their third cerebral ventricle at a rate of 100 pmol/0.2 microliter/min between 11:00 and 17:00 h. In the PCPA-pretreated insomniac rats, PGD2 infusion resulted in an immediate increase in slow-wave sleep (SWS) and an increase with a 2-h latency in paradoxical sleep (PS). The total amounts of SWS and PS during the PGD2-infusion period were 151% and 154% of the respective control values. These results indicate that inhibition of the biosynthesis of serotonin and 5HTP by PCPA marginally affects the sleep-promoting effect of PGD2. The transient sleep restoration produced by 5HTP infusion into PCPA-pretreated rats was hardly affected by the simultaneous infusion (200 pmol/0.2 microliter/min; 07:00-17:00 h) of diclofenac sodium, an inhibitor of cyclo-oxygenase, suggesting that PGD2 production is not critically involved in the sleep restoration by 5HTP. The sleep-promoting property of PGD2 is thus probably independent of the serotoninergic modulation of sleep-wake activity.
A multivariate analysis of repeated measures: linkage of the albinism gene (Tyr) to a QTL influencing ethanol-induced anesthesia in laboratory mice.	We propose the use of multivariate analysis of variance in order to address linkage relationships between a genetic marker and a phenotype that is specified by multiple variables. Moreover, enhanced power of a linkage model that simultaneously accounts for environmental factors is demonstrated in the present study. This strategy was used to establish linkage of a quantitative trait locus influencing ethanol-induced anesthesia to the albinism gene (Tyr) in mouse. This approach, which can be implemented immediately with most statistical packages, provides the extreme flexibility of multivariate analysis of variance for analyzing complex questions of linkage regarding either animal or human research paradigms.
Diurnal differences in L-tryptophan sleep and temperature effects in the rat.	Sleep/waking and EEG power spectra were investigated for 6 h periods in rats following administration of the essential amino acid L-tryptophan (40 mg/kg), the selective serotonin uptake inhibitor zimeldine (20 mg/kg), and following a combination of L-tryptophan and zimeldine. In contrast to earlier studies, L-tryptophan decreased waking and increased total slow wave sleep when administered late in the light phase (8 1/2 h after light onset). No sleep effects were seen after early light phase injections (2 h after lights on). In agreement with earlier studies, zimeldine initially increased wakefulness, followed by an increase in slow wave sleep-2. REM sleep was abolished after zimeldine treatment. Zimeldine increased EEG delta activity and decreased EEG activity above 7 Hz. L-Tryptophan potentiated the zimeldine induced increase in waking only when given early in the light phase. In a separate experiment, body temperature was monitored after L-tryptophan injections in both early and late light phase. A thermogenic effect of L-tryptophan was seen in the early light phase, while the opposite was seen in the late light phase. The data indicate diurnal differences in sleep/waking and temperature effects of a physiological dose of L-tryptophan.
Changes in sleep polygraphic variables and clinical state in depressed patients during treatment with citalopram.	Drug-induced improvement of depression may be mediated by changes in sleep physiology. The aim of this study was to relate changes in sleep polygraphic variables to clinical state during treatment with citalopram, a highly specific serotonin uptake inhibitor. Sixteen patients took part. The study was single-blind and uncontrolled. A 1-week wash-out period was followed by 1 week of placebo administration, a medication period of 5 weeks, and a 1-week placebo period. For the entire group a significant decrease of rapid eye movement sleep (REMS) and a significant lengthening of REMS latency were observed initially as well as at the end of treatment. No changes in sleep continuity were found, but non-REMS stage 2 (percentage) was significantly increased. On the basis of clinical change, as expressed by the scores of the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression, at the end of the citalopram treatment the patient group was split in two halves: eight less and eight more improved patients. The groups did not differ with respect to any sleep polygraphic variable.
Neuropharmacology of a new potential anxiolytic compound, F 2692, 1-(3'-trifluoromethyl phenyl) 1,4-dihydro 3-amino 4-oxo 6-methyl pyridazine. 1. Acute and in vitro effects.	F 2692 [1-(3'-trifluoromethyl phenyl) 1,4-dihydro 3-amino 4-oxo 6-methyl pyridazine] exhibited dose-dependent "anxiolytic" properties in the elevated plus-maze and the punished drinking tests in rats. It was also active in the two-compartment test in mice. The "anxiolytic" effects were antagonised by the benzodiazepine antagonists, flumazenil and ZK 93426. The compound exhibited anticonvulsant, sedative, myorelaxant and amnesic effects at doses 3-30 times higher than those required for "anxiolytic" activity. F 2692 has a very low affinity for benzodiazepine binding sites in vitro and in vivo (about 1000 and 160 fold lower than diazepam respectively). In addition it displayed no affinity for GABAA, alpha 2-adrenergic, 5-HT1A or 5-HT2 receptors. These data suggest that F 2692 may be a potential anxiolytic compound with an unusual mechanism of action.
Testing the effects of hypnotics on memory via the telephone: fact or fiction?	The two benzodiazapines used in this experiment, namely midazolam and flunitrazepam, have both been shown to have effects on memory processing in laboratory studies. In spite of the potential hazards involved in real life testing, it should be possible to replicate such findings in everyday environments and it is argued that a successful replication would be a very meaningful extension to the existing laboratory data. The present study was successful in producing significant "hangover" effects in healthy volunteers using a novel "user-friendly" telephone testing technique. Compared to placebo, the two hypnotics reduced speed of processing in tasks which required retrieval from long-term semantic memory (semantic verification) and the manipulation of material in working memory (syntactic reasoning). We suggest that this new method offers the potential for carrying out large-scale psychopharmacological studies with real patients and achieves a meaningful step forward in the search for ecological validity.
Pharmacological characterization of benzodiazepine receptor ligands with intrinsic efficacies ranging from high to zero.	Several benzodiazepine receptor ligands were pharmacologically characterized in a battery of functional tests after oral administration in mice, rats, and monkeys. Previous experiments have consistently demonstrated that diazepam exhibits high intrinsic efficacy, bretazenil exhibits intermediate intrinsic efficacy, Ro 42-8773 and Ro 41-7812 both show low intrinsic efficacy, and flumazenil exhibits virtually zero intrinsic efficacy. In the test battery used here it appears that nearly full intrinsic efficacy is required for clear anterograde amnesia or rotarod impairment. In contrast, full protection in the pentetetrazol test was achieved with intermediate-to-high intrinsic efficacy and nearly full protection with lower intrinsic efficacy. In the audiogenic seizure test full anticonvulsant effects were produced with intrinsic efficacy ranging from low to high. Clear inhibition of punished operant responding was observed for all test compounds except for Ro 41-7812 and flumazenil, which exhibit the lowest intrinsic efficacies. All of the test compounds enhanced palatable food consumption, with even those having low intrinsic efficacy producing maximum effects approximating that of diazepam. By additionally taking into consideration the degree of receptor occupancy required to obtain pharmacological activity in each of the tests in this battery it is possible to order the compounds with respect to intrinsic efficacy: diazepam > bretazenil > Ro 42-8773 > Ro 41-7812 > flumazenil. The latter four compounds all exhibited a maximum antagonistic activity in tests involving reversal of meclonazepam- or flunitrazepam-induced central nervous system depression. Thus, using these tests appears to permit the accurate ordinal classification of benzodiazepine receptor ligands for intrinsic efficacy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Subjective and behavioral effects of diazepam depend on its rate of onset.	This study addressed the assumption that rate of onset affects the euphorigenic effects of drugs. Drugs with rapid onset are commonly thought to be more euphorigenic than drugs with slower onset, but this idea has rarely been studied directly. Nine healthy male social drinkers, with no history of drug- or alcohol-related problems, participated in three sessions. On each session they received oral doses of placebo (PLAC), diazepam in a rapid onset condition (FAST), or diazepam in a slow onset condition (SLOW). In the FAST condition, they received a single 20 mg dose, whereas in the SLOW condition they received six 4 mg doses administered at 30-min intervals. Plasma levels of diazepam and desmethyldiazepam, subjective effects (including measures of euphoria), psychomotor performance and vital signs were monitored throughout each session. Although the FAST and SLOW conditions led to similar peak plasma levels of drug, the peak was attained earlier in the FAST condition (61 min versus 220 min). Subjects' scores on a measure of euphoria (MBG scale of the ARCI) were significantly higher in the FAST condition compared to the SLOW and PLAC conditions. Subjects exhibited significantly more behavioral signs of intoxication and greater psychomotor impairment in the FAST condition. Sedative effects of the drug were similar in magnitude, but the effects lasted slightly longer in the FAST condition. On several measures diazepam produced similar effects in the two conditions (e.g., ratings of strength of drug effect). These data provide limited support for the notion that a faster rate of onset of drug effects is associated with greater euphoria.
Caffeine reversal of sleep deprivation effects on alertness and mood.	This study assessed the ability of high doses of caffeine to reverse changes in alertness and mood produced by prolonged sleep deprivation. Fifty healthy, nonsmoking males between the ages of 18 and 32 served as volunteers. Following 49 h without sleep, caffeine (0, 150, 300, or 600 mg/70 kg, PO) was administered in a double-blind fashion. Measures of alertness were obtained with sleep onset tests, the Stanford Sleepiness Scale (SSS), and Visual Analog Scales (VAS). Sleep deprivation decreased onset to sleep from a rested average of 19.9 min to 7 min. Following the highest dose of caffeine tested, sleep onset averaged just over 10 min; sleep onset for the placebo group averaged 5 min. Scores on the SSS increased from a rested mean of 1.6-4.8 after sleep deprivation. Caffeine reduced this score to near rested values. Caffeine reversed sleep deprivation-induced changes in three subscales of the POMS (vigor, fatigue, and confusion) and produced values close to fully rested conditions on several VAS. Serum caffeine concentrations peaked 90 min after ingestion and remained elevated for 12 h. This study showed that caffeine was able to produce significant alerting and long-lasting beneficial mood effects in individuals deprived of sleep for 48 h.
Hydrolysis of temazepam in simulated gastric fluid and its pharmacological consequence.	Temazepam (TMZ), a hypnotic and anxiolytic drug, underwent hydrolysis in simulated gastric fluid (SGF; pH 1.2). The hydrolysis reaction of TMZ in acetonitrile:SGF (1:19 v/v) at 37 degrees C was an apparent first-order reaction, with a half-life of 5.47 +/- 0.17 h (i.e., approximately 12% of the remaining TMZ was hydrolyzed per hour). The predominant hydrolysis product (2'-benzoyl-4'-chloro-N-methyl-2-amino-2-hydroxyacetanilide) and a minor hydrolysis product [2-(methylamino)-5-chlorobenzophenone], derived from acid-catalyzed reaction of TMZ in an aqueous solution, were characterized by ultraviolet-visible absorption mass, infrared, and proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectra analyses. The kinetics of the hydrolysis reaction were studied as a function of acid concentration, temperature, and ionic strength and in deuterated solvent. Results indicated that the predominant hydrolysis reaction at pH approximately pKa (1.46) was caused by protonation at N4, followed by a nucleophilic attack by water at C5 of the C5-N4 iminium ion and a subsequent ring-opening reaction. Pharmacological activity tests in mice indicated that the predominant hydrolysis product of TMZ was inactive. The results suggest that a fraction of an orally taken TMZ may be inactivated by hydrolysis in the highly acidic gastric fluid.
Effect of a single dose (10 mg) of zolpidem on visual and spectral analysis of sleep in young poor sleepers.	Four non-consecutive nights of sleep were recorded in eight young volunteers complaining of chronic poor sleep. The subjects received a placebo or a 10 mg zolpidem dose prior to bedtime according to a Latin square double-blind design. All-night spectral analyses of the Cz-Pz lead were associated to the standard polysomnography. According to the visual scoring performed with the Rechtschaffen and Kales criteria, zolpidem significantly increased the stage 4 amount and reduced waking. Compared to placebo no difference in sleep stages was observed when the scoring was based on the power in the 0.7 to 4-Hz band. In zolpidem nights power was significantly reduced in the 4 to 8-Hz band during NREM (stages 2, 3 and 4) and was increased in the 2 to 4-Hz band during REM sleep. A significant reduction of fast activities over 12 Hz was observed during the first 3 h of sleep. Concerning slow wave activity, the only change noted was a significant slowing of its build-up rate at the beginning of cycle 1.
The selective histamine H1-receptor agonist 2-(3-trifluoromethylphenyl)histamine increases waking in the rat.	The effects of the selective histamine H1-receptor agonist, 2-(3-trifluoromethylphenyl)histamine, were studied in rats implanted with electrodes for chronic sleep recordings. 2-(3-Trifluoromethylphenyl)histamine (80-120 micrograms) injected into the left lateral ventricle increased wakefulness, whereas slow wave sleep was reduced. Pretreatment with pyrilamine (2.0 mg/kg) prevented the effects of the H1-receptor agonist on wakefulness and slow wave sleep. Our results further support the involvement of histamine in the modulation of the waking state.
TSH response to TRH and EEG sleep in non-bipolar major depression: a multivariate approach.	The TSH response to TRH and selected sleep EEG variables were studied in a homogeneous sample of 280 non-bipolar major depressed inpatients (95 males and 185 females). The TSH response to TRH was blunted in 28% of the sample. delta max TSH was correlated negatively with age, Hamilton rating scale, Newcastle scale, percentage of wake, and positively with basal TSH, percentage of stage II, slow wave sleep, REM sleep and REM latency. delta max TSH was also lower in male patients and in patients suffering from an endogenous or a psychotic subtype of major depression. Basal TSH was only correlated negatively with the Newcastle score. In view of intercorrelations between all these variables, and because of the confounding effect of age, gender and severity on both the TSH response to TRH and sleep EEG variables, a multiple regression analysis was performed and demonstrated that basal TSH and gender were the two variables with the highest contribution to the delta max TSH variance, followed by age and the presence of psychotic symptoms. When controlling strictly for these significant effects, correlation with the severity or with the endogenous character of depression, and with sleep EEG parameters disappeared.
Zolpidem: clinical experience in psychiatric settings.	Zolpidem, a new short-acting non benzodiazepine hypnotic with high selectivity for benzodiazepine--1/Omega-I receptors and with lack of tolerance and physical dependence in animal models and lack of withdrawal phenomena even after up to 180 days treatment has recently been introduced. Data from clinical trials show a comparable effectiveness in inducing and maintaining sleep to comparative drugs (benzodiazepines) and besides that, it seems to preserve--even improve sleep-architecture and lastly preserve daytime wakefulness. Very few studies have been conducted in psychiatric patients, but also in this group effectiveness has been shown, and from daily clinical experience, this picture seems to hold. It must be remembered, that psychiatric patients have a high level of symptomatic benzodiazepine and/or alcohol misuse disposing to withdrawal and abstinence states in which zolpidem is less effective presumedly reflecting its selectivity. Having passed the withdrawal states, zolpidem can be used as an effective and safe hypnotic.
Effect of hypnotic drugs on sleep architecture.	It is widely accepted that the conventional polysomnographic parameters (macrostructure of sleep) supply only rough information for clinical purposes. In particular, they often appear inadequate to support a diagnosis of insomnia or the effectiveness of a hypnotic compound. In the past years, attention has been focused on the microstructure of sleep, and especially on the periodic distribution of arousal-related phasic events known as Cyclic Alternating Pattern (CAP). This microstructural rhythm is not only a physiological component of normal NREM sleep, but it also appears highly sensitive in the detection of disturbing factors and drug manipulation. Regardless of the specific context, CAP always translates a condition of arousal instability during sleep. Accordingly, the higher the amount of CAP, the poorer the subjective quality of sleep. In young adults, the physiological amount of CAP Rate (percentage ratio of CAP time to NREM sleep time) ranges around 25%, while CAP Rate rises to 55% when sleep is perturbed by continuous white noise (situational insomnia). The analysis of CAP Rate within this framework of situational insomnia is recommended for evaluating the effects of hypnotic drugs under controlled experimental conditions. Therapeutical doses of zolpidem preserve the regular course of sleep both at the macro- and at the microstructural level, when sleep is recorded under basal conditions. In contrast, during acoustic perturbation, zolpidem reduces the pathological amounts of arousal instability by lowering the values of CAP Rate to 38%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Evaluation of some pharmacological activities of Eugenia uniflora L.	In view of the extensive use of Eugenia uniflora in folk medicine, different extracts of dried and fresh leaves of the plant were assayed to test its possible pharmacological activities. The infusion of fresh leaves had a highly significant anti-inflammatory effect when administered p.o. to rats 1 h before subplantar injection of carrageenin. The infusion increased the pentobarbital sleeping time and also had an effect on intestinal transit, and had no acute toxic effect. No analgesic or antimicrobial activities were observed with any of the extracts used.
A postmarketing surveillance study of zopiclone in insomnia.	Zopiclone, a novel cyclopyrrolone compound has recently become available for the treatment of insomnia in Singapore. Pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic studies have shown it to be an effective hypnotic with a good safety profile and minimal side-effects. The efficacy of Zopiclone was studied in a group of patients with insomnia (n = 40). The study group comprised patients with and without a psychiatric diagnosis. About two-thirds (65%) of the patients had been on hypnotics previously without relief of the insomnia. There was improvement in the various sleep parameters studied: sleep latency, sleep duration, night awakening, sleep quality, dreams, "day-after" effects. The drug was well-tolerated and only four patients experienced minor side-effects.
Sleep-wake disturbances in an animal model of chronic cholinergic insufficiency.	Rats reared on a diet in which choline is replaced with N-aminodeanol (NADE), undergo > 50% replacement of brain acetylcholine with acetylated NADE, a false cholinergic transmitter. We examined amounts of sleep and wakefulness in 7 littermate pairs of rats fed either NADE-substituted, or a choline control diet for > 100 days after weaning. During the lights-on portion of the 12/12 h light/dark cycle, NADE rats spent more time awake, and less time in both non-REM and REM sleep compared to littermate controls. Average durations of waking episodes were significantly increased in NADE rats. During the 12 h dark period, there were no between-group differences in sleep-waking amounts. Behavioral hyper-responsiveness which interferes with sleep onset, combined with reduced activity in brainstem cholinergic mechanisms involved in REM sleep generation may underlie daytime sleep-waking disturbances in NADE rats.
Synthesis and analgetic activity of nicotinic esters of morphine derivatives.	The synthesis of morphine nicotinates is described using nicotinyl chloride in the presence of pyridine. Isomorphine and isocodeine nicotinates were prepared from the corresponding morphine and codeine derivatives with nicotinic acid in the presence of triphenylphosphine and diethyl azodicarboxylate. Unexpectedly the reaction of 14-hydroxy-dihydromorphinone derivatives was anomalous, enolesters were formed. The analgetic activity of selected compounds was determined.
Effects of 1,5 benzodiazepine beta lactam on sleep]	Various substances have been used as sleep inductors, but their use has declined, due to their undesirable side effects, and they have been replaced mainly by benzodiazepines. There currently exists a great variety of benzodiazepines with an increasing, clinical use, although they also present certain disadvantages. The effect on sleep of the intraperitoneal administration (0.9 mg/kg) of 7-(p-cl-phenyl)-8-phenoxy-4,5-benzo-3-aza-2-none, was analysed in chronically implanted wistar rats. Results indicate that this substance decreases wakefulness and increases significantly slow-wave and paradoxical sleep. Latency of the first phase of paradoxical sleep show a tendency to increase. It is concluded that this substance has hypnogenic effects.
Effects of seeds, leaves and fruits of Ziziphus spinosa and jujuboside A on central nervous system function]	The seeds and leaves of Ziziphus Spinosa exert a similar inhibiting effect on central nervous system function, while the fruits have a synergism with pentobarbitol sodium and thiopental sodium on prolongation of sleep and sedation, also decreases coordinated action. Jujuboside A exerts no inhibiting effect, but a synergism with phenylalanine on central nervous system function.
Anti-interleukin-1 beta reduces sleep and sleep rebound after sleep deprivation in rats.	Interleukin-1 (IL-1) is somnogenic and is hypothesized to be involved in physiological sleep regulation. Antibodies directed against rat IL-1 beta were used to further elucidate possible contributions of IL-1 to sleep regulation. Rabbit anti-rat IL-1 beta (anti-IL-1 beta) was injected intracerebroventricularly into normal rats 15 min before light onset. A 20-microgram dose of anti-IL-1 beta reduced non-rapid-eye-movement (NREM) sleep by 60 min during the subsequent 12-h slight period. There was no effect on rapid eye movement sleep after this dose of anti-IL-1 beta. The effects of anti-IL-1 beta on the enhancement of sleep after periods of sleep deprivation were also determined. When rats were deprived of sleep for 3-h beginning at light onset, the amount of time spent in NREM sleep increased for the remaining 9 h of the light period, regardless of whether control intracerebroventricular injections of pyrogen-free saline or rabbit immunoglobulin G were given during the deprivation period. However, when 20 micrograms anti-IL-1 beta were injected intracerebroventricularly during the sleep deprivation period, the expected NREM sleep rebound was completely blocked. Collectively, these data provide additional support for the hypothesis that IL-1 is involved in regulation of physiological sleep-wake activity.
Naloxone antagonizes ethanol- but not gamma-hydroxybutyrate-induced sleep in mice.	The present study examined the effect of naloxone on ethanol- and gamma-hydroxybutyric acid-induced narcosis in mice and the changes induced by these drugs on striatal dopamine metabolism. The results show that naloxone (1-10 mg/kg s.c.) markedly reduced ethanol-induced narcosis but failed to modify the duration of sleep induced by gamma-hydroxybutyrate. Naloxone (10 mg/kg) modified neither ethanol- nor gamma-hydroxybutyrate-induced changes in striatal dopamine and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) content. The results suggest that gamma-hydroxybutyrate- and ethanol-induced narcosis are mediated by different mechanisms and that opioid receptors are not involved in the changes in dopamine metabolism induced by these compounds.
Insomnia in generalized anxiety disorder: polysomnographic, psychometric and clinical investigations before, during and after therapy with a long- versus a short-half-life benzodiazepine (quazepam versus triazolam).	Within a double-blind, comparative study on the effects of the long-half-life benzodiazepine (BDZ), quazepam, and the short-half-life BDZ, triazolam, on clinical symptomatology, sleep and anxiety of 45 patients with insomnia based on a mild to moderate generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) (ICD-9 code: 307.42-1, 300,0; ASDC-APSS-Code: A.2.a), we compared, in a first step at baseline, drug-free polysomnographic and psychometric data of 22 patients recorded in the laboratory (L-group) and 21 patients recorded by the Oxford Medilog 9000 system at home (H-group) with those of normal controls. Sleep efficiency, total sleep time, wake within total sleep period (middle insomnia) and wake before buzzer (late insomnia) were significantly deteriorated in both patient groups as compared with controls, while sleep induction time only differed significantly in home recordings. Regarding sleep architecture, stage (S)2 was reduced, S3 and S4 increased in the H-group only, while no intergroup differences were seen in S1, SREM and REM latency. Subjective sleep quality was reduced in both patient groups, but not awakening quality. Psychometric tests in the morning demonstrated for the noopsyche, only a significantly deteriorated psychomotor activity in both patient groups. In the thymopsyche, evening well-being and mood in the morning were reduced in both the L- and H-group, affectivity and morning well-being only in the H-group. The psychopharmacological part of the study was completed by 40 patients (there were 4 drop-outs in the triazolam, 1 in the quazepam group). They were treated after 1 week placebo with either 15-30 mg (median 15 mg) quazepam or 0.25-0.5 mg (median 0.25 mg) triazolam for 4 weeks, and thereafter for 2 weeks with placebo. Anxiety (rated by HAMA and SAS) improved significantly with both drugs and remained improved throughout 2 weeks post-drug placebo, with quazepam being slightly superior to triazolam. Polysomnography demonstrated a shortened sleep onset only after quazepam. Sleep efficiency improved after acute administration of both drugs, but the improvement was maintained by quazepam only (tolerance development with triazolam). Rebound insomnia was observed only in the 1st post-triazolam placebo night (significant intergroup difference based on confirmatory testing). S2 increased, S3 + S4 decreased under and after quazepam, which represents a normalization in home-recorded GAD patients. S1 decreased with both drugs, SREM only under quazepam. Subjective sleep quality behaved very similarly to objective sleep efficiency. Awakening quality improved after acute therapy with both drugs, somatic complaints only with quazepam.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Somnogenic activity of muramyl peptide-derived immune adjuvants.	Muramyl peptides (MPs) possess immunostimulatory, pyrogenic and somnogenic activities. The structural requirements of MPs for each of these activities are different though certain MPs, e.g. muramyl dipeptide (NAM-L-ala-D-isogln) possess all three activities. Several MPs are proposed for use as immune adjuvants; somnogenic and pyrogenic activities would be considered adverse side effects of such compounds. We report here that some of the putative adjuvants, GIF101, WG209 and MDP-threonine lack somnogenic and pyrogenic activities. Current results also expand our understanding of the structural requirements for these activities. Major findings are that the addition of the dipeptide L-ala-D-isogln to NAG-NAM-L-ala-D-isogln blocks the activity of the latter compound and that the amino sugar moiety of MPs, NAM, is unnecessary for somnogenic and pyrogenic activity.
Comparison of effects on sleep of lovastatin and pravastatin in hypercholesterolemia.	The effects on sleep of lovastatin, a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor administered as a lipophilic lactone prodrug, and pravastatin, an inhibitor administered in its active, hydrophilic, open-acid form, were compared by polysomnographic sleep monitoring. Twenty-four men with primary hypercholesterolemia (low-density lipoprotein 4 to 7 mmol/liter) each received 2 of the following 3 treatments in a randomized, incomplete block, crossover design study: lovastatin (40 mg/day), pravastatin (40 mg/day), and placebo. Test drug was administered once daily for 4 weeks during each half of the crossover study. Subjective sleep assessments were obtained throughout each treatment period, and polysomnographic recordings were obtained at the end of the 4-week treatment periods. Treatment periods were separated by a 1-week washout. Lovastatin did not differ from placebo regarding any polysomnographic parameter except "number of entries to wake," for which it produced fewer entries (i.e., change was in the direction of improvement). Pravastatin did not differ from placebo regarding any polysomnographic measures, but was associated with worsening in relation to lovastatin in the following parameters: sleep efficiency, entries to wake, percent rapid eye movement sleep, wake time during sleep, and total wake time. For each of these 4 parameters, although neither drug showed marked differences from placebo, the mean change in the lovastatin group was in the direction of improved sleep, whereas the change in the pravastatin group was in the direction of disturbed sleep. Neither lovastatin nor pravastatin had any effect on subjective, qualitative sleep ratings.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effects of propranolol, pindolol and atenolol after multiple administration in rats on the duration of hexobarbital sleeping time and on the activity of some drug-metabolizing enzyme systems.	Three beta-adrenergic blocking agents propranolol (50 mg/kg), pindolol (5mg/kg) and atenolol (150mg/kg) were administered orally in rats for 21 days. The duration of hexobarbital (HB) sleeping time and the activities of some liver monooxygenases and synthetases were studied. The HB sleeping time was not changed. Propranolol and pindolol decreased the ethylmorfin-N-demethylase (EMND) and benzphetamine-N-demethylase (BND) activities. The three beta-adrenergic blocking agents did not change the activities of anilinehydroxylase (AH), ethoxycoumarine-O-demethylase (ECOD), and glutathione-S-transferase (G-S-T), the total content of cytochrome P-450, b5 and microsomal heme. They increased the activities of uridinediphosphoglucuronil transferase (UDPGT) and NADPH-cytochrome C reductase. The participation of different mechanisms of the effects of the three beta-adrenergic blocking agents on the activity of drug-metabolizing enzyme systems was discussed.
Introduction and history of the use of electroencephalography in animal drug studies.	A brief review of the development and the state-of-the-art of EEG methods used to study drug effects is presented. Classification systems based on drug effects in animals kept awake artificially, and based on drug effects on the sleep-wake state duration and distribution are discussed. It is concluded that the techniques are there and the time is ripe to develop animal EEG-based drug classification systems with high predictive ability.
Computer-based prediction of psychotropic drug classes based on a discriminant analysis of drug effects on rat sleep.	The goal of the present study was to classify psychotropic drugs on the basis of EEG-defined rat sleep-waking behaviour. Using an automated sleep classification system it was found that some of the drug-induced changes in sleep-waking behaviour were specific for the pharmacotherapeutic treatment class to which the drug belonged. In several preliminary experiments we further found that drugs may have effects on rat EEG independent of their effects on rat sleep-waking behaviour and that these pharmaco-EEG effects may be different for the various sleep and waking stages. By analysing sleep class-independent EEG-spectral parameters a single drug effect score can, moreover, be obtained giving information on drug pharmacodynamics. The drug-induced changes in sleep-waking behaviour were used to classify a large number of drugs into several therapy classes by means of a discriminant analysis procedure. Antidepressants, antipsychotics and stimulants were discriminated successfully from each other and from placebo by this system, whereas nootropics classified as placebo. Anxiolytics, hypnotics and anticonvulsants classified poorly. Their classification is hampered by the lack of specific compounds. Assigned drug class and assignment probability were dose dependent. In the discussion of the present study it is suggested that animal pharmaco-sleep and pharmaco-EEG studies are not mutually exclusive approaches, but that they may complement each other.
Influence of the cholinergic agonist SDZ 210-086 on sleep in healthy subjects.	The administration of 1.0 mg SDZ 210-086, an orally acting muscarinic agonist, shortened rapid-eye movement (REM) latency, increased REM percent of sleep period time and the total duration of REM sleep, and decreased slow-wave sleep in 12 healthy male subjects. The administration of 0.5 mg SDZ 210-086 had no statistically significant effect on sleep variables. Although the tonic components of REM sleep (REM duration, the REM percent of sleep period time) were increased, REM density percent (total) was significantly decreased due to the prolongation of total REM duration (in minutes) and a parallel reduction of the total number of eye movements. This finding is in contrast to studies using other cholinomimetics (i.e., physostigmine, arecoline, and RS 86) and may implicate different generating systems of phasic and tonic REM sleep components.
Effects of ethanol, diphenhydramine, and triazolam after a nap.	This study assessed the capacity of a 60-minute nap to reverse the sedating and performance-disruptive effects of ethanol, triazolam, and Diphenhydramine. Twelve healthy, young men received (at 0800 to 0830) .6 g/kg ethanol and a placebo pill, .25 mg triazolam and ethanol placebo, 50 mg Diphenhydramine and ethanol placebo, and a placebo pill and ethanol placebo on each of 2 days in a Latin Square design. On one treatment day (at 0900 hour) subjects were allowed a 60-minute nap and on the other a sleep latency test (no nap). Then, sleep latency was tested (by Multiple Sleep Latency Test [MSLT] at 1100, 1300, 1500, and 1700) and divided attention performance assessed (at 1130). The nap reversed the sedative effects of ethanol and Diphenhydramine and reduced those of triazolam (on MSLT). The nap reduced the performance-disruptive effects of ethanol and Diphenhydramine but not those of triazolam. Given the differing neurobiological mechanisms of these drugs, the data suggest that some of their effects are nonspecific and result from activation of sleep mechanisms that a nap can reverse.
Patient-controlled analgesia with low dose background infusions after lower abdominal surgery in children.	Forty-five children (aged 6-12 yr) undergoing appendicectomy received one of three analgesic regimens using patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) with morphine: no background infusion (BO); background infusion 4 micrograms kg-1 h-1 (B4); background infusion 10 micrograms kg-1 h-1 (B10). Total consumption of morphine was greater in group B10 compared with groups B0 (P < 0.01) and B4 (P < 0.05). There was no significant difference in morphine consumption in groups B0 and B4. All three groups self-administered similar amounts of morphine and there were no significant differences in pain scores or incidence of excessive sedation. Group B4 suffered less hypoxaemia compared with groups B0 (P < 0.01) and B10 (P < 0.001). Group B10 suffered more nausea and vomiting than groups B0 (P < 0.001) and B4 (P < 0.001), but there was no significant difference in the incidence of nausea and vomiting between groups B0 and B4. Groups B4 and B10 spent more time at night asleep than group B0 (P < 0.05). There were no significant differences between the groups in the amount of time spent asleep during the day. Inclusion of a background infusion of morphine 4 micrograms kg-1 h-1 in a PCA regimen for children did not increase the incidence of side effects and was associated with less hypoxaemia and a better sleep pattern than no background infusion.
In vitro metabolic formation of a new metabolite, 6 beta-hydroxymethyl-delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol from cannabidiol through an epoxide intermediate and its pharmacological effects on mice.	The oxidative metabolism of cannabidiol (CBD) at the 8,9-double bond was examined. 8R,9-Epoxy-CBD was identified by GC-MS as a new metabolite of CBD produced by hepatic microsomal fractions of guinea pigs, rats and mice. The reaction required NADPH as a cofactor and molecular oxygen. The optimal pH for the reaction was 7.4-8.0. The 8R,9-epoxy-CBD forming activity was highest in guinea pigs, followed by mice and rats in the presence of 3,3,3-trichloropropene-1,2-oxide (TCPO), an inhibitor of epoxide hydrolase. The activity was significantly suppressed by SKF 525-A, alpha-naphthoflavone, metyrapone and carbon monoxide. 8R,9-Epoxy-CBD was further converted to 6 beta-hydroxymethyl-delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (6 beta-CH2OH-delta 9-TCH) and 8,9-dihydro-8,9-dihydroxy-CBD by hepatic microsomes of guinea pigs, rats and mice. Microsomal formation of 6 beta-CH2OH-delta 9-THC was markedly increased in the presence of TCPO with a concomitant decrease in the formation of 8,9-dihydro-8,9-dihydroxy-CBD in all animal species examined. Furthermore, 6 beta-CH2OH-delta 9-THC was also identified as a new metabolite of CBD produced by hepatic microsomes of guinea pigs. 6 beta-CH2OH-delta 9-THC exhibited THC-like pharmacological effects, catalepsy, analgesia, pentobarbital-induced sleep prolongation and hypothermia in mice, although these effects were less marked than those of delta 9-THC. This study presents the first example of the biotransformation of CBD to a delta 9-THC derivative which exhibits some pharmacological effects.
The effects of selective activation of the 5-HT3 receptor with m-chlorophenylbiguanide on sleep and wakefulness in the rat.	The effects of the 5-HT3 receptor agonist, m-chlorophenylbiguanide, were compared with those of the 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, MDL 72222, in rats implanted with electrodes for chronic sleep recordings. m-Chlorophenylbiguanide (12.5-50.0 micrograms) injected into the left lateral ventricle increased wakefulness and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep latency, whereas slow wave sleep, REM sleep and the number of REM periods were reduced. MDL 72222 (0.1-1.0 mg/kg, s.c.) induced a delayed and dose-dependent increase of slow wave sleep. Pretreatment with MDL 72222 (0.1-0.5 mg/kg) prevented the effects of m-chlorophenylbiguanide (50 micrograms) on wakefulness and sleep. It is suggested that the increase of wakefulness after 5-HT3 receptor activation could be related to the release of endogenous serotonin and dopamine.
Bambuterol: effective in nocturnal asthma.	Bambuterol was compared with placebo in 28 patients with nocturnal asthma in a randomized, double-blind cross-over study. All patients were symptomatic despite taking inhaled beta 2-agonists, inhaled corticosteroids (in 26 patients the median daily dose was 1500 micrograms) and oral corticosteroids (in eight patients the median daily dose was 10 mg). Patients demonstrated > or = 20% overnight fall in peak expiratory flow (PEF) for at least half of the 14-day run-in period. They then entered two treatment periods lasting 14 days when bambuterol 20 mg nocte and placebo were given in random order. Compared to placebo, bambuterol produced a 16% improvement in mean PEF on waking (271 l min-1 vs. 239 l min-1 P = 0.0002) and a 10% improvement in evening PEF measured 24 h after drug intake (318 l min-1 vs. 296 l min-1 P = 0.01). Bambuterol significantly reduced frequency of nocturnal awakening from 1.1 to 0.7 per night (P = 0.01) and nocturnal beta 2-agonist use from 2.7 to 2.1 puffs (P = 0.0004). Other nocturnal symptoms: cough, wheeze and dyspnoea were also significantly reduced during bambuterol treatment and patients quality of sleep was improved. The results indicate bambuterol (20 mg nocte) provides effective nocturnal bronchodilation with sustained effect for 24 h and may have a useful therapeutic role in the control of symptomatic nocturnal asthma.
Pharmacologic alteration of the perception of being awake or asleep.	In order to further explore the effects of triazolam on the subjective experience of sleeping, we awakened chronic insomniacs with an electronic tone at five points across the night after having administered placebo and three doses of triazolam (0.125, 0.25 and 0.375 mg). Triazolam reduced the likelihood of subjects reporting that they had been awake by about half. Drug effects were most evident in the period 5 minutes after "lights out", at which time there was a reduction in the certainty of the subjects' response; the investigator's ratings of mental activity on the dream complexity scale rose from a rating of "awake" following placebo to the borderline of sleep following triazolam. After triazolam administration, subjects reported less certainty about their descriptions of mental imagery. These data are consistent with a hypothesis that during sleep, and particularly at the threshold of electroencephalogram (EEG) defined sleep, triazolam induces cognitive changes in which the subjective distinction between waking and sleep becomes less clear. Several approaches are suggested to determine whether these effects are related to retrospective subjective reports of hypnotic efficacy.
The effects of ritanserin on mood and sleep in abstinent alcoholic patients.	A trial was carried out to determine the effect of ritanserin or a placebo on sleep and mood in two groups of abstinent alcoholic patients. Their condition was characterized by both alcohol dependence and dysthymia, associated with a personality disorder. They were included in the study after 30 days of sobriety. Ritanserin was given at a daily dose of 10 mg for 28 days and was preceded (10 days) and followed (2 days) by a placebo. Plasma ritanserin concentration after administration of the 28th dose was higher than after the first dose. Peak levels of ritanserin from the first to the 28th dose increased approximately three-fold. In the ritanserin group there was a reduction of total waking time. Total sleep time increase was associated with significantly larger amounts of nonrapid eye movement sleep. Slow wave sleep and rapid eye movement sleep (in minutes or as a percent of total sleep time) were not significantly modified. Patients on ritanserin achieved a progressive improvement of their dysthymia. As compared to the placebo group, a statistically significant decrease of the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression and Hamilton Rating Scale for Anxiety was found in the ritanserin group after 1 week of treatment. The absence of an effect in the placebo-treated group suggests that the clinical response and sleep improvement were mainly related to ritanserin administration.
Comparison of the effect of zopiclone and brotizolam on sleep EEG by quantitative evaluation in healthy young women.	We studied the effect of brotizolam (BRO) (0.25 mg) and zopiclone (ZPC) (7.5 mg) on the sleep electroencephalograms (EEG) of seven healthy young women (ages 20-21 years). In addition to conventional sleep scoring, we performed spectral analysis of EEG wave forms using the Fast Fourier Transformation (FFT) method. Four weeks following two consecutive polysomnographic recordings with placebo administration (for baseline data), polysomnography with BRO or ZPC administration was performed on the subjects who were then crossed over to polysomnography with ZPC or BRO, respectively, 1 week later. Total rapid eye movement (REM) time was decreased on the ZPC and BRO nights and REM latency was prolonged on the ZPC night compared with baseline (BL) night. Other parameters, however, were not significantly different between the drug nights and the BL night. There were also no differences in standard scoring results between both drug nights. FFT analysis revealed significant differences in total power density percentage and mean power density percentage in both nonrapid eye movement (NREM) and REM sleep between ZPC and BRO nights and between both drug nights compared to the BL night. Total power density and mean power density per epoch showed significant decreases in the theta band (6.0-8.0 Hz) and sigma band (12.0-14.0 Hz) on the ZPC night versus the BRO night or BL night during specific NREM periods. The results of this study corroborate previous reports that suggest computer-aided quantitative electroencephalography aids in differentiating specific effects of hypnotics and other central-nervous-system-acting agents on the sleep EEG.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effects of fenfluramine on sleep and prolactin in depressed inpatients: a comparison of potential indices of brain serotonergic responsivity.	The effects of fenfluramine, an indirect serotonergic agonist, on electroencephalographic sleep and prolactin secretion were assessed in 12 unmedicated inpatients with a primary diagnosis of major depressive episode. Compared to prefenfluramine profiles, sleep studies performed following fenfluramine administration showed a statistically significant reduction of slow-wave sleep (SWS) (p < 0.001) and a corresponding increase in percentage of stage-2 sleep (p < 0.007). Automated delta wave counts per min decreased significantly during the first nonrapid eye movement (NREM) period (p = 0.04), and automated rapid-eye movement (REM) counts were also decreased in the second REM period (p = 0.02). These effects on sleep electroencephalogram (EEG) did not correlate significantly with another measure of serotonergic responsivity, namely peak prolactin level following fenfluramine, nor with the severity of depression. The reductions in SWS and REM counts are proposed to be the result of time-dependent changes in serotonergic neurotransmission following the administration of fenfluramine. These findings are consistent with earlier work suggesting a role for serotonin in initiation and regulation of SWS and REM sleep.
Hypothalamic releasing hormones mediating the effects of interleukin-1 on sleep.	There is a substantial literature describing the interactions between the endocrine and immune systems. Although such interactions are less well known within the brain, one major brain function altered during inflammation and infection and by several endocrine hormones is sleep. Pathological disturbances, be they inflammation, infectious disease, and/or sleep deprivation, result in altered hypothalamus-pituitary function and cytokine metabolism. In respect to hormone secretion from the pituitary, cytokines are now recognized to play an important role in modulating the neuroendocrine system. Changes in sleep provide a useful illustration of the interactions between cytokines and the hypothalamus-pituitary axis. Evidence linking interleukin-1 (IL-1) to growth hormone releasing hormone and to corticotropin releasing hormone in regard to their effects on sleep is reviewed.
Development of neurochemical and behavioral sensitivity to ethanol in long-sleep and short-sleep mice.	The postnatal development of certain neurochemical correlates of CNS ethanol sensitivity was examined in the long-sleep (LS) and short-sleep (SS) mice. The differences in sensitivity to the motor-incoordinating and hypothermic effects of ethanol emerged during the second and third weeks of life. Prior studies have shown the sleep time differences between LS and SS mice became significant at 8-10 days of age whereas the present results established that the differences in ethanol-induced hypothermia became prominent at 12-16 days of age. Previous results from our laboratory suggested that the greater CNS ethanol behavioral sensitivity (sleep time and hypothermia) of LS mice is related to the greater ethanol-induced depression of brain monoamine synthesis in the LS line. The timing of the developmental changes in neurochemical ethanol sensitivity in LS and SS mice was found to parallel that found in the development of behavioral ethanol sensitivity as follows. Ethanol-induced decreases in in vivo tyrosine hydroxylase activity in the cerebellum, hypothalamus, and brain stem did not differ between LS and SS mice at postnatal day 8, but became substantially greater in LS mice between postnatal days 8 and 12, coincident with the appearance of the greater sleep times of LS mice. Likewise, ethanol-induced decreases in in vivo tryptophan hydroxylase activity in the dorsal raphe and hypothalamus, which were similar in LS and SS mice at postnatal days 8 and 12, became significantly greater in LS mice by postnatal day 16, the age at which their increased sensitivity to ethanol-induced hypothermia appeared.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Pharmacokinetics of lidocaine and its major metabolite- monoethylglycinexylidide (MEGX) in rabbits with experimental common bile duct obstruction.	The aim of this study was to evaluate, using an experimental model, the effect of obstructive cholestasis on the pharmacokinetics of lidocaine and the formation rate of its major metabolite- monoethylglycinexylidide (MEGX)-in rabbits. The investigation was carried out on 20 rabbits, randomly divided into two groups: a control one sham-operated and an experimental one-animals with biliary duct ligation. The measurements, i.e. laboratory and pharmacodynamic tests, as well as pharmacokinetic assays were performed prior to the operation as well as 10-12 days after the bile duct ligation. At the end stage of the study, livers were examined macro- and microscopically and biochemical analysis of the liver microsomes were performed. Lidocaine was given intravenously, as a bolus of 6 mg/kg. Blood for pharmacokinetic assay was sampled within 6 h following the drug administration, and MEGX concentration was evaluated 15 min after lidocaine had been administered. The immunofluorescence polarization method was employed for determination of lidocaine and MEGX concentrations. The one-compartment open model was used for calculations.
A novel metabolite, an oxepin formed from cannabidiol with guinea-pig hepatic microsomes.	The metabolic formation of an oxepin derivative, 3-pentyl-6,7,7a,8,9,11a-hexahydro-1,7-dihydroxy-7,10- dimethyldibenzo-[b,d]-oxepin, from cannabidiol was studied in-vitro using guinea-pig hepatic microsomes. The hepatic microsomes catalysed the formation of the metabolite from cannabidiol and 8S, 9-epoxycannabidiol in the presence of an NADPH-generating system and 3, 3, 3-trichloropropene-1, 2-oxide. 8S, 9-Epoxycannabidiol was thought to be an intermediate in the formation of the metabolite, which was identified by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. The metabolite synthesized from 8S, 9-epoxycannabidiol diacetate exhibited catalepsy, hypothermia and pentobarbitone-induced sleep prolongation in mice, although the pharmacological effect was less potent than that of delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol.
A comparison of various clomipramine (Anafranil) dosage regimes.	This study was a multicentre general practitioner trial comparing four dosage regimes of clomipramine (Anafranil, Geigy Pharmaceuticals): 10 mg t.d.s., 30 mg o.n., 25 mg t.d.s. and 75 mg o.n. This paper concerns the clinical results obtained using a series of twelve visual analogue scales completed independently by doctor and patient. Also side-effects, recorded on a standard list of unwanted effects of tricyclic antidepressants, were studied. Very few statistical differences were found between the dosage regimes, and they were difficult to interpret clinically. It was concluded that although 25 mg t.d.s. was most effective, 30 mg o.n. was probably the best compromise in terms of efficacy and tolerability.
Effect of zolpidem on sleep and ventilatory patterns at simulated altitude of 4,000 meters.	The purpose of this study was to assess the effect of zolpidem 1 0 mg, a new imidazopyridine hypnotic drug, on sleep and respiratory patterns at a simulated altitude of 4,000 meters. Eight male subjects spent three nights in a decompression chamber. The first study night was spent at the ambient pressure corresponding to sea level. The two other nights were spent at a simulated altitude of 4,000 meters with either zolpidem or a placebo in random order according to a double-blind, crossover design. All subjects showed periodic breathing (PB) during sleep at simulated high altitude. Furthermore, altitude was associated with decreases in total sleep time (TST), slow-wave sleep (SWS), and REM sleep, and with significant increases in Stage 1 duration and in the arousal index. Most arousals were synchronous with the hyperpneic phase of PB. The main finding of our study is that zolpidem improved sleep characteristics at high altitude, inducing a decrease in sleep onset latency (placebo, 22 +/- 12 min versus zolpidem, 10 +/- 6 min), an increase in SWS duration (placebo, 46 +/- 28 min versus zolpidem, 69 +/- 28 min), and a reduction in the arousal index during SWS (placebo, 7.4 +/- 4.1 per h versus zolpidem: 2.4 +/- 1.0 per h). Furthermore, none of the respiratory parameters were significantly affected by zolpidem in any sleep stage. In conclusion, zolpidem improved sleep quality at high altitude without adversely affecting respiration.
Automatic analysis of sleep spindles--assessment in one case treated with a benzodiazepine anxiolytic drug.	Wave-form analysis and detection of sleep spindles should be automatically performed to achieve objective and highly precise determination of the pattern of appearance of sleep spindles. The conditions for constructing the automatic analysis and detection are as follows: 1) it is recommended that EEGs be sampled at 500 Hz or higher intervals; 2) the digital filter with the threshold that is most appropriate for removal of artifacts should be used; 3) various conditions for the analysis and detection of wave-forms are widely used; and 4) a procedure for inspecting and reading record paper should also be included in the set-up. Taking these points into consideration, the authors developed an automatic analysis system for sleep spindles, which employs a computer. The system was applied to a case preliminarily treated with a benzodiazepine anxiolytic drug, ethyl loflazepate (CM6912). The assessment using this system revealed that the CM6912 administration induced an increase in sleep spindles, delayed frequency, and caused amplitude increases and a prolonged duration.
Ethanol and tolerated doses of Amanita phalloides protect against lethal doses of the mushroom.	Single tolerated doses of a lyophilizate from Amanita phalloides (ADL) failed to increase the survival rate of mice after the LD90 of the mushroom. Also, pretreatment with large doses of ethanol did not protect against lethal doses of APL. However, with combined administration of single tolerated doses of APL and of ethanol, the survival rate of mice after a lethal challenge with APL was increased from 13% to up to 100%. Both ethanol and APL potentiated the effect of barbiturate narcosis, but the combined pretreatment was not more effective. The protection against APL afforded by the combined regimen may be due to inhibition of activating hepatic microsomal enzymes, but biochemical studies are needed to support this hypothesis.
Epileptiform syndrome in rats produced by injecting tetanus toxin into the hippocampus.	An epileptiform syndrome in rats produced by injecting small doses (a few (mouse)LD50) of tetanus toxin into the hippocampus is described. The animals had intermittent seizures, with at least a superficial resemblance to human epilepsy, for some weeks but they eventually recovered. They were hyperkinetic for several weeks after the injection of toxin, and showed intermittent aggressive behaviour. Control animals which received similar injections of tetanus toxin first neutralised with antitoxin did not have seizures, and their behaviour appeared normal. EEG recordings showed characteristic seizure activity. Histological examination of the site of injection showed very little morphological damage.
Stable nonaqueous pentobarbital sodium solutions for use in laboratory animals.	The degradation kinetics of pentobarbital sodium in propylene glycol-based solutions were studied along with the in vivo effects in laboratory animals. The degradation rate constant was directly proportional to the water concentration in propylene glycol-water solvent systems. An activation energy of 23.4 kcal/mole was obtained in propylene glycol-water (1:1). Pentobarbital sodium solutions in anhydrous propylene glycol and 9:1 mixtures of propylene glycol with ethanol, glycerin, or dimethylacetamide gave relatively slow degradation rates at 100 degrees with all projected 25 degrees t 99% values greater than 4.5 years. Intravenous administration of pentobarbital sodium in various anhydrous propylene glycol-based vehicles to rats produced no hemolysis of gross organ damage that would interfere with pathological evaluations. Results of an intraperitoneal sleeptime study indicated that pentobarbital sodium produced consistent hypnotic effect when administered as an aqueous solution or in anhydrous propylene glycol-based vehicles.
Ervatamia coronaria: chemical constituents and some pharmacological activities.	A new bisindole alkaloid, 19,20-dihydroervahanine A was isolated from the stems of Ervatamia coronaria grown in Brazil, together with five known alkaloids: coronaridine, heyneanine, voacristine, voacamine, descarbomethoxyvoacamine and five phenolic acids: vanillic, gentisic, syringic, 4-hydroxybenzoic and salicylic acid. The aqueous and alcoholic extracts, when administered p.o. or i.p. to rats 1 h before subplantar injection of carrageenin had a significant anti-inflammatory effect. The alcoholic extract also had an analgesic effect and increased the pentobarbital induced sleeping time.
Adapting to phase shifts, II. Effects of melatonin and conflicting light treatment.	The effects of melatonin (MT) and placebo (P) on adaptation to a rapid 9-h advance phase shift, in the presence and absence of inappropriate bright light (BL) exposure were examined. Volunteers were initially subjected to a gradual 9-h delay phase shift over 5 days (D1-D5) using a combination of bright light and darkness/sleep. Readaptation to a subsequent rapid 9-h advance phase shift was studied using: 1) MT, 5 mg, 2300 h, D6-D8, 2) BL, 2,000 lx, 0800-1200 h, D7-D8, 3) MT+BL and 4) P, 2300 h, D6-D8. MT treatment was timed to phase advance and BL to phase delay. BL delayed the 6-sulphatoxymelatonin rhythm in five out of seven subjects. Two subjects delayed and five phase advanced with both MT and MT+BL. MT consistently improved subjective sleep, alertness, and performance even in the presence of inappropriate BL and before phase readaptation had occurred. BL improved alertness and performance transiently. The beneficial effects of MT are not wholly mediated through an effect on the biological clock.
Metabolic rate and the restorative function of sleep.	It has been shown that performance improves during sleep more rapidly after sleep deprivation than during normal sleep. Recovery after sleep deprivation is also characterized by a different sleep stage distribution and by a decreased metabolic rate compared to a normal night of sleep. The present study examined whether sleep during a period of increased metabolic rate was less restorative than a normal period of sleep. Twelve normal young adults participated for two 4-day periods. In each period, an undisturbed baseline sleep night was followed by baseline testing. On the subsequent night, Ss slept a total of 212 min, starting at 0200 h after consuming placebo or 400 mg of caffeine. After the nap, subjects remained awake for 41 h until beginning an undisturbed night of recover sleep. During the period of sleep loss, subjects remained at the sleep laboratory where they performed computer tests and MSLTs. The caffeine produced a significant increase in metabolic rate during the nap. Although total sleep time was held constant, there was an increase in stage 1 and a decrease in stage 4 sleep after caffeine use. Performance on addition and vigilance tasks was significantly decreased after the caffeine plus nap condition. However, no significant difference were found on the MSLT, and subjective vigor was significantly greater following the caffeine and nap combination. It was concluded that the beneficial effect of sleep in maintaining performance was decreased by increased physiological activation during sleep.
Sleep and EEG power spectrum effects of the 5-HT1A antagonist NAN-190 alone and in combination with citalopram.	The sleep and waking and EEG power spectrum effects of the putative 5-HT1A antagonist NAN-190 (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) were studied alone and in co-administration with the selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor citalopram (5.0 mg/kg, i.p.) in the rat. Citalopram, as in a prior dose-response study, reduced REM sleep. In addition, a slight increase in NREM sleep was observed. Citalopram reduced NREM fronto-parietal (FP) EEG power density in the 5-20 Hz range. When administered alone, NAN-190 suppressed REM sleep in the first 2 h, and reduced SWS-2 in the first 4 after administration. NAN-190 also suppressed selectively NREM sleep slow-wave activity in both fronto-frontal (FF) and FP EEG power spectrum. When administered in combination with citalopram, an attenuation of the power density reduction in the 7-15 Hz range in the FF EEG of citalopram alone, was observed. However, the EEG power spectral density and REM sleep suppressive effects of NAN-190 were both augmented. The results are compatible with the notion that serotonin is involved in the modulation of the slow wave activity in the EEG during NREM sleep. The results are cordant with other data suggesting that postsynaptic 5-HT1A stimulation might increase slow wave activity in the NREM EEG, and that serotonergic stimulation of other receptor subtypes (possibly 5-HT2) may decrease slow wave activity in the NREM EEG.
Effects of majonoside-R2 on pentobarbital sleep and gastric lesion in psychologically stressed mice.	The effects of Vietnamese ginseng (VG) and its major constituent majonoside-R2 on pentobarbital-induced sleep and gastric lesion in psychologically stressed mice were examined. Psychological stress exposure for 30 min significantly decreased the duration of pentobarbital (50 mg/kg, IP)-induced sleep in mice. VG extract (50 mg/kg, PO), VG saponin (25 mg/kg, PO), and majonoside-R2 (3.1-12.5 mg/kg, PO and IP) had no effect on pentobarbital sleep in unstressed control mice, but these drugs significantly recovered pentobarbital sleep decreased by psychological stress to the level of unstressed control animals. On the other hand, Panax ginseng (PG) extract (50-100 mg/kg, PO) failed to affect pentobarbital sleep in psychologically stressed mice. The effect of majonoside-R2 on psychological stress-induced decrease in the hypnotic activity of pentobarbital was significantly blocked by flumazenil (1 mg/kg, IV), a selective benzodiazepine antagonist. Diazepam (0.1 mg/kg, IP) significantly prolonged pentobarbital sleep in unstressed and psychologically stressed groups, and the effect of diazepam was significantly attenuated by the same dose of flumazenil. Naloxone (0.5-5 mg/kg, IP), an opioid antagonist, had no effect on pentobarbital sleep in unstressed or psychologically stressed animals. Psychological stress exposure for 16 h caused gastric lesion in mice. VG extract (25-50 mg/kg, PO) and majonoside-R2 (6.2-12.5 mg/kg, PO), as well as diazepam and naloxone, produced the protective action on gastric lesion in psychologically stressed mice. These results suggest that VG and its major constituent majonoside-R2 have the protective effects on the psychological stress-induced pathophysiological changes and that benzodiazepine receptors are partly implicated in the effects of majonoside-R2.
Magnetic resonance imaging of NMDA-induced lesion of the medial preoptic area and changes in sleep, temperature and sex behaviour.	Destruction of the medial preoptic area (mPOA) neurons of rat brain, induced by intracerebral injection of N-methyl D-aspartic acid (NMDA), has been studied by employing the non-invasive Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) technique. Changes in the MRI images are compared and correlated with the functional changes after the mPOA lesion. The progress of the lesion at the injected site has been monitored (using MRI) from 15 min to 1 month after the stereotaxic microinfusion of NMDA (5 micrograms in 0.2 microliter). This study shows that the localised hyperintense (bright) area starts appearing at the mPOA from 3 h after NMDA injection, and the brightness increases progressively for about 2 days. The size and brightness of hyperintense area decrease thereafter. It has not been possible to locate the lesion site after 3 days, using MRI, except in one rat where a vacuole-like area was seen at the NMDA injected site on postmortem histological examination. The reduction in sleep after the mPOA lesion does not show any correlation with the changes in MRI, as it persists throughout the 3 weeks of recording. On the other hand, the initial drastic reduction in male sex behaviour and the increase in body temperature correlated to some extent with the increased brightness in MRI at the site of lesion. The size and location of the hyperintense area, observed during the first 2 days, match with the lesioned area which was histologically identified after 1 month of NMDA administration. Control administration of normal saline into the mPOA did not produce any alteration in the brightness of the MRI image and practically no loss of neurons at the injected site. Though some functional changes have correlation with the alteration in MRI, this cannot be used to interpret the changes in all the physiological parameters. This study also demonstrates that the disappearance of the brightness in MRI should not be taken to indicate a positive prognosis. Though the lesion could not be seen in MRI within 2 hours, its detection after 3-4 h (but within 3 days) after NMDA lesion would give very valuable information for long term studies.
Melatonin and its new agonist S-20098 restore synchronized sleep fragmented by experimental trypanosome infection in the rat.	The experimental infection with the parasite Trypanosoma brucei in the rat provides a unique model of dysfunction of the sleep regulatory mechanisms, because the length of synchronized sleep episodes is selectively and dramatically reduced in the advanced stages of the disease. In the present study, melatonin was acutely administered (3 mg/kg SC) to trypanosome-infected rats, before the sleep onset. This treatment resulted in a significant increase of the length of synchronized sleep episodes in respect to the infected animals and to those that had received only the vehicle. Thus, melatonin restored a normal sleep pattern during the infection. Similar findings were obtained with the new melatonin agonist S-20098. The sleep parameters were not significantly modified by either melatonin or S-20098 acute administration to noninfected animals. These findings indicate that exogenous melatonin and S-20098 exert a selective regulatory action on sleep fragmentation during experimental trypanosomiasis.
Possible involvement of alpha 2-adrenoceptor on the hypnotic action of flunitrazepam.	This study examined whether the pharmacologic manipulation of catecholaminergic systems would affect the hypnotic action of flunitrazepam in rats. Flunitrazepam, a potent hypnotic, was used alone or in combination with alpha-methyl paratyrosine (alpha MPT), an inhibitor of the synthesis of catecholamines, and clonidine (CLN), an alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist. Flunitrazepam significantly increased the amount of slow-wave sleep and the latency of paradoxical sleep (PS) and decreased the amount of PS. Administration of flunitrazepam to alpha MPT-treated rats significantly increased the number of sleep cycles and PS episodes as compared with flunitrazepam alone. Clonidine decreased total sleep time and significantly decreased PS. The association of flunitrazepam with CLN induced a decrease in PS and waking as compared with flunitrazepam alone. The possible involvement of noradrenergic mechanisms in modulating the effect of flunitrazepam on the rat sleep-waking cycle is proposed.
Longitudinal effects of nortriptyline on EEG sleep and the likelihood of recurrence in elderly depressed patients.	Our objectives were to determine the effects of nortriptyline and placebo on subjective and EEG sleep measures over 1 year of maintenance therapy in elderly depressed patients and to determine the relationship of such effects to recurrence in nortriptyline or placebo-treated patients during maintenance therapy. EEG and subjective sleep assessments were conducted before and during a maintenance therapy study of patients suffering from major depression. During acute treatment all patients received nortriptyline plus interpersonal psychotherapy (IPT). During maintenance treatment patients were randomly assigned to double-blind treatment in one of four cells: nortriptyline with IPT; nortriptyline with medication clinic (no IPT); placebo with IPT; or placebo with medication clinic. Sleep evaluations were conducted at one point before treatment, one point following remission during continuation nortriptyline/IPT treatment, and at three time points after random assignment to maintenance treatment. The setting was the sleep laboratory of the outpatient depression treatment clinic, and subjects were a convenience sample of media-recruited and clinically referred elderly outpatient depressed patients (n = 72). Complete sleep analyses were conducted for 21 nortriptyline- and 10 placebo-treated patients throughout 1 year of maintenance treatment. The main outcome measures were subjective and EEG sleep measures and the recurrence of major depression. Our results show that nortriptyline acutely and persistently decreased REM sleep, increased phasic REM activity, decreased sleep apnea, and had no effect on periodic limb movements during sleep. Recurrence on maintenance nortriptyline was associated with lower phasic REM activity during early continuation therapy, but EEG sleep measures did not predict recurrence during placebo maintenance therapy. Patients treated with nortriptyline had a lower recurrence rate than those treated with placebo. Better subjective sleep quality and maintenance IPT were associated with a lower rate of recurrence regardless of nortriptyline treatment. It seems that nortriptyline has persistent effects on REM sleep and sleep apnea in elderly depressed patients. Maintenance nortriptyline, maintenance IPT, good subjective sleep quality, and high-phasic REM activity are associated with a reduced likelihood of the recurrence of depression during maintenance therapy.
Neuropharmacological actions of Pluchea indica Less root extract in socially isolated mice.	The effects of Pluchea indica Less root extract (PI-E) on locomotor activity and pentobarbital-induced sleep, social isolation-induced aggressive behavior, motor coordination in the rotarod test, pentylenetetrazole-induced convulsion and nociceptive responses in the tail-pinch test were examined in mice. Socially isolated mice showed higher locomotor activity and shorter duration of pentobarbital sleep than group-housed mice. PI-E (50-100 mg/kg, p.o.) significantly decreased locomotor activity and prolonged pentobarbital sleep in a dose-dependent manner in isolated mice but not in group-housed mice. At a large dose (400 mg/kg, p.o.), PI-E not only decreased locomotor activity but also prolonged pentobarbital sleep in group-housed mice. The reference drug diazepam, at 0.5 mg/kg, also suppressed the locomotor activity in isolated mice but not in group-housed mice. Moreover, diazepam, at 0.1 and 0.5 mg/kg, significantly prolonged pentobarbital sleep in both isolated mice and group-housed mice. The effects of PI-E and diazepam on pentobarbital sleep in isolated mice were significantly attenuated by flumazenil (1 mg/kg, i.v.). PI-E (50-100 mg/kg), as well as diazepam (0.5-5 mg/kg, p.o.), dose-dependently suppressed social isolation-induced aggressive behavior, but it had no effect on pentylenetetrazole-induced convulsion, motor coordination in the rotarod test, or nociceptive response in the tail pinch test in group-housed mice. These results suggest that PI-E attenuates pathophysiological changes caused by social isolation stress in mice, and that the GABAergic system is partly involved in the action of PI-E on a social isolation-induced decrease in pentobarbital sleep.
Behavioral studies on alkaloids extracted from the leaves of Hunteria zeylanica.	The effects of a crude methanol extract, butanol- and chloroform-fractions, and a pure compound, corymine, extracted from the leaves of H. zeylanica on locomotor activity and rearing, pentobarbital-induced sleep, and drug-induced convulsions were studied in mice. The methanol extract dose-dependently decreased rearing without a significant effect on locomotor activity at doses of 15, 60 and 120 mg/kg. It did not significantly prolong the sleeping time but potentiated the convulsions induced by strychnine, but not that by either picrotoxin or pentylenetetrazole, at a dose of 120 mg/kg. The butanol-fraction significantly prolonged sleeping time at a dose of 125 mg/kg but did not affect either of the convulsive drugs. The chloroform fraction prolonged sleeping time at doses of 62.5 and 125 mg/kg and potentiated the convulsions induced by either strychnine or picrotoxin, but not that by pentylenetetrazole, at doses of 15, 30, 60 and 120 mg/kg. Corymine did not significantly prolong sleeping time, but potentiated the convulsions induced by either strychnine or picrotoxin, not by pentylenetetrazole, at doses of 2, 8 and 15 mg/kg. These results suggest that crude alkaloidal extracts of H. zeylanica leaves produce biphasic effects on the central nervous system (CNS), depression and stimulation, while the pure compound, corymine, has a unique central stimulatory effect in mice.
Effects of dietary vegetable oils on behavior and drug responses in mice.	Previously, we noted significant differences in the behavioral patterns of mice fed safflower oil with a very low alpha-linolenate/linoleate ratio and perilla oil with a high alpha-linolenate/linoleate ratio from mothers to offsprings. In this report, we compared the behavior and drug responses in mice fed diets containing six different vegetable oils-corn, rapeseed, soybean, safflower, perilla and a mixture of perilla and safflower oils- for a relatively short period: 8 months after weaning. Soybean oil is a component of most conventional diets and was used as a control. The alpha-linolenate/linoleate ratios of the oils appeared to affect the locomotor activities in a wheel cage: the activity decreased in the order of safflower, the mixture (1:1) and the perilla oil groups. However, the rapeseed oil group exhibited much higher locomotor activity than that expected from the alpha-linolenate/linoleate ratio. Additionally, the rapeseed oil group exhibited unusual behavior patterns, including higher ambulation and rearing activities, faster acquisition of the water maze task and slower habituation behavior as compared with the control group. Susceptibility to pentobarbital anesthesia tended to be higher in the rapeseed oil group. The differences in the alpha-linolenate/linoleate ratios of these oils alone do not account for the observed differences in the behavioral patterns among the six dietary groups. Although we cannot exclude the possibility that the observed behavioral anomaly is due to the unique fatty acid composition of rapeseed oil, we speculate that a factor(s) other than fatty acids in rapeseed oil affected nervous system functions.
Electrographic patterns of postprandial sleep after food deprivation or intraventricular adrenaline injections in pigeons.	Intense postprandial sleep-like behavior was previously reported to occur, in a similar fashion, either after feeding evoked by intracerebroventricular adrenaline injections or after interruption of prolonged (96 h) fasting in conscious pigeons. These behavioral similarities were taken as indication of a physiological role for central adrenergic circuits in avian food intake regulation. In the present study we compared sleep-related electrographic signs (EEG, EMG, and EOG) that develop following both food intake-inducing situations to further examine these correspondences and their corollaries. Our data indicate that postprandial behaviors in the pigeon include dramatic increases in the incidence of slow-wave (SWS) and rapid eye movement sleep (REMS). The temporal distribution, total amount, and mean bout duration of these sleep states, as well as the latency for the first SWS episode, were statistically similar in both feeding behavior-inducing situations. Besides confirming early behavioral data, indicative of an engagement of adrenergic central components in food intake control, our results suggest that postprandial SWS could represent an important element of the feeding-related metabolic changes in pigeons, in a similar fashion to the observed in mammalian forms.
Felbamate monotherapy has stimulant-like effects in patients with epilepsy.	The objective of this study was to assess the psychiatric effects of the antiepileptic drug (AED) felbamate (FBM) in patients with epilepsy. FBM is a new AED with a novel putative (antiglutaminergic) mechanism. Older AEDs such as carbamazepine and valproate have psychotropic properties, but the psychiatric effects of FBM and other new antiglutamatergic AEDs remain to be determined. Thirty inpatients with refractory epilepsy were openly tapered off all AEDs in conjunction with intensive presurgical monitoring prior to a two week randomized double-blind parallel trial of FBM monotherapy versus placebo, followed by open FBM therapy. Psychopathology was rated with weekly psychiatric rating scales. Anxiety, depression and seizures increased significantly with AED discontinuation. Acute blind FBM monotherapy yielded antiepileptic and stimulant-like effects (insomnia, anorexia, and anxiety), but failed to influence AED withdrawal-emergent psychopathology. Restarting original AEDs resolved such pathology in FBM drop outs. Chronic open FBM also had stimulant-like effects, with half of the patients displaying psychiatric deterioration and the other half modest improvement compared to baseline therapies. Baseline insomnia and anxiety may be markers for poorer psychiatric responses to chronic open FBM. FBM had stimulant-like effects, lacked anxiolytic effects, and failed to attenuate AED withdrawal-emergent psychopathology. Baseline insomnia or anxiety may predict poorer psychiatric responses to FBM. Further studies are required to assess whether the novel psychiatric effects observed with FBM also occur with other new antiglutamatergic AEDs.
Interleukin-4 inhibits spontaneous sleep in rabbits.	Proinflammatory cytokines, including interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha, are involved in sleep regulation. IL-4 is an antiinflammatory cytokine that inhibits proinflammatory cytokine production. The hypothesis that IL-4 should attenuate sleep was studied by determining the effects of IL-4 on rabbit spontaneous sleep. Thirty-six rabbits were used. Four doses of IL-4 (0.25, 2.5, 25, and 250 ng) were injected intracerebroventricularly during the rest (light) period. One dose of IL-4 (25 ng) was injected during the active (dark) cycle. Appropriate time-matched control injections of saline were done in the same rabbits on different days. The three highest doses of IL-4 significantly inhibited spontaneous non-rapid eye movement sleep if IL-4 was given during the light cycle. The highest dose of IL-4 (250 ng) also significantly decreased rapid eye movement sleep. On the other hand, IL-4 administered at dark onset had no effect on sleep. The sleep inhibitory properties of IL-4 provide additional evidence for the hypothesis that a brain cytokine network is involved in the regulation of physiological sleep.
Effects of melatonin in two individuals with Alzheimer's disease.	Dementia has been associated with circadian rhythm disturbances expressed in several dimensions including body temperature, hormonal concentrations, sleep and wakefulness patterns, and rest-activity cycles. These disturbances may be the result of a dampening in the amplitude of the circadian rhythm. One of the symptoms associated with the aging process has been a decline in the amplitude of the melatonin rhythm. Here, the results of melatonin administration to two patients with Alzheimer's disease are presented. Melatonin administration enhanced and stabilized the circadian rest-activity rhythm in one of the patients along with some reduction of daytime sleepiness and an improvement in mood. The other patient, who was characterized by less cognitive impairment, showed no significant changes associated with melatonin ingestion. Interestingly, the acrophase of rest-activity was delayed for about one hour in both patients. These results suggest that melatonin may have beneficial effects in some patients with Alzheimer's disease.
Sch 50971, an orally active histamine H3 receptor agonist, inhibits central neurogenic vascular inflammation and produces sedation in the guinea pig.	We studied the actions of Sch 50971, a novel histamine H3 receptor agonist, in an experimental neurogenic model of migraine and characterized its sedative and respiratory actions. Sch 50971 (i.v. and p.o) inhibited plasma protein extravasation in the dura mater of guinea pigs after electrical stimulation of the trigeminal ganglia. The minimum effective doses of Sch 50971 were 3.0 mg/kg i.v. and 10 mg/kg p.o., which produced a 40% and 42% decrease in plasma protein extravasation, respectively. The effects of Sch 50971 (3.0 mg/kg i.v. ) were blocked by the histamine H3 antagonist thioperamide (3.0 mg/kg i.v.). The 5-HT1D agonist, sumatriptan (0.3 mg/kg i.v.), and the histamine H3 agonist, (R)-alpha-methylhistamine (0.3 mg/kg), also inhibited plasma extravasation by 40 and 46%. In sedation studies, Sch 50971 (1-100 mg/kg p.o.) potentiated pentobarbital-induced sleep. The ED40 min for Sch 50971, the benzodiazepines triazolam and diazepam, the histamine H1 antagonist diphenhydramine and the H3 receptor agonist (R)-alpha-methylhistamine were 7.0, 0.5, 2.3, 14.1 and 23.4 mg/kg p. o., respectively. The sedative effects of oral Sch 50971 was blocked by thioperamide (10 microgram i.c.v.). The sedative activity of Sch 50971 was also examined using EEG activity, locomotor activity and sleep. In conscious guinea pigs, Sch 50971 (10 mg/kg p.o.) depressed locomotor activity, increased total sleep time and produced EEG patterns consistent with physiological sleep. Sch 50971 decreased beta wave activity but had no effects on delta wave activity, theta activity or alpha wave activity. In contrast, triazolam (1.0 mg/kg p. o.) depressed delta and theta wave activity and produced large increases in alpha and beta wave activity. In conclusion, Sch 50971 is an orally active, potent and selective agonist of histamine H3 receptors that may act to ameliorate the sequelae of migraine headaches, where activation of histamine H3 receptors may be beneficial. Sch 50971 also decreases motor activity and promotes EEG activity consistent with physiological sleep.
Effects of trazodone hydrochloride and imipramine on polysomnography in healthy subjects.	Polysomnography was performed on eight healthy men with trazodone hydrochloride, imipramine and placebo. Trazodone hydrochloride increased slow wave sleep significantly. Imipramine prolonged rapid eye movement (REM) latency and decreased the percentage of REM sleep significantly. Trazodone decreased stages 1 and 2 sleep, while imipramine increased it. These findings suggest that the antidepressive effect of trazodone might be different from that of imipramine with the suppression of REM sleep.
Pharmacological characterization of 6-bromo-3'-nitroflavone, a synthetic flavonoid with high affinity for the benzodiazepine receptors.	6-Bromo-3'-nitroflavone is a synthetic flavone derivative that selectively recognizes benzodiazepine receptors and has potent anxiolytic-like effects. Here, we describe in detail its pharmacological characterization. When i.p. injected in mice, 6-bromo-3'-nitroflavone (0.01-0.3 mg/kg) had an anxiolytic-like effect in the elevated plus-maze test. This effect was blocked by the specific benzodiazepine receptor antagonist, flumazenil. In addition, it exhibited anxiolytic-like actions when given orally (1 mg/kg). 6-Bromo-3'-nitroflavone did not exhibit myorelaxant effects (up to 30 mg/kg, i.p.). Unlike diazepam, this flavonoid produced no anterograde amnesia in a one-trial inhibitory avoidance learning. On the other hand, 6-bromo-3'-nitroflavone possessed mild anticonvulsant activity (0.1 mg/kg, i.p.) and provoked sedative-depressant actions only at doses 100-1000 times higher than those producing anxiolytic-like effects. 6-Bromo-3'-nitroflavone (0.1-1 mM) produced a lower potentiation of gamma-amino-butyric acid (GABA)-stimulated 36Cl- influx (126-138%) in comparison to diazepam (0.1 mM: 166%) in cerebral cortical membrane vesicles. Taken together, these findings suggest that 6-bromo-3'-nitroflavone has anxiolytic-like action possibly behaving as a partial agonist of the benzodiazepine receptors.
Open trial of nefazodone for combat-related posttraumatic stress disorder.	Because of its ability to block 5-HT2 receptors postsynaptically and inhibit 5-HT reuptake presynaptically and/or its enhancement of sleep quality, nefazodone may be useful for symptom management in posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) patients.
Effect of pregnane steroids on electrocortical activity and somatosensory evoked potentials in fetal sheep.	The effect of infusing the neuroactive steroids pregnanolone and iso-pregnanolone on somatosensory evoked potentials (SEP) and electrocortical (ECoG) activity was studied in unanaesthetised fetal sheep, 130-135 days gestation. Intravenous infusion of pregnanolone (6 mg/kg per h) significantly increased the proportion of high voltage ECoG (56.1+/-4.8% vs. control 43.5+/-3.2%, P < 0.05), and decreased low voltage ECoG (43.9+/-4.8% vs. control 56.6+/-3.2%, P < 0.05). Pregnanolone treatment decreased the amplitude of the N25 peak of the SEP (89.9+/-2.8% of control, P < 0.05) evoked following stimulation of the skin of the upper lip. In contrast, iso-pregnanolone treatment had no effect on ECoG activities, or on the amplitude and latency of peaks in the SEP. We conclude that 3alpha-hydroxy pregnane steroids are active at GABA(A) receptors in fetal sheep and can modulate sleep/wake activity before birth.
Synthesis and sedative-hypnotic effects of N3-allyl- and N1-allyl-5,6-substituted 2-thiouracil derivatives in mice.	Twenty four thiouracil derivatives, including N3-allyl- (19) and N1-allyl-2-thiouracil (20) were synthesized and their pharmacological effects [sedative-hypnotic activity (loss of righting reflex and spontaneous activity), convulsant activity, effect on pentobarbital (PB)-induced sleep and mortality] were evaluated in mice at doses of 320 mg/kg, i.p. and 2 mumol/mouse by intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injections, respectively. N3-Allyl-6-propyl-2-thiouracil (3), N3-allyl-5,6-dimethyl-2-thiouracil (10), N3-allyl-1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9-nonahydro-4-oxo-2-thiocyclohepta [d]pyrimidine (16) and N3-allyl-5-methyl-2-thiouracil (18) exhibited sedative-hypnotic activity, whereas N3-allyl-6-ethyl-5-methyl-2-thiouracil (11), N1-allyl-5-methyl-2-thiouracil (21), N1-allyl-1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9-nonahydro-4-oxo-2-thiocyclohepta[ d]pyrimidine (23) and N1-allyl-5,6-dimethyl-2-thiouracil (24) conversely displayed clonic- and/or tonic-convulsant seizures. N3-Allyl-6-propyl-2-thiouracil (3) and N3-allyl-5-methyl-2-thiouracil (18) decreased spontaneous activity. Other compounds examined were inactive, or only slightly active in the sedative-hypnotic assay even at high doses. Fifteen compounds (1-4, 7, 10, 11, 14-16, 18-21, and 23) significantly prolonged the PB-induced sleeping time. Interestingly, only N1-allyl-5,6-dimethyl-2-thiouracil (24) shortened the PB-induced sleeping time. These results showed that these thiouracils possessed many different effects such as sedative-hypnotic, anticonvulsant and/or convulsant, and that N3-allyl-5-methyl-2-thiouracil (18) and N1-allyl-5,6-dimethyl-2-thiouracil (24) had the most potent hypnotic activity and antagonistic effect against PB, respectively.
Synthesis and pharmacological activities in mice of halogenated delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol derivatives.	Seven halogenated derivatives of delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta 9-THC, 1) substituted on the aromatic ring at the 2 and/or 4 position, 2 (4)-fluoro- (2), 2,4-difluoro- (3), 2-chloro- (4), 2-bromo- (5), 2,4-dibromo- (6), 2-iodo- (7) and 2,4-diiodo-delta 9-THC (8) were synthesized and pharmacological effects such as catalepsy, anticonvulsant effects, hypothermia, pentobarbital-induced sleep prolongation and locomotor activity evaluated by intracerebroventricular (i.c.v., 25 micrograms/head) and intravenous (i.v., 5 or 10 mg/kg) injections in mice. The cataleptogenic effects of 2 and 5 were about three-quarters and two-thirds, respectively, compared to those of 1 (i.v.), though other derivatives were much less active (i.c.v. and i.v.). 2 (for clonic seizures) exhibited a significant prolongation of seizure latency induced by pentylenetetrazol (i.v.). Hypothermic effects of monohalogenated derivatives were comparable to 1 when administered by i.v. injection, whereas the effects of dihalogenated derivatives of 1 were attenuated. In contrast, 3 and 8 exhibited a significant hyperthermic effect in mice. In synergy with pentobarbital, 4 and 5 exhibited a significant prolongation of sleeping time by 1.6- and 1.8-fold, respectively, compared with control (32.4 +/- 2.5 min), although other derivatives did not affect significantly the sleeping time (i.c.v.). However, by i.v. injection, 2, 4, 5 and 7 significantly prolonged pentobarbital-induced sleeping time and reduced locomotor activity. The sleep prolonging effects of 2, 4 and 7 (10 mg/kg, i.v.) were as potent as that of 1 (5 mg/kg, i.v.). 5 and 7 were the most potent derivatives among the synthetic cannabinoids examined in the present study. These results indicate that halogenation of 1 leads to modification of the pharmacological profile of THC.
Comparative study to determine the optimal melatonin dosage form for the alleviation of jet lag.	To compare the impact of various dosage forms of melatonin and placebo on jet lag symptoms, 320 volunteers who had flights over 6 to 8 time zones were recruited for a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study. The volunteers received either melatonin 0.5-mg fast-release (FR) formulation, melatonin 5-mg FR formulation, melatonin 2-mg controlled-release (CR) formulation, or placebo. The study medication was taken once daily at bedtime during 4 days after an eastward flight. The volunteers completed the Profile of Mood States (POMS), sleep log, and symptoms questionnaires once daily and the Karolinska Sleepiness Scale (KSS) three times daily prior to departure and during the 4 days of medication intake postflight. A total of 234 (73.1%) participants were compliant and completed the study. The FR melatonin formulations were more effective than the slow-release formulation. The 5-mg FR formulation significantly improved the self-rated sleep quality (p < .05), shortened sleep latency (p < .05), and reduced fatigue and daytime sleepiness (p < .05) after intercontinental flight. The lower physiological dose of 0.5 mg was almost as effective as the pharmacological dose of 5.0 mg. Only the hypnotic properties of melatonin, sleep quality and sleep latency, were significantly greater with the 5.0-mg dose.
Effects of isoflavones on alcohol pharmacokinetics and alcohol-drinking behavior in rats.	Puerarin, daidzin, and daidzein are 3 major isoflavonoid compounds isolated from Pueraria lobata, an edible vine used widely in China for various medicinal purposes. We studied the antiinebriation and the antidipsotropic effects of these antioxidants in rats. Daidzin and daidzein shortened alcohol-induced sleep time (loss of righting reflex) in rats that were given ethanol intragastrically but not in those given ethanol intraperitoneally. When daidzin was given to animals intragastrically with the ethanol solution, the blood alcohol concentration (BAC) was found to peak later and be lower than in control rats that were given only the ethanol solution. BACs also receded more slowly if daidzin was fed to the animals. None of the 3 isoflavonoid compounds administered orally affected liver alcohol dehydrogenase or aldehyde dehydrogenase activities, as was reported for intraperitoneal administration. Further experiments indicated that the suppression of the BAC by daidzin was due mainly to delay of stomach emptying. All 3 compounds suppressed voluntary alcohol consumption in alcohol-preferring rats. The decrease in alcohol consumption was accompanied by an increase in water intake, so that the total volume of liquid consumed daily remained unchanged. Daily food consumption and body weight gain were not affected. Alcohol preference returned to baseline levels after the isoflavonoids were discontinued. We postulate that the suppression of alcohol reinforcement produced by these compounds is mediated centrally in the brain reward pathway.
Effect of sustained nocturnal transbuccal melatonin administration on sleep and temperature in elderly insomniacs.	Previous research has suggested a role for the pineal hormone melatonin in the control of the body's sleep-wake and thermoregulatory systems. In the elderly population, there have been reports of decreased nighttime secretion of melatonin and suggestions that this may, in turn, be responsible for the increased incidence of sleep disorders reported by this age group. On this basis, it has been suggested that augmented nocturnal melatonin levels may improve sleep quality in age-related sleep disorders. Following screening assessments, 12 elderly (> 55 years) subjects with sleep maintenance insomnia were treated with either 0.5 mg transbuccal melatonin or a placebo for two sessions of 4 consecutive nights, at least 3 days apart. Subjects self-selected lights-out times, and sleep was assessed using standard polysomnographic (PSG) measures. Body temperature was measured continually from 2100 to 0700 h, and sleep quality was assessed from PSG variables measured. Nightly urine samples were assayed for the melatonin metabolite 6-sulfatoxy-melatonin (aMT.6S). Compared to the placebo, transbuccal melatonin administration significantly increased mean nocturnal aMT.6S excretion (mean +/- SEM: 194.2 +/- 16.5 vs. 42.5 +/- 7.7 nmol). In addition, there was a significant reduction in core body temperature relative to the placebo condition (p < .05). However, sustained transbuccal melatonin treatment had no positive significant effect on any PSG measure of sleep quality. The results from the present study suggest that sustained nocturnal administration of melatonin, in the low pharmacological range, might be of limited clinical benefit in this subject population.
Opioid therapy for chronic noncancer back pain. A randomized prospective study.	A randomized, open, long-term, repeated-dose comparison of an anti-inflammatory drug and two opioid regimens in 36 patients with back pain.
Efficacy of clomipramine in the treatment of canine compulsive disorder.	To assess the efficacy of clomipramine for treatment of canine compulsive disorder (CCD).
An endogenous sleep-inducing compound is a novel competitive inhibitor of fatty acid amide hydrolase.	2-Octyl gamma-bromoacetoacetate (O gamma Br), an endogenous compound originally isolated from human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), has previously been demonstrated to increase REM sleep duration in cats. Based on the chemical structure of O gamma Br and its reported sleep-inducing effects, we synthesized O gamma Br along with chemically related analogs and tested these compounds as inhibitors of fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH), a brain enzyme that degrades neuromodulatory fatty acid amides. O gamma Br was found to competitively inhibit FAAH activity with IC50 and Ki values of 2.6 microM and 0.8 microM, respectively [for the (R)-enantiomer of O gamma Br (1)]. A set of synthetic analogs of O gamma Br was examined to define the structural features required for FAAH inhibition and inhibitor potencies were assessed at pH 9.0 (near the pH optimum of FAAH) and pH 7.0. Interestingly, at pH 7.0 the gamma-halo beta-keto ester inhibitors proved to be significantly more potent than the trifluoromethyl ketone of oleic acid, one of the most potent FAAH inhibitors described to date. This study supports the possibility that O gamma Br may be a physiological regulator of FAAH activity and fatty acid amide levels in vivo. Additionally, the characterization of gamma-halo beta-keto esters as powerful FAAH inhibitors near physiological pH may aid in future studies of the enzymology and biological properties of FAAH.
Daytime melatonin infusions induce sleep in pigeons without altering subsequent amounts of nocturnal sleep.	Daily infusions of melatonin restore sleep suppressed by continuous bright light in pigeons. To test whether melatonin could also induce sleep in pigeons on a 12:12 h light-dark cycle (LD), pigeons received 12-h intravenous melatonin infusions during the day. Melatonin induced sleep during the day, increased EEG slow wave activity, and decreased body temperature and locomotor activity. None of these variables were altered during the night following infusions. The induction of extended daytime sleep by melatonin infusions indicates that melatonin is a principal factor in the regulation of sleep in pigeons.
Enhancement of slow-wave sleep by tumor necrosis factor-alpha is mediated by cyclooxygenase-2 in rats.	Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha) was infused into the subarachnoid space of the rat rostral basal forebrain, which was previously defined as a prostaglandin (PG) D2-sensitive, sleep-promoting zone. TNFalpha increased the amount of slow-wave sleep (SWS), decreased that of paradoxical sleep (PS), and caused fever and anorexia. The TNFalpha-induced SWS enhancement, fever and anorexia were all blocked by co-infusion of diclofenac, a non-selective cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitor, and by pretreatment with NS-398, a COX-2-specific inhibitor. In striking contrast, the TNFalpha-induced suppression of PS was not affected by the inhibitors. These results indicate that COX-2-mediated hyperproduction of PGs is critically involved in the enhancement of SWS, fever, and anorexia but not in the suppression of PS, caused by TNFalpha infused into the PGD2-sensitive zone.
