Disruption of transforming growth factor beta-Smad signaling pathway in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma as evidenced by mutations of SMAD2 and SMAD4.	The role of the TGF-beta-Smad signaling pathway in the carcinogenesis of head and neck cancer has not been fully evaluated genetically. In this study, we screened for mutation in the five main members of the TGF-beta -Smad signaling pathway, TGF-beta type I receptor (TGFBRI), TGF-beta type II receptor (TGFBRII), SMAD2, SMAD3 and SMAD4, in eight human head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) cell lines. Two mutations with presumed loss of heterozygosity (LOH) were identified. A novel missense mutation of SMAD2, located in exon 8 at codon 276 TCG (ser) -->TTG (leu), was identified in cell line SCC-15. This is the first report of a biallelic mutation of the SMAD2 gene in HNSCC. A nonsense mutation of the SMAD4 gene in exon 5 codon 245 CAG (glut) -->TAG (stop) was found in cell line CAL27. Western blotting verified that this nonsense mutation gives rise to the complete loss of the Smad4 protein in the cells. While the down-regulation and loss of expressions of the TGF-beta-Smad signaling pathway have been described frequently in HNSCC, here we offer further genetic evidence that the pathway is directly targeted for mutation during the HNSCC tumorigenesis.
Endoglin increases eNOS expression by modulating Smad2 protein levels and Smad2-dependent TGF-beta signaling.	The endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) is a critical regulator of cardiovascular homeostasis, whose dysregulation leads to different vascular pathologies. Endoglin is a component of the transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) receptor complex present in endothelial cells that is involved in angiogenesis, cardiovascular development, and vascular homeostasis. Haploinsufficient expression of endoglin has been shown to downregulate endothelium-derived nitric oxide in endoglin(+/-) (Eng(+/-)) mice and cultured endothelial cells. Here, we find that TGF-beta1 leads to an increased vasodilatation in Eng(+/+) mice that is severely impaired in Eng(+/-) mice, suggesting the involvement of endoglin in the TGF-beta regulated vascular homeostasis. The endoglin-dependent induction of eNOS occurs at the transcriptional level and is mediated by the type I TGF-beta receptor ALK5 and its downstream substrate Smad2. In addition, Smad2-specific signaling is upregulated in endoglin-induced endothelial cells, whereas it is downregulated upon endoglin gene suppression with small interference RNA (siRNA). The endoglin-dependent upregulation of Smad2 was confirmed using eNOS and pARE promoters, whose activities are known to be Smad2 dependent, as well as with the interference of Smad2 with siRNA, Smurf2, or a dominant negative form of Smad2. Furthermore, increased expression of endoglin in endoglin-inducible endothelial cells or in transfectants resulted in increased levels of Smad2 protein without affecting the levels of Smad2 mRNA. The increased levels of Smad2 appear to be due to a decreased ubiquitination and proteasome-dependent degradation leading to stabilization of Smad2. These results suggest that endoglin enhances Smad2 protein levels potentiating TGF-beta signaling, and leading to an increased eNOS expression in endothelial cells.
A tale of two proteins: differential roles and regulation of Smad2 and Smad3 in TGF-beta signaling.	Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) is an important growth inhibitor of epithelial cells, and insensitivity to this cytokine results in uncontrolled cell proliferation and can contribute to tumorigenesis. Smad2 and Smad3 are direct mediators of TGF-beta signaling, however little is known about the selective activation of Smad2 versus Smad3. The Smad2 and Smad3 knockout mouse phenotypes and studies comparing Smad2 and Smad3 activation of TGF-beta target genes, suggest that Smad2 and Smad3 have distinct roles in TGF-beta signaling. The observation that TGF-beta inhibits proliferation of Smad3-null mammary gland epithelial cells, whereas Smad3 deficient fibroblasts are only partially growth inhibited, suggests that Smad3 has a different role in epithelial cells and fibroblasts. Herein, the current understanding of Smad2 and Smad3-mediated TGF-beta signaling and their relative roles are discussed, in addition to potential mechanisms for the selective activation of Smad2 versus Smad3. Since alterations in the TGF-beta signaling pathway play an important role in promoting tumorigenesis and cancer progression, methods for therapeutic targeting of the TGF-beta signaling pathway are being pursued. Determining how Smad2 or Smad3 differentially regulate the TGF-beta response may translate into developing more effective strategies for cancer therapy.
TGFbeta3 inhibits E-cadherin gene expression in palate medial-edge epithelial cells through a Smad2-Smad4-LEF1 transcription complex.	Dissociation of medial-edge epithelium (MEE) during palate development is essential for mediating correct craniofacial morphogenesis. This phenomenon is initiated by TGFbeta3 upon adherence of opposing palatal shelves, because loss of E-cadherin causes the MEE seam to break into small epithelial islands. To investigate the molecular mechanisms that cause this E-cadherin loss, we isolated and cultured murine embryonic primary MEE cells from adhered or non-adhered palates. Here, we provide the first evidence that lymphoid enhancer factor 1 (LEF1), when functionally activated by phosphorylated Smad2 (Smad2-P) and Smad4 (rather than beta-catenin), binds with the promoter of the E-cadherin gene to repress its transcription in response to TGFbeta3 signaling. Furthermore, we found that TGFbeta3 signaling stimulates epithelial-mesenchymal transformation (EMT) and cell migration in these cells. LEF1 and Smad4 were found to be necessary for up-regulation of the mesenchymal markers vimentin and fibronectin, independently of beta-catenin. We proved that TGFbeta3 signaling induces EMT in MEE cells by forming activated transcription complexes of Smad2-P, Smad4 and LEF1 that directly inhibit E-cadherin gene expression.
Activation of transforming growth factor-beta1/Smads signal pathway in diabetic cardiomyopathy and effects of valsartan thereon: experiment with rats]	To study the activation of transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta(1)/Smads signal pathway in diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM) and effects of valsartan thereon.
Effects of tanshinone IIA on transforming growth factor beta1-Smads signal pathway in renal interstitial fibroblasts of rats.	The effects of tanshinone IIA (TSN) on transforming growth factor beta1 (TGFbeta1) signal transduction in renal interstitial fibroblasts of rats were studied in order to investigate its mechanism in prevention of renal interstitial fibrosis. Rat renal fibroblasts of the line NRK/49F were cultured in vitro, stimulated with 5 ng/mL TGFbeta1 and pretreated with 10(-6), 10(-5), 10(-4) mol/L TSN respectively. The mRNA levels of fibronectin (FN) were examined by RT-PCR. The protein expression of FN and Smads was detected by Western blot. TGFbeta1 induced the expression of FN mRNA and Smads in a time-dependent manner in a certain range. Compared with pre-stimulation, the FN mRNA and protein levels were increased by 1.1 times and 1.5 times respectively (P<0.01, P<0.01), and the protein expression of phosphorylated Smad2/3 (p-Smad2/3) increased by 7 times at the end of TGFbeta1 stimulation (P<0.01). TSN pretreatment may down-regulate the FN and p-Smad2/3 expression in a dose-dependent manner. 10(-6) mol/L TSN pretreatment had no effect on the FN and p-Smad2/3 expression (both P>0.05). After pretreatment with 10(-5) and 10(-4) mol/L TSN, the FN mRNA levels were decreased by 28.1% and 43.8% respectively (P<0.05, P<0.01), the FN protein levels were decreased by 40% and 44% respectively (P<0.05, P<0.05), and the p-Smad2/3 protein expression were decreased by 40% and 65% respectively (P<0.05, P<0.01). The inhibitory effect of TSN on renal interstitial fibrosis may be related to its blocking effect on TGFbeta1-Smads signal pathway in renal interstitial fibroblasts.
FAK mediates signal crosstalk between type II collagen and TGF-beta 1 cascades in chondrocytic cells.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the mechanism of crosstalk between the type II collagen and TGF-beta1 signaling pathways in chondrocytic cells. Articular chondrocytes, isolated from porcine knee cartilage, and the SW1353 cell line were cultured on either type II collagen-coated or -uncoated plates in the presence or absence of TGF-beta1. Expression of pSMAD 2, pSMAD 3, pFAK(Y397) and pFAK(Y925) in articular chondrocytes and the SW1353 cell line was analyzed by immunoblotting. Cell proliferation rates and glycosaminoglycan (GAG) content was determined after treatment with type II collagen or/and TGF-beta1. For inhibition study, human FAK-specific RNA small interference (siFAK) in SW1353 cell line was performed. In this study, expression of pSMAD 2, pSMAD 3, pFAK(Y397) and pFAK(Y925) were synergistically increased by co-treatment with type II collagen and TGF-beta1 in articular chondrocytes. The proliferation of porcine articular chondrocytes and GAG secretion in SW1353 cells were synergistically increased by co-stimulation with type II collagen and TGF-beta1. Synergistically increased expression and nuclear translocation of pSMAD 2 and pSMAD 3 and GAG secretion of SW1353 cells were significantly inhibited by siFAK transfection. Therefore, we suggest that FAK-SMAD 2/3 mediates signal crosstalk between type II collagen and TGF-beta1 and regulates GAG secretion in chondrocytic cells.
Geldanamycin inhibits TGF-beta signaling through induction of Hsp70.	Dysregulation of transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) signaling has been implicated in the pathogenesis of a variety of diseases including cancer; therefore, pharmacological inhibitors that target the TGF-beta signaling pathway might be promising drugs for disease therapy. In this study, we investigated the mechanism of inhibition of TGF-beta signaling by the Hsp90 inhibitor geldanamycin (GA). Treatment with GA suppressed TGF-beta signaling, as evidenced by inhibition of TGF-beta-induced phosphorylation and transcriptional activity of Smad3 and decreased induction of target genes. Western blot analysis revealed that GA induced degradation of TGF-beta type I and type II receptors through a proteasome-dependent pathway. Notably, induction of Hsp70 by GA correlated with inhibition of TGF-beta signaling. Suppression of Hsp70 expression by Hsp70 siRNA or KNK437, an inhibitor of Hsp70 synthesis, blocked the inhibition of TGF-beta signaling by GA. Furthermore, Hsp70 interacted directly with TGF-beta receptors following GA treatment. Our results suggest that GA-mediated induction of Hsp70 and its subsequent interaction with TGF-beta receptors plays a crucial role in inhibition of TGF-beta signaling.
Interleukin 11 and activin A synergise to regulate progesterone-induced but not cAMP-induced decidualization.	Blastocyst implantation, placentation and the establishment of pregnancy in the human are dependent on the adequate decidualization of endometrial stromal cells. Locally produced and temporally regulated products such as interleukin 11 (IL11), and activin A are involved in this process; however, the molecular interactions that regulate decidualization are largely unknown. Here, we investigated whether IL11 and activin A interact to promote human endometrial stromal cell (HESC) decidualization using an in vitro model. HESCs, induced to decidualize by cAMP or progesterone, were treated with IL11, activin A or IL11 plus activin A combined and decidual progress was examined using prolactin as a decidual marker. Treatment with combined IL11 plus activin A enhanced progesterone-induced decidualization above control or treatment with IL11 or activin A alone. Treatment had no effect on cAMP-decidualized HESC. Investigation of IL11 and activin A stimulation of (respectively) activin A and IL11 expression in undifferentiated HESC was by real-time PCR and ELISA. Activin A treatment induced IL11 secretion and phosphorylation of the activin A signalling component, SMAD2 (measured by ELISA). Inclusion of the TGFbeta 1 receptor inhibitor, SB431542, in the activin A treatment, reduced pSMAD2 and IL11 secretion. This study suggests that activin A is an early inducer of decidualization, regulating the secretion of IL11. This data provides insight into the processes underlying decidualization, which are important for understanding implantation and placentation and have potential clinical applications for the regulation of fertility.
A novel approach for the generation of genetically modified mammary epithelial cell cultures yields new insights into TGFβ signaling in the mammary gland.	Molecular dissection of the signaling pathways that underlie complex biological responses in the mammary epithelium is limited by the difficulty of propagating large numbers of mouse mammary epithelial cells, and by the inability of ribonucleic acid interference (RNAi)-based knockdown approaches to fully ablate gene function. Here we describe a method for the generation of conditionally immortalized mammary epithelial cells with defined genetic defects, and we show how such cells can be used to investigate complex signal transduction processes using the transforming growth factor beta (TGFβ/Smad pathway as an example.
Transforming growth factor-β signaling pathway activation in Keratoconus.	To assess the presence of transforming growth factor-β (TGFβ) pathway markers in the epithelium of keratoconus patient corneas.
Smad3 dosage determines androgen responsiveness and sets the pace of postnatal testis development.	The establishment and maturation of the testicular Sertoli cell population underpins adult male fertility. These events are influenced by hormones and endocrine factors, including FSH, testosterone and activin. Activin A has developmentally regulated effects on Sertoli cells, enhancing proliferation of immature cells and later promoting postmitotic maturation. These differential responses correlate with altered mothers against decapentaplegic (SMAD)-2/3 signaling: immature cells signal via SMAD3, whereas postmitotic cells use both SMAD2 and SMAD3. This study examined the contribution of SMAD3 to postnatal mouse testis development. We show that SMAD3 production and subcellular localization are highly regulated and, through histological and molecular analyses, identify effects of altered Smad3 dosage on Sertoli and germ cell development. Smad3(+/-) and Smad3(-/-) mice had smaller testes at 7 d postpartum, but this was not sustained into adulthood. Juvenile and adult serum FSH levels were unaffected by genotype. Smad3-null mice displayed delayed Sertoli cell maturation and had reduced expression of androgen receptor (AR), androgen-regulated transcripts, and Smad2, whereas germ cell and Leydig cell development were essentially normal. This contrasted remarkably with advanced Sertoli and germ cell maturation and increased expression of AR and androgen-regulated transcripts in Smad3(+/-) mice. In addition, SMAD3 was down-regulated during testis development and testosterone up-regulated Smad2, but not Smad3, in the TM4 Sertoli cell line. Collectively these data reveal that appropriate SMAD3-mediated signaling drives normal Sertoli cell proliferation, androgen responsiveness, and maturation and influences the pace of the first wave of spermatogenesis, providing new clues to causes of altered pubertal development in boys.
Smad2 and PEA3 cooperatively regulate transcription of response gene to complement 32 in TGF-β-induced smooth muscle cell differentiation of neural crest cells.	Response gene to complement 32 (RGC-32) is activated by transforming growth factor- β (TGF-β) and plays an important role in smooth muscle cell (SMC) differentiation from neural crest Monc-1 cells. The molecular mechanism governing TGF-β activation of RGC-32, however, remains to be determined. The present studies indicate that TGF-β regulates RGC-32 gene transcription. Sequence analysis revealed a Smad binding element (SBE) located in the region from -1344 to -1337 bp upstream of the transcription start site of RGC-32 gene. A polyomavirus enhancer activator (PEA3) binding site is adjacent to the SBE. Mutation at either SBE or PEA3 site significantly inhibited RGC-32 promoter activity. Mutations at both sites completely abolished TGF-β-induced promoter activity. Biochemically, TGF-β stimulated recruitment of Smad2, Smad4, and PEA3 to the RGC-32 promoter, as revealed by gel shift and chromatin immunoprecipitation analyses. Functionally, Smad2, but not Smad3, activated RGC-32 promoter. PEA3 appeared to enhance Smad2 activity. In agreement with their function, Smad2, but not Smad3, physically interacted with PEA3. In TGF-β-induced SMC differentiation of Monc-1 cells, knockdown of Smad2 by short hairpin RNA resulted in downregulation of RGC-32 and SMC marker genes. The downregulation of SMC markers, however, was rescued by exogenously introduced RGC-32. These results demonstrate that Smad2 regulation of RGC-32 transcription is essential for SMC differentiation from neural crest cells.
Lemur tyrosine kinase-2 signalling regulates kinesin-1 light chain-2 phosphorylation and binding of Smad2 cargo.	A recent genome-wide association study identified the gene encoding lemur tyrosine kinase-2 (LMTK2) as a susceptibility gene for prostate cancer. The identified genetic alteration is within intron 9, but the mechanisms by which LMTK2 may impact upon prostate cancer are not clear because the functions of LMTK2 are poorly understood. Here, we show that LMTK2 regulates a known pathway that controls phosphorylation of kinesin-1 light chain-2 (KLC2) by glycogen synthase kinase-3β (GSK3β). KLC2 phosphorylation by GSK3β induces the release of cargo from KLC2. LMTK2 signals via protein phosphatase-1C (PP1C) to increase inhibitory phosphorylation of GSK3β on serine-9 that reduces KLC2 phosphorylation and promotes binding of the known KLC2 cargo Smad2. Smad2 signals to the nucleus in response to transforming growth factor-β (TGFβ) receptor stimulation and transport of Smad2 by kinesin-1 is required for this signalling. We show that small interfering RNA loss of LMTK2 not only reduces binding of Smad2 to KLC2, but also inhibits TGFβ-induced Smad2 signalling. Thus, LMTK2 may regulate the activity of kinesin-1 motor function and Smad2 signalling.
Smad2/Smad3 in endothelium is indispensable for vascular stability via S1PR1 and N-cadherin expressions.	Transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) is involved in vascular formation through activin receptor-like kinase (ALK)1 and ALK5. ALK5, which is expressed ubiquitously, phosphorylates Smad2 and Smad3, whereas endothelial cell (EC)-specific ALK1 activates Smad1 and Smad5. Because ALK5 kinase activity is required for ALK1 to transduce TGF-β signaling via Smad1/5 in ECs, ALK5 knockout (KO) mice were not able to give us the precise mechanisms by which TGF-β/ALK5/Smad2/3 signaling is implicated in angiogenesis. To delineate the role of Smad2/3 signaling in endothelium, the Smad2 gene in Smad3 KO mice was selectively deleted in ECs using Tie2-Cre transgenic mice, termed EC-specific Smad2/3 double KO (EC-Smad2/3KO) mice. EC-Smad2/3KO embryos revealed hemorrhage leading to embryonic lethality around E12.5. EC-Smad2/3KO embryos exhibited no abnormality of vasculogenesis and angiogenesis in both the yolk sac and the whole embryo, whereas vascular maturation was incomplete because of inadequate assembly of mural cells in the vasculature. Wide gaps between ECs and mural cells could be observed in the vasculature of EC-Smad2/3KO mice because of reduced expression of N-cadherin and sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor-1 (S1PR1) in ECs from those mice. These results indicated that Smad2/3 signaling in ECs is indispensable for maintenance of vascular integrity via the fine-tuning of N-cadherin, VE-cadherin, and S1PR1 expressions in the vasculature.
A zebrafish model of intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma by dual expression of hepatitis B virus X and hepatitis C virus core protein in liver.	The mechanisms that mediate the initiation and development of intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) associated with hepatitis B and C virus (HBV and HCV, respectively) infection remain largely unclear. In this study we conditionally coexpressed hepatitis B virus X (HBx) and hepatitis C virus core (HCP) proteins in zebrafish livers, which caused fibrosis and consequently contributed to ICC formation at the age of 3 months. Suppressing the transgene expression by doxycycline (Dox) treatment resulted in the loss of ICC formation. The biomarker networks of zebrafish ICC identified by transcriptome sequencing and analysis were also frequently involved in the development of human neoplasms. The profiles of potential biomarker genes of zebrafish ICC were similar to those of human cholangiocarcinoma. Our data also showed that the pSmad3L oncogenic pathway was activated in HBx and HCP-induced ICC and included phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated proteinbase (MAPK) and p44/42 mitogen-activated protein kinase (ERK1/2), indicating the association with transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-β1) signaling pathway in ICC. Bile duct proliferation, fibrosis, and ICC were markedly reduced by knockdown of TGF-β1 by in vivo morpholinos injections.
Signal transduction pathway analysis in desmoid-type fibromatosis: transforming growth factor-β, COX2 and sex steroid receptors.	Despite reports of sex steroid receptor and COX2 expression in desmoid-type fibromatosis, responses to single agent therapy with anti-estrogens and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are unpredictable. Perhaps combination pharmacotherapy might be more effective in desmoid tumors that co-express these targets. Clearly, further understanding of the signaling pathways deregulated in desmoid tumors is essential for the development of targeted molecular therapy. Transforming growth factor-β (TGFβ) and bone morphogenetic proteins (BMP) are important regulators of fibroblast proliferation and matrix deposition, but little is known about the TGFβ superfamily in fibromatosis. A tissue microarray representing 27 desmoid tumors was constructed; 14 samples of healing scar and six samples of normal fibrous tissue were included for comparison. Expression of selected receptors and activated downstream transcription factors of TGFβ family signaling pathways, β-catenin, sex steroid hormone receptors and COX2 were assessed using immunohistochemistry; patterns of co-expression were explored via correlational statistical analyses. In addition to β-catenin, immunoreactivity for phosphorylated SMAD2/3 (indicative of active TGFβ signaling) and COX2 was significantly increased in desmoid tumors compared with healing scar and quiescent fibrous tissue. Low levels of phosphorylated SMAD1/5/8 were detected in only a minority of cases. Transforming growth factor-β receptor type 1 and androgen receptor were expressed in both desmoid tumors and scar, but not in fibrous tissue. Estrogen receptor-β was present in all cases studied. Transforming growth factor-β signaling appears to be activated in desmoid-type fibromatosis and phosphorylated SMAD2/3 and COX2 immunoreactivity might be of diagnostic utility in these tumors. Given the frequency of androgen receptor, estrogen receptor-β and COX2 co-expression in desmoid tumors, further assessment of the efficacy of combination pharmacotherapy using hormonal agonists/antagonists together with COX2 inhibitors should be considered.
Genetic susceptibility to chronic otitis media with effusion: candidate gene single nucleotide polymorphisms.	The genetic factors leading to a predisposition to otitis media are not well understood. The objective of the current study was to develop a tag-single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) panel to determine if there is an association between candidate gene polymorphisms and the development of chronic otitis media with effusion.
Effects of puerarin in STZ-induced diabetic rats by oxidative stress and the TGF-β1/Smad2 pathway.	The present study aimed to investigate the effects of pueraria on streptozotocine (STZ)-induced renal damage and its possible mechanisms. Wistar rats were randomly divided into five groups: the normal control group, diabetes untreated model group, two dosages (140 and 200 mg per kg bw per day) of puerarin treatment groups and a positive control group. Rats were studied 30 days after the STZ treatment, and the diabetes untreated model group presented significantly higher kidney index, blood glucose, triglyceride (TG), total cholesterol (TC), malondialdehyde (MDA), interferon-γ (IFN-γ), and IFN-γ/IL-4 levels, lower body weight, fasting blood insulin (FPI), IL-4, superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and nitric oxide (NO) levels and worse renal function (higher blood urea nitrogen (BUN), serum creatinine (SCr), urine protein (UP) levels and glomerular extracellular matrix (relative area)) compared with the normal control group (p < 0.05). Furthermore, RT-FQ-PCR and western blot analyses showed that TGF-β1, Smad2, CTGF and FN protein and mRNA expression was significantly increased in the diabetes untreated model group compared with the normal control group. In contrast, the puerarin treatment dose-dependently significantly decreased the kidney index, blood glucose, TG, TC, MDA, IFN-γ, and IFN-γ/IL-4 levels, increased the body weight, FPI, IL-4, SOD, CAT, GSH-Px and NO levels and improved the renal function (lower BUN, SCr, UP levels and glomerular extracellular matrix (relative area)) in puerarin treatment groups (p < 0.05). In addition, the mRNA and protein expression of TGF-β1, Smad2, CTGF and FN was downregulated. It can be concluded that puerarin exerted its anti-diabetic effect on the STZ-treated rats through the inhibition of the TGF-β1/Smad2 pathway. 
The expression of TGF-β1, Smad3, phospho-Smad3 and Smad7 is correlated with the development and invasion of nonfunctioning pituitary adenomas.	Transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) signaling functions as a suppressor or a promoter in tumor development, depending on the tumor stage and type. However, the role of TGF-β signaling in nonfunctioning pituitary adenomas (NFPAs) has not been explored.
