Antagonistic effects of bone morphogenetic protein-4 and -7 on renal mesangial cell proliferation induced by aldosterone through MAPK activation.	Aldosterone and angiotensin II (ANG II) contribute to the development and progression of renal damage. Here we investigated the effects of bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) on renal cell proliferation evoked by aldosterone and ANG II with mouse mesangial cells, which express mineralocorticoid receptors (MR), ANG II type 1 receptors, and BMP signaling molecules. Aldosterone and ANG II stimulated mesangial cell mitosis and activated ERK1/2 and SAPK/JNK signaling. These aldosterone effects were neutralized by the MR antagonist eplerenone and inhibition of transcription or translation, suggesting the involvement of genomic activation via MR. BMP-4 and BMP-7 stimulated Smad1, -5, -8 signaling more potently than BMP-2 and BMP-6, leading to suppression of mesangial cell mitosis and MR expression. MAPK inhibitors including U-0126 and SP-600125, but not SB-203580, suppressed aldosterone-induced cellular DNA synthesis, implying that ERK1/2 and SAPK/JNK pathways play crucial roles in mesangial cell proliferation. BMP-4 and BMP-7 inhibited phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and SAPK/JNK induced by aldosterone while activating p38 pathway, resulting in inhibition of aldosterone-induced cell mitosis. In contrast, aldosterone modulated the mesangial BMP system by decreasing expression of ALK-3, BMP-4, and BMP-7 while increasing inhibitory Smad6 expression. Thus novel functional cross talk between the mesangial BMP system and aldosterone signaling was uncovered, in which inhibition of MAPK signaling and MR expression by BMP-4 and BMP-7 may be involved in ameliorating renal damage due to mesangial proliferation caused by aldosterone.
Monocrotaline pyrrole induces Smad nuclear accumulation and altered signaling expression in human pulmonary arterial endothelial cells.	The mechanistic relationship between the widely used monocrotaline model of primary pulmonary hypertension and altered TGFbeta family signaling due to genetic defects in the Bone Morphogenetic Protein type II receptor in affected humans has not been investigated. In this study we use fluorescent microscopy to demonstrate nuclear translocation of Smad 4 in human pulmonary arterial endothelial cell (HPAEC) cultures treated with monocrotaline pyrrole (MCTP), Bone Morphogenetic Protein (BMP) and TGFbeta. While MCTP induced transient nuclear accumulation of phosphorylated Smad 1 (P-Smad 1) and phosphorylated Smad 2 (P-Smad 2), only expression of P-Smad 1 was significantly altered in western blots. P-Smad 1 expression significantly increased 30 min following treatment with MCTP correlating with P-Smad 1 and Smad 4 nuclear translocation. Although a modest, but significant decrease in P-Smad 1 expression occurred 1 h after treatment, expression was significantly increased at 72 h. Evaluation of components of the signal and response pathway at 72 h showed decreased expression of the BMP type II receptor (BMPrII), no change in TGFbeta Activin Receptor-like Kinase 1 (Alk 1), no change in Smad 4 but increase in the inhibitory Smad 6, decrease in the alternate BMP signaling pathway p38(MAPK) but no change in the psmad1 response element ID 1. Our results suggest transient activation of Smad signaling pathways in initial MCTP endothelial cell toxicity, and a persistent dysregulation of BMP signaling. Electron microscopy of cell membrane caveoli revealed a dramatic decrease in these structures after 72 h. Loss of these structural elements, noted for their sequestration and inhibition of receptor activity, may contribute to prolonged alterations in BMP signaling.
MSX2 stimulates chondrocyte maturation by controlling Ihh expression.	Several studies indicated that a homeobox gene, Msx2, is implicated in regulation of skeletal development by controlling enchondral ossification as well as membranous ossification. However, the molecular basis by which Msx2 conducts chondrogenesis is currently unclear. In this study, we examined the role of Msx2 in chondrocyte differentiation using mouse primary chondrocytes and embryonic metatarsal explants. Treatment with BMP2 up-regulated the expression of Msx2 mRNA along with chondrocyte differentiation in murine primary chondrocytes. Overexpression of wild-type Msx2 stimulated calcification of primary chondrocytes in the presence of BMP2. We also found that constitutively active Msx2 (caMsx2) enhanced BMP2-dependent calcification more efficiently than wild-type Msx2. Consistently, caMsx2 overexpression up-regulated the expression of alkaline phosphatase and collagen type X induced by BMP2. Furthermore, organ culture experiments using mouse embryonic metatarsals indicated that caMsx2 clearly stimulated the maturation of chondrocytes into the prehypertrophic and hypertrophic stages in the presence of BMP2. In contrast, knockdown of Msx2 inhibited maturation of primary chondrocytes. The stimulatory effect of Msx2 on chondrocyte maturation was enhanced by overexpression of Smad1 and Smad4 but inhibited by Smad6, an inhibitory Smad for BMP2 signaling. These data suggest that Msx2 requires BMP2/Smad signaling for its chondrogenic action. In addition, caMsx2 overexpression induced Ihh (Indian hedgehog) expression in mouse primary chondrocytes. Importantly, treatment with cyclopamine, a specific inhibitor for hedgehogs, blocked Msx2-induced chondrogenesis. Collectively, our results indicated that Msx2 promotes the maturation of chondrocytes, at least in part, through up-regulating Ihh expression.
BMP2 regulates Osterix through Msx2 and Runx2 during osteoblast differentiation.	Osterix/Sp7, a member of the Sp1 transcription factor family, plays an essential role in bone formation and osteoblastogenesis. Although Osterix has been shown to be induced by BMP2 in a mesenchymal cell line, the molecular basis of the regulation, expression and function of Osterix during osteoblast differentiation, is not fully understood. Thus we examined the role of BMP2 signaling in the regulation of Osterix using the mesenchymal cell lines C3H10T1/2 and C2C12. Osterix overexpression induced alkaline phosphatase activity and osteocalcin expression in C2C12 cells and stimulated calcification of murine primary osteoblasts. Considering that Runx2 overexpression induces Osterix, these results suggest that Osterix functions as downstream of Runx2. Surprisingly, BMP2 treatment induced Osterix expression and alkaline phosphatase activity in mesenchymal cells derived from Runx2-deficient mice. Furthermore, overexpression of Smad1 and Smad4 up-regulated Osterix expression, and an inhibitory Smad, Smad6, markedly suppressed BMP2-induced Osterix expression in the Runx2-deficient cells. Moreover, overexpression of a homeobox gene, Msx2, which is up-regulated by BMP2 and promotes osteoblastic differentiation, induced Osterix expression in the Runx2-deficient cells. Knockdown of Msx2 clearly inhibited induction of Osterix by BMP2 in the Runx2-deficient mesenchymal cells. Interestingly, microarray analyses using the Runx2-deficient cells revealed that the role of Osterix was distinct from that of Runx2. These findings suggest that Osterix is regulated via both Runx2-dependent and -independent mechanisms, and that Osterix controls osteoblast differentiation, at least in part, by regulating the expression of genes not controlled by Runx2.
Effects and mechanism of irbesartan on tubulointerstitial fibrosis in 5/6 nephrectomized rats.	Tubulointerstitial fibrosis (TIF) is a common pathological feature of end-stage kidney disease. Previous studies showed that upregulation of TGFbeta1 notably contributed to the chronic renal injury and irbesartan halted the development of TIF in rats with 5/6 renal mass reduction. This study was to investigate the effects of irbesartan on chronic TIF and the mechanism involved TGFbeta1 in the rodent model of chronic renal failure involving 5/6 nephrectomy. The results showed that irbesartan significantly attenuated the rise in blood pressure and tubulointerstitial injury observed in this model. Masson staining of the renal tissue revealed that there appeared severe renal tubule atrophy and fibrosis in operation group, but the lesion was attenuated mostly in irbesartan-treated group. Immunohistochemistry showed that irbesartan treatment apparently decreased the protein expression of TGFbeta1 which was up-regulated in operation groups. Western blot showed that irbesartan treatment down-regulated the expression of TGFbeta1, phosphorylated smad2 (p-smad2), AT1R and phosphorylated p38 (p-p38) MAPK, but significantly up-regulated the protein expression of smad6 as compared with operation group. These findings suggest that irbesartan attenuates hypertension and reduces the development of TIF in rats with 5/6 renal mass reduction via changes in the expression of these proteins at least including smad6, TGF-beta1, p-smad2, AT1 and p-p38 MAPK.
Tob2 inhibits peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ2 expression by sequestering Smads and C/EBPα during adipocyte differentiation.	Adipogenesis is an important component of adipose tissue development and is critically related to obesity. A cascade of transcription factors is involved in adipogenesis, in which peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) and CCAAT/enhancer-binding proteins (C/EBPs) play pivotal roles. Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) and Smad proteins are implicated in this cascade, although the precise regulatory mechanisms have yet to be elucidated. Here, we show that Tob2, a member of the Tob/BTG antiproliferative protein family, inhibits adipogenesis by interfering with Smad signaling. tob2 expression is downregulated in the white adipose tissue of high-fat diet-induced or genetically mutated obese mice. Consistent with this, tob2(-/-) mice exhibit increased adiposity with augmented expression of the genes encoding the type 1A BMP receptor (BMPR1A) and PPARγ2 as well as their target genes. We further show accelerated adipogenesis in primary tob2(-/-) preadipocytes. Furthermore, exogenously expressed Tob2 inhibits adipogenic differentiation of 3T3-L1 preadipocytes: the Tob2 protein suppresses PPARγ2 transcription by inhibiting BMP2-induced Smad1/5 phosphorylation through its interaction with Smad6 and by sequestering C/EBPα from the PPARγ2 promoter. Thus, Tob2 negatively regulates adipogenesis by inhibiting PPARγ2 expression.
Bone morphogenetic protein/SMAD signaling orients cell fate decision by impairing KSRP-dependent microRNA maturation.	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are essential regulators of development, physiology, and evolution, and their biogenesis is strictly controlled at multiple levels. Regulatory proteins, such as KSRP, modulate rates and timing of enzymatic reactions responsible for maturation of select miRNAs from their primary transcripts in response to specific stimuli. Here, we show that KSRP silencing in mesenchymal C2C12 cells produces a change in the transcriptome largely overlapping that induced by bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP2) signaling activation. This induces osteoblastic differentiation while preventing myogenic differentiation. KSRP silencing- and BMP2-dependent myogenic miRNA (myomiR) maturation blockade is required for osteoblastic differentiation of C2C12 cells. Our results demonstrate that phosphorylated R-SMAD proteins, the transducers of BMP2 signal, associate with phosphorylated KSRP and block its interaction with primary myomiRs. This abrogates KSRP-dependent myomiR maturation, with SMAD4, SMAD5, and SMAD9 silencing being able to rescue KSRP function. Thus, SMAD-induced blockade of KSRP-dependent myomiR maturation is critical for orienting C2C12 cell differentiation toward osteoblastic lineage.
