Distinct in vivo dynamics of vertebrate SUMO paralogues.	There are three mammalian SUMO paralogues: SUMO-1 is approximately 45% identical to SUMO-2 and SUMO-3, which are 96% identical to each other. It is currently unclear whether SUMO-1, -2, and -3 function in ways that are unique, redundant, or antagonistic. To address this question, we examined the dynamics of individual SUMO paralogues by using cell lines that stably express each of the mammalian SUMO proteins fused to the yellow fluorescent protein (YFP). Whereas SUMO-2 and -3 showed very similar distributions throughout the nucleoplasm, SUMO-1 was uniquely distributed to the nuclear envelope and to the nucleolus. Photobleaching experiments revealed that SUMO-1 dynamics was much slower than SUMO-2 and -3 dynamics. Additionally, the mobility of SUMO paralogues differed between subnuclear structures. Finally, the timing and distributions were dissimilar between paralogues as cells exited from mitosis. SUMO-1 was recruited to nuclear membrane as nuclear envelopes reformed in late anaphase, and accumulated rapidly into the nucleus. SUMO-2 and SUMO-3 localized to chromosome earlier and accumulated gradually during telophase. Together, these findings demonstrate that mammalian SUMO-1 shows patterns of utilization that are clearly discrete from the patterns of SUMO-2 and -3 throughout the cell cycle, arguing that it is functionally distinct and specifically regulated in vivo.
Protein partners of C/EBPepsilon.	CCAAT-enhancer binding protein-epsilon (C/EBPepsilon) is a nuclear transcription factor implicated in the regulation of terminal myeloid differentiation. Using a yeast two-hybrid screen, potential interaction partners of C/EBPepsilon involved in myeloid development were identified. C/EBPepsilon was found to associate with other C/EBP family members, including C/EBPepsilon and CHOP as well as other proteins that are known to contain a leucine-zipper protein interaction motif including CREB2, LDOC1, E6TP1, and AF-17. In addition, C/EBPepsilon demonstrated the potential for interaction with proteins that do not possess a leucine-zipper motif, including proteins that may be involved in sumoylation (protein inhibitor of activated STAT1 [PIAS1] and ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2I). As expected, the association of C/EBPepsilon with other C/EBP family members depends on the presence of a functional leucine-zipper motif. Mapping studies of C/EBPepsilon with PIAS1 (as an example of a nonleucine-zipper-containing protein) showed that C/EBPepsilon interacts with the amino-terminal domain of PIAS1. The function of C/EBPepsilon interacting proteins was further investigated. Co-expression of C/EBPepsilon with C/EBPdelta resulted in potent transactivation in a lactoferrin reporter system. A gel mobility shift assay suggests that C/EBPepsilon, C/EBPalpha, and C/EBPdelta proteins can bind as heterodimers to a C/EBP consensus DNA-binding site. As CHOP is known to represent a transcriptional repressor, the functional interaction between C/EBPepsilon and CHOP was investigated. Co-expression of C/EBPepsilon and c-Myb with CHOP caused marked transcriptional repression of target reporter genes. Our results suggest heterodimeric partners of C/EBPepsilon modulate the function of C/EBPepsilon in mediating gene transcription during myelopoiesis.
The protein stability and transcriptional activity of p63alpha are regulated by SUMO-1 conjugation.	Post-translational modification of proteins by the ubiquitin-like molecule SUMO-1 regulates their stability and activity with crucial implications for many cellular processes. Here we show that p63alpha, but not p63beta and gamma, is sumoylated in vitro and in vivo at a single lysine residue, K637, in the post-SAM domain. SUMO-1 attachment targets DeltaNp63alpha for proteasome mediated degradation while it does not influence p63alpha intracellular localization, as wild-type protein and a mutant carring the K637 mutated into arginine (K637R), have the same nuclear localization. Four natural p63 mutations, falling within the SAM and post-SAM domain of p63alpha, were found to be altered in their sumoylation capacity. The transcriptional activities of the natural mutants and of K637R were strongly increased compared to that of wild type p63, suggesting that sumoylation has a negative effect on p63 driven transcription. The findings that DeltaNp63alpha protein levels are regulated by SUMO-1 and that this regulation is altered in natural p63 mutants, suggest that SUMO conjugation to p63 plays a critical role in regulating the biological activity of p63.
No association of the codon 55 methionine to valine polymorphism in the SUMO4 gene with Graves' disease.	A functional polymorphism at codon 55 of the small ubiquitin-like modifier-4 (SUMO4) gene (methionine to valine; M55V) has recently been associated with type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1D). We aimed to establish whether this locus also contributes towards the genetic susceptibility to Graves' disease (GD) and autoimmune Addison's disease.
The jmjN and jmjC domains of the yeast zinc finger protein Gis1 interact with 19 proteins involved in transcription, sumoylation and DNA repair.	The jumonji domain is a highly conserved bipartite domain made up of two subdomains, jmjN and jmjC, which is found in many eukaryotic transcription factors. The jmjC domain was recently shown to possess the histone demethylase activity. Here we show that the jmjN and jmjC domains of the yeast zinc finger protein Gis1 interact in a two-hybrid system with 19 yeast proteins that include the RecQ helicase Sgs1, the silencing factors Esc1 and Sir4, the URI-type prefoldin Bud27 and the PIAS type SUMO ligase Nfi1/Siz2. Extensive interaction cross dependencies further suggest that the proteins form a larger complex. Consistent with this, 16 of the proteins also interact with a Bud27 two-hybrid bait, and three of them co-precipitate with TAP-tagged Gis1. The Gis1 jumonji domain can repress transcription when recruited to a promoter as a lexA fusion. This effect is dependent on both the jmjN and jmjC subdomains, as were all 19 two-hybrid interactions, indicating that the two subdomains form a single functional unit. The human Sgs1 homolog WRN also interacts with the Gis1 jumonji domain. Finally, we note that several jumonji domain interactors are related to proteins that are found in mammalian PML nuclear bodies.
Sumoylation dynamics during keratinocyte differentiation.	SUMO modification regulates the activity of numerous transcription factors that have a direct role in cell-cycle progression, apoptosis, cellular proliferation, and development, but its role in differentiation processes is less clear. Keratinocyte differentiation requires the coordinated activation of a series of transcription factors, and as several crucial keratinocyte transcription factors are known to be SUMO substrates, we investigated the role of sumoylation in keratinocyte differentiation. In a human keratinocyte cell line model (HaCaT cells), Ca2+-induced differentiation led to the transient and coordinated transcriptional activation of the genes encoding crucial sumoylation system components, including SAE1, SAE2, Ubc9, SENP1, Miz-1 (PIASx beta), SUMO2 and SUMO3. The increased gene expression resulted in higher levels of the respective proteins and changes in the pattern of sumoylated substrate proteins during the differentiation process. Similarly to the HaCaT results, stratified human foreskin keratinocytes showed an upregulation of Ubc9 in the suprabasal layers. Abrogation of sumoylation by Gam1 expression severely disrupted normal HaCaT differentiation, consistent with an important role for sumoylation in the proper progression of this biological process.
Regulation of nuclear receptor and coactivator functions by the carboxyl terminus of ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme 9.	Small ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO) is a protein moiety that is ligated to lysine residues in a variety of target proteins. The SUMO E2 enzyme ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme 9 (Ubc9) is sufficient for substrate recognition and lysine modification of known SUMO targets. Previous studies have demonstrated that mutated Ubc9 that has lost its SUMO-ligating activity retains its enhancement on transactivation mediated by androgen receptor (AR). In contrast to the binding ability to Ubc9, the sumoylation of AR via the association of SUMO-1 and PIAS1 is able to repress AR-dependent transcription. In the present study, we present several lines of evidence to explain the role of over-expressed Ubc9 as a cofactor in the nuclear receptor and coactivator functions, including (i) activity that is independent of its ability to catalyze SUMO-1 conjugation, (ii) an insight into the protein-protein interaction motif in its eight C-terminal residues, (iii) selective coactivator function in nuclear receptor-relevant transactivation activities, and (iv) a non-trichostatin A-sensitive autonomous transcription repression domain in its far C-terminal region. Taken together, our data suggest that the both the protein-protein interaction through the Ubc9 C-terminus and its sumoylation-modifying activity provide the mechanism for regulating nuclear receptor functions.
The SUMO protease SENP5 is required to maintain mitochondrial morphology and function.	Mitochondria are dynamic organelles that undergo regulated fission and fusion events that are essential to maintain metabolic stability. We previously demonstrated that the mitochondrial fission GTPase DRP1 is a substrate for SUMOylation. To further understand how SUMOylation impacts mitochondrial function, we searched for a SUMO protease that may affect mitochondrial dynamics. We demonstrate that the cytosolic pool of SENP5 catalyzes the cleavage of SUMO1 from a number of mitochondrial substrates. Overexpression of SENP5 rescues SUMO1-induced mitochondrial fragmentation that is partly due to the downregulation of DRP1. By contrast, silencing of SENP5 results in a fragmented and altered morphology. DRP1 was stably mono-SUMOylated in these cells, suggesting that SUMOylation leads to increased DRP1 mediated fission. In addition, the reduction of SENP5 levels resulted in a significant increase in the production of free radicals. Reformation of the mitochondrial tubules by expressing the dominant interfering DRP1 or by RNA silencing of endogenous DRP1 protein rescued both the morphological aberrations and the increased production of ROS induced by downregulation of SENP5. These data demonstrate the importance of SENP5 as a new regulator of SUMO1 proteolysis from mitochondrial targets, impacting mitochondrial morphology and metabolism.
No association of SUMO4 M55V with autoimmune diabetes in Asian-Indian patients.	Autoimmune diabetes [type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM), latent autoimmune diabetes in adults (LADA) and part of malnutrition-related diabetes] has been shown to have genetic predisposition. Studies in IDDM 5 have lead to the discovery of a novel polymorphism 163 A-->G, of SUMO4 (small ubiquitin-related modifier) gene, associated with risk to T1DM in Asians, but not in Caucasians. We studied patients with T1DM (n = 134), patients with LADA (n = 101), patients with malnutrition-modulated diabetes mellitus (n = 66) and patients with fibrocalculous pancreatic diabetes (n = 43) and healthy controls subjects (n = 114) from Cuttack, India. Polymerase chain reaction-sequence-specific primer (PCR-SSP) was used to amplify the 163 A-->G sequences. Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) was performed using restriction enzyme Taq I (PCR-RFLP). Differences in the allelic frequencies of the A and the G alleles were tested statistically using Fisher's exact test or chi-squared test wherever appropriate. P-values were considered significant when equal to or less than 0.05. No significant association was detected between SUMO4 M55V and T1DM susceptibility in Asian-Indians. Comparison of the A and G alleles with HLA DR3-DR4 did not result in any significant P-values. No significant association was found between SUMO4 M55V and LADA or malnutrition-related diabetes mellitus (MRDM). Our results show that Asian-Indians with T1DM are different from other Asian populations. Asian-Indians show more similarity to Caucasians with respect to the association of SUMO4 M55V variant in T1DM. Association studies on Asian-Indian patients with LADA and MRDM showed no significant difference in the presence of the A and the G alleles when compared to healthy controls.
HIPKs: Jack of all trades in basic nuclear activities.	Over the past decade several investigators have reported on the physical interaction of serine/threonine kinases of the homeodomain interacting-protein family (HIPKs) with increasing number of nuclear factors and on their localization in different nuclear sub-compartments. Although we are still far from a global understanding of the molecular consequences of HIPK subnuclear compartmentalization, the spatial description of particular interactions and posttranslational modifications promoted by these kinases on key cellular regulators might provide relevant insights. Here we will discuss the possible implications of the HIPK subnuclear localization in the regulation of gene transcription and in the cell response to stress.
Cooperation of sumoylated chromosomal proteins in rDNA maintenance.	SUMO is a posttranslational modifier that can modulate protein activities, interactions, and localizations. As the GFP-Smt3p fusion protein has a preference for subnucleolar localization, especially when deconjugation is impaired, the nucleolar role of SUMO can be the key to its biological functions. Using conditional triple SUMO E3 mutants, we show that defects in sumoylation impair rDNA maintenance, i.e., the rDNA segregation is defective and the rDNA copy number decreases in these mutants. Upon characterization of sumoylated proteins involved in rDNA maintenance, we established that Top1p and Top2p, which are sumoylated by Siz1p/Siz2p, most likely collaborate with substrates of Mms21p to maintain rDNA integrity. Cohesin and condensin subunits, which both play important roles in rDNA stability and structures, are potential substrates of Mms21, as their sumoylation depends on Mms21p, but not Siz1p and Siz2p. In addition, binding of cohesin and condensin to rDNA is altered in the mms21-CH E3-deficient mutant.
Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) encodes a SUMO E3 ligase that is SIM-dependent and SUMO-2/3-specific.	Sumoylation has emerged as a major post-translational modification of cellular proteins, affecting a variety of cellular processes. Viruses have exploited the sumoylation pathway to advance their own replication by evolving several ways to perturb the host sumoylation apparatus. However, there has been no report of virally encoded enzymes directly involved in catalyzing the sumoylation reaction. Here, we report that the K-bZIP protein encoded by Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) is a SUMO E3 ligase with specificity toward SUMO2/3. K-bZIP is a nuclear factor that functions to modulate viral gene expression and to prolong the G1 phase, allowing viral transcription and translation to proceed at the early stage of infection. In addition to functioning as a transcriptional factor, we show that K-bZIP carries a SIM (SUMO-interacting motif), which specifically binds to SUMO-2/3 but not SUMO-1. K-bZIP catalyzes its own SUMO modification as well as that of its interacting partners such as the cellular tumor suppressor proteins p53 and Rb, both in vitro and in vivo. This reaction depends on an intact SIM. Sumoylation of p53 leads to its activation and K-bZIP is recruited to several p53 target chromatin sites in a SIM-dependent manner. In addition to the identification of a viral SUMO-2/3 E3 ligase, our results provide additional insights into the mechanisms whereby K-bZIP induces cell cycle arrest.
The SUMO protease Verloren regulates dendrite and axon targeting in olfactory projection neurons.	Sumoylation is a post-translational modification regulating numerous biological processes. Small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) proteases are required for the maturation and deconjugation of SUMO proteins, thereby either promoting or reverting sumoylation to modify protein function. Here, we show a novel role for a predicted SUMO protease, Verloren (Velo), during projection neuron (PN) target selection in the Drosophila olfactory system. PNs target their dendrites to specific glomeruli within the antennal lobe (AL) and their axons stereotypically into higher brain centers. We uncovered mutations in velo that disrupt PN targeting specificity. PN dendrites that normally target to a particular dorsolateral glomerulus instead mistarget to incorrect glomeruli within the AL or to brain regions outside the AL. velo mutant axons also display defects in arborization. These phenotypes are rescued by postmitotic expression of Velo in PNs but not by a catalytic domain mutant of Velo. Two other SUMO proteases, DmUlp1 and CG12717, can partially compensate for the function of Velo in PN dendrite targeting. Additionally, mutations in SUMO and lesswright (which encodes a SUMO conjugating enzyme) similarly disrupt PN targeting, confirming that sumoylation is required for neuronal target selection. Finally, genetic interaction studies suggest that Velo acts in SUMO deconjugation rather than in maturation. Our study provides the first in vivo evidence for a specific role of a SUMO protease during neuronal target selection that can be dissociated from its functions in neuronal proliferation and survival.
Recombinant production of self-assembling β-structured peptides using SUMO as a fusion partner.	Self-assembling peptides that form nanostructured hydrogels are important biomaterials for tissue engineering scaffolds. The P₁₁-family of peptides includes, P₁₁-4 (QQRFEWEFEQQ) and the complementary peptides P₁₁-13 (EQEFEWEFEQE) and P₁₁-14 (QQOrnFOrnWOrnFOrnQQ). These form self-supporting hydrogels under physiological conditions (pH 7.4, 140 mM NaCl) either alone (P₁₁-4) or when mixed (P₁₁-13 and P₁₁-14). We report a SUMO-peptide expression strategy suitable for allowing release of native sequence peptide by SUMO protease cleavage.
The proteome response to amyloid protein expression in vivo.	Protein misfolding disorders such as Alzheimer, Parkinson and transthyretin amyloidosis are characterized by the formation of protein amyloid deposits. Although the nature and location of the aggregated proteins varies between different diseases, they all share similar molecular pathways of protein unfolding, aggregation and amyloid deposition. Most effects of these proteins are likely to occur at the proteome level, a virtually unexplored reality. To investigate the effects of an amyloid protein expression on the cellular proteome, we created a yeast expression system using human transthyretin (TTR) as a model amyloidogenic protein. We used Saccharomyces cerevisiae, a living test tube, to express native TTR (non-amyloidogenic) and the amyloidogenic TTR variant L55P, the later forming aggregates when expressed in yeast. Differential proteome changes were quantitatively analyzed by 2D-differential in gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE). We show that the expression of the amyloidogenic TTR-L55P causes a metabolic shift towards energy production, increased superoxide dismutase expression as well as of several molecular chaperones involved in protein refolding. Among these chaperones, members of the HSP70 family and the peptidyl-prolyl-cis-trans isomerase (PPIase) were identified. The latter is highly relevant considering that it was previously found to be a TTR interacting partner in the plasma of ATTR patients but not in healthy or asymptomatic subjects. The small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) expression is also increased. Our findings suggest that refolding and degradation pathways are activated, causing an increased demand of energetic resources, thus the metabolic shift. Additionally, oxidative stress appears to be a consequence of the amyloidogenic process, posing an enhanced threat to cell survival.
PIAS1 negatively modulates virus triggered type I IFN signaling by blocking the DNA binding activity of IRF3.	During viral infection, production of proinflammatory cytokines including type I interferons (IFNs) is under stringent control to avoid detrimental overreaction. The protein inhibitor of activated STAT (PIAS) family proteins have been recognized as anti-inflammatory molecules by restraining type I IFN induced amplifying signaling. Here we identified PIAS1 as an important negative regulator of virus-triggered type I IFN signaling. Overexpression of PIAS1 repressed virus-or RIG-I like receptor stimulated type I IFN transcription, whereas knockdown of PIAS1 expression augmented virus-induced production of type I IFNs. PIAS1 with a mutation in the SAP domain retained the inhibitory function in virus-induced IFN transcription, but abolished the inhibition in IFN-stimulated signaling. SUMO E3 ligase activity dead mutant PIAS1/C350S still had the comparable inhibitory function with WT PIAS1. Further study indicated that PIAS1 interacted with IRF3 and inhibited the DNA binding activity of IRF3. The C-terminal region of PIAS1 around a cluster of acidic amino acids is critical for the interaction with IRF3 and the inhibitory functions of PIAS1. Therefore, these results unveil PIAS1 functions both at the virus-induced early signaling stage and IFN stimulated amplifying stage with distinct mechanisms. PIAS1 is important in maintaining proper amounts of type I IFNs and restrains its magnitude when the antiviral response intensifies. 
Uncovering SUMOylation dynamics during cell-cycle progression reveals FoxM1 as a key mitotic SUMO target protein.	Loss of small ubiquitin-like modification (SUMOylation) in mice causes genomic instability due to the missegregation of chromosomes. Currently, little is known about the identity of relevant SUMO target proteins that are involved in this process and about global SUMOylation dynamics during cell-cycle progression. We performed a large-scale quantitative proteomics screen to address this and identified 593 proteins to be SUMO-2 modified, including the Forkhead box transcription factor M1 (FoxM1), a key regulator of cell-cycle progression and chromosome segregation. SUMOylation of FoxM1 peaks during G2 and M phase, when FoxM1 transcriptional activity is required. We found that a SUMOylation-deficient FoxM1 mutant was less active compared to wild-type FoxM1, implying that SUMOylation of the protein enhances its transcriptional activity. Mechanistically, SUMOylation blocks the dimerization of FoxM1, thereby relieving FoxM1 autorepression. Cells deficient for FoxM1 SUMOylation showed increased levels of polyploidy. Our findings contribute to understanding the role of SUMOylation during cell-cycle progression. 
Hepatitis C virus core protein activates autophagy through EIF2AK3 and ATF6 UPR pathway-mediated MAP1LC3B and ATG12 expression.	HCV infection induces autophagy, but how this occurs is unclear. Here, we report the induction of autophagy by the structural HCV core protein and subsequent endoplasmic reticular (ER) stress in Huh7 hepatoma cells. During ER stress, both the EIF2AK3 and ATF6 pathways of the unfolded protein response (UPR) were activated by HCV core protein. Then, these pathways upregulated transcription factors ATF4 and DDIT3. The ERN1-XBP1 pathway was not activated. Through ATF4 in the EIF2AK3 pathway, the autophagy gene ATG12 was upregulated. DDIT3 upregulated the transcription of autophagy gene MAP1LC3B (LC3B) by directly binding to the -253 to -99 base region of the LC3B promoter, contributing to the development of autophagy. Collectively, these data suggest not only a novel role for the HCV core protein in autophagy but also offer new insight into detailed molecular mechanisms with respect to HCV-induced autophagy, specifically how downstream UPR molecules regulate key autophagic gene expression.
SUMO chain-induced dimerization activates RNF4.	Dimeric RING E3 ligases interact with protein substrates and conformationally restrain the ubiquitin-E2-conjugating enzyme thioester complex such that it is primed for catalysis. RNF4 is an E3 ligase containing an N-terminal domain that binds its polySUMO substrates and a C-terminal RING domain responsible for dimerization. To investigate how RNF4 activity is controlled, we increased polySUMO substrate concentration by ablating expression of SUMO protease SENP6. Accumulation of SUMO chains in vivo leads to ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis of RNF4. In vitro we demonstrate that at concentrations equivalent to those found in vivo RNF4 is predominantly monomeric and inactive as an ubiquitin E3 ligase. However, in the presence of SUMO chains, RNF4 is activated by dimerization, leading to both substrate ubiquitylation and autoubiquitylation, responsible for degradation of RNF4. Thus the ubiquitin E3 ligase activity of RNF4 is directly linked to the availability of its polySUMO substrates. 
