Modification of GATA-2 transcriptional activity in endothelial cells by the SUMO E3 ligase PIASy.	GATA sequences are required for the optimal expression of endothelial cell-specific genes, including endothelin-1 (ET-1). We have identified PIASy in a search for new GATA-2 interacting proteins that can regulate GATA-2-mediated endothelial gene expression. Notably, among the cell populations comprising vascular walls, PIASy mRNA is selectively expressed in endothelial cells, and its expression can be regulated by angiogenic growth factors. We show that GATA-2 is covalently modified by small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO)-1 and -2 and that PIASy, through its E3 SUMO ligase activity, preferentially enhances the conjugation of SUMO-2 to GATA-2. Through a functional analysis, we demonstrate that PIASy potently suppresses the activity of the GATA-2-dependent human ET-1 promoter in endothelial cells. The suppressive effect of PIASy requires the GATA-binding site in the ET-1 promoter and depends on its interaction with GATA-2, which requires both N-terminal (amino acids 1-183) and C-terminal (amino acids 414-510) sequences in PIASy. We conclude that PIASy enhances the conjugation of SUMO-2 to GATA-2 and that the interaction of PIASy with GATA-2 can modulate GATA-mediated ET-1 transcription activity in endothelial cells through a RING-like domain-independent mechanism.
The SUMO pathway is required for selective degradation of DNA topoisomerase IIbeta induced by a catalytic inhibitor ICRF-193(1).	DNA topoisomerase I and II have been shown to be modified with a ubiquitin-like protein SUMO in response to their specific inhibitors called 'poisons'. These drugs also damage DNA by stabilizing the enzyme-DNA cleavable complex and induce a degradation of the enzymes through the 26S proteasome system. A plausible link between sumoylation and degradation has not yet been elucidated. We demonstrate here that topoisomerase IIbeta, but not its isoform IIalpha, is selectively degraded through proteasome by exposure to the catalytic inhibitor ICRF-193 which does not damage DNA. The beta isoform immunoprecipitated from ICRF-treated cells was modified by multiple modifiers, SUMO-2/3, SUMO-1, and polyubiquitin. When the SUMO conjugating enzyme Ubc9 was conditionally knocked out, the ICRF-induced degradation of topoisomerase IIbeta did not occur, suggesting that the SUMO modification pathway is essential for the degradation.
DNA cross-link repair protein SNM1A interacts with PIAS1 in nuclear focus formation.	The yeast SNM1/PSO2 gene specifically functions in DNA interstrand cross-link (ICL) repair, and its role has been suggested to be separate from other DNA repair pathways. In vertebrates, there are three homologs of SNM1 (SNM1A, SNM1B, and SNM1C/Artemis; SNM1 family proteins) whose functions are largely unknown. We disrupted each of the SNM1 family genes in the chicken B-cell line DT40. Both SNM1A- and SNM1B-deficient cells were sensitive to cisplatin but not to X-rays, whereas SNM1C/Artemis-deficient cells exhibited sensitivity to X-rays but not to cisplatin. SNM1A was nonepistatic with XRCC3 (homologous recombination), RAD18 (translesion synthesis), FANCC (Fanconi anemia), and SNM1B in ICL repair. SNM1A protein formed punctate nuclear foci depending on the conserved SNM1 (metallo-beta-lactamase) domain. PIAS1 was found to physically interact with SNM1A, and they colocalized at nuclear foci. Point mutations in the SNM1 domain, which disrupted the interaction with PIAS1, led to mislocalization of SNM1A in the nucleus and loss of complementation of snm1a cells. These results suggest that interaction between SNM1A and PIAS1 is required for ICL repair.
Multiple activities contribute to Pc2 E3 function.	Pc2 is a polycomb protein, which has SUMO E3 activity for the corepressors CtBP and CtBP2. Here we demonstrate that, in vivo, Pc2 adapter function contributes to enhancement of CtBP sumoylation. Mutation of the CtBP binding site on Pc2 abolishes E3 activity toward CtBP. However, a carboxyl-terminal fragment of Pc2 that recruits both Ubc9 and CtBP lacks E3 activity. We identify a second domain, which, when coexpressed with the carboxyl-terminal adapter region, restores E3 function. In vitro, this domain has E3 activity in isolation, suggesting that it is a functional domain, and that adapter function is required to selectively corecruit E2 and substrate in vivo. These results demonstrate the presence of two domains in Pc2 that contribute to full in vivo E3 activity, and suggest that SUMO E3s are more than simple platforms to which E2 and substrate bind.
SUMOylation of the polyglutamine repeat protein, ataxin-1, is dependent on a functional nuclear localization signal.	SUMO (small ubiquitin-like modifier) is a member of the ubiquitin family of proteins. SUMO targets include proteins involved in numerous roles including nuclear transport and transcriptional regulation. The previous finding that mutant ataxin-1[82Q] disrupted promyelocytic leukemia (PML) oncogenic domains prompted us to determine whether ataxin-1 disrupts another component of PML oncogenic domains, Sp100 (100-kDa Speckled protein). Similar to the PML protein, mutant ataxin-1[82Q] redistributed Sp100 to mutant ataxin-1[82Q] nuclear inclusions. Based on the ability of PML and Sp100 to be covalently modified by SUMO, we investigated the ability of ataxin-1 to be SUMOylated. SUMO-1 was found to covalently modify the polyglutamine repeat protein ataxin-1. There was a decrease in ataxin-1 SUMOylation in the presence of the expanded polyglutamine tract, ataxin-1[82Q]. The phospho-mutant, ataxin-1[82Q]-S776A, restored SUMO levels to those of wild-type ataxin-1[30Q]. SUMOylation of ataxin-1 was dependent on a functional nuclear localization signal. Ataxin-1 SUMOylation was mapped to at least five lysine residues. Lys(16), Lys(194) preceding the polyglutamine tract, Lys(610)/Lys(697) in the C-terminal ataxin high mobility group domain, and Lys(746) all contribute to ataxin-1 SUMOylation.
Differential interactions of the homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 2 (HIPK2) by phosphorylation-dependent sumoylation.	Homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 2 (HIPK2) interacts with and phosphorylates various transcription factors that are critical regulators of cell fate decisions and apoptosis during development. Here we show that lysine 25 of HIPK2 is the major sumoylation site, both in vitro and in vivo, and that the sumoylation of this site occurs in a phosphorylation-dependent manner. This became clear with the finding that kinase-dead HIPK2 (K221R) could not be efficiently sumoylated in vitro. The sumoylation of HIPK2 resulted in the disruption of its interaction with a Groucho corepressor. Consequently, sumoylation inhibited the regulatory activity of HIPK2 on the Groucho-mediated repression of transcription, whereas not on p53-mediated transactivation. These results suggest that phosphorylation-dependent sumoylation enables HIPK2 to drive different target gene transcription by means of differential interactions with its binding partners.
Sumoylation induced by the Arf tumor suppressor: a p53-independent function.	The mouse p19(Arf) protein has both p53-dependent and p53-independent tumor-suppressive activities. Arf triggers sumoylation of many cellular proteins, including Mdm2 and nucleophosmin (NPM/B23), with which p19(Arf) physically interacts in vivo, and this occurs equally well in cells expressing or lacking functional p53. In an Arf-null NIH 3T3 cell derivative (MT-Arf cells) engineered to reexpress an Arf transgene driven by a zinc-inducible metallothionein promoter, sumoylation of endogenous Mdm2 and NPM proteins was initiated as p19(Arf) was induced and was observed before p53-dependent cell cycle arrest. Predominately nucleoplasmic molecules visualized by immunofluorescence with antibodies to small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) 1 localized to nucleoli as p19(Arf) accumulated there. Two Arf mutants, one of which binds to Mdm2 and NPM but is excluded from nucleoli and the other of which enters nucleoli but is handicapped in binding to Mdm2 and NPM, were defective in inducing sumoylation of these two target proteins and did not localize bulk sumoylated molecules to nucleoli. The CELO adenovirus protein, Gam1, which inhibits the SUMO activating enzyme (E1) and leads to down-regulation of the SUMO conjugating enzyme (E2/Ubc9), had no overt effect on the ability of p19(Arf) to activate p53 or the p53-responsive genes encoding Mdm2 and p21(Cip1), despite the fact that Arf-induced sumoylation of Mdm2 was blocked. Reduction of Ubc9 levels with short hairpin RNAs rendered similar results. We suggest that Arf's p53-independent effects on gene expression and tumor suppression might depend on Arf-induced sumoylation.
The many faces of SAM.	Protein-protein interactions are essential for the assembly, regulation, and localization of functional protein complexes in the cell. SAM domains are among the most abundant protein-protein interaction motifs in organisms from yeast to humans. Although SAM domains adopt similar folds, they are remarkably versatile in their binding properties. Some identical SAM domains can interact with each other to form homodimers or polymers. In other cases, SAM domains can bind to other related SAM domains, to non-SAM domain-containing proteins, and even to RNA. Such versatility earns them functional roles in myriad biological processes, from signal transduction to transcriptional and translational regulation. In this review, we describe the structural basis of SAM domain interactions and highlight their roles in the scaffolding of protein complexes in normal and pathological processes.
Protein SUMOylation is massively increased in hibernation torpor and is critical for the cytoprotection provided by ischemic preconditioning and hypothermia in SHSY5Y cells.	Hibernation torpor provides an excellent natural model of tolerance to profound reductions in blood flow to the brain and other organs. Here, we report that during torpor of 13-lined ground squirrels, massive SUMOylation occurs in the brain, liver, and kidney. The level of small ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO) conjugation coincides with the expression level of Ubc9, the SUMO specific E2-conjugating enzyme. Hypothermia alone also increased SUMO conjugation, but not as markedly as hibernation torpor. Increased SUMO conjugation (induced by Ubc9 overexpression, ischemic preconditioning (PC)+/-hypothermia) was necessary and sufficient for tolerance of SHSY5Y neuroblastoma cells to oxygen/glucose deprivation (OGD) ('in vitro ischemia'); decreased SUMO conjugation (induced by a dominant-negative Ubc9) severely reduced tolerance to OGD in these cells. These data indicate that post-translational modification of proteins by SUMOylation is a prominent feature of hibernation torpor and is critical for cytoprotection by ischemic PC+/-hypothermia in SHSY5Y cells subjected to OGD.
Androgen receptor coregulators and their involvement in the development and progression of prostate cancer.	The androgen receptor signaling axis plays an essential role in the development, function and homeostasis of male urogenital structures including the prostate gland although the mechanism by which the AR axis contributes to the initiation, progression and metastatic spread of prostate cancer remains somewhat enigmatic. A number of molecular events have been proposed to act at the level of the AR and associated coregulators to influence the natural history of prostate cancer including deregulated expression, somatic mutation, and post-translational modification. The purpose of this article is to review the evidence for deregulated expression and function of the AR and associated coactivators and corepressors and how such events might contribute to the progression of prostate cancer by controlling the selection and expression of AR targets.
SUMOylation of Tr2 orphan receptor involves Pml and fine-tunes Oct4 expression in stem cells.	The Tr2 orphan nuclear receptor can be SUMOylated, resulting in the replacement of coregulators recruited to the regulatory region of its endogenous target gene, Oct4. UnSUMOylated Tr2 activates Oct4, enhancing embryonal carcinoma-cell proliferation, and is localized to the promyelocytic leukemia (Pml) nuclear bodies. When its abundance is elevated, Tr2 is SUMOylated at Lys238 and seems to be released from the nuclear bodies to act as a repressor. SUMOylation of Tr2 induces an exchange of its coregulators: corepressor Rip140 replaces coactivator Pcaf, which switches Tr2 from an activator to a repressor. This involves dynamic partitioning of Tr2 into Pml-containing and Pml-free pools. These results support a model where SUMOylation-dependent partitioning and differential coregulator recruitment contribute to the maintenance of a homeostatic supply of activating, as opposed to repressive, Tr2, thus fine-tuning Oct4 expression and regulating stem-cell proliferation.
TGF-beta suppresses IFN-gamma-STAT1-dependent gene transcription by enhancing STAT1-PIAS1 interactions in epithelia but not monocytes/macrophages.	IFN-gamma and TGF-beta are important regulators of mucosal immunity, typically functioning in opposition to each other. In this study, we assessed whether TGF-beta could modulate IFN-gamma-induced STAT1 signaling. Model epithelial cell lines (HEp-2, HT-29, and T84) or monocytes/macrophages (THP-1 cell line, human blood mononuclear cells) were pretreated with TGF-beta (1 ng/ml; 5-60 min), followed by IFN-gamma exposure (20 ng/ml; 30 min), and then STAT1 transcriptional activity, DNA-binding activity, phosphorylation, and methylation were assessed. Some epithelia were transfected with an expression plasmid encoding SMAD7 to block TGF-beta-SMAD signaling. Epithelia, but not macrophages, pretreated with TGF-beta were hyporesponsive to IFN-gamma stimulation as indicated by reduced expression of four STAT1-regulated genes and reduced STAT1 DNA binding on EMSA. However, STAT1 Tyr(701)-, Ser(727) phosphorylation, and nuclear recruitment of STAT1 were not significantly different in IFN-gamma with or without TGF-beta-treated cells, indicating that the effects of TGF-beta are downstream of IFN-gammaR-JAK-STAT1 interaction. The TGF-beta effect was not dependent on ERK1/2, p38, or JNK activation but was prevented by overexpression of the inhibitory SMAD7 protein. Additional studies suggest that TGF-beta blockade of IFN-gamma activity in epithelia is via enhanced sequestering of STAT1 by pre-existing protein inhibitor of activated STAT1. These results demonstrate that TGF-beta rapidly suppresses IFN-gamma-driven STAT1 signaling by reducing DNA binding via promotion of STAT1-protein inhibitor of activated STAT1 interactions and not inhibition of STAT1 activation; an event that may be specific to epithelia and represent a novel mode of action of TGF-beta.
Adjunct duties for karyopherins: regulating septin sumoylation.	Karyopherins are shuttling transport receptors regulated by the small GTPase Ran, which move cargo between the nucleus and cytoplasm by passing through the nuclear pore complexes. A recent paper in Journal of Cell Biology (Makhnevych et al., 2007) highlights an additional role for karyopherins during mitosis, in regulating the sumoylation status of the septin rings.
Analysis of protein sumoylation.	The covalent attachment of small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) proteins to specific lysine residues of target proteins, a process termed sumoylation, is a recently discovered protein modification that plays an important role in regulating many diverse cellular processes. For this reason there is significant interest in identifying new sumoylated proteins and the lysine residue(s) within these target proteins where SUMO attachment occurs. Such knowledge will allow determination of the functional consequences of sumoylation through mutation of the relevant sequences. This unit describes two different experimental approaches for ascertaining specific protein sumoylation: the first is based on immunoprecipitation of the protein of interest followed by SUMO immunoblotting. The second involves incubation of the protein (either an in vitro translation product or a purified recombinant protein) in a reconstituted in vitro sumoylation enzymatic reaction followed by visualization of sumoylated protein as a higher than normal molecular-weight band in SDS-PAGE.
Small ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO) binding determines substrate recognition and paralog-selective SUMO modification.	Small ubiquitin-related modifiers (SUMOs) regulate diverse cellular processes through their covalent attachment to target proteins. Vertebrates express three SUMO paralogs: SUMO-1, SUMO-2, and SUMO-3 (SUMO-2 and SUMO-3 are approximately 96% identical and referred to as SUMO-2/3). SUMO-1 and SUMO-2/3 are conjugated, at least in part, to unique subsets of proteins and thus regulate distinct cellular pathways. However, how different proteins are selectively modified by SUMO-1 and SUMO-2/3 is unknown. We demonstrate that BLM, the RecQ DNA helicase mutated in Bloom syndrome, is preferentially modified by SUMO-2/3 both in vitro and in vivo. Our findings indicate that non-covalent interactions between SUMO and BLM are required for modification at non-consensus sites and that preferential SUMO-2/3 modification is determined by preferential SUMO-2/3 binding. We also present evidence that sumoylation of a C-terminal fragment of HIPK2 is dependent on SUMO binding, indicating that non-covalent interactions between SUMO and target proteins provide a general mechanism for SUMO substrate selection and possible paralog-selective modification.
Active site remodelling accompanies thioester bond formation in the SUMO E1.	E1 enzymes activate ubiquitin (Ub) and ubiquitin-like (Ubl) proteins in two steps by carboxy-terminal adenylation and thioester bond formation to a conserved catalytic cysteine in the E1 Cys domain. The structural basis for these intermediates remains unknown. Here we report crystal structures for human SUMO E1 in complex with SUMO adenylate and tetrahedral intermediate analogues at 2.45 and 2.6 A, respectively. These structures show that side chain contacts to ATP.Mg are released after adenylation to facilitate a 130 degree rotation of the Cys domain during thioester bond formation that is accompanied by remodelling of key structural elements including the helix that contains the E1 catalytic cysteine, the crossover and re-entry loops, and refolding of two helices that are required for adenylation. These changes displace side chains required for adenylation with side chains required for thioester bond formation. Mutational and biochemical analyses indicate these mechanisms are conserved in other E1s.
Structural and functional analysis of tomosyn identifies domains important in exocytotic regulation.	Tomosyn is a 130-kDa cytosolic R-SNARE protein that associates with Q-SNAREs and reduces exocytotic activity. Two paralogous genes, tomosyn-1 and -2, occur in mammals and produce seven different isoforms via alternative splicing. Here, we map the structural differences between the yeast homologue of m-tomosyn-1, Sro7, and tomosyn genes/isoforms to identify domains critical to the regulation of exocytotic activity to tomosyn that are outside the soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive attachment receptor motif. Homology modeling of m-tomosyn-1 based on the known structure of yeast Sro7 revealed a highly conserved functional conformation but with tomosyn containing three additional loop domains that emanate from a β-propeller core. Notably, deletion of loops 1 and 3 eliminates tomosyn inhibitory activity on secretion without altering its soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive attachment receptor pairing with syntaxin1A. By comparison, deletion of loop 2, which contains the hypervariable splice region, did not reduce the ability of tomosyn to inhibit regulated secretion. However, exon variation within the hypervariable splice region resulted in significant differences in protein accumulation of tomosyn-2 isoforms. Functional analysis of s-tomosyn-1, m-tomosyn-1, m-tomosyn-2, and xb-tomosyn-2 demonstrated that they exert similar inhibitory effects on elevated K(+)-induced secretion in PC12 cells, although m-tomosyn-2 was novel in strongly augmenting basal secretion. Finally, we report that m-tomosyn-1 is a target substrate for SUMO 2/3 conjugation and that mutation of this small ubiquitin-related modifier target site (Lys-730) enhances m-tomosyn-1 inhibition of secretion without altering interaction with syntaxin1A. Together these results suggest that multiple domains outside the R-SNARE of tomosyn are critical to the efficacy of inhibition by tomosyn on exocytotic secretion.
Caveolin-3 undergoes SUMOylation by the SUMO E3 ligase PIASy: sumoylation affects G-protein-coupled receptor desensitization.	Caveolin (Cav) proteins in the plasma membrane have numerous binding partners, but the determinants of these interactions are poorly understood. We show here that Cav-3 has a small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) consensus motif (ΨKX(D/E, where Ψ is a hydrophobic residue)) near the scaffolding domain and that Cav-3 is SUMOylated in a manner that is enhanced by the SUMO E3 ligase PIASy (protein inhibitor of activated STAT-y). Site-directed mutagenesis revealed that the consensus site lysine is the preferred SUMOylation site but that mutation of all lysines is required to abolish SUMOylation. Co-expression of a SUMOylation-deficient mutant of Cav-3 with β-adrenergic receptors (βARs) alters the expression level of β(2)ARs but not β(1)ARs following agonist stimulation, thus implicating Cav-3 SUMOylation in the mechanisms for β(2)AR but not β(1)AR desensitization. Expression of endothelial nitric-oxide synthase (NOS3) was not altered by the SUMOylation-deficient mutant. Thus, SUMOylation is a covalent modification of caveolins that influence the regulation of certain signaling partners.
Regulation of REGγ cellular distribution and function by SUMO modification.	Discovery of emerging REGγ-regulated proteins has accentuated the REGγ-proteasome as an important pathway in multiple biological processes, including cell growth, cell cycle regulation, and apoptosis. However, little is known about the regulation of the REGγ-proteasome pathway. Here we demonstrate that REGγ can be SUMOylated in vitro and in vivo by SUMO-1, SUMO-2, and SUMO-3. The SUMO-E3 protein inhibitor of activated STAT (PIAS)1 physically associates with REGγ and promotes SUMOylation of REGγ. SUMOylation of REGγ was found to occur at multiple sites, including K6, K14, and K12. Mutation analysis indicated that these SUMO sites simultaneously contributed to the SUMOylation status of REGγ in cells. Posttranslational modification of REGγ by SUMO conjugation was revealed to mediate cytosolic translocation of REGγ and to cause increased stability of this proteasome activator. SUMOylation-deficient REGγ displayed attenuated ability to degrade p21(Waf//Cip1) due to reduced affinity of the REGγ SUMOylation-defective mutant for p21. Taken together, we report a previously unrecognized mechanism regulating the activity of the proteasome activator REGγ. This regulatory mechanism may enable REGγ to function as a more potent factor in protein degradation with a broader substrate spectrum.
Arabidopsis nitrate reductase activity is stimulated by the E3 SUMO ligase AtSIZ1.	Small ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO) is a small polypeptide that modulates protein activity and regulates hormone signalling, abiotic and biotic responses in plants. Here we show that AtSIZ regulates nitrogen assimilation in Arabidopsis through its E3 SUMO ligase function. Dwarf plants of siz1-2 flower early, show abnormal seed development and have high salicylic acid content and enhanced resistance to bacterial pathogens. These mutant phenotypes are reverted to wild-type phenotypes by exogenous ammonium but not by nitrate, phosphate or potassium. Decreased nitrate reductase activity in siz1-2 plants resulted in low nitrogen concentrations, low nitric oxide production and high nitrate content in comparison with wild-type plants. The nitrate reductases, NIA1 and NIA2, are sumoylated by AtSIZ1, which dramatically increases their activity. Both sumoylated and non-sumoylated NIA1 and NIA2 can form dimers. Our results indicate that AtSIZ1 positively controls nitrogen assimilation by promoting sumoylation of NRs in Arabidopsis.
Immunohistochemical analysis of Marinesco bodies, using antibodies against proteins implicated in the ubiquitin-proteasome system, autophagy and aggresome formation.	Marinesco bodies (MBs) are spherical eosinophilic intranuclear inclusions in pigmented neurons in the substantia nigra and locus ceruleus. Previous immunohistochemical studies have shown that MBs are positive for ubiquitin, p62 and SUMO-1, suggesting the involvement of ubiquitination and related proteins in the formation or disaggregation of MBs. However, the involvement is not thoroughly understood. Therefore, we immunohistochemically examined the midbrain from five control subjects ranged from 53 to 84 years old. MBs were positive for various proteins implicated in the ubiquitin-proteasome system (ubiquitin, p62, EDD1, NEDD8, NUB1, SUMO-1 and SUMO-2), aggresome formation (HDAC6) and autophagy (ubiquitin, p62, LC3, GABARAP and GATE-16). These findings suggest that proteins related to ubiquitination, proteasomal degradation and autophagy are involved in the formation or disaggregation of MBs.
Small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) modification mediates function of the inhibitory domains of developmental regulators FOXC1 and FOXC2.	FOXC1 and FOXC2 are forkhead transcription factors that play essential roles during development and physiology. Despite their critical role, the mechanisms that regulate the function of these factors remain poorly understood. We have identified conserved motifs within a previously defined N-terminal negative regulatory region of FOXC1/C2 that conforms to the definition of synergy control or SC motifs. Because such motifs inhibit the activity of transcription factors by serving as sites of post-translational modification by small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO), we have examined whether FOXC1/C2 are targets of SUMOylation and probed the functional significance of this modification. We find that endogenous FOXC1 forms modified by SUMO2/3 can be detected. Moreover, in cell culture, all three SUMO isoforms are readily conjugated to FOXC1 and FOXC2. The modification can be reconstituted in vitro with purified components and can be reversed in vitro by treatment with the SUMO protease SENP2. SUMOylation of FOXC1 and FOXC2 occurs primarily on one consensus synergy control motif with minor contributions of a second, more degenerate site. Notably, although FOXC1 is also phosphorylated at multiple sites, disruption of sites immediately downstream of the SC motifs does not influence SUMOylation. Consistent with a negative functional role, SUMOylation-deficient mutants displayed higher transcriptional activity when compared with wild type forms despite comparable protein levels and subcellular localization. Thus, the findings demonstrate that SC motifs mediate the inhibitory function of this region by serving as sites for SUMOylation and reveal a novel mechanism for acute and reversible regulation of FOXC1/C2 function.
Regulation of macroautophagy in ovarian cancer cells in vitro and in vivo by controlling glucose regulatory protein 78 and AMPK.	In this study we show that diindolylmethane (DIM) induces autophagy in ovarian cancer cells by regulating endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and AMPK. Treatment of SKOV-3, OVCAR-3 and TOV-21G ovarian cancer cells with varying concentrations of DIM for 24 hours resulted in a concentration dependent induction of autophagy as measured by flowcytometry. Electron microscopy confirmed the presence of autophagosomes in DIM treated cells. Western blot analysis showed that DIM treatment increased the expression of LC3B, a hall mark of autophagy as well as p62 and Atg 12 proteins that are accumulated during autophagy. Autophagy inhibitors bafilomycin or chloroquine inhibited DIM induced autophagy. Furthermore, DIM treatment significantly increased the expression of ER stress regulators such as Grp78, IRE1 and GADD153. Cycloheximide or ER stress inhibitor mithramycin not only blocked ER stress proteins that were activated by DIM but also autophagy. Silencing Grp78 or GADD 153 significantly blocked the expression of LC3B and p62 indicating that autophagy in our model is mediated by ER stress. Knocking out LC3B inhibited DIM induced autophagy. DIM treatment increased the cytosolic calcium levels which lead to the activation of AMPK in our model. Chelating cytosolic calcium with BAPT-AM abrogated not only the phosphorylation of AMPK but also prevented DIM induced autophagy. Inhibiting AMPK by a chemical inhibitor or siRNA blocked the induction of LC3B or p62, indicating that DIM mediated autophagy requires activation of AMPK. Oral administration of DIM significantly suppressed SKOV-3 tumor xenografts in nude mice. Activation of ER stress and autophagy were observed in the tumors of DIM treated mice. Taken together, these results suggest that induction of autophagy by DIM in ovarian cancer cells was associated with ER stress and AMPK activation.
Ubiquitin-related proteins in neuronal and glial intranuclear inclusions in intranuclear inclusion body disease.	Recent studies have shown that eosinophilic intranuclear inclusions (INI) in the brain of patients with intranuclear inclusion body disease (INIBD) are immunopositive for ubiquitin and ubiquitin-related proteins (URP). However, the extent and frequency of URP-immunoreactive inclusions in INIBD are uncertain. We immunohistochemically examined the brain, spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia from five patients with INIBD, using a virtual slide system with sequential staining of the same sections with hematoxylin and eosin and by immunolabeling with antibodies against ubiquitin and URP (NEDD8, NUB1, SUMO-1 and SUMO-2). Intranuclear inclusions were widely distributed in neurons and glial cells in all the cases. Sequential staining revealed that 100% of INI in neurons and glial cells were positive for ubiquitin. Moreover, the majority or a significant proportion of INI were positive for NEDD8, NUB1, SUMO-1 and SUMO-2. However, the proportions of NEDD8-, NUB1- and SUMO-1-positive inclusions were significantly higher in neurons than in glial cells (P < 0.05). These findings suggest that proteins related to ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation are involved in the formation of INI in INIBD.
SUMOhydro: a novel method for the prediction of sumoylation sites based on hydrophobic properties.	Sumoylation is one of the most essential mechanisms of reversible protein post-translational modifications and is a crucial biochemical process in the regulation of a variety of important biological functions. Sumoylation is also closely involved in various human diseases. The accurate computational identification of sumoylation sites in protein sequences aids in experimental design and mechanistic research in cellular biology. In this study, we introduced amino acid hydrophobicity as a parameter into a traditional binary encoding scheme and developed a novel sumoylation site prediction tool termed SUMOhydro. With the assistance of a support vector machine, the proposed method was trained and tested using a stringent non-redundant sumoylation dataset. In a leave-one-out cross-validation, the proposed method yielded an excellent performance with a correlation coefficient, specificity, sensitivity and accuracy equal to 0.690, 98.6%, 71.1% and 97.5%, respectively. In addition, SUMOhydro has been benchmarked against previously described predictors based on an independent dataset, thereby suggesting that the introduction of hydrophobicity as an additional parameter could assist in the prediction of sumoylation sites. Currently, SUMOhydro is freely accessible at http://protein.cau.edu.cn/others/SUMOhydro/.
SUMOylation of hnRNP-K is required for p53-mediated cell-cycle arrest in response to DNA damage.	Heterogeneous ribonucleoprotein-K (hnRNP-K) is normally ubiquitinated by HDM2 for proteasome-mediated degradation. Under DNA-damage conditions, hnRNP-K is transiently stabilized and serves as a transcriptional co-activator of p53 for cell-cycle arrest. However, how the stability and function of hnRNP-K is regulated remained unknown. Here, we demonstrated that UV-induced SUMOylation of hnRNP-K prevents its ubiquitination for stabilization. Using SUMOylation-defective mutant and purified SUMOylated hnRNP-K, SUMOylation was shown to reduce hnRNP-K's affinity to HDM2 with an increase in that to p53 for p21-mediated cell-cycle arrest. PIAS3 served as a small ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO) E3 ligase for hnRNP-K in an ATR-dependent manner. During later periods after UV exposure, however, SENP2 removed SUMO from hnRNP-K for its destabilization and in turn for release from cell-cycle arrest. Consistent with the rise-and-fall of both SUMOylation and stability of hnRNP-K, its ability to interact with PIAS3 was inversely correlated to that with SENP2 during the time course after UV exposure. These findings indicate that SUMO modification plays a crucial role in the control of hnRNP-K's function as a p53 co-activator in response to DNA damage by UV.
Dyskeratosis congenita mutations in dyskerin SUMOylation consensus sites lead to impaired telomerase RNA accumulation and telomere defects.	Mutations in the dyskerin gene (DKC1) cause X-linked dyskeratosis congenita (DC), a rare and fatal premature aging syndrome characterized by defective telomere maintenance. Dyskerin is a highly conserved nucleolar protein, and a component of the human telomerase complex that is essential for human telomerase RNA (hTR) stability. However, its regulation remains poorly understood. Here, we report that dyskerin can be modified by small ubiquitin-like modifiers (SUMOs). We find that human DC-causing mutations in highly conserved dyskerin SUMOylation consensus sites lead to impaired hTR accumulation, telomerase activity and telomere maintenance. Finally, we show that modification of dyskerin by SUMOylation is required for its stability. Our findings provide the first evidence that dyskerin stability is regulated by SUMOylation and that mutations altering dyskerin SUMOylation can lead to defects in telomere maintenance that are characteristics of DC. 
The transcriptional cofactor MCAF1/ATF7IP is involved in histone gene expression and cellular senescence.	Cellular senescence is post-mitotic or oncogene-induced events combined with nuclear remodeling. MCAF1 (also known as hAM or ATF7IP), a transcriptional cofactor that is overexpressed in various cancers, functions in gene activation or repression, depending on interacting partners. In this study, we found that MCAF1 localizes to PML nuclear bodies in human fibroblasts and non-cancerous cells. Interestingly, depletion of MCAF1 in fibroblasts induced premature senescence that was characterized by cell cycle arrest, SA-β-gal activity, and senescence-associated heterochromatic foci (SAHF) formation. Under this condition, core histones and the linker histone H1 significantly decreased at both mRNA and protein levels, resulting in reduced nucleosome formation. Consistently, in activated Ras-induced senescent fibroblasts, the accumulation of MCAF1 in PML bodies was enhanced via the binding of this protein to SUMO molecules, suggesting that sequestration of MCAF1 to PML bodies promotes cellular senescence. Collectively, these results reveal that MCAF1 is an essential regulator of cellular senescence. 
A type III ACC synthase, ACS7, is involved in root gravitropism in Arabidopsis thaliana.	Ethylene is an important plant hormone that regulates developmental processes in plants. The ethylene biosynthesis pathway is a highly regulated process at both the transcriptional and post-translational level. The transcriptional regulation of these ethylene biosynthesis genes is well known. However, post-translational modifications of the key ethylene biosynthesis enzyme 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) synthase (ACS) are little understood. In vitro kinase assays were conducted on the type III ACS, AtACS7, fusion protein and peptides to determine whether the AtACS7 protein can be phosphorylated by calcium-dependent protein kinase (CDPK). AtACS7 was phosphorylated at Ser216, Thr296, and Ser299 by AtCDPK16 in vitro. To investigate further the function of the ACS7 gene in Arabidopsis, an acs7-1 loss-of-function mutant was isolated. The acs7-1 mutant exhibited less sensitivity to the inhibition of root gravitropism by treatment with the calcium chelator ethylene glycol tetraacetic acid (EGTA). Seedlings were treated with gradient concentrations of ACC. The results showed that a certain concentration of ethylene enhanced the gravity response. Moreover, the acs7-1 mutant was less sensitive to inhibition of the gravity response by treatment with the auxin polar transport inhibitor 1-naphthylphthalamic acid, but exogenous ACC application recovered root gravitropism. Altogether, the results indicate that AtACS7 is involved in root gravitropism in a calcium-dependent manner in Arabidopsis.
Protein inhibitor of activated STAT 1 (PIAS1) is identified as the SUMO E3 ligase of CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein β (C/EBPβ) during adipogenesis.	It is well recognized that PIAS1, a SUMO (small ubiquitin-like modifier) E3 ligase, modulates such cellular processes as cell proliferation, DNA damage responses, and inflammation responses. Recent studies have shown that PIAS1 also plays a part in cell differentiation. However, the role of PIAS1 in adipocyte differentiation remains unknown. CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein β (C/EBPβ), a major regulator of adipogenesis, is a target of SUMOylation, but the E3 ligase responsible for the SUMOylation of C/EBPβ has not been identified. The present study showed that PIAS1 functions as a SUMO E3 ligase of C/EBPβ to regulate adipogenesis. PIAS1 expression was significantly and transiently induced on day 4 of 3T3-L1 adipocyte differentiation, when C/EBPβ began to decline. PIAS1 was found to interact with C/EBPβ through the SAP (scaffold attachment factor A/B/acinus/PIAS) domain and SUMOylate it, leading to increased ubiquitination and degradation of C/EBPβ. C/EBPβ became more stable when PIAS1 was silenced by RNA interference (RNAi). Moreover, adipogenesis was inhibited by overexpression of wild-type PIAS1 and promoted by knockdown of PIAS1. The mutational study indicated that the catalytic activity of SUMO E3 ligase was required for PIAS1 to restrain adipogenesis. Importantly, the inhibitory effect of PIAS1 overexpression on adipogenesis was rescued by overexpressed C/EBPβ. Thus, PIAS1 could play a dynamic role in adipogenesis by promoting the SUMOylation of C/EBPβ. 
Physical and genetic associations of the Irc20 ubiquitin ligase with Cdc48 and SUMO.	A considerable percentage of the genome is dedicated to the ubiquitin-proteasome system, with the yeast genome predicted to encode approximately 100 ubiquitin ligases (or E3s), and the human genome predicted to encode more than 600 E3s. The most abundant class of E3s consists of RING finger-containing proteins. Although many insights have been obtained regarding the structure and catalytic mechanism of the E3s, much remains to be learned about the function of the individual E3s. Here we characterize IRC20, which encodes a dual RING- and Snf/Swi family ATPase domain-containing protein in yeast that has been implicated in DNA repair. We found that overexpression of IRC20 causes two transcription-associated phenotypes and demonstrate that the Irc20 RING domain possesses ubiquitin E3 activity in vitro. Two mass spectrometry approaches were undertaken to identify Irc20-associated proteins. Wild-type Irc20 associated with Cdc48, a AAA-ATPase that serves as an intermediary in the ubiquitin-proteasome system. A second approach using a RING mutant derivative of Irc20 detected increased association of the Irc20 mutant with SUMO. These findings provide a foundation for understanding the roles of Irc20 in transcription and DNA repair. 
PIASγ expression in relation to clinicopathological, tumour factors and survival in indigenous black breast cancer women.	Indigenous black women with breast cancer (BC) show a high frequency of triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) comprising ER-, PR- and HER2- phenotypes and BRCA1 deficiency together with a high mortality rate, prompting speculation that risk factors could be genetic and the molecular portrait of these tumours may be different to those of Western women. Protein inhibitor of activated signal transducer (PIAS) γ implicated in the BRCA1 deficiency and triple negative BC was investigated to establish the relationship among the small ubiquitin-like modifier marker, pathological features, biomarkers expression and clinical outcome in the black women.
SUMOylation proteins in breast cancer.	Small Ubiquitin-like Modifier proteins (or SUMO) modify the function of protein substrates involved in various cellular processes including DNA damage response (DDR). It is becoming apparent that dysregulated SUMO contribute to carcinogenesis by affecting post-transcriptional modification of key proteins. It is hypothesised that SUMO contributes to the aggressive nature of breast cancer particularly those associated with features similar to breast carcinoma arising in patients with BRCA1 germline mutations. This study aims to assess the clinical and biological significance of three members of SUMO in a well-characterised annotated series of BC with emphasis on DDR. The study cohort comprised primary operable invasive BC including tumours from patients with known BRCA1 germline mutations. SUMO proteins PIAS1, PIAS4 and UBC9 were assessed using immunohistochemistry utilising tissue microarray technology. Additionally, their expression was assessed using reverse phase protein microarray utilising different cell lines. PIAS1 and UBC9 showed cytoplasmic and/or nuclear expression while PIAS4 was detected only in the nuclei. There was a correlation between subcellular localisation and expression of the nuclear transport protein KPNA2. Tumours showing positive nuclear/negative cytoplasmic expression of SUMO featured good prognostic characteristics including lower histologic grade and had a good outcome. Strong correlation with DDR-related proteins including BRCA1, Rad51, ATM, CHK1, DNA-PK and KU70/KU80 was observed. Correlation with ER and BRCA1 was confirmed using RPPA on cell lines. SUMO proteins seem to play important role in BC. Not only expression but also subcellular location is associated with BC phenotype. 
Oxidative stress-induced assembly of PML nuclear bodies controls sumoylation of partner proteins.	The promyelocytic leukemia (PML) protein organizes PML nuclear bodies (NBs), which are stress-responsive domains where many partner proteins accumulate. Here, we clarify the basis for NB formation and identify stress-induced partner sumoylation as the primary NB function. NB nucleation does not rely primarily on intermolecular interactions between the PML SUMO-interacting motif (SIM) and SUMO, but instead results from oxidation-mediated PML multimerization. Oxidized PML spherical meshes recruit UBC9, which enhances PML sumoylation, allow partner recruitment through SIM interactions, and ultimately enhance partner sumoylation. Intermolecular SUMO-SIM interactions then enforce partner sequestration within the NB inner core. Accordingly, oxidative stress enhances NB formation and global sumoylation in vivo. Some NB-associated sumoylated partners also become polyubiquitinated by RNF4, precipitating their proteasomal degradation. As several partners are protein-modifying enzymes, NBs could act as sensors that facilitate and confer oxidative stress sensitivity not only to sumoylation but also to other post-translational modifications, thereby explaining alterations of stress response upon PML or NB loss. 
Identification and analysis of endogenous SUMO1 and SUMO2/3 targets in mammalian cells and tissues using monoclonal antibodies.	SUMOylation is a protein modification that regulates the function of hundreds of proteins. Detecting endogenous SUMOylation is challenging: most small ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO) targets are low in abundance, and only a fraction of a protein's cellular pool is typically SUMOylated. Here we present a step-by-step protocol for the enrichment of endogenous SUMO targets from mammalian cells and tissues (specifically, mouse liver), based on the use of monoclonal antibodies that are available to the scientific community. The protocol comprises (i) production of antibodies and affinity matrix, (ii) denaturing cell lysis, and (iii) SUMO immunoprecipitation followed by peptide elution. Production of affinity matrix and cell lysis requires ∼1 d. The immunoprecipitation with peptide elution can be performed in 2 d. As SUMO proteins are conserved, this protocol should also be applicable to other organisms, including many vertebrates and Drosophila melanogaster. 
Sumoylation differentially regulates Sp1 to control cell differentiation.	The mammalian small ubiquitin-like modifiers (SUMOs) are actively involved in regulating differentiation of different cell types. However, the functional differences between SUMO isoforms and their mechanisms of action remain largely unknown. Using the ocular lens as a model system, we demonstrate that different SUMOs display distinct functions in regulating differentiation of epithelial cells into fiber cells. During lens differentiation, SUMO1 and SUMO2/3 displayed different expression, localization, and targets, suggesting differential functions. Indeed, overexpression of SUMO2/3, but not SUMO1, inhibited basic (b) FGF-induced cell differentiation. In contrast, knockdown of SUMO1, but not SUMO2/3, also inhibited bFGF action. Mechanistically, specificity protein 1 (Sp1), a major transcription factor that controls expression of lens-specific genes such as β-crystallins, was positively regulated by SUMO1 but negatively regulated by SUMO2. SUMO2 was found to inhibit Sp1 functions through several mechanisms: sumoylating it at K683 to attenuate DNA binding, and at K16 to increase its turnover. SUMO2 also interfered with the interaction between Sp1 and the coactivator, p300, and recruited a repressor, Sp3 to β-crystallin gene promoters, to negatively regulate their expression. Thus, stable SUMO1, but diminishing SUMO2/3, during lens development is necessary for normal lens differentiation. In support of this conclusion, SUMO1 and Sp1 formed complexes during early and later stages of lens development. In contrast, an interaction between SUMO2/3 and Sp1 was detected only during the initial lens vesicle stage. Together, our results establish distinct roles of different SUMO isoforms and demonstrate for the first time, to our knowledge, that Sp1 acts as a major transcription factor target for SUMO control of cell differentiation. 
