Intestinal absorption of cholesterol by patients with Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome.	The Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome (SLOS) is a disorder of impaired cholesterol biosynthesis because of a deficiency of the enzyme 7-dehydrocholesterol-Delta(7)-reductase, in the last step in cholesterol biosynthesis. Dietary cholesterol has been proposed as a potential therapy for SLOS and is being tested currently. Because there is no information on cholesterol absorption in SLOS, we recruited 12 SLOS patients into the General Clinical Research Center for 1-wk periods for administration of test meals and for blood and stool collections. A test breakfast that contained tracer cholesterol-4-C(14) with egg yolk or with crystalline cholesterol in suspension was given subsequently. Twenty-four and 48-h blood and 1-wk stool samples then were collected. The radioactivities in these samples were analyzed to determine the absorption of cholesterol by these patients. In 11 patients who were given egg yolk cholesterol, cholesterol absorption was 27.3 +/- 6.7%. The absorption was slightly less at 20.5 +/- 10.3% but not significantly different for the six patients who were given crystalline cholesterol. There was a positive correlation between the absorption of isotopic cholesterol as measured by determination of radioactive cholesterol in stool and the amount of isotopic cholesterol in the plasma at 24 and 48 h after the meal. Our data indicated that SLOS patients absorb cholesterol from the diet. However, the percentage of absorption is lower than reported values for normal adults and for hypercholesterolemic children. The absorption of crystalline cholesterol in suspension was slightly lower than the absorption of cholesterol in egg yolk cholesterol by these patients. The absorption of cholesterol may ameliorate some of the biochemical and developmental deficits in SLOS patients.
Loss of apolipoprotein E exacerbates the neonatal lethality of the Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome mouse.	The Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome (SLOS) is caused by a genetic defect in cholesterol biosynthesis; mutations in the enzyme 3ss-hydroxysterol Delta7 reductase (Dhcr7) lead to a failure of cholesterol (and desmosterol) synthesis, with an accumulation of precursor sterols, such as 7-dehydrocholesterol. Extensive genotype-phenotype analyses have indicated that there is considerable variation in the severity of the disease, much of which is not explained by defects in the Dhcr7 gene alone. Factors ranging from variations in maternal-fetal cholesterol transfer during pregnancy, to other genetic factors have been proposed to account for this variability. Variations at the APOE locus affect plasma cholesterol levels in humans and this polymorphic gene has been found to be associated with cardiovascular as well as neurological disorders. This locus has recently been implicated in accounting for some of the variations in SLOS. To address whether maternal hypercholesterolemia can affect fetal outcome, we tested the ability of maternal hypercholesterolemia to rescue the neonatal lethality in a mouse model of SLOS. Maternal hypercholesterolemia, induced by ApoE or Ldl-r deficiency not only failed to ameliorate the postnatal lethality, it increased the prenatal mortality of Dhcr7 deficient pups. Thus the murine data suggest that maternal loss of ApoE or Ldl-r function further exacerbates the neonatal lethality, suggesting they may play a role in maternal transfer of cholesterol to the embryo.
Major fetal abnormalities associated with positive screening tests for Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome (SLOS).	Determine the relationship between positive screening interpretations for Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome (SLOS) and other fetal abnormalities, to aid counseling and diagnostic activities.
Quantification of 7-dehydrocholesterol in plasma and amniotic fluid by liquid chromatography/particle beam-mass spectrometry as a biochemical diagnostic marker for the Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome.	The qualitative and quantitative determination of cholesterol and 7-dehydrocholesterol (7-DHC) in plasma as a biochemical diagnostic marker for the Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome by liquid chromatography/particle beam interface-mass spectrometry (LC/PB-MS) is presented. Baseline separation of cholesterol and 7-DHC is achieved on a silica column with hexane+ethanol (99: 1 v/v) as mobile phase within a 10 min analysis. Recoveries of cholesterol and 7-DHC in a simple two-phase extraction system are nearly 100%. The absolute limit of detection using LC/PB-MS is approximately 10 ng. The method presented allows extraction, analysis and quantification of cholesterol and 7-DHC within 15 min without the necessity of sample derivatization.
