Identification of trematode cercariae carrying Neorickettsia risticii in freshwater stream snails.	We provide evidence of Neorickettsia (Ehrlichia) risticii Holland, the agent of Potomac horse fever, in trematode larval stages found in aquatic snails and insects collected from a stream in Korea, using nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and sequence analysis of the 16S rRNA gene fragment amplified from several cercaria species. It was observed that of 423 (13.1%) of 3,219 snails infected with cercariae, 77 (20.8% of the 371) were infected with N. risticii. Five families of trematode cercariae, Schistosomatidae, Echimostomatidae, Heterophyidae, Microphallidae, and Acanthocopidae were identified morphologically within Semisulcospira libertina, Radix auricularia coreana, and S. gottschei snails. Echinostoma cinetorchis, E. hortense, and Metagonimus sp. were identified based on both the cercarial morphology as well as by phylogenetic analysis of the amplified 18S rRNA gene sequences. Adult aquatic insects were also collected from the same sites and were sorted into five species, Ischnura asiatica in Coenagrionidae and Calopteryx japonica, Sympetrum darwinianum, Symptrum eroticum, and Symptrum parvulum in Calopterygoidae. One thousand and two hundred eighty five metacercariae (classified into groups A through F) were isolated from 310 adult aquatic insects, and the average number of metacercariae per aquatic insect was 4.1. However, there was no amplification of N. risticii from these metacercariae.
Prevalence and sequence analyses of Neorickettsia risticii.	The presence of Neorickettsia (Ehrlichia) risticii DNA was confirmed by PCR amplification and sequence analysis from cercaria in snails collected from stream water in Chungcheong and Jeonra provinces. A total of 3,219 snails were tested for trematode cercariae and N. risticii infection. N. risticii 16S rRNA gene fragment was amplified in cercariae from Semisulcospira libertina and Radix auricularia coreana snails by nested PCR. More than four genus cercariae (Schistosomatidae, Microphallidae, Furcocercus, and Xiphidiocercaria) as well as unidentified cercariae were found from Semisulcospira libertina snails. Three species of cercariae (E. cinetorichis, E. hortense, and Fasciola sp.) were found from Radix auricularia coreana snails. The cercariae were present in 429 (13.3%) snails of 3,216 collected at the Chungcheong and Jeonra provinces. The prevalence of N. risticii in these 429 cercariae was 17.9% (77 of 429 cercariae-infected snails). The amplicons of N. risticii 16S rRNA gene fragment (527 bp) from cercariae DNA had two genotypes (NR-JA1 and NR-JA2) with an identity of 96.4% between their nucleotide sequences. However, when compared to the sequence of N. risticii Shasta strain these sequences showed a 94.3% and 96.4% homology, respectively. The comparison of N. risticii 51 kDa major antigen gene sequences (572 bp) from NR-JA1 and NR-JA2 were 100% identical to the sequence of the isolates from Juga sp., Caddisfly larvae, Shasta, Juga yrekaensis, and trematode of California. This study reports for the first time the detection of N. risticii from cercariae found in Radix auricularia coreana snail. These data also indicate that N. risticii could be widespread in Korea.
Isolation and characterization of cultivable fermentative bacteria from the intestine of two edible snails, Helixpomatia and Cornu aspersum (Gastropoda: Pulmonata).	The intestinal microbiota of the edible snails Cornu aspersum fSyn: H. aspersa), and Helix pomatia were investigated by culture-based methods, 16S rRNA sequence analyses and phenotypic characterisations. The study was carried out on aestivating snails and two populations of H. pomatia were considered. The cultivable bacteria dominated in the distal part of the intestine, with up to 5.10(9) CFU g -1, but the Swedish H. pomatia appeared significantly less colonised, suggesting a higher sensitivity of its microbiota to climatic change. All the strains, but one, shared >/= 97% sequence identity with reference strains. They were arranged into two taxa: the Gamma Proteobacteria with Buttiauxella, Citrobacter, Enterobacter, Kluyvera, Obesumbacterium, Raoultella and the Firmicutes with Enterococcus, Lactococcus, and Clostridium. According to the literature, these genera are mostly assigned to enteric environments or to phyllosphere, data in favour of culturing snails in contact with soil and plants. None of the strains were able to digest filter paper, Avicel cellulose or carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC). Acetogens and methanogenic archaea were not cultivated, so the fate of hydrogen remains questionable. This microbiota could play important roles in the digestive process (fermentation) and the energy supply of the snail (L-lactate, acetate). The choice of cereals and plants by snail farmers should take into account the fermentative abilities of the intestinal microbiota.
Toxicity screening and identification of bacteria isolated from snails Nassarius semiplicatus and their habitat]	Tetrodotoxin and its analogues (TTXs) were responsible for the poisoning incidents associated with snail Nassarius spp. We studied bacteria isolated from toxic snails as well as their habitat to probe into the relationship between bacteria and toxicity of nassariid gastropod.
Microflora and tetrodotoxin-producing bacteria in a gastropod, Niotha clathrata.	Shellfish (Niotha clathrata) were collected in both July and November from three locations in Taiwan (Pingtung, Kaohsiung and Chiai Prefecture) and assayed for anatomical distribution of tetrodotoxin (TTX) and aerobic heterotrophic bacteria. Pingtung specimens showed higher toxicity than those from Kaohsiung and Chiai, and did not show much seasonal variation. At each site, the total aerobic bacterial counts in November samples were higher than in July. The predominant genera were Vibrio, Pseudomonas, Pasteurella, Aeromonas and Plesiomonas. Vibrio comprised more than 35% of the genera, with V. alginolyticus as the major species. The viable counts of Vibrio species were higher in November than in July. However, the results did not suggest any relationship between the total count or viable count and the toxicity of the shellfish. HPLC, UV and gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric analyses demonstrated that some of the bacteria isolated, such as V. alginolyticus, V. parahaemolyticus, Pseudomonas spp. Plesiomonas sp. and Aeromonas sp., produced TTX and/or related substances.
