Effects of trapping and subsequent short-term confinement stress on plasma corticosterone in the brown treesnake (Boiga irregularis) on Guam.	The effects of capture in a live trap and subsequent handling stress on plasma concentrations of corticosterone and other sex steroids were examined in wild male and female brown treesnakes (Boiga irregularis), an introduced species on Guam that has been implicated in the extirpation or decline of many of that island's vertebrate species. Males and females that spent 1 night in a trap had plasma levels of corticosterone about four and two times higher, respectively, than those of the respective free-ranging controls. Mean plasma levels of corticosterone of snakes that had spent 3 nights in a trap were intermediate between, but not significantly different from, those of snakes that had spent 1 night in a trap and free-ranging snakes, suggesting that some acclimation to capture occurred during this period. Snakes that were taken from traps and held in collecting bags for 10 min and 2 h prior to blood sampling had levels of corticosterone about two and three times higher, respectively, than those of control snakes that were taken from traps and bled immediately. Concentrations of plasma corticosterone in free-ranging females were about two times higher than those of males but were well within the range of basal levels observed in other reptiles. Few snakes of potential reproductive size were reproductive (males: 1 of 35; females: 2 of 33), and plasma concentrations of testosterone and progesterone in nonreproductive males and females, respectively, were accordingly low. The possible relationship between corticosterone and these sex steroids, therefore, could not be adequately assessed, although there was a positive relationship between plasma progesterone and corticosterone in the nonreproductive females. Nonetheless, as a prerequisite for studies on the seasonal hormonal cycles of this species on Guam, our observations raise the possibility that the stress caused by trapping could affect the levels of other sex steroids and that, therefore, such studies should use free-ranging individuals.
Validation of the doubly labeled water method under low and high humidity to estimate metabolic rate and water flux in a tropical snake (Boiga irregularis).	This study uses indirect calorimetry to assess the effects of humidity on the accuracy of the doubly labeled water (DLW) technique to predict metabolic rate and water flux in brown treesnakes (Boiga irregularis). The DLW technique accurately predicted total water efflux in brown treesnakes under low-humidity conditions and found that the total number of water molecules exchanged with the environment under humid conditions was not significantly different than maximum net total evaporative water loss under low humidity conditions plus fecal water loss. Because of changes of total body water of >12%, the DLW technique overestimated metabolic rate by a factor of 2.2 under low-humidity conditions. Under high-humidity conditions, the DLW technique overestimated metabolic rate in brown treesnakes by a factor of 4.6. Researchers using the DLW technique in humid or moist environments should be cautious because this study indicates that DLW estimates of metabolic rate may be inflated when large amounts of water vapor are exchanged through the skin or respiratory passages.
Comparison of carbohydrate moieties of sparganum proteins of the snake, mouse and those of adult worm.	The carbohydrate moieties of larval sparganum proteins in two different species, the snakes, Elaphe rufodorsata, the Balb/c mouse and those of the adult worm, Spirometra erinacei, were compared using five different lectins including GNA, SNA, MAA, PNA and DSA. The GNA positive 53 kDa molecule, which is excretory-secretory protease in the sparganum from the snake showed a stage specific and developmental regulation. We also suggested that sparganum glycosylation may be involved in immune evasion and differentiation into an adult worm.
Functional relationships among selenium concentrations in the diet, target tissues, and nondestructive tissue samples of two species of snakes.	Nondestructive sampling methods, such as removal of feathers for contaminant analysis, are desirable in ecological monitoring programs that seek to minimize the impacts of harvesting organisms. Although many reptiles are declining worldwide, nondestructive sampling techniques seldom have been employed for assessing contaminant exposure in these organisms. In this study, we examined the utility of nondestructive tissue sampling for assessing Se exposure in reptiles. We describe the functional relationships among dietary Se concentrations, target tissue Se concentrations, and Se concentrations in nondestructive tissue samples (blood and tail tissue biopsy) in two species of snakes that had been exposed to Se under very different experimental protocols. Using nonlinear regression, we found strong positive correlations (r2 > 0.92) in all comparisons among Se concentrations in nondestructive tissues, diet, and target tissues. Moreover, equations describing these relationships can be used to estimate concentrations of Se in diet and target organs, from known concentrations of Se in nondestructive tissue samples. Although the current paucity of toxicity data on reptiles precludes tests of our models, we demonstrate how the equations describing these relationships might be used to make predictions about Se accumulation in target organs for risk assessment. Future studies on reptiles that examine these relationships under different Se exposure conditions, and those that document physiological responses of reptiles to various concentrations of Se, will help to refine our models and test their efficacy for predicting health risk.
Structures of two elapid snake venom metalloproteases with distinct activities highlight the disulfide patterns in the D domain of ADAMalysin family proteins.	The structures of snake venom metalloproteases (SVMPs) are proposed to be useful models to understand the structural and functional relationship of ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloprotease) which are membrane-anchored proteins involved in multiple human diseases. We have purified, sequenced and determined the structures of two new P-III SVMPs - atragin and kaouthiagin-like (K-like) from Naja atra. Atragin exhibits a known C-shaped topology, whereas K-like adopts an I-shaped conformation because of the distinct disulfide pattern in the disintegrin-like (D) domain. K-like exhibits an enzymatic specificity toward pro-TNFalpha with less inhibition of cell migration, but atragin shows the opposite effect. The specificity of the enzymatic activity is indicated to be dominated mainly by the local structures of SVMP in the metalloprotease (M) domain, whereas the hyper-variable region (HVR) in the cysteine-rich (C) domain is involved in a cell-migration activity. We demonstrate also a pH-dependent enzymatic activity of atragin that we correlate with the structural dynamics of a Zn(2+)-binding motif and the Met-turn based on the structures determined with a pH-jump method. The structural variations between the C- and I-shapes highlight the disulfide bond patterns in the D domain of the ADAM/adamalysin/reprolysins family proteins.
A new dosing schedule for gentamicin in blood pythons (Python curtus): a pharmacokinetic study.	Gentamicin is frequently used in the treatment of aerobic Gram-negative infections in reptiles. Pharmacokinetic data to ensure proper dosing are scant, especially for large snakes. A pharmacokinetic study of gentamicin was therefore conducted in four blood pythons. Snakes were given intramuscular injections of either 2.5 mg kg-1 or 3.0 mg kg-1 loading dose followed by 1.5 mg kg-1 at 72 and 96 hours. A linear pharmacokinetic relationship between gentamicin serum concentrations and time was demonstrated in each of the four snakes studied. Peak serum concentrations occurred six to 10 hours after injection and ranged from 4.6 to 8.9 micrograms ml-1. Half-life was variable and ranged from 32 to 110 hours. Total body clearance and apparent volume of distribution varied little between the individual snakes studied. There was no evidence of renal toxicity. For blood pythons a loading dose of 2.5 mg kg-1 followed by 1.5 mg kg-1 at 96 hour intervals is recommended. If higher concentrations are desired, a loading dose of 3.0 mg kg-1 followed by 1.5 mg kg-1 at 96 hours can be given. These dosing schedules will provide serum concentrations in excess of the minimum inhibitory concentrations for most aerobic Gram-negative bacilli that are pathogenic in snakes; gentamicin accumulation with subsequent renal dysfunction should not occur.
Characteristics of renal transport of taurine in reptilian brush-border membranes.	We examined characteristics of taurine transport across renal brush-border membranes (BBM) of the garter snake (Thamnophis sirtalis), a species that demonstrates both net reabsorption and secretion of taurine in vivo. Transport was examined by a rapid filtration technique at 25 degrees C. Inwardly directed Na+ gradient specifically stimulated taurine uptake. Under initial taurine equilibrium condition, a small overshoot of taurine uptake driven by an inwardly directed NaCl gradient could be observed. No stimulation of taurine uptake was observed under Na+ equilibrium or K+, Li+, or choline gradients conditions. Reptilian renal BBM taurine transport also displayed specific Cl- requirement: replacement of NaCl by NaSCN or Na(+)-gluconate gradients inhibited taurine uptake. The uptake was stimulated under Cl- gradient compared with Cl- equilibrium conditions. Taurine transport was not stimulated by H+ gradient in either direction, although it was inhibited by acidic pH (less than 7.0). Amiloride and furosemide had no effects. The transport was electrogenic, stimulated by an inside negative membrane potential, and inhibited by other beta-amino acids. Overall, the reptilian BBM transport system for taurine resembles those observed in both mammalian and fish renal BBM.
Microemulsion-based oxyresveratrol for topical treatment of herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection: physicochemical properties and efficacy in cutaneous HSV-1 infection in mice.	The physicochemical properties of the optimized microemulsion and the permeating ability of oxyresveratrol in microemulsion were evaluated, and the efficacy of oxyresveratrol microemulsion in cutaneous herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) infection in mice was examined. The optimized microemulsion was composed of 10% w/w of isopropyl myristate, 35% w/w of Tween 80, 35% w/w of isopropyl alcohol, and 20% w/w of water. The mean particle diameter was 9.67 ± 0.58 nm, and the solubility of oxyresveratrol in the microemulsion was 196.34 ± 0.80 mg/ml. After accelerated and long-term stability testing, the microemulsion base and oxyresveratrol-loaded microemulsion were stable. The cumulative amount of oxyresveratrol permeating through shed snake skin from microemulsion at 6 h was 93.04 times compared to that of oxyresveratrol from Vaseline, determined at 20% w/w concentration. In cutaneous HSV-1 infection in mice, oxyresveratrol microemulsion at 20%, 25%, and 30% w/w, topically applied five times daily for 7 days after infection, was significantly effective in delaying the development of skin lesions and protecting from death (p < 0.05) compared with the untreated control. Oxyresveratrol microemulsion at 25% and 30% w/w was significantly more effective than that of 30% w/w of oxyresveratrol in Vaseline (p < 0.05) and was as effective as 5% w/w of acyclovir cream, topically applied five times daily (p > 0.05). These results demonstrated that topical oxyresveratrol microemulsion at 20-30% w/w was suitable for cutaneous HSV-1 mouse infection.
Immunofluorescent localization of the Ca2+-dependent proteinase and its inhibitor in tissues of Crotalus atrox.	The native 108,000 dalton Ca2+-dependent proteinase (CDP) and its 115,000 dalton protein inhibitor (CDPI) were purified from bovine skeletal muscle using native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and were used to elicit antibody production in rabbits and BALB/c mice. Polyclonal antibodies were purified as IgG fractions by column chromatography; monoclonal antibodies were produced by the hybridoma technique. Indirect immunofluorescence localization of CDP and CDPI in tissues of Crotalus atrox show both proteins to be ubiquitous. Both occur in the cytoplasm and are absent from the cell membrane and the nucleus; CDPI is also present in the I-band of skeletal muscle.
Biochemical comparison of lens crystallins from three reptilian species.	Lens crystallins were isolated from the homogenates of reptilian eye lenses derived from three different species by gel-permeation chromatography and characterized by gel electrophoresis, amino-acid analysis, N-terminal sequence analysis and circular dichroism. Four fractions corresponding to alpha-, delta/epsilon/beta-, beta- and gamma-crystallins were obtained for the crystallins from caiman lenses, whereas delta- and gamma-crystallin fraction were present in lesser amounts or missing in the turtle and snake lenses, respectively. The native molecular masses for these purified fractions and their polypeptide compositions were determined by gel filtration and SDS-gel electrophoresis, respectively, revealing the typical subunit compositions for each classified crystallin. The spectra of circular dichroism indicate a predominant beta-sheet structure in alpha-, beta- and gamma-crystallins, and a major contribution of alpha-helical structure in delta/epsilon-crystallin fraction, which bears a resemblance to the secondary structure of delta-crystallin from the chicken lenses. Comparison of the amino-acid contents of each orthologous class of reptilian crystallins with those of evolutionary distant species still exhibited similarity in their amino-acid compositions. N-terminal sequence analysis of the crystallin fractions revealed that all fractions except that of gamma-crystallin are N-terminally blocked. Extensive sequence similarity between the reptilian gamma-crystallin polypeptides and those from other vertebrate species were found, which establish the close relatedness of gamma-crystallins amongst the major classes of vertebrates.
Distribution of dopamine immunoreactivity in the forebrain and midbrain of the snake Python regius: a study with antibodies against dopamine.	The distribution of dopamine (DA) immunoreactivity in the forebrain and midbrain of the ball python, Python regius, was studied by using recently developed antibodies against DA. In order to determine general and species-specific features of the DA system in reptiles, we have selected the ball python as a representative of a reptilian radiation that hitherto has not been the subject of (immuno)histochemical studies. Dopamine-containing cell bodies were found around the glomeruli and in the external plexiform layer of both the main and accessory olfactory bulb, but not in the telencephalon proper. In the diencephalon, DA cells were observed in several parts of the periventricular hypothalamic nucleus, in the periventricular organ, the ependymal wall of the infundibular recess, the lateral hypothalamic area, the magnocellular ventrolateral thalamic nucleus, and the pretectal posterodorsal nucleus. In the midbrain, DA cells were found in the ventral tegmental area, the substantia nigra, and the presumed reptilian homologue of the mammalian A8 cell group. Dopaminergic fibers and varicosities were observed throughout the whole brain, particularly in the telencephalon and diencephalon. The nucleus accumbens, striatum, olfactory tubercle, and nucleus of the accessory olfactory tract appear to have the most dense innervation, but the lateral septal nucleus, the dorsal ventricular ridge, and the nucleus sphericus also show numerous DA-containing fibers and varicosities. Except for the lateral cortex, cortical areas are not densely innervated by DA fibers. The DA system of the snake Python regius shares many features with that of lizards and turtles as determined with the same antibodies. The taxonomically close relationship between lizards and snakes, which together constitute the Squamata, is reflected in a similar distribution of DA fibers and varicosities to the dorsal ventricular ridge and the lateral cortex, and in the limited number of CSF-contacting DA neurons in the hypothalamus.
Glucosylsterol and acylglucosylsterol of snake epidermis: structure determination.	The structures of two classes of glycolipids, acylglucosylsterol and glucosylsterol, from snake epidermis have been determined by chemical, spectroscopic, and gas-liquid chromatographic methods. The acylglucosylsterol consists of a glucose molecule attached to cholesterol and an ester-linked fatty acid on carbon 6 of the sugar. The major ester-linked fatty acids are palmitic, stearic, and oleic. The glucosylsterol consists of glucose attached to cholesterol. These unusual glycolipids may play a role in epidermal barrier function in snakes and it is concluded that these sterol glycosides may remain in the reptiles as a vestige of a more primitive barrier-forming mechanism.
Studies on ribonucleic acid synthesis in the venom glands of Vipera palaestinae (Ophidia, Reptilia).	RNA metabolism in the venom glands of Vipera palaestinae was studied at different stages after manual extraction of the venom (milking). The rate of (32)P incorporation into gland RNA was found to be maximal at 1-4 days after milking in correlation with the height of the secretory epithelium. Venom production attained a maximum only after 8-16 days, in parallel with the accumulation of stable species of cellular RNA.
Radioautographic and biochemical studies of secretion of venom protein in the South American rattlesnake Crotalus durissus terrificus.	Protein secretion was investigated in the main venom gland of the South American rattlesnake, using radioautographic and biochemical techniques after a single intracardiac injection of L-(3,5-3H)tyrosine. All the snakes were injected at the fourth day of the secretory cycle and killed at 1/2, 1, 2, 4, 8 and 24 hours after injection. Most of the radioactive amino acid is cleared from the blood stream up to four hours after injection. On the other hand the specific activity (c.p.m./mg of protein) of the intracellular proteins reaches a peak at the 4-hour time interval decreasing afterwards. There was a good correlation between the values of the specific activity of the intracellular proteins and those of the silver grain density over the secretory cells at the several time intervals after the injection of 3H-tyrosine. The results of the quantitative analysis carried out in light- and electron-microscope radioautographs led to the conclusion that venom proteins are synthesized in the rough endoplasmic reticulum of the secretory cells, transferred to the Golgi apparatus from where they are carried to the secretory tobule lumen by the secretion granules. The fact that the values of the relative concentration of the radioactivity of he intracisternal granules double at the last three time intervals, strongly suggests that these structures are formed by the aggregation of the amorphous material present inside the cisternae of the rough endoplasmic reticulum.
Lactate absorption in Thamnophis proximal tubule: transport versus metabolism.	Proximal tubules from the kidney of Thamnophis (garter snake) were perfused in vitro and unidirectional fluxes of lactate measured using L(+)-[U-14C]lactate, (lactate concentration, 1 mM). The lumen-to-bath (absorptive) flux (Jlb lact) significantly exceeded the bath-to-lumen flux (backflux) (Jbl lact) in each of 12 tubules (seven distal proximal and five proximal proximal). The flux ratio (Jlb lact/Jbl lact) was approximately 3.00. At flow rates of 13-16 nl/min and lactate concentration of 1 mM the net flux was about 1.60 pmol . min-1 . mm-1 in both proximal proximal and distal proximal segments. Both fluxes were decreased by perfusion at 5 degrees C. To determin e the contribution of metabolism of lactate to its absorption, Jlb lact was measured at 25 degrees C in 10 distal proximal tubules during perfusion with [14C]lactate, lactate concentration, 1 mM, and with [methoxy-3H]inulin. In these experiments, the amount of 14C found in the bath was 93% of the amount of 14C absorbed from the lumen. Chromatography showed that all of the 14C found in the bath was [14C]lactate. These data establish that in Thamnophis proximal tubule lactate absorption occurs against an electro chemical gradient by transport of the intact lactate molecule without significant metabolism.
