MESAM 4: an ambulatory device for the detection of patients at risk for obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS).	A validation study was performed on the MESAM 4, a digital recording device developed to monitor oxygen saturation, heart rate (HR), snoring, and body position in order to screen subjects for obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS). MESAM 4 recordings were scored with the computer-based automatic scoring system provided with the equipment. Nocturnal polysomnography (PSG) and MESAM 4 recordings were run simultaneously on 56 subjects presenting with any type of sleep complaint, including those secondary to OSAS. Patients were assigned to one room by hospital administration and were monitored consecutively. The polygraphic equipment and MESAM 4 equipment were placed on the subjects by separate teams. Records of PSG and MESAM 4 were analyzed in double-blind fashion. With the MESAM 4 computerized analysis, three indices based on SaO2 (ODI), on heart rate (HVI), and on snoring (ISI) were obtained, and the number of abnormal respiratory events occurring during the time selected for analysis (TAT) were determined. Polysomnographic records were scored by 30-s epochs following the American Sleep Disorders Association standards for sleep states and stages and for sleep-related events, including sleep apneas, hypopneas, and periodic leg movements. Following independent scoring, 26 subjects were identified with OSAS by PSG, while MESAM 4 identified 25 subjects with OSAS using oxygen algorithm; all had a respiratory disturbance index greater than or equal to 10 with PSG. Results of each polysomnogram and each MESAM 4 analysis were compared. With the polysomnogram used as a standard, the degree of error for each variable with the MESAM 4 was calculated. Specificity and sensitivity of the most accurate index of the MESAM 4, the ODI, were 97 percent and 92 percent, respectively. The other two indices, HVI and ISI, were less accurate: specificity and sensitivity were 32 percent and 58 percent for HVI and 27 percent and 96 percent for ISI. Nevertheless, a combination of all three indices (ODI, HVI, ISI) would have prevented the two false-positive cases we observed. The results of this validation study show that MESAM 4 can be helpful to general practitioners, clinicians, and epidemiologists as a low-cost screening device for subjects with OSAS and habitual snoring.
The effect of adenoid and tonsil surgery on nasalance.	The change in nasalance following adenoidectomy, tonsillectomy and adenotonsillectomy was studied in 44 children. A subjective assessment of each child's naso-pharyngeal airway was made preoperatively based on a questionnaire completed by the parents. There was no significant change in the nasalance of children following adenoidectomy, but there was a significant increase in the nasalance following tonsillectomy (P = 0.02) and after adenotonsillectomy (P = 0.001). There was no relationship between the change in nasalance and the adenoid volume removed at operation. There was good agreement between the parental subjective assessment of the naso-pharyngeal airway and the preoperative nasalance score, with the best correlation in the adenoidectomy group (r = -0.8) and the adenotonsillectomy group (r = -0.7). Nasalance is more closely related to the size of the naso-pharyngeal airway than to the actual adenoid volume, and measurements of nasalance are of no benefit in predicting adenoid volume. Tonsillectomy had a significantly greater effect on nasalance than adenoidectomy, and adenotonsillectomy had the greatest effect. Further studies are needed to relate nasalance to the size of the naso-pharyngeal airway, but it appears to relate well to the subjective assessment of the airway and may be of use in patient selection for surgery.
Reference values for sleep-related respiratory variables in asymptomatic European children and adolescents.	Only a limited number of studies, designed to establish normal values for sleep-related respiratory variables in children, have been reported, and all are non-European. The aim of this study was to expand the knowledge on normative data in children.
Comparison between tongue base and soft palate obstruction in obstructive sleep apnea.	In obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS), respiratory disturbances are more serious in tongue base-associated obstructions (TBOs) than in soft palate-associated obstructions (SPOs), and the proportion of TBO was predicted by average duration of apnea and hypopnea, and inversely by percentage time of snoring.
Severe obstructive sleep apnea and associated snoring documented during external tocography.	Severe obstructive sleep apnea, a disturbance of sleep resulting from intermittent periodic obstruction of the upper airway, was diagnosed after cardiotocography during which the external tocodynamometer disclosed a pattern initially thought to represent uterine activity. In spite of this obstructive sleep apnea with associated markedly low, hypoxic oxygen saturation levels and daytime somnolence of 10 to 12 hours from 32 weeks until delivery, subsequent fetal outcome was good.
Pediatric obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) for the allergist: update on the assessment and management.	The purpose of this article is to provide an understanding of the epidemiology, pathophysiology, risk factors, potentially serious complications, diagnostic modalities, and treatment options available for pediatric obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS).
Auto-servoventilation in heart failure with sleep apnoea: a randomised controlled trial.	We tested the hypotheses that in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) and sleep disordered breathing (SDB) auto-servoventilation (ASV) improves cardiac function and quality of life. Between March 2007 and September 2009, patients with stable CHF (left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) ≤ 40%) and SDB (apnoea/hypopnoea index ≥ 20 events · h(-1)) were randomised to receive either ASV (BiPAP ASV (Philips Respironics, Murrysville, PA, USA), n=37) and optimal medical management, or optimal medical management alone (n=35). Outcomes were assessed at baseline and 12 weeks. The apnoea/hypopnoea index assessed with polysomnography scored in one core laboratory was significantly more reduced in the ASV group (-39 ± 16 versus -1 ± 13 events · h(-1); p<0.001) with an average use of 4.5 ± 3.0 h · day(-1). Both groups showed similar improvements of the primary end-point LVEF (+3.4 ± 5 versus +3.5 ± 6%; p=0.915) assessed with echocardiography. In the ASV group, reduction of N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) was significantly greater (-360 ± 569 versus +135 ± 625 ng · mL(-1); p=0.010). No differences were observed between the groups in subjective quality of life. In patients with CHF and SDB, ASV reduced NT-proBNP levels, but improvement of LVEF or quality of life was not greater than in the control group. The data support that such patients can be randomised in large-scale, long-term trials of positive airway pressure therapy versus control to determine effects on cardiovascular outcome.
A study on risk factors of cerebral hemorrhage in women]	To investigate the risk factors of cerebral hemorrhage in women, we conducted a 1:1 pair matched case-control study on 98 women with cerebral hemorrhage diagnosed by CT scan of the head and the same number of controls. Single factor analysis revealed that a high body mass index (BMI) increased the risk of cerebral hemorrhage (p < 0.05). Multiple conditional logistic regression analysis showed that hypertension, snoring and the use of OCs were independent risk factors of cerebral hemorrhage in women, and the odds ratios (ORs) were 8.36 (95% CI: 3.22-21.73), 3.84 (95% CI: 1.47-10.04) and 7.96 (95% CI: 1.27-49.83), respectively. No correlations between cerebral hemorrhage in women and their occupation educational level or history of menstruation and child bearing were found.
Habitual snoring as a risk factor for acute vascular disease.	We wanted to assess habitual snoring as a credible risk factor for acute vascular disease, mainly stroke and myocardial infarction. The patients selected for the study had been admitted to the hospital through the emergency department, and were evaluated by means of multidimensional interviews and clinical records: 164 had acute cerebrovascular disease, and 136 cardiovascular disease; 330 patients with nonvascular disease were the controls. The evaluation showed 48% of vascular disease patients to be habitual snorers, but only 30% of the controls; the difference was statistically significant. Compared with the controls, in the cerebrovascular patients the risk (odds ratio) associated with habitual snoring was significantly increased, and of the same order as the risk associated with age over 65 yrs, male gender, diabetes mellitus, and dyslipidaemia; whilst the risk associated with hypertension was higher. In the cardiovascular patients, the risk associated with habitual snoring was again significantly increased and of the same order as the risk associated with male gender, body mass index > 29 (kg.m-2), dyslipidaemia, heavy smoking, excessive alcohol intake and hypertension. A logistic regression analysis, entering the variables in the following order: age, gender, body mass index, diabetes, dyslipidaemia, smoking, alcohol, hypertension, and habitual snoring, showed that habitual snoring carries a significant risk factor for stroke and myocardial infarction, even after adjusting for other factors. Since habitual snoring carries a definite risk for acute vascular disease, we conclude that inquiring about it should become routine practice.
An acoustic screening test for obstructive sleep apnoea.	Third-octave sound analysis was performed on the snoring sounds of nine subjects with obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) and 18 with simple snoring. Both groups demonstrated a large low frequency peak in linear sound levels at around 80 Hz. However, the OSA group displayed a substantially larger high frequency sound component. We utilized this fact in the development of an acoustic index (Hawke Index: HI) which describes the ratio between the overall A-weighted and linear sound levels for the recorded snoring sound of each subject [HI = dB(A)/dB(SPL) for Lmax]. There was a significant positive correlation between the apnoea/hypopnoea index and the HI (r = 0.73, t = 5.3, 25df, P < 0.001). If a value of 0.90 or greater was taken as diagnostic of OSA, the HI exhibited 67% sensitivity, 100% specificity, 100% positive and 86% negative predictive accuracy. With further development, we believe this acoustic phenomena may have a role as a screening test in the diagnosis of OSA.
A grading system for patients with obstructive sleep apnoea--based on sleep nasendoscopy.	One of the most important parts of the management of patients with the obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome is the assessment of the level of obstruction in order to allow the appropriate choice of treatment. We have recently developed the technique of sleep nasendoscopy which allows direct visualization of the site of obstruction in the sleeping patient. Having performed over a hundred of these investigations we are able to suggest a grading system for these patients dividing them into five grades. Grade 1 = simple palatal level snoring; grade 2 = single palatal level obstruction; grade 3 = palatal level obstruction with intermittent orohypopharyngeal involvement; grade 4 = sustained multi-segment involvement; grade 5 = tongue-base level obstruction. We feel that this grading system will help in deciding which patients are suitable for surgery and which are not; hence avoiding unnecessary operations and allowing a more logical decision on the appropriate form of treatment. Results of the first 90 patients to have sleep nasendoscopy are presented.
Subjective symptoms and sleep apnea among persons referred to a sleep center. A questionnaire survey]	The aim of this study was to evaluate the relation between symptoms and clinical characteristics and the frequency of increased apnoea and hypopnoea activity. The study population consisted of 135 persons referred to a sleep centre. One hundred and fifteen patients (85%) completed a questionnaire and were subsequently monitored during one night's sleep. Fifty-two persons (45%) had an Apnoea Hypopnoea Index (AHI = the mean number of apnoea and hypopnoea episodes per hour of sleep) > or = 10. Forty-one (36%) had an Apnoea Index (AI = the mean number of apnoea per hour of sleep) > or = 10. Symptoms and clinical characteristics had no significant correlation to increased apnoea activity; however, there was a significant relationship between self-reported frequent breathing pauses during sleep and increased AHI and AI. Symptoms and clinical characteristics are not capable of identifying persons with increased apnoea activity.
