Comparison of castile soap, benzalkonium chloride, and bacitracin as irrigation solutions for complex contaminated orthopaedic wounds.	The purpose of the present study was to determine the effects of cleaning a contaminated orthopaedic wound with different classes of wound irrigation solutions.
Ineffectiveness of handwashing with lotion soap to remove nosocomial bacterial pathogens persisting on fingertips: a major link in their intrahospital spread.	The effectiveness of five 30-second handwashes with a non-antiseptic lotion soap to remove nosocomial pathogens (10(8) CFU) applied to fingertips was studied. CFU for all species dropped rapidly after the first handwash; persistence (10 to 15 CFU) was maintained thereafter. Wiping hands with an antiseptic (70% isopropyl or 10% povidone-iodine) sponge removed persisters.
Preoperative bathing or showering with skin antiseptics to prevent surgical site infection.	Surgical site infections (SSIs) are wound infections that occur after invasive (surgical) procedures. Preoperative bathing or showering with an antiseptic skin wash product is a well-accepted procedure for reducing skin bacteria (microflora). It is less clear whether reducing skin microflora leads to a lower incidence of surgical site infection.
Effect of calcium soap of fatty acids supplementation on serum biochemical parameters and ovarian activity during out-of-the-breeding season in crossbred ewes.	This experiment aimed to evaluate the effect of calcium soap of fatty acid (CSFA) supplementation on serum biochemical and hormones and ovarian activity during out-of-the-breeding season in ewes. Twelve crossbred ewes, 2-3 years of age and weighting 45-55 kg, were allocated into two equal groups. The first group was control and the other was treated with 50 g/head of CSFA. All ewes were fed basal diet and treated with 60 mg of medroxy progesterone acetate intravaginal sponge for 12 day. At the third day of sponge removal, the CSFA-treated group was given 50 g/head of CSFA daily for two estrous cycles. During the estrus phase, ovarian activity was detected using ultrasonography in both groups. All ewes were then subjected to natural breeding and conception rate. Blood samples were collected from all ewes during treatment period. Results revealed significant (P < 0.05) increases in serum cholesterol, triglycerides, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, glucose, and progesterone levels with decrease in calcium and phosphorous levels in treated group. In treated group, normal-size ovaries and more than one follicle on the ovaries were detected and pregnancy rate increased. In conclusion, CSFA supplementation was effective to maintain the reproductive performance when ewes were out of the breeding season.
Soaps and shampoos in pediatric practice.	Cleansing of the skin and hair is part of the daily routine of all neonates, infants, toddlers, children, and adolescents. Numerous soap and shampoo products are available to the consumer. The pediatrician is often asked to comment on the safety and efficacy of these products. Little information is available to help the pediatrician make a rational decision. The list of ingredients on the package are seldom useful and can be confusing. The theoretical and practical considerations leading to the addition of the major constituents of soaps and shampoos are reviewed and guidelines for the use of soaps and shampoos under normal circumstances and in a few selected conditions are suggested.
The effect of washing on the thickness of the stratum corneum in normal and atopic individuals.	The thickness of, and number of cell layers in, the stratum corneum and the living epidermis were determined on frozen sections of washed and unwashed skin from normal and atopic individuals of both sexes. The stratum corneum of atopic patients was thinner and had fewer layers of dead cells and intercellular lipid than normal, although the living epidermis was thicker. Regular washing with soap and water had no appreciable effect on the dimensions of the living epidermis of either group but caused a reduction in the number of cell layers and the amount of sudanophilic material in the stratum corneum of both. In atopic patients little surface lipid remained, suggesting that washing with soap and water may be detrimental to the barrier function of the stratum corneum in such patients.
Dansyl chloride labelling of stratum corneum: its rapid extraction from skin can predict skin irritation due to surfactants and cleansing products.	The irritation potential of surfactants and body cleansing products was determined by evaluating the removal of dansyl chloride from the skin. Dilute solutions (2% active ingredient, w/v) of surfactants and soap extract fluorescence from the skin within 30 min. This is probably a physicochemical effect as it is too rapid to be due to a modification of epidermal cell turnover rate. Such an extraction of the fluorescent dye occurs without any clinical sign of irritation. However, it may represent an early phase of the skin irritation process, because it is related to the ranking of irritant products as determined by other assessment methods.
Chemoprophylactic activity on Schistosomiasis mansoni of soaps containing essential oil from the fruits of Pterodon pubescens]	The chemoprophylactic action of the essential oil of the fruit of Pterodon pubescens Benth (Leguminosae), incorporated in different soap formulations, was studied in experimental schistosomiasis. The formulations were used locally on the tails of mice which were exposed to Schistosoma mansoni cercariae immediately, 24, 72 or 168 hours later by the method of tail immersion. Protection was evaluated 45 days after exposure when the mice were sacrificed and the worms collected by perfusion. The results showed levels of protection varying from 0.0 to 100% depending on the formulation used. A methodology that allowed the evaluation of soap protection of mice exposed to natural infection in snail infested streams on the outskirts of Belo Horizonte, MG, was also developed. Promising results were obtained in that protection of between 57.5 and 31.1% was observed in field trials when soap was applied to the animals 24 and 48 hours earlier. Preliminary studies evaluating irritation and toxicity were favorable and showed that this new prophylactic weapon could contribute to the control of schistosomiasis.
