Toward the development of integrative risk-adjusted measures of quality using large clinical data bases. The case of anesthesia services.	This article describes a process to risk-adjust multiple outcomes of care and aggregate them into integrative measures of quality. A methodology is outlined for anesthesia services which is designed to use the new data base that is being constructed by the American Association for Nurse Anesthetists. Most of the methods should apply to other health professions as well, if outcomes of care and risk factors can be identified. The basic approach is to choose either exemplary or adverse outcomes of care which are under the control of the provider and to standardize these outcomes to take into consideration multiple risk factors.
Sterility assurance replaces expiration dating.	OR Manager is examining sacred cows in the OR--practices blessed by time that do not necessarily improve patient outcomes. We'll give you the information you need to decide whether these sacred cows should be retired.
NAONline. A valuable Internet resource for orthopaedic nurses.	NAONline is a valuable Internet resource for obtaining current information about topics related to orthopaedic nurses. NAONline provides up-to-date information about NAON, upcoming events and registration information, membership information, NAON products, continuing education offerings, the Orthopaedic Nursing journal, online continuing education offerings, and a forum to exchange information on practice topics. This article highlights various aspects of NAONline, how to access the site, and a brief discussion on how to connect to the Internet.
Research priorities for nephrology nursing: American Nephrology Nurses' Association's Delphi Study.	The purpose of this study was to identify and prioritize research topics of importance for nephrology nursing and the American Nephrology Nurses' Association (ANNA). This was an explorative survey design using the Delphi technique. Nephrology nurses who are members of ANNA participated in the study. In Round 1 participants included 90 members of the Advanced Practice Special Interest Group. Round 2 participants were 537 nephrology nurses who attended the 28th ANNA National Symposium. Participants in Round 3 were 491 ANNA members who had at least a master's degree in nursing or another field. A three-round Delphi technique was used to solicit, identify, and prioritize problems for nephrology nursing research. In Round 1, 90 nurses identified problems in response to an open-ended question. These responses were analyzed and categorized into a 21-item research survey that was used for subsequent rounds. Round 2 participants rated each research question/topic on the survey on a 1 to 5 scale for level of importance. In addition, they were asked to identify the top-ranked research priorities from the 21 questions. In Round 3, the participants were asked to do the same as in Round 2. In addition, they indicated whether the research priority was primarily a nursing responsibility or a collaborative effort with other health care personnel. Based on 3 rounds of the Delphi study and analysis of both level of importance and rated-research priority, the five areas that were identified as research priorities are (a) nursing interventions to prevent vascular access infections, (b) nursing interventions to maintain vascular access patency, (c) educational needs of patients and families, (d) levels of nursing competence and the effect on patient outcomes, and (e) validation of nursing interventions to achieve patient outcomes. These research priorities provide direction for nephrology nursing research and the ANNA. This Delphi study represents a significant step for ANNA in its commitment to research.
Standards of perianesthesia nursing practice: advocating patient safety.	The practice continuum of perianesthesia nursing interacts in concert with other nursing and medical professional organizations. Professional standards of care establish frameworks that guide these practitioners in the delivery of care. ASPAN is charged with the ethical responsibility of defining and promulgating minimum standards of perianesthesia nursing practice. This article discusses the various definitions and uses of standards, as well as the vital importance of using ASPAN Standards. How standards differ from position statements, laws, and regulations, and how standards advocate for patient safety and protect the nurses in their specialty practice are also discussed. In addition, case scenarios will be presented to show how the American Society of Anesthesiologists' (ASA) standards play a major role in the surgical patient's care.
The Taxonomy II proposed by the North American Nursing Diagnosis Association (NANDA)]	This article aims to disseminating the development and characteristics of NANDA's Taxonomy II multiaxial structure. This structure offers greater flexibility to diagnoses statements and is more adequate to the contemporaneous nursing practices than the Taxonomy I.
Clinical leadership: Part 1. Key components of the programme.	This is the first in a series of three articles that provide an overview of the origins of the RCN Clinical Leadership Programme, the key components of the programme, the wide-ranging impact and benefits to date and the process for becoming an RCN-accredited clinical leader.
AORN nurse leaders provide insight into management issues.	Different people have different ideas about what makes a good manager. No matter what managers' attributes are, they bring a unique set of talents to their organizations. This article explores what winners of AORN's Award for Outstanding Achievement in Perioperative Nursing Management have to say about managing in today's health care climate.
Profile of successful AORN Foundation Scholarship applicant.	Each year, the AORN Scholarship Committee selects recipients of AORN Foundation scholarships to support educational advancement. Competition for scholarships increases as more AORN members return to school. Successful applicants are attentive to detail in following application guidelines, clearly articulate their appeal for a scholarship, include documentation of academic records and the school or program accreditation status, and convey their passion for caring through service to the community and to others.
Effect of shifting policies on traditional birth attendant training.	Traditional birth attendant (TBA) training commenced in many places in the non-Western world in the 1970s, supported by the World Health Organization and other funding bodies. By 1997, senior policy makers decided to refocus priorities on the provision of "skilled attendants" to assist birthing women. The definition of skilled attendants excluded TBAs and resulted in the subsequent withdrawal of funding for TBA training globally. A review of the health and sociological literature and international policy documents that address TBA training revealed how international policy and professional orientation are reflected in education programs designed for the TBA. Policy makers risk ignoring the important cultural and social roles TBAs fulfill in their local communities and fail to recognize the barriers to the provision of skilled care. The provision of skilled attendants for all birthing women cannot occur in isolation from TBAs who in themselves are also highly skilled. This article argues a legitimacy of alternative worldviews and acknowledges the contribution TBAs make to childbearing women across the world.
Promoting professional oncology nursing practice through position papers.	The position papers discussed in this article emphasize issues that relate to the clinical practice of oncology nursing and focus on promoting nursing roles, decreasing barriers to nursing practice, and address issues pertinent to nursing education and research. Position papers are not only helpful for advocating policy change with government and regulatory bodies, but nurses can use them to directly improve their work environments.
Tools for the advancement of quality care.	Position statements promoting quality cancer care are invaluable tools for oncology nurses. This article reviews the various position papers that promote quality cancer care, rehabilitation of people with cancer, the patients' rights to quality cancer care, participation in clinical trials, and those issues involving quality cancer care in the Medicare program.
Tobacco control policies of oncology nursing organizations.	Nurses, the largest group of health care professionals, and the policies of nursing organizations, have tremendous potential to promote health and tobacco control. Policies addressing tobacco use have been implemented by a variety of national and international nursing organizations. This article reviews existing tobacco control policies in oncology nursing organizations.
Nursing roles in cancer prevention position statements.	Preventing cancer saves the labor of mending social, economic, cultural, and emotional upheaval engendered by a diagnosis of cancer. The four position statements discussed in this article provide a wealth of perspective regarding the professional organizations' views on cancer prevention and the important roles of nurses.
Consensus statements, positions, standards, and guidelines for pain and care at the end of life.	Standards, guidelines, and position and consensus statements by themselves do not change practice or improve pain management and care at the end of life. However, if they are used effectively, they support best practices, provide a forum for discussion of current recommendations, and provide nurses with the latest science and information to advocate for effective pain and symptom management.
Perioperative education--perspective from the think tank.	The AORN Foundation and the National League for Nursing (NLN) cosponsored a think tank to address concerns about the shortage of perioperative nurses and the lack of perioperative experiences in many nursing programs. Think tank participants identified traditional and existing paradigms in nursing education and envisioned a new self-directed learning model for nursing school curricula, in which students would be held accountable for their own learning and faculty members would serve as learning facilitators. AORN and NLN members agreed to collaborate to spread the message that the perioperative arena is an excellent place for nursing students to develop the knowledge, skills, and values they will need to practice effectively in today's complex health care institutions.
Crafting strategy: a constituency plan for the future.	1. The difference in planning and crafting strategy is the level of involvement in the process. It is the crafting of strategy that requires the involvement of state and local constituencies. 2. Creating vision enables constituencies to clarify and realize what they really want, independently of what presently seems possible at the state or local level. 3. By developing an ideal reality or vision first, a bridge can be built between the current and desired organization without loss of purpose. The purpose of the organization is defined by AAOHN's Mission Statement. 4. The bridge is built by using a decision making process similar to the nursing process.
A case in point: "catch-all" clause protects nurses' rights.	Contracts are restrictions of management rights, containing specific language that details what the employer may do in different situations and setting forth various benefits and rights of the employees. In the absence of that specific language, employers are generally allowed wide latitude by arbitrators in the exercise of their management rights. In the following case, we will see how MNA used a specific "catch-all" clause in a contract to protect the rights of nurses to the scheduled hours and work locations for positions they had signed, despite the attempt of the employer to make significant changes.
Palliative care: a challenge for orthopaedic nursing care.	Patients who face chronic, incurable, or life-ending musculoskeletal conditions often receive inadequate care either due to a lack of caregiver awareness or inattention to maintaining the highest quality at the end of life. Palliative care focuses on the comprehensive physical, psychological, social, spiritual, and existential needs of patients with life-threatening or debilitating illness. Orthopaedic nurses and all nurses in general are challenged to incorporate palliative care principles into care planned with patients and families facing end-of-life issues. This article addresses the leadership role the National Association of Orthopaedic Nurses (NAON) has taken to develop a consensus document which endorses the Last Acts Precepts of Palliative Care and affirms the need for palliative care with patients who experience life-threatening illness. A case study is used to illustrate the opportunity a multidisciplinary team has to center care on the individual, while remaining sensitive to the holistic needs of the patient for self-determination at the end of life.
Advanced nurse-midwifery practice.	The Clinical Practice Committee of the American College of Nurse-Midwives is frequently confronted with questions related to clinical practice. Many questions relate to specific clinical procedures and the position of the College as to their appropriateness for nurse-midwifery practice. This paper presents a discussion of a document developed to assist nurse-midwives when such questions arise.
Examining the evidence for The International Confederation of Midwives' essential competencies for midwifery practice.	to present the evidence for inclusion of selected midwifery tasks (skills) as essential practice competencies for midwives throughout the world. The tasks addressed are those presented to the International Confederation of Midwives (ICM) Council of Delegates in 2002 for discussion and adoption, based on the fact that during field-testing, notable variance was encountered.
The history and evolution of the Core Competencies for basic midwifery practice.	The Core Competencies in Nurse-Midwifery were first published in 1978 to provide a standard approach to nurse-midwifery education and now serve as the template for curriculum in nurse-midwifery/midwifery education. This article is an expansion of an earlier publication documenting the development of the Core Competencies document and describes its history and use in midwifery education and professional practice. The development and continued revision of this document are a significant part of ACNM and midwifery history in the United States. It defines the competencies essential to basic practice and can be used to define the scope of midwifery practice in both professional and policy arenas.
Collaboration between nurses and physicians: no longer a choice.	Collaboration, a relationship of interdependence, requires the recognition of complementary roles. Traditionally, physicians generally have not demonstrated collaboration in their work with nurses; nurses, on the other hand, have more often sought a collaborative relationship. But the rapidly changing, increasingly complex and constraining world of health care requires that doctors, nurses, and the institutions that educate and employ them reevaluate the doctor-nurse relationship and assess the value of making it a more collaborative one. This essay deals with the phenomenon of collaboration, why there are compelling reasons to promote it, the barriers that exist between nurses and physicians in achieving collaborative relationships, and strategies to promote change. Comments of experienced observers and summaries of the pertinent research literature are presented.
Nursing management and JCAHO. American Organization of Nurse Executives.	JCAHO is one example of a powerful standards organization whose influence touches the daily lives of nursing managers, and some of whose programs are influenced by the efforts of nursing representatives and nursing organizations. The presence of accomplished nurse executives at the JCAHO strengthens the entire accreditation process for healthcare facilities. Oftentimes, these appointments are brought about through the advocacy, lobbying, and liaison efforts of national nursing organizations working together to ensure that nursing's perspective is heard and understood throughout the standards process.
Changing nursing practice: evaluating the usefulness of a best-practice guideline implementation toolkit.	This pilot study describes the evaluation of an 88-page Toolkit that was developed to guide nursing leaders, including advanced practice nurses, managers and steering committees, who were responsible for coordinating implementation of selected best-practice guidelines (BPG) in their respective agencies.
Implementation of the American Pain Society Quality Assurance Standards for Relief of Acute Pain and Cancer Pain in oncology nursing practice.	Cancer pain represents a high-incidence problem that requires ongoing monitoring and evaluation. The recently published American Pain Society Quality Assurance Standards for Relief of Acute Pain and Cancer Pain provides an excellent basis for developing a quality assurance (QA) program in cancer pain assessment and management. These standards contain five critical areas for monitoring and evaluation related to cancer pain. The purpose of this article is to provide a useful framework for oncology nurses to develop a QA program in cancer pain assessment and management. The Oncology Nursing Society Position Paper on Cancer Pain and the American Nurses Association/Oncology Nursing Society Standards of Oncology Nursing Practice are incorporated into the framework to develop specific monitoring criteria. Practical suggestions are provided for implementing a QA program on cancer pain in a variety of oncology practice settings, using the standards of the American Pain Society.
The genesis of the ACNM 1971 Statement on Abortion.	In 1971, the Board of Directors of the American College of Nurse-Midwives approved a statement that prohibited certified nurse-midwives (CNMs) from performing abortions. In 1990, the statement was superseded by a second "Statement on Abortion," which essentially reworded the 1971 statement with no substantive change. In 1991, 20 years after the first statement was adopted, a resolution was approved at the Annual Meeting recommending that the Board of Directors rescind the statement, thereby allowing individual CNMs to utilize the guidelines for the incorporation of new procedures into nurse-midwifery practice if she/he decides to provide abortions. This article describes the historical basis for the initial 1971 statement in the hope that an understanding of that history will assist nurse-midwives as they reconsider the statement.
Restructuring the American health care system: an analysis of Nursing's Agenda for Health Care Reform.	Equal access to health care for all citizens is a hotly debated issue of the American health care system. Different plans for reform that would allow equal access to health care have been proposed, but few include nurses as key health care providers. To correct this oversight, a coalition of more than 60 national nursing and health care organizations has created Nursing's Agenda for Health Care Reform, a blueprint for restructuring the health care system. This article reviews the agenda within the framework of the ethical theory of distributive justice. Distributive justice allows for the allocation of health care resources in a manner that is fair but not necessarily equal for all. The agenda addresses the basic level of health care needed by all Americans and supports the provision of primary care by nurse practitioners. Nurse practitioners need to be aware of plans to reform the health care system and should be supportive of those plans that enhance nurse participation in the health care system. Nursing's Agenda for Health Care Reform is a plan that encourages the health care consumer's participation and promotes nursing care as the link between the consumer and the health care system.
Competencies most valued by employers--Implications for master's-prepared occupational health nurses.	Educational institutions seek to prepare students to compete for positions in the workplace with a competency-based education. Employers are important stakeholders in the preparation of occupational health nurses. Competencies considered most valuable by employers will affect their hiring decisions. This study identifies competencies valued by employers in the workplace.
The ANA and research in nursing.	Research activities which always have been part of the American Nurses' Association program have increased greatly in the last 15 years. Among ANA's significant contributions to nursing research have been sponsoring nine nursing research conferences (1965-1973) and establishing the ANA Commission on Nursing Research and Council of Nurse Researchers.
Brief history of inclusion of content on culture in nursing education.	Nursing has a long history of focusing on the cultural dimension of care, dating back to Florence Nightingale and the early days of public health nursing. Nursing education studies advocated for including social science concepts in nursing curricula well before the founding of the first university school of nursing in the United States in 1910. A brief review of the highlights of major nursing curriculum, licensing, funding, accreditation studies, and initiatives reveals that culture competence in nursing education continues to receive increasing emphasis and support.
The DNP and entry into midwifery practice: an analysis.	The American Association of Colleges of Nursing recently published a policy statement calling for the requirement of the Doctor of Nursing Practice for entry into practice as an Advanced Practice Nurse by the year 2015. Certified nurse-midwives, defined as those educated in both nursing and midwifery, are commonly included in the definition of Advanced Practice Nurses, along with nurse practitioners, nurse anesthetists, and clinical nurse specialists. This paper explores issues related to the practice doctorate as an entry requirement for midwifery practice in the United States. The results of a brief survey of midwifery students indicate mixed interest in a clinical doctorate. At the present time, evidence points to the fact that current education requirements produce safe, knowledgeable, competent midwives. Because data are lacking regarding the potential impact of the proposed Doctor of Nursing Practice on the cost of education to both the institution and the student, on the applicant pool, and on the health care system, the Directors of Midwifery Education endorse a statement affirming support for multiple routes of midwifery education based on the ACNM Core Competencies, and does not endorse a mandatory requirement for the clinical doctorate for entry into practice at this time.
Protecting children from all forms of abuse and neglect.	Nurses have a key role in safeguarding children from abuse and neglect. This article outlines nurses' responsibilities in child protection and general protocols for talking to children and reporting concerns about their welfare.
Retrospective review and analysis of the results of taiwan nurses association nursing projects from 2004 to 2005]	Although a nursing project is one of the important N4 professional competence training courses in the clinical ladder system, little research on its effectiveness can be found. This study therefore aimed to analyze the demographics, hospital characteristics, scores, and pass rates for the Taiwan Nurses Association's 2004 to 2005 nursing projects and to compare the differences between them. The design was retrospective content analysis and the data sources were nursing project reviewer sheets from the years 2004 and 2005. Data were analyzed using descriptive statistics, such as number, percentage, mean, standard deviation, and Chi-square test, or Fisher exact test. We analyzed 1,062 nursing projects. Of these, 423 projects had third reviewers. After that, 2,547 reviewer sheets were used as final samples. The average project score was 59.7 points (SD = 9.3 points) and the majority of the projects were categorized as administrative and from medical centers, or private hospitals in northern areas of Taiwan. The pass rate was found to be higher in public hospitals, however, than in private hospitals. Almost all the projects (n = 2,515; 98.7%) included reviewers'comments. There was no significant difference between project pass rate and clinical specialty, scope, hospital location, and level of hospital accreditation (p > .05). A significant difference was found, however, between project scores and hospital characteristics (p = .01). These findings may serve as references in the development of future requirements for nursing projects in the clinical ladder system, to improve the quality and quantity of such projects.
Complexity compression: nurses under fire.	It has been documented that up to 40% of the workday of nurses is taken up by meeting the ever-increasing demands of the systems of healthcare delivery in which nurses are employed. These demands include the need for increasing documentation, for learning new and seemingly ever-changing procedures, and for adapting to turnover in management and administration. Attention to these issues also means that 40% of that workday is not available to patients. Believing that these increasing demands are affecting nurses' decisions to remain in nursing or to leave, a group of Minnesota nurses and nurse educators examined the work environments of nurses and the issues related to those environments. The result of this examination was discovery of a phenomenon affecting all nurses that may be central to the projected shortage of nurses. The phenomenon is complexity compression-what nurses experience when expected to assume additional, unplanned responsibilities while simultaneously conducting their multiple responsibilities in a condensed time frame. The phenomenon was validated by a group of 58 nurses who participated in focus groups that led to the identification of factors influencing the experience of complexity compression. These factors were clustered into six major themes: personal, environmental, practice, systems and technology, administration/management, and autonomy/control. Further validation studies are planned with the population of practicing professional nurses in the state of Minnesota.
A revised nephrology nurses' clinical ladder.	Recognition and compensation are two valuable tools for nurse satisfaction and retention. A clinical ladder program is one way that facilities can recognize and reward nurses. The ANNA Administration Special Interest Group has developed the Nephrology Nurses' Clinical Ladder as a framework to help guide facilities in developing clinical ladder programs to meet their needs. This document is meant to serve as a template, allowing individual nephrology programs to tailor the clinical ladder program to meet their specific organizational structure and needs, thus allowing for recognition of professional role development in all nephrology arenas.
Conflict resolution, delegation, evaluations, resources: an overview.	With this issue of the journal, we introduce a new column. The Administration Special Interest Group (SIG) will be using this forum for communicating information to the managers/administrators in the association, answering questions that have been posted on the ANNA website forum (www.annanurse.org), and including articles that are of interest to nurses in management positions. We welcome suggestions. If there are topics that you would like to see addressed, please let us know and we will try to accommodate your request. Our goal is to assist you in the execution of your managerial role on a day to day basis.
Oncology nurses' awareness of cognitive impairment secondary to chemotherapy.	The purpose of this cross-sectional, descriptive pilot study was to collect frequency data for oncology nurses' awareness of cognitive impairment (CI) secondary to chemotherapy, practice patterns related to assessment and education of patients and families about CI, and access to related educational materials. A convenience sample of 34 RNs was used in conjunction with a local Oncology Nursing Society chapter meeting. An 18-item survey was developed and piloted to collect data and demographic information from participants. Participants (100%) acknowledged awareness of chemotherapy-related CI. Most (94%) had attended educational programming on the topic and agreed that their patients had mentioned CI. Only 38% of participants assessed patients for CI and 44% educated patients and families on the topic. All nurses agreed that CI had some impact on patients' ability to perform activities of daily living and that CI caused at least some degree of distress. Most participants (71%) did not have access to related patient and family educational tools. The study provided support for the development of educational programs related to appropriate patient assessment and the development and distribution of related patient and family educational tools.
The role of RCNA in promoting transcultural nursing as a discipline of study, research, practice and management in Australia.	Royal College of Nursing, Australia has supported the development and growth of transcultural nursing in Australia for well over a decade. The College's leadership role has been evident on a number of fronts with events, publications and national networking opportunities for nurses who share a passion for furthering the principles and practice of transcultural nursing. This paper traces the journey of transcultural nursing in Australia from the perspective of the College, beginning with its role in forming the Transcultural Nursing Society in the 1990s. Achievements are highlighted, as well as continuing work over the intervening years, demonstrating the involvement and leadership of the College in Australia, in this important area of nursing practice. With increasing complexity in the ethnic profile of Australia's society, it is of ongoing relevance for the College to promote transcultural nursing as a discipline of study, research, practice and management in this country.
Abortifacient drugs: ethico-legal issues.	It is conceivable that an oral medicine capable of terminating pregnancy will become available for use in this country. Such a drug will pose significant moral and legal dilemmas for nurses who may find themselves embroiled in situations where they are uncertain of how to reconcile their consciences with statutory law and the requirements of their employers. The RCN Ethics and Nursing Committee offer some guidance on how nurses should act under such difficult circumstances.
Report of the National Commission on Nurse Anesthesia Education. The past, present and future of accreditation.	The role of accreditation in regulating the educational community is looked at in relation to the impact educators, university administrators, professional associations and governmental agencies have had on its effectiveness. Accreditation is viewed as a tool educational institutions can use to assess their actions and as a vehicle for initiating change when it is needed.
Surgical quality assessment. A simplified approach.	The current approach to QA primarily involves taking action when problems are discovered and designing a documentation system that records the deliverance of quality care. Involving the entire staff helps eliminate problems before they occur. By keeping abreast of current problems and soliciting input from staff members, the QA at our hospital has improved dramatically. The cross-referencing of JCAHO and AORN standards on the assessment form and the single-sheet reporting form expedite the evaluation process and simplify record keeping. The bulletin board increases staff members' understanding of QA and boosts morale and participation. A sound and effective QA program does not require reorganizing an entire department, nor should it invoke negative connotations. Developing an effective QA program merely requires rethinking current processes. The program must meet the department's specific needs, and although many departments concentrate on documentation, auditing charts does not give a complete picture of the quality of care delivered. The QA committee must employ a variety of data collection methods on multiple indicators to ensure an accurate representation of the care delivered, and they must not overlook any issues that directly affect patient outcomes.
Issues in financing nurse anesthesia education: institutional cost/cost benefits.	Cost issues and questions related to graduate nurse anesthesia education are raised from the perspective of a dean of a college of nursing. Suggestions relative to these issues are made, and various funding mechanisms that exist in institutions of higher learning are briefly discussed in relation to their cost and benefits.
Accuracy of bedside electrocardiographic monitoring: a report on current practices of critical care nurses.	Diagnostic criteria for many arrhythmias can be observed from any monitoring lead; however, other important criteria are "lead specific," such as the diagnostic QRS patterns in V1 that aid in distinguishing ventricular tachycardia from supraventricular tachycardia with bundle branch block or aberration. Therefore, it makes a great deal of difference which leads are selected for bedside monitoring. Our purpose was to determine which leads nurses select for monitoring, and the accuracy of lead placement. From a random sample of nurses who were members of the American Association of Critical-Care Nurses, 302 returned a monitoring questionnaire. Average critical care experience was 8.5 years. Lead II was most often selected (74%) for single-channel monitoring; lead II plus V1 (or MCL1) were most often selected (87%) for dual-channel monitoring. Only 37% of nurses demonstrated proper technique for obtaining their single lead of choice; even fewer (13%) demonstrated proper technique for obtaining their dual leads of choice. These results suggest that misdiagnosis of arrhythmias such a wide complex tachycardia in monitored patients may be caused by inappropriate lead selection as well as inaccurate lead placement.
Survey of nursing practice related to decanting intravenous solutions.	A survey instrument was mailed to a stratified random sample of 1000 nurses from the membership list of the American Association of Critical-Care Nurses to determine whether there are generally accepted standards for decanting intravenous (IV) solutions before the addition of medication. Four hundred seventy-eight surveys were returned from 47 states and the District of Columbia. Of those, 475 were usable. Seventy-one percent of the respondents did not decant. Of those who did decant (29%), 79% used a needle and syringe to withdraw a volume equal to that of the medication to be added. The results of this study indicate that no generally accepted standards of practice exist for the preparation of IV solutions. Patients may not, therefore, be receiving the dose prescribed by the physician. Nurses need to develop standards for accurate administration of IV solutions.
Development of outcome standards in critical care.	The forces influencing the development of outcome standards are gaining momentum. These forces are professional nursing issues, accreditation standards, and reimbursement issues. Traditionally, structure and process measures provided the means for evaluating the quality of nursing care. But nurses also play an important role in achieving positive patient outcomes. Outcome standards provide a mechanism for measuring patient outcomes. In 1990 the American Association of Critical-Care Nurses (AACN) published Outcome Standards for Nursing Care of the Critically Ill. The book serves as a model for developing and using outcome standards in critical care units. This chapter describes these outcome standards and recommends ways to use them. The Joint Commission on the Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations' (JCAHO) ten-step model outlines development of unit-specific outcome standards. Methods focus throughout on a quality assurance framework.
The quality assurance process in critical care education.	The American Association of Critical-Care Nurses (AACN) has developed education standards for critical care nursing. These structure and process standards can be used as part of the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations' (JCAHO) ten-step process for monitoring and evaluating critical care education programs. This chapter discusses the application of the monitoring and evaluation process, based on education standards, for critical care education programs.
Professionalization of South African nursing: who benefits?.	In this article the authors present a critical and alternative view of the reasons for and nature of professionalism in nursing, with particular reference to the South African situation. They show that professionalizing strategies have not necessarily been in the interests of the majority of nurses or of health care. First, some background information is given on the process of professionalization: its emergence worldwide and in South Africa, partly as a response of a predominantly female group to the power, prestige, and privilege held in the health sector by a predominantly male medical profession. The process in South African nursing is outlined, with particular emphasis on how this has paralleled political developments in South Africa. The proletarianization of a large body of nurses is examined as a contradictory trend to professionalization. The second part of the article is an analysis of the consequences of the professionalization process, which has had deleterious effects on the provision of health care as well as on relationships amongst nurses, their colleagues, and their communities.
Report of the National Survey of the American Academy of Nurse Practitioners, Part V: comparison of nurse practitioners according to practice setting.	This report focuses on the characteristics of nurse practitioners (NPs) according to work setting. Data regarding specialty, education, hospital and nursing home privileges, evening call, prescriptions, physician access and utilization, malpractice, and patient populations are reported.
AANA journal course. 13. New technologies in anesthesia: update for nurse anesthetists--clonidine: an established drug with futuristic indications.	Clonidine, an alpha-2 agonist, has traditionally been used to treat hypertension. Recently, it has been found to be a potent analgesic when administered either orally, transdermally or parenterally. This antinociceptive action is mediated at the spinal cord level through presynaptic inhibition of norepinephrine. Clonidine is also a valuable adjunct to anesthesia in a variety of clinical scenarios. In this lesson, the potential uses of clonidine will be elucidated, along with an explanation of its pharmacological and physiological mechanisms of action. Clonidine will be explored as an alternative avenue for providing hemodynamic stability and analgesia without the undersirable side effects often encountered with opioids.
Cardiovascular risk factors and lifestyle habits among preventive cardiovascular nurses.	The cornerstone of cardiovascular disease prevention is the promotion of a healthy lifestyle and the identification and reduction of cardiovascular risk factors. Cardiology nurses play a major role in counseling patients about lifestyle and cardiovascular risk factors. We used an e-mail survey to elicit self-reported prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors and healthy lifestyles among the Preventive Cardiovascular Nurses Association (PCNA) members and compared their risk profiles with published data for American cardiologists, the Nurses' Health Study 2, and the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance Survey data for women.
Your final assessment: determination of death.	After a long illness, a patient with a do-not-resuscitate (DNR) order took his last breath while surrounded by family at his hospital bed. His oncology nurse came into the room immediately to answer questions and offer support. She then explained that the house physician would come to pronounce their father. Sadly, 3 hours passed before this occurred due to other emergencies in the hospital.
Nursing morbidity and mortality conferences: a tool for enhancing quality patient care.	Morbidity and mortality conferences have been used to educate healthcare providers, to critique staff performance, and to improve patient outcomes since the early 1900s. Historically well documented in physician-focused journals, the use of morbidity and mortality conferences is less predominant in the nursing literature. This article highlights one hospital's experience with planning, implementing, and evaluating a nursing morbidity and mortality conference and identifies implications for use in professional nursing development.
Developing an effective quantitative research proposal.	In 2010, the Infusion Nurses Society began work to identify research priorities for infusion nursing. Nurses need to understand the research process and become proficient in collaboration to promote research in their specialty. One of the most important components of conducting research is the written research proposal. A poorly written proposal may result in denial of funding, rejected publications, and prolonged discussion and revision at the institutional or ethics review board. This article provides an overview of the elements needed in a research proposal, identifies institutional review board requirements, and highlights important criteria for recruitment and consent of subjects.
Rural children's exposure to well water contaminants: implications in light of the American Academy of Pediatrics' recent policy statement.	Implementing the recent American Academy of Pediatrics' (AAP) policy for annual well water testing will impact pediatric healthcare providers, who will be called upon for advice regarding testing, interpretation, and mitigation. We report findings from a study of low-income rural families' participation in household well water testing.
2009-2010 AANP national nurse practitioner sample survey: an overview.	The 2009-2010 AANP National Nurse Practitioner Sample Survey was designed to replicate a survey conducted previously in 1988, 1998, and 2004. The survey collected data on variables such as nurse practitioner (NP) education, specialization, practice patterns and settings, compensation, and prescribing. With responses from 13,562 practicing NPs, the survey provided a comprehensive description of the practicing NP population.
AORN Ergonomic Tool 3: lifting and holding the patient's legs, arms, and head while prepping.	Lifting the arms, legs, or head of a patient while prepping these areas for surgery can exert strong forces on the muscles and joints of the shoulders and backs of perioperative team members who perform this task, which may lead to work-related musculoskeletal disorders. AORN Ergonomic Tool 3: Lifting and Holding the Patient's Legs, Arms, and Head While Prepping provides scientifically based determinations of the amount of weight perioperative personnel can safely lift and hold manually for up to one, two, and three minutes using one hand or both. If these weight limits are exceeded, additional staff members or assistive devices are needed to help with the task.
Using bibliometrics to support your selection of a nursing terminology set.	Nurses are being pressured to integrate standardized nursing terminology into the electronic health record to enable the representation and evaluation of nursing practice. Five terminology sets are recognized by the American Nurses Association that contain terms to represent nursing diagnoses, outcomes, and intervention: CCC, ICNP, NANDA/NOC/NIC, Omaha System, and PNDS. Key criteria for choosing the most suitable include demonstrated use and testing under real-time clinical conditions, scope of terms, cost, and the administrative infrastructure to sustain and evolve the terminology. Likelihood of survival is also critical and was evaluated here by examining the diffusion pattern of each terminology set through bibliometric analysis. Each of the five sets had a unique diffusion pattern, with NANDA/NOC/NIC demonstrating the most extensive penetration and author network in the CINAHL literature examined from 1982 to 2006.
Meeting Magnet research evidence-based practice expectations through hospital-based research centers.	Hospital-based nursing research centers can create the structures and processes needed to promote and sustain research and evidence-based practice (EBP) and assist in the monitoring of care delivery outcomes. At the University of Rochester Medical Center, New York, a highly successful nursing research center has succeeded in creating a Magnet environment that incorporates research and EBP into strategic planning, individual employee performance review, and organizational processes. Support of a hospital-based research center can provide the foundation for an infrastructure that supports achievement of Magnet designation research and EBP criteria. The costs pertain primarily to the staff required to develop and manage the center and the educational programs offered through it. Based on the experience at this center, administrators should plan 3-5 years before significant impact is seen in terms of numbers of consultations performed and tangible increases in staff and leadership participation in research and EBP initiatives.
Using the AACN framework to alleviate moral distress.	In this article the author describes a situation in which the Nurse Executive's values were in direct opposition to those of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO). She describes how it took considerable courage on the part of the Nurse Executive to resolve this situation by demonstrating concern and respect for a chemically impaired staff member, rather than by focusing on the situation from a strictly "right versus wrong" perspective. After describing the situation the author emphasizes the importance of the leadership role of the Nurse Executive and shares the perspective of the agency's Chief Executive Officer. The author also explains how the American Association of Critical-Care Nurses' Framework (4 A's to Rise Above Moral Distress) was used as a resource to guide the Nurse Executive in moving the situation to a productive conclusion. Organizational outcomes of the situation are shared.
AORN Ergonomic Tool 6: lifting and carrying supplies and equipment in the perioperative setting.	Perioperative team members often are required to lift and carry heavy supplies and equipment into and around the OR; this includes lifting equipment such as hand tables, fluoroscopy boards, stirrups, Wilson frames, irrigation containers for lithotripsy, and heavy instrument pans. Lifting heavy objects creates considerable risk for musculoskeletal injuries to the back and shoulders. AORN Ergonomic Tool 6: Lifting and Carrying Supplies and Equipment in the Perioperative Setting can help caregivers evaluate lifting and carrying tasks and take measures to protect themselves from injury. Caregivers can use the revised National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health lifting equation to assess whether a specific lifting task can be performed safely.
Training breast care nurses throughout Europe: the EONS postbasic curriculum for breast cancer nursing.	The European Parliamentary Group on Breast Cancer and the European Society of Breast Cancer Specialists state that there is a need for EU agreed guidelines on breast care nursing and training. Therefore the European Oncology Nursing Society (EONS) commissioned the development of a post-basic curriculum for breast cancer nursing.
Influencing nursing education, policy, practice, and research: an interview with Kathleen Potempa. Interview by Jeffrey M. Adams.	This department highlights nursing leaders who have demonstrated a commitment to leading change. This interview, profiles the experience insights, vision, and thoughts of Kathleen Potempa, PhD, RN, FAAN, President of the American Association of Colleges of Nursing (AACN) and Dean of the University of Michigan School of Nursing.
2012 Beers criteria update: how should practicing nurses use the criteria?	The continued development of explicit lists of medications to avoid in older adults, such as the Beers criteria, is a key initiative in geriatrics. The involvement of nurse in this endeavor is critical , and nursing research, education, and practice will help not only develop but also disseminate important pharmacological management information to the public and thereby decrease drug-related problems and improve the health of older adults. Lastly, we wish to acknowledge Dr. Mark Beers' tremendous leadership in conceptualizing the importance of medication management in older adults and in acknowledging the significance of the full-team approach in patient care. Mark, who passed away in 2009, was an incredible mentor and true champion of safe medication use in adults.
Engaging families to participate in care of older critical care patients.	Provision of optimal outcomes for older adults can be understood through the use of the American Association for Critical-Care Nurses Synergy Model. These outcomes can be enhanced if strategies are designed to improve the characteristics of patients and families as described in the Synergy Model. When older adults are admitted to critical care units, spouses, children, and friends are in a position to participate in care. This column examines the Synergy Model's patient characteristic of participation in care relative to involvement of the family and significant others of the older patient as a method of enhancing optimal outcomes.
Position statement on visiting in adult critical care units in the UK.	To provide nurses with an evidence-based Position Statement on the standards patients and visitors should expect when visiting an adult critical care unit in the 21st century in the UK. The British Association of Critical Care Nurses (BACCN) is a leading organization for critical care nursing in the UK and regularly receives enquiries about best practice regarding visiting policies. Therefore, in keeping with the BACCN's commitment to provide evidence-based guidance for nurses, a Position Statement on visiting practices in adult critical care units was commissioned. This brought together experts from the field of critical care nursing and representatives from patient and relatives' groups to review visiting practices and the literature and produce a Position Statement. An extensive search of the literature was undertaken using the following databases: Blackwell Synergy, CINAHL, Medline, Swetswise, Cochrane Data Base of Systematic Reviews, National Electronic Library for Health, Institute for Healthcare Improvement and Google Scholar. After obtaining selected articles, the references from these articles were then evaluated for their relevance to this Position Statement and were retrieved. The evidence suggests a disparity between what nurses believe is best practice and what patients and visitors actually want. Historically, visitors have been perceived as being responsible for increasing noise, taking up space, taking up nursing time, hindering nursing care and spreading infection. The evidence reviewed for this Position Statement suggests there are many benefits to patients and nurses from visitors. There was no evidence to suggest that visitors pose a direct infection risk to patients. Clear visiting policies based on evidence will negate arbitrary decisions by nurses regarding who can visit and will lessen confusion and dispel myths which can only bring benefits to patients, staff and organizations. To make nurses aware of the physical and psychological benefits of visiting to patients. Visitors bring a positive energy to patients and can act as advocates. They can supply nurses with vital information about patients which will enable the nurse to provide more individualized care. Being cognizant of the evidence will help nurses develop policies on visiting which are up to date for the 21st century.
Moral distress and avoidance behavior in nurses working in critical care and noncritical care units.	Nurses facing impediments to what they perceive as moral practice may experience moral distress. The purpose of this descriptive, cross-sectional study was to determine similarities and differences in moral distress and avoidance behavior between critical care nurses and non-critical care nurses. Sixty-eight critical care and 28 non-critical care nurses completed the Moral Distress Scale and Impact of Event Scale (IES). There were no differences in moral distress scores (F = 0.892, p = 0.347) or impact of event scores (F = 3.80, p = 0.054) between groups after adjusting for age. There was a small positive correlation between moral distress and avoidance behaviors for both the groups. Moral distress is present in both critical care and noncritical care nurses. It is important that nurses are provided with opportunities to cope with this distress and that retention strategies include ways to reduce suffering and mitigate the effects on professional practice. 
The lived experience of participation in student nursing associations and leadership behaviors: a phenomenological study.	The purpose of this qualitative phenomenological research study was to obtain vivid descriptions of the lived experience of nurses who participated in a student nursing association (SNA) as students. Nursing graduates from five nursing programs in Long Island, New York were identified using a purposive sampling strategy. During individual interviews, the themes of the lived experiences of the participants emerged: (1) leadership: communication, collaboration and resolving conflict, (2) mentoring and mutual support, (3) empowerment and ability to change practice, (4) professionalism, (5) sense of teamwork, and (6) accountability and responsibility. Recommendations from the study included an orientation and mentoring of new students to the SNA by senior students and faculty. Additionally, nursing faculty could integrate SNA activities within the classroom and clinical settings to increase the awareness of the benefits of participation in a student nursing organization. Recommendations for future research include a different sample and use of different research designs.
Crunch time for US nurses.	Americans are preparing to vote in the presidential election. Nurses on both sides of the political divide explain why they are supporting President Obama, and his landmark healthcare reforms, or his Republican opponent Mitt Romney, who would scrap 'Obamacare' and reduce the role of government in health care.
The Doctor of Nursing Practice: defining the next steps.	The purpose of this article is to summarize the previous articles in this special issue of the Journal of Nursing Education that are based on the Committee on Institutional Cooperation's Dean's Conference on the Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) and to identify areas of consensus, as well as areas of controversy. Areas of consensus include the high level of interest in DNP programs and the intent to expand the role of the advanced practice nurse to population health, policy, and leadership. Areas of controversy include the nature of the DNP product, the definition of clinical experiences, the nature of the capstone project, the outcomes of these new practitioners, and the impact on schools. Suggestions for achieving higher levels of consensus, including the need for respective, inclusive dialogue, are provided.
'Regulators are not here to be liked, but I want the NMC to be respected'.	It has been an eventful 18 months for Nursing and Midwifery Council chief executive Jackie Smith. After taking over as acting chief executive in January 2012, she has been the public face of an organisation under intense scrutiny from politicians, the press and nurses themselves. 
2013 updated American Society of Clinical Oncology/Oncology Nursing Society chemotherapy administration safety standards including standards for the safe administration and management of oral chemotherapy.	In 2009, ASCO and the Oncology Nursing Society (ONS) published standards for the safe use of parenteral chemotherapy in the outpatient setting, including issues of practitioner orders, preparation, and administration of medication. In 2011, these were updated to include inpatient facilities. In December 2011, a multistakeholder workgroup met to address the issues associated with orally administered antineoplastics, under the leadership of ASCO and ONS. The workgroup participants developed recommended standards, which were presented for public comment. Public comments informed final edits, and the final standards were reviewed and approved by the ASCO and ONS Boards of Directors. Significant newly identified recommendations include those associated with drug prescription and the necessity of ascertaining that prescriptions are filled. In addition, the importance of patient and family education regarding administration schedules, exception procedures, disposal of unused oral medication, and aspects of continuity of care across settings were identified. This article presents the newly developed standards. 
Professional development for oncology nurses: a commitment to lifelong learning.	Think back to the day you graduated from your entry-level nursing program. The feelings we experienced at that time are likely universal, whether that day was one year ago or more than 40 years ago. No more tests, no more papers, no more clinical skills practice, and no more preparing the dreaded nursing care plan. School was finished. We all looked forward to passing our nursing boards and getting our first real nursing jobs. Certainly, we all had some vague idea that during our life as nurses we would, at some time, have to learn a new skill, or work with a new type of equipment; however, many of us did not seriously contemplate or acknowledge that we were embarking on a career path that expected us to be lifelong learners. Little did we know that engaging in the process of lifelong learning is not necessarily something that comes naturally; it is, in fact, a personal commitment that each of us makes to the pursuit of learning throughout our professional career. 
Social networking policies in nursing education.	Social networking use has increased exponentially in the past few years. A literature review related to social networking and nursing revealed a research gap between nursing practice and education. Although there was information available on the appropriate use of social networking sites, there was limited research on the use of social networking policies within nursing education. The purpose of this study was to identify current use of social media by faculty and students and a need for policies within nursing education at one institution. A survey was developed and administered to nursing students (n = 273) and nursing faculty (n = 33). Inferential statistics included , Fisher exact test, t test, and General Linear Model. Cronbach's  was used to assess internal consistency of social media scales. The  result indicates that there were associations with the group and several social media items. t Test results indicate significant differences between student and faculty for average of policies are good (P = .0127), policies and discipline (P = .0315), and policy at the study school (P = .0013). General Linear Model analyses revealed significant differences for "friend" a patient with a bond, unprofessional posts, policy, and nursing with class level. Results showed that students and faculty supported the development of a social networking policy.
Promotion of nursing diagnoses through the State Nurses' Association. The Iowa Case Study.	This article describes the formation of a nursing diagnosis interest group through the State Nurses' Association. Activities for the first 2 years are described. An annotated bibliography and resource list to help others learn about nursing diagnosis was prepared by the committee and appears here.
Transformational leadership practices of nurse leaders in professional nursing associations.	This study describes the transformational leadership (TL) practices of nurse leaders in professional nursing associations (PNAs).
Continuing professional development in nursing homes]	Continuing professional development (CPD) is obligatory for healthcare professionals. A CPD programme must combine the analysis of professional practices with cognitive elements. The opportunity to evaluate existing practices in a nursing home is important.
Lean in to our profession.	Nurses play a critical role in the delivery of high-quality, evidence-based health care. Nurses can "lean in" to our professional by voicing our opinions, contributing to decisions affecting health care practice and policy, and assuming leadership roles. 
Planning a collaborative conference to provide interdisciplinary education with a focus on patient safety in obstetrics.	Collaboration is an important component of evidence-based practice in modern health care. A number of publications have touted the benefits of "team training" to improve obstetric outcomes during emergent situations. In August 2011, the Ohio sections of the Association of Women's Health, Obstetric and Neonatal Nurses (AWHONN) and the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) held a joint conference that focused on interdisciplinary education to promote patient safety. This joint venture drew more than 120 attendees, 12 exhibitors and 17 poster displays. Evaluations were positive and attendees cited planned practice changes for themselves as well as for their respective institutions. 
American organization of nurse executives nurse leader survey: compensation trends and satisfaction levels.	The American Organization of Nurse Executives conducted a salary survey of more than 4,600 nurse leaders, capturing information from 2012. About half of the salaries fall between $80,000 and $130,000. When correlating years of leadership to salary level, the 10-year mark appears to be the tipping point in terms of higher salaries for nurse leaders, with 52% of those with 11 to 20 years of experience and 64% of those with more than 20 years of experience reporting annual salaries equal to or greater than $120,000. Overall job satisfaction is high among nurse leaders, with 62% stating that they are very satisfied and another 29% responding that they are somewhat satisfied. 
Implementing AORN recommended practices for environmental cleaning.	In recent years, researchers have developed an increasing awareness of the role of the environment in the development of health care-associated infections. AORN's "Recommended practices for environmental cleaning" is an evidence-based document that provides specific guidance for cleaning processes, for the selection of appropriate cleaning equipment and supplies, and for ongoing education and quality improvement. This updated recommended practices document has an expanded focus on the need for health care personnel to work collaboratively to accomplish adequately thorough cleanliness in a culture of safety and mutual support. Perioperative nurses, as the primary advocates for patients while they are being cared for in the perioperative setting, should help ensure that a safe, clean environment is reestablished after each surgical procedure.
1988 Delphi survey of nursing research priorities for New York State.	In order to inform decisions about nursing research and health care policy, the Council on Nursing Research of the New York State Nurses Association (NYSNA) conducted a Delphi survey to identify the priorities for nursing research in New York state. The Delphi technique is a method of eliciting judgements from experts for the purpose of short-term forecasting and planning. The survey was conducted by mail in three rounds during 1988. Round I required participants to identify three primary research priorities for the nursing profession. In Round II participants ranked the 37 most frequently identified categories from Round I. The highest 16 categories from Round II were ranked by participants in Round III to provide the final 10 nursing research priority categories for New York state. All members of the New York State Nurses Association holding a minimum of a master's degree in nursing were invited to participate. The response rates were: Round I, 34% (N = 872); Round II, 38% (N = 985); Round III 37% (N = 974). Of the 10 nursing research priority categories identified in the final round, 5 relate to nurses, 2 relate to nursing, and 3 relate to clients. None of the high-risk conditions or populations with whom nurses work appear in the top 10, and only 2 of these are ranked in the top 15 priority categories. These priority categories will be used by the NYSNA Council on Nursing Research to influence its future agenda and activities. They can be used by the nursing profession and others for planning, policy making, and establishing nursing research funding priorities.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Implementation of nursing diagnoses through integration with quality assurance.	Implementation of nursing diagnosis is both a challenging and frustrating procedure. Guidelines and published experiences are limited. Efforts of one hospital to implement nursing diagnosis demonstrated the value of using quality assurance techniques to monitor the effectiveness of the implementation. Implementation of nursing diagnosis without consideration of intervention and outcome criteria results in trial and error practice. Monitoring the quality and appropriateness of care using standards and criteria for nursing diagnosis leads to new knowledge and insights. The nursing profession now faces the test of managing and disseminating the information that comes from the implementation of nursing diagnosis.
ICN and WHO: a history of mutual cooperation and action.	Groundwork for cooperation between the International Council of Nurses (ICN), a nongovernmental organization, and the World Health Organization (WHO) actually started a year before WHO became a reality. At the Ninth ICN Congress in Atlantic City (USA) in 1947, Dr Brock Chisholm, then executive secretary of WHO's Interim Commission, prophesied that ICN would play an important future role in improving international health and urged that plans be formulated as to how the two organizations could best work together. When ICN began its "official relationship" with WHO in 1948, it pledged support of WHO's objectives and activities worldwide, which has continued unabated to the present day.
Research programs of the National League for Nursing.	National League for Nursing research programs are directed toward collecting useful data for the benefit of nursing and toward examining issues to aid in the formulation of policy. NLN's research program has grown by accretion, influenced by needs for additional data; it is organized to serve the requirements of the profession.
The current status and future challenges of psychiatric/mental health nursing.	To obtain a global picture of the current status of nursing education and nursing practice in the mental health/psychiatric field, the International Council of Nurses (ICN) sent a questionnaire to 23 of its 101 member associations. The basis for the selection was to obtain information from a broad spectrum of different associations, e.g. state of development--economic and political, language, and geographical region. Of these, 16 (or 69%) returned completed questionnaires, often accompanied by extensive supporting documentation. In addition, four nurses' associations in Africa completed the questionnaire during staff field visits in that region. This paper makes reference to the responses received to the questionnaire and some verbatim quotes are included.
The nurse whose specialty is developmental disabilities.	Specialization in pediatric nursing continues to expand as nurses meet the needs of children with special health care needs. The nurse whose specialty is developmental disabilities works with a unique population to assist them in both obtaining their maximal level of functioning and health, and obtaining the resources necessary to lead a quality life. This article describes the roles of this nurse.
Adopt-A-School Program: recruitment initiative of New York Counties Registered Nurses Association. District 13 education committee.	The goal of this program was to alleviate the existing nursing shortage in New York City by developing recruitment models appropriate for students in the City's high schools. The rationale was that well-informed nurses could create an attractive image of nursing by presenting programs to students, teachers, and guidance counselors. The program was successful in clarifying misconceptions and increasing the knowledge base regarding health issues and concerns and the role of the nurse.
The new code of ethics: implications for perioperative nurses.	This article will look briefly at the historical development of the Code of Ethics for Nurses and then critique the New Code of Ethics. From there, aspects of the Code will be applied to perioperative nursing. The Canadian Nurses Association (CNA) revised its Code of Ethics of Nursing to all its members in November, 1992. Nurses can be guided by this document in ethical issues which they must face in their work. Perioperative nurses encounter specific situations daily, for which the Code of Ethics can be a guide.
Professional associations, ethics, and society.	This article examines the role of professional associations, with particular reference to the Oncology Nursing Society (ONS), in relation to professional ethics. Also explored are the relationship between power structures and meaning and value structures, the relationship between the ideal of a profession and the reality of clinical practice, and the three functions of social ethics. Aspects of professional associations, ethics, and society are examined in terms of their reflection in the current ethical standards outlined by ONS in order to provide recommendations for future directions in ethics standards and oncology nursing practice.
Council on Certification Professional Practice Analysis.	The CCNA has completed a PPA and will begin implementing its recommendations with the December 1993 certification examination. The results of the PPA provide content validation for the CCNA certification examination. The certification examination is reflective of the knowledge and skill required for entry-level practice. Assessment of this knowledge is accomplished through the use of questions that are based on the areas represented in the content outline. Analysis of the PPA has resulted in changes in the examination content outline and percentages of questions in each area to reflect current entry-level nurse anesthesia practice. The new outline is based on the major domains of knowledge required for nurse anesthesia practice. These changes are justified by the consistency in the responses of the practitioners surveyed. There was overall agreement as to the knowledge and skills related to patient conditions, procedures, agents, techniques, and equipment that an entry-level CRNA must have to practice. Members of the CCNA and Examination Committee will use the revised outline to develop questions for the certification examination. The questions will be focused on the areas identified as requiring high levels of expertise and those that appeared higher in frequency. The PPA survey will be used as a basis for subsequent content validation studies. It will be revised to reflect new knowledge, technology, and techniques related to nurse anesthesia practice. The CCNA has demonstrated its commitment to the certification process through completion of the PPA and implementation of changes in the structure of the examination.
Quality through health policy: the Canadian example.	In Canada, as elsewhere, healthcare policymakers are being asked to make some tough tradeoffs between quality and cost. It is crucial that national nurses' associations take part in these discussions to ensure that nurses' and consumers' interests are well protected. The Canadian Nurses' Association has helped mould national health policy. In the process it has had all the advantages of influence and all the risks of being co-opted by the system itself. Below, an insight into the knowledge gained.
Developing national health policy in Taiwan.	Since 1987 ICN has been actively encouraging national nurses' associations (NNAs) and their members to play a more active role in health policymaking at the local, national and international levels. Below the author offers her first-hand experience in developing national health policy since 1988, when she became deputy director and then director of the Bureau of Health Promotion and Protection at Taiwan's Department of Health.
Professional values in baccalaureate nursing education.	The purpose of this study was to compare program objectives of National League of Nursing-accredited baccalaureate programs with the professional nursing behaviors that reflect the seven values identified by the American Association of Colleges of Nursing (AACN). Findings showed that most of the professional behaviors were found in program objectives. However, behaviors reflective of two essential values, truth and esthetics, were identified only in a minority of program objectives. In addition, research and life-long learning were overwhelmingly identified in program objectives, but they were not reflected in the professional nursing behaviors of the AACN document. The professional nursing behaviors were also classified according to the three major roles of baccalaureate graduates. The provider-of-care role was dominant, followed by the member-of-profession and coordinator-of-care roles.
Chapter scholarship development.	The Great Lakes Chapter of the Intravenous Nurses Society developed a scholarship program to reward members for participation in INS activities and to promote the INS goals of education and knowledge sharing. Scholarships were awarded for holding office or committee work, educational activities or authorship, meeting attendance and recruitment efforts, and certification/recognition by INS. This article describes the point system used for awarding scholarships, program funding, and pitfalls in the program.
Collaborative care receives stamp of approval in CMA, CNA study involving HIV/AIDS.	The CMA wants to work with national health care groups, such as the Canadian Nurses Association (CNA), to explore ways providers can work collaboratively to provide quality health care. A joint working group of the CMA and the CNA recently examined collaborative care, focusing on examples provided in HIV/AIDS care. The group developed principles to help people work collaboratively in a variety of settings.
AORN sales professional course.	The sales professional course "Introduction to the Operating Room" offered by the AORN Center for Nursing Practice, Health Policy, and Research is an introductory program in OR etiquette. Its purpose is to provide sales professionals a working knowledge of OR protocol for them to function appropriately in OR settings. Sales professionals who have completed this course establish mutually beneficial perioperative partnerships with OR personnel. Sales professionals' effectiveness is strengthened as a result of their newly acquired knowledge of OR protocol, and patient safety is protected. An AORN Certificate of Recognition is awarded on completion of the course.
Research & development co-ordinating centre.	This year the RCN launched its Research and Development Co-ordinating Centre, the main focus of which is a web site that allows nurses to access extensive R&D-related information on a range of topics. In this report, the authors explain the benefits for nurses and patients and how interacting with the site will shape its future development.
Implementation of NANDA nursing diagnoses online. North American Nursing Diagnosis Association.	The authors describe the online implementation of the standardized nursing language of the North American Nursing Diagnosis Association (NANDA) nursing diagnoses at one 250-bed community hospital located in Chicago. A brief description of NANDA nursing diagnoses is provided along with a discussion of issues regarding implementation of these nursing diagnoses in a clinical information system. This system did not support online documentation of patient problems, therefore the challenge was to add documentation of patient problems to the system's software. This article focuses on the design and implementation of the nursing diagnoses computer screens, rather than focusing on the two problems we encountered during implementation--appropriate use of nursing diagnoses and the fit of nursing diagnoses with nursing interventions. Yet, the lessons learned in designing and implementing NANDA nursing diagnoses online may help others.
Developing continuing education for contact hour approval: an update.	Developing quality nursing continuing education for contact hour approval requires a basic understanding of the nursing continuing education system and the application process. The Approver Unit of the National Association of Orthopaedic Nurses (NAON) helps providers (i.e., members, chapters, corporations) develop educational activities and grants contact hour approval. This article provides the latest information on nursing continuing education terminology and the application process for contact hour approval through NAON.
Mapping nursing diagnosis nomenclatures for coordinated care.	To map the problem or diagnosis terms from three nomenclatures, term to term, to determine commonalities and differences; and to determine whether it is possible to develop a single vocabulary that contains the best features of all. When different nomenclatures are used in different settings, continuity of care is hampered by the need to re-state problems and interventions.
Addressing urinary incontinence with educational continence-care competencies.	This article is a report of a task force formed from a discussion group hosted by the American Nurses Association on the AHCPR Guidelines on Urinary Incontinence. The need to standardize content related to bladder incontinence to be used in curriculums was identified as an initial step in implementing the guidelines. A task force was formed to develop educational competencies to be used by schools in identifying content that should be addressed at various levels of preparation. Although special training is needed when continence care is a significant part of a nurse's practice, it is expected that by using the educational competencies, schools will produce graduates at the basic level able to provide beginning continence care and graduate nurses able to address advanced incontinence problems.
