Under new management: the changing role of the state in the care of older people in the United Kingdom.	This article examines recent changes and those currently being introduced in the formal care of older people in the United Kingdom. These are part of a general trend in all welfare states towards welfare pluralism but, in addition, the United Kingdom represents something of a special case because of the radical ideological engine that has driven the restructuring of the role of the state. The first part of the article outlines the main changes--the promotion of the private sector, the residualization of the public social services, and the new managerial role of the state in the care of older people. The second part considers the implications of these changes for older people and their informal helpers (or caregivers). The conclusion refers to both the particular changes taking place in the United Kingdom and, in general terms, to welfare pluralism as a policy goal.
Social work in public health service as reflected by selected studies--a description of current status]	First of all the author gives a historical review of the importance of social work in public health service. The complementary cooperation between medical doctors and social workers is also described. The author then examines the activities of social workers in public health service on the basis of selected journals and the titles of these papers by graduates from medical "officer of health" courses of the Akademie für öffentliches Gesundheitswesen Düsseldorf. The results show that social work is still a part of counsel and care by the pubic health service. Offers for new target groups are suggested. Another important aspect is the cooperation with other interest groups such as resident doctors or institutions outside the public health office. Better presentation of the profession of social workers is also an important issue.
Responsibilities of occupational social counseling in health promotion]	As the modern world of labour changes, so do the areas of activity of the social advisory service in a company change. They are increasingly less concerned with traditional welfare work and are now including broad perspectives of preventive health measures and prophylaxis in general. There is a trend to professionalization and hence to changing the professional image: experts in socio-educational matters and persons who have undergone training in psychology are being increasingly employed. Social services are an effective complement to medical health care and hence also important cooperation partners for company doctors. Depending on the interests and aims of the company concerned abandon its structural employment pattern and long-standing sociopolitical traditions, as well as on new company policy guidelines, the social services differ in respect of their aims from company to company. Three examples are cited to illustrate this.
The public library system. Social services resource for the geriatric population.	The public library system is targeting the geriatric population and instituting programs to meet informational and recreational needs. From retirement planning, visual aids, and screening, to accessing library material to the elderly, the public library system attempts to meet the challenge of providing service to this special population. Although not a formal group, the library has inherent therapeutic effects that benefit the elderly who participate in their programs. The clinician would be advised to take advantage of these various programs. Because each local and regional center will offer different programs, calling a local library is the most effective way to find out what a specific public library system has to offer. Nurses may also consider joint efforts to initiate programs in their library systems to better meet the population's needs.
Is there a future for social work in HMOs?	Health Maintenance Organizations (HMOs) are a popular form of health care delivery in many parts of the United States. To what extent are social workers an integral part of this health care delivery system? The authors present the findings of a study that surveyed the role of social workers in HMOs and conclude that if social workers are to have a future in this system, they must advocate for themselves professionally and politically.
Time, social change, and social work.	The nature of time and social change is considered from two points of view, the linear and the synergistic. The implications of both for social work in health care are considered, related to the teachings of Hyman J. Weiner and to an ecological perspective.
Evolving social work roles in health care:The case of discharge planning.	This paper examines changing definitions of social work's role in health care and the continuing struggle for professional autonomy, in the context of the profession's responsibility for discharge planning. Planning for posthospital care is seen to be a major function of social work today and of traditional importance since social work's inception in the hospital setting. Major role and value conflicts are highlighted in a review of social work's traditional ambivalence toward the role of discharge planner and current recognition of the initial contribution of the profession to the continuing care of hospitalized patients.
Immunization among African American children: implications for social work.	Although childhood immunizations have proved to be one of the most effective means of preventing and controlling the spread of infectious and communicable diseases, thousands of preschool children, particularly children from urban African American poor families, are not being immunized. This article discusses the critical problem of low rates of immunization for this population and identifies ways social workers can play an active role in ensuring that more children are immunized. Immunization of preschool children is a function of the interrelationship among health-seeking behavior of parents, financial and nonfinancial barriers to health care, and provider practices that inhibit appropriate immunization. Improving access to existing public programs, facilitating community organization efforts, assisting communities through self-help and mutual-aid initiatives, and supporting national efforts can improve immunization status among poor children.
Social work with the elderly--current orientation and strategies]	Social work for the elderly in a demographical ageing society is not justified per se, but has to prove its utility under the altering social conditions of the changing age-structure. In the field of practice, this has led to an increasing need for professional orientation and to searching for profiles of performance with greater attraction. As manifold as the target groups are the spectra of social work for the elderly is also manifold in its content and methods. Nevertheless, we are able to recognize some general orientations and strategies, which are conceptual adaptions from social work in general, cultural work and educational work--combined with fundamental supplies of social gerontological knowledge. In this sense, social work, for the elderly--in its most advanced realms--should be integrated into an ageing-policy concept, which is of relevance for the society as a whole.
Ambulatory nursing-care related social work]	From a gerontological point of view, social work which accompanies care processes is absolutely necessary. The social production of care depends crucially on an appropriate attention toward the fitting between informal and formal help systems. Social work can support these fitting processes both on a firm level and on a neutral level. Some specific attributes of social work with elder care-dependant living in their private homes are discussed, such as threatening, difficult or ashaming aspects, as well as the necessity of all involved persons agreeing in the developed help-planning process. Practice research and Social science perspectives are discussed as appropriate reference system for life-world orientated social work with informal caregiving arrangements. Concerning the support of informal caregivers as an important example of ambulant social work with elder people, some dimensions of theoretical and practical professionality are proposed.
Basic functions and specialty standards of support management]	Three strategies are followed in handling the key issue within the field of action of care an services for the elderly: securing the material needs of those requiring care, creating appropriate care structures, and providing an effective counselling back-up to alleviate interface problems. Those latter, process-oriented aids, have been the subject of discussion and further development under the key term of case management for a good decade. The aim in this context is to prevent the elderly from being unnecessarily moved into residential care, to stop the revolving door syndrome, to ensure that older people can stay in their homes, to support family members acting as care providers, to enhance the quality of services and those to ease the strain on fund providers. In the context of case management, these diverse tasks are performed by three basic substantive functions: the gatekeeper, broker, and advocacy functions. Each of these three functions characterizes the main variants of case management with a different weighting (care management, community care, managed care and case management as a counselling approach with a particular focus on individual help). Although these variants may improve the handling of the key issue in the field of action of care, they nevertheless remain too limited in scope. The integration of a fourth basic function, the support function, leads to a modification and extension of case management and characterises the concept of support management which is better able to fulfill the tasks and standards in the field of action of the elderly population in need of care: interruption of the dynamics leading to residential care, grater transparency through the maze of service provision, the right of self-determination of those requiring assistance in the planning and implementation of care, and quality assurance of care arrangements; it also serves as a contribution to an improvement of care structures.
Social work in geriatric clinics--between autonomy and functional organization]	Geriatric therapy is defined through interdisciplinarity, teamwork, and multiprofessionality. Besides questions of medical therapy, psychosocial dimensions of elderly are highly relevant. Social work is mostly described as an important profession in the process of geriatric therapy. This work refers to the presentation and discussion of the results of an interdisciplinary study to the role of social work in German geriatric hospitals. It shows that the role of social work is determined by the various perceptions of the professions. Another influence on it is by the structures of the hospital. Social workers defines their activities through the relationship to the client; the other professions recognize the tasks of social work in a very diffusely way, mostly reduced in connection with the management of dismission of the patient from hospital. The professional education of social workers is not well known by the nurses and doctors. The fact that social workers are mostly acting under the responsibility of doctors, leads to a definition of problems and aims from a medical point of view. In many of the hospitals there are distinct problems of communication and cooperation between the professions. If the profession of social workers wants to contribute to the reduction of these impediments of communication and cooperation, they must actively and constructively communicate with the other professions and become more clear about their own professional way of acting.
