Labor looks to lead counter-revolution.	The withdrawal of the California Nurses Association from the American Nurses Association on Oct. 1 exposed the tensions in nursing. Should nurse organizations be primarily professional associations or collective-bargaining units? How should they address their employers and the public? Having reached different conclusions, the CNA and the ANA will go their separate ways.
A guide to the UKCC's professional conduct procedures.	The primary purpose of the United Kingdom Central Council for Nursing, Midwifery and Health Visiting is to protect the public. One of the most visible ways it does this is through its professional conduct procedures. This article sets out how these procedures work and acts as an introduction to a new series in the British Journal of Nursing highlighting examples of professional misconduct case studies.
Midwifery and the enlarged European Union.	The freedom of movement of midwives within the European Union has been guaranteed by the application of midwives' sectoral directives signed in 1980 and applied in 1983. Since then the size of the European Union has grown from 9 to 15 members and is due for a next wave of enlargement of another 10 member states in 2004. The rules and regulations that govern the European Union are being revisited to accommodate this change. Midwifery will be affected and some changes are potentially worrying, in particular the proposed loss of the Advisory Committee on the Training of Midwives. Six other professions regulated in a very similar way are also to lose their own advisory committees. The European Commission has proposed the adoption of a single directive for all professions, together with the setting up of an expert group whose function would be to deal principally with health professions. However, neither its remit nor its membership has been determined. Whereas previous movement of midwives within Europe has been minimal, it is anticipated that this may well be changed at the next enlargement stage. Without clear directives and some form of controlling power at European level, public health may be threatened. In this paper the developments to date and the concerns that have emerged from the recent proposals are outlined.
Creating a nursing vision for leadership in genetics.	Today, an increasing number of nurses are applying new genetic knowledge in their practice, research, and educational activities. Just as the evolving precepts of biology, psychology, sociology, medicine, public health, and economics are integral to the practice of quality patient care, so too are those of genomics. The International Society of Nurses in Genetics (ISONG) has taken up the challenge of educating nurses about genetics and about ways such knowledge might be integrated into practice.
Factors affecting membership in specialty nursing organizations.	A discouraging trend in many specialty nursing organizations is the stagnant or declining membership. The research committee of the Southeast Texas Chapter of the Association of Rehabilitation Nurses (ARN) collected data and studied this trend to determine what changes would be necessary to increase membership. Using Herzberg's motivational theory as a framework, a review of the literature was initiated. There were few current studies on this issue, but relevant information was found about nursing's emerging workforce, as well as implications of the growth of magnet hospitals, which affect whether nurses join specialty nursing organizations. A multifaceted data-collection approach using convenience samples was designed. First, relevant literature was reviewed. Second, a survey was sent by e-mail to other ARN chapters. Third, a telephone survey on other specialty organizations in the geographic region was completed. Finally, members of the local ARN chapter and four other specialty organizations, as well staff nurses in the geographic area, were given questionnaires to complete. Descriptive statistics and cross tabulations were used to determine why nurses do and do not join specialty organizations (N = 81). The most frequent reasons for joining an organization were to increase knowledge, benefit professionally, network, and earn continuing education units. Reasons for choosing not to participate were family responsibilities, lack of information about these organizations, and lack of time. Ways to reverse the decline in membership are discussed.
Oncology nursing: our past is the prologue ... can we author the future?	The development of the standards of care, roles in oncology nursing, and role competencies was an opportunity for Canadian nurses to revisit their professional roots, review and validate their present roles, and revise or reaffirm their future roles. The standards of care for individuals with cancer and their families affirmed the centrality of the individual and family in any nursing interaction and gave voice to the stated needs of Canadians at risk for, or living with cancer. For the first time in Canada, a specialty nursing organization has taken the lead to clearly define contemporary nursing roles and competencies. This new vision has captured the interest of oncology nurses. CANO, the nursing profession, other health care professionals, and health care decision-makers must now also consider how this enlightened view of oncology nursing can be operationalized. The presenters have had the opportunity to "hear" the stories of Canadian oncology nurses and their experiences in striving for excellence in their practice. These stories highlight the evidence supporting the standards of oncology nursing. In addition, the challenges and facilitators for achieving excellence in oncology nursing practice are identified. Through these stories, the future for the development of oncology practice and operationalization of the new standards of care emerges.
Position statements: advocacy or futility?	This introduction lays the groundwork for this issue on a Collection of Oncology Nurses' Position Papers. Position papers developed by professional nursing organizations reflect a theoretical and research foundation. The position papers in this collection are relevant to oncology nurses in various practice settings and discuss how we can use them most effectively in our various roles as patient advocates.
Running a successful campaign against unionization.	Unions, once rare in healthcare, are now targeting hospital employees as potential members. In an industry that has seen an increase in regulations, mergers and acquisitions, rising financial pressures, and changing working conditions, it is easy to understand why discontented employees are being targeted by unions now more than ever. Hospital leaders must look to lessons learned in other organizations to develop strategies that will ensure a successful campaign. In 2003, St. Louis Children's Hospital defeated the Missouri Nurses Association/United American Nurse with a 77% no vote. The authors describe an overview of unionization in healthcare and the strategies they used to successfully win this union election.
Cultural perspectives on nursing in the 21st century.	By the year 2000, more than one fourth of the US population will consist of individuals from culturally diverse groups. Increasing numbers of international visitors and exchange students will use the US health care delivery system, and US nurses will engage in international interchanges with increasing frequency. To keep pace with these population and health care trends, US nurses will need to base their nursing care on a theoretically sound foundation that draws on knowledge from the physical, natural, and behavioral sciences, as well as on research-based theories from transcultural, cross-cultural, and international nursing. The purposes of this article are to (1) trace past, present, and future population trends among minority groups in the United States; (2) examine the ways in which transcultural nursing has provided a framework for meeting the health care needs of culturally diverse people; (3) identify current issues and trends in transcultural nursing; and (4) suggest ways in which nurses can prepare for the increasing numbers of culturally diverse individuals who are projected to need nursing care in the future.
Development of the Society of Gastroenterology Nurses and Associates Minimum Data Set: an evidence-based resource.	The Society for Gastroenterology Nurses and Associates (SGNA) has developed a Minimum Data Set identifying the essential elements necessary to document delivery of patient care in the gastrointestinal endoscopic setting. Standardized information, such as a minimum data set, for facilitating communication among practitioners is believed to enhance patient outcomes. The SGNA Minimum Data Set was developed for "public" use to facilitate quality patient outcomes and to enhance the education, research, and clinical practice of GI nurses. Data were collected from a cross-sectional representation of geographic locations and settings (major medical centers, community hospitals, and free-standing clinics) in order to establish a broad evidence-based perspective for the data set. Data for the four primary endoscopic procedures: esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD), colonoscopy, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP), and flexible sigmoidoscopy; as well as the most common therapeutic procedures (biopsy, polypectomy, dilation, endoscopic ultrasound [EUS], and manometry/motility) were analyzed to establish the key elements of the Minimum Data Set. Focus groups with members from around the U.S. verified the validity of the Minimum Data Set. The SGNA Minimum Data Set can be used by healthcare institutions, industry, and individuals to facilitate the capture and analysis of standardized data for the purpose of improving GI patient outcomes and enhancing delivery of nursing care.
Daisy Ayris Lecture. The history of NATN. 40 years and counting.	Nancy Cox joined NATN in 1970, becoming deputy secretary in 1972, and national secretary from 1985-1989. This article is the second part of the Daisy Ayris Memorial Lecture given at Congress 2004. Nancy gives us a fascinating insight into the early days of the organisation, and how it has become the association it is today.
Working together, creating excellence: the experiences of nursing teachers, students, and clinicians.	This study, conducted to inform the development and implementation of the National League for Nursing Centers of Excellence in Nursing Education Program, provides a hermeneutical analysis of the common experiences and shared meanings of excellence as described by nursing students, teachers, and clinicians. Findings highlight how excellence resides in students and teachers working and learning together through enacting new pedagogies. Two themes are reported: "Working Together: Creating New Partnerships Between and Among Teachers and Students" and "Learning Together: Creating Excellence and Shaping the Future of Nursing Education Through Enacting New Pedagogies".
Nursing editors back words with money.	During their Ninth Annual Meeting, international nursing editors were told of the visit of Norah Casey, editor of Nursing Standard, to Romania on behalf of the Care for Romania Appeal. She found children dying of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, malnutrition, and other diseases. Through the Appeal nurses are being sent to care for the children and to provide education for their care givers.
Critical care education: experience with a community-based consortium approach.	A continuous cycle of new orientees, cost-containment issues related to orientation, and conflicting job priorities prove to be challenging adversaries for critical care educators. The San Diego Chapter of the American Association of Critical Care Nurses (AACN) has met some of these educational challenges by providing a community-wide, consortium-based Critical Care Nursing Internship Program (CCIP) for novice critical care nurses. Over the last 15 years this CCIP has been instrumental in providing comprehensive education for more than 2,200 novice critical care nurses in San Diego County. This article discusses the background, rewards, and current challenges of the program. It also addresses a comparison between consortium-based education and the National AACN Essentials of Critical Care Orientation (ECCO) Program.
Implementing Essentials of Critical Care Orientation: one hospital's experience with an online critical care course.	Critical care is a specialty area that requires a significant investment of time and money for clinical and classroom learning. One solution for learning that is flexible and cost-effective is the American Association of Critical Care Nurses' Essentials of Critical Care Orientation (ECCO). ECCO lays the theoretical groundwork for nurses to practice safely in critical care. Utilization of ECCO in one community hospital has been a 3-year process, which is continually refined by the critical care education team. Advantages to using ECCO include that it is self-paced, maintained by the American Association of Critical Care Nurses, and allows learners to flex their time and location for learning. Obstacles encountered include difficulties associated with computer learning, lack of hard copy notes, lack of face-to-face time interaction between orientees and education staff, increased work load for one education staff member, and keeping learners on track with their time and orientation. This article describes one hospital's experience with implementation of ECCO as the classroom portion of orientation to several critical care units.
Politicize or perish! the importance of policy for Australian psychiatric-mental health nurses.	As the largest professional group within the Australian mental health nursing workforce, psychiatric-mental health nurses are well positioned to influence mental health policy. However, the dominance of nursing by the medical profession has limited the extent to which this potential has been realized, with nurses remaining relatively unheard within the political arena. In recognition of this situation, the Centre for Psychiatric Nursing Research and Practice implemented a position for a policy analyst. Three primary aims were identified for this position: networking and relationship building, building profile, and providing a voice for psychiatric-mental health nursing. This article provides an overview of these three aims and the achievements to date. It is concluded that the policy analyst position has made a significant contribution to increasing the profile of psychiatric-mental health nursing and, therefore, to its capacity to influence policy.
Guide to nursing organizations.	Keep a copy of this chart handy in case you need to contact these nursing organizations.
Advanced nursing practice--the influences and accountabilities.	The past two decades have seen a proliferation of new, advanced clinical roles for nurses in the UK which has resulted in much debate about the nature of advanced practice as these new roles involve many tasks that were traditionally considered the remit of doctors. This article critically analyses the professional accountabilities of working at an advanced level and the influences which are driving the NHS modernization agenda with particular reference to the role of the Community Matron. It concludes that advanced nursing practice presents an opportunity for the combination of the art of nursing and advanced tasks, but emphasizes that new roles must develop within a recognized framework which takes account of the educational, ethical and legal accountability issues and clarifies the scope and remit of roles for health professionals, patients and indemnifying agents.
Patient empowerment: does it still occur in the ICU?	The theoretical underpinnings of patient empowerment were developed through the work of educators and community psychologists, working primarily with the socially disadvantaged. Empowerment is seen as a philosophy based upon the belief of the inherent worth and creative potential of each individual. Therefore, the aim of this paper is to explore whether this creative potential associated with patient choice that encapsulates empowerment is applicable to the Intensive Care Unit.
Development of the Massachusetts School Nurse Research Network (MASNRN): A Practice-Based Research Network to improve the quality of school nursing practice.	When school nurses embrace evidence-based practice (EBP), higher-quality care is provided to students, their families, and the larger community. Despite this, school nursing has been slow to embrace EBP. Practice-Based Research Networks (PBRNs), which capitalize on the combined strengths of clinicians and researchers to study clinical questions, are one approach to overcoming barriers towards advancing evidence-based practice (EBP) in school nursing. This article will briefly review EBP and PBRNs. The development of Massachusetts School Nurse Research Network (MASNRN), a PBRN designed to investigate health issues common across schools and to validate school nursing practice, will then be described. Details regarding MASNRN's mission, governance, communications systems, staffing, and network maintenance and funding will be explicated. MASNRN can serve as a model for PBRN development within the broader school nursing community.
A taste for change.	The RCN and Nursing Standard launch a campaign to improve patient nutrition and hydration.
The development of role adequacy for professional nurses in Jordan.	This paper reviews the development of role adequacy in Jordan through an examination of nurse education, specialization and continuing education programmes in order to identify the developmental needs for the Jordanian professional nurse's initial and continued competence.
Critical care nursing organizations and activities--a second worldwide review.	This study is the second world survey of critical care nursing organizations (CCNOs). The first survey was undertaken 6 years ago and data were collected from 23 countries over a 2-year period. The aim of the second survey was to profile the issues and activities of critical care nurses and their professional organizations, expanding on the previous survey to obtain both an update of the issues and a wider global perspective.
Factors affecting nurses' decisions to join their professional association.	Many nursing associations in the world are facing difficulties in increasing nurses' membership. Many researchers have identified possible causes for this decline.
A profession under threat? An exploratory case study of changes in Norwegian public health nursing.	The first courses for public health nurses in Norway were held in the 1920s-1930s. In 1957, the Act regulating public health nursing was passed. Norwegian public health nurses have a primary role in promoting health and preventing illnesses. Their role has changed with a changing society. This article shows some of the challenges the nurses have faced. It focuses on collaboration, tasks, leadership and authority/status.
Slavery: here and now. Interview by Alison Moore and Bill Doult.	Although British slavery was outlawed 200 years ago, many forms of slavery persist across the world. And there are resulting health problems.
Code of ethics and conduct for European nursing.	A main identifying factor of professions is professionals' willingness to comply with ethical and professional standards, often defined in a code of ethics and conduct. In a period of intense nursing mobility, if the public are aware that health professionals have committed themselves to the drawing up of a code of ethics and conduct, they will have more trust in the health professional they choose, especially if this person comes from another European Member State. The Code of Ethics and Conduct for European Nursing is a programmatic document for the nursing profession constructed by the FEPI (European Federation of Nursing Regulators) according to Directive 2005/36/EC On recognition of professional qualifications , and Directive 2006/123/EC On services in the internal market, set out by the European Commission. This article describes the construction of the Code and gives an overview of some specific areas of importance. The main text of the Code is reproduced in Appendix 1.
Professional regulation. Part 4: Self-regulation and the Consumer Council.	The thinking behind the Nursing and Midwifery Council, which came into being on 1 April 2002, was directed into two main veins: firstly, nurses who offended against the rules of the council would be disciplined according to a set of proscribed rule, with the spectre of being removed from the register ever present. The second vein was that of an increased presence and deliberate influence into the workings of the regulatory body, to the point of a lay input into the issue of sanctions being applied to nurses for perceived aberrant behaviour in addition to the influence asserted by Government by way of legislation (delegated legislation) and Department of Health policies and protocols. This resulted in layers of guidelines and 'principles for practice'. This article reflects on the theoretical concept of 'professional self-regulation' in the context of a suggested framework--produced by the National Consumer Council.
AADE guidelines. Infection control guidelines for patient education as a means of preventing blood-borne disease transmission during diabetes self-care procedures.	There exists a potential for blood-borne disease transmission with many diabetes self-care behaviors. It is necessary for the diabetes educator to instruct the patient regarding infection-control practices.
The reality of the education of the nurses' aide and technician in Rio Grande do Sul and the performance of the Education Commission of the Brazilian Nursing Association--the Rio Grande do Sul Section]	This study describes the work developed by nurses of the Brasilian Nursing Association/Rio Grande do Sul in 1989. They surveyed about special training courses to nurse's aides, aiming at licensed practical nurses. The authors present a historic report as well as the present situation of the courses in Rio Grande do Sul, emphasizing the number of students who complete the course each year and the number of nurse's aides who must attend a course until 1996.
State coalition councils. Intravenous nursing involvement.	Many states have developed a nursing organization of a different nature--a coalition of representatives from all specialties within the nursing profession. These coalitions have opened new avenues for coordinated actions among all nursing organizations. The Intravenous Nurses Society's legislative network has opened new doors for opportunity for legislative representatives on the local level. When combined, these two forces can result in many positive changes for the profession of nursing.
Using alumni associations effectively.	The purpose of alumni associations is to foster relationships with their schools' graduates. The author describes how an active alumni association can meet the needs of nursing schools and their graduates by increasing revenues and student recruitment, providing opportunities to network, and disseminating information. Examples of alumni activities that meet these goals and foster commitment to the school are discussed.
Caring for an aging population: review of policy initiatives.	Due to the aging population in the United States, there will be a need for a larger workforce that is prepared to provide care to an older adult population. The Institute of Medicine has noted challenges related to the preparation of a geriatric workforce due to lack of faculty, inconsistent curricula, and few training opportunities, and has made recommendations to increase the geriatric workforce. In this article, several policy initiatives are discussed that address the shortage of health professionals prepared to care for older adults. Initiatives by professional nursing organizations to improve the gerontological nursing workforce are also reviewed.
Latvian nurses depart from Soviet ways.	As their country tries to break away from the Soviet political system, Latvian nurses try to break away from a Soviet health care system that has relegated their profession to one completely dominated by physicians. Two Latvian-born American nurses provide a glimpse of the early stages of this struggle.
Regionalized education and the accreditation process.	The concept of regionalized education is discussed in relation to its application to nurse anesthesia education. New approaches to the existing process of accreditation are proposed to facilitate this new system of delivery. The Council on Accreditation is seen as the body that should take a leadership role in bringing about change.
Format of ANNA's long-range strategic plan.	In summary, ANNA's Long Range Strategic Plan is a working tool. This is not a document to gather dust. The format lends itself to use by a Board of Directors with information and direction flowing to the committee level and then the evaluation process sending information flowing back to the Board of Directors. This is the key to any successful strategic plan.
The validation of AORN recommended practices in Finnish perioperative nursing documentation.	In Finland, there are no common guidelines or recommended practices for perioperative documentation. Thus, perioperative nursing documentation varies from one operating department to another. To create minimum criteria for nursing documentation in Finland, we conducted an investigation in a university hospital district in 2006. Purposive sampling was used to invite experts in perioperative nursing documentation (N = 42) to serve as a Delphi panel. The final criteria are 120 items, 71% of which are based on the AORN standards and recommended practices. These criteria may be used to educate students and new perioperative personnel and to enhance the quality of nursing practice. To ensure relevance and usability, the criteria should be tested in various perioperative settings with a variety of surgical patients.
The professional association and practice excellence.	Nursing practice in occupational settings is different from nursing practice in acute care settings. Due to the sparse professional practice resources available to most occupational health nurses at the worksite, belonging to the professional association is important for support and knowledge enhancement needed to maintain practice excellence and credibility.
Neonatal nurse practitioners. Who are they?	A neonatal nurse practitioner (NNP) serves as the primary-care provider for in-hospital neonates. These practitioners receive different education and formal training than other nurse practitioners. The NNP's responsibilities may include managing patient care in an intensive-care unit, conducting normal newborn assessments and physical examinations, and providing high-risk follow-up visits. Career stressors, job satisfaction, and salaries vary among NNPs. The authors describe the variation in education and roles in this expanded nursing practice.
Should you have a speakers' table?	Should speakers have special, reserved seating at conferences? This column describes the pros and cons of having designated seating for presenters.
Certification 101: the pathway to excellence.	Certification in a nursing specialty validates that patient care providers have attained the knowledge and skills necessary for competent practice in the particular specialty, achieving a higher degree of professional competence than the minimal requirement for licensure. Certification yields benefits to the individual nurse, the profession, and the public, including improved patient safety and a commitment to lifelong learning.
Credentialing: the need for a national research agenda.	A national research agenda is needed to promote inquiry into the impact of credentialing on health care outcomes for nurses, patients, and organizations. Credentialing is used here to refer to individual credentialing, such as certification for nurses, and organizational credentialing, such as American Nurses Credentialing Center Magnet recognition for health care organizations or accreditation of providers of continuing education in nursing. Although it is hypothesized that credentialing leads to a higher quality of care, more uniform practice, and better patient outcomes, the research evidence to validate these views is limited. This article proposes a conceptual model in which both credentials and standards are posited to affect outcomes in health care. Potential research questions as well as issues in research design, measurement, data collection, and analysis are discussed. Credentialing in nursing has implications for the health care professions and national policy. A growing body of independent research that clarifies the relationship of credentialing in nursing to outcomes can make important contributions to the improvement of health care quality.
Financial savvy: the value of business acumen in oncology nursing.	Have you given serious thought to your individual ability to affect the high cost of health care? If so, you may have determined that the opportunity to have any meaningful effect on cost of services for patients with cancer is limited. You may believe that budgets are the responsibility of nursing leadership. Indeed, the development of the unit or department budget is an activity that many of us have no direct (or even indirect) role in completing. Once the budget is finalized, we are frequently given directives to control our costs and improve the financial bottom line for our employers. One could argue that this is a particularly difficult missive for oncology nurses with the soaring costs of chemotherapy and biotherapy drugs, the expenses incurred to provide supportive care needed by patients with cancer, and the need to provide services to the increasing number of cancer survivors. 
AASCIN strategic plan--1993-1998.	A long-standing commitment to planned growth and development are essential for the AASCIN to be effective in influencing the direction of spinal cord injury (SCI) nursing. Recognizing these needs, a long-range planning initiative was supported by the Board of Directors in March, 1990. A task force was charged with the responsibility for outlining the future of the AASCIN through the development of a five-year strategic plan. The long-range planning initiative was divided into two segments. First, a Delphi Study was developed to obtain membership input into AASCIN's priorities. Once this data was collected, the Strategic Planning Task Force synthesized the results of the study and developed a five-year AASCIN strategic plan. The purpose of this article is to describe the process and content of the proposed AASCIN strategic plan. The report begins with a brief description of the Delphi Survey, which forms the foundation for the strategic plan. Since the strategic plan needs to be congruent with the organization's mission statement and goals, the organizational plan of AASCIN is presented. Lastly, a brief summary of how the organization proposes to use this strategic planning document is provided.
European nurses take lead in quality assurance.	In Europe patients are increasingly entering the healthcare debate, demanding explanations and questioning medical practice and clinical nursing traditions, at a time when human and financial resources are short and the relevancy of standard setting and quality assurance activities are being questioned. Working on heavily loaded units, nurses may feel tempted to dismiss the need for systematic evaluation of their work. However, quality assurance may be the way to empower nurses, but only if done collectively.
Nursing quality assurance in Finland.	Explicit quality assurance efforts in nursing in Finland began over 15 years ago. Nurses have taken the lead for initiating projects and standards, better abilities and awareness of the nature and variations of quality, and the factors associated with it. The Finnish Federation of Nurses (FFN) has been a facilitator, having organized five-day training courses and a support network to set off activities by local associations.
An association's campaign to influence policy.	When an opportunity was opened to make its voice heard in the arenas of political action and policy development, the New York State Nurses Association (NYSNA), a member of the American Nurses Association, began to implement strategies to achieve its policy goals. Below, the strategies it used to influence the policymakers on issues important to professional nursing.
Nursing Informatics in Brazil. A Brazilian experience.	Nursing Informatics in Brazil began around 1985. In 1990, the Nursing Informatics Group at the Federal University of São Paulo (NIEn/UNIFESP) was created. The first task was to prepare students and professors to use computers. Since its creation, members of NIEn/UNIFESP have been working in clinical practice, administration, education, and research areas of Nursing Informatics. Initially, the discipline was introduced in the Doctoral and Master programs. Subsequently, all specialization degrees and undergraduate programs were provided with the discipline as well. In the research area, the author explores the use of computers as a tool to support nursing research as well as the implications of computer resources in nursing practice, administration, and teaching. However, the use of the computer as an instrument to support nurses' activities in taking care of patients still needs investment. The majority of hospital information systems do not attend to the nature of nursing practice.
