Physician Health Research Conference (Estes Park, Colorado--September 15-17, 1996): progress report one year later.	The 1996 Physician Health Research Conference was the first conference to focus exclusively on research issues and methods for impaired physicians. The conference was initiated by James Shore, M.D., professor and chairman of the Department of Psychiatry in the School of Medicine at the University of Colorado Health Sciences Center and superintendent of the Colorado Psychiatric Hospital, and Stephen Dilts, M.D., Ph.D., medical director of the Colorado Physician Health Program and clinical professor of psychiatry at the University of Colorado Health Sciences Center. Forty participants represented a wide range of national organizations. The conference was supported by contributions from the American Medical Association, American Psychiatric Association, Colorado Physician Health Program, Colorado Physician Insurance Program, and the Department of Psychiatry and Colorado Psychiatric Hospital at the Health Sciences Center. In addition, the conference was cosponsored by the American Academy of Addiction Psychiatry, the American Society of Addiction Medicine, and the Federation of State Physician Health Programs. This paper summarizes the formal presentations of the conference.
Rationing and the role of the emergency department as society's safety net.	Emergency medicine has an integral role in the establishment of universal access to health care for all persons living in the United States. Currently, emergency departments provide the only unfunded mandate available to millions of American residents who otherwise have no access to health care coverage. Any effort to establish universal care must accept health care rationing as a basic principle, and establish a minimum standard of benefits to which all human beings are entitled in this country. People and employers should be allowed to purchase additional care based on their willingness and ability to pay, but under no circumstances should anyone be denied a basic package of health care benefits. Emergency care must be part of those basic benefits. Emergency medicine charges should be structured so that they are not unduly onerous to society, and should reflect true expenses, including marginal costs for nonurgent care. Emergency physicians (EPs) and hospital administrations should recognize their critical role in serving society in roles that are not strictly medical, and allocate resources to benefit the general population in the greatest way. This role will be expanded to include preventive care, to provide for basic pharmacologic coverage as needed, and to provide necessary immunizations when traditional primary care has failed. We have a moral obligation to recognize that resources are limited and to allocate them so as to benefit the greatest number of patients in the greatest way. As members of the medical profession best equipped to assume such a task, it is incumbent upon EPs to act as advocates to the public to enable us to fulfill this mission.
The Japanese society of alcohol-related problems.	This paper presents an outline of the Japanese Society of Alcohol-Related Problems. The precursor of the Society was the Japan Alcoholism Treatment Research Group, inaugurated in 1979, by merging two local research groups in the Tokyo and Osaka areas, both of which were exclusive gatherings of psychiatrists associated with alcoholism clinics. The Research Group developed into the Society in 1992, as the number of participants including those from other medical professions increased yearly, and the subjects of the group widened to include all addictive behaviours. In reflecting the process of establishment, it is unique in many aspects as a scientific society. The Society is not a science-orientated body for presentation of new research findings. The main programme of the annual meeting is therefore a set of symposia in which members participate and discuss clinical and/or social problems arising from dependency on alcohol or drugs. Perhaps because of its content, the annual meeting is attended each year by the largest number of participants among all the societies in Japan concerned with alcohol and drugs. For the next several years, the Society's activities will be directed at (1) establishment of guidelines for early identification of and intervention in alcohol-related problems; (2) expansion of its membership to include those in related fields of medicine and non-medical professions; (3) improvement of the system of journal publication; and (4) creation of a system for timely adequate response to social problems associated with drugs and alcohol.
Conflict of interest and professional medical associations: the North American Spine Society experience.	Recently the financial relationships between industry and professional medical associations have come under increased scrutiny because of the concern that industry ties may create real or perceived conflicts of interest. Professional medical associations pursue public advocacy as well as promote medical education, develop clinical practice guidelines, fund research, and regulate professional conduct. Therefore, the conflicts of interest of a professional medical association and its leadership can have more far-reaching effects on patient care than those of an individual physician.
Research support by the British College of Optometrists.	The British College of Optometrists has now been in existence for 15 years. One of its first actions was to establish a formal system of research support. The initiation of the scheme and its subsequent expansion is described. In the first year epsilon 5,000 pounds was allocated but current expenditure for 1994/1995 is epsilon 78,671 pounds. Research topics funded are described as are the award of higher degrees by universities and also the current occupation of former scholars. The thesis submission rate for college scholars compares well with those of the major established Research Councils.
Attitudes of Florida Academic Physicians toward the Florida Medical Association.	An Ad Hoc Committee on Academic Physicians was given the charge in 1992 of studying Florida academic physician's participation in the Florida Medical Association. It was postulated that academic physicians may participate less in organized medicine than community physicians and, therefore, may be a group that should be selectively targeted during membership campaigns. Data was obtained from the American Medical Association Masterfiles about Florida academic and community physician membership in the FMA and AMA. Academic physicians at the four academic medical centers in Florida were surveyed about their attitudes toward organized medicine, especially the Florida Medical Association. Unlike any other state in the Federation, more academic physicians than community physicians were members of the state society (46.9% v 43.5%) p < 0.05, which was accounted for mainly women academic physicians. There were substantial differences across the academic medical centers with the University of Florida at Gainesville and Jacksonville being overrepresented, the University of South Florida having average membership, and the University of Miami being underrepresented. Florida academic and community physician membership in the AMA was 34.6% and 38.5% respectively, which was consistent with national trends. Academic physicians at the University of Florida campuses rated their relationship and communication with the FMA as being better than academic physicians at the University of South Florida and Miami. Academic physicians at all four medical centers rated membership dues as being too high relative to the benefits derived, but there was indirect evidence to suggest that this was an apparent and not real barrier. Also, academic physicians thought that the FMA represented community physicians more effectively than academic physicians. The state of Florida is unique in that more academic physicians than community physicians are members of the state medical society. The differences by academic medical centers may be accounted for by variations in leadership at the different medical centers. Decreasing the membership dues for academic physicians probably will not have a significant effect on membership of academic physicians. The FMA should direct efforts at informing academic physicians about how the FMA is representing their interest in forums such as governmental and other regulatory agencies, and third party payers like the insurance industry.
The selling of olestra.	The Procter & Gamble Company spent 30 years and an estimated $500 million to bring its non-digestible fat substitute, olestra, to market. The Food and Drug Administration approved olestra as a food additive but requires products containing olestra to carry a warning statement about its potential effects on gastrointestinal function. In obtaining approval for olestra, P&G conducted a lengthy, persistent, and comprehensive campaign to enlist support from members of Congress; FDA staff; and food, nutrition, and health professionals. This campaign raises larger questions about corporate influence on government policies, and the relationships of corporations to health professionals. To address these larger concerns, the author reviews the history of olestra's approval; describes P&G's campaign to obtain support from FDA and Congress, to defend olestra against critics, and to market it to professionals, the press, and consumers; and suggests implications for public health policies.
