Disease activity and severity in patients with rheumatoid arthritis: relations to socioeconomic inequality.	The aim of this study was to investigate possible differences in measures on disease process, joint damage, health status and self-efficacy between patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) living in an affluent and in a less affluent area in the same city. We analyzed data collected on patients enrolled in a community-based register of patients with RA in Oslo, Norway. 246 patients were examined by questionnaire in 1994 and 133 patients were examined clinically in 1997. Measures on disease process, joint damage, health status and self-efficacy were compared between patients from two residential areas. There was no significant difference regarding joint counts, patients' or investigator's evaluation of disease severity, blood test results and number of joint replacements. Significant differences were observed for disability and for various dimensions of health measured by the arthritis impact measurement scales and the short form-36: patients in the less affluent area reported poorer health status. Patients in this area also showed significantly lower scores on the arthritis self-efficacy scale. Patients with RA in two socioeconomically different areas in Oslo thus were found to be equal regarding disease process and joint damage measures. However, in the measures reflecting physical and psychosocial health status, patients in the less affluent area seemed to be more seriously ill. They also showed less confidence in their ability to influence the disease. Even in a welfare society with universal access to health care the impact of a well-defined chronic disease seems to be closely linked to the patient's socioeconomic situation.
Social inequalities in male mortality amenable to medical intervention in British Columbia.	The objective of this study is to examine the rates of mortality among different social classes and socioeconomic groups of British Columbian males from causes of death amenable to medical intervention. We examined the rates of avoidable mortality from the causes of death published by Charlton, excluding causes of death restricted to women as well as perinatal deaths. For the purposes of our study, we determined a population at risk using 20% samples of occupational data for men from the 1981, 1986 and 1991 censuses conducted by Statistics Canada. For the analysis of mortality by social class, individuals were divided into five social class levels based on occupation using an adaptation of the UK Registrar General's Social Class Scale. In addition, three levels of socioeconomic analysis were performed using the Blishen Index classification system. Once individuals were assigned to a social class in each classification system, the death rates from each amenable cause was calculated and standardized to the total population. For almost every cause of death examined, the rate of mortality was higher in individuals of lower social and socioeconomic classes than in individuals of the upper social and socioeconomic classes. These results were consistent regardless of the social class component, education, occupation, or income was being measured. The mortality gradient was most notable in deaths due to hypertensive heart disease, tuberculosis, asthma and pneumonia and bronchitis. Due to the fact that these causes of death were observed to be consistently higher in the lower social classes, we feel that specific measures aimed at improving survival from these conditions in lower social classes could help to amend the social class disparity.
Lifecourse social conditions and racial and ethnic patterns of cognitive aging.	A lifecourse perspective is key for understanding and interpreting racial and ethnic patterns in neuropsychological test performance. In this article, we discuss contextual factors that shape the environmental conditions encountered by racial and ethnic minorities in the United States, in particular African-Americans. These conditions include geographic segregation at the level of regions, metropolitan areas, and neighborhoods; intra- and inter-national migration patterns; socioeconomic position, including financial resources, and occupational and educational opportunities; discrimination; and group resources. Each of these exposures sets in course a cascade of individual mediators that ultimately manifest in neuropsychological outcomes. The physiological and behavioral consequences of these pathways likely accumulate across the lifecourse. We focus on cognitive aging, although the processes discussed here begin in infancy and likely influence cognitive outcomes throughout life from childhood into old age. A lifecourse framework can help inform clinical encounters, neuropsychological research, and surveillance regarding the population prevalence of cognitive impairments.
Social support and living conditions in poor elderly people in urban Mexico]	The aim of this paper was to analyze social support and living conditions among poor elderly people in Mexican cities. A qualitative study with eight focus groups was carried out in Guadalajara, Cuernavaca, Chilpancingo, and Culiacan, Mexico, in 2005. Forty men and 63 women participated in the study. The main support for the elderly in daily living came from their immediate family and in some cases from neighbors. Social support was basically material and economic, in addition to providing company and transportation for medical appointments. Daily emotional support, companionship, and social inclusion were minimal or absent. The study identified a significant lack of support from government and religious or civil society organizations. The family is still the main source of support for the elderly. Increased government collaboration is dramatically needed to combat the misconception that the needs of the elderly are the individual family's responsibility rather than a collaborative effort by society.
Intensity and correlates of multidimensional problems in HIV patients receiving integrated palliative care in sub-Saharan Africa.	Despite global clinical guidance that HIV patients should have multidimensional care integrated into their management, there has been very limited data to guide practice since the advent of treatment. This study aimed to determine the three-day period intensity of problems (physical, psychological, social and spiritual) among HIV patients receiving integrated palliative care in sub-Saharan Africa, and to identify associations with problem severity.
High religiosity and societal dysfunction in the United States during the first decade of the twenty-first century.	This study provides independent empirical evidence that bears upon the truth or falsity of recently formulated hypotheses regarding reciprocal relationships between levels of religiosity and societal dysfunction. Gregory S. Paul's findings, published in the Journal of Religion and Society (2005), Free Inquiry (2008), and Evolutionary Psychology (2009), have demonstrated that high degrees of theism are associated with high degrees of societal dysfunction among the prosperous democracies. Whereas his research employs numerous scatter diagrams and bivariate correlations involving measures of religiosity and societal dysfunction pertaining to 17 nation states, the current study's units of analysis are the 50 states and the District of Columbia. Additionally, the utilization of multiple regression analysis allows the detection of the effects of other potentially relevant explanatory variables, such as educational attainment, income level, and race. The findings are only minimally supportive of Paul's hypotheses regarding the contributions of high religiosity to societal dysfunction and to the effects of societal dysfunction upon religiosity. Simultaneously, the results of correlational and regression analyses attest to the more substantial explanatory power of the social inequality variables of education, income, and race. Accordingly, it is argued that "American Exceptionalism," when understood as referring to a society manifesting the coexistence of high levels of theism and high levels of societal dysfunction, is best explained by the United States' high degree of social inequality, compared with other modern industrialized democracies.
Food insecurity and mental disorders in a national sample of U.S. adolescents.	To examine whether food insecurity is associated with past-year DSM-IV mental disorders after controlling for standard indicators of family socioeconomic status (SES) in a U.S. national sample of adolescents.
Indirect morbidity indicators and social differences in the ISTAT quarterly workforce survey]	Information on the health condition job related of the population are often collected in specific studies, usually limited over time and concerned with a small part of the general population. Looking at official statistics, sources such as national health surveys (in Europe and in North America) are rich on health data, but often offer little information on job-conditions, and job history. On the other hand, one also can find official sources, mainly concerned with labour and job related topics, in which information related to the health status of the people interviewed are routinely collected. These are the Labour Force Surveys, carried out in the most of developed countries. In the Italian Labour Force Survey (RTFL) the Italian Statistical Institute (ISTAT) quarterly collects information on health-related sick absence, part-time job and unemployment. Data from RTFL of two Italian regions (Lombardy: 1985, '86, '89 and Veneto: 1985, '86) show differentials by age and job-position that are consistent with expectation, encouraging an extensive use of this source for surveillance purposes at the national and regional level.
