Can we learn health care lessons from Germany?	While Americans are unlikely to import a foreign health care financing system lock, stock and barrel, the country could learn from Germany's checks and balances that maintain fairness, economy and professional freedom, says this well-known congressional adviser.
Public and private imperatives of Greek health policies.	Health care in Greece has historically developed into a multi-tier system, a mosaic of public and private providers of services covering the members of occupational social insurance organizations. In 1983 PASOK's socialist government established a unified National Health System. The aim was to arrest the growth of the private sector and promote the public sector to a dominant position. The socialist legislation has recently been reviewed by a conservative government that aims at a competitive mixed market of public and private providers. The growth of private health care, however, is not solely a matter of political support but also of new opportunities for profitable investments that arise from a shrinking public sector under economic and fiscal constraints.
Health system reform in former socialist countries of Europe.	The health systems of all the former socialist countries of Europe are in the midst of far-reaching reform. The process is still in the early stages but certain patterns of finance and provision are beginning to emerge in a number of countries. All are implementing payroll-based social insurance while some are beginning to restrict entitlement to those contributing. There is a danger the process of restructuring will leave many without adequate insurance cover. Market solutions are being introduced in many countries to improve the efficiency of provision. Assuming the administrative cost is not too great, this may improve choice and quality of personal care. It is, however, unclear how far these solutions will tackle the fundamental public health problems endemic in these countries today. Those countries that have been slower to implement reform may benefit from learning from the successes and failures of the pioneers.
Health services financing in Poland.	The right to a free health service is identified as one of the founding rules of socialism; yet other sources of funding, both public and private, should not be neglected. This article reviews the major sources of financing health services in Poland. In particular, a description is made of the size and composition of funding from non-governmental sources including: quasi-budget funds, other funds, and out-of-pocket payments; and some proposals are made for change. Further work is needed in developing the criteria by which policy choices can be made, and in developing the information base; at the same time, political and social criteria will still be very important, not least on the issue of user charges.
Policy reform and health administration education in Greece.	Under a Socialist Government since 1981, Greece has had dramatic policy reforms that aim to socialize the health sector. The National Health System Act (1983) and related legislation have seriously affected most aspects of health care in favor of the public sector. However, the traditional consumption patterns developed in the private sector continue to exist, and many aspects of medical technology have remained almost untouched. From these reforms and their shortcomings, the need for extensive administrative reforms and health administration education has emerged. A task force on the latter has led to the establishment of a graduate program to be supplemented with continuing education for all health care employees. This article points out the importance of such training programs for Greece.
Regional disparities in health care supply in eleven European countries: does politics matter?	There are large differences both among and within European countries in the supply of health care facilities and personnel. In 1979 Smith posed the hypothesis that spatial disparities in health care supply will be smaller in countries with socialist (or social-democratic) governments. The aim of this paper is to examine this hypothesis by analysing whether or not regional disparities in health care supply within countries are smaller in countries that have been governed predominantly by socialist governments. We have collected regional data on the number of hospital beds and the number of physicians for 211 regions in 11 European countries for 1970 and 1990. Countries were classified according to the political composition of governments in the post-war era. It is concluded that: (1) the amount of regional variation is greater for hospital beds than for doctors; (2) for both aspects of supply, regional disparities decreased over time; (3) the decrease in regional disparities between 1970 and 1990, both for beds and for doctors in hospitals, was stronger for countries that had more years of socialist government in that period and (4) there is no relation between the number of years of socialist government between 1945 and 1990 and regional variation in health care supply in 1970, nor for government participation between 1970 and 1990 and variation in supply in 1990.
The effects of socialist transformation on the fertility of the rural population of Ethiopia.	"Drawing on the experience of pre-revolutionary Russia, Poland, India, the Philippines and Kenya, an attempt is made to assess the implications  the 1975 Land Reform will have [for] fertility in rural Ethiopia.  The experience of these countries strongly suggests that in the short run, the 1975 Land Reform will have a powerful positive effect on the fertility of the rural population.  Change in favour of smaller families will set in once the peasant mode of production becomes progressively socialized."
Exploring couple attributes and attitudes and marital violence in Vietnam.	Using a couple-centered approach, this study focuses on the relative attributes and attitudes of spouses as predictors of marital violence. Analysis of data from Vietnam showed that 37% of married women have ever been hit by their husbands. Regression results found that husbands with lower resources or status than their wives were more likely to have abused. Results also found that the association between husbands' gender attitudes and marital violence depends on the level of equity of wives'attitudes. The decline in violence among couples in which husbands expressed gender equitable attitudes was greater when wives also expressed equitable attitudes.
Cuban parasitology in review: a revolutionary triumph.	Although the population of Hispaniola, Cuba's most similar neighbour in the Caribbean, continues to be threatened by parasitic diseases (including malaria), many tropical parasitic infections in Cuba have been eliminated or controlled. However, some parasitic infections remain important in the Cuban population, and the occurrence of vectors and the high possibility of introduction of parasites mean that Cuban diagnosticians must remain alert. Some key aspects of human parasitology in Cuba are reviewed here, including historical information, comparative data from Hispaniola and Jamaica, and how Cuba strives to maintain and improve its control against parasitic infections. Data from recent key novel parasitology research conducted in Cuba are also described.
Towards a national health service for South Africa. A personal view.	Circumstances are propitious for a new look at the Gluckman Report of 1942-1944 with a view to introducing a national health service for South Africa, including the homelands and national states. The circumstances relate to the ethical question of the patient's medical care, without economic disadvantage, being paramount in a health care system. Other issues concern doctors in a salaried service; a burgeoning population; the high cost of health care to the individual patient and to the State as a result of a proliferation of health bureaucracies. The issues are compounded by economic decline, unemployment and adverse socio-economic factors, which militate against the privatization of health care.
Hospital reforms in France under a Socialist government.	French health care faced the dual crises of rising costs and excess physicians. No government, whether left or right, could avoid focusing reform on the extensive public hospital system. Many differences introduced by the Socialists after 1981 were rhetorical and relational--matters of "democratization" of governance and "control" of physicians. Paradoxically, the two major structural reforms, "departmentalization" and "global budgeting," were extensions of actions begun under preceding governments. Neither has come to fruition yet.
Critical comments on the theory and practice of behavior therapy from the viewpoint of Marxist-Leninist philosophy]	By analyzing previous critical studies of the theoretical and methodological positions of behavioral therapy, which were conducted on Marxist-Leninist principles, the authors discuss the complex relationship of one-sided philosophical assumptions, simplifying elements of psychological theories, and radional moments of successful practical application in certain fields. Both critical delimitation from untenable theoretical interpretations and the inclusion of rational forms of therapy in a complex system of psychotherapy are considered essential.
