Revamped osteopathic hospital group flourishing.	Once on the brink of extinction, a restructured, relocated American Osteopathic Hospital Assn. is "well on the way to achieving its new mission," one observer says. The rebirth follows a near merger with the American Hospital Assn. in August 1990. Under new leadership, the group is growing, making money and expanding its advocacy of osteopathic medicine.
Managing health services organizations with an educational mission: the case of Canada.	Teaching hospitals represent a major segment of the Canadian health system, accounting for a disproportionate number of beds, patient days, and separations. Thus, although only six percent of hospitals are classified as teaching hospitals, they are responsible for about 36 percent of total hospital operating expenses. While affiliation with a medical school presents unique opportunities for the teaching hospital and increases its prestige, there are clear costs associated with affiliation. Administrators have less control over resource allocation decisions, including the types of teaching programs offered. Teaching hospitals cannot unilaterally design their own teaching programs around specialties and subspecialties of their own choosing; decisions related to teaching programs have a direct impact on the services provided by the hospital and may negatively affect the hospital's ability to fulfill its patient care mission. As education budgets are constrained, teaching hospitals are expected to assume outstanding teaching-related expenses. Teaching hospitals are also expected to shift some of their teaching to alternative settings, such as the community. Thus, teaching hospital administrators will require a strong background in finance as well as negotiation and political skills.
How the Partnership for Action helps hospitals wield clout.	The AHA/state hospital association Partnership for Action provides grass-roots input to members of Congress from hospital representatives throughout the United States. This article describes how the Partnership was instrumental in last year's defeat of the Carter Administration's hospital cost containment legislation.
An open forum on: a national clinical engineering society.	An open forum was held on May 16, 1989 on the topic, A New Clinical Engineering Society? Representatives of the AAMI, IEEE/EMBS, ASHE and the SBET presented descriptions of the roles and services of their societies in support of Clinical Engineers and BMETs. Independent Clinical Engineers described their concerns regarding the development of the field; a proposal was made for the establishment of a new CE society. About 50 professionals, representing a broad cross section of clinical engineering, participated in a debate that touched on educational requirements certification, ethics, independence of action, "marketing" of the roles of CEs and BMETs, and the possible need for a new CE society. A vote was taken to represent the opinion of those present. The idea of immediately forming a new society was voted down and an ad hoc Task Force on Clinical Engineering was formed under the chairmanship of Yadin David, Ph.D. The participants called upon the AAMI, IEEE/EMBS, and the ASHE to appoint representatives to the Task Force. The new Task Force could: (1) recommend the formation of a new society; (2) call for increased cooperation between existing societies and propose long-range plans; or (3) recommend the formation of a College of Clinical Engineering or an umbrella organization to bring existing societies together.
Laboring for union nurses. With CNA's first win outside Calif., competition is heating up to organize registered nurses. Some say that's good for providers.	The competition to represent registered nurses is getting hot. When Cook County, Ill., nurses, shown at left awaiting the outcome of the election, voted earlier to join the California Nurses Association, it was the aggressive union's first victory outside its home state. Some say the growing number of unions pursuing RNs will weaken labor solidarity and work to providers' advantage.
Palliative/hospice care in Poland.	The first hospice in eastern Europe was the Hospicium in Krakow, which was created 10 years ago. Three years later the leading independent Polish hospice, Hospitium Pallotinum, was founded in Gdansk. This hospice helped to organize more than 20 similar groups, usually Catholic agencies which offer home care programmes. The University Palliative Care Service in the Academy of Medical Sciences in Poznan, which was created in 1988, consists of a home care team caring for 600 patients a year and has a seven-bed inpatient unit. It offers an education programme for physicians, nurses, medical and pharmacy students as well as a research programme. There is currently an academic link between the Poznan Palliative Care service and Sir Michael Sobell House in Oxford, sharing medical and nursing education in palliative care. The educational courses and conferences have been attended by international speakers offering education which will help to change the attitudes of professional health care workers and the public. We hope that the Polish Ministry of Health and Welfare and the government will be interested in establishing policies that will cover the cost of palliative care in the newly developing health care system.
