Social mobility and health related behaviours in young people.	To assess the influences related to social mobility, particularly health related behaviours, as one potential explanation for the social class variation in health among adults.
Season's greetings: adults' social contacts at the holiday season.	Close friends and family play an important role in adults' lives, but little is known about the implications of infrequent or peripheral social ties that adults maintain. Eighty-seven adults, ranging in age from 24 to 87 years (M = 51.25) provided information about their holiday card networks. Participants completed surveys for up to 25 cards that they received during one holiday season (n = 1,405 surveys completed) and provided the holiday greetings as well, if they were willing (n = 1,152 cards). Over half of the cards participants received were from individuals whom participants did not consider to be close friends or family members and whom they had not seen in over a year. Adults of all ages described emotional reactions to approximately one third of the cards they received. Younger adults tended to view their holiday greetings as a means of maintaining or building new social ties, whereas older adults were more likely to view their holiday greetings as a link to their personal past. Receiving a greater number of holiday cards and receiving cards from close social contacts were associated with increased feelings of social embeddedness. Similarities and differences between peripheral ties and close social ties are considered.
Life course influences on quality of life in early old age.	A growing literature demonstrates life course influences on health in early old age. The present paper is the first to examine whether similar processes also influence quality of life in early old age. The question is theorised in terms of structured dependency and third age, and the life course pathways by which people arrive at these destinations in later life. The issues are investigated in a unique data set that contains health and life course information on some 300 individuals mostly aged 65-75 years, enhanced in 2000 by postal survey data on quality of life. Several types of life course effect are identified at conventional levels of statistical significance. Long-term influences on quality of life, however, are less marked than those on health. Quality of life in early old age appears to be influenced primarily by current contextual factors such as material circumstances and serious health problems, with the influence of the life course limited mostly to its shaping of an individual's circumstances in later life. The implication for policy is that disadvantage during childhood and adulthood does not preclude good quality of life in early old age.
A unified middle class or two middle classes? A comparison of career strategies and intergenerational mobility strategies between teachers and managers in contemporary Hong Kong.	A debate over whether the 'service class' is a unitary middle class or is divided between professionals and managers remains unsettled. This qualitative mobility study seeks to elucidate mobility processes of how professional and managerial groups secure their advantages throughout their working lives and over generations. Using data on contemporary Hong Kong, this paper compares the career strategies and intergenerational mobility strategies of forty teachers and thirty managers. Despite employing somewhat different career strategies, managers do not seem less able than teachers to secure their advantages through their work lives. Using the same intergenerational mobility strategies, teachers and managers exploit economic, cultural, and social resources in a similar way for their children's education. So far as demographic stability over generations is concerned a unified service class is in the making.
Childhood environment, intergenerational mobility, and adult health--evidence from Swedish data.	The aim was to examine whether body height is associated with intergenerational social mobility, and to determine the importance of intergenerational mobility for adult health.
Getting a piece of the pie? The economic boom of the 1990s and declining teen birth rates in the United States.	In the United States, the 1990s was a decade of dramatic economic growth as well as a period characterized by substantial declines in teenage childbearing. This study examines whether falling teen fertility rates during the 1990s were responsive to expanding employment opportunities and whether the implementation of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunities Act (PRWORA), increasing rates of incarceration, or restrictive abortion policies may have affected this association. Fixed-effects Poisson regression models were estimated to assess the relationship between age-specific birth rates and state-specific unemployment rates from 1990 to 1999 for Black and White females aged 10-29. Falling unemployment rates in the 1990s were associated with decreased childbearing among African-American women aged 15-24, but were largely unrelated to declines in fertility for Whites. For 18-19 year-old African-Americans, the group for whom teen childbearing is most normative, our model accounted for 85% of the decrease in rates of first births. Young Black women, especially older teens, may have adjusted their reproductive behavior to take advantage of expanded labor market opportunities.
The mental health of Black Caribbean immigrants: results from the National Survey of American Life.	We examined the prevalence of psychiatric disorders among Black Caribbean immigrant ("Caribbean Black") and African American populations and the correlates of psychiatric disorders among the Caribbean Black population.
Stockholm Birth Cohort Study 1953-2003: a new tool for life-course studies.	To create a new tool for life-course studies of health outcomes as well as social outcomes.
San Sebastián: the social and political effects of sugar mill closure in Mexico.	Mexico's sugar mills face an uncertain future: the closure of San Sebastián may well presage others if the climate for sugar production on national and international levels does not improve. While the continued squeezing of small cane producers reflects processes affecting peasant agriculture generally in Mexico, and indeed beyond, the fate of the mill workers made redundant when the mill closed similarly mirrors broad tendencies in labor in both the developed and developing world under neoliberalism. Former workers fell back upon personal, family, and community resources by migrating to the U.S. or locally reconstructing livelihoods characterized by a reduction in income, security, and access to social benefits. This article reports on the impact of the mill closure on the livelihoods of former mill worker families in the community of San Sebastián and offers some observations on their responses to the situation.
Is the United States a good model for reducing social exclusion in Europe?	Advocates of U.S.-style labor market flexibility have long argued that Europe could generate jobs and lower unemployment if the continent's economies followed the example of the United States. More recently, proponents of the U.S. model have suggested that labor market deregulation also holds out the possibility of reducing the problem of "social exclusion" in Europe, primarily because unemployment is one of the worst forms of social exclusion and contributes to other forms of social marginalization. The authors review a broad range of social and economic indicators and conclude that the United States fares poorly compared with much of Europe on social measures. Meanwhile, U.S.-style flexibility has had only mixed success in improving employment outcomes, and the U.S. economy consistently provides lower levels of economic mobility than economies in Europe.
Depression and anxiety in relation to social status. A prospective epidemiologic study.	Longitudinal research in Stirling County, Atlantic Canada, indicated that during the 1950s and 1960s the prevalence of depression was significantly and persistently higher in the "low" socioeconomic status population than at other socioeconomic status levels. Anxiety was found to show a less clear picture. Incidence of depression after the study started was also higher among those who were initially in the low socioeconomic status group, supporting the view that the stress of poverty may be causally related to depression. There was also a trend for prior depression to be associated with subsequent downward social mobility, supporting the view that the concentration of depressed people at the lower end of the social hierarchy may result from handicapping aspects of the illness. Neither of these trends was statistically significant. More striking was evidence that, irrespective of socioeconomic status, depression carried a substantial risk for poor clinical course and outcome. Both depression and poverty tended to be chronic, and, accordingly, their association at the end of the study was influenced by their association at its beginning. The stability of the relationship between poverty and depression warrants the attention of caregivers and policymakers and raises new questions about strategies for the study of causal sequences.
Life-course socioeconomic position and type 2 diabetes mellitus: The Framingham Offspring Study.	Evidence is lacking on whether the duration and timing of low socioeconomic position (SEP) across a person's life course may be associated with incidence of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D). The authors' objectives were to investigate associations between cumulative SEP and the incidence of T2D in the Framingham Offspring Study (n = 1,893; 52% women; mean baseline age = 34 years). Pooled logistic regression analyses demonstrated that age-adjusted cumulative SEP was associated with T2D in women (for low vs. high cumulative SEP, odds ratio (OR) = 1.92, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.08, 3.42). Age-adjusted analyses for young-adulthood SEP (7.85 for ≤12 vs. >16 years of education, OR = 2.84, 95% CI: 1.03), active professional life SEP (for laborer vs. professional/executive/supervisory/technical occupations, OR = 2.40, 95% CI: 1.05, 5.47), and social-mobility frameworks (for declining life-course SEP, OR = 2.99, 95% CI: 1.39, 6.44; for stable low vs. stable high life-course SEP, OR = 1.85, 95% CI: 1.02, 3.35) all demonstrated associations between low SEP and T2D incidence in women. No association was observed between childhood SEP and T2D in women for father's education (some high school or less vs. any postsecondary education, OR = 1.26, 95% CI: 0.72, 2.22). In men, there was little evidence of associations between life-course SEP and T2D incidence. These findings suggest that cumulative SEP is inversely associated with incidence of T2D in women, and that this association may be primarily due to the women's educational levels and occupations.
The lifespan consequences of early life stress.	Early life stress (ELS), an experience of severe stress due for example to parental loss, abuse or neglect during the childhood years, may have profound long-term effects on the individual's physiology and psychology. Here we review the findings of the Helsinki Birth Cohort Study 1934-44 (n=13,345), of whom approximately 14% were temporarily separated from both their parents due to child evacuations in World War II. The children were evacuated from Finland, unaccompanied by their parents, to other countries in Scandinavia (Sweden and Denmark) at the average age of 4.7 years (SD=2.4 years) and for an average period of 1.7 years (SD=1.0 years). Information on these separations for each member of the HBCS was derived from the Finnish National Archives. We found significant effects of ELS on psychiatric morbidity and mortality, intellectual ability, stress reactivity, reproductive history, and inter-generational social mobility.
Does occupational mobility influence health among working women? Comparing objective and subjective measures of work trajectories.	Occupational mobility is highly valued in American society, but is it consequential to women's health? Previous studies have yielded inconsistent results, but most measured occupational mobility by identifying transitions across occupational categories. Drawing from cumulative inequality theory, this study (1) compares objective and subjective measures of work trajectories and (2) examines the contributions of each to self-rated health. With 36 years of data from the National Longitudinal Survey of Mature Women (1967-2003), growth curve models are used to estimate the effects of middle-aged work trajectories on health among 2,503 U.S. women. Work trajectories as measured by the Duncan Socioeconomic Index predict health, but not after adjustment for perceived work trajectories and status characteristics. The findings reveal that subjective measures of occupational mobility provide important information for assessing health consequences of work transitions and that downward occupational mobility in middle age is deleterious to women's health in later life.
Rising stars and sinking ships: consequences of status momentum.	Differences in rank are a ubiquitous feature of social life. Moving beyond the traditional static view of social hierarchy, five studies spanning multiple contexts examined how intertemporal changes in rank influenced people's status judgments. When final rank was held constant, people, products, and institutions were judged as higher status when they had arrived at this position by ascending, rather than descending, the hierarchy; moreover, these judgments affected downstream pricing recommendations, willingness to pay for products, and influence accepted from others. This impact of rank history on status judgments was accounted for by expectations of future status and moderated by the involvement of the self: The self and others are afforded an equivalent status boost for ascending to a given rank; however, only the self is pardoned the status tax that is levied on others for descending to the same rank. The theoretical utility of a dynamic approach to social hierarchy is discussed. 
Social effects of fractures of the neck of the femur.	One-hundred-and-five patients were visited at home one year or more after they had been treated for proximal femoral fractures to assess the extent to which their social independence had been affected by the incident. Since the accident 25% had become more dependent. The principal factors contributing to this outcome included established dependence, great age at the time of injury, and a poor clinical result. The implications for social services and community care of preventing social impairment justify a more comprehensive investigation. The need for close co-operation between orthopaedic surgeons and geriatricians, already widely acknowledged, is further emphasized.
Education and eminence in British medicine.	The educational background of eminent members of the British medical profession was examined by recourse to Who's Who. Substantial differences in background were found among the various medical specialties. Members of specialties enjoying high prestige within the profession-physicians, surgeons-were more likely than other members of the sample to have been to an English school as opposed to one in Scotland, Wales, or Northern Ireland, and to a headmasters' conference school as opposed to a grammar school. Educational background was also found to relate to the aspect of the patient's body on which specialists normally worked. Specialists coming from English headmasters' conference schools were more likely than others to work on living bodies rather than dead bodies or parts of bodies, on the head rather than on the lower trunk, on male bodies rather than female bodies, and on the body's surface rather than its inside.
Re-thinking the analysis of intergenerational social mobility: a comment on John W. Fox's "Social class, mental illness, and social mobility".	The method of analyzing social mobility described by Fox (1990) is flawed in its adjustment for between-group differences in destination status when estimating the extent of the mentally ill's mobility as compared with the general population. Use of the recommended model with hypothetical data sets resulted in a significant finding when no overall upward or downward mobility occurred, and a non-significant result when the downward mobility of a psychotic group was contrived to be massive. An alternative model for the test of group differences in mobility is suggested within the framework of log-linear analysis commended by Fox (1990). This method indicated significantly more downward and less upward mobility in mentally ill groups when data from four studies were re-analyzed. We conclude that the weight of evidence from published studies supports the notion of social selection-drift, although this does not imply the inconsequence of social factors in the aetiology of schizophrenia (and other psychoses) or in its prognosis and occupational consequences.
Ethnic stratification in northwest China: occupational differences between Han Chinese and national minorities in Xinjiang, 1982-1990.	The debate on market reforms and social stratification in China has paid very little attention to China's ethnic minorities. We explored rising occupational stratification by ethnicity in the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. Analyses of census data from 1982 and 1990 pointed to educational disadvantages faced by ethinic minorities as the most plausible explanation for the change. Multivariate analysis revealed a significant increase in the effect of education on high-status occupational attainment but no change in the effect of ethnicity. Net of education, ethnic differences in high-status occupational attainment were negligible. In contrast, large ethnic differences in manufacturing and agricultural occupations persisted after education and geography were statistically controlled.
