Corporate welfare: the third stage of welfare in the United States.	Corporate involvement in social welfare represents a third stage in the evolution of welfare institutions in the United States, following the voluntary sector and the welfare state. An examination of the largest health and welfare corporations reveals rapid growth and consolidation in all markets--nursing homes, hospital management, health maintenance organizations, child care, and home care. The author considers the implications of continued expansion of corporate welfare for social workers and their clients.
The privatization of the welfare state: a review.	Although the privatization of social services is not new, its purpose, form, and content have changed over time. Under the Reagan Administration, it has meant a greater role for private enterprise in a scaled-down welfare state. Intervention in the economy was historically conceived to modify the market in behalf of social justice. In contrast, privatization channels public dollars into private hands, strengthens the two-class welfare state, and reproduces the inequalities of the free market.
Trends in Australian rehabilitation: reviving its humanitarian core.	This paper discusses how vocational rehabilitation (VR) in Australia has been captured by economic concerns, leading to its failure to deliver promised outcomes. Both public and private sector VR in Australia have undergone significant changes over the last two decades. The demise of non-profit and socially-based rehabilitation in favour of fixed funding models (e.g., managed care or case-base funding), coupled with the growing emphasis on cost containment has placed many VR providers in an unfamiliar environment dominated by bureaucratic, legal, economic and political imperatives. Although it was expected that VR would address rising injury costs, its inability to do so has jeopardized its existence.
Perestroika--in medicine too]	The article criticizes the one-dimensionality of natural science and the one-way concept of causality in medicine. The crisis in medical practice and health economy is considered in the light of an outdated and rigid health ideology with parallels in the "scientific" dogmas that have now been discarded in Eastern Europe. In this article we try to point a way out of this unfortunate situation: how would a change of paradigm affect clinical practice, health ideology and our concept of social policy?
Commoditization and oppression: a systems approach to understanding the economic dynamics of modes of oppression.	Commoditization is a generalized Darwinian selection pressure in economic evolution driven by profit- and efficiency-seeking in the investment of key resources. By winnowing noncommodity opportunities to satisfy human needs, commoditization distorts development in ways that intensify negative social outcomes experienced by oppressed groups and undermines the possibility for sustainable development. When market logic dominates the investment of financial capital, energy, raw materials, human attention, labor, and creativity, market goods with traits associated with commodities are fully developed while nonmarket goods lacking those traits are systematically underdeveloped. Analysis of the traits of commodities explains the unsustainable development or maldevelopment that disproportionately affects those who are dependent on or who highly value important nonmarket relationships. Oppression theory is addressed with specific examples. A generalized form of oppression is theorized that systematically stunts the imagination and creativity required to meet contemporary environmental crises.
Democratizing economics: pluralism as a path toward sustainability.	Climate scientists point to a number of unsustainable trends concerning the environment and natural resources. There is also ongoing concern about poverty reduction, labor rights, and other social aspects of sustainable development. Growing numbers argue that change is required, but still at issue is the extent of change and how to facilitate it. In this paper, the focus is on the dominant interpretive schema of influential actors with respect to ideas about science in society, paradigms in economics, and ideological orientations. The authors argue that the monopolistic position of neoclassical economics at university departments of economics in different parts of the world, and the spread of its associated technocratic logic within broader policy arenas, should be abandoned in favor of a more ideologically open attitude that facilitates discussion and debate within academia, public policy, and in civil society more generally. In a sense, economics requires "democratization" with implications for approaches to sustainability monitoring, accounting, and the assessment of projects and policies. The paper provides suggestions for developing sustainability assessment technologies and practices that take pluralism seriously.
Health and income: a robust comparison of Canada and the US.	This paper uses sequential stochastic dominance procedures to compare the joint distribution of health and income across space and time. It is the first application of which we are aware of methods to compare multidimensional distributions of income and health using procedures that are robust to aggregation techniques. The paper's approach is more general than comparisons of health gradients and does not require the estimation of health equivalent incomes. We illustrate the approach by contrasting Canada and the US using comparable data. Canada dominates the US over the bottom part of the bi-dimensional distribution of health and income, though not generally over the uni-dimensional distributions of health or income. The paper also finds that welfare for both Canadians and Americans has not unambiguously improved during the last decade over the joint distribution of income and health, in spite of the fact that the uni-dimensional distributions of income have clearly improved during that period.
Allocation of services in England: facts and myths about the equity and efficiency of social care agencies.	The growing pressure of demands on resources has focused attention on efficiency improvement. The consequence is the growing influence of a new efficiency-focused managerialism whose promise is to reduce what is assumed to be widespread and large inefficiency by applying the nostre of management theorists. The paper first discusses evidence about the nature and extent of various forms of inefficiency in the long-term social care of the elderly, and whether the prescriptions of the new managerialists take adequate account of it, showing that new managerialist argument has overstated (A) the extent to which community service resources are allocated to those benefiting little from them and ignored the large pool of unmet need and (B) the degree to which variations in facility costs are due to agency-wide inefficiency. The paper then reviews evidence about new organisational and practice models based on field clinical insight suggesting that great gains in equity and efficiency would indeed be feasible, but that these could be made only over time as personnel are trained to implement and further develop the exemplar models.
Prevalence and social impact of rheumatic diseases in Finland.	The prevalence and social impact of rheumatic diseases as established from interview surveys and disability pension statistics have markedly increased in Finland. This is probably due to a change in disease experience and social legislation rather than to an increase in the disability caused by these diseases. The prevalence of disability, rather than that of the disease, would be a preferable basis for monitoring the state of public health.
Why do levels of human welfare vary among nations?	This article investigates what factors explain the wide differences in human welfare among nations. Applying the theory of human need developed by Doyal and Gough, the authors construct a series of indicators of need satisfaction and use these to map contemporary national levels of welfare. They criticize past cross-national studies of welfare outcomes for using a single index of welfare, usually the Physical Quality of Life Index. A comprehensive model of national differences in need satisfaction is then developed. Seven theories are deployed and are tested against the evidence using path analysis, which permits different causal patterns to be simultaneously considered. The authors conclude that per capita incomes are only one of several factors explaining cross-national variations in need satisfaction: the degree of economic and political independence, the extent of democracy and human rights, the capacity and dispositions of the state, and relative gender equality all positively and independently affect a nation's level of welfare. Economic development alone cannot guarantee social development.
Increasing consolidation in healthcare markets: what are the antitrust policy implications?	To discuss the implications of the rapid transformation of the healthcare financing and delivery system for competition, social welfare, and antitrust policy.
