Gene expression profiles of sodium-dependent vitamin C transporters in mice after alcohol consumption.	Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is a serious liver problem in western countries. Our previous study has demonstrated that vitamin C plays a protective role in ALD. The vitamin C homeostasis is tightly regulated by sodium-dependent vitamin C transporters (SVCTs) 1 and 2. But the role of two SVCTs in ALD is less understood. In this study, we examined the expression patterns of two SVCTs in mice after alcohol consumption. Our results suggested that alcohol consumption obviously increased the expression of two SVCTs in liver and SVCT1 in kidney and intestine, which is important for vitamin C absorption. Vitamin C supplement increased the sera vitamin C content and ameliorated the symptom of ALD. Intestinal absorption and renal re-absorption mediated by SVCT1 are key factors to increase the sera vitamin C content after alcohol consumption. We proposed that both reactive oxygen species and low vitamin C concentration regulate the expression of SVCTs, and the protective role of vitamin C is mediated by suppressing the stability of hypoxia-inducible factor-1α. Thus, our study is significant for the understanding of vitamin C homeostasis in ALD and for better use of other antioxidants in ALD therapy. 
Regulation of embryonic neurotransmitter and tyrosine hydroxylase protein levels by ascorbic acid.	Ascorbic acid (ascorbate) is required to recycle tetrahydrobiopterin, which is necessary for neurotransmitter synthesis by the rate-limiting enzymes tyrosine and tryptophan hydroxylases. We sought to determine whether ascorbate might regulate embryonic brain cortex monoamine synthesis utilizing transgenic mouse models with varying intracellular ascorbate levels.
Orally administrated ascorbic acid suppresses neuronal damage and modifies expression of SVCT2 and GLUT1 in the brain of diabetic rats with cerebral ischemia-reperfusion.	Diabetes mellitus is known to exacerbate cerebral ischemic injury. In the present study, we investigated antiapoptotic and anti-inflammatory effects of oral supplementation of ascorbic acid (AA) on cerebral injury caused by middle cerebral artery occlusion and reperfusion (MCAO/Re) in rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes. We also evaluated the effects of AA on expression of sodium-dependent vitamin C transporter 2 (SVCT2) and glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1) after MCAO/Re in the brain. The diabetic state markedly aggravated MCAO/Re-induced cerebral damage, as assessed by infarct volume and edema. Pretreatment with AA (100 mg/kg, p.o.) for two weeks significantly suppressed the exacerbation of damage in the brain of diabetic rats. AA also suppressed the production of superoxide radical, activation of caspase-3, and expression of proinflammatory cytokines (tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-1β) in the ischemic penumbra. Immunohistochemical staining revealed that expression of SVCT2 was upregulated primarily in neurons and capillary endothelial cells after MCAO/Re in the nondiabetic cortex, accompanied by an increase in total AA (AA + dehydroascorbic acid) in the tissue, and that these responses were suppressed in the diabetic rats. AA supplementation to the diabetic rats restored these responses to the levels of the nondiabetic rats. Furthermore, AA markedly upregulated the basal expression of GLUT1 in endothelial cells of nondiabetic and diabetic cortex, which did not affect total AA levels in the cortex. These results suggest that daily intake of AA attenuates the exacerbation of cerebral ischemic injury in a diabetic state, which may be attributed to anti-apoptotic and anti-inflammatory effects via the improvement of augmented oxidative stress in the brain. AA supplementation may protect endothelial function against the exacerbated ischemic oxidative injury in the diabetic state and improve AA transport through SVCT2 in the cortex.
