Neonatal and adult rabbit renal brush border membrane vesicle solute reflection coefficients.	The interaction between solute and water in epithelial transport is represented by the solute reflection coefficient. Because the osmotic water transport process changes in the rabbit proximal tubule during maturation, there is a potential for the solute reflection coefficients to also undergo maturational changes. In the present study, we directly examined solute reflection coefficients in neonatal and adult brush border membrane vesicles (BBMV) using the stop-flow light-scattering technique. Reflection coefficients for NaCl, KCl, NaHCO3 and urea were found to be identical in the neonatal and adult BBMV and were not different from 1. Thus, although the water transport pathway undergoes changes in the proximal tubule during maturation, there is no evidence for changes in solute and water interaction. Because the reflection coefficients are not different from 1, there is no evidence for solvent drag in the proximal tubule apical membrane in either the neonatal or adult tubule.
Spectroscopic characterization of two soluble transducers from the Archaeon Halobacterium salinarum.	In the present study, structural aspects of the two soluble transducers, HtrX and HtrXI, from the archaeon H. salinarum have been examined using UV circular dichroism and steady-state fluorescence spectroscopies. Circular dichroism (CD) data indicate that both HtrX and HtrXI exhibit salt-dependent protein folding. Under low-ionic-strength conditions (0.2 M NaCl or KCl) the CD spectra of HtrXI is similar to that of the Gdn-HCl- or urea-denatured forms and is indicative of random coil structure. In contrast, the CD spectrum of HtrX under low-ionic-strength conditions contains roughly 85% alpha-helical character, indicating a significant degree of folding. Addition of NaCl or KCl to solutions of HtrX or HtrXI results in CD features consistent with predominately alpha-helical character (>95%) for both proteins. In addition, the transition points (i.e., ionic strengths at which the protein converts from random coil to alpha-helical character) are quite distinct and dependent upon the type of salt present (i.e., either NaCl or KCl). Accessibility of tryptophan residues to the solvent was also examined for both HtrX and HtrXI in both folded and unfolded states using KI quenching. The Stem-Volmer constants obtained suggest that the tryptophans (Trp35 in HtrX and both Trp47 and Trp74 in HtrXI) are partially exposed to the solvent, indicating that they are located near the surface of the protein in all three cases. Furthermore, fluorescence quenching with the single Trp mutants Trp74AIa and Trp47AIa of HtrXI indicates different environments for these two residues.
A recessive Arabidopsis mutant that grows photoautotrophically under salt stress shows enhanced active oxygen detoxification.	Mutagenized Arabidopsis seedlings (ecotype Columbia) were screened for the ability to grow photoautotrophically on solid medium containing 200 mM NaCl. A novel mutant line, designated pst1 (for photoautotrophic salt tolerance1), was obtained. There were no significant differences between pst1 and wild-type plants with regard to their ability to induce proline as an osmoregulatory solute. In addition, the content of monovalent cations in pst1 plants grown with or without salt stress was equal to that in the wild type. We observed that light, even at moderate intensities, increased the effects of salt stress on wild-type plants. The pst1 seedlings were nearly 10 times more tolerant to methyl viologen than were wild-type seedlings. We also found that the activities of the active oxygen scavengers superoxide dismutase and ascorbate peroxidase were enhanced significantly in pst1 plants. The pst1 plants also were tolerant to other stresses, such as high light intensity and toxic monovalent cations. The recessive nature of the pst1 mutation indicates that the potential for salt-stress tolerance is blocked in wild-type Arabidopsis.
nhaG Na(+)/H(+) antiporter gene of Bacillus subtilis ATCC9372, which is missing in the complete genome sequence of strain 168, and properties of the antiporter.	We cloned a gene which enabled Escherichia coli mutant host cells lacking all of the major Na(+)/H(+) antiporters to grow in the presence of 0.2 M NaCl from chromosomal DNA of Bacillus subtilis ATCC9372. An Na(+)/H(+) antiport activity was observed with membrane vesicles prepared from E. coli cells possessing the cloned gene, but not with vesicles from the host cells. Lithium ion was also a substrate for the antiporter. We sequenced the cloned DNA and found one open reading frame (designated nhaG) preceded by a promoter-like sequence and a Shine-Dalgarno sequence, and followed by a terminator-like sequence. The deduced amino acid sequence of NhaG suggested that it consisted of 524 residues and that the calculated molecular mass was 58.1 kDa. None of the bacterial Na(+)/H(+) antiporters so far reported, except NhaP of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and SynNhaP (NhaS1) of Synechocystis sp., showed significant sequence similarity with the NhaG. However, the NhaP, the SynNhaP, animal NHEs (Na(+)/H(+) exchangers), and some hypothetical Na(+)/H(+) antiporters of several organisms showed significant sequence similarities with the NhaG. Interestingly, the entire DNA region corresponding to the nhaG gene is missing in the reported complete genome sequence of B. subtilis strain 168. We detected a band that hybridized with the nhaG DNA in chromosomal DNA from B. subtilis ATCC9372 but not with that from strain 168. The missing DNA region (1,774 base pairs) is sandwiched by two identical sequences, TTTTCTT.
Isolation and characterization of a novel leaf-inhabiting osmo-, salt-, and alkali-tolerant Yarrowia lipolytica yeast strain.	Salt-excreting leaves of Atriplex halimus plants harvested in the central Negev Highlands of Israel were screened for yeasts inhabiting their surfaces. Several aerobic, moderately salt- and alkali-tolerant yeasts were isolated. One of the isolates (tentatively designated S-8) was identified as Yarrowia lipolytica (Wick.) van der Walt and Arx, on the basis of its morphological, biochemical/physiological characteristics, and of quantitative chemotaxonomic and molecular marker analyses. However, the strain is distinguished from the known members of the type Y. lipolytica strain by its pronounced osmo-, salt-, and pH tolerance. Cells displayed a unique capacity to grow over a wide pH range (from 3.5 to 11.5) with a pH optimum at 4.5 to 7.5. It is proposed that the S-8 strain be assigned to a single Y. lipolytica species as its anamorpha, or as a new variety, Y. lipolytica var. alkalitolerance. The ecophysiological properties and biotechnological potentials of the new strain are discussed.
Transcriptional responses during outgrowth of Bacillus subtilis endospores.	The Bacillus subtilis 168 genome contains an array of alternative sigma factors, many of which play important roles in reprogramming expression during stress and sporulation. The role of the different sigma factors during outgrowth, when the germinated endospore is converted back to a vegetative cell, is less well characterized. The activity of the alternative sigma factors sigmaB, sigmaD and sigmaH during endospore outgrowth was analysed by Northern blotting and lacZ reporter assays. While sigmaD and sigmaH were transcriptionally active during outgrowth, sigmaB-dependent transcription was not observed until after the first cell division, when growth slowed. Using an IPTG-controllable copy of sigA, an optimal level of expression was required to maintain growth rate at the end of outgrowth. The genes encoding the putative extracytoplasmic function (ECF) sigma factors sigmaI, sigmaV, sigmaW, sigmaZ and YlaC were insertionally inactivated using pMUTIN4. These strains, together with sigM and sigX mutants, were tested to determine their role and measure their expression during endospore outgrowth. Transcripts or beta-galactosidase activity were observed for each of the ECF sigma factors early after germination. With the exception of MJH003 (sigM), which showed an exacerbated salt stress defect, inactivation of the ECF sigma factor genes did not affect outgrowth in the conditions tested.
Inhibition of COX-2 counteracts the effects of diuretics in rats.	It is well established that the diuretic- and renin-stimulated effects of loop diuretics can be attenuated by nonselective cyclooxygenase inhibitors. Since it is yet unclear which of the isoforms of cyclooxygenases, COX-1 and COX-2, is relevant in this context, our study aimed to determine the effects of selective COX-2 inhibition on the renal effects of the loop diuretic furosemide, as well as the diuretic hydrochlorothiazide, which acts on the distal tubule.
Loss of the NHE2 Na(+)/H(+) exchanger has no apparent effect on diarrheal state of NHE3-deficient mice.	The expression of NHE2 and NHE3 on intestinal-brush border membranes suggests that both Na(+)/H(+) exchangers serve absorptive functions. Studies with knockout mice showed that the loss of NHE3, but not NHE2, causes diarrhea, demonstrating that NHE3 is the major absorptive exchanger and indicating that any remaining absorptive capacity contributed by NHE2 is not sufficient to compensate fully for the loss of NHE3. To test the hypothesis that NHE2 provides partial compensation for the diarrheal state of NHE3-deficient mice, we crossed doubly heterozygous mice carrying null mutations in the Nhe2 and Nhe3 genes and analyzed the phenotypes of their offspring. The additional loss of NHE2 in NHE3-deficient mice caused no apparent reduction in viability, no further impairment of systemic acid-base status or increase in aldosterone levels, and no apparent worsening of the diarrheal state. These in vivo phenotypic correlates of the absorptive defect suggest that the NaCl, HCO, and fluid absorption that is dependent on apical Na(+)/H(+) exchange is due overwhelmingly to the activity of NHE3, with little contribution from NHE2.
Thermal inactivation of glucose oxidase. Mechanism and stabilization using additives.	Thermal inactivation of glucose oxidase (GOD; beta-d-glucose: oxygen oxidoreductase), from Aspergillus niger, followed first order kinetics both in the absence and presence of additives. Additives such as lysozyme, NaCl, and K2SO4 increased the half-life of the enzyme by 3.5-, 33.4-, and 23.7-fold respectively, from its initial value at 60 degrees C. The activation energy increased from 60.3 kcal mol-1 to 72.9, 76.1, and 88.3 kcal mol-1, whereas the entropy of activation increased from 104 to 141, 147, and 184 cal x mol-1 x deg-1 in the presence of 7.1 x 10-5 m lysozyme, 1 m NaCl, and 0.2 m K2SO4, respectively. The thermal unfolding of GOD in the temperature range of 25-90 degrees C was studied using circular dichroism measurements at 222, 274, and 375 nm. Size exclusion chromatography was employed to follow the state of association of enzyme and dissociation of FAD from GOD. The midpoint for thermal inactivation of residual activity and the dissociation of FAD was 59 degrees C, whereas the corresponding midpoint for loss of secondary and tertiary structure was 62 degrees C. Dissociation of FAD from the holoenzyme was responsible for the thermal inactivation of GOD. The irreversible nature of inactivation was caused by a change in the state of association of apoenzyme. The dissociation of FAD resulted in the loss of secondary and tertiary structure, leading to the unfolding and nonspecific aggregation of the enzyme molecule because of hydrophobic interactions of side chains. This confirmed the critical role of FAD in structure and activity. Cysteine oxidation did not contribute to the nonspecific aggregation. The stabilization of enzyme by NaCl and lysozyme was primarily the result of charge neutralization. K2SO4 enhanced the thermal stability by primarily strengthening the hydrophobic interactions and made the holoenzyme a more compact dimeric structure.
Halobacillus salinus sp. nov., isolated from a salt lake on the coast of the East Sea in Korea.	A Gram-positive, rod-shaped, endospore-forming, halophilic bacterium (strain HSL-3(T)) was isolated from a salt lake near Hwajinpo beach on the East Sea in Korea and was subjected to a polyphasic taxonomic study. Strain HSL-3(T) grew optimally in the presence of 2-10% (w/v) NaCl. Strain HSL-3(T) showed poor growth in the absence of NaCl and grew in the presence of less than 23% NaCl. The cell wall peptidoglycan type of strain HSL-3(T) was A4beta based on L-Orn-D-Asp. The predominant menaquinone found in strain HSL-3(T) was menaquinone-7 (MK-7). Strain HSL-3(T) had a cellular fatty acid profile containing large amounts of branched fatty acids; the major fatty acids were anteiso-C(15 : 0), iso-C(15 : 0) and iso-C(16 : 0). The DNA G + C content of strain HSL-3(T) was 45 mol%. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rDNA sequences showed that strain HSL-3(T) falls within the radiation of the cluster comprising Halobacillus species. Strain HSL-3(T) exhibited levels of 16S rDNA similarity of 97.4-98.4% to the type strains of Halobacillus species. Levels of DNA-DNA relatedness between strain HSL-3(T) and the type strains of all validly named Halobacillus species were in the range 7.3-9.2%. On the basis of phenotypic and phylogenetic data and the genomic distinctiveness, strain HSL-3(T) (= KCCM 41590(T) = JCM 11546(T)) should be placed in the genus Halobacillus as the type strain of a novel species, for which the name Halobacillus salinus sp. nov. is proposed.
Marinilactibacillus psychrotolerans gen. nov., sp. nov., a halophilic and alkaliphilic marine lactic acid bacterium isolated from marine organisms in temperate and subtropical areas of Japan.	A novel marine lactic acid rod bacterium has been described for eight strains isolated from living and decomposing marine organisms collected from temperate and subtropical areas of Japan. The isolates were Gram-positive, catalase-negative, non-sporulating and motile with peritrichous flagella. They were slightly halophilic, highly halotolerant and alkaliphilic; the optimum NaCl concentration for growth was 2.0-3.75% (w/v) with a range from 0 to 17.0-20.5% (depending on the strain); the optimum pH was between 8.0 and 9.5 with a range from 6.0 to 10.0. They were psychrotolerant, growing well at -1.8 degrees C with a maximum at 40-45 degrees C and the optimum at 37-40 degrees C. Lactate yields were 87-100% per consumed glucose; the residual products were formate, acetate and ethanol with a molar ratio of approximately 2 : 1 : 1. The product composition was markedly affected by the pH of fermentation medium; at higher pH, the yield of lactate decreased (60-65% at pH 9.0) and that of other products increased conversely. The cell-wall peptidoglycan type was type A4beta, Orn-D-Glu, whereas that of the genus Alkalibacterium, the phylogenetically closest lactic acid bacterium, was type A4beta, Orn-D-Asp. The major cellular fatty acids were C16 : 0, C16 : 1delta9, C18 : 0 and C18 : 1delta9 (oleic acid). The G + C content of the DNA was 34.6-36.2 mol%. The eight isolates were phenotypically homogeneous and formed a single genomic species. The 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis indicated that the isolates constituted an independent phylogenetic lineage within the radiation of lactic acid bacteria with 96.2% similarity to the genus Alkalibacterium. The secondary structure and the nucleotide sequence of the V6 region of the 16S rRNA were characteristic of the organism among other related lactic acid genera. On the bases of phenotypic and phylogenetic distinctness, the organism was proposed to belong to a new genus and species, Marinilactibacillus psychrotolerans gen. nov., sp. nov. The type strain, M13-2(T) (G + C = 36.2 mol%), has been deposited in the IAM, NBRC, NCIMB and NRIC culture collections as IAM 14980(T), NBRC 100002(T), NCIMB 13873(T) and NRIC 0510(T), respectively.
Spirochaeta americana sp. nov., a new haloalkaliphilic, obligately anaerobic spirochaete isolated from soda Mono Lake in California.	A novel, obligately anaerobic, mesophilic, haloalkaliphilic spirochaete, strain ASpG1(T), was isolated from sediments of the alkaline, hypersaline Mono Lake in California, USA. Cells of the Gram-negative strain were motile and spirochaete-shaped with sizes of 0.2-0.22 x 8-18 microm. Growth of the strain was observed between 10 and 44 degrees C (optimum 37 degrees C), in 2-12% (w/v) NaCl (optimum 3% NaCl) and between pH 8 and 10.5 (optimum pH 9.5). The novel strain was strictly alkaliphilic, required high concentrations of carbonates in the medium and was capable of utilizing D-glucose, fructose, maltose, sucrose, starch and D-mannitol. End products of glucose fermentation were H2, acetate, ethanol and formate. Strain ASpG(T) was resistant to kanamycin and rifampicin, but sensitive to gentamicin, tetracycline and chloramphenicol. The G + C content of its DNA was 58.5 mol%. DNA-DNA hybridization analysis of strain ASpG1(T) with its most closely related species, Spirochaeta alkalica Z-7491(T), revealed a hybridization value of only 48.7%. On the basis of its physiological and molecular properties, strain ASpG1(T) appears to represent a novel species of the genus Spirochaeta, for which the name Spirochaeta americana is proposed (type strain ASpG1(T) =ATCC BAA-392(T) = DSM 14872(T)).
Glycerol dehydrogenase, encoded by gldB is essential for osmotolerance in Aspergillus nidulans.	We have characterized the Aspergillus nidulans gldB gene encoding a NADP+-dependent glycerol dehydrogenase. A basal expression level was observed for gldB, which increased significantly under conditions of hyper-osmotic shock (1 M NaCl). Growth of strains in which gldB was disrupted was severely reduced on plates containing 1% glucose and 1 M NaCl, but these strains were able to grow on plates containing 1 M NaCl and 1% glycerol, arabitol, mannitol or erythritol. Uptake of these polyols compensated for the inability of the gldB disruptants to produce glycerol. Presence of 1% glucose in these plates prevented growth restoration by all the polyols tested with the exemption of glycerol, indicating that uptake of mannitol, arabitol and erythritol is subject to glucose repression, whereas uptake of glycerol is significantly less or not repressed. No intracellular glycerol dehydrogenase activity could be detected in the gldB disruption strains. Intracellular glycerol levels in these strains were strongly decreased compared to wild type, whereas intracellular mannitol, erythritol and arabitol levels were increased. Conidia of the gldB disruption strain did not accumulate glycerol upon germination in glucose media with or without 1 M NaCl and germ tube emergence was significantly delayed in this strain in the presence of 1 M NaCl in comparison to the wild type. These data indicate that gldB is essential for osmotolerance in A. nidulans and that the pathways for glycerol biosynthesis under osmotic stress differ between yeast and filamentous fungi.
Taxonomic homogeneity of a salt-tolerant lactic acid bacteria isolated from shoyu mash.	Forty-seven salt-tolerant lactic acid bacteria, which had been isolated from different places and grown in 15% NaCl, were examined to assess their taxonomic heterogeneity. Among the isolates, 42 were isolated from shoyu mash during the acid fermentation phase, 2 were from miso and 3 were from anchovy pickles. All isolates were identified as Tetragenococcus halophilus on the basis of DNA relatedness values. We further examined 102 phenotypic characteristics of them. The isolates exhibited differences in only 16, supporting the conclusion obtained from the DNA relatedness analysis.
The physical properties of conventional and resin-modified glass-ionomer dental cements stored in saliva, proprietary acidic beverages, saline and water.	Specimens of three conventional and one resin-modified glass-ionomer cement were prepared for both compressive strength and biaxial flexure strength determination. They were stored either in neutral media (water, saline, unstimulated whole saliva or stimulated parotid saliva) or in acidic beverages (apple juice, orange juice or Coca-Cola) for time periods ranging from 1 day to 1 year. In neutral media, the compressive and biaxial flexural strengths of all cements studied showed similar results, with significant increases apparent in compressive strengths at 6 months and which continued to 1 year, but no significant differences between the media; and no significant differences with time for biaxial flexure strength in all media. These findings show that interactions of these cements with saliva, which are known to result in deposition of calcium and phosphate, do not affect strength. Results for specimens stored in Coca-Cola were the same as for those stored in neutral media. By contrast, in orange and apple juice specimens underwent severe erosion resulting in dissolution of the conventional glass-ionomers after 3-6 months, and/or significant loss of strength at 1-3 months. Erosion of the resin-modified glass-ionomer, Vitremer, led to a significant reduction in strength, but not in dissolution, even after 12 months. The chelating carboxylic acids in these fruit juices were assumed to be responsible for these effects.
Cultivar-specific seedling vigor and expression of a putative oxalate oxidase germin-like protein in sugar beet (Beta vulgaris L.).	For genetic screening and breeding purposes, an in vitro germination system that reflects relative field emergence potential was used to screen for germination-enhancing and stress-induced genes from germinating seedlings from two varieties of sugar beet. Three full-length germin-like protein (GLP) gene classes were recovered from stress-germinated seedlings of a superior emerging variety. GLP gene expression, oxalate oxidase protein activity, the H(2)O(2) content of stressed seedlings, but not catalase activity, were induced by stress germination conditions (e.g. excess water, NaCl, mannitol, or oxalate) in a good emerging hybrid and were not induced in a poor emerging variety. Only one of the three germin-like protein genes ( BvGer165) was differentially regulated, and was induced only in the good emerger. Hydrogen peroxide promoted germination and partially compensated solute-depressed germination percentages. Unlike other solute recovery by hydrogen peroxide regimes, recovery in oxalic acid plus H(2)O(2) was cultivar-independent. A block in oxalate metabolism is postulated to contribute to lower germination under stress in the lower emerging variety. Selection for stress-induced germin expression, or for down-stream targets, presents the first direct target to enable breeding for improved field emergence of sugar beet.
Partial displacement of histone H1 from chromatin is required before it can be phosphorylated by mitotic H1 kinase in vitro.	The massive nonselective and reversible phosphorylation of histone H1 during mitosis is a universal phenomenon among eukaryotes. The growth-associated kinase responsible for this phosphorylation is identical to the maturation promoting factor, a key regulator of the cell cycle. Here we showed that growth-associated kinase, isolated from mitotic HeLa cells which were capable of phosphorylating HeLa H1 in vitro with high activity and mostly at the same sites phosphorylated during mitosis in vivo (assayed by two-dimensional analysis of tryptic phosphopeptides), did not significantly phosphorylate chromatin-bound or nuclear H1 in vitro. Its inability to phosphorylate chromatin-bound H1 did not change when the amount of kinase was increased or the incubation was prolonged. The resistance of chromatin-bound H1 to phosphorylation did not result from chromatin aggregation. Rapid phosphorylation of H1 in vitro, as well as in a nuclear system, was restored when NaCl concentrations were raised above 200 mM where H1:DNA interactions are weakened. At 300 mM NaCl, chromatin-bound H1 was phosphorylated in a subset of the sites observed for free H1 phosphorylated in vitro. These results suggest that active displacement of H1 from chromatin DNA may take place before H1 can be fully phosphorylated during mitosis.
Purification and properties of DNA topoisomerase I from broccoli.	We have purified a topoisomerase activity from broccoli (Brassica oleracea var. italica) to near homogeneity. The enzyme is an 80 kDa monomer as judged by gel filtration chromatography and SDS gel electrophoresis, though it may represent a proteolytic fragment of a larger protein. The enzyme is capable of removing both negative and positive supercoils in steps of one, does not absolutely require Mg2+, is only very weakly stimulated by NaCl, is inhibited by camptothecin, and cross-reacts with an antibody directed against human DNA topoisomerase I. These properties identify the enzyme as a eukaryotic type I topoisomerase.
Effect of salt and osmotic stress upon expression of the ethylene receptor ETR1 in Arabidopsis thaliana.	In hormone perception, varying the concentrations of hormone, receptor, or downstream signaling elements can modulate signal transduction. Previous research has demonstrated that ethylene biosynthesis in plants is regulated by abiotic factors. Here we report that exposure of Arabidopsis plants to NaCl reduced expression of the ethylene receptor ETR1. The change in gene expression was reflected at the protein level based on immunoblot analysis. Further analysis supports a general effect of osmotic stress upon the expression level of ETR1. The reduction in ETR1 levels should cause increased sensitivity of the plant to ethylene. These results suggest that plant responses to abiotic stress are modulated by changes in the expression level of ethylene receptors.
Halobacillus locisalis sp. nov., a halophilic bacterium isolated from a marine solar saltern of the Yellow Sea in Korea.	A Gram-positive, motile, endospore-forming and rod-shaped halophilic bacterial strain MSS-155 (KCTC 3788 and KCCM 41687) was isolated from a marine solar saltern of the Yellow Sea in Korea and was subjected to a polyphasic taxonomic study. This organism grew at temperature of 10.0-42.0 degrees C with an optimum of 35 degrees C. Strain MSS-155 grew optimally in the presence of 10% NaCl and did not grow in the absence of NaCl. The cell wall peptidoglycan type of strain MSS-155 was A4beta based on l-Orn- d-Asp. Strain MSS-155 was also characterized chemotaxonomically by having menaquinone-7 (MK-7) as the predominant isoprenoid quinone and anteiso-C15:0 as the major fatty acid. The DNA G + C content was 44.0 mol%. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rDNA sequences showed that strain MSS-155 falls within the radiation of the cluster comprising Halobacillus species. Levels of 16S rDNA sequence similarity between strain MSS-155 and the type strains of four Halobacillus species were in the range 97.6-98.8%. Strain MSS-155 exhibited levels of DNA-DNA relatedness of 6.2-11.2% to the type strains of Halobacillus species described previously. On the basis of phenotypic properties, phylogeny, and genomic data, strain MSS-155 should be placed in the genus Halobacillus as a member of a novel species, for which we propose the name Halobacillus locisalis sp. nov.
Laser scanning cytometry and tissue microarray analysis of salinity effects on killifish chloride cells.	The effects of salinity on chloride cells (CC) and Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase content in gill epithelium of euryhaline killifish Fundulus heteroclitus were analyzed using laser scanning cytometry (LSC) and tissue microarrays (TMAs). Salinity acclimations consisted of acute transfer from freshwater (FW) to 1x seawater (SW) and gradual transfer from FW to 2.4x SW. Suspensions of dissociated gill epithelial cells were stained with DASPMI and evaluated using LSC. CC number and volume are proportional to external salinity, being lower in FW (0.5+/-0.2 x 10(5) and 405+/-32 micro m(3), respectively) and higher after 5 weeks in 2.4x SW (3.7+/-0.9 x 10(5) and 2697+/-146 micro m(3), respectively). TMAs were constructed from fixed gill tissues and developed using antibody for Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase to visualize CCs in situ and compare their characteristics with isolated CCs. Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase content per CC increases transiently (from 2.2+/-0.5 x 10(6) to 4.8+/-1.1 x 10(6) relative fluorescence units, RFU) after 1 week of acute acclimation to 1x SW but returns to baseline values (2.4+/-0.5 x 10(6) RFU) within 5 weeks. In contrast, gradual acclimation to 2.4x SW permanently increases Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase content per CC (from 2.0+/-0.8 x 10(6) to 6.7+/-2.7 x 10(6) RFU after 5 weeks). CC size in situ did not correlate well to salinity because of basolateral membrane infoldings. Taken together, these data suggest that euryhaline fishes are capable of sensing environmental salinity to utilize transient short-term and permanent long-term adaptations for coping with salinity changes. These results also demonstrate the power of LSC and TMA for comparative biology.
Effects of divercin V41 combined to NaCl content, phenol (liquid smoke) concentration and pH on Listeria monocytogenes ScottA growth in BHI broth by an experimental design approach.	To investigate the main effects and interactions of different factors : divercin V41 (0-4 ng ml(-1)), NaCl content (0.5-5.5% w v(-1)), phenol (liquid smoke) concentration (0-8 ppm), and pH (5.5-7.5) on Listeria monocytogenes ScottA growth.
The water- and salt-stress-regulated Asr1 (abscisic acid stress ripening) gene encodes a zinc-dependent DNA-binding protein.	Tomato (Lycopersicon esculantum) ASR1 (abscisic acid stress ripening protein), a small plant-specific protein whose cellular mode of action defies deduction based on its sequence or homology analyses, is one of numerous plant gene products with unknown biological roles that become over-expressed under water- and salt-stress conditions. Steady-state cellular levels of tomato ASR1 mRNA and protein are transiently increased following exposure of plants to poly(ethylene glycol), NaCl or abscisic acid. Western blot and indirect immunofluorescence analysis with anti-ASR1 antibodies demonstrated that ASR1 is present both in the cytoplasmic and nuclear subcellular compartments; approx. one-third of the total ASR1 protein could be detected in the nucleus. Nuclear ASR1 is a chromatin-bound protein, and can be extracted with 1 M NaCl, but not with 0.5% Triton X-100. ASR1, overexpressed in Escherichia coli and purified to homogeneity, possesses zinc-dependent DNA-binding activity. Competitive-binding experiments and SELEX (systematic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment) analysis suggest that ASR1 binds at a preferred DNA sequence.
Saccharomyces cerevisiae Hop1 zinc finger motif is the minimal region required for its function in vitro.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae meiosis-specific HOP1, which encodes a core component of synaptonemal complex, plays a key role in proper pairing of homologous chromosomes and processing of meiotic DNA double strand breaks. Isolation and analysis of hop1 mutants indicated that these functions require Cys(371) of Hop1 embedded in a region (residues 343-378) sharing homology to a zinc finger motif (ZnF). However, the precise biochemical function of Hop1, or its putative ZnF, in these processes is poorly understood. Our previous studies revealed that Hop1 is a DNA-binding protein, showed substantially higher binding affinity for G4 DNA, and enhances its formation. We report herein that ZnF appears to be sufficient for both zinc as well as DNA-binding activities. Molecular modeling studies suggested that Hop1 ZnF differs from the previously characterized natural ZnFs. The zinc-binding assay showed that the affinity for zinc is weaker for C371S ZnF mutant compared with the wild type (WT) ZnF. Analysis of CD spectra indicated that zinc and DNA induce substantial conformational changes in WT ZnF, but not in C371S ZnF mutant. The results from a number of different experimental approaches suggested that the DNA-binding properties of ZnF are similar to those of full-length Hop1 and that interaction with DNA rich in G residues is particularly robust. Significantly, WT ZnF by itself, but not C371S mutant, was able to bind duplex DNA and promote interstitial pairing of DNA double helices via the formation of guanine quartets. Together, these results implicate a direct role for Hop1 in pairing of homologous chromosomes during meiosis.
Coping with salt without salt glands: osmoregulatory plasticity in three species of coastal songbirds (ovenbirds) of the genus Cinclodes (Passeriformes: Furnariidae).	We investigated the phenotypic plasticity of renal function in three South American coastal passerine Cinclodes (ovenbirds) differing in the proportion of marine prey they consume. Individuals were acclimated to two regimes of salinity for 15 days, and then the maximal urine-concentrating ability (Umax), hematological parameters and kidney morphology of each species were determined. The proportion of kidney mass occupied by medullary tissue, the number of medullary cones in the kidneys, plasma osmolality and Umax differed among the three species, supporting the hypothesis of an adaptation for excretion of the high salt load in the strictly marine C. nigrofumosus. Our results indicate that species of Cinclodes are able to modify the proportion of medullary tissue and the Umax. In addition, we found interspecific differences in the magnitude to which these osmoregulatory parameters can be modified. The greater ability to modify the osmoregulatory features in the migrant species C. oustaleti may enable it to cope with seasonal changes in salt load imposed by the winter consumption of hypertonic prey.
Effects of a new cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator inhibitor on Cl- conductance in human sweat ducts.	Effective and specific inhibition of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) Cl- channel in epithelia has long been needed to better understand the role of anion movements in fluid and electrolyte transport. Until now, available inhibitors have required high concentrations, usually in the millimolar or high micromolar range, to effect even an incomplete block of channel conductance. These inhibitors, including 5-nitro-2(3-phenylpropyl-amino)benzoate (NPPB), bumetamide, glibenclamide and DIDS, are also relatively non-specific. Recently a new anion channel inhibitor, a thiazolidinone derivative, termed CFTRInh-172 has been synthesized and introduced with apparently improved inhibitory properties as shown by effects on anion conductance expressed in cell lines and on secretion in vivo. Here, we assay the effect of this inhibitor on a purely salt absorbing native epithelial tissue, the freshly isolated microperfused human sweat duct, known for its inherently high expression of CFTR. We found that the inhibitor at a maximum dose limited by its aqueous solubility of 5 microm partially blocked CFTR when applied to either surface of the membrane; however, it may be somewhat more effective from the cytosolic side (approximately 70% inhibition). It may also partially inhibit Na+ conductance. The inhibition was relatively slow, with a half time for maximum effect of about 3 min, and showed very slow reversibility. Results also suggest that CFTR Cl- conductance (GCl) was blocked in both apical and basal membranes. The inhibitor appears to exert some effect on Na+ transport as well.
The calcium sensor calcineurin B-like 9 modulates abscisic acid sensitivity and biosynthesis in Arabidopsis.	Calcium plays a pivotal role in plant responses to several stimuli, including pathogens, abiotic stresses, and hormones. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying calcium functions are poorly understood. It is hypothesized that calcium serves as second messenger and, in many cases, requires intracellular protein sensors to transduce the signal further downstream in the pathways. The calcineurin B-like proteins (CBLs) represent a unique family of calcium sensors in plant cells. Here, we report our analysis of the CBL9 member of this gene family. Expression of CBL9 was inducible by multiple stress signals and abscisic acid (ABA) in young seedlings. When CBL9 gene function was disrupted in Arabidopsis thaliana plants, the responses to ABA were drastically altered. The mutant plants became hypersensitive to ABA in the early developmental stages, including seed germination and post-germination seedling growth. In addition, seed germination in the mutant also showed increased sensitivity to inhibition by osmotic stress conditions produced by high concentrations of salt and mannitol. Further analyses indicated that increased stress sensitivity in the mutant may be a result of both ABA hypersensitivity and increased accumulation of ABA under the stress conditions. The cbl9 mutant plants showed enhanced expression of genes involved in ABA signaling, such as ABA-INSENSITIVE 4 and 5. This study has identified a calcium sensor as a common element in the ABA signaling and stress-induced ABA biosynthesis pathways.
The crab-eating frog, Rana cancrivora, up-regulates hepatic carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I activity and tissue osmolyte levels in response to increased salinity.	The crab-eating frog Rana cancrivora is one of only a handful of amphibians worldwide that tolerate saline waters. They typically inhabit brackish water of mangrove forests of Southeast Asia, but live happily in freshwater and can be acclimated to 75% seawater (25 ppt) or higher. We report here that after transfer of juvenile R. cancrivora from freshwater (1 ppt) to brackish water (10 -->20 or 20 -->25 ppt; 4-8 d) there was a significant increase in the specific activity of the key hepatic ornithine urea cycle enzyme (OUC), carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I (CPSase I). At 20 ppt, plasma, liver and muscle urea levels increased by 22-, 21-, and 11-fold, respectively. As well, muscle total amino acid levels were significantly elevated by 6-fold, with the largest changes occurring in glycine and beta-alanine levels. In liver, taurine levels were 5-fold higher in frogs acclimated to 20 ppt. There were no significant changes in urea or ammonia excretion rates to the environment. As well, the rate of urea influx (J(in) (urea)) and efflux (J(out) (urea)) across the ventral pelvic skin did not differ between frogs acclimated to 1 versus 20 ppt. Taken together, these findings suggest that acclimation to saline water involves the up-regulation of hepatic urea synthesis, which in turn contributes to the dramatic rise in tissue urea levels. The lack of change in urea excretion rates, despite the large increase in tissue-to-water gradients further indicates that mechanisms must be in place to prevent excessive loss of urea in saline waters, but these mechanisms do not include cutaneous urea uptake. Also, amino acid accumulation may contribute to an overall rise in the osmolarity of the muscle tissue, but relative to urea, the contribution is small.
Increase of uricogenesis in the kuruma shrimp Marsupenaeus japonicus reared under hyper-osmotic conditions.	Tissues of kuruma shrimp Marsupenaeus japonicus Bate (5.7+/-1.1 g) reared in salinities of 18, 26, 34 and 42 were examined for levels of nucleotide-related compounds, ammonia, urea and uric acid, and activities of xanthine dehydrogenase (XDH), xanthine oxidase (XOD) and uricase. Levels of total nucleotide-related compounds, including xanthine and hypoxanthine, in gill increased directly with salinity, whereas these same levels in hepatopancreas were inversely related with salinity. Hemolymph ammonia, urea and uric acid levels, and epidermal ammonia, urea and uric acid levels increased directly with salinity, whereas hepatopancreas ammonia and uric acid and gill uric acid levels were inversely related to salinity. Activities of XDH and XOD in hepatopancreas increased directly with salinity level, whereas no significant difference of uricase activity in hepatopancreas was observed among the four salinities. It is concluded M. japonicus exhibited uricogenesis and uricolysis, and an increase of uricogenesis occurred for the shrimp under hyper-osmotic conditions (salinity of 42). Uric acid produced in the hepatopancreas was transported and accumulated in the epidermis, and removed along with the spongy connective tissue at the time of molting.
Physcomitrella patens is highly tolerant against drought, salt and osmotic stress.	In order to determine the degree of tolerance of the moss Physcomitrella patens to different abiotic stress conditions, we examined its tolerance against salt, osmotic and dehydration stress. Compared to other plants like Arabidopsis thaliana, P. patens exhibits a high degree of abiotic stress tolerance, making it a valuable source for the identification of genes effecting the stress adaptation. Plants that had been treated with NaCl tolerated concentrations up to 350 mM. Treatments with sorbitol revealed that plants are able to survive concentrations up to 500 mM. Furthermore, plants that had lost 92% water on a fresh-weight basis were able to recover successfully. For molecular analyses, a P. patens expressed sequence tag (EST) database was searched for cDNA sequences showing homology to stress-associated genes of seed plants and bacteria. 45 novel P. patens genes were identified and subjected to cDNA macroarray analyses to define their expression pattern in response to water deficit. Among the selected cDNAs, we were able to identify a set of genes that is specifically up-regulated upon dehydration. These genes encode proteins exerting their function in maintaining the integrity of the plant cell as well as proteins that are known to be members of signaling networks. The identified genes will serve as molecular markers and potential targets for future functional analyses.
NaCl restriction upregulates renal Slc26a4 through subcellular redistribution: role in Cl- conservation.	Slc26a4 (Pds, pendrin) is an anion transporter expressed in the apical region of type B and non-A, non-B intercalated cells of the distal nephron. It is upregulated by aldosterone analogues and is critical in the development of mineralocorticoid-induced hypertension. Thus, Slc26a4 expression and its role in blood pressure and fluid and electrolyte homeostasis was explored during NaCl restriction, a treatment model in which aldosterone is appropriately increased. Ultrastructural immunolocalization, balance studies, and cortical collecting ducts (CCDs) perfused in vitro were used. With moderate physiological NaCl restriction, Slc26a4 expression in the apical plasma membrane increased 2- to 3-fold in type B intercalated cells. Because Slc26a4 transports Cl-, we tested whether NaCl balance differs in Slc26a4(+/+) and Slc26a4(-/-) mice during NaCl restriction. Cl- absorption was observed in CCDs from Slc26a4(+/+) but not from Slc26a4(-/-) mice. After moderate NaCl restriction, urinary volume and Cl- excretion were increased in Slc26a4(-/-) relative to Slc26a4(+/+) mice. Moreover, Slc26a4(-/-) mice had evidence of relative vascular volume depletion because they had a higher arterial pH, hematocrit, and blood urea nitrogen than wild-type mice. With moderate NaCl restriction, blood pressure was similar in Slc26a4(+/+) and Slc26a4(-/-) mice. However, on a severely restricted intake of NaCl, Slc26a4(-/-) mice were hypotensive relative to wild-type mice. We conclude that Slc26a4 is upregulated with NaCl restriction and is critical in the maintenance of acid-base balance and in the renal conservation of Cl- and water during NaCl restriction.
Evidence for involvement of at least six proteins in adaptation of Lactobacillus sakei to cold temperatures and addition of NaCl.	Lactobacillus sakei is a lactic acid bacterium widely represented in the natural flora of fresh meat. The aim of this study was to analyze the differences in protein expression during environmental changes encountered during technological processes in which L. sakei is involved in order to gain insight into the ability of this species to grow and survive in such environments. Using two-dimensional electrophoresis, we observed significant variation of a set of 21 proteins in cells grown at 4 degrees C or in the presence of 4% NaCl. Six proteins could be identified by determination of their N-terminal sequences, and the corresponding gene clusters were studied. Two proteins belong to carbon metabolic pathways, and four can be clustered as general stress proteins. A phenotype was observed at low temperature for five of the six mutants constructed for these genes. The survival of four mutants during stationary phase at 4 degrees C was affected, and surprisingly, one mutant showed enhanced survival during stationary phase at low temperatures.
Ion-motive ATPases and active, transbranchial NaCl uptake in the red freshwater crab, Dilocarcinus pagei (Decapoda, Trichodactylidae).	The present investigation examined the microanatomy and mRNA expression and activity of ion-motive ATPases, in anterior and posterior gills of a South American, true freshwater crab, Dilocarcinus pagei. Like diadromous crabs, the anterior gills of this hololimnetic trichodactylid exhibit a highly attenuated (2-5 microm), symmetrical epithelium on both lamellar surfaces. In sharp contrast, the posterior gill lamellar epithelia are markedly asymmetrical. Their proximal side consists of thick (18-20 microm) cells, displaying features typical of a transporting epithelium, while the distal epithelium is thin (3-10 microm) and formed entirely by apical pillar cell flanges. Both anterior and posterior gills express Na+/K+- and V-ATPases. Phylogenetic analysis of partial cDNA sequences for the Na+/K+-ATPase alpha-subunit and V-ATPase B-subunit among various crab species confirmed the previous classification and grouping of D. pagei based on morphological criteria. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR clearly showed that mRNA for both ion pump subunits is more intensely expressed in posterior gills. Na+/K+-ATPase activity in the posterior gills was nearly fourfold that of anterior gills, while V-ATPase and F-ATPase activities did not differ. A negative short-circuit current (Isc) was measured using the distal side of split, posterior gill lamellae, mounted in a modified Ussing chamber and perfused symmetrically with identical hemolymph-like salines. Although hemolymph-side ouabain did not affect this current, concanamycin significantly reduced Isc without altering preparation conductance, suggesting V-ATPase-driven Cl- absorption on the distal side of the posterior gill lamellae, as known to occur in diadromous crabs adapted to freshwater. These findings suggest that active Na+ uptake predominates across the thick proximal epithelium, and Cl- uptake across the thin, distal epithelium of the posterior gill lamellae.
A stress-inducible plasma membrane protein 3 (AcPMP3) in a monocotyledonous halophyte, Aneurolepidium chinense, regulates cellular Na(+) and K(+) accumulation under salt stress.	Regulation of ion homeostasis is fundamental to physiological activities in plants. Here, we report on the functional characterization of AcPMP3 [Aneurolepidium chinense (a monocotyledonous halophyte) plasma membrane protein 3] under salt stress. Expression of AcPMP3-1 and AcPMP3-2 genes was highly induced by various abiotic stresses, such as salt, cold and drought. Furthermore, abscisic acid, H(2)O(2) and salicylic acid also triggered expression of AcPMP3 genes. In the Deltanha1 Deltapmr2 Deltapmp3 yeast mutant, which lacks the major Na(+) efflux systems (Na(+)/H(+) antiporter and Na(+)-ATPase), its salt-sensitive phenotype was restored by expressing the AcPMP3-1 gene, and the transformants accumulated lesser amounts of Na(+) and K(+) than mutant cells under 50 mM NaCl and 500 mM KCl conditions, respectively. These results suggested that AcPMP3-1 plays a role as a regulator of both Na(+) and K(+) accumulation in the cells. In situ hybridization showed that the AcPMP3-1 transcript was localized in cells of the root cap and root epidermis, which strongly suggested that AcPMP3-1 is essential for regulating Na(+)/K(+) transportation between plant roots and the outer environment under salt stress.
Cell shrinkage evoked by Ca2+-free solution in rat alveolar type II cells: Ca2+ regulation of Na+-H+ exchange.	The effects of intracellular Ca2+ concentration, [Ca2+]i, on the volume of rat alveolar type II cells (AT-II cells) were examined. Perfusion with a Ca2+-free solution induced shrinkage of the AT-II cell volume in the absence or presence of amiloride (1 microm, an inhibitor of Na+ channels); however, it did not in the presence of 5-(N-methyl-N-isobutyl)-amiloride (MIA, an inhibitor of Na+-H+ exchange). MIA decreased the volume of AT-II cells. Inhibitors of Cl(-)-HCO3- exchange, 4,4'-diisothiocyanostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid (DIDS) and 4-acetamido-4'-isothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid (SITS) also decreased the volume of AT-II cells. This indicates that the cell shrinkage induced by a Ca2+-free solution is caused by a decrease in NaCl influx via Na+-H+ exchange and Cl(-)-HCO3- exchange. Addition of ionomycin (1 microm), in contrast, induced cell swelling when AT-II cells were pretreated with quinine and amiloride. This swelling of the AT-II cells is not detected in the presence of MIA. Intracellular pH (pHi) measurements demonstrated that the Ca2+-free solution or MIA decreases pHi, and that ionomycin increases it. Ionomycin stimulated the pHi recovery after an acid loading (NH4+ pulse method), which was not noted in MIA-treated AT-II cells. Ionomycin increased [Ca2+]i in fura-2-loaded AT-II cells. In conclusion, the Na+-H+ exchange activities of AT-II cells, which maintain the volume and pHi, are regulated by [Ca2+]i.
Harvesting of Spirulina platensis by cellular flotation and growth stage determination.	To investigate an effective harvesting method for Spirulina platensis.
Growth efficiency increases as relative growth rate increases in shoots and roots of Eucalyptus globulus deprived of nitrogen or treated with salt.	We used calorimetry to test whether there is a single general relationship between growth and respiration in shoots and roots of Eucalyptus globulus Labill. seedlings when stressed, irrespective of the type or severity of stress. We found that nitrogen (N) deprivation and salt treatment had no effect on the relationship between growth and respiration and little effect on absolute rates of respiration. Carbon-conversion efficiency (epsilonC) ranged from 0.7 to 0.9 for specific growth rates (R(SG)) greater than 0.3 day(-1). Above an R(SG) of 0.1 day(-1), epsilonC decreased gradually with decreasing R(SG) and between an R(SG) of 0- 0.1 day(-1), epsilonC decreased rapidly. We conclude that the relationship between epsilonC and R(SG) is not greatly affected by salt or N-deprivation stresses. Relationships between gross productivity and epsilonC may be generally applicable, in which case they could improve on the "flat-tax" approach to modeling net primary productivity from gross productivity while avoiding the complexity of more explicit models of plant respiration. However, the relationship between gross productivity and epsilonC was sensitive to temperature and the effect of temperature on epsilonC thus requires further investigation. Nitrogen deprivation caused large decreases in leaf area and shoot to root ratio, and mature leaves of N-deprived plants had lower intrinsic water-use efficiencies than leaves of plants well supplied with nutrients. Nitrogen deprivation increased apical dominance and most of the reduction in leaf area was the result of fewer secondary branches, although leaf size was also reduced. Our results suggest that N deprivation reduces productivity primarily by reducing sink size, rather than sink activity, and that apical dominance may be an important mechanism for maintaining adequate epsilonC in resource-limited conditions.
Active transport of dopamine in human placental brush-border membrane vesicles.	Brush-border membrane vesicles isolated from normal human term placentas were found to accumulate dopamine against a concentration gradient when an inwardly directed NaCl gradient was imposed across the membrane. The activity of the transport system was obligatorily dependent on Na+ as well as Cl-. Intravesicular H+ and intravesicular K+ stimulated the transport activity. The system possessed high affinity for dopamine and norepinephrine, with considerably lower affinity for serotonin. The stoichiometry of Na(+)-Cl(-)- dopamine was 1:1:1. The system was electrogenic because the NaCl-dependent dopamine uptake was stimulated by an inside-negative membrane potential, and this characteristic was observed in the presence and in the absence of intravesicular K+. Kinetic analysis revealed that the uptake was due to a carrier-mediated component plus a diffusion/binding component. The apparent Michaelis-Menten constant for dopamine for the carrier-mediated component was 19 +/- 7 nM. The transport system was clearly distinct from the serotonin transporter. Analysis of the inhibition of dopamine uptake by various monoamine uptake inhibitors showed that the uptake occurred via a transport system that is similar to the neuronal norepinephrine transporter.
Analysis of volume regulation in an epithelial cell model.	An epithelial cell is modeled as a single compartment, bounded by apical and basolateral cell membranes, and containing two nonelectrolyte solute species, nominally NaCl and KCl. Membrane transport of these species may be metabolically driven, or it may follow the transmembrane concentration gradients, either singly (a channel) or jointly (a cotransporter). To represent the effect of stretch-activated channels or shrinkage-activated cotransporters, the membrane permeabilities and cotransport coefficients are permitted to be functions of cell volume. When this epithelium is considered as a dynamical system, conditions are indicated which guarantee the uniqueness and stability of equilibria. Experimentally, many epithelial cells can regulate their volume, and such volume regulatory capability is defined for this model. It is clearly distinct from dynamical stability of the equilibrium and requires more stringent conditions on the volume-dependent permeabilities and cotransporters. For a previously developed model of the toad urinary bladder (Strieter et al., 1990, J. gen. Physiol. 96, 319-344) the uniqueness and stability of its equilibria are indicated. The analysis also demonstrates that under some conditions a second stable equilibrium may appear, along with a saddle-node bifurcation. This is illustrated numerically in a modified model of the epithelium of the thick ascending limb of Henle.
Transitions induced by solubilized fat into reverse hexagonal mesophases.	Lyotropic liquid crystals of glycerol monooleate (GMO) and water binary mixtures have been extensively studied and their resemblance to human membranes has intrigued many scientists. Biological systems as well as food mixtures are composed of lipids and fat components including triacylglycerols (TAGs, triglycerides) that can affect the nature of the assembly of the mesophase. The present study examines the effect of TAGs of different chain lengths (C(2)-C(18)) at various water/GMO compositions, on phase transitions from lamellar or cubic to reverse hexagonal (L(alpha)-H(II) and Q-H(II)). The ability of the triglycerides to promote the formation of an H(II) mesophase is chain length-dependent. It was found that TAG molecules with very short acyl chains (triacetin) can hydrate the head groups of the lipid and do not affect the critical packing parameter (CPP) of the amphiphile; therefore, they do not affect the self-assembly of the GMO in water, and the mesophase remains lamellar or cubic. However, TAGs with medium chain fatty acids will solvate the tails of the lipid, and will affect the CPP of the GMO, and transform the lamellar or cubic phases into hexagonal mesophase. TAGs with long chain fatty acids are very bulky, not very miscible with the GMO, and therefore, kinetically are very slow to solvate the lipid tails of the amphiphile and are difficult to accommodate into the lipophilic parts of the GMO. Their effect on the transitions from a lamellar or cubic phase to hexagonal is detected only after months of equilibration. In order to enhance the effect of the TAG on the phase transitions in the GMO/triglyceride/water systems, temperature and electrolytes effects were examined. In the presence of short and medium chain triglycerides, increasing temperature caused a transition from lamellar or hexagonal to L(2) phase (highest CPP value). However, in the presence of long chain TAGs, increasing temperature to ca. 40 degrees C caused a formation of H(II) mesophase. In addition, it was found that in tricaprylin/GMO/water systems, the increase in temperature caused a decrease in the lattice parameter. The effect of NaCl on the H(II) mesophase revealed interesting results. At low concentration of tricaprylin (5 wt%), the addition of only 0.1 wt% of NaCl was sufficient to cause the formation of well-defined H(II) mesophase, while further addition of electrolyte increased the hexagonal lattice parameters. At higher TAGs concentrations (10 wt%), addition of electrolyte resulted in the formation of H(II) with modifications of the lattice parameter. All the examined effects were more pronounced with increasing water content.
Adaptational changes in cellular fatty acid branching and unsaturation of Aeromonas species as a response to growth temperature and salinity.	The effects of growth temperature and salinity on the cellular fatty acids were investigated on Aeromonas caviae, Aeromonas hydrophila and Aeromonas sobria. Under optimal growth conditions, fatty acids patterns were dominated by even-numbered chains C(16:0), C(16:1cis9), C(18:1cis11), C(12:0) and C(14:0). Growth temperature modifications induced, in the three Aeromonas species, important changes in fatty acid (i) unsaturation, (ii) branching and (iii) chain length. An important decrease in the C(18:1cis11) fatty acid content was observed for the three species below 15 degrees C and above 25 degrees C. The evolution of C(18:1cis11) and C(16:0) showed a mirror image for the three Aeromonas species. Low NaCl concentrations did not elicit significant changes in the fatty acids content of the three Aeromonas species. However, for high NaCl concentration in the medium, the growth ability was related to an important decrease of the unsaturated to saturated fatty acids ratio indicating a membrane rigidification. Thermal and salinity adaptations were branched fatty acid-dependent for A. caviae, whereas this phenomenon was less significant for A. hydrophila and A. sobria.
Active NaCl transport in the cortical thick ascending limb of Henle's loop of the mouse does not require the presence of bicarbonate.	The aim of the present study was to investigate whether bicarbonate buffer (CO2 + HCO3-) is required to sustain maximal NaCl transport in the cortical thick ascending limb of Henle's loop (cTAL) of the mouse. Transepithelial Na+ and Cl- net fluxes (JNa, JCl, pmol min-1 mm-1), measured by electron microprobe analysis, were similar irrespective of the presence or absence of CO2 + HCO3- in luminal and bathing solutions (JNaCl with CO2 + HCO3- = 203 +/- 25 pmol min-1 mm-1; JNaCl without CO2 + HCO3- = 213 +/- 13 pmol min-1 mm-1, n = 14). Furthermore the transepithelial potential difference, Vte, the transepithelial resistance, Rte, and the basolateral membrane potential, Vbl, were unaffected by CO2 + HCO3-. In the absence of CO2 + HCO3-, Vte was +17.0 +/- 1.7 mV (n = 9) (lumen positive), Rte was 28 +/- 2 omega cm2 (n = 9) and Vbl was -76 +/- 4 mV (n = 6). In the presence of CO2 + HCO3-, Vte, Rte and Vbl were +15.9 +/- 1.5 mV, 29 +/- 1 omega cm2 and -73 +/- 5 mV, respectively. 4-Acetamido-4'-isothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'-disulphonic acid (SITS; 0.1 mmol l-1) and amiloride (1 mmol l-1) added to the (CO2 + HCO3-)-containing lumen perfusate were without effect on Vte and Rte. Finally, the effect of furosemide (0.1 mmol l-1) on Vte and Vbl in the presence of CO2 + HCO3- was investigated. Furosemide reversibly decreased Vte from +13.7 +/- 1.1 mV to +1.7 +/- 0.7 mV (n = 6) and hyperpolarized Vbl from -70 +/- 1 to -89 +/- 3 mV (n = 5), suggesting passive distribution of Cl- across the basolateral membrane. In conclusion, these data suggest that active NaCl transport in the cTAL of the mouse does not require the presence of CO2 + HCO3-.
Reversible cryoactivation of recombinant human prorenin.	Cleavage of prorenin's prosegment causes irreversible formation of renin. In contrast, renin activity is reversibly exposed when prorenin is acidified to pH 3.3. Nonetheless, acidification of plasma results in irreversible activation of prorenin, because endogenous proteases cleave the prosegment of acid-activated prorenin. Chilling of plasma results in irreversible cryoactivation of prorenin. In this study we investigated whether cryoactivation of purified prorenin is reversible. The intrinsic renin activity of recombinant human prorenin was measured by an enzyme kinetic assay using partially purified human angiotensinogen as substrate. Results are expressed as a percent (mean +/- S.E.) of the maximal activity exposed after limited proteolysis by trypsin. The intrinsic renin activity of two pools (0.3 and 0.06 Goldblatt units/ml) was 1.5% +/- 0.3 and 1.2% +/- 0.6 at 37 degrees C. Activity increased to 19% +/- 0.3 and 26% +/- 0.5 after incubation at 0 degrees C and to 5.4% +/- 0.5 and 2.1% +/- 1.2 at room temperature. Cryoactivation did not occur in buffers containing more than 1 M NaCl. It took 8 min at 37 degrees C or 180 min at room temperature for cryoactivated prorenin to lose half of its intrinsic renin activity. It took 48 and 26 h, respectively, at 0 degree C for the two pools of prorenin at 37 degrees C to regain half of their maximum intrinsic activity at 0 degrees C. A direct immunoradiometric assay that detects active renin but not prorenin was able to detect cryoactivated prorenin. These results show that human prorenin can be reversibly cryoactivated in buffers of low ionic strength and has greater intrinsic activity at room temperature than at 37 degrees C.
Halomonas alkaliantarctica sp. nov., isolated from saline lake Cape Russell in Antarctica, an alkalophilic moderately halophilic, exopolysaccharide-producing bacterium.	The taxomony of strain CRSS (DSM 15686(T)=ATCC BAA-848(T)) isolated from Cape Russell in Antarctica (Ross Sea, 74 52.35 S 163 53.03 E) was investigated in a polyphasic approach. The morphological, physiological and genetic characteristics were compared with that of related species of the genus Halomonas. The isolate grew optimally at pH 9.0, 10% NaCl at 30 degrees C. The cells were Gram-negative aerobic rods able to produce exopolysaccharide. They accumulated glycine-betaine, as a major osmolyte, with minor components ectoine and glutamate. The strain CRSS biosynthetised alpha-glucosidase. The polar lipid profile consisted of phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylglycerol and diphosphatidylglycerol as major components. Ubiquinone with nine repetitive unities (Q9) was the only quinone found and the fatty acid composition was dominated by C18:1 (53%). The G+C content of DNA was 55.0mol% and its phylogenetic position was established by 16S rRNA gene sequencing as a member of the genus Halomonas. For physiological, chemotaxonomic and genetic features (DNA-DNA hybridisation) it is proposed to classify the isolate as a new species for which we propose the name Halomonas alkaliantarctica sp. nov.
In vitro studies of copper release from powder particles in synthetic biological media.	The aim of this paper is to provide quantitative data on copper release from powder particles of different copper materials, including artificial copper patina, Cu(2)O and metallic Cu, when exposed to different synthetic biological media to simulate an inhalation scenario and/or skin contact. Generated data may contribute in risk assessment of potential health effects following exposure to and handling of various copper materials. All tests were performed in vitro to determine total copper concentrations, release rates of total copper, and to elucidate its time-dependence. The copper release process was interpreted in terms of specific surface area, surface morphology-, and composition. All powder materials show a time-dependent release process with total copper release rates less than 3 microg/cm(2) per hour at steady state conditions, for all media investigated. The importance of using relevant test media when simulating different interstitial lung conditions and difficulties encountered when comparing powder particles of essentially different properties are thoroughly discussed.
Phosphorus appetite in sheep: dissociating taste from postingestive effects.	We hypothesized that lambs discriminate the postingestive effects of P and associate those effects with feed flavor to modify feed choices. Three predictions were tested based on this hypothesis: 1) lambs will modify preference for arbitrary flavors eaten during intraruminal infusions of NaH2PO4, 2) changes in preferences are more specific than changes in osmotic load induced by salts of Na; and 3) preference for P is inversely related to the concentration of inorganic P in blood. Thirty lambs were depleted of P by the offer of a P-deficient diet, allocated to 3 groups (10 lambs/group), and conditioned during 3 periods as follows: During conditioning period 1, lambs in each of 3 groups ate a poorly nutritious feed (grape pomace), flavored differently for each group, while water was infused into the rumen. During conditioning periods 2 and 3, lambs again ate grape pomace, with 2 new flavors now paired with infusion of an aqueous solution (126 mmol) of NaCl (conditioning period 2) or NaH2PO4 (conditioning period 3), rather than with water. After conditioning, all lambs were offered a choice of the 3 flavors during preference tests immediately after conditioning (period 1) and every 3 wk thereafter (periods 2, 3, and 4). During period 1, when serum inorganic P levels were greatest, lambs preferred flavors paired with water > NaCl > NaH2PO4 (P < 0.05). During periods 2 and 3, as inorganic P concentrations decreased in serum, lambs preferred flavors paired with NaH2PO4 > NaCl (period 2, P = 0.10; period 3, P = 0.05). Lambs preferred flavors paired with water > NaH2PO4 in period 2 (P < 0.001), but those differences disappeared in periods 3 and 4 (P > 0.05). During period 4, lambs preferred flavors paired with NaCl > NaH2PO4 (P < 0.10). The estimate of the slope for the linear relationship between intake of flavors paired with NaH2PO4 and serum inorganic P was negative (P < 0.0001), whereas estimates of the slopes for the relationships between intake of flavors paired with NaCl or water and serum inorganic P were not different from 0. Thus, preference for P was inversely related to the concentration of serum inorganic P. Our results suggest lambs discriminated among the postingestive effects of NaH2PO4, NaCl, and water and associated those effects with specific flavors. Lambs avoided flavors paired with NaH2PO4 during periods of P replenishment, and they increased preference for those flavors during periods of P need.
Salt, alone or in combination with sucrose, can improve the survival of Escherichia coli O157 (SERL 2) in model acidic sauces.	The commercial production of microbiologically safe and stable sauces containing acetic acid is guided by the Comit des Industries des Mayonnaises et Sauces Condimentaires de la Communaut Economique Europenne's (CIMSCEE) code. The CIMSCEE safety value is calculated using a linear regression equation combining weighted contributions of pH and aqueous-phase concentrations of undissociated acetic acid, NaCl, and sugars. By implication, the CIMSCEE safety equation predicts that increasing concentrations of hurdles will always increase inactivation of the target pathogen. In this study, the time to achieve a 3-log10 reduction of an acid-resistant, acid-adapted, Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC) O157 isolate was determined experimentally for 81 formulations at various pHs and acetic acid, NaCl, and sucrose concentrations in a broth model. The combinations were intended to simulate the aqueous phase of acidic sauces and dressings. Experimental data were fitted to the log logistic model to estimate the time to 3-log10 reduction (t3D). Comparison of fitted t3D estimates with CIMSCEE values showed agreement in predicting safety (as defined by CIMSCEE) for the majority of formulations. However, CIMSCEE safety predictions were "fail dangerous" for 13 of 81 formulations. Among these formulations and others, the observed E. coli t3D initially increased and then decreased with increasing osmolalities (NaCl and sucrose). Relative protection increased with exposure time where the protective effect of NaCl predominated. While commercial acidic sauces are not considered high-risk vehicles for STEC, interactions among hurdles that decrease their combined effectiveness are deserving of further investigation because they may reveal mechanisms of broader relevance in the inactivation of pathogens in foods.
Salt-wasting 21-hydroxylase deficiency congenital adrenal hyperplasia and pyloric stenosis in two Hispanic brothers.	The differential diagnosis of vomiting and dehydration in the first month of life includes congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) and pyloric stenosis (PS). Each diagnosis may mask the presence of the other, requiring careful evaluation and follow-up. We document the occurrence of CAH and PS in two Hispanic siblings.
The effect of reuterin on the lag time of single cells of Listeria innocua grown on a solid agar surface at different pH and NaCl concentrations.	The lag time of single cells of Listeria innocua grown on the surface of Brain Heart Infusion Agar was studied by microscopy and image analysis. An experimental set-up that enabled relocation of the cells on the agar surface was developed and used to collect data from 50 to 100 individual cells at a time. Reuterin was added at different concentrations (0-10 AU/ml) and it was observed that it increased both the lag time of the cells and its variance. Furthermore, for a large proportion of cells, reuterin completely prevented the cell division within the time of observation. Reuterin in combination with low pH inhibited the cell division even more efficiently. A similar effect was observed for the combination of reuterin and sodium chloride. Our experimental set-up provides a good model system for generating data on the lag time of single cells on solid surfaces, which can improve the predictions of microbial growth on solid food matrices.
Cell wall involvement in the glycerol response to high osmolarity in the halotolerant yeast Debaryomyces hansenii.	Osmotic stress was studied through the induction of the gene coding for glycerol 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (DhGPD1) in the halotolerant yeast Debaryomyces hansenii. This yeast responded to modifications in turgor pressure by stimulating the transcription of DhGPD1 when exposed to solutes that cause turgor stress (NaCl or sorbitol), but did not respond to water stress mediated by ethanol. In contrast to what has been documented to occur in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, D. hansenii protoplasts did not show induction in the transcription of DhGPD1 showing a limitation in their response to solute stress. The results presented indicate that the presence of the cell wall is of significance for the induction of DhGPD1 and hence for osmotic regulation in halotolerant D. hansenii. It appears that the main osmosensor that links high osmolarity with glycerol accumulation may be of a different nature in this yeast.
Efficiency of biochemical protection against toxic effects of accumulated salt differentiates Thellungiella halophila from Arabidopsis thaliana.	Thellungiella halophila and Arabidopsis thaliana were irrigated with medium containing NaCl at various concentrations. The salt treatment resulted in a restriction of rosette biomass deposition in both species. In A. thaliana leaves, this inhibition was stronger than for T. halophila and was associated with strong inhibition of both leaf initiation and leaf expansion. At highest medium salinity, A. thaliana accumulated Na(+) and Cl(-) at higher levels than T. halophila, but similar leaf dehydration was observed in the two species. Proline accumulation, which increased with NaCl concentration, did not differentiate the two species. The magnitude of the electrolyte leakage and the level of lipid peroxidation (assessed through hydroxy fatty acid content) were modest in T. halophila and quite marked in A. thaliana. The detrimental effects of the salt on photosynthetic activity and stomatal conductance of A. thaliana leaves were much more important than in T. halophila leaves. The abundance of the CDSP32 thioredoxin, a critical component of the defence system against oxidative damage and lipid peroxidation, was found to be higher in T. halophila than in A. thaliana under control conditions and salt treatment. These results suggest that the rosette leaves of T. halophila exhibit more efficient protective mechanisms against Na(+) metabolic toxicity than those of A. thaliana.
Two-dimensional differential in-gel electrophoresis (DIGE) of leaf and roots of Lycopersicon esculentum.	In this report we present a detailed protocol for the analysis of differential protein expression between two plant tissue samples. The protocol involves harvesting of leaves and roots from mature tomato plants, preparing protein extracts from the harvested tissues, fluorescent labeling of each sample prior to differential in-gel electrophoresis (DIGE), first- and second-dimension electrophoretic separations, and image analysis to visualize and quantify differential protein expression. This protocol is adaptable for use with a wide variety of plant materials and can be used to measure protein expression changes occurring in response to abiotic stress, biotic stress, genetic manipulation, selective breeding, and many other conditions. In addition to the detailed protocol, we also present the results of a representative experiment analyzing subtle changes in protein expression in the roots of tomato plants grown under control and salt-stress conditions.
Biocalalyst effects of immobilized anthraquinone on the anaerobic reduction of azo dyes by the salt-tolerant bacteria.	The accelerating effect of dissolved redox mediators has been studied in details in the bio-decolorization processes, but there are little literatures about the non-dissolved redox mediators. Here we describe the accelerating effect of anthraquinone as a redox mediator in the bio-decolorization. Decolorization of azo dyes was carried out experimentally using the salt-tolerant bacteria under immobilized anthraquinone and high salt conditions. Anthraquinone as a redox mediator was able to increase the decolorization rate of azo dyes, and was immobilized by entrapment in calcium alginate (CA), Polyvinyl alcohol (PVA)-H(3)BO(3) and agar, respectively. The effects of various operating conditions such as anthraquinone bead number, dissolved oxygen, temperature and pH on microbial decolorization were investigated experimentally. The reusability of the anthraquinone immobilization beads was evaluated with repeated-batch decolorization experiments. After four repeated experiments, the decolorization rate of CA immobilized anthraquinone retained over 90% of their original value. The experiments explored a great improvement of the redox mediator application and the new bio-treatment concept.
Sodium chloride inhibits cytokine production by lipopolysaccharide-stimulated human neutrophils and mononuclear cells.	Hypertonic sodium chloride (NaCl) solution has been shown to have beneficial effects on patients with hypovolemic shock. Therapy with hypertonic saline seems to neutralize or minimize the deleterious immune responses in these patients. In this study, we addressed how hypertonic NaCl solution affects the release of cytokines by isolated human blood cells. We examined the effect of NaCl on tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, interleukin (IL)-8, IL-1beta, and IL-1 receptor antagonist released by human neutrophils and mononuclear cells under nonstimulated and LPS-stimulated conditions. Cells isolated from healthy donors were cultured in the presence or absence of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Cytokine concentrations were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in culture supernatants. The addition of NaCl lowered the production of IL-8, TNF-alpha, and IL-1 receptor antagonist by neutrophils, and IL-8 and IL-1beta by mononuclear cells stimulated with LPS. This effect was not observed when NaCl solution was replaced by a solution of potassium iodide in the same conditions. The decreased production of cytokines in the presence of hypertonic saline was not caused by cell death. Our findings support the proposal that the modulation of leukocyte inflammatory response by NaCl occurs by an electrolyte-specific effect in addition to the hyperosmolarity. Furthermore, the results of this study support the therapeutic use of appropriate doses of i.v. NaCl solutions to minimize tissue injury characterized by neutrophil and mononuclear cell infiltration into tissues in post-traumatic patients.
Effect of high hydrostatic pressure on four genotypes of F-specific RNA bacteriophages.	The pressure responses of four genotypes of F-specific RNA bacteriophages, f2, GA, Qbeta and SP, were evaluated with respect to pressure magnitude, treatment temperature and suspending medium.
Analysis of factors influencing the rate of germination of spores of Bacillus subtilis by very high pressure.	To elucidate the factors that determine the rate of germination of Bacillus subtilis spores with very high pressure (VHP) and the mechanism of VHP germination.
Mechanisms of heat inactivation in Salmonella serotype Typhimurium as affected by low water activity at different temperatures.	To determine the effect of reduced water activity (a(w)) on thermal inactivation of Salmonella serotype Typhimurium at different temperatures and its mechanism.
Global structure analysis of acid-unfolded myoglobin with consideration to effects of intermolecular coulomb repulsion on solution X-ray scattering.	To obtain information on the global structure of protein in the acid-unfolded (AU) state, the structure of apomyoglobin (apoMb) was analyzed by using the solution X-ray scattering (SXS) method. SXS profiles were obtained over a wide range of protein concentrations, 1-18 mg mL-1, under strongly acidic conditions. From analysis of the SXS profile extrapolated to a zero protein concentration, the mean square radius, Rsq, of AU-apoMb at 20 mM HCl was estimated to be 4.81 +/- 0.31 nm. This estimate is more than 1.3 nm larger than those of 3.0-3.5 nm reported thus far. The difference originates from the fact that effects of Coulomb repulsive forces acting between AU-apoMb molecules have not been correctly taken into account in the conventional analysis. In fact, even at a low protein concentration of 1 mg mL-1 close to the limit of measurement in the present SXS method, the solution condition applicable to estimating accurately structural parameters of AU-apoMb is very limited. At HCl concentrations lower than 10 mM, the scattering intensity at a small scattering vector decreases remarkably through the effect of intermolecular repulsive forces and the forward scattering intensity is significantly lower than the estimate from the partial specific volume of protein. On the other hand, at HCl concentrations higher than 50 mM, some compact molten-globule-like structures emerge. As a result, the intermediate concentration of 20 mM HCl is the best choice of the solution condition for determining Rsq of AU-apoMb. The effect of intermolecular Coulomb repulsion on the SXS profile of AU-apoMb is at its maximum for forward scattering and decreases monotonously with an increase in the scattering angle to be virtually negligible at K approximately 0.63 nm(-1). Whereas urea-denatured apoMb shows a SXS profile typical of Gaussian chains, the intrinsic SXS profile of AU-apoMb differs significantly from those of Gaussian chains.
Nitrogen uptake and metabolism in Populus x canescens as affected by salinity.	External salinization can affect different steps of nitrogen (N) metabolism (ion uptake, N assimilation, and amino acid and protein synthesis) depending on the inorganic N source. Here, we assessed the net uptake of N supplied as nitrate or ammonium and N assimilation (combining metabolite analyses with molecular biological approaches) in grey poplar (Populus x canescens) plants grown under saline (75 mM NaCl) and control conditions. The specific (micromol N g(-1) dry weight fine roots h(-1)) and total plant (micromol N per plant h(-1)) N net uptake rates, total plant N content, total plant biomass and total leaf protein concentration were reduced under saline conditions when plants were supplied with ammonium. In both nutritional groups, salt treatment caused pronounced accumulation of soluble N compounds in the leaves. The mRNAs of genes coding for enzymes catalyzing rate-limiting steps of both proline synthesis and degradation (delta-1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthase and proline dehydrogenase) as well as for NADH-dependent glutamate synthase were accumulated under saline conditions. Whereas under control conditions the plant N status seemed to be superior when ammonium was supplied, the N balance of ammonium-fed plants was more severely affected by salt stress than that of plants supplied with nitrate. Possible metabolic implications of stress-related accumulation of particular amino acids are discussed.
Functional analysis of the aquaporin gene family in Caenorhabditis elegans.	Aquaporin channels facilitate the transport of water, glycerol, and other small solutes across cell membranes. The physiological roles of many aquaporins remain unclear. To better understand aquaporin function, we characterized the aquaporin gene family in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. Eight canonical aquaporin-encoding genes (aqp) are present in the worm genome. Expression of aqp-2, aqp-3, aqp-4, aqp-6, or aqp-7 in Xenopus oocytes increased water permeability five- to sevenfold. Glycerol permeability was increased three to sevenfold by expression of aqp-1, aqp-3, or aqp-7. Green fluorescent protein transcriptional and translational reporters demonstrated that aqp genes are expressed in numerous C. elegans cell types, including the intestine, excretory cell, and hypodermis, which play important roles in whole animal osmoregulation. To define the role of C. elegans aquaporins in osmotic homeostasis, we isolated deletion alleles for four aqp genes, aqp-2, aqp-3, aqp-4, and aqp-8, which are expressed in osmoregulatory tissues and mediate water transport. Single, double, triple, and quadruple aqp mutant animals exhibited normal survival, development, growth, fertility, and movement under normal and hypertonic culture conditions. aqp-2;aqp-3;aqp-4;aqp-8 quadruple mutants exhibited a slight defect in recovery from hypotonic stress but survived hypotonic stress as well as wild-type animals. These results suggest that C. elegans aquaporins are not essential for whole animal osmoregulation and/or that deletion of aquaporin genes activates mechanisms that compensate for loss of water channel function.
A psychophysical and electrophysiological analysis of salt taste in Trpv1 null mice.	Current evidence suggests salt taste transduction involves at least two mechanisms, one that is amiloride sensitive and appears to use apically located epithelial sodium channels relatively selective for Na(+) and a second that is amiloride insensitive and uses a variant of the transient receptor potential vanilloid receptor 1 (TRPV1) that serves as a nonspecific cation channel. To provide a functional context for these findings, we trained Trpv1 knockout (KO) and wild-type (WT) C57BL/6J mice (n = 9 or 10/group) in a two-response operant discrimination procedure and measured detection thresholds to NaCl and KCl with and without amiloride. The KO and WT mice had similar detection thresholds for NaCl and KCl. Amiloride shifted the NaCl sensitivity curve to the same degree in both groups and had virtually no effect on KCl thresholds. In addition, a more detailed analysis of chorda tympani nerve (CT) responses to NaCl, with and without benzamil (Bz, an amiloride analog) treatment revealed that the tonic portion of the CT response of KO mice to NaCl + Bz was absent, but both KO and WT mice displayed some degree of a phasic response to NaCl with and without Bz. Because these transients constitute the entire CT response to NaCl + Bz in Trpv1 KO mice, it is possible that these signals are sufficient to maintain normal NaCl detectabilty in the behavioral task used here. Additionally, there may be other amiloride-insensitive salt transduction mechanisms in taste receptor fields other than the anterior tongue that maintain normal salt detection performance in the KO mice.
Tolerance to high osmolality of the lactic acid bacterium Oenococcus oeni and identification of potential osmoprotectants.	Growth of the lactic acid bacterium Oenococcus oeni under hyperosmotic constraint was investigated in a chemically defined medium. The bacterium could grow on media with an elevated osmolality, preferably below 1.5 Osm kg(-)(1) H(2)O. At osmolalities comprised between 0.6 and 1.5 Osm kg(-)(1) H(2)O, the growth deficit elicited by the sugars glucose and fructose was slightly more severe than with salts (NaCl or KCl). In contrast to what was observed in other lactic acid bacteria, proline, glycine betaine and related molecules were unable to relieve inhibition of growth of O. oeni under osmotic constraint. This was correlated to the absence of sequences homologous to the genes coding for glycine betaine and/or proline transporters described in Lactococcus lactis and Lactobacillus plantarum. The amino acid aspartate proved to be osmoprotective under electrolyte and non-electrolyte stress. Examination of the role of peptides during osmoregulation showed that proline- and glutamate-containing peptides were protective under salt-induced stress, and not under sugar-induced stress. Under high salt, PepQ a cytoplasmic prolidase that specifically liberated proline from di-peptides increased activity, while PepX (X-prolyl-dipeptidyl aminopeptidase) and PepI (iminopeptidase) activities were unaffected. Our data suggest that proline- and glutamate-containing peptides may contribute to the adaptation of O. oeni to high salt through their intracellular hydrolysis and/or direct accumulation.
Angiotensin II receptor signalling.	Angiotensin II plays a key role in the regulation of body fluid homeostasis. To correct body fluid deficits that occur during hypovolaemia, an animal needs to ingest both water and electrolytes. Thus, it is not surprising that angiotensin II, which is synthesized in response to hypovolaemia, acts centrally to increase both water and NaCl intake. Here, we review findings relating to the properties of angiotensin II receptors that give rise to changes in behaviour. Data are described to suggest that divergent signal transduction pathways are responsible for separable behavioural responses to angiotensin II, and a hypothesis is proposed to explain how this divergence may map onto neural circuits in the brain.
The Drosophila NFAT homolog is involved in salt stress tolerance.	The NFAT gene encodes the only homolog in Drosophila of the five human Nuclear Factors of Activated T-cells, NFAT1-5. Its rel homology domain is most similar to that of NFAT5, and like the latter it lacks conserved AP1 and calcineurin binding sites. Two promoters give rise to alternative transcripts that are ubiquitously expressed in several different tissues. We generated mutants for each transcript, as well as a mutant that lacks all functional NFAT expression. Only the null mutant generated a visible phenotype, indicating that the two transcripts are redundant. The mutants are sensitive to high salt diet and have enlarged anal pads in hypotonic solution, suggesting that NFAT, like mammalian NFAT5, is regulating the osmotic balance. A phylogenetic reconstruction puts the Drosophila gene near the root of the NFAT tree, indicating that regulation of tonicity may be an ancestral function of the NFAT family.
Acetonitrile degradation under haloalkaline conditions by Natronocella acetinitrilica gen. nov., sp. nov.	Nitriles are important environmental compounds, both as natural products and industrial pollutants. Until now, there have been no data on the possibility of microbial nitrile degradation at high pH/salt conditions. Acetonitrile (CH(3)C(triple bond)N) is the simplest organic nitrile. Here, evidence is provided of microbial utilization of acetonitrile as a carbon, energy and nitrogen source at extremely high pH and moderate salinity. Positive enrichment cultures with acetonitrile at pH 10 and salt content equivalent to 0.6 M total Na(+) were obtained from mixed sediment samples from soda lakes, but not from soda soils. Purification of these cultures resulted in the isolation of two bacterial strains capable of growth with acetonitrile as sole carbon, energy and nitrogen source under haloalkaline conditions. Apart from acetonitrile, the bacteria also grew with propionitrile. Nitrile hydrolysis to acetamide was identified as the rate-limiting step of acetonitrile degradation via the nitrile hydratase/amidase pathway. The new bacteria belonged to moderately salt-tolerant obligate alkaliphiles with optimum growth at pH 10 and 0.5 M total Na(+). The cells were yellow-coloured due to a high concentration of carotenoids dominated by zeaxanthin. Phylogenetic analysis placed the isolates into a new lineage within the family Ectothiorhodospiraceae in the Gammaproteobacteria. On the basis of unique phenotypic properties and their separate phylogenetic position, the new bacteria are placed into a new genus and species for which the name Natronocella acetinitrilica gen. nov., sp. nov is proposed.
Identification of proteins involved in osmotic stress response in Enterobacter sakazakii by proteomics.	Enterobacter sakazakii is considered an opportunistic food-borne pathogen, causing rare but significant illness especially in neonates. It has been proposed that the organism is relatively resistant to osmotic and dry stress compared to other species of the Enterobacteriaceae group. To understand the mechanisms involved in osmotic stress response, 2-DE protein analysis coupled to MALDI-TOF MS was employed to investigate changes in the protein profiles of E. sakazakii cells in response to two different types of osmotic stress (physical desiccation and growth in hyperosmotic media). In total, 80 differentially expressed protein spots corresponding to 53 different protein species were identified. Affiliation of proteins to functional categories revealed that a considerable number of the differentially expressed proteins from desiccated and hyperosmotic grown samples belonged to the same functional category but were regulated in opposite directions. Our data show that the protein pattern of NaCl-grown cultures reflect more or less a general down-regulation of central metabolic pathways, whereas adaptation of (non-growing) cells in a desiccated state represents an accumulation of proteins that serve some structural or protective role. The most striking effects observed for both types of osmotic stress in E. sakazakii were a significant down-regulation of the motility apparatus and the formation of filamentous cells.
Effects of osmopriming on seed germination of canola (Brassica napus L.) under salinity stress.	Canola has good yield and performance in weak and saline soils that other oil crops can not be cultivated in them. Performance and production of this crop can be improved by increasing the vigor of its seeds. Priming is one of the techniques for enhancing seed vigor under stress condition. Pretreatment of seeds in osmotic solutions is called osmopriming, which is used to increase the seed moisture content and speed of germination. In this study, seeds of three varieties of canola (SLM046, Okapi and Licord) were primed in osmotic solutions and then were germinated under salinity stress at laboratory conditions. Osmotic solutions were made by polyethylene glycol 6000 in osmotic potentials of -10, -12, -14, -16 and -18 bar for 24 h. NaCl solutions with electrical conductivities of 0, 6, 12 and 18 ds/m were used to make salinity stress. Results of this study showed that osmopriming could be used to increase the performance of seeds under normal and salinity stress.
Hypotonic swelling of salicylate-treated cochlear outer hair cells.	The outer hair cell (OHC) is a hydrostat with a low hydraulic conductivity of Pf=3x10(-4) cm/s across the plasma membrane (PM) and subsurface cisterna that make up the OHC's lateral wall. The SSC is structurally and functionally a transport barrier in normal cells that is known to be disrupted by salicylate. The effect of sodium salicylate on Pf is determined from osmotic experiments in which isolated, control and salicylate-treated OHCs were exposed to hypotonic solutions in a constant flow chamber. The value of Pf=3.5+/-0.5x10(-4) cm/s (mean+/-s.e.m., n=34) for salicylate-treated OHCs was not significantly different from Pf=2.4+/-0.3x10(-4) cm/s (mean+/-s.e.m., n=31) for untreated OHCs (p=.3302). Thus Pf is determined by the PM and is unaffected by salicylate treatment. The ratio of longitudinal strain to radial strain epsilonz/epsilonc=-0.76 for salicylate-treated OHCs was significantly smaller (p=.0143) from -0.72 for untreated OHCs, and is also independent of the magnitude of the applied osmotic challenge. Salicylate-treated OHCs took longer to attain a steady-state volume which is larger than that for untreated OHCs and increased in volume by 8-15% prior to hypotonic perfusion unlike sodium alpha-ketoglutarate-treated OHCs. It is suggested that depolymerization of cytoskeletal proteins and/or glycogen may be responsible for the large volume increase in salicylate-treated OHCs as well as the different responses to different modes of application of the hypotonic solution.
Mineralocorticoid modulation of central angiotensin-induced neuronal activity, water intake and sodium appetite.	Central angiotensin II (AngII) stimulates water and salt solution intake. Pretreatment with low-dose mineralocorticoid (DOCA) enhances this AngII-induced intake of salt solutions (the synergy theory) in Wistar and Sprague Dawley rats but not in Fischer rats. This response is mediated via the AT-1 receptor. Electrophysiological experiments using iontophoretic application of AngII and the AT-1 receptor-specific non-peptide antagonist losartan showed excitation of neurons in the preoptic/medial septum region of urethane-anesthetized male Wistar rats. DOCA pretreatment further enhances this neuronal excitation in response to AngII and reduces the responses to losartan. This generated the hypothesis that DOCA-enhanced AngII-induced neuronal excitation is the neural support for the synergy theory. AT-2 receptors modulate these intake responses depending on sodium in the diet, and diuretic-induced dehydration during pregnancy produces a higher salt intake in the offspring. AngII-induced salt and water intakes were tested in offspring from Sprague Dawley mothers with only 1.8% NaCl to drink in which half were treated with furosemide. The important observations were a) the AT-1 antagonist alone suppressed intakes in offspring from mothers not treated with furosemide, b) both AT-1 and AT-2 antagonists suppressed intakes in offspring from furosemide-treated mothers, and c) combined administration of AT-1 and AT-2 antagonists greatly suppressed water intake in offspring from mothers not treated with furosemide. These results suggest that AT-1 and AT-2 receptors have variable properties (receptor number and/or second messengers). Furthermore, the activity and function of these central AngII receptors depend on the background mineralocorticoid levels. The exact mechanism of this influence, however, remains to be determined.
Halomonas avicenniae sp. nov., isolated from the salty leaves of the black mangrove Avicennia germinans in Puerto Rico.	A Gram-negative, short rod to oval-shaped bacterium (strain MW2a(T)) was isolated from the surface of leaves of the black mangrove Avicennia germinans and subjected to a polyphasic taxonomic study. Strain MW2a(T) was moderately halophilic, growing at NaCl concentrations in the range 0-25 % (w/v) with optimum growth at 5 % (w/v) NaCl. Growth occurred at 12-40 degrees C (optimum, 30-35 degrees C) and at pH 5.0-9.0 (optimum, pH 7.0-8.0). Strain MW2a(T) was strictly aerobic. Phylogenetic analysis based on the 16S rRNA gene showed that the strain belongs to the genus Halomonas. The closest relative was Halomonas marisflavi, with 98.6 % 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity. The DNA G+C content of strain MW2a(T) was 61.5 mol%, which is in the range of values for Halomonas species. DNA-DNA hybridization with H. marisflavi showed a relatedness of 42 % and lower values were obtained with respect to other related Halomonas species. The major fatty acids were C(16 : 0), C(19 : 0) cyclo omega8c, C(18 : 1)omega7c and C(12 : 0) 3-OH. Overall, the phenotypic, genotypic and phylogenetic results presented in this study demonstrate that strain MW2a(T) represents a novel species within the genus Halomonas. The name Halomonas avicenniae sp. nov. is proposed, with strain MW2a(T) (=CECT 7193(T)=CCM 7396(T)) as the type strain.
Halomonas gudaonensis sp. nov., isolated from a saline soil contaminated by crude oil.	Two moderately halophilic strains, SL014B-69(T) and SL014B-62A2, were isolated from a saline soil contaminated with crude oil in Gudao in the coastal Shengli oilfield in China; the isolates were Gram-negative, rod-shaped and carried lateral flagella. Growth occurred at NaCl concentrations of 1-20 % (w/v), at temperatures of 10-42 degrees C and at pH 8.0-9.0. Strain SL014B-69(T) had C(18 : 1)omega7c (28.61 %), C(19 : 1) cyclo omega7c (27.97 %), C(16 : 0) (19.66 %) and C(12 : 0) 3-OH (8.87 %) as the predominant fatty acids and Q9 as the major ubiquinone, with the G+C content of genomic DNA being 64.0 mol%. Phylogenetic analyses based on 16S rRNA gene sequences indicated that the two strains belonged to genus of Halomonas in the Gammaproteobacteria, with the highest 16S rRNA gene sequence similarities of 96.4 % with Halomonas campisalis ATCC 700597(T) and 96.0 % with Halomonas desiderata FB2(T). DNA-DNA relatedness of strain SL014B-69(T) with strain SL014B-62A2, H. campisalis ATCC 700597(T) and H. desiderata DSM 9502(T) was 97.4, 42.9 and 36.8 %, respectively. On the basis of these data, a novel species of the genus Halomonas, Halomonas gudaonensis sp. nov., is proposed for strain SL014B-69(T) and SL014B-62A2. The type strain is SL014B-69(T) (=LMG 23610(T)=CGMCC 1.6133(T)).
Rhodobium gokarnense sp. nov., a novel phototrophic alphaproteobacterium from a saltern.	A pink-pigmented, phototrophic, purple nonsulfur bacterium, strain JA173(T), was isolated in pure culture from a saltern in Gokarna, India, in a medium containing 2 % (w/v) NaCl. Strain JA173(T) was a non-motile Gram-negative rod that multiplied by budding. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that strain JA173(T) clusters with the class Alphaproteobacteria; highest sequence similarity (98 %) was to the type strain of Rhodobium orientis and 94 % similarity was observed to the 16S rRNA gene sequence of the type strain of Rhodobium marinum. However, DNA-DNA hybridization with R. orientis DSM 11290(T) revealed a relatedness value of only 35.1 % with strain JA173(T). Strain JA173(T) contained lamellar internal membranes, bacteriochlorophyll a and carotenoids of the spirilloxanthin series. Strain JA173(T) had an obligate requirement for NaCl (optimum growth at 2-6 %, w/v) and grew photoheterotrophically with a number of organic compounds as carbon source or electron donor. Photoautotrophic, chemoautotrophic and fermentative growth could not be demonstrated. Yeast extract was required for growth. Based on 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis, DNA-DNA hybridization data and morphological and physiological characteristics, strain JA173(T) is sufficiently different from other species of the genus Rhodobium to be recognized as a representative of a novel species, Rhodobium gokarnense sp. nov. The type strain is JA173(T) (=ATCC BAA-1215(T)=DSM 17935(T)=JCM 13532(T)).
Glaciecola agarilytica sp. nov., an agar-digesting marine bacterium from the East Sea, Korea.	A taxonomic study was carried out on an isolate, strain NO2(T), from marine sediment collected from the East Sea, Korea. Comparative 16S rRNA gene sequence studies showed that this strain belonged to the Gammaproteobacteria and was most closely related to Glaciecola mesophila KMM 241(T) and Glaciecola polaris LMG 21857(T) (98.6 and 98.0 % 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity, respectively). The isolate was Gram-negative, aerobic and slightly halophilic and grew in 2-8 % NaCl and at 7-30 degrees C. Strain NO2(T) shared some physiological and biochemical properties with G. mesophila KMM 241(T) and G. polaris LMG 21857(T). The G+C content of the genomic DNA of strain NO2(T) was 45 mol%. Strain NO2(T) possessed C(16 : 0), summed feature 4 (C(16 : 1)omega7c and/or iso-C(15 : 0) 2-OH) and summed feature 7 (C(18 : 1)omega9c/omega12t/omega7c) as the major cellular fatty acids. DNA-DNA relatedness data indicated that strain NO2(T) represents a distinct species that is separate from G. mesophila and G. polaris. On the basis of polyphasic evidence, it is proposed that strain NO2(T) (=KCTC 12755(T)=LMG 23762(T)) represents the type strain of a novel species, Glaciecola agarilytica sp. nov.
Halovivax ruber sp. nov., an extremely halophilic archaeon isolated from Lake Xilinhot, Inner Mongolia, China.	A Gram-negative, pleomorphic, extremely halophilic archaeon, designated strain XH-70(T), was isolated from the saline Lake Xilinhot, in Inner Mongolia, China. It formed small (0.9-1.5 mm), red-pigmented, elevated colonies on agar medium. The strain required at least 2.5 M NaCl and 5 mM Mg(2+) for growth. The 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis indicated that strain XH-70(T) belongs to the family Halobacteriaceae, showing 99.5 % similarity to the type strain of Halovivax asiaticus and 94.7 and 94.6 % similarity, respectively, to the type strains of Natronococcus amylolyticus and Natronococcus occultus. Polar lipid analysis supported the placement of strain XH-70(T) in the genus Halovivax. DNA-DNA hybridization studies (32 % with Halovivax asiaticus CGMCC 1.4248(T)), as well as biochemical and physiological characterization, allowed strain XH-70(T) to be differentiated from Halovivax asiaticus. A novel species, Halovivax ruber sp. nov., is therefore proposed to accommodate this strain. The type strain is XH-70(T) (=CGMCC 1.6204(T)=DSM 18193(T)=JCM 13892(T)).
Marinobacter salsuginis sp. nov., isolated from the brine-seawater interface of the Shaban Deep, Red Sea.	Two moderately halophilic Gram-negative bacteria were isolated from a sample taken from the brine-seawater interface of the Shaban Deep in the Red Sea. Phylogenetic analysis of the 16S rRNA gene sequence showed that these organisms represent a novel species of the genus Marinobacter. Cells of the new isolates formed non-pigmented colonies and were motile by means of a single polar flagellum. Strains SD-14B(T) and SD-14C grew optimally at 35-37 degrees C, in 5 % NaCl and at pH 7.5-8.0. The organisms were aerobic, but reduced nitrate to nitrogen under anaerobic conditions. Acid was produced from only a few carbohydrates. Ubiquinone 9 was the major respiratory quinone. The major fatty acids of strains SD-14B(T) and SD-14C were C(16 : 0), C(18 : 1)omega9c, summed feature 3 (C(16 : 1)omega6c/C(16 : 1)omega7c) and C(12 : 0) 3-OH. The DNA G+C contents were 55.9 and 55.7 mol%, respectively. On the basis of the phylogenetic analyses and physiological and biochemical characteristics, it is proposed that strains SD-14B(T) and SD-14C represent a novel species of the genus Marinobacter, with the name Marinobacter salsuginis sp. nov. The type strain is strain SD-14B(T) (=DSM 18347(T)=LMG 23697(T)).
Flagellimonas eckloniae gen. nov., sp. nov., a mesophilic marine bacterium of the family Flavobacteriaceae, isolated from the rhizosphere of Ecklonia kurome.	A marine bacterium, DOKDO 007(T), was isolated from the rhizosphere of the marine alga Ecklonia kurome collected from Dokdo Island, Korea, in October 2004. The strain produced orange-coloured colonies on marine agar 2216. 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis indicated that the novel isolate belonged to the family Flavobacteriaceae and showed relatively high sequence similarities with members of the genus Muricauda (92.0-94.0 %). Phylogenetic analysis based on nearly complete 16S rRNA gene sequences revealed that the novel isolate shared a lineage with members of the genera Muricauda and Costertonia. Cells were aerobic, Gram-negative rods producing non-diffusible carotenoid pigments. In contrast to all other members of the family Flavobacteriaceae, cells of DOKDO 007(T) were motile by means of a polar flagellum. Optimal growth occurred in the presence of 3.5-4 % (w/v) sea salts (corresponding to 2.7-3.1 % NaCl), at pH 8 and at temperatures of 26-29 degrees C. The novel strain required Ca(2+) ions in addition to NaCl for growth. The dominant fatty acids were iso-15 : 0, iso-15 : 1omega10c and 10-methyl-16 : 0. The major respiratory quinone was MK-6. The DNA G+C content was 56.3 mol%, an unusually high value for members of the family Flavobacteriaceae. On the basis of these polyphasic taxonomic data, strain DOKDO 007(T) should be classified as representing a new genus and novel species in the family Flavobacteriaceae, for which the name Flagellimonas eckloniae gen. nov., sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is DOKDO 007(T) (=KCCM 42307(T)=JCM 13831(T)).
Methylosoma difficile gen. nov., sp. nov., a novel methanotroph enriched by gradient cultivation from littoral sediment of Lake Constance.	A novel methanotroph, strain LC 2(T), was isolated from the littoral sediment of Lake Constance by enrichment in opposing gradients of methane and oxygen, followed by traditional isolation methods. Strain LC 2(T) grows on methane or methanol as its sole carbon and energy source. It is a Gram-negative, non-motile, pale-pink-coloured methanotroph showing typical intracytoplasmic membranes arranged in stacks. Cells are coccoid, elliptical or rod-shaped and occur often in pairs. Strain LC 2(T) grows at low oxygen concentrations and in counter-gradients of methane and oxygen. It can grow on medium free of bound nitrogen, possesses the nifH gene and fixes atmospheric nitrogen at low oxygen pressure. It grows at neutral pH and at temperatures between 10 and 30 degrees C. Phylogenetically, it is most closely related to the genus Methylobacter, with the type strains of Methylobacter tundripaludum and Methylobacter psychrophilus showing 94 and 93.4 % 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity, respectively. Furthermore, the pmoA gene sequence of strain LC 2(T) is most closely related to pmoA gene sequences of Methylobacter strains (92 % similar to Methylobacter sp. LW 12 by deduced amino acid sequence identity). The DNA G+C content is 49.9 mol% and the major cellular fatty acid is 16 : 1omega7c (60 %). Strain LC 2(T) (=JCM 14076(T)=DSM 18750(T)) is described as the type strain of a novel species within a new genus, Methylosoma difficile gen. nov., sp. nov.
Halalkalibacillus halophilus gen. nov., sp. nov., a novel moderately halophilic and alkaliphilic bacterium isolated from a non-saline soil sample in Japan.	A moderately halophilic and alkaliphilic bacterium, designated strain BH2(T), was isolated from non-saline garden soil in Saitama, Japan. Cells of strain BH2(T) were motile, aerobic, rod-shaped and Gram-positive and contained A1gamma, meso-diaminopimelic acid-type murein. Growth occurred in 5.0-25 % (w/v) NaCl (optimum, 10-15 %, w/v), at pH 5.5-10.0 (optimum, pH 8.5-9.0) and at 20-40 degrees C. The predominant isoprenoid quinone was menaquinone-7. The major cellular fatty acids were ai-C(15 : 0), i-C(16 : 0), ai-C(17 : 0) and i-C(15 : 0). The G+C content of the total DNA of strain BH2(T) was 35.1+/-0.4 mol% (+/-sd; n=5). The phylogenetic distance from species with validly published names was less than 94.1 %. The phylogenetic and phenotypic characteristics indicated that strain BH2(T) represents a novel genus and species, for which the name Halalkalibacillus halophilus gen. nov., sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is BH2(T) (=JCM 14192(T)=DSM 18494(T)).
Desulfurispora thermophila gen. nov., sp. nov., a thermophilic, spore-forming sulfate-reducer isolated from a sulfidogenic fluidized-bed reactor.	A thermophilic, Gram-positive, endospore-forming, sulfate-reducing bacterium was isolated from a sulfidogenic fluidized-bed reactor treating acidic metal- and sulfate-containing water. The strain, designated RA50E1(T), was rod-shaped and motile. The strain grew at 40-67 degrees C (optimum growth at 59-61 degrees C) and pH 6.4-7.9 (optimum growth at pH 7.0-7.3). The strain tolerated up to 1 % NaCl. Sulfate, sulfite, thiosulfate and elemental sulfur were used as electron acceptors, but not nitrate, nitrite or iron(III). Electron donors utilized were H(2)/CO(2) (80 : 20, v/v), alcohols, various carboxylic acids and some sugars. Fermentative growth occurred on lactate and pyruvate. The cell wall contained meso-diaminopimelic acid and the major respiratory isoprenoid quinone was menaquinone MK-7. Major whole-cell fatty acids were iso-C(15 : 0) and iso-C(17 : 0). Strain RA50E1(T) was distantly related to representatives of the genera Desulfotomaculum, Pelotomaculum, Sporotomaculum and Cryptanaerobacter. On the basis of 16S rRNA gene sequence data, the strain cannot be assigned to any known genus. Based on the phenotypic and phylogenetic features of strain RA50E1(T), it is proposed that the strain represents a novel species in a new genus, for which the name Desulfurispora thermophila gen. nov., sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain of Desulfurispora thermophila is RA50E1(T) (=DSM 16022(T)=JCM 14018(T)).
Proposal of Lysinibacillus boronitolerans gen. nov. sp. nov., and transfer of Bacillus fusiformis to Lysinibacillus fusiformis comb. nov. and Bacillus sphaericus to Lysinibacillus sphaericus comb. nov.	Three strains of a spore-forming, Gram-positive, motile, rod-shaped and boron-tolerant bacterium were isolated from soil. The strains, designated 10a(T), 11c and 12B, can tolerate 5 % (w/v) NaCl and up to 150 mM boron, but optimal growth was observed without addition of boron or NaCl in Luria-Bertani agar medium. The optimum temperature for growth was 37 degrees C (range 16-45 degrees C) and the optimum pH was 7.0-8.0 (range pH 5.5-9.5). A comparative analysis of the 16S rRNA gene sequence demonstrated that the isolated strains were closely related to Bacillus fusiformis DSM 2898(T) (97.2 % similarity) and Bacillus sphaericus DSM 28(T) (96.9 %). DNA-DNA relatedness was greater than 97 % among the isolated strains and 61.1 % with B. fusiformis DSM 2898(T) and 43.2 % with B. sphaericus IAM 13420(T). The phylogenetic and phenotypic analyses and DNA-DNA relatedness indicated that the three strains belong to the same species, that was characterized by a DNA G+C content of 36.5-37.9 mol%, MK-7 as the predominant menaquinone system and iso-C(15 : 0) (32 % of the total) as a major cellular fatty acid. In contrast to the type species of the genus Bacillus, the strains contained peptidoglycan with lysine, aspartic acid, alanine and glutamic acid. Based on the distinctive peptidoglycan composition, phylogenetic analyses and physiology, the strains are assigned to a novel species within a new genus, for which the name Lysinibacillus boronitolerans gen. nov., sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain of Lysinibacillus boronitolerans is strain 10a(T) (=DSM 17140(T)=IAM 15262(T)=ATCC BAA-1146(T)). It is also proposed that Bacillus fusiformis and Bacillus sphaericus be transferred to this genus as Lysinibacillus fusiformis comb. nov. and Lysinibacillus sphaericus comb. nov., respectively.
Hypertonic sodium chloride and mannitol induces COX-2 via different signaling pathways in mouse cortical collecting duct M-1 cells.	The kidney cortical collecting duct is an important site for the maintenance of sodium balance. Previous studies have shown that, in renal medullary cells, hypertonic stress induces expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) via NF-kappaB activation, but little is known about COX-2 expression in response to hypertonicity in the cortical collecting duct. Therefore, we examined the mechanism of hypertonic induction of COX-2 in M-1 cells derived from mouse cortical collecting duct. Induction of COX-2 protein was detected within 6 h of treatment with hypertonic sodium chloride. The treatment also increased COX-2 mRNA accumulation in a cycloheximide-independent manner, suggesting that ongoing protein synthesis is not required for COX-2 induction. Using reporter plasmids containing 0.2-, 0.3-, and 1.5-kb fragments of the COX-2 promoter, we found that hypertonic induction of COX-2 was due to an increase in promoter activity. The COX-2-inductive effect of hypertonicity was inhibited by SB203580, indicating that the effect is mediated by p38 MAPK. Since p38 MAPK can activate NF-kappaB, we made point mutations in the NF-kappaB binding site within the COX-2 promoter. The mutations did not block the induction of COX-2 promoter activity by hypertonic sodium chloride, and hypertonic sodium chloride failed to activate NF-kappaB binding site-driven reporter gene constructs. In contrast, hypertonic mannitol activated NF-kappaB, indicating that hypertonic mannitol and hypertonic sodium chloride activate COX-2 by different mechanisms. Thus, induction of COX-2 expression in M-1 cells by hypertonic sodium chloride does not involve activation of NF-kappaB. Furthermore, the signal transduction pathways that respond to hypertonic stress vary for different osmolytes in cortical collecting duct cells.
Stimulus-secretion coupling of hypotonicity-induced insulin release in BRIN-BD11 cells.	The stimulus-secretion coupling for hypotonicity-induced insulin release was investigated in BRIN-BD11 cells. A 50 mM decrease in extracellular NaCl caused a twofold increase in insulin release. The release of insulin evoked by hypotonicity progressively decreased in an exponential manner. The response to extracellular hypotonicity displayed a threshold value close to 20 mOsmol/L and a maximal response at about 70 mOsmol/ L. Hypotonicity also caused a rapid increase in cell volume followed by a regulatory volume decrease (RVD), cell membrane depolarization with induction of spike activity, and a rise in cytosolic Ca2+ concentration. 5-Nitro-2-(3-phenylpropylamino)benzoate inhibited the secretory response to hypoosmolarity, failed to affect the early increase in cell volume but prevented the RVD, and suppressed the hypotonicity-induced plasma membrane depolarization. Insulin release provoked by hypotonicity was inhibited by verapamil, absence of Ca2+, thapsigargin, furosemide, tributyltin, and diazoxide. On the contrary, tolbutamide augmented modestly insulin release recorded in the hypoosmolar medium. Last, a rise in extracellular K+ concentration, while augmenting basal insulin output, failed to affect insulin release in the hypoosmolar medium. Thus, the insulin secretory response to hypotonicity apparently represents a Ca2+-dependent process triggered by the gating of volume-sensitive anion channels with subsequent depolarization and gating of voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels.
A mathematical model of the diluting power of the cortical thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle.	A mathematical model is presented that describes the ionic transport across the cortical thick ascending limb (cTAL) of the Henle's loop, taking into account its tubular geometry. A comprehensive description of the cTAL is given for the first time in terms of potential, ion concentrations and ion fluxes along the tubule. For given ion concentrations at the entrance of the tubule, the model simulates steady-state profiles and allows the fitting of existing experimentally measured values at its exit. Moreover, the model expands the potentialities of experiments in situ and enables testing the effect of different perturbations induced by drugs or mutation-altering transport activity. One of the main insights given by this model is the increase of the lumenal electrical potential from the entrance to the exit of the tubule with a profile determined by the transepithelial electrical potential difference and by the chemical gradients along the lumen, both reflecting transepithelial salt transport. Furthermore, model and experimental results are consistent, showing that when the TAL is perfused at high rates with a diluted NaCl solution in relation to the bath, the transepithelial electrical potential difference increases from 6.7 to 23.0 mV and the potential difference across the basolateral barrier changes very little. The model predicts that the same static head is obtained independently of the NaCl concentration at the entrance of the tubule. A final important insight concerns the lowest reported NaCl concentrations (20-30 mM) at the exit of the tubule, which is controlled by a very tight epithelium, where the back-leak is substantially reduced.
Effects of atrial natriuretic peptide on water and NaCl absorption across the intestine.	Previous studies have demonstrated that atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) causes natriuresis and diuresis. However, it is not established whether ANP also alters fluid and electrolyte balance via actions on intestinal absorption of water and sodium chloride. Therefore, the purpose of the present study was to investigate the effects of ANP on water and NaCl absorption across the intestine. First, we determined that ANP was taken up from the intestinal circulation in conscious dogs. During the intravenous infusion of ANP (0.3 microgram.kg-1.min-1), 27.4% of the ANP delivered to the intestinal vascular bed were removed from the circulation at that vascular bed, whereas only 1% of the ANP delivered to the hepatic circulation was removed at the hepatic vascular bed. Second, we determined the effects of the ANP infusion on splanchnic circulation in conscious dogs. ANP decreased hepatic arterial blood flow by 14%, portal venous blood flow by 16%, total hepatic blood flow by 15%, and cardiac output by 14%. Finally, we studied the effects of ANP on intestinal absorption of water and NaCl. ANP suppressed net absorption of water by 61%, Na+ by 43%, and Cl- by 42% across the jejunum but not the ileum. These results suggest that ANP modulates water and NaCl homeostasis across the jejunum but not across the ileum.
Contrasting effects of changes in salt balance on the renovascular response to A1-adenosine receptor stimulation in vivo and in vitro in the rat.	Stimulation of renal A1-adenosine receptors produces vasoconstriction that is maximal when the animal is salt-depleted and is inhibited during salt loading. We postulated that the effect of salt balance on the vasoconstrictor response to A1-adenosine receptor stimulation was due to a change intrinsic to the kidney, perhaps related to a change in responsiveness of the renal A1-adenosine receptor population. We tested this hypothesis by determining the renovascular response to the metabolically stable, selective, A1-adenosine receptor agonist N6-cyclohexyladenosine (CHA) in salt-loaded and salt-depleted rats in vivo and in isolated, perfused kidneys harvested from these rats. CHA was a renal vasoconstrictor in the salt-depleted animals and a renal vasodilator in the salt-loaded rats. In the isolated, perfused kidneys, CHA produced a biphasic response with submicromolar concentrations being vasoconstrictor and higher concentrations being vasodilator. In contrast to the response in vivo CHA was a more potent vasoconstrictor in the isolated, perfused kidneys that had been removed from salt-loaded animals. Indomethacin enhanced the vasoconstrictor response to CHA in the kidneys removed from salt-loaded animals but had no effect on the kidneys from salt-depleted animals. These findings indicate that the inhibition of the renal vasoconstrictor response to CHA in salt-loaded animals is not related to a change within the kidney but that a factor extrinsic to the kidney must be responsible for the change in adenosine responsiveness in vivo.
The kidney and essential hypertension.	In the first part of the text the main elements of renal physiology are mentioned as well as the role played by sodium-modulating hormones in the preservation of sodium and water homeostasis. A personal contribution concerns the release as well as the circadian rhythm of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and of the digitalis-like substance (DLS). In the second part, the problem is dealt with from a pathophysiologic point of view, with reference made to the literature, and to our own data. In particular, the problem of essential hypertension with reduced levels of plasma renin activity (PRA) is thoroughly analyzed. As is well known, this kind of hypertension is characterized by normal plasma aldosterone levels associated with reduced kallikrein urinary excretion. The data we gathered not only confirmed these findings but also enabled us to point out other typical features of this particular kind of hypertension: normal values of vasopressin, elevation of ANP and DLS, hyperactivity of Na+/K+ cotransport. The introduction of a single variant in the sodium-modulating systems confirmed that the low PRA patient also behaves distinctively from a dynamic point of view. In fact, prostaglandin inhibition determines hypertension only in these patients, while both oral kallikrein administration and intravenous ANP administration were particularly effective because of a primitive deficit of the natriuretic paracrine systems paralleled by a compensatory increase of ANP. After identifying this group of hypertensive patients we intended to ascertain whether, even in the normal or high PRA patients, it was possible to identify a sub-group of subjects with altered sodium-modulation. The patients we examined were subdivided according to their hormonal and renal response to a saline load, and to angiotensin II, into "modulators" (with normal) and "nonmodulators" (with reduced sodium excretion capacity). An analysis of the hormonal characteristics of non-modulators identified an increased responsiveness of all sodium-modulation systems and not only of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system as pointed out by some other authors. The last part of the text is devoted to clinical and therapeutic problems. The behaviour of the daily blood pressure profile in patients with essential hypertension, and then the influence that sodium-modulating systems may have on pressure are discussed. The consequences of a progressive reduction in renal function on the circadian rhythm of arterial pressure are then assessed, and, at the same time, how renal impairment parallels the flattening of the daily pressure rate is observed.
cGMP decreases surface NKCC2 levels in the thick ascending limb: role of phosphodiesterase 2 (PDE2).	NaCl absorption in the medullary thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle (THAL) is mediated by the apical Na/K/2Cl cotransporter (NKCC2). Hormones that increase cGMP, such as nitric oxide (NO) and natriuretic peptides, decrease NaCl absorption by the THAL. However, the mechanism by which cGMP decreases NaCl absorption in THALs is not known. We hypothesized that cGMP decreases surface NKCC2 levels in the THAL. We used surface biotinylation to measure surface NKCC2 levels in rat THAL suspensions. We tested the effect of the membrane-permeant cGMP analog dibutyryl-cGMP (db-cGMP) on surface NKCC2 levels. Incubating THALs with db-cGMP for 20 min decreased surface NKCC2 levels in a concentration-dependent manner (basal=100%; db-cGMP 100 microM=77+/-7%; 500 microM=54+/-10% and 1,000 microM=61+/-8%). A different cGMP analog 8-bromo-cGMP (8-Br-cGMP) also decreased surface NKCC2 levels by 25%, (basal=100%; 8-Br-cGMP=75+/-5%). Incubation of isolated, perfused THALs with db-cGMP decreased apical surface NKCC2 labeling levels as measured by immunofluorescence and confocal microscopy. cGMP-stimulated phosphodiesterase 2 (PDE2) mediates the inhibitory effect of NO on NaCl absorption by THALs. Thus we examined the role of PDE2 and found that PDE2 inhibitors blocked the effect of db-cGMP on surface NKCC2. Also, a nonstimulatory concentration of db-cAMP blocked the cGMP-induced decrease in surface NKCC2. Finally, db-cGMP inhibited THAL net Cl absorption by 48+/-4%, and this effect was completely blocked by PDE2 inhibition. We conclude that cGMP decreases NKCC2 levels in the apical membrane of THALs and that this effect is mediated by PDE2. This is an important mechanism by which cGMP inhibits NaCl absorption by the THAL.
Effects of water potential on spore germination and viability of Fusarium species.	Germination of macroconidia and/or microconidia of 24 strains of Fusarium solani, F. chlamydosporum, F. culmorum, F. equiseti, F. verticillioides, F. sambucinum, F. oxysporum and F. proliferatum isolated from fluvial channels and sea beds of the south-eastern coast of Spain, and three control strains (F. oxysporum isolated from affected cultures) was studied in distilled water in response to a range of water potentials adjusted with NaCl. (0, -13.79, -41.79, -70.37, -99.56 and -144.54 bars). The viability (UFC/ml) of suspensions was also tested in three time periods (0, 24 and 48 h). Conidia always germinated in distilled water. The pattern of conidial germination observed of F. verticilloides, F. oxysporum, F. proliferatum, F. chlamydosporum and F. culmorum was similar. A great diminution of spore germination was found in -13.79 bars solutions. Spore germination percentage for F. solani isolates was maximal at 48 h and -13.79 bars with 21.33% spore germination, 16% higher than germination in distilled water. F. equiseti shows the maximum germination percentage in -144.54 bars solution in 24 h time with 12.36% germination. This results did not agree with those obtained in the viability test were maximum germination was found in distilled water. The viability analysis showed the great capacity of F. verticilloides strains to form viable colonies, even in such extreme conditions as -144.54 bars after 24 h F. proliferatum colony formation was prevented in the range of -70.37 bars. These results show the clear affectation of water potential to conidia germination of Fusaria. The ability of certain species of Fusarium to develop a saprophytic life in the salt water of the Mediterranean Sea could be certain. Successful germination, even under high salty media conditions, suggests that Fusarium spp. could have a competitive advantage over other soil fungi in crops irrigated with saline water. In the specific case of F. solani, water potential of -13.79 bars affected germination positively. It could indicate that F. solani has an special physiological mechanism of survival in low water potential environments.
Organic solvent tolerance of Halobacterium sp. SP1(1) and its extracellular protease.	Halophilic archaea belonging to three different genera- Halobacterium, Haloarcula and Haloferax, were isolated from Kandla salt pans. The isolates had an optimum requirement of 25% NaCl for growth. Increase in organic solvent tolerance of isolates was observed at higher NaCl concentrations. Among the three isolates Halobacterium sp. SP1(1) was found to be more tolerant than Haloarcula sp. SP2(2) and Haloferax sp. SP1(2a). The extracellular protease of Halobacterium sp. SP1(1) showed higher solvent tolerance compared to the organism itself. The enzyme was highly tolerant to toluene, xylene, n-decane, n-dodecane and n-undecane, majority of which are frequently used in paints. These findings may help in understanding the mechanism of organic solvent tolerance in halophilic archaea and their application in antifouling coatings. Also, best to our knowledge the present study is the first report on organic solvent tolerance of haloarchaeal extracellular protease.
The salt tolerant yeast Zygosaccharomyces rouxii possesses two plasma-membrane Na+/H+-antiporters (ZrNha1p and ZrSod2-22p) playing different roles in cation homeostasis and cell physiology.	Antiporters exporting Na(+) and K(+) in exchange for protons are conserved among yeast species. The only exception so far has been Zygosaccharomyces rouxii, an osmotolerant species closely related to Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Z. rouxii was described as possessing one plasma-membrane antiporter transporting only Na(+) (ZrSod2-22p in the CBS 732(T) type strain). We report the characterization of a second gene, ZrNHA1, encoding a new K(+)(Na(+))/H(+)-antiporter capable of both K(+) and Na(+) export. Synteny analyses suggested that ZrSOD2-22 originated by single duplication of the ZrNHA1 gene. Substrate specificities and transport properties of ZrNha1p and ZrSod2-22p were compared upon heterologous expression in S. cerevisiae, and then directly in Z. rouxii. Deletion mutants and phenotype analyses revealed that ZrSod2-22 antiporter is important for Na(+) detoxification, probably together with ZrEna1 ATPase; ZrNha1p is indispensable to maintain potassium homeostasis and ZrEna1p is not, in contrast to the situation in S. cerevisiae, involved in this function.
Bioengineering plant resistance to abiotic stresses by the global calcium signal system.	Considerable progresses have taken place both in the methodology available to study changes in intracellular cytosolic calcium and in our understanding of calcium signaling cascades. It is generally accepted that the global calcium signal system functions importantly in coping with plant abiotic stresses, especially drought stress, which has been proved further by the recent transgenic and molecular breeding reports under soil water deficits. In plant cells, calcium plays roles as a universal transducer coupling a wide range of extracellular stimuli with intracellular responses. Different extracellular stimuli trigger specific calcium signatures: dynamics, amplitude and duration of calcium transients specify the nature, implication and intensity of stimuli. Calcium-binding proteins (sensors) play a critical role in decoding calcium signatures and transducing signals by activating specific targets and corresponding metabolic pathways. Calmodulin (CAM) is a calcium sensor known to regulate the activity of many mammalian proteins, whose targets in plants are now being identified. Higher plants possess a rapidly growing list of CAM targets with a variety of cellular functions. Nevertheless, many targets appear to be unique to higher plant cells and remain characterized, calling for a concerted effort from plant and animal scientists to elucidate their functions. To date, three major classes of plant calcium signals encoding elements in the calcium signal system, including calcium-permeable ion channels,Ca(2)+/ H(+) antiporters and Ca(2)+-ATPases, are responsible for drought stress signal transduction directly or indirectly. This review summarizes the current knowledge of calcium signals involved in plant abiotic stresses and presents suggestions for future focus areas of study.
Osmoadaptation mechanisms in prokaryotes: distribution of compatible solutes.	Microorganisms respond to osmotic stress mostly by accumulating compatible solutes, either by uptake from the medium or by de novo synthesis. These osmotically active molecules preserve the positive turgor pressure required for cell division. The diversity of compatible solutes is large but falls into a few major chemical categories; they are usually small organic molecules such as amino acids or their derivatives, and carbohydrates or their derivatives. Some are widely distributed in nature while others seem to be exclusively present in specific groups of organisms. This review discusses the diversity and distribution of known classes of compatible solutes found in prokaryotes as well as the increasing knowledge of the genes and pathways involved in their synthesis. The alternative roles of some archetypal compatible solutes not subject to osmoregulatory constraints are also discussed.
Role of organic osmolytes in adaptation of renal cells to high osmolality.	Kidney cells accumulate organic osmolytes in order to protect themselves from the high concentrations of NaCl and urea in the blood and interstitial fluid of the renal medulla. The renal medullary organic osmolytes are sorbitol, inositol, betaine and GPC. The concentrations of these solutes in renal medullary NaCl and urea concentration, as summarized in Fig. 8 (the putative controlled steps are highlighted). Sorbitol accumulates by synthesis from glucose, catalyzed by aldose reductase. Hypertonicity increases the transcription of the gene that encodes this enzyme. GPC is synthesized from choline, and the amount retained apparently may be controlled by the activity of GPC diesterase, an enzyme that catabolizes GPC. Inositol and betaine are taken up from the medium by sodium-dependent transport, and this transport is increased by hypertonicity. Control of these processes is slow (hours to days), but a decrease in tonicity causes a transient, rapid efflux of the solutes, which prevents the cells from becoming overly distended. Similar strategies are used by all types of cells, including bacteria and those in plants and animals, that can adapt to hyperosmotic stress.
Stimulation of NaCl reabsorption by antidiuretic hormone in the cortical thick ascending limb of Henle's loop of the mouse.	The effect of antidiuretic hormone (ADH) on transepithelial Na+ Cl-, Ca2+ and Mg2+ net fluxes (JNa, JCl, JMg, JCa) was investigated in isolated perfused cortical thick ascending limb segments (cTAL) of the mouse nephron, using the microperfusion technique and the electron microprobe analysis to determine the ionic composition of the collected tubular fluid. Simultaneously, the transepithelial potential difference (PDte) and the transepithelial resistance (Rte) were recorded. Prior to the flux measurements cTAL segments were perfused for one hour. During this equilibration period PDte decreased significantly from +19.9 +/- 1.6 to +14.9 +/- 1.1 mV and Rte increased from 30.6 +/- 3.5 omega cm2 to 38.8 +/- 2.4 omega cm2 (n = 7), reflecting a decline in NaCl transport. After ADH was added to the bath solution at 10(-10) mol.l-1, PDte increased from +14.4 +/- 1.1 to +18.0 +/- 1.5 mV, accompanied by a rise in JNa and JCl from 205 +/- 11 to 273 +/- 19 and from 216 +/- 12 to 283 +/- 21 pmol.min-1.mm-1 (n = 7), respectively. JCa and JMg also increased from 0.81 +/- 0.07 to 1.50 +/- 0.12 and from 0.43 +/- 0.11 to 0.76 +/- 0.08 pmol.min-1.mm-1 (n = 7), respectively. All these effects were fully reversible after withdrawal of the hormone. In conclusion our data indicate that ADH stimulates divalent cation transport and NaCl transport in the cortical thick ascending limb of Henle's loop of the mouse.
Effect of salt acclimation on digitalis-like compounds in the toad.	Digitalis-like compounds (DLC) were shown to be a normal constituent of the skin and plasma of toads. In order to assess the possible physiological role of these compounds in the toad, their levels were determined in the brain, plasma and skin following acclimation in different NaCl solutions. We demonstrate that an increase in salt concentrations in the animal medium from 0 to 1.2% decreased the levels of DLC in the brain by 50% without altering significantly its levels in the plasma and skin. An increase in medium salt concentration to 1.5% resulted in a 50% increase of DLC levels in the skin without changing its levels in the plasma or brain. These results suggest that skin and brain DLC may participate in the long-term salt and water homeostasis in the toad, while the plasma compound either participates in the short-term regulations of salt and water homeostasis or have some other, unknown, function.
Maximum urine concentrating capability in a mathematical model of the inner medulla of the rat kidney.	In a mathematical model of the urine concentrating mechanism of the inner medulla of the rat kidney, a nonlinear optimization technique was used to estimate parameter sets that maximize the urine-to-plasma osmolality ratio (U/P) while maintaining the urine flow rate within a plausible physiologic range. The model, which used a central core formulation, represented loops of Henle turning at all levels of the inner medulla and a composite collecting duct (CD). The parameters varied were: water flow and urea concentration in tubular fluid entering the descending thin limbs and the composite CD at the outer-inner medullary boundary; scaling factors for the number of loops of Henle and CDs as a function of medullary depth; location and increase rate of the urea permeability profile along the CD; and a scaling factor for the maximum rate of NaCl transport from the CD. The optimization algorithm sought to maximize a quantity E that equaled U/P minus a penalty function for insufficient urine flow. Maxima of E were sought by changing parameter values in the direction in parameter space in which E increased. The algorithm attained a maximum E that increased urine osmolality and inner medullary concentrating capability by 37.5% and 80.2%, respectively, above base-case values; the corresponding urine flow rate and the concentrations of NaCl and urea were all within or near reported experimental ranges. Our results predict that urine osmolality is particularly sensitive to three parameters: the urea concentration in tubular fluid entering the CD at the outer-inner medullary boundary, the location and increase rate of the urea permeability profile along the CD, and the rate of decrease of the CD population (and thus of CD surface area) along the cortico-medullary axis.
Adaptation of Corynebacterium glutamicum to salt-stress conditions.	Corynebacterium glutamicum is one of the biotechnologically most important microorganisms because of its ability to enrich amino acids extracellularly. Hence, C. glutamicum requires effective adaptation strategies against both hypo- and hyperosmotic stress. We give a comprehensive and coherent outline about the quantitative dynamics of C. glutamicum during adaptation to hyperosmotic stress at the transcript and protein levels. The osmolyte carrier ProP, playing a pivotal role in hyperosmotic stress defence, exhibits the strongest up-regulation of all proteins. A conspicuously regulated group comprises proteins involved in lipid biosynthesis of the cell envelope. This is in accordance with our observation of a more viscous and stickier cell envelope, which is supported by the findings of an altered lipid composition. Together with our results, showing that several transporters were down-regulated, this membrane adaptation appears to be one of C. glutamicum's major protection strategies against hyperosmotic stress. In addition, we demonstrate that no oxidative stress and no iron limitation occur during salt stress contrary to former postulations. Ultimately, it is remarkable that various proteins with divergent mRNA-protein dynamics and regulation have been observed. This leads to the assumption that there are still unknown mechanisms in between the bacterial transcription, translation and post-translation and that these are waiting to be unravelled.
Cftr and ENaC ion channels mediate NaCl absorption in the mouse submandibular gland.	Cystic fibrosis is caused by mutations in CFTR, the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator gene. Disruption of CFTR-mediated anion conductance results in defective fluid and electrolyte movement in the epithelial cells of organs such as the pancreas, airways and sweat glands, but the function of CFTR in salivary glands is unclear. Salivary gland acinar cells produce an isotonic, plasma-like fluid, which is subsequently modified by the ducts to produce a hypotonic, NaCl-depleted final saliva. In the present study we investigated whether submandibular salivary glands (SMGs) in F508 mice (Cftr(F/F)) display ion transport defects characteristic of cystic fibrosis in other tissues. Immunolocalization and whole-cell recordings demonstrated that Cftr and the epithelial Na(+) (ENaC) channels are co-expressed in the apical membrane of submandibular duct cells, consistent with the significantly higher saliva [NaCl] observed in vivo in Cftr(F/F) mice. In contrast, Cftr and ENaC channels were not detected in acinar cells, nor was saliva production affected in Cftr(F/F) mice, implying that Cftr contributes little to the fluid secretion process in the mouse SMG. To identify the source of the NaCl absorption defect in Cftr(F/F) mice, saliva was collected from ex vivo perfused SMGs. Cftr(F/F) glands secreted saliva with significantly increased [NaCl]. Moreover, pharmacological inhibition of either Cftr or ENaC in the ex vivo SMGs mimicked the Cftr(F/F) phenotype. In summary, our results demonstrate that NaCl absorption requires and is likely to be mediated by functionally dependent Cftr and ENaC channels localized to the apical membranes of mouse salivary gland duct cells.
FURO/CAP: a protocol for sodium intake sensitization.	We investigated if a history of FURO/CAP, a protocol that increases brain angiotensin II (ANG II), sensitizes or enhances sodium intake. A subcutaneous injection of the diuretic furosemide (FURO, 10mg/kg) was combined with a converting enzyme inhibitor captopril (CAP, 5mg/kg) to induce a short latency stimulated sodium (0.3M NaCl) and water intake in a 2h FURO/CAP test. Repeated injections of only FURO/CAP, separated by one-week interval, enhanced stimulated and spontaneous (daily) sodium intake. Stimulated fluid intake was completely suppressed when FURO/CAP was combined with two intraperitoneal injections of the ANG II type-1 receptor antagonist losartan (10, 20, or 40 mg/kg each) given within 1h prior to the FURO/CAP test. Losartan reduced by only 35% the FURO/CAP-induced natriuresis. A history of FURO/CAP, FURO/CAP+losartan (all doses), or vehicle produced similar stimulated fluid intake when all animals received only FURO/CAP in the third final FURO/CAP test. However, a history of vehicle or FURO/CAP+losartan 10mg/kg precluded the enhancement in spontaneous sodium intake after the third final FURO/CAP. The FURO/CAP combined with losartan (all doses) also precluded the spontaneous sodium intake enhancement in the weeks that preceded the third final FURO/CAP test. A history of only FURO/CAP, but not vehicle, also enhanced water deprivation-induced sodium appetite. The results suggest that a history of FURO/CAP enhances stimulated and spontaneous sodium intake, as well as water deprivation-induced sodium appetite, and reinforce the role of ANG II as a peptide that mediates long-term effects on behavior.
A study of membrane potential across isolated fruit cuticles for NaCl and CaCl2 solutions.	Fixed charge density and ionic diffusion ratio in an isolated tomato fruit cuticular membrane have been estimated from membrane potential measurements for NaCl and CaCl2 electrolyte solutions. The values of the parameters studied show marked differences in the electrical behaviour of the electrolytes, and evidence the asymmetric character of the cuticular membrane. While the membrane potential values for NaCl solutions can be explained in terms of a Donnan potential plus diffusion potentials, for CaCl2 solutions the membrane potential values agree very well with the diffusion potential. These facts could be explained by taking into account some structural features of the cuticular membrane.
Synergistic effects of sodium chloride, glucose, and temperature on biofilm formation by Listeria monocytogenes serotype 1/2a and 4b strains.	Biofilm formation by Listeria monocytogenes is generally associated with its persistence in the food-processing environment. Serotype 1/2a strains make up more than 50% of the total isolates recovered from food and the environment, while serotype 4b strains are most often associated with major outbreaks of human listeriosis. Using a microplate assay with crystal violet staining, we examined biofilm formation by 18 strains of each serotype in tryptic soy broth with varying concentrations of glucose (from 0.25% to 10.0%, wt/vol), sodium chloride (from 0.5% to 7.0%, wt/vol) and ethanol (from 1% to 5.0%, vol/vol), and at different temperatures (22.5 degrees C, 30 degrees C, and 37 degrees C). A synergistic effect on biofilm formation was observed for glucose, sodium chloride, and temperature. The serotype 1/2a strains generally formed higher-density biofilms than the 4b strains under most conditions tested. Interestingly, most serotype 4b strains had a higher growth rate than the 1/2a strains, suggesting that the growth rate may not be directly related to the capacity for biofilm formation. Crystal violet was found to stain both bacterial cells and biofilm matrix material. The enhancement in biofilm formation by environmental factors was apparently due to the production of extracellular polymeric substances instead of the accumulation of viable biofilm cells.
Intracellular consequences of SOS1 deficiency during salt stress.	A mutation of AtSOS1 (Salt Overly Sensitive 1), a plasma membrane Na(+)/H(+)-antiporter in Arabidopsis thaliana, leads to a salt-sensitive phenotype accompanied by the death of root cells under salt stress. Intracellular events and changes in gene expression were compared during a non-lethal salt stress between the wild type and a representative SOS1 mutant, atsos1-1, by confocal microscopy using ion-specific fluorophores and by quantitative RT-PCR. In addition to the higher accumulation of sodium ions, atsos1-1 showed inhibition of endocytosis, abnormalities in vacuolar shape and function, and changes in intracellular pH compared to the wild type in root tip cells under stress. Quantitative RT-PCR revealed a dramatically faster and higher induction of root-specific Ca(2+) transporters, including several CAXs and CNGCs, and the drastic down-regulation of genes involved in pH-homeostasis and membrane potential maintenance. Differential regulation of genes for functions in intracellular protein trafficking in atsos1-1 was also observed. The results suggested roles of the SOS1 protein, in addition to its function as a Na(+)/H(+) antiporter, whose disruption affected membrane traffic and vacuolar functions possibly by controlling pH homeostasis in root cells.
Bacillus deserti sp. nov., a novel bacterium isolated from the desert of Xinjiang, China.	A Gram-positive, rod-shaped, motile and spore-forming bacterium, designated ZLD-8(T), was isolated from a desert soil sample collected from Xinjiang Province in north-west China, and subjected to a polyphasic taxonomic analysis. This isolate grew optimally at 30C and pH 7.0. It grew with 0-4% NaCl (optimum, 0-1%). Comparative 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis showed that strain ZLD-8(T) was closely related to members of the genus Bacillus, exhibiting the highest 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity to Bacillus kribbensis DSM 17871(T) (98.0%). The levels of 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity with respect to other Bacillus species with validly published names were less than 96.3%. The DNA G+C content of strain ZLD-8(T) was 40.1mol%. The strain contained MK-7 as the predominant menaquinone. The diagnostic diamino acid in the cell-wall peptidoglycan was meso-diaminopimelic acid. The major polar lipids were diphosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylglycerol and phosphatidylethanolamine. The major fatty acids (>5% of total fatty acids) were anteiso-C15:0 (39.56%), iso-C14:0 (25.69%), C16:1 7c alcohol (10.13%) and iso-C15:0 (5.27%). These chemotaxonomic results supported the affiliation of strain ZLD-8(T) to the genus Bacillus. However, low DNA-DNA relatedness values and distinguishing phenotypic characteristics allowed genotypic and phenotypic differentiation of strain ZLD-8(T) from recognized Bacillus species. On the basis of the polyphasic evidence presented, strain ZLD-8(T) is considered to represent a novel species of the genus Bacillus, for which the name Bacillus deserti sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is ZLD-8(T) (=CCTCC AB 207173(T)=KCTC 13246(T)).
Root-specific transcript profiling of contrasting rice genotypes in response to salinity stress.	Elevated salinity imposes osmotic and ion toxicity stresses on living cells and requires a multitude of responses in order to enable plant survival. Building on earlier work profiling transcript levels in rice (Oryza sativa) shoots of FL478, a salt-tolerant indica recombinant inbred line, and IR29, a salt-sensitive cultivar, transcript levels were compared in roots of these two accessions as well as in the roots of two additional salt-tolerant indica genotypes, the landrace Pokkali and the recombinant inbred line IR63731. The aim of this study was to compare transcripts in the sensitive and the tolerant lines in order to identify genes likely to be involved in plant salinity tolerance, rather than in responses to salinity per se. Transcript profiles of several gene families with known links to salinity tolerance are described (e.g. HKTs, NHXs). The putative function of a set of genes identified through their salt responsiveness, transcript levels, and/or chromosomal location (i.e. underneath QTLs for salinity tolerance) is also discussed. Finally, the parental origin of the Saltol region in FL478 is further investigated. Overall, the dataset presented appears to be robust and it seems likely that this system could provide a reliable strategy for the discovery of novel genes involved in salinity tolerance.
A mathematical model of the urine concentrating mechanism in the rat renal medulla. I. Formulation and base-case results.	A new, region-based mathematical model of the urine concentrating mechanism of the rat renal medulla was used to investigate the significance of transport and structural properties revealed in anatomic studies. The model simulates preferential interactions among tubules and vessels by representing concentric regions that are centered on a vascular bundle in the outer medulla (OM) and on a collecting duct cluster in the inner medulla (IM). Particularly noteworthy features of this model include highly urea-permeable and water-impermeable segments of the long descending limbs and highly urea-permeable ascending thin limbs. Indeed, this is the first detailed mathematical model of the rat urine concentrating mechanism that represents high long-loop urea permeabilities and that produces a substantial axial osmolality gradient in the IM. That axial osmolality gradient is attributable to the increasing urea concentration gradient. The model equations, which are based on conservation of solutes and water and on standard expressions for transmural transport, were solved to steady state. Model simulations predict that the interstitial NaCl and urea concentrations in adjoining regions differ substantially in the OM but not in the IM. In the OM, active NaCl transport from thick ascending limbs, at rates inferred from the physiological literature, resulted in a concentrating effect such that the intratubular fluid osmolality of the collecting duct increases ~2.5 times along the OM. As a result of the separation of urea from NaCl and the subsequent mixing of that urea and NaCl in the interstitium and vasculature of the IM, collecting duct fluid osmolality further increases by a factor of ~1.55 along the IM.
A mathematical model of the urine concentrating mechanism in the rat renal medulla. II. Functional implications of three-dimensional architecture.	In a companion study [Layton AT. A mathematical model of the urine concentrating mechanism in the rat renal medulla. I. Formulation and base-case results. Am J Physiol Renal Physiol. (First published November 10, 2010). 10.1152/ajprenal.00203.2010] a region-based mathematical model was formulated for the urine concentrating mechanism in the renal medulla of the rat kidney. In the present study, we investigated model sensitivity to some of the fundamental structural assumptions. An unexpected finding is that the concentrating capability of this region-based model falls short of the capability of models that have radially homogeneous interstitial fluid at each level of only the inner medulla (IM) or of both the outer medulla and IM, but are otherwise analogous to the region-based model. Nonetheless, model results reveal the functional significance of several aspects of tubular segmentation and heterogeneity: 1) the exclusion of ascending thin limbs that reach into the deep IM from the collecting duct clusters in the upper IM promotes urea cycling within the IM; 2) the high urea permeability of the lower IM thin limb segments allows their tubular fluid urea content to equilibrate with the surrounding interstitium; 3) the aquaporin-1-null terminal descending limb segments prevent water entry and maintain the transepithelial NaCl concentration gradient; 4) a higher thick ascending limb Na(+) active transport rate in the inner stripe augments concentrating capability without a corresponding increase in energy expenditure for transport; 5) active Na(+) reabsorption from the collecting duct elevates its tubular fluid urea concentration. Model calculations predict that these aspects of tubular segmentation and heterogeneity promote effective urine concentrating functions.
Channels and transporters in salivary glands.	According to the two-stage hypothesis, primary saliva, a NaCl-rich plasma-like isotonic fluid is secreted by salivary acinar cells and its ionic composition becomes modified in the duct system. The ducts secrete K(+) and HCO (3) (-) and reabsorb Na(+) and Cl(-) without any water movement, thus establishing a hypotonic final saliva. Salivary secretion depends on the coordinated action of several channels and transporters localized in the apical and basolateral membrane of acinar and duct cells. Early functional studies in perfused glands, followed by the molecular cloning of several transport proteins and the subsequent analysis of mutant mice, have greatly contributed to our understanding of salivary fluid and the electrolyte secretion process. With a few exceptions, most of the key channels and transporters involved in salivary secretion have now been identified and characterized. However, the picture that has emerged from all these studies is one of a complex molecular network characterized by redundancy for several transport proteins, compensatory mechanisms, and adaptive changes in health and disease. Current research is directed to the molecular interactions between the determinants and the ways in which they are regulated by extracellular signals and intracellular mediators. This review focuses on the functionally and molecularly best-characterized channels and transporters that are considered to be involved in transepithelial fluid and electrolyte transport in salivary glands.
Bioluminescence-based method for measuring assimilable organic carbon in pretreatment water for reverse osmosis membrane desalination.	A bioluminescence-based assimilable organic carbon (AOC) test was developed for determining the biological growth potential of seawater within the reverse osmosis desalination pretreatment process. The test uses Vibrio harveyi, a marine organism that exhibits constitutive luminescence and is nutritionally robust. AOC was measured in both a pilot plant and a full-scale desalination plant pretreatment.
Different physiological responses influenced by salinity in genetically related Dunaliella salina isolates.	An isolate of Dunaliella salina (DUNS-1) and other two isolates (DUNS-2 and DUNS-3), collected from coastal lagoons with 14 and 30% (w/v) of NaCl, respectively, were analyzed under different saline conditions. Glycerol (380 mg l(-1)) and carotene (5.9 mg l(-1)) contents for DUNS-2 were 0.3 and 10 times higher than DUNS-3, even though both isolates were collected from the same lagoon and share a similar ribosomal DNA sequence.
Staphylococcus aureus requires cardiolipin for survival under conditions of high salinity.	The ability of staphylococci to grow in a wide range of salt concentrations is well documented. In this study, we aimed to clarify the role of cardiolipin (CL) in the adaptation of Staphylococcus aureus to high salinity.
In vitro fluid dynamics of the Ahmed glaucoma valve modified with expanded polytetrafluoroethylene.	Long-term intraocular pressure reduction by glaucoma drainage devices (GDDs) is often limited by the fibrotic capsule that forms around them. Prior work demonstrates that modifying a GDD with a porous membrane promotes a vascularized and more permeable capsule. This work examines the in vitro fluid dynamics of the Ahmed valve after enclosing the outflow tract with a porous membrane of expanded polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE).
Response to saline stress and aquaporin expression in Azospirillum-inoculated barley seedlings.	The ability of two strains of Azospirillum brasilense to mitigate NaCl stress in barley plants was evaluated. Barley seedlings were inoculated and subjected to 200 mM NaCl for 18 days. Several days after NaCl treatment, a significant decline in biomass as well as in height was observed in uninoculated plants. However, smaller reductions in biomass and height were detected in plants inoculated with strain Az39. All the stressed plants showed significantly higher Na(+) but lower K(+) contents in their shoots. The growth rate of uninoculated plants was adversely affected by saline treatment, which was associated with higher putrescine content and lower levels of HvPIP2;1 transcripts in the roots. Azospirillum inoculation triggered the transcription of this gene. Our results suggest that barley plants inoculated with A. brasilense may be better prepared to thrive under saline conditions. To our knowledge, this is the first report showing an effect of Azospirillum inoculation on the expression of PIP2;1, a gene involved in the synthesis of root water channels.
The effect of light, salinity, and nitrogen availability on lipid production by Nannochloropsis sp.	We examined responses of batch cultures of the marine microalga Nannochloropsis sp. to combined alterations in salinity (13, 27, and 40 g/l NaCl) and light intensity (170 and 700 mol photons/m(2)s). Major growth parameters and lipid productivity (based on total fatty acid determination) were determined in nitrogen-replete and nitrogen-depleted cultures of an initial biomass of 0.8 and 1.4 g/l, respectively. On the nitrogen-replete medium, increases in light intensity and salinity increased the cellular content of dry weight and lipids due to enhanced formation of triacylglycerols (TAG). Maximum average productivity of ca. 410 mg TFA/l/d were obtained at 700 mol photons/m(2)s and 40 g/l NaCl within 7 days. Under stressful conditions, content of the major LC-PUFA, eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), was significantly reduced while TAG reached 25% of biomass. In contrast, lower salinity tended to improve major growth parameters, consistent with less variation in EPA contents. Combined higher salinity and light intensity was detrimental to lipid productivity under nitrogen starvation; biomass TFA content, and lipid productivity amounted for only 33% of DW and ca. 200 mg TFA/l/day, respectively. The highest biomass TFA content (ca. 47% DW) and average lipid productivity of ca. 360 mg TFA/l/day were achieved at 13 g/l NaCl and 700 mol photons/m(2)s. Our data further support selecting Nannochloropsis as promising microalgae for biodiesel production. Moreover, appropriate cultivation regimes may render Nannochloropsis microalgae to produce simultaneously major valuable components, EPA, and TAG, while sustaining relatively high biomass growth rates.
Sulfur-dependent respiration under extremely haloalkaline conditions in soda lake 'acetogens' and the description of Natroniella sulfidigena sp. nov.	Microbial sulfidogenesis is the main dissimilatory anaerobic process in anoxic sediments of extremely haloalkaline soda lakes. In soda lakes with a salinity >2 M of the total Na(+) sulfate reduction is depressed, while thiosulfate- and sulfur-dependent sulfidogenesis may still be very active. Anaerobic enrichments at pH 10 and a salinity of 2-4 M total Na(+) from sediments of hypersaline soda lakes with thiosulfate and elemental sulfur as electron acceptors and simple nonfermentable electron donors resulted in the isolation of two groups of haloalkaliphilic bacteria capable of dissimilatory sulfidogenesis. Both were closely related to obligately heterotrophic fermentative homoacetogens from soda lakes. The salt-tolerant alkaliphilic thiosulfate-reducing isolates were identified as representatives of Tindallia magadiensis, while the extremely natronophilic obligate sulfur/polysulfide-respiring strains belonged to the genus Natroniella and are proposed here as a novel species Natroniella sulfidigena. Despite the close phylogenetic relation to Natroniella acetigena, it drastically differed from the type strain phenotypically (chemolithoautotrophic and acetate-dependent sulfur respiration, absence of acetate as the final metabolic product). Apparently, in the absence of specialized respiratory sulfidogens, primarily fermentative bacteria that are well adapted to extreme salinity may take over an uncharacteristic ecological function. This finding, once again, exemplifies the importance of isolation and phenotypic investigation of pure cultures.
Asymmetric response of carbon metabolism at high and low salt stress in Vibrio sp. DSM14379.	Energy redistribution between growth and maintenance in salt-stressed cells is especially important for bacteria living in estuarine environments. In this study, Gram-negative bacterium Vibrio sp. DSM14379, isolated from the estuarine waters of the northern Adriatic Sea, was grown aerobically in a peptone-yeast extract medium with different salt concentrations (ranging from 0.3% to 10% (w/v) NaCl). Carbon flux through the central metabolic pathways was determined at low and high salt concentrations. At low salt concentrations, total endogenous respiration, dehydrogenase activity, and net intracellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP) concentration significantly increased, the phosphofructokinase and pyruvate kinase activity decreased, whereas glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activity remained unchanged. The carrying capacity of bacterial culture decreased dramatically, indicating a severe metabolic imbalance at low salt concentrations. At high salt concentrations, carrying capacity decreased gradually. There was a large increase in glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activity, which correlated with a 10-fold increase in concentration of osmoprotectant L-proline. There was no significant change of net intracellular ATP concentration, phosphofructokinase, or pyruvate kinase activity. The results indicate that Vibrio sp. DSM14379 central metabolic pathways respond to low and high salt concentrations asymmetrically; cells are better adapted to high salt concentrations. In addition, cells in the stationary phase can tolerate induced salt stress without a significant change in dehydrogenase activity or endogenous respiration for at least 1 h, but need to alter their macromolecular composition and carbon flux distribution for long-term survival.
Culturability and survival of marine, freshwater and clinical Pseudomonas aeruginosa.	Genetic typing of Pseudomonas aeruginosa isolated from the open ocean has revealed that marine strains form unique clusters. To clarify whether this genetic variation reflects differences in pattern of culturability and survival, a marine strain was compared with a freshwater strain and a clinical strain in microcosms with different levels of NaCl (0 to 7% [w/v]), pH (4.0 to 9.0) and temperature (-20, 0, 4, 25 and 37C) in both artificial seawater (ASW) and distilled water (DW). The viable but non-culturable (VBNC) state of P. aeruginosa was also monitored. The marine strain 1200 grew better at high NaCl and pH, whereas the freshwater strain 1030 did better at 0 to 3% NaCl and a pH of less than 7.0. The clinical strain 1564 grew best at neutral pH and 0% NaCl. No significant differences were observed among the strains in culturability at different temperatures. Like other bacteria, P. aeruginosa enters a VBNC state under stressful conditions. The marine P. aeruginosa isolate exhibits a unique pattern of culturability and survival which demonstrates a physiological adaptation to the ocean environment.
Identification of salt-tolerant Sinorhizobium sp. strain BL3 membrane proteins based on proteomics.	Sinorhizobium sp. BL3 is a salt-tolerant strain that can fix atmospheric nitrogen in symbiosis with leguminous host plants under salt-stress conditions. Since cell membranes are the first barrier to environmental change, it is interesting to explore the membrane proteins within this protective barrier under salt stress. The protein contents of membrane-enriched fractions obtained from BL3 were analyzed by nanoflow liquid chromatography interfaced with electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry. A total of 105 membrane proteins were identified. These proteins could be classified into 17 functional categories, the two biggest of which were energy production and conversion, and proteins not in clusters of orthologous groups (COGs). In addition, a comparative analysis of membrane proteins between salt-stressed and non-stressed BL3 cells was conducted using a membrane enrichment method and off-line SCX fractionation coupled to nanoLC-MS/MS. These techniques would be useful for further comparative analysis of membrane proteins that function in the response to environmental stress.
An alkaline phosphatase/phosphodiesterase, PhoD, induced by salt stress and secreted out of the cells of Aphanothece halophytica, a halotolerant cyanobacterium.	Alkaline phosphatases (APases) are important enzymes in organophosphate utilization. Three prokaryotic APase gene families, PhoA, PhoX, and PhoD, are known; however, their functional characterization in cyanobacteria largely remains to be clarified. In this study, we cloned the phoD gene from a halotolerant cyanobacterium, Aphanothece halophytica (phoD(Ap)). The deduced protein, PhoD(Ap), contains Tat consensus motifs and a peptidase cleavage site at the N terminus. The PhoD(Ap) enzyme was activated by Ca(2+) and exhibited APase and phosphodiesterase (APDase) activities. Subcellular localization experiments revealed the secretion and processing of PhoD(Ap) in a transformed cyanobacterium. Expression of the phoD(Ap) gene in A. halophytica cells was upregulated not only by phosphorus (P) starvation but also under salt stress conditions. Our results suggest that A. halophytica cells possess a PhoD that participates in the assimilation of P under salinity stress.
Brassinolide alleviates salt stress and increases antioxidant activity of cowpea plants (Vigna sinensis).	Soil salinity is one of the most severe factors limiting growth and physiological response in Vigna sinensis plants. Plant salt stress tolerance requires the activation of complex metabolic activities including antioxidative pathways, especially reactive oxygen species and scavenging systems within the cells which can contribute to continued growth under water stress. The present investigation was carried out to study the role of brassinolide in enhancing tolerance of cowpea plants to salt stress (NaCl). Treatment with 0.05ppm brassinolide as foliar spray mitigated salt stress by inducing enzyme activities responsible for antioxidation, e.g., superoxide dismutase, peroxidase, polyphenol oxidase, and detoxification as well as by elevating contents of ascorbic acid, tocopherol, and glutathione. On the other hand, total soluble proteins decreased with increasing NaCl concentrations in comparison with control plants. However, lipid peroxidation increased with increasing concentrations of NaCl. In addition to, the high concentrations of NaCl (100 and 150mM) decreased total phenol of cowpea plants as being compared with control plants. SDS-PAGE of protein revealed that NaCl treatments alone or in combination with 0.05ppm brassinolide were associated with the disappearance of some bands or appearance of unique ones in cowpea plants. Electrophoretic studies of -esterase, -esterase, polyphenol oxidase, peroxidase, acid phosphatase, and superoxide dismutase isoenzymes showed wide variations in their intensities and densities among all treatments.
Roseivivax isoporae sp. nov., isolated from a reef-building coral, and emended description of the genus Roseivivax.	A bacterial strain, isolated from a sample of reef-building coral (Isopora palifera) collected off the coast of southern Taiwan, was characterized using a polyphasic taxonomic approach. The strain, designated sw-2(T), was Gram-staining-negative, aerobic, rod-shaped and motile, with subpolar flagella, and formed greyish pink colonies. Phylogenetic analyses based on 16S rRNA gene sequences indicated that strain sw-2(T) was most closely related to Roseivivax halodurans Och 239(T) (97.4 % sequence similarity) and Roseivivax halotolerans Och 210(T) (96.4 %). The novel strain did not require NaCl for growth and exhibited optimal growth at 35-40 C, at pH 7.5-8.0 and with 3-7 % (w/v) NaCl. It produced bacteriochlorophyll a under aerobic conditions. Summed feature 8 (C(18:1)7c and/or C(18:1)6c; 63.7 %) predominated in the cellular fatty acid profile. The novel strain's major respiratory quinone was ubiquinone Q-10 and its genomic DNA G+C content was 68.8 mol%. The polar lipid profile consisted of a mixture of phosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylcholine, diphosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidyldimethylethanolamine, sulfo-quinovosyl diacylglycerol and three uncharacterized phospholipids. The level of DNA-DNA relatedness between strain sw-2(T) and Roseivivax halodurans Och 239(T) was only 15.0 %. The results of physiological and biochemical tests allowed the clear phenotypic differentiation of the novel strain from all established species of the genus Roseivivax. Based on the genotypic, phenotypic and chemotaxonomic data, strain sw-2(T) represents a novel species in the genus Roseivivax, for which the name Roseivivax isoporae sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is sw-2(T) ( = LMG 25204(T) = BCRC 17966(T)).
Halomicrobium zhouii sp. nov., a halophilic archaeon from a marine solar saltern.	A halophilic archaeon, strain TBN51(T), was isolated from a marine solar saltern in Jiangsu, China. The colonies were red-pigmented and the cells were pleomorphic, motile and Gram-staining-negative. The strain was able to grow at 20-55 C (optimum 42 C), in the presence of 1.4-5.1 M NaCl (optimum 2.6 M), with 0-1.0 M MgCl(2) (optimum 0.05 M) and at pH 5.5-9.5 (optimum pH 7.0). Cells lysed in distilled water; the minimal NaCl concentration to prevent such lysis was 8 % (w/v). The major polar lipids of strain TBN51(T) were phosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylglycerol phosphate methyl ester, phosphatidylglycerol sulfate and an unidentified glycolipid. The latter lipid and a minor glycolipid also detected in the novel strain were chromatographically identical to sulfated and non-sulfated mannosyl glucosyl diether, respectively. Analysis revealed that strain TBN51(T) had three dissimilar 16S rRNA genes. Phylogenetic analysis based on the sequences of these genes indicated that the novel strain was most closely related to Halomicrobium mukohataei JCM 9738(T) (89.2-94.8 % sequence similarity) and Halomicrobium katesii DSM 19301(T) (88.8-94.8 %). In similar comparisons of rpoB' gene sequences, strain TBN51(T) also appeared most closely related to Hmc. mukohataei JCM 9738(T) (88.5 % sequence similarity) and Hmc. katesii DSM 19301(T) (88.1 %). The genomic DNA G+C content of strain TBN51(T) was 69.1 mol%. The results of DNA-DNA hybridizations indicated that strain TBN51(T) represented a novel species since it showed relatedness values of only 23 % with Hmc. mukohataei JCM 9738(T) and 21 % with Hmc. katesii DSM 19301(T). It was concluded that strain TBN51(T) represents a novel species of the genus Halomicrobium, for which the name Halomicrobium zhouii sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is TBN51(T) ( = CGMCC 1.10457(T) = JCM 17095(T)).
Simulation of flow field during irrigation/aspiration in phacoemulsification using computational fluid dynamics.	To provide the details of the flow field in the anterior chamber during irrigation/aspiration (I/A) in phacoemulsification using computational fluid-dynamics methods.
Transport of large organic ions through syringomycin channels in the membranes containing dipole modifiers]	The effect of the membrane dipole potential (Phid) on a conductance and a steady-state number of functioning channels formed by cyclic lipodepsipeptide syringomycin E (SRE) in bilayer lipid membranes made from phosphocholine and bathed in 0.4 M solution of sodium salts of aspartate, gluconate and chloride was shown. The magnitude of Phid was varied with the introduction to membrane bathing solutions of phloretin, which reduces the Phid, and RH 421, increasing the Phid. It was established that in all studied systems the increase in the membrane dipole potential cause a decrease in the steady-state number of open channels. In the systems containing sodium salts of aspartate (Asp) or gluconate (Glc), changes in the number of functioning channels are in an order of magnitude smaller than in systems containing sodium chloride. At the same time, the conductance (g) of single SRE-channels on the membranes bathed in NaCI solution increases with the increase in Phid, and in the systems containing NaAsp or NaGlc the conductance of single channels does not depend on the Phid. The latter is due to the lack of cation/anion selectivity of the SRE-channels in these systems. The different channel-forming activity of SRE in the experimental systems is defined by the gating charge of the channel and the partition coefficient of the dipole modifiers between the lipid and aqueous phases.
Phytophthora gemini sp. nov., a new species isolated from the halophilic plant Zostera marina in the Netherlands.	Eight strains belonging to the Oomycete genus Phytophthora were isolated from Zostera marina (seagrass) in The Netherlands over the past 25 y. Based on morphology, isozymes, temperature-growth relationships and ITS sequences, these strains were found to belong to two different Phytophthora species. Five strains, four of them isolated from rotting seeds and one isolated from decaying plants, could not be assigned to a known species and hence belong to a new species for which we propose the name Phytophthora gemini sp. nov. Three strains were isolated from decaying plants and were identified as Phytophthora inundata, thereby expanding the known habitat range of this species from fresh to brackish-saline areas. The possible role of both Phytophthora species in the decline of Z. marina in The Netherlands and the evolutionary significance of the presence of Phytophthora species in marine environments are discussed.
Halovenus aranensis gen. nov., sp. nov., an extremely halophilic archaeon from Aran-Bidgol salt lake.	A novel red-pigmented halophilic archaeon, strain EB27(T), was isolated from Aran-Bidgol salt lake, a hypersaline playa in Iran. Cells of strain EB27(T) were non-motile and pleomorphic (rods to triangular or disc-shaped). Strain EB27(T) required at least 2.5 M NaCl and 0.1 M MgCl(2) for growth. Optimal growth was achieved at 4 M NaCl and 0.5 M MgCl(2). The optimum pH and temperature for growth were pH 7.5 and 40 C; it was able to grow at pH 6.0-8.0 and 25-50 C. 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis showed that strain EB27(T) is a member of the family Halobacteriaceae; however, levels of 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity were as low as 90.0, 89.3 and 89.1 % to the most closely related haloarchaeal taxa, namely Halalkalicoccus tibetensis DS12(T), Halosimplex carlsbadense 2-9-1(T) and Halorhabdus utahensis AX-2(T), respectively. The DNA G+C content of strain EB27(T) was 61 mol%. Strain EB27(T) contained phosphatidylglycerol and phosphatidylglycerol phosphate methyl ester, common phospholipids found in haloarchaea, together with two minor phospholipids. The only quinone present was MK-8(II-H(2)). Physiological, biochemical and phylogenetic differences between strain EB27(T) and recognized genera of extremely halophilic archaea suggest that this strain represents a novel species in a new genus within the family Halobacteriaceae, for which the name Halovenus aranensis gen. nov., sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain of Halovenus aranensis, the type species of the new genus, is strain EB27(T) ( = IBRC-M 10015(T) = CGMCC 1.11001(T)).
Methanolinea mesophila sp. nov., a hydrogenotrophic methanogen isolated from rice field soil, and proposal of the archaeal family Methanoregulaceae fam. nov. within the order Methanomicrobiales.	A novel mesophilic, hydrogenotrophic methanogen, designated strain TNR(T), was isolated from an anaerobic, propionate-degradation enrichment culture that was originally established from a rice field soil sample from Taiwan. Cells were non-motile rods, 2.0-6.5 m long by 0.3 m wide. Filamentous (up to about 100 m) and coccoid (about 1 m in diameter) cells were also observed in cultures in the late exponential phase of growth. Strain TNR(T) grew at 20-40 C (optimally at 37 C), at pH 6.5-7.4 (optimally at pH 7.0) and in the presence of 0-25 g NaCl l(-1) (optimally at 0 g NaCl l(-1)). The strain utilized H(2)/CO(2) and formate for growth and produced methane. The G+C content of the genomic DNA was 56.4 mol%. Based on sequences of both the 16S rRNA gene and the methanogen-specific marker gene mcrA, strain TNR(T) was related most closely to Methanolinea tarda NOBI-1(T); levels of sequence similarities were 94.8 and 86.4 %, respectively. The 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity indicates that strain TNR(T) and M. tarda NOBI-1(T) represent different species within the same genus. This is supported by shared phenotypic properties, including substrate usage and cell morphology, and differences in growth temperature. Based on these genetic and phenotypic properties, strain TNR(T) is considered to represent a novel species of the genus Methanolinea, for which the name Methanolinea mesophila sp. nov. is proposed; the type strain is TNR(T) ( = NBRC 105659(T) = DSM 23604(T)). In addition, we also suggest family status for the E1/E2 group within the order Methanomicrobiales, for which the name Methanoregulaceae fam. nov. is proposed; the type genus of family is Methanoregula.
Genomic analysis of phospholipase D family and characterization of GmPLDs in soybean (Glycine max).	Phospholipase D (PLD) and its product phosphatidic acid play important roles in the regulation of plant growth, development, and stress responses. The genome database analysis has revealed PLD family in Arabidopsis, rice, poplar and grape. In this study, we report a genomic analysis of 18 putative soybean (Glycine max) PLD genes (GmPLDs), which exist in the 14 of 20 chromosomes. GmPLDs were grouped into six types, (3), (4), , (5), (2), and (3), based on gene architectures, protein domains, evolutionary relationship, and sequence identity. These GmPLDs contained two HKD domains, PX/PH domains (for GmPLDs), and C2 domain (for the other GmPLDs). The expression patterns analyzed by quantitative reverse transcription PCR demonstrated that GmPLDs were expressed differentially in various tissues. GmPLD1, 2, and 2 were highly expressed in most tissues, whereas GmPLD5 was only expressed in flowers and GmPLD1 was predominantly expressed in flowers and early pods. The expression of GmPLD1 and 2 was increased and that of GmPLD was decreased by salt stress. GmPLD1 protein expressed in E. coli was active under the reaction conditions for both PLD and PLD, hydrolyzing the common membrane phospholipids phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine, and phosphatidylglycerol. The genomic analysis for soybean PLD family provides valuable data for further identity and characterization of their functions.
Molecular cloning and characterization of plasma membrane- and vacuolar-type Na/H antiporters of an alkaline-salt-tolerant monocot, Puccinellia tenuiflora.	A better understanding of salt tolerance in plants might lead to the genetic engineering of crops that can grow in saline soils. Here we cloned and characterized plasma membrane and vacuolar Na/H antiporters of a monocotyledonous alkaline-tolerant halophyte, Puccinellia tenuiflora. The predicted amino acid sequence of the transporters were very similar to those of orthologs in monocotyledonous crops. Expression analysis showed that (1) NHA was more strongly induced by NaCl in the roots of P. tenuiflora while in rice it was rather induced in the shoots, suggesting that the role of NHA in salt excretion from the roots partly accounts for the difference in the tolerance of the two species, and that (2) NHXs were specifically induced by NaHCO but not by NaCl in the roots of both species, suggesting that vacuolar-type Na/H antiporters play roles in pH regulation under alkaline salt conditions. Overexpression of the antiporters resulted in increased tolerance of shoots to NaCl and roots to NaHCO. Overexpression lines exhibited a lower Na content and a higher K content in shoots under NaCl treatments, leading to a higher Na/H ratio.
Visualization of irrigation fluid flow and calculation of its velocity distribution in the anterior chamber by particle image velocimetry.	To visualize irrigation fluid flow and calculate its velocity distribution in the anterior chamber during phacoemulsification by particle image velocimetry.
A novel xylanase with tolerance to ethanol, salt, protease, SDS, heat, and alkali from actinomycete Lechevalieria sp. HJ3.	A xylanase-coding gene (xynAHJ3, 1,104 bp) was cloned from Lechevalieria sp. HJ3 harbored in a saline soil sampled from Heijing town, aka the "town of salt", on the famous "Silk Route of the South". The gene encodes a 367-residue polypeptide (XynAHJ3) with the highest identity of 74.0 % with the endoxylanase from Streptomyces thermocarboxydus HY-15. The coding sequence of the mature protein (without the predicted signal peptide from M1 to S22) of xynAHJ3 was expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3). The activity of the purified recombinant XynAHJ3 (rXynAHJ3) was apparently optimal at 70 C and pH 6.0, retained greater than 55 % xylanase activity at a concentration of 0.2-2.0 M Na(+) and 26 % at 4.0 M Na(+) (pH 7.5 20 C), and showed 110.2 and 44.2 % xylanase activities in the presence of 100 mM SDS (pH 6.0 37 C) and 10 % ethanol (pH 5.0 37 C), respectively. rXynAHJ3 activity was stable at 50 C and pH 4.0-11.0 for more than 60 min, in trypsin or proteinase K at 20 C for 24 h (pH 7.5), in 10 % ethanol (v/v) (pH 5.0) at 30 or 37 C for 72 h, in 80 % ethanol (v/v) for 1 h, and in 0.6 or 3 M NaCl (20 C, pH 7.5) for 72 h. Compared with the majority of xylanases with tolerance to ethanol, salt, SDS, or protease (K (m) values of 1.42-15.1 mg ml(-1)), rXynAHJ3 showed a low K (m) value (0.8 mg ml(-1)) and showed only limited amino acid sequence identity with those other xylanases (less than 47 %).
Abundance, distribution, and activity of Fe(II)-oxidizing and Fe(III)-reducing microorganisms in hypersaline sediments of Lake Kasin, southern Russia.	The extreme osmotic conditions prevailing in hypersaline environments result in decreasing metabolic diversity with increasing salinity. Various microbial metabolisms have been shown to occur even at high salinity, including photosynthesis as well as sulfate and nitrate reduction. However, information about anaerobic microbial iron metabolism in hypersaline environments is scarce. We studied the phylogenetic diversity, distribution, and metabolic activity of iron(II)-oxidizing and iron(III)-reducing Bacteria and Archaea in pH-neutral, iron-rich salt lake sediments (Lake Kasin, southern Russia; salinity, 348.6 g liter(-1)) using a combination of culture-dependent and -independent techniques. 16S rRNA gene clone libraries for Bacteria and Archaea revealed a microbial community composition typical for hypersaline sediments. Most-probable-number counts confirmed the presence of 4.26  10(2) to 8.32  10(3) iron(II)-oxidizing Bacteria and 4.16  10(2) to 2.13  10(3) iron(III)-reducing microorganisms per gram dry sediment. Microbial iron(III) reduction was detected in the presence of 5 M NaCl, extending the natural habitat boundaries for this important microbial process. Quantitative real-time PCR showed that 16S rRNA gene copy numbers of total Bacteria, total Archaea, and species dominating the iron(III)-reducing enrichment cultures (relatives of Halobaculum gomorrense, Desulfosporosinus lacus, and members of the Bacilli) were highest in an iron oxide-rich sediment layer. Combined with the presented geochemical and mineralogical data, our findings suggest the presence of an active microbial iron cycle at salt concentrations close to the solubility limit of NaCl.
The inner membrane histidine kinase EnvZ senses osmolality via helix-coil transitions in the cytoplasm.	Two-component systems mediate bacterial signal transduction, employing a membrane sensor kinase and a cytoplasmic response regulator (RR). Environmental sensing is typically coupled to gene regulation. Understanding how input stimuli activate kinase autophosphorylation remains obscure. The EnvZ/OmpR system regulates expression of outer membrane proteins in response to osmotic stress. To identify EnvZ conformational changes associated with osmosensing, we used HDXMS to probe the effects of osmolytes (NaCl, sucrose) on the cytoplasmic domain of EnvZ (EnvZ(c)). Increasing osmolality decreased deuterium exchange localized to the four-helix bundle containing the autophosphorylation site (His(243)). EnvZ(c) exists as an ensemble of multiple conformations and osmolytes favoured increased helicity. High osmolality increased autophosphorylation of His(243), suggesting that these two events are linked. In-vivo analysis showed that the cytoplasmic domain of EnvZ was sufficient for osmosensing, transmembrane domains were not required. Our results challenge existing claims of robustness in EnvZ/OmpR and support a model where osmolytes promote intrahelical H-bonding enhancing helix stabilization, increasing autophosphorylation and downstream signalling. The model provides a conserved mechanism for signalling proteins that respond to diverse physical and mechanical stimuli.
Halobellus limi sp. nov. and Halobellus salinus sp. nov., isolated from two marine solar salterns.	Two halophilic archaea, strains TBN53(T) and CSW2.24.4(T), were characterized to elucidate their taxonomic status. Strain TBN53(T) was isolated from the Taibei marine solar saltern near Lianyungang city, Jiangsu province, China, whereas strain CSW2.24.4(T) was isolated from a saltern crystallizer in Victoria, Australia. Cells of the two strains were pleomorphic, stained Gram-negative and produced red-pigmented colonies. Strain TBN53(T) was able to grow at 25-55 C (optimum 45 C), with 1.4-5.1 M NaCl (optimum 2.6-3.9 M NaCl), with 0-1.0 M MgCl(2) (optimum 0-0.1 M MgCl(2)) and at pH 5.5-9.5 (optimum pH 7.0), whereas strain CSW2.24.4(T) was able to grow at 25-45 C (optimum 37 C), with 2.6-5.1 M NaCl (optimum 3.4 M NaCl), with 0.01-0.7 M MgCl(2) (optimum 0.05 M MgCl(2)) and at pH 5.5-9.5 (optimum pH 7.0-7.5). Cells of the two isolates lysed in distilled water. The minimum NaCl concentrations that prevented cell lysis were 8 % (w/v) for strain TBN53(T) and 12 % (w/v) for strain CSW2.24.4(T). The major polar lipids of the two strains were phosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylglycerol phosphate methyl ester and phosphatidylglycerol sulfate, with two glycolipids chromatographically identical to sulfated mannosyl glucosyl diether and mannosyl glucosyl diether, respectively. Trace amounts of other unidentified lipids were also detected. On the basis of 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis, strains TBN53(T) and CSW2.24.4(T) showed 94.1 % similarity to each other and were closely related to Halobellus clavatus TNN18(T) (95.0 and 94.7 % similarity, respectively). Levels of rpoB' gene sequence similarity between strains TBN53(T) and CSW2.24.4(T), and between these strains and Halobellus clavatus TNN18(T) were 88.5, 88.5 and 88.1 %, respectively. The DNA G+C contents of strains TBN53(T) and CSW2.24.4(T) were 69.2 and 67.0 mol%, respectively. The level of DNA-DNA relatedness between strain TBN53(T) and strain CSW2.24.4(T) was 25 %, and these two strains showed low levels of DNA-DNA relatedness with Halobellus clavatus TNN18(T) (30 and 29 % relatedness, respectively). Based on these phenotypic, chemotaxonomic and phylogenetic properties, two novel species of the genus Halobellus are proposed to accommodate these two strains, Halobellus limi sp. nov. (type strain TBN53(T) = CGMCC 1.10331(T) = JCM 16811(T)) and Halobellus salinus sp. nov. (type strain CSW2.24.4(T) = DSM 18730(T) = CGMCC 1.10710(T) = JCM 14359(T)).
The use of Bassia indica for salt phytoremediation in constructed wetlands.	The treatment and reuse of wastewater in constructed wetlands offers a low-cost, environmentally-friendly alternative for common engineered systems. Salinity in treated wastewater is often increased, especially in arid and semi-arid areas, and may harm crops irrigated from wetlands. We have strong evidence that halophyte plants are able to reduce the salinity of wastewater by accumulating salts in their tissues. Bassia indica is an annual halophyte with unique adaptations for salt tolerance. We performed three experiments to evaluate the capability of B. indica for salt phytoremediation as follows: a hydroponic system with mixed salt solutions, a recirculated vertical flow constructed wetland (RVFCW) with domestic wastewater, and a vertical flow constructed wetland (VFCW) for treating goat farm effluents. B. Indica plants developed successfully in all three systems and reduced the effluent salinity by 20-60% in comparison with unplanted systems or systems planted with other wetland plants. Salinity reduction was attributed to the accumulation of salts, mainly Na and K, in the leaves. Our experiments were carried out on an operative scale, suggesting a novel treatment for green desalination in constructed wetlands by salt phytoremediation in desert regions and other ecosystems.
Salt-sensitive and salt-tolerant barley varieties differ in the extent of potentiation of the ROS-induced K(+) efflux by polyamines.	Generation of high levels of polyamines and reactive oxygen species (ROS) is common under stress conditions. Our recent study on a salt-sensitive pea species revealed an interaction between natural polyamines and hydroxyl radicals in inducing non-selective conductance and stimulating Ca(2+)-ATPase pumps at the root plasma membrane (I. Zepeda-Jazo, A.M. Velarde-Buenda, R. Enrquez-Figueroa, B. Jayakumar, S. Shabala, J. Muiz, I. Pottosin, Polyamines interact with hydroxyl radicals in activating Ca2+ and K+ transport across the root epidermal plasma membranes, Plant Phys. 157 (2011) 1-14). In this work, we extended that study to see if interaction between polyamines and ROS may determine the extent of genotypic variation in salinity tolerance. This work was conducted using barley genotypes contrasting in salinity tolerance. Similar to our findings in pea, application of hydroxyl radicals-generating Cu(2+)/ascorbate mixture induced transient Ca(2+) and K(+) fluxes in barley roots. Putrescine and spermine alone induced only transient Ca(2+) efflux and negligible K(+) flux. However, both putrescine and spermine strongly potentiated hydroxyl radicals-induced K(+) efflux and respective non-selective current. This synergistic effect was much more pronounced in a salt-sensitive cultivar Franklin as compared to a salt-tolerant TX9425. As retention of K(+) under salt stress is a key determinant of salinity tolerance in barley, we suggest that the alteration of cytosolic K(+) homeostasis, caused by interaction between polyamines and ROS, may have a substantial contribution to genetic variability in salt sensitivity in this species.
Genome sequence of the human-pathogenic bacterium Vibrio vulnificus type strain ATCC 27562.	Vibrio vulnificus, which is, like Vibrio cholerae and Vibrio parahaemolyticus, a pathogen of humankind, is a Gram-negative, curved, motile, and rod-shaped bacterium [corrected] Here, we present the draft genome sequence of the type strain, ATCC 27562, which was the first isolated Vibrio vulnificus strain.
Arabidopsis sos1 mutant in a salt-tolerant accession revealed an importance of salt acclimation ability in plant salt tolerance.	An analysis of the salinity tolerance of 354 Arabidopsis thaliana accessions showed that some accessions were more tolerant to salt shock than the reference accession, Col-0, when transferred from 0 to 225 mM NaCl. In addition, several accessions, including Zu-0, showed marked acquired salt tolerance after exposure to moderate salt stress. It is likely therefore that Arabidopsis plants have at least two types of tolerance, salt shock tolerance and acquired salt tolerance. To evaluate a role of well-known salt shock tolerant gene SOS1 in acquired salt tolerance, we isolated a sos1 mutant from ion-beam-mutagenized Zu-0 seedlings. The mutant showed severe growth inhibition under salt shock stress owing to a single base deletion in the SOS1 gene and was even more salt sensitive than Col-0. Nevertheless, it was able to survive after acclimation on 100 mM NaCl for 7 d followed by 750 mM sorbitol for 20 d, whereas Col-0 became chlorotic under the same conditions. We propose that genes for salt acclimation ability are different from genes for salt shock tolerance and play an important role in the acquisition of salt or osmotic tolerance. 
Aliidiomarina sanyensis sp. nov., a hexabromocyclododecane assimilating bacterium from the pool of Spirulina platensis cultivation, Sanya, China.	A novel Gram-negative, rod shaped, motile, non-spore-forming, aerobic, brominated flame retardant hexabromocyclododecane-assimilating bacterium, designated strain GYP-17(T), was isolated from a pool of marine Spirulina platensis cultivation, Sanya, China. Colonies on 1/10 strength of marine Glycerol Enriched Medium plates were circular, dark-brown, 1-2mm in diameter, and with regular margins. Growth occurred at 10-45C, 1-10% (w/v) NaCl and pH of 7-9. The polar lipids were composed of phosphatidylethanolamine, three unidentified phospholipids and one unidentified polar lipid. The major fatty acids were iso-C17:19c/10-methyl-C16:0 (summed feature 9, 20.75%), iso-C15:0 (17.70%) and C16:0 (6.40%). The major respiratory quinone was Q-8. The DNA G+C content of the type strain was 53.6mol%. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that strain GYP-17(T) was a member of the genus Aliidiomarina and closely related to Aliidiomarinahaloalkalitolerans with a 16S rDNA sequence similarity of 96.36%. Results from the polyphasic taxonomy study support the conclusion that strain GYP-17(T) represents a novel Aliidiomarina species, for which the name Aliidiomarinasanyensis sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain of A.sanyensis is GYP-17(T) (=KCTC 32218(T) =LMG 27471(T)). 
Actinopolyspora righensis sp. nov., a novel halophilic actinomycete isolated from Saharan soil in Algeria.	A novel halophilic actinomycete strain, H23(T), was isolated from a Saharan soil sample collected in Djama (Oued Righ region), El-Oued province, South Algeria. Strain H23(T) was identified as a member of the genus Actinopolyspora by a polyphasic approach. Phylogenetic analysis showed that strain H23(T) had 16S rRNA gene sequence similarities ranging from 97.8% (Actinopolyspora xinjiangensis TRM 40136(T)) to 94.8% (Actinopolyspora mortivallis DSM 44261(T)). The strain grew optimally at pH 6.0-7.0, 28-32C and in the presence of 15-25% (w/v) NaCl. The substrate mycelium was well developed and fragmented with age. The aerial mycelium produced long, straight or flexuous spore chains with non-motile, smooth-surfaced and rod-shaped spores. Strain H23(T) had MK-10 (H4) and MK-9 (H4) as the predominant menaquinones. The whole micro-organism hydrolysates mainly consisted of meso-diaminopimelic acid, galactose and arabinose. The diagnostic phospholipid detected was phosphatidylcholine. The major cellular fatty acids were anteiso-C17:0 (37.4%), iso-C17:0 (14.8%), iso-C15:0 (14.2%), and iso-C16:0 (13.9%). The genotypic and phenotypic data show that the strain represents a novel species of the genus Actinopolyspora, for which the name Actinopolyspora righensis sp. nov. is proposed, with the type strain H23(T) (=DSM 45501(T)=CCUG 63368(T)=MTCC 11562(T)). 
Salegentibacter echinorum sp. nov., isolated from the sea urchin Hemicentrotus pulcherrimus.	A novel Gram-negative, strictly aerobic, heterotrophic, non-motile and yellow-pigmented bacterial strain, designated HD4(T), was isolated from the sea urchin Hemicentrotus pulcherrimus collected from the Yellow Sea in China. Optimal growth of the strain was observed at 28-30C, pH 6.8-7.3, and in the presence of 3-5% (w/v) NaCl. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequence revealed that strain HD4(T) exhibited high similarity with the members of Salegentibacter (92.3-95.4%). The DNA G+C content was 37.0mol%, MK-6 was the main respiratory quinone and summed feature 3 (comprising iso-C15:0 2-OH/C16:17c), iso-C15:0, iso-C17:0 3-OH and anteiso-C15:0 were the major cellular fatty acids. The predominant polar lipids in strain HD4(T) were phosphatidylethanolamine and two unknown lipids (L2, L4). Based on the phylogenetic, physiological and biochemical characteristics, strain HD4(T) should be classified as a novel species within the genus Salegentibacter, for which the name Salegentibacter echinorum sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is HD4(T) (=CICC 10466(T)=NRRL B-59666(T)). 
Kinetics analysis of a salt-tolerant perchlorate-reducing bacterium: effects of sodium, magnesium, and nitrate.	Salt-tolerant perchlorate-reducing bacteria can be used to regenerate ion-exchange brines or resins exhausted with perchlorate. A salt-tolerant perchlorate-reducing Marinobacter vinifirmus strain P4B1 was recently purified. This study determined the effects of Na(+) and Mg(2+) concentrations on the perchlorate reduction rate of P4B1. The results showed that strain P4B1 could utilize perchlorate and grow in the presence of 1.8% to 10.2% NaCl. Lower NaCl concentrations allowed faster perchlorate reduction. The addition of Mg(2+) to the culture showed significant effects on perchlorate reduction when perchlorate was the sole electron acceptor. A molar Mg(2+)/Na(+) ratio of 0.11 optimized perchlorate degradation and cell growth. When perchlorate and nitrate were both present, nitrate reduction did not start significantly until perchlorate was below 100 mg/L. Tests with washed cell suspensions indicated that strain P4B1 had both perchlorate and nitrate reduction enzymes. When the culture was exposed to both perchlorate and nitrate, the nitrate reduction enzyme activity was low. The maximum specific substrate utilization rate (Vm) and the half saturation coefficient (KS) for P4B1 (30 g/L NaCl) determined in this study were 0.049  0.003 mg ClO4(-)/mg VSS-h and 18  4 mg ClO4(-)/L, respectively. 
Loktanella soesokkakensis sp. nov., isolated from the junction between the North Pacific Ocean and a freshwater spring.	A Gram-negative, aerobic, non-flagellated and rod-shaped or ovoid bacterial strain, designated DSSK1-5(T), was isolated from the junction between the North Pacific Ocean and a freshwater spring at Jeju island, South Korea. Strain DSSK1-5(T) was found to grow optimally at 30C, at pH 7.0-8.0 and in the presence of 2.0-3.0% (w/v) NaCl. A neighbour-joining phylogenetic tree based on 16S rRNA gene sequences revealed that strain DSSK1-5(T) fell within the clade comprising Loktanella species, clustering consistently with the type strains of Loktanella hongkongensis and Loktanella cinnabarina, with which it exhibited 98.9 and 98.4% sequence similarity values, respectively. Sequence similarities to the type strains of the other recognized Loktanella species were 94.0-96.2%. Strain DSSK1-5(T) was found to contain Q-10 as the predominant ubiquinone and C18:1 7c as the major fatty acid. The major polar lipids of strain DSSK1-5(T) were identified as phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylglycerol, diphosphatidylglycerol, one unidentified glycolipid and one unidentified aminolipid. The DNA G+C content of strain DSSK1-5(T) was determined to be 67.6mol% and its mean DNA-DNA relatedness values with L. hongkongensis JCM 12479(T) and L. cinnabarina JCM 18161(T) were 19 and 23%, respectively. The differential phenotypic properties, together with the phylogenetic and genetic distinctiveness, revealed that strain DSSK1-5(T) is separated from other Loktanella species. On the basis of the data presented, strain DSSK1-5(T) is proposed to represent a novel species of the genus Loktanella, for which the name Loktanella soesokkakensis sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is DSSK1-5(T) (=KCTC 32425(T)=CECT 8367(T)). 
Halobellus rarus sp. nov., a halophilic archaeon from an inland salt lake of China.	Two halophilic archaeal strains, YC21(T) and YC77, were isolated from an inland salt lake of China. Both have pleomorphic rod-shaped cells that lyse in distilled water, stain Gram-negative and form red-pigmented colonies. They are neutrophilic, require at least 2.1M NaCl for growth under the optimum growth temperature of 37C. The major polar lipids of the two strains were phosphatidylglycerol (PG), phosphatidylglycerol phosphate methyl ester (PGP-Me), phosphatidylglycerol sulfate (PGS), two major glycolipids (GL1 and GL2) chromatographically identical to sulfated mannosyl glucosyl diether (S-DGD-1) and mannosyl glucosyl diether (DGD-1), respectively. Trace amounts of two unidentified lipids (GL0-1 and GL0-2) were also detected. The 16S rRNA gene sequences of the two strains are 99.9% identical, show 94.0-98.9% similarity to the closest relative members of Halobellus of the family Halobacteriaceae. The rpoB' gene similarity between strains YC21(T) and YC77 is 99.8% and show 90.3-95.3% similarity to the closest relative members of Halobellus. The DNA G+C content of strains YC21(T) and YC77 were 66.1 and 66.2mol%, respectively. The DNA-DNA hybridization value between strain YC20(T) and strain YC77 was 89%, and the two strains showed low DNA-DNA relatedness with Halobellus limi TBN53(T), the most related member of Halobellus. The phenotypic, chemotaxonomic and phylogenetic properties suggest that strains YC21(T) and YC77 represent a novel species of the genus Halobellus, for which the name Halobellus rarus sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is YC21(T) (=CGMCC 1.12121(T)=JCM 18362(T)). 
Roseovarius marisflavi sp. nov., isolated from an amphioxus breeding zone in the coastal region of the Yellow Sea, China.	A novel Gram stain-negative, catalase- and oxidase-positive, strictly aerobic bacterium, designated strain H50(T), was isolated from an amphioxus breeding zone in the coastal region of the Yellow Sea, China. Cells were observed to be ovoid or short rods, lacked flagella and were found to contain bacteriochlorophyll a. Poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate was found to be accumulated. The temperature range for growth was determined to be 0-37C (optimum 28-37C). The halotolerance range for growth is 1-15% NaCl (optimum 2-7%). The pH range for growth is 6.0-8.0 (optimum 7.0). The major fatty acids were identified as C18:17c and C16:0. The following polar lipids were found to be present: diphosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylglycerol and a lipid. The predominant respiratory quinone was determined to be Q-10. DNA G+C content was determined to be 57.7mol%. Strain H50(T) exhibited the highest 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity to Pelagicola litoralis DSM 18290(T) (96.1%), Roseovarius mucosus DSM 17069(T) (95.8%) and Roseovarius tolerans DSM 11457(T) (95.7%). In the phylogenetic trees, strain H50(T) was clustered with the genus Roseovarius but not Pelagicola. On the basis of phenotypic, chemotaxonomic and genotypic data, strain H50(T) is considered to represent a novel species in the genus Roseovarius, for which the name Roseovarius marisflavi sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is H50(T) (=CGMCC 1.10799(T)=JCM 17553(T)). 
Litorilituus sediminis gen. nov. sp. nov., isolated from coastal sediment of an amphioxus breeding zone in Qingdao, China.	A Gram-negative, non-spore-forming, catalase- and oxidase-positive, aerobic, curved-rod shaped bacterium with polar or subpolar flagellum, designated strain JYr2(T), was isolated from a sediment sample collected from an amphioxus breeding zone in the coastal region of Qingdao, China. The organism grew optimally at 37C, pH 8-9 and in the presence of 3% (w/v) NaCl or 3-4% sea salts (w/v; Sigma). Salt was required for growth. The strain contained isoprenoid quinone 8 (Q-8, 100%) as the predominant isoprenoid quinone and C16:0 (24.1%) and C16:1 7c and/or C16:1 6c (35.8%) as major fatty acids. Phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylglycerol, aminophospholipid (PN) and two aminolipid (AL1, AL2) were the major constituents of the phospholipids. A phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences indicated that strain JYr2(T) formed a distinct evolutionary lineage within the family Colwelliaceae. It showed <95.0% sequence similarities to all validly published species in the family Colwelliaceae, except 95.2% to Thalassomonas viridans DSM 13754(T) and 95.0% to Colwellia polaris JCM 537(T). The G+C content of the DNA was 42.7mol%. On the basis of the polyphasic taxonomic study, strain JYr2(T) (=CGMCC 1.10794(T)=JCM 17549(T)) was considered to represent a novel genus and species in Gammaproteobacteria, for which the name Litorilituus sediminis gen. nov. sp. nov. was proposed. 
Pyrosequencing-based analysis of the bacterial community in Korean traditional seafood, ojingeo jeotgal.	Jeotgal fermentation is dependent upon a diverse microbial community, although a detailed understanding of its microbial composition is limited to a relatively small number of jeotgal. Pyrosequencing-based bacterial community analysis was performed in fermented squid, ojingeo jeotgal. Leuconostoc was identified as the predominant bacterial genus, with Bacillus and Staphylococcus also accounting for a large proportion of the bacterial community. Phylogenetic analysis with 16S rRNA genes of Leuconostoc type species indicated that L. citreum- and L. holzapfelii-like strains could be the major Leuconostoc strains in jeotgal. High concentrations of NaCl were thought to be an important factor determining the makeup of the bacterial community in the fermented squid; however, a genomic survey with osmotic stress-related genes suggests the existence of more complex factors selecting the dominant bacterial species in fermented squid. 
Vulcaniibacterium tengchongense gen. nov., sp. nov. isolated from a geothermally heated soil sample, and reclassification of Lysobacter thermophilus Wei et al. 2012 as Vulcaniibacterium thermophilum comb. nov.	A thermotolerant Gram-staining negative and aerobic bacterium, designated strain YIM 77520(T), was isolated from a geothermally heated soil sample collected at Rehai National Park, Tengchong, Yunnan Province, South-West China. Cells of the strain were found to be rod-shaped and colonies were light beige and circular. The strain was found to grow in the presence of 0-2% (w/v) total salts (optimum, 0%), at pH 6.0-8.0 (optimum, pH 7.0) and 25-55C (optimum, 45C). The only quinone detected was Q-8 and the genomic DNA G+C content was determined to be 66.9mol%. The major fatty acids (>10%) were identified as iso-C16:0 and iso-C15:0. The phospholipids were found to consist of phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylglycerol, diphosphatidylglycerol, five unknown phospholipids and three aminophospholipids. Based on the 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis, strain YIM 77520(T) was found to form a cluster with Lysobacter thermophilus YIM 77875(T) and showed the highest 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity to L. thermophilus YIM 77875(T) (96.0%). These two strains formed a distinct lineage of the family 'Xanthomonadaceae'. On the basis of the morphological and chemotaxonomic characteristics, as well as genotypic data, a new genus, Vulcaniibacterium gen. nov. is proposed with Vulcaniibacterium tengchongense sp. nov. as the type species. The type strain of V. tengchongense sp. nov. is strain YIM 77520(T) (=DSM 25623(T)=CCTCC AB 2011152(T)). Furthermore we propose that L. thermophilus Wei et al. 2012 is reclassified in the new genus as Vulcaniibacterium thermophilum comb. nov. (type strain YIM 77875(T)=CCTCC AB 2012064(T)=KCTC 32020(T)) based on polyphasic data. 
-Ketoglutarate regulates acid-base balance through an intrarenal paracrine mechanism.	Paracrine communication between different parts of the renal tubule is increasingly recognized as an important determinant of renal function. Previous studies have shown that changes in dietary acid-base load can reverse the direction of apical -ketoglutarate (KG) transport in the proximal tubule and Henle's loop from reabsorption (acid load) to secretion (base load). Here we show that the resulting changes in the luminal concentrations of KG are sensed by the KG receptor OXGR1 expressed in the type B and non-A-non-B intercalated cells of the connecting tubule (CNT) and the cortical collecting duct (CCD). The addition of 1 mM KG to the tubular lumen strongly stimulated Cl(-)-dependent HCO(3)(-) secretion and electroneutral transepithelial NaCl reabsorption in microperfused CCDs of wild-type mice but not Oxgr1(-/-) mice. Analysis of alkali-loaded mice revealed a significantly reduced ability of Oxgr1(-/-) mice to maintain acid-base balance. Collectively, these results demonstrate that OXGR1 is involved in the adaptive regulation of HCO(3)(-) secretion and NaCl reabsorption in the CNT/CCD under acid-base stress and establish KG as a paracrine mediator involved in the functional coordination of the proximal and the distal parts of the renal tubule.
Application of lipopeptide biosurfactant isolated from a halophile: Bacillus tequilensis CH for inhibition of biofilm.	Biosurfactants are amphiphilic molecules having hydrophobic and hydrophilic moieties produced by various microorganisms. These molecules trigger the reduction of surface tension or interfacial tension in liquids. A biosurfactant-producing halophile was isolated from Lake Chilika, a brackish water lake of Odisha, India (1941'39N, 8518'24E). The halophile was identified as Bacillus tequilensis CH by biochemical tests and 16S rRNA gene sequencing and assigned accession no. KC851857 by GenBank. The biosurfactant produced by B. tequilensis CH was partially characterized as a lipopeptide using thin-layer chromatography, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, and nuclear magnetic resonance techniques. The minimum effective concentration of a biosurfactant for inhibition of pathogenic biofilm (Escherichia coli and Streptococcus mutans) on hydrophilic and hydrophobic surfaces was found to be 50gml(-1). This finding has potential for a variety of applications. 
Arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis modulates antioxidant response in salt-stressed Trigonella foenum-graecum plants.	An experiment was conducted to evaluate the influence of Glomus intraradices colonization on the activity of antioxidant enzymes [superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), peroxidase (PX), ascorbate peroxidase (APX), and glutathione reductase (GR)] and the accumulation of nonenzymatic antioxidants (ascorbic acid, -tocopherol, glutathione, and carotenoids) in roots and leaves of fenugreek plants subjected to varying degrees of salinity (0, 50, 100, and 200mM NaCl) at two time intervals (1 and 14days after saline treatment, DAT). The antioxidative capacity was correlated with oxidative damage in the same tissue. Under salt stress, lipid peroxidation and H2O2 concentration increased with increasing severity and duration of salt stress (DoS). However, the extent of oxidative damage in mycorrhizal plants was less compared to nonmycorrhizal plants. The study reveals that mycorrhiza-mediated attenuation of oxidative stress in fenugreek plants is due to enhanced activity of antioxidant enzymes and higher concentrations of antioxidant molecules. However, the significant effect of G. intraradices colonization on individual antioxidant molecules and enzymes varied with plant tissue, salinity level, and DoS. The significant effect of G. intraradices colonization on antioxidative enzymes was more evident at 1DAT in both leaves and roots, while the concentrations of antioxidant molecules were significantly influenced at 14DAT. It is proposed that AM symbiosis can improve antioxidative defense systems of plants through higher SOD activity in M plants, facilitating rapid dismutation of O2 (-) to H2O2, and subsequent prevention of H2O2 build-up by higher activities of CAT, APX, and PX. The potential of G. intraradices to ameliorate oxidative stress generated in fenugreek plants by salinity was more evident at higher intensities of salt stress. 
Structural basis of ion permeation gating in Slo2.1 K+ channels.	The activation gate of ion channels controls the transmembrane flux of permeant ions. In voltage-gated K(+) channels, the aperture formed by the S6 bundle crossing can widen to open or narrow to close the ion permeation pathway, whereas the selectivity filter gates ion flux in cyclic-nucleotide gated (CNG) and Slo1 channels. Here we explore the structural basis of the activation gate for Slo2.1, a weakly voltage-dependent K(+) channel that is activated by intracellular Na(+) and Cl(-). Slo2.1 channels were heterologously expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes and activated by elevated [NaCl]i or extracellular application of niflumic acid. In contrast to other voltage-gated channels, Slo2.1 was blocked by verapamil in an activation-independent manner, implying that the S6 bundle crossing does not gate the access of verapamil to its central cavity binding site. The structural basis of Slo2.1 activation was probed by Ala scanning mutagenesis of the S6 segment and by mutation of selected residues in the pore helix and S5 segment. Mutation to Ala of three S6 residues caused reduced trafficking of channels to the cell surface and partial (K256A, I263A, Q273A) or complete loss (E275A) of channel function. P271A Slo2.1 channels trafficked normally, but were nonfunctional. Further mutagenesis and intragenic rescue by second site mutations suggest that Pro271 and Glu275 maintain the inner pore in an open configuration by preventing formation of a tight S6 bundle crossing. Mutation of several residues in S6 and S5 predicted by homology modeling to contact residues in the pore helix induced a gain of channel function. Substitution of the pore helix residue Phe240 with polar residues induced constitutive channel activation. Together these findings suggest that (1) the selectivity filter and not the bundle crossing gates ion permeation and (2) dynamic coupling between the pore helix and the S5 and S6 segments mediates Slo2.1 channel activation. 
Overexpression of AaPal, a peptidoglycan-associated lipoprotein from Alkalomonas amylolytica, improves salt and alkaline tolerance of Escherichia coli and Arabidopsis thaliana.	The outer membrane lipoprotein, Pal, plays a major role maintaining the integrity of outer membrane and cell morphology in Gram-negative bacteria. Here, we represent A novel role of AaPal in tolerance to salt and alkaline stresses. The cell density of Escherichia coli expressing AaPal was approx. three times as that of control strain when grown in the presence of 1 M NaCl or at pH 9.0 for 14 h, and transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana grew taller and stronger than wild-type plants when subjected to 200 mM NaCl or pH 9.0 stress. This tolerance was attributed to higher concentrations of K(+) and lower concentrations of Na(+) in the transgenic organism. Our study provides a potential use of AaPal in the improvement of salt and alkaline tolerance in bacteria and plants.
Hormone profiling and transcription analysis reveal a major role ofABA in tomato salt tolerance.	The response and adaptation of plants to different environmental stresses are of great interest as they provide the key to understanding the mechanisms underlying stress tolerance. In this study, the changing patterns of four endogenous hormones and various physiological and biochemical parameters of both a salt-tolerant (LA2711) and a salt-sensitive (ZS-5) tomato cultivar were examined under salt stress and non-stress conditions. Additionally, the transcription of key genes in the abscisic acid (ABA) biosynthesis and metabolism were analyzed at different time points. The results indicated that gene expression responsible for ABA biosynthesis and metabolism coincided with the hormone level, and SlNCED1 and SlCYP707A3 may play major roles in the process. LA2711 performed superior to ZS-5 on various parameters, including seed germination, Na(+) compartmentation, selective absorption of K(+), and antioxidant enzymes activity. The difference in salt tolerance between the two genotypes could be attributed to the different levels of ABA due to differences in gene expression of key genes in ABA biosynthesis and metabolism. Although gibberellin, cytokinin and auxin were involved, our results indicated that ABA signaling plays a major role in tomato salt tolerance. As compared to ZS-5, LA2711 had a higher capability to selectively absorb and redistribute K(+) and a higher tolerance to Na(+) in young leaves, which may be the main physiological mechanisms of salt tolerance. 
Interaction of peptide-bound beads with lipopolysaccharide and lipoproteins.	We previously reported the generation of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-binding peptides by phage display and chemical modification. Among them, a dodecapeptide designated Li5-025 (K'YSSSISSIRAC'; K' and C' denote d-lysine and d-cysteine, respectively) showed a high binding affinity for LPS and was resistant to protease digestion (Suzuki et al., 2010). In the current study, Li5-025-bound silica beads, hereafter referred to as P-beads, were generated and found to be devoid of LPS-neutralizing activity. Thus, LPS bound to the P-beads could be directly used in the Limulus amebocyte lysate (LAL) assay. P-beads bound LPS dissolved in solutions of ethanol, pH4, pH10, and 0.5M NaCl and LPS bound to the P-beads was quantitatively assayed. The sensitivity of this assay was observed to be approximately 0.1pg/mL LPS. P-beads bound LPS dissolved in antithrombin III (AT III) solution which is a strong inhibitor of activated factors C and B as well as the clotting enzyme in the LAL assay; the inhibitory effect of AT III was completely reversed upon washing the P-beads with 25% acetonitrile. This was employed as the first step for the detection of free LPS in plasma using the LAL assay. LPS added to human plasma at 0C followed by application to the P-beads and subsequent washing with 25% acetonitrile resulted in low LPS activity as detected by the LAL assay. However, further washing of the P-beads with 0.1% Triton X100 in 25% acetonitrile resulted in high LPS activity. This is the first instance of quantitative detection of free LPS in plasma using the LAL assay, and the sensitivity of this method was observed to be 1pg/mL of LPS. The proteins eluted in the 0.1% Triton X-100 wash were analyzed using sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Two protein bands of 28kDa and 18kDa were predominantly observed. Mass spectrometry analysis revealed that the 28kDa and 18kDa bands corresponded to apolipoprotein A-I (apoA-I) and apolipoprotein A-II (apoA-II), respectively. ApoA-I and apoA-II are components of high density lipoprotein (HDL). Thus, it is likely that the P-beads-bound LPS was sequestered by HDL, resulting in neutralization of its toxicity. This study showed that by using P-beads, free LPS in plasma can be quantitatively measured by the LAL assay at a concentration of 1pg/mL. 
Effect of exogenous calcium on seed germination and seedling physiological characteristics of Lycium ruthenium]	In order to get the method for improving the salt resistance of Lycium ruthenium seeds and seedlings under NaCl stress, the seed germination and physiological characteristics of L. ruthenium seedlings was studied.
The role of glucose infusion on the metabolism of nitrogen in ruminants.	This work determined the time necessary to stabilize the decrease in urinary N excretion after initiating continuous i.v. glucose infusion and the quantity of glucose required to maximize N balance in growing wether lambs fed a high-protein diet (21.1% CP, DM basis). In the first experiment, six wethers (30 kg) were used in a 10-d crossover design comparing jugular infusion of glucose (600 kcal gross energy/d) plus saline with saline alone. The second infusion experiment was carried out with six wethers (31 kg) assigned to two 3 x 3 plus extra period latin squares, with glucose infusion rates of 0, 300 and 600, and 0, 450 and 900 kcal/d, respectively. Urinary N decreased (P less than .02) by d 2 of glucose infusion, remained stable to the end of the 10-d infusion period, and returned to the preinfusion level within 2 d after glucose infusion was discontinued. Urinary N decreased (P less than .01) and N balance increased (P less than .005) with an increasing level of glucose infusion through 600 kcal/d. Plasma glucose and insulin were elevated (P less than .05) only by infusion of 900 kcal/d of glucose. Glucose was present in the urine of wethers infused with 900 kcal/d of glucose. Glucose infusion had no effect on diet digestibility, hematocrit or plasma urea N. The level of glucose infused into growing wether lambs that maximized reduction of urinary N and was fully utilized for protein deposition without increasing plasma glucose and insulin was about 12 g.Wk-.75.d-1.
Cranial puncture, a simple procedure requiring no preparatory surgery: validation by observation of drinking and salt appetite evoked by intracerebroventricular renin.	A non-surgical procedure, "cranical puncture" (CP), for pulse intracerebroventricular (p.i.c.v.) injection of solutions in adult rats is described. The injections are made by pushing a needle through the scalp and skull while the rats are under brief carbon dioxide narcosis from which behavioral recovery is rapid. The method was validated by comparing the effects of renin injected either by CP or through conventional chronic ventricular cannulas. Renin injections by either procedure evoked copious drinking of water (224 +/- 23 ml/24 h) and 3% NaCl (44 +/- 9.1 ml/24 h) at smaller doses than previously reported. Cranial puncture is proposed as a simple method of i.c.v. injection for behavioral experimentation in rats, and its advantages are discussed.
Surface characteristics of phosphatidylglycerol phosphate from the extreme halophile Halobacterium cutirubrum compared with those of its deoxy analogue, at the air/water interface.	The relationship between area per molecule and surface pressure of monolayers of phosphatidylglycerol phosphate from extreme halophile Halobacterium cutrirubrum and its deoxy analogue, deoxyphosphatidylglycerol phosphate, spread at an air/water interface was examined. The effect of ionization of the primary and secondary acidic functions of the phosphate groups of the two lipids on surface characteristics of compression isotherms was determined by spreading monolayers on subphases with pH values ranging from below the apparent pKa of the primary ionization (pH 0) to greater than that of secondary ionization (pH 10.9). The limiting molecular area increases with decreasing pH below 2. Ionization of the primary phosphate functions of both phospholipids (with bulk pK1 values close to 4) is associated with a marked expansion of the films, as judged by values of limiting molecular area. Ionization of the secondary phosphate functions causes further expansion of the films, with the apparent pK2 of deoxyphosphatidylglycerol phosphate slightly less than that indicated for phosphatidylglycerol phosphate. Values of surface-compressibility modulus calculated from the surface characteristics of the phosphatidylglcerol phosphate monolayers showed that films spread on subphases with a pH of about the apparent pK1 of the primary phosphate functions were the least compressible. Increasing or decreasing subphase pH caused an increase in compressibility; this effect on compressibility was much less with monolayers of deoxyphosphatidylglycerol phosphate at high pH. The effect of inorganic counter-ions on monolayer characteristics of phosphatidylglycerol phosphate was examined by using subphases of NaCl concentrations varying from 0.01 to 1 M. The limiting molecular area was found to increase exponentially with respect to the subphase NaCl concentration.
Interaction between N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine and 2 steroid hormones in the glandular stomach of mouse. I. Acceleration of hydrocortisone turnover by use of a salt-rich diet and the carcinogen.	The present study has investigated the question of whether or not hydrocortisone as a gene regulator plays a role in the expression of carcinogenic and cocarcinogenic actions of N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG) and NaCl at the gastric epithelium. The interaction of local hydrocortisone, MNNG and NaCl was studied in vitro and in vivo using Swiss/ICR mice of both sexes. MNNG inhibited specific hydrocortisone binding with the cytoplasmic receptor from the glandular stomach of mouse. The intake of both excess NaCl and MNNG induced an increase in hydrocortisone turnover in the glandular stomach of mouse. Likewise, administration of either excess NaCl or MNNG increased the activity of ornithine decarboxylase in the glandular stomach of mouse. Long-term use of a salt-rich diet and MNNG drink induced an irreversible reduction in water consumption without affecting NaCl consumption, a dissociation of the hydrocortisone effect. The aforementioned MNNG effect on water turnover was more marked in female than in male mice. It is suggested that NaCl and MNNG produce a state of corticosteroid stimulation and androgen depression at the glandular stomach epithelium of mouse--a reproduction of the hormonal markers of gastric cancer.
Control of sodium fluxes in Mycoplasma gallisepticum.	Swelling of Mycoplasma gallisepticum cells when incubated in a glucose-free isoosmotic NaCl buffer was shown to be due to the entrance of NaCl into the cell. Volume regulation therefore depends on Na+ extrusion. The mechanism of Na+ extrusion in cells and proteoliposomes, prepared from M. gallisepticum membrane fragments, was investigated by following both 22Na+ efflux and pH changes. Our results indicate that Na+ is expelled from cells via two separate mechanisms, an Na+/cation exchange mechanism and an Na+-ATPase. The possible association of these mechanisms with K+ accumulation is suggested.
Hereditary resistance to salt-induced hypertension. What mechanisms?]	The Sabra hypertension resistant rats (SBN) have an outstanding ability to maintain normal blood pressure when exposed to procedures that ordinarily cause hypertension in normal rats. The following findings may be relevant to resistance to hypertension of these rats: 1) In SBN rats, cardiac norepinephrine content is not affected by DOCA-salt treatment. Since depletion of cardiac norepinephrine is an index of cardiac adrenergic nerve overactivity, the results suggest an attenuated cardiac sympathetic nerve activity in these rats. 2) In SBN rats, the sensitivity of the baroreflex control of the heart is markedly increased compared with other strains. Reduction of baro-receptor sensitivity by aortic-baroreceptor deafferentation renders them susceptible to DOCA-salt hypertension. The results suggest a strong relationship between baroreflex supersensitivity and resistance to hypertension in these rats. 3) The amount of alpha 2 adrenoreceptor densities in cerebral and renal cortical membranes of normal rats increased in vitro, in the presence of sodium and guanyl nucleotide (GTP). In SBN rats, the effect of sodium is markedly attenuated compared with SBH, while response to GTP is identical in the two strains. The demonstration of a similar pattern of response in the Dahl rats suggests that alpha 2 adrenoreceptor may be involved in the sensitivity or resistance to salt induced hypertension.
Effects of Escherichia coli SSB protein on the single-stranded DNA-dependent ATPase activity of Escherichia coli RecA protein. Evidence that SSB protein facilitates the binding of RecA protein to regions of secondary structure within single-stranded DNA.	The effect that Escherichia coli single-stranded DNA binding (SSB) protein has on the single-stranded DNA-dependent ATPase activity of RecA protein is shown to depend upon a number of variables such as order of addition, magnesium concentration, temperature and the type of single-stranded DNA substrate used. When SSB protein is added to the DNA solution prior to the addition of RecA protein, a significant inhibition of ATPase activity is observed. Also, when SSB protein is added after the formation of a RecA protein-single-stranded DNA complex using either etheno M13 DNA, poly(dA) or poly(dT), or using single-stranded phage M13 DNA at lower temperature (25 degrees C) and magnesium chloride concentrations of 1 mM or 4 mM, a time-dependent inhibition of activity is observed. These results are consistent with the conclusion that SSB protein displaces the RecA protein from these DNA substrates, as described in the accompanying paper. However, if SSB protein is added last to complexes of RecA protein and single-stranded M13 DNA at elevated temperature (37 degrees C) and magnesium chloride concentrations of 4 mM or 10 mM, or to poly(dA) and poly(dT) that was renatured in the presence of RecA protein, no inhibition of ATPase activity is observed; in fact, a marked stimulation is observed for single-stranded M13 DNA. A similar effect is observed if the bacteriophage T4-coded gene 32 protein is substituted for SSB protein. The apparent stoichiometry of DNA (nucleotides) to RecA protein at the optimal ATPase activity for etheno M13 DNA, poly(dA) and poly(dT) is 6(+/- 1) nucleotides per RecA protein monomer at 4 mM-MgCl2 and 37 degrees C. Under the same conditions, the apparent stoichiometry obtained using single-stranded M13 DNA is 12 nucleotides per RecA protein monomer; however, the stoichiometry changes to 4.5 nucleotides per RecA protein monomer when SSB protein is added last. In addition, a stoichiometry of four nucleotides per RecA protein can be obtained with single-stranded M13 DNA in the absence of SSB protein if the reactions are carried out in 1 mM-MgCl2. These data are consistent with the interpretation that secondary structure within the natural DNA substrate limits the accessibility of RecA protein to these regions. The role of SSB protein is to eliminate this secondary structure and allow RecA protein to bind to these previously inaccessible regions of the DNA.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
A search for a model tissue for studying effects of thiazide diuretics.	A search was made for a model tissue of NaCl absorption which would be sensitive to inhibition by diuretics of the thiazide type. A lack of such a model through the years has hampered the analysis of the cellular mechanism of action of this important class of drugs. Using the short-circuit current technique, the urinary bladders of the toads Bufo spinosus and Bufo marinus, and the frog Rana temporaria were investigated regarding the effects of various thiazides. These bladders have NaCl absorptive properties similar to those of the distal renal tubules, and are claimed to be sensitive to the inhibitory effect of thiazides on sodium transport. The short-circuit current (SCC), which is representative of the sodium transport across the epithelium, was reduced by cyclopenthiazide and polythiazide, but only at high concentrations (above 0.1 mM). To rule out the possibility that this was an unspecific effect, attempts were made to block the effect by the 'thiazide blocker' Ex 4877, but without success. This finding, together with the fact that dose-response curves were difficult to obtain, would indicate that these epithelia are not suitable for the stated purpose. Preliminary studies were also conducted on the urinary bladder of the plaice, Pleuronectes platessa, which has a different system of NaCl absorption that is claimed to be rapidly and reversibly inhibited by thiazides. Polythiazide, added to both sides of the bladder, had no effect on SCC.
Renal tubular chloride and renin release.	We have suggested that the renal tubular signal for renin release is related to alterations of sodium chloride cotransport in the TALH. Renin release is inhibited by increased sodium chloride transport and stimulated by interrupted sodium chloride transport. Because of the different affinities of the carriers for sodium and chloride, chloride rather than sodium is rate limiting for this cotransport process. Consequently, renin release is related to alterations of chloride delivery rather than sodium delivery to the TALH. The reduction of PRA by selective chloride loading and by short-term infusion of chloride salts is related to increased chloride delivery to the loop and hence increased chloride transport. Alternatively, chlorpropamide and antidiuretic hormone may inhibit renin release by increasing chloride delivery to the loop. Stimulation of renin release may likewise be related either to decreased chloride delivery and hence decreased transport in the loop (hypochloremia related to selective chloride deprivation) or to an intrinsic alteration in the transporting capacity of the loop (loop diuretics, potassium depletion, glucocorticoid deficiency, Bartter's syndrome). The intermediate steps between alterations of sodium chloride transport in the TALH and renin release remain to be defined.
Quantitative character of fibrinogen uptake by M+ and M- variants of Streptococcus pyogenes.	Fibrinogen was labelled with 125Iodine by mild chemical oxidation and its binding to Streptococcus pyogenes was subjected to quantitative analysis, inhibition and desorption studies. Fibrinogen was bound both by virulent and avirulent (M protein-positive and M protein-negative) matched strains of several serotypes. In all pairs of strains fibrinogen uptake was much higher by the M-positive variants. The ratio of bound fibrinogen to total fibrinogen was highly dependent both on the concentration of fibrinogen and the concentration of cocci. Equilibrium binding studies showed that the binding was a multifactorial process. Probably not only receptor fibrinogen interactions but also interactions between bound and unbound fibrinogen molecules took place. The uptake of fibrinogen was highly depressed in avirulent strains and practically uninfluenced in virulent strains by the presence of albumin or immunoglobulin. The bond between fibrinogen and streptococci is therefore different in virulent and avirulent variants. The fibrinogen receptors on the cell surface are specific.
Osmotic significance of glycerol accumulation in exponentially growing yeasts.	Natural-abundance 13C-nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy has shown glycerol to be the major osmotically significant low-molecular-weight solute in exponentially growing, salt-stressed cells of the yeasts Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Zygosaccharomyces rouxii, and Debaromyces hansenii. Measurement of the intracellular nonosmotic volume (i.e., the fraction of the cell that is osmotically unresponsive) by using the Boyle-van't Hoff relationship (for nonturgid cells, the osmotic volume is directly proportional to the reciprocal of the external osmotic pressure) showed that the nonosmotic volume represented up to 53% of the total cell volume; the highest values were recorded in media with maximum added NaCl. Determinations of intracellular glycerol levels with respect to cell osmotic volumes showed that increases in intracellular glycerol may counterbalance up to 95% of the external osmotic pressure due to added NaCl. The lack of other organic osmotica in 13C-nuclear magnetic resonance spectra indicates that inorganic ions may constitute the remaining component of intracellular osmotic pressure.
An examination of the site and mechanism of action of torasemide in man.	Acute clearance studies were performed in normal subjects to determine the site and mechanism of action of torasemide (isopropyl-1-methyl-3 phenylamino-4 pyridil-3 sulphonyl-3-urea), a new diuretic agent, in the human kidney. The drug caused no change in glomerular filtration rate or effective renal plasma flow. Sodium excretion rose to 16% of filtered load, whereas there was a chloriuresis of 23%. During maximal water diuresis, the drug caused an increase in urine flow rate and a decrease in solute-free water clearance. Administration of the drug during hypertonic saline infusion into hydropenic subjects resulted in a marked decrease in water reabsorption from the collecting duct. Torasemide caused no change in phosphate excretion or in the percentage of filtered bicarbonate excreted, nor was urinary pH or net hydrogen ion excretion affected by the drug. The data suggest that the primary site of action of torasemide is the medullary portion of the ascending limb of the loop of Henle.
Macula densa control of renin secretion and glomerular vascular tone: evidence for common cellular mechanisms.	The macula densa is believed to function as a sensor for control of intrarenal vascular tone and renin secretion. Increases in flow rate through the loop of Henle or increases in distal tubular fluid NaCl concentration result in an increase in local vascular tone and a decrease in glomerular filtration rate, the tubuloglomerular feedback (TGF) mechanism. Increases in distal NaCl concentration are also believed to inhibit renin secretion. Evidence will be reviewed that suggests that these two processes may be activated concurrently and may share common cellular mechanisms. Similarities in the sensor step include a similar pattern of ion specificity, with both responses being relatively anion specific but showing little cation specificity. TGF responses are inhibitable by furosemide, and the renin secretion produced by furosemide seems to be in part macula densa dependent. There appear also to be common features in the effector step of both responses. Increases in intracellular calcium are implicated in both the vasoconstrictive response seen with increased macula densa NaCl concentration and in inhibition of renin secretion. Changes in cyclic AMP may play a role in the converse responses.
Renal prostaglandin synthesis. Sites of production and specific actions of prostaglandins.	Prostaglandins are substances that exert their effects at the site of their production. Therefore, the synthesis and effects of prostaglandins have to be considered separately for each nephron segment. In the cortex, major sites of prostaglandin synthesis include arteries and arterioles as well as the glomerulus. At these sites, prostaglandins are important in maintaining blood flow and glomerular filtration, especially during conditions of enhanced vasoconstrictor activity. Vasoconstrictors such as angiotensin II, norepinephrine, and vasopressin increase production of the vasodilator prostaglandins, thereby preventing an overshoot of their action. The role of arteriolar-glomerular prostaglandins in maintaining blood flow and filtration may be even more prominent during renal diseases. The proximal tubule and the loop of Henle show little ability to produce prostaglandins, but may generate considerable amounts of epoxygenase products of arachidonic acid. These epoxygenase products may play a prostaglandin-independent role in water and electrolyte transport in the thick ascending loop of Henle and the collecting tubule. Both the cortical and the medullary collecting tubules produce large amounts of prostaglandins, predominantly prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). In these segments, synthesis of PGE2 is stimulated by bradykinin and to a somewhat more variable degree by vasopressin. The PGE2 generated antagonizes the hydroosomotic effect of vasopressin both in vivo and in vitro, and may influence electrolyte excretion. Thus, the overall role of PGE2--and possibly of epoxygenase products of arachidonic acid--in tubular functions seems to be one of local modulation of water and electrolyte transport. Finally, interstitial cells are a major site of medullary prostaglandin production. Prostaglandins generated by the interstitial cells may play a role in maintaining blood flow to this poorly oxygenated and hypertonic region of the kidney.
Intestinal brush border calmodulin: key role in the regulation of NaCl transport in Giardia lamblia infected mice.	Activity of calmodulin and uptake of Ca2+, Na+ and Cl- was studied in control and Giardia lamblia infected mice. The activity of calmodulin was found to be significantly increased (p less than 0.001) in the experimental group as compared to control group. The uptake of Ca2+ increased significantly (p less than 0.001) while that of Na+ and Cl- decreased (p less than 0.001) in brush border membrane (BBM) vesicles from experimental group as compared to control group. In the presence of calmodulin inhibitor, trifluoperazine (TFP), the transport of Na+ and Cl- increased significantly (p less than 0.05) as compared to in the absence of inhibitor while transport of Ca2+ remained unaltered.
Changes of hypo- and hypertonic sodium chloride induced by the rat urinary bladder at various filling stages. Evidence for an increased transurothelial access of urine to detrusor nerve and muscle cells with distension.	By means of a transaortal injection of a gelatine ink mixture, a manifold mucosa to muscularis blood flow ratio was proved. In addition, the treatment of hypo- and hypertonic NaCl by the rat urinary bladder has been studied at 0.3-, 0.6- and 0.9-ml filling levels in conjunction with continuous bladder pressure recording. With distension an increased permeability to NaCl (efflux) and/or water (influx) was found in hypertonic conditions. In order to demonstrate this, the decreasing surface to volume ratio with distension has to be considered. Final urea concentrations in hypertonic media significantly exceeded those in hypotonic probes. The phenomenon has been hypothetically attributed to the existence of an arteriovenous counter current exchange within mucosal vessels. In comparison to hypotonic bladder contents, hypertonic media increased basic bladder pressures and phasic pressure amplitudes preferably at the 0.9-ml level. Hence, in context with an increased permeability, distension favors access of the bladder content to detrusor nerve and muscle cells thereby facilitating their excitability.
Adrenalectomy fails to block salt gland secretion in Pekin ducks (Anas platyrhynchos) adapted to 0.9% saline drinking water.	Salt-adapted Pekin ducks were observed during a 2-week period following adrenalectomy so as to test the hypothesis that NaCl secretion by the nasal salt glands depends on adrenocortical steroids. Three days after adrenalectomy the total inputs of fluid and Na+ during a 90-min iv infusion of 1000 mOsm/kg NaCl were 77 and 80% respectively, of those in the sham-operated controls; 7 days after adrenalectomy they were 88 and 90%. Two weeks after adrenalectomy, cardiovascular function had deteriorated slightly and the total outputs of fluid and Na+ had fallen to 65 and 64%, respectively, of the control outputs. The onset of cardiovascular deterioration was delayed by feeding the ducks 0.9% NaCl drinking water ad libitum for 1 month before, and 2 weeks after, adrenalectomy. Adaptive hypertrophy of the nasal salt glands was not steroid-dependent since there was no measurable decrease in the weight of the glands during a 2-week period following adrenalectomy.
Comparison of agar disk diffusion, microdilution broth, and agar dilution for testing antimicrobial susceptibility of coagulase-negative staphylococci.	A collection of 120 oxacillin-susceptible and 120 oxacillin-resistant coagulase-negative staphylococci (CNS) from six tertiary care hospital laboratories were tested by agar disk diffusion, three microdilution broth systems (Sensititre, Dynatech, and Alpkem), and the Vitek AutoMicrobic system for comparison with reference agar dilution results. The antimicrobial agents tested were oxacillin, cefazolin, cefotaxime, cefuroxime, cefamandole, fusidic acid, rifampin, and vancomycin. Incubation was at 30 or 35 degrees C for 24, 48, and 72 h. The broth media were supplemented with 2% NaCl for some antimicrobial agents, and the agar dilution method was used with and without the addition of 4% NaCl. The CNS were identified to species by the method of Kloos and Schleifer. The results showed a lack of concordance between two hospitals with respect to oxacillin susceptibility testing by agar dilution with no NaCl supplement. The reasons are not clear but may be related to variations in media. The 4% NaCl supplement or extended incubation to 48 h eliminated this difference. The cefazolin and cefotaxime susceptibility results in the agar disk diffusion test were unreliable if accepted at face value. Cefamandole testing correlated well with the reference method regardless of the method used, and salt supplementation is not recommended. Most of the oxacillin-resistant CNS were resistant to the other beta-lactam drugs except cefamandole. Of 22 CNS resistant to cefamandole, 21 were S. haemolyticus.
Effect of adrenalectomy on transport in the rat medullary thick ascending limb.	Previous studies in adrenalectomized (Adx) rats suggest that aldosterone may regulate ion transport in the ascending portion of Helen's loop. In order to examine directly the effect of adrenalectomy on transport, medullary thick ascending limb (Mtal) segments were isolated from Adx, Adx replaced with aldosterone (Adx + Ald, 0.5 micrograms X 100 g X body wt X d), and control Sprague-Dawley rats. Both net sodium and net chloride fluxes were significantly less in the Mtal segments from Adx rats compared with those in the control or Adx + Ald group. Physiologic levels of exogenous aldosterone increased net sodium chloride flux toward control values in the Adx + Ald group. Net potassium flux was not different among the three groups. We conclude that adrenalectomy impairs reabsorptive NaCl but not K transport in the Mtal, and that aldosterone restores this process. This reabsorptive defect may contribute to the urinary concentrating and diluting abnormality associated with adrenal insufficiency.
The apparent reflexion coefficient of the leaky corneal endothelium to sodium chloride is about one in the rabbit.	1. Rabbit corneal thickness changes were measured after some of the NaCl in the bathing Ringer solution was substituted by a neutral sugar. 2. The response had three phases which could be closely modelled by three exponentials of different amplitudes and rate constants, originating from the time of the substitution. 3. The first, fastest, phase was interpreted as being driven by the pure osmotic pressure difference developed across the corneal endothelium by the difference between the removed NaCl and the added sugar in the bathing Ringer solution; the second was driven by the diffusion of NaCl out of the stroma; and the third, slowest, phase was driven by the diffusion of the added sugar into the stroma. 4. Consistent with the interpretation, only the third, slowest, phase had its rate constant dependent upon the nature of the substituting neutral sugar. 5. The amplitude of the pure osmotic phase was a linear function of the added sugar. Its amplitude was zero when an equal osmolarity of sugar was substituted for NaCl. 6. It was concluded that the reflexion coefficient of rabbit corneal endothelium to NaCl is the same as that to sucrose, raffinose and stachyose, i.e. about 1. 7. The calculated hydraulic conductivity of the endothelium plus stroma was about the same as that of stroma alone, and it was concluded that the hydraulic conductivity of corneal endothelium is large compared to corneal stroma. 8. It is proposed that most of the hydraulic flow in response to osmotic gradients passes through the cells, whereas salt diffuses through the paracellular route, resulting in an apparent reflexion coefficient of 1. 9. Thus, corneal endothelium is a 'leaky' (12 omega cm2) salt-permeable epithelium and, according to the present study, simultaneously a semi-permeable membrane. To resolve the terminology, we suggest the term 'bi-permeable' for such epithelia which have a high salt permeability but such a very high water permeability as to give apparent reflexion coefficients of 1.
Gastrocystoplasty and colocystoplasty in canines: the metabolic consequences of acute saline and acid loading.	An experimental canine model was developed to quantitate the net transmural ion flux of colon and gastric segments used for augmentation cystoplasty. Gastrocystoplasty (4) or colocystoplasty (4) was constructed in 8 female mongrels. Acute intravenous saline and acid loading experiments were performed 2 to 4 weeks after cystoplasty. The mean solute excretion rates for sodium, chloride, phosphorus and ammonia exhibited opposite trends during acute saline and acid loading in this experimental model. The net flux of chloride, ammonia, phosphorus and sodium ions in the colocystoplasty animals was from the mucosa/urine surface to the serum (reabsorption). The opposite trend was true for the gastrocystoplasty. By not reabsorbing ammonium chloride, the gastrocystoplasty preserved an important renal mechanism for systemic acid elimination. This may help to prevent the hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis that can develop when urine comes in contact with small or large bowel segments.
Load dependency of sodium chloride reabsorption by medullary collecting duct in rat.	During antidiuresis, the medullary collecting duct (MCD) reabsorbs sodium in load-dependent fashion. However, attempts to characterize reabsorption when sodium delivery to the MCD is elevated have not led to clear results, largely due to interfering effects of the strategies employed to raise delivery. In the present study, microcatheterization was performed in rats undergoing water diuresis induced solely by infusion of 2.5% dextrose in water, and in rats where solute delivery to the MCD was markedly elevated by the combination of water diuresis with acute potassium chloride loading. The results show that delivery of sodium was elevated by the experimental maneuvers, averaging 7.01 +/- 0.83 mumol . min-1 . g kidney wt-1 compared with a normal antidiuretic value in the literature of 3.50 +/- 0.40 mumol . min-1 . g-1. Sodium and chloride reabsorptions were increased proportionally, indicating that the MCD has a large capacity to transport sodium chloride. Normalized sodium reabsorption remained high, varying in different series between 80 +/- 10 and 96 +/- 1% of the delivered load. Thus the MCD reabsorbed an average of 6.37 +/- 0.70 mumol . min-1 . g-1 of sodium while sodium excretion was 0.52 +/- 0.11 mumol . min-1 . g-1. The results emphasize the importance of MCD sodium chloride reabsorption for determination of final urinary salt excretion, and thus for regulation of body salt balance.
The role of osmotic effects in haloadaptation of Vibrio costicola.	Growth rates of Vibrio costicola showed a broad optimum between 0.8 and 1.5 M-NaCl, and there was no growth above 3.3 M-NaCl in a peptone-based medium. The minimum requirement of 0.5 M-NaCl for growth in NaCl alone was reduced to 0.3 M-NaCl when the total solute concentration was raised to 0.5 to 1.0 M equivalent with sucrose or glycerol. Compared with equivalent NaCl concentrations, higher concentrations of sucrose were more inhibitory to growth, whereas glycerol had less effect. Increasing the medium NaCl concentration suddenly by 2- or 3-fold with either a constant starting, or final, salt concentration showed that, after the shift-up, the lag in growth, the rate of growth, and the inhibition of phospholipid synthesis depended both on the final NaCl concentration and the magnitude of the shift in salinity. The time-courses of phospholipid synthesis following a 2- or 3-fold shift-up in NaCl or sucrose media were very similar and exhibited a relative increase in phosphatidylglycerol synthesis over that of phosphatidylethanolamine. This 'switch-over' was not seen following shift-up in glycerol media when there was also a stimulation, rather than inhibition, of phospholipid synthesis. It is concluded that during phenotypic haloadaptation of V. costicola, osmotic effects play a significant part in the sensing of and response to raised external salinity.
Comparative studies on lipid metabolism in various salt transporting organs of the European eel (Anguilla anguilla). Mono-unsaturated phosphatidylethanolamine as a key substance.	1. Incorporation in vivo into tissue lipids of (1-14C)acetate added to the water in the incubation tank showed the same relative distribution pattern of 14C-activity among various phospholipids in the gills, the esophagus and the intestine, when the eel was incubated in sea-water; in fresh water this pattern was found only in the intestine, while both the gills and the esophagus showed a relative excess of 14C-label in phosphatidylethanolamine (PE). 2. Similar studies with (32P)phosphate also showed a relative excess of (32P)PE in both the gills and esophagus in fresh water compared to sea-water, and no such difference in the intestine. 3. As long as the labelled precursors were added to the water in the incubation tank both (14C)PE and (32P)PE were not identical to unlabelled PE on thin-layer chromatograms, and the 14C-labelled lipids contained predominantly C16:1 and C18:1 fatty acids. 4. However, when the two precursors were injected directly into the eel there was no longer any marked difference between the distribution patterns of radioactivity among gill phospholipids in fresh water and sea-water; there was no longer any difference between labelled and unlabelled PE on thin-layer chromatograms, and the 14C-labelled gill lipids contained predominantly C16:0 and C18:0 fatty acids. 5. The corresponding liver lipids were affected neither by a change in environmental salinity nor in precursor application.
Sodium chloride, water and urea handling in the rat renal medulla: a computer simulation.	A dynamic rat renal medullary model was employed to study how independent control of excretion of various substances is achieved. Salt and water reabsorptive coupling was heterogeneous in the distal nephron. Diversion of filtrate to juxtamedullary nephrons retained salt with little effect on water or urea, a response enhanced by concomitant reduction in inner medullary blood flow. Urine concentration required high permeability and low flow in medullary blood vessels and active inner medullary salt transport. Collecting duct urea movement was closely coupled to that of water and urea recycling was enhanced by incorporation of nephrovascular bundles.
Actions of angiotensin on area postrema of the rat.	Previous studies have reported that rats drink more saline after area postrema has been removed. The results presented here indicate that prolonged administration of angiotensin II into area postrema of unrestrained rats at 4 pmol/h also caused them to drink more saline. They drank more when angiotensin was released in the anterolateral part of the organ than when it was released anteromedially. Diurnal variation of drinking was not disordered. Dose-response curves showed that rats lacking area postrema drank more saline in response to systemic angiotensin than sham operated animals. The very large 'spontaneous' consumption of saline by rats lacking area postrema was not diminished by saralasin, an angiotensin antagonist. It is concluded that area postrema is a site where systemic angiotensin can act to promote sodium consumption: and that although removing area postrema increases the sensitivity of the drinking response to systemic angiotensin, this enhanced sensitivity is not the cause of the increased sodium consumption.
Ventilatory regulation of extracellular pH in crayfish exposed to changes in water titration alkalinity and NaCl concentration.	The mechanisms of extracellular pH regulation were studied in normoxic crayfish Astacus leptodactylus during changes in water ionic composition at 13 degrees C. In artificial waters all ambient physico-chemical properties were controlled. Ventilatory changes and the time course of hemolymph acid-base balance, ABB, were followed after a decrease of water titration alkalinity, TAw, from 4 to 2 meq X L-1 simultaneously associated with either an increase of NaCl concentration, [NaCl]w, from 0.5 to 5 mmol X L-1, or a decrease of [NaCl]w, from 0.5 to 0.15 mmol X L-1. The ABB changes were characterized by a hypercapnic acidosis attributable to the decrease of TAw. Depending on the simultaneous change of [NaCl]w, two different mechanisms of compensation were observed. When [NaCl]w increased, the compensation was metabolic: the ventilatory requirement, VW X MO2-1, did not vary. When [NaCl]w decreased, the compensation was ventilatory: VW X MO2-1 doubled. It is concluded that in water-breathers ventilation, contrary to what is generally accepted, can play a role in extracellular ABB regulation.
Cloacal resorption of salt and water in the Galah (Cacatua roseicapilla).	1. The transmural net flow of salt and water in the coprodeum and large intestine of the Galah (Cacatua roseicapilla), an Australian xerophilic parrot, was measured by an in vivo perfusion technique. The main goal of the study was to understand what happens when the hyperosmotic ureteral urine formed in the dehydrated state is regurgitated into the cloaca. Buffered perfusion fluids, hyper- and isosmotic to plasma, with varying NaCl and KCl concentrations, were used. [(14)C]polyethylene glycol served as an unabsorbable water marker.2. The cloacal Na(+) and Cl(-) absorption rates were nearly parallel and at low luminal concentrations roughly proportional to the intraluminal concentrations. At higher concentrations the Na(+) absorption rate showed saturation. The maximal Na(+) flow was 217 muequiv/kg.hr, the concentration at half maximal flow 181 m-equiv/l. The Na(+) absorption rate was not impaired by a high K(+) concentration. K(+) was secreted into the intestine, except at high intraluminal K(+) concentrations where resorption was observed.4. The apparent osmotic permeability coefficient was 0.85 mul./kg.hr.m-osmole at an average osmotic difference of 446 m-osmole between lumen and plasma; it was higher at lower differences. In the (near) absence of an osmotic difference across the cloacal epithelium the solute-linked water flow was 5.0 mul. H(2)O/muequiv Na(+).5. It is concluded that the hyperosmotic ureteral urine formed in the dehydrated state can pass into the cloaca without a water loss. A Na(+) absorption of around 70% of the ureteral output is likely.
Small intestinal sugar and amino acid transport in semistarvation.	The effect of semistarvation on small intestinal transport of D-glucose, L-valine, and NaCl was studied in an in vitro system of isolated rat brush border membrane vesicles. Whereas semistarvation enhanced the transport rate for L-valine by 19-29%, there was no change in D-glucose transport. When energy in the form of a NaSCN gradient was supplied to the membrane vesicles prepared from semistarved animals, L-valine was concentrated to a greater extent than those from well-fed animals. Strain differences were observed in the manner semistarvation affected NaCl transport across the brush border membrane. Semistarvation increased the NaCl transport rate by a factor of 3.5 in one rat strain and not at all in another. These results provide a partial explanation for the cellular basis of elevated neutral amino acid absorption by the small intestine in semistarvation.
Minoxidil.	Minoxidil is an orally active vasodilator for treatment of severe hypertension. In combination with diuretics and beta-adrenergic blocking agents, it is effective treatment for more than 80% of patients whose blood pressure has been inadequately controlled with combinations of other been inadequately controlled with combinations of other antihypertensive drugs. Major adverse reactions include reflex activation of the adrenergic nervous system, renal sodium retention, and hypertrichosis. Despite the possibility of adverse reactions, minoxidil is indicated in patients whose blood pressure cannot be controlled with conventional therapy, in persons with major adverse reactions to other drugs, and in patients who are candidates for bilateral nephrectomy for control of hypertension.
A quantitative survey of salt and water excretion.	The present series of papers on salt and water excretion in birds offers surveys of the state of the art in the different fields. To complete the picture this introduction considers the quantitative role of the various avenues of salt and ater excretion. First, the fraction of total water lost by evaporation; second, the role of salt glands in the elimination of a salt load in birds with functional salt glands; third, the interaction of kidney and cloaca in birds without functional glands.
Salt and water excretion by birds: the lower intestine as an integrator of renal and intestinal excretion.	1. In the fowl, the small intestine is important for net absorption of Ca2+ and K+, but not for Na+ nor water (in this and several other species). 2. Net water absorption in birds with large saccate caeca occurs in caeca greater than rectum greater than coprodeum, but net Na+ absorption (an active process motivating other absorptive functions) occurs in rectum less than caeca and coprodeum. 3. Interspecific variability and the scarcity of comparative studies militate against broad, well-founded generalisations in this subject.
Influence of cellular and paracellular conductance patterns on epithelial transport and metabolism.	Theoretical analysis of transepithelial active Na transport is often based on equivalent electrical circuits comprising discrete parallel active and passive pathways. Recent findings show, however, that Na+ pumps are distributed over the entire basal lateral surface of epithelial cells. This suggests that Na+ that has been actively transported into paracellular channels may to some extent return to the apical (mucosal) bathing solution, depending on the relative conductances of the pathways via the tight junctions and the lateral intercellular spaces. Such circulation, as well as the relative conductance of cellular and paracellular pathways, may have an important influence on the relationships between parameters of transcellular and transepithelial active transport and metabolism. These relationships were examined by equivalent circuit analysis of active Na transport, Na conductance, the electromotive force of Na transport, the "stoichiometry" of transport, and the degree of coupling of transport to metabolism. Although the model is too crude to permit precise quantification, important qualitative differences are predicted between "loose" and "tight" epithelia in the absence and presence of circulation. In contrast, there is no effect on the free energy of metabolic reaction estimated from a linear thermodynamic formalism. Also of interest are implications concerning the experimental evaluation of passive paracellular conductance following abolition of active transport, and the use of the cellular voltage-divider ratio to estimate the relative conductances of apical and basal lateral plasma membranes.
HgCl2-induced acute renal failure in the Goldblatt rat.	These experiments were designed to test the hypothesis that renal renin is an important determinant of the severity of acute renal failure in rats. Two-kidney "Goldblatt rats" were prepared by constricting the left renal arteries with silver clips and leaving the contralateral arteries untouched. After 2 to 5 weeks, the clips were removed, and HgCl2 was injected in 13 rats (1 ml/kg body weight of 4.7 mg of HgCl2 per milliliter of 140 mM NaCl). These rats exhibited the characteristic features of acute renal failure 24 hr later. As compared with a group of seven similarly treated rats injected with 140 mM NaCl without HgCl2, GFR, V, and UNaV were reduced, and %FE H2O and %FE Na were increased. As assessed by these parameters, severity of functional impairment was equal in both kidneys. However, cortical renin was 28 times higher in the left kidney than in the right. These results are inconsistent with the hypothesis.
Volume absorption in the pars recta. II. Hydraulic conductivity coefficient.	We evaluated the hydraulic conductivity (Pf, micron s-1) of superficial proximal straight tubules isolated from rabbit kidney. Tubules were perfused with hypotonic (270 mosmol/kg H2O) and bathed with isotonic (290 mosmol/kg H2O) NaCl buffers at 25 degrees C. Due to the tendency of transepithelial osmosis plus solute entry to produce osmotic equilibrium along the perfused length, we observed that the total net volume absorption ('JV, nl min-1) increased from 0.64 to 2.21 when the perfusion rate (VO, nl min-1) was increased from 11 to 45 in a group of tubules with an average length of 0.86 mm. From a 'JV of 2.21 nl min-1 at VO = 45 nl min-1 we computed a minimum Pf of 2,200 micron s-1. And extrapolation of the data to VO leads to infinity gave a Pf value of 5,200-7,600 micron s-1. The same perfusion rate dependence of 'JV in a group of tubules with an average length of 3.29 mm gave quantitatively similar results. A theoretical analysis of radial osmosis occurring simultaneously with axial osmotic equilibration showed that Pf values in the range of 3,000-4,000 micron s-1 accurately predicted the observed relations between VO, 'JV, and tubule length.
Comparison using central core model of renal medulla of the rabbit and rat.	The studies presented here use a central core model of the renal medulla, the details of which have been given elsewhere (Foster et al., Mathematical Biosci. 32: 307-335, 337-360, 1976). The central core model of the rabbit medulla predicts concentration gradients and volume flow rates in line with what is known for the rabbit. The handling of urea, however, is not consistent with the scheme proposed by Kokko and Rector (Kidney Intern. 2: 214-233, 1972). Moreover, the low concentration of urea predicted for the urine suggests an absence in the model of some form of mediated transport for urea in the inner medulla. The central core model of the rat medulla failed to predict results consistent with what is known about the rat. Substitution of the rabbit thermodynamic parameters into the model for the rat resulted in predictions that more closely resembled what one might expect, but were not entirely satisfactory. The implication is that there may be an interspecies difference in the concentration machinery between the rabbit and rat.
Sodium-depositing function of the skin in white rats]	The sodium deposing function of the skin in Wistar albino rats under conditions of different salt loads were studied. 6 mEq NaCl per os was followed by an increase in sodium content of the skin on account of the exchangeable fraction. The diet with high content of sodium (15 mEq a day during 30 days) led to saturation of the skin storage structures, the blood sodium concentration after a single salt load increasing sharply. The storage of sodium in the skin is, evidently, carried out with the aid of the cation by glycosamino--glycans. The increase in exchangeable sodium of the skin under the condition of highsodium regimen is, evidently, due to an increase in sulphated GAG.
Effect of metavanadate on papillary water uptake]	It has been examined the influence of vanadium on the papillary osmotic water-salts uptake in order to differentiate it from water flow of other biological substrates as amphibia epithelia. Between the different vanadium compounds only the metavanadate is active and only after administration in the abdominal vein. The general influence of metavanadate is a facilitating one and concerns: electrical receptor afferent discharge, osmotic water uptake and ciliary motility. At the papillary level therefore vanadium is not at all an inhibitory agent as observed in many biological substrates. This observation rule out any analogy in the processes of water inflow operating respectively at the fungiform papillae and amphibia epithelia.
Dihydroxy bile salt-induced alterations in NaCl transport across the rabbit colon.	The effects of increasing mucosal or serosal concentrations (1-4 mM) of taurochenodeoxycholate (TCDC) on sodium chloride transport across the isolated, short-circuited rabbit colon were examined. Mucosal TCDC produced dose-related increases in tissue conductance (Gt) and the unidirectional fluxes of Na+ and Cl- and dose-related decreases in net NaCl absorption. At 4 mM mucosal TCDC, Gt was increased fivefold, net sodium flux (JNanet) was reduced 50%, and JClnet was abolished. Serosal TCDC also produced dose-dependent changes in permeability that were quantitatively different. Four millimolar serosal TCDC produced a 2.7-fold increase in Gt, abolished JNanet, and stimulated electrogenic Cl- secretion. TCDC-induced Cl- secretion was stimulated by 10(-5) M serosal TCDC, inhibited by serosal furosemide or ouabain, did not alter theophylline-induced secretion (and vice versa), and occurred in the absence of serosal Ca2+. It is suggested that 1) TCDC inhibition of sodium absorption is indirect (i.e., not simply due to a reduction in the activity of the Na "pump," since Cl- secretion persists during conditions that abolish JNanet) and 2) TCDC induces Cl- secretion by enhancing the activity of basolateral membrane adenylate cyclase.
Post-vasectomy impairment of transepithelial water reabsorption in the initial segment of the epididymis.	Using a modified split-droplet micropuncture technique there was an impairment of water reabsorption in the initial segment of the epididymis 2 weeks post vasectomy. This was supported by light-microscopy. The cause and a possible reversal of this impairment are not apparent. However, in men, low sperm counts post vasectomy reversal and eventually otherwise could be attributed not only to suppression of spermatogenesis in the testis but also to impairment of sperm concentration in the epididymis.
The effect of salt concentration on the iron-binding properties of human transferrin.	The salt dependence of the iron-binding properties of transferrin was studied by urea/polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis. The distribution of iron between the N-terminal and C-terminal binding sites under equilibrium conditions and the rates of release of iron from the two sites were studied. It was found that salt increases the thermodynamic stability of iron binding in the N-terminal site relative to the C-terminal site. Similar behaviour is observed for the kinetics of iron release, where salt retards the rate of removal of iron from the N-terminal site but facilitates removal from the C-terminal site.
Dopamine and renal homeostatic control of osmolarity and extracellular fluid volume in initial conditions of hydro-saline depletion and retention. I. Renal functional parameters]	Renal effects of dopamine (DA) infusion (0,1 micrograms.kg-1.min-1) in healthy human subject are strongly dependent on the basal condition of the extra-cellular fluid volume. The renal vasodilation and the inhibition of isosmotic sodium reabsorption (as % of sodium filtered load) induced by DA in hydro-saline retention are highly blunted in hydro-saline depletion. Moreover the inhibitory effect on anisosmotic sodium reabsorption (as % of sodium distal load), observed in hydro-saline retention, is reversed in hydro-saline depletion. Thus, DA is likely to behave as a sodium excretion regulator.
Dopamine and renal homeostatic control of osmolarity and extracellular fluid volume in initial conditions of hydro-saline depletion and retention. II. Relationship between the renal functional parameters]	In hydro-saline depletion dopamine (DA) infusion (0,1 microgram.kg-1.min-1) elicits different renal effects than it does in hydro-saline retention. It is suggested that in hydro-saline depletion DA activates, besides vasal DA receptors, also vasal and tubular adrenergic receptors. Such adrenergic activation, either direct or presynaptically mediated, can account for both the decrease in the hyperemic response and the increase in the anisosmotic sodium reabsorption.
Sulpiride and renal action of dopamine in hydro-saline depletion in humans]	The effect of sulpiride (racemic form) pretreatment on renal action of dopamine (DA) has been investigated in 8 hydro-saline depleted human subjects. Two studies were carried out in the presence and in the absence of sulpiride, respectively. DA was infused in a subpressor dose (0,1 microgram.kg-1 . min-1) during induced hypotonic polyuria. The experimental results suggest that tubular DA effects are enhanced whilst glomerular DA effects are reversed by the presence of sulpiride.
Role of hepatic nerves in long-term control of NaCl homeostasis in Wistar-Kyoto rats.	This study was designed to investigate the effects of hepatic denervation (HD) on NaCl balance and arterial blood pressure in conscious Wistar-Kyoto rats maintained on normal or high-NaCl food. When rats were fed normal NaCl food (0.45% NaCl), HD had no significant effect on NaCl balance and arterial pressure. However, when rats were fed high-NaCl food (8% NaCl for 10 days), NaCl balance became more positive in HD rats than in sham rats. Furthermore, mean arterial pressure in HD rats (120 +/- 2 mmHg) was higher than that in sham rats (108 +/- 3 mmHg). These results indicate that the hepatic nerves play a significant role in the long-term control of NaCl balance and arterial pressure during high-NaCl food intake.
Sodium sensitivity of blood pressure.	A variety of techniques have been used by different investigators to characterize blood pressure responses to changes in sodium balance. Despite the arbitrary nature of the definition of salt sensitivity, many of these studies have demonstrated consistency in the factors associated with the heterogeneous responses to the methods used. This review surveys current approaches to the assessment of blood pressure responsivity to alterations in sodium and extracellular fluid balance in normotensive as well as hypertensive humans. In addition, new observations related to the possible mechanisms involved are highlighted.
Hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis function in pubertal male and female siblings with glucocorticoid-treated nonsalt-wasting 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase deficiency congenital adrenal hyperplasia.	We report pubertal maturation and dynamic studies of gonadotropin and gonadal hormone secretion in long term glucocorticoid-treated siblings with nonsalt-wasting classic adrenal and gonadal 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3 beta HSD) deficiency. The 18-yr-old female siblings spontaneously developed thelarche and menarche at 10 and 12 yr, respectively, and manifested irregular menses, hirsutism, and polycystic ovaries at 17 yr. The 16-yr-old male sibling spontaneously developed secondary sex characteristics at age 11 yr and exhibited Tanner IV-V pubic hair, a 6.5 x 3.0-cm surgically repaired penis, and enlarged nonnodular testes. Overnight (2200-0700 h) plasma gonadotropin (every 20 min) and gonadal steroid levels (every 2 h) under ACTH adrenal suppression revealed the following. In the male sibling, there were overall normal Tanner V male LH (3-21 mIU/mL) and FSH (1.2-13 mIU/mL) levels, normal peak frequency and amplitude of LH (70 +/- 62 min and 15 +/- 3 mIU/mL, respectively) and FSH (65 +/- 28 min and 13 +/- 3 mIU/mL), and low normal Tanner V testosterone (T) levels (11.4-17.9 nmol/L). In the female sibling, there were normal follicular phase range LH (10-28 mIU/mL) and FSH (5.1-17.2 mIU/mL) levels, normal peak frequency and amplitude of LH (96 +/- 17 min and 22 +/- 4.5 mIU/mL, respectively) and FSH (62 +/- 27 min, 13 +/- 4 mIU/mL), and early follicular phase estradiol (E2) levels (100-170 pmol/L). The LH-releasing hormone-stimulated LH response was in the normal adult range in the male and normal for the early follicular phase in the female. In contrast, ACTH and adrenal delta 5-steroid responses to CRH administration were elevated in each sibling. Gonadal suppression via Norlutin administration (30 mg/day for 3 days) after prolonged adrenal suppression by dexamethasone resulted in suppression of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and E2 in the female and DHEA and T in the male. Gonadal stimulation via hCG administration (5000 IU/day for 3 days, im) during continuous adrenal suppression resulted in a low E2 response in the female (200 pmol/L; control, 295-660 pmol/L) and a low T response in the male (15.3 nmol/L; control, 17-39 nmol/L), whereas delta 5-17-hydroxypregnenolone and DHEA levels rose 2- to 4.7-fold in each sibling. In conclusion, despite partial gonadal 3 beta HSD deficiency, the dynamics of gonadotropin and gonadal hormone secretion in these siblings indicate the absence of increased LH secretion, in contrast to the markedly increased ACTH secretion resulting from adrenal 3 beta HSD deficiency.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Acute effects of gentamicin on thick ascending limb function in the rat.	It is well established that the aminoglycoside antibiotics can adversely affect proximal tubule function. Predominantly indirect evidence suggests that aminoglycosides may also affect function of more distal nephron segments. The present study utilized whole kidney clearance, in vivo micropuncture and in vitro microperfusion to directly determine whether acute gentamicin treatment affects sodium chloride transport in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle. Gentamicin (25 mg/kg) significantly increased urine flow, as well as sodium, potassium and chloride excretion within 15 min of intravenous injection. Glomerular filtration rate and proximal tubule fluid reabsorption were not altered by acute gentamicin treatment. In contrast, both fractional and absolute loop chloride transport was significantly decreased. In the in vitro microperfused medullary thick ascending limb, luminal but not basolateral administration of gentamicin (1 mM) significantly decreased chloride reabsorption when compared to time controls. These data suggest that the increased urine and electrolyte excretion associated with acute gentamicin treatment is, at least in part, a consequence of decreased transport in the thick ascending limb of Henle's loop.
Biobehavioral effects of extended salt loading and conflict stress in intact baboons.	Behavioral stressors may inhibit sodium excretion, potentially increasing plasma volume and elevating blood pressure during chronic exposure. Blood pressure regulation may be especially deranged during manipulations that further challenge the kidney, such as a diet high in salt content. The effects on blood pressure and other variables of combined behavioral stress (food/shock conflict) and dietary salt (12 g NaCl per day; 218 mEq Na+ per day) were examined in adult male baboons over the course of 1 year. Mean arterial pressure was not significantly elevated over baseline after 5 months of high dietary salt alone (6 +/- 5 mmHg) but was maximally elevated by an average of 17 (+/- 3 SEM) mmHg after 5 months of combined salt and conflict stress. Control baboons showed no significant trends in mean arterial pressure across the same time period. Individual subjects whose blood pressure was "salt+stress resistant" or "salt+stress sensitive" were differentiated by their degree of pressure diuresis and natriuresis, urinary free cortisol, and a behavioral index of stress sensitivity. The data indicate additive effects of chronic high dietary salt intake and behavioral stressors on blood pressure in nonhuman primates that are dependent on renal function and pituitary-adrenocortical activity.
Seawater effects on various Vibrio species.	This study compared the effects of sea water on Vibrio cholerae and six other Vibrio spp. Survival in seawater microcosms as well as uptake of a carbonated substrate in marine or non-marine conditions were investigated. Except for V. vulnificus becoming non-culturable, all the other selected species survived in sea water for at least 15 days at 20 degrees C. Depending on the species tested, the substrate was better transported in a high salt medium (V. cholerae, V. fluvialis and V. metschnikovii), than in a low salt medium (V. fluvialis, V. furnissii, V. parahaemolyticus and V. vulnificus). In terms of the response of the species to marine conditions, no correlation was found between survival in sea water and substrate uptake.
The macula densa mechanism for control of renin secretion.	Many questions remain concerning the precise mechanism by which the luminal signal for renin secretion is transmitted from the MD to the JG granular cell. It appears likely that a number of pathways may participate in MD-mediated changes in renin release, some of the agents serving to modulate release, others participating directly in signal transmission. Collectively, the current information suggests a transmission pathway that involves several steps. First, changes occurring in MD NaCl transport, which result directly from alterations in luminal NaCl concentration, act to initiate the response. Second, conveyance of this signal to the extraglomerular mesangial cells via a change in the ionic environment of the EGM field and/or a paracrine factor produced by the MD (perhaps NO) appear likely to be the next step. The subsequent steps probably include changes in prostaglandin production by the EGM, and possible participation of other paracrine factors produced by both endothelial and extraglomerular mesangial cells.
Neural regulation of renin secretion.	In summary, there is now considerable evidence for an interaction between the renal sympathetic nerves and the baroreceptor and macula densa mechanisms in the control of renin secretion rate. Renal sympathetic nerve activity varies from minute to minute throughout the day. At times, increases in renal sympathetic nerve activity sufficient to cause a direct neural release of renin from juxtaglomerular cells may occur. Under other circumstances, changes in renal sympathetic nerve activity may be more modest, but still sufficient to modulate the renin secretion rate responses mediated by other mechanisms. The studies reviewed show that prevailing renal sympathetic nerve activity can modulate the magnitude of the renin secretion rate response to stimulation of the renal vascular baroreceptor and the tubular macula densa receptor mechanisms. The degree of interaction between the neural and non-neural mechanisms is dependent on the level of activation of the non-neural mechanisms and the intensity of renal sympathetic nerve activity.
The renal proximal tubule renin-angiotensin system.	In conclusion, a complete RAS is present in the mammalian proximal tubule that is potentially autocrine and paracrine in nature. Maneuvers that stimulate renin in JG cells and renal vasculature appear to also stimulate renin in the proximal tubule. The subcellular localization of the different components and the regulation of this epithelial RAS still remain to be defined. This RAS may be important in regulation of proximal tubule NaCl and NaHCO3 transport. Finally, one can speculate that activation of this RAS may play a pathogenetic role in some patients with essential hypertension and in the hypertension and cyst growth seen in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease.
Calcium transport mediated by NhaA, a Na+/H+ antiporter from Escherichia coli.	In everted membrane vesicles of E. coli strain EP432/pGM42, which has only one Na+/H+ antiporter (NhaA), external CaCl2 inhibits dissipation of the respiration-dependent delta pH in response to the addition of NaCl at pH 7.5, and decreases equilibrium concentration of the intravesicular Na+. In the NhaA proteoliposomes, imposition of an artificial delta pH (acid inside) leads to the several-fold accumulation of calcium. The apparent Km for this delta pH-driven Ca2+ uptake at pH 8.5 is 2 mM, and the Vmax is 1.79 mumol/min/mg of protein. Dissipation of delta pH causes release of calcium from the vesicles. CaCl2 was found to inhibit the delta pH-driven Na+ uptake mediated by reconstituted NhaA, and vice versa. Further, heterological Ca2+/Na+ exchange has been demonstrated in proteoliposomes containing NhaA. Transmembrane electric potential difference proved to drive this process. All these data are consistent with the assumption that NhaA can also catalyze Ca2+/H+ exchange.
Mutations in the type II 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase gene in a patient with classic salt-wasting 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase deficiency congenital adrenal hyperplasia.	Inherited adrenal and gonadal 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3 beta-HSD) deficiency is most likely caused by a mutation of the type II 3 beta-HSD gene. Cloning and sequencing of exons I-II, III, and IV and portions of the adjacent introns, amplified by polymerase chain reaction using primers specific for the type II gene, in one male pseudohermaphrodite with salt-wasting classic 3 beta-HSD deficiency congenital adrenal hyperplasia revealed the same mutation in all nine clones of exon IV consisting of a missense mutation at codon 248 [GTC(Val)-->AAC(Asn)] followed by a frameshift mutation at codon 249 [CGA (Arg)-->TA], resulting in a stop codon TAG, and normal sequences of exon I-II and III and the adjacent portions of introns. The same codon 248 and 249 mutations were found on one clone of his mother's DNA, but two other clones revealed normal sequences. These data indicate a homozygous combined missense/frameshift mutation in exon IV of the type II 3 beta-HSD gene resulting in severe salt-wasting adrenal and gonadal 3 beta-HSD deficiency in the patient.
Hypertension in African Americans: the role of sodium chloride and extracellular fluid volume.	African Americans show higher blood pressure earlier in life, and have a greater incidence of hypertension that is manifest earlier, is more severe and is associated with a greater risk of cardiovascular complications as compared with their white colleagues. Although a variety of mechanisms have been implicated in this phenomenon, a single abnormal factor is unlikely. The role of sodium (salt) sensitivity of blood pressure, renal function, related vasoactive factors, and intracellular ion transport systems will be briefly reviewed for their potential involvement. Speculative hypotheses concerning potential causes of the enhanced salt-sensitivity observed in African Americans will be offered. The implications of these findings for the treatment of hypertension in African Americans will also be briefly discussed.
Energy requirements of the fat sand rat (Psammomys obesus) when consuming the saltbush, Atriplex halimus: a review.	The fat sand rat (Psammomys obesus; Gerbillinae), a diurnal gerbillid rodent, is herbivorous and able to thrive while consuming only the saltbush Atriplex halimus (Chenopodiaceae), a plant relatively low in energy content and high in ash and water. Before consuming A. halimus leaves, fat sand rats scraped off the outer layer with their teeth. This removed much of the electrolytes but increased gross energy and organic matter content of the leaves by only about 3.1%. Basal metabolic rate of fat sand rats was 168 kJ.kg-0.75.d-1, 57 to 60% of that expected for a eutherian mammal of its body size, and average daily metabolic rate was 499 kJ.kg-0.75.d-1, 88% of that expected for a rodent of its body mass. Field metabolic rate was 565 kJ.kg-0.75.d-1 in summer and 680 kJ.kg-0.75.d-1 in winter. The rate of energy expenditure during summer was 60% of that expected for a herbivore and 83% of that expected for a desert eutherian mammal of its body mass. The difference in rate of energy expenditure between winter and summer was taken as thermoregulatory costs. Fat sand rats appear to be well adapted to high air temperatures but less so to low air temperatures. The efficiency of utilization of energy of A. halimus for maintenance was only 0.32 and for growth only 0.30 and their respective heat increments of feeding were 0.68 and 0.70. This low utilization of feed plus its low energy yield and high water content forced fat sand rats to consume large quantities of forage for maintenance. In spite of this, there are several advantages for consuming mainly this diet, namely: (1) it provides a more stable diet throughout the year than do seeds; (2) fat sand rats have no competition for this food resource from other rodents; and (3) fat sand rat burrows are at the base of the plants and therefore they expend minimal energy for foraging.
Binding of lactoferrin to bacterial cells of the Clostridium species and their agglutination.	Cell agglutination in cell suspensions of 10 strains of Clostridium by lactoferrin (Lf) was observed by obtaining the ratio of increased absorbance (RIA) at 450 nm. The RIA values were very different among the species, being higher in the cell suspensions with bovine Lf (bLf) than in those with human Lf. The binding ability of bLf to the bacterial cells was also observed by an enzyme-linked ligand-binding assay, using the conjugate of iron-free or iron-saturated bLf with horseradish peroxidase (HRPO). The binding ability of bLf was very different among the 10 species, and showed a significant correlation with the cell agglutination of each strain. bLf formed a complex with the cells of C. perfringens, did not dissociate in 2 M NaCl or 4 M urea, but did dissociate in 1 M KSCN. These results suggest that the agglutination of cells of the Clostridium species by bLf is probably caused by the cooperative action of at least electrostatic and hydrophobic interactions between bLf and certain components of the cell surface.
Function of the N-acetyl-L-histidine system in the vertebrate eye. Evidence in support of a role as a molecular water pump.	N-acetyl-L-histidine (NAH) is a major constituent of poikilotherm brain, eye, heart, and muscle, but for which there is no known function. NAH is characterized by high tissue concentrations, a high tissue/extracellular fluid (ECF) gradient, and by a continuous selective and regulated efflux into ECF. In the eye, there is a complete compartmentalization of the synthetic and hydrolytic enzymes, with synthesis of NAH from AcCoA and L-histidine (His) occurring in the lens, and its hydrolysis to acetate and His restricted to surrounding ocular fluids. Using 14C-isotopes, the cycling of NAH between lens and ocular fluids in a simple support medium consisting of NaCl (0.9%), Ca2+ (4 mEq/L) and D-glucose (5 mM) at pH 7.4 has previously been observed. In the present study, using the isolated lens of the goldfish eye, each of the components of that support medium has been individually varied in order to determine its effect on NAH release down its intercompartmental gradient. As a result of these and related studies, it is suggested that NAH may function as a metabolically recyclable gradient-driven molecular water pump. It is proposed that water influx or generation of metabolic water serves as the trigger mechanism to open a Ca-dependent gate for the release of NAH down its gradient, along with its associated water. Preliminary analyses suggest that in addition to its potential for multiple daily cycles, a strongly ionized hydrophilic molecule, such as NAH, may include a large power function as a result of its attraction to water, and it has been calculated that an aqua complex of each NAH molecule may have 33 dipole-dipole-associated water molecules as it passes into ECF. It is this unique combination of a capacity for multiple cycles per day, coupled with a large power function, that may allow for such an intracellular osmolyte to be present in relatively low concentration in comparison to total cellular osmolality, and yet to perform a large and important task with little expenditure of energy. With each NAH molecule recycled up to 10 times/d, and a power factor of 33, there could be 330 mmol of water transported/mmol of NAH each day. With typical NAH concentrations in brains of poikilothermic vertebrates of 5-10 mmol/kg, there is the potential for up to 3.3 mol (60 mL) of water to be removed each day/kg of brain, a value that represents about 8% of total brain water content. Dewatering of the released osmolyte would occur in two additional steps, consisting of its hydrolysis and the subsequent active uptake of its metabolites. It is also suggested that NAH is the archetype of several metabolically and structurally related cellular osmolytes found in both poikilotherms and homeotherms, for which there is similarly no known function, and these may form a family of cycling hydrophilic osmolytes that serve as molecular water pumps in a variety of tissues. These include the basic His containing derivatives: NAH, carnosine, anserine, ophidine, and homocarnosine, and the acidic aspartate derivatives: N-acetyl-L-aspartate (NAA) and N-acetyl-L-aspartylglutamate (NAAG). In each of these cases, the high intracellular/extracellular osmolyte gradient appears to be maintained by combining a hydrophilic protein amino acid with a nonprotein moiety to block its use in other intracellular metabolic pathways, and by blocking catabolism of the derivative by maintaining its hydrolytic enzyme in an extracytosolic membrane or extracellular compartment. Unlike other known water-regulating mechanisms, the proposed cellular system is unique in that as a water pump, it can function as a water regulator independently of extracellular solute composition or osmolality. Finally, based on the hypothesis developed, the NAH system would represent the first cellular water pump to be identified.
Loss of CFTR chloride channels alters salt absorption by cystic fibrosis airway epithelia in vitro.	Cystic fibrosis (CF) is caused by the loss of functional CFTR Cl- channels. However, it is not understood how this defect disrupts salt and liquid movement in the airway or whether it alters the NaCl concentration in the thin liquid film covering the airway surface. Using a new approach, we found that CF airway surface liquid had a higher NaCl concentration than normal. Both CF and non-CF epithelia absorbed salt and liquid; however, expression of CFTR Cl- channels was required for maximal absorption. Thus, loss of CFTR elevates the salt concentration in CF airway surface liquid and in sweat by related mechanisms; the elevated NaCl concentration is due to a block in transcellular Cl- movement. The high NaCl may predispose CF airways to bacterial infections by inhibiting endogenous antibacterial defenses.
Monovalent cation fluxes and physiological changes of Debaryomyces hansenii grown at high concentrations of KCl and NaCl.	Debaryomyces hansenii showed an increased growth in the presence of either 1 M, KCl or 1 M NaCl and a low acidification of the medium, higher for the cells grown in the presence of NaCl. These cells accumulated high concentrations of the cations, and showed a very fast capacity to exchange either Na+ or K+ for the opposite cation. They showed a rapid uptake of 86Rb+ and 22Na+. 86Rb+ transport was saturable, with K(m) and Vmax values higher for cells grown in 1 M NaCl. 22Na+ uptake showed a diffusion component, also higher for the cells grown with NaCl. Changes depended on growth conditions, and not on further incubation, which changed the internal ion concentration. K+ stimulated proton pumping produced a rapid extrusion of protons, and also a decrease of the membrane potential. Cells grown in 1 M KCl showed a higher fermentation rate, but significantly lower respiratory capacity. ATP levels were higher in cells grown in the presence of NaCl; upon incubation with glucose, those grown in the presence of KCl reached values similar to the ones grown in the presence of NaCl. In both, the addition of KCl produced a transient decrease of the ATP levels. As to ion transport mechanisms, D. hansenii appears to have (a) an ATPase functioning as a proton pump, generating a membrane potential difference which drives K+ through a uniporter; (b) a K+/H+ exchange system; and (c) a rapid cation/cation exchange system. Most interesting is that cells grown in different ionic environments change their studied capacities, which are not dependent on the cation content, but on differences in their genetic expression during growth.
Aldosterone receptor blockade inhibits increased furosemide-sensitive sodium reabsorption in rats with liver cirrhosis.	We examined the role of chronic aldosterone receptor blockade on the altered furosemide-sensitive sodium reabsorption in rats with liver cirrhosis induced by common bile duct ligation. CBL and sham-operated control animals were treated with the aldosterone receptor antagonist canrenoate (20 mg/day i.v.) for 4 weeks. Untreated CBL and sham-CBL served as control groups. The plasma concentration of aldosterone was within the normal range in all groups. Sodium balance studies showed that aldosterone receptor blockade prevented sodium retention in cirrhotic rats. Clearance studies showed that the glomerular filtration rate was unchanged, whereas the renal plasma flow was increased in CBL rats. A test dose of furosemide (7.5 mg/kg b.wt. i.v.) produced significantly greater diuretic (+59%) and natriuretic (+56%) responses in CBL rats than in sham-operated controls. The urinary furosemide excretion rate (UFURV) reflects delivery of furosemide to the thick ascending limb. When the natriuresis was expressed relative to UFURV (i.e., the natriuretic efficiency), we found that natriuretic efficiency of furosemide was significantly increased in untreated CBL rats (+59%). However, the natriuretic efficiency of furosemide was normalized in CBL rats treated with canrenoate. The urinary excretion of furosemide was unchanged in untreated CBL rats, but it was significantly increased in cirrhotic rats treated with canrenoate (+43%). This suggests that in CBL rats, chronic canrenoate treatment increases the renal elimination of furosemide as a consequence of reduced metabolism. These data suggest that chronic aldosterone receptor blockade with canrenoate prevents sodium retention in cirrhotic rats partly by inhibition of increased sodium reabsorption in the thick ascending limb.
Renal excretory responses of taurine-depleted rats to hypotonic and hypertonic saline infusion.	Male Wistar-Kyoto rats were given either tap water (control) or 3% beta-alanine (taurine-depleted) for three weeks. To prepare for the kidney function studies, the animals were then implanted with femoral vessels and bladder catheters. Two days after surgery, each rat was given an intravenous infusion of saline at the rate of 50 microliter/min and urine samples were collected at specific time intervals. An isotonic saline solution (0.9% NaCl) was infused for determination of baseline parameters and was followed by the infusion of a hypotonic saline solution (0.45% NaCl). Two days later, the infusion protocol was repeated in the same animals; however, a hypertonic saline solution (1.8% NaCl) was substituted for the hypotonic saline solution. Renal excretion of fluid and sodium increased in the control, but not taurine-depleted, rats during the hypotonic saline infusion. Interestingly, diuretic and natriuretic responses were similar between the groups during hypertonic saline infusion. The results suggest that taurine-depletion in rats affects renal excretory responses to a hypotonic, but not a hypertonic, saline solution.
