Stoichiometry of the rat kidney Na+-HCO3- cotransporter expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes.	The rat kidney Na+-HCO3- cotransporter (rkNBC) was expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes and transport via rkNBC was studied with the patch-clamp technique in giant inside/out (i/o) or outside/out (o/o) membrane patches. The current/voltage (I/V) relation(s) of individual patches was(were) determined in solutions containing only Na+ and HCO3- as permeable ions. The current carried by rkNBC (INBC) was identified by its response to changing bath Na+ concentration(s) and quantified as the current blocked by 4, 4'-diisothiocyanatostilbene disulfonate (DIDS). The stoichiometric ratio (q) of HCO3- to Na+ transport was determined from zero-current (reversal) potentials. The results and conclusions are as follows. First, DIDS (250 micromol/l) blocks INBC irreversibly from both the extracellular and the intracellular surface. Second, in the presence of Na+ and HCO3- concentration gradients similar to those which rkNBC usually encounters in tubular cells, q was close to 2. The same value was also observed when the HCO3- concentration was 25 mmol/l throughout, but the Na+ concentration was either high (100 mmol/l) or low (10 mmol/l) on the extracellular or intracellular surface of the patch. These data demonstrate that in the oocyte cell membrane rkNBC works with q=2 as previously observed in a study of isolated microperfused tubules (Seki et al., Pflügers Arch 425:409, 1993), however, they do not exclude the possibility that in a different membrane and cytoplasmic environment rkNBC may operate with a different stoichiometry. Third, in most experiments bath application of up to 2 mmol/l ATP increased the DIDS-inhibitable conductance of i/o patches by up to twofold with a half saturation constant near 0.5 mmol/l. This increase was not associated with a change in q, nor with a shift in the I/V relationship which would suggest induction of active transport (pump current). Since the effect persisted after ATP removal and was not observed with the non-hydrolysable ATP analogue AMP-PNP, it is possible that rkNBC is activated by phosphorylation via protein kinases that might adhere to the cytoplasmic surface of the membrane patch.
Basolateral Na(+)/HCO(3)(-) cotransport activity is regulated by the dissociable Na(+)/H(+) exchanger regulatory factor.	In the renal proximal tubule, the activities of the basolateral Na(+)/HCO(3)(-) cotransporter (NBC) and the apical Na(+)/H(+) exchanger (NHE3) uniformly vary in parallel, suggesting that they are coordinately regulated. PKA-mediated inhibition of NHE3 is mediated by a PDZ motif-containing protein, the Na(+)/H(+) exchanger regulatory factor (NHE-RF). Given the common inhibition of these transporters after protein kinase A (PKA) activation, we sought to determine whether NHE-RF also plays a role in PKA-regulated NBC activity. Renal cortex immunoblot analysis using anti-peptide antibodies directed against rabbit NHE-RF demonstrated the presence of this regulatory factor in both brush-border membranes (BBMs) and basolateral membranes (BLMs). Using a reconstitution assay, we found that limited trypsin digestion of detergent solubilized rabbit renal BLM preparations resulted in NBC activity that was unaffected by PKA activation. Co-reconstitution of these trypsinized preparations with a recombinant protein corresponding to wild-type rabbit NHE-RF restored the inhibitory effect of PKA on NBC activity in a concentration-dependent manner. NBC activity was inhibited 60% by 10(-8)M NHE-RF; this effect was not observed in the absence of PKA. Reconstitution with heat-denatured NHE-RF also failed to attenuate NBC activity. To establish further a physiologic role for NHE-RF in NBC regulation, the renal epithelial cell line B-SC-1, which lacks detectable endogenous NHE-RF expression, was engineered to express stably an NHE-RF transgene. NHE-RF-expressing B-SC-1 cells (B-SC-RF) exhibited markedly lower basal levels of NBC activity than did wild-type controls. Inhibition of NBC activity in B-SC-RF cells was enhanced after 10 microM of forskolin treatment, consistent with a postulated role for NHE-RF in mediating the inhibition of NBC activity by PKA. These findings not only suggest NHE-RF involvement in PKA-regulated NBC activity, but also provide a unique molecular mechanism whereby basolateral NBC and apical NHE3 activities may be coordinately regulated in renal proximal tubule cells.
Regulation of the renal Na-HCO3 cotransporter by cAMP and Ca-dependent protein kinases.	Changes in the activity of the brush-border Na-H antiporter are accompanied by parallel changes in the activity of the Na-HCO3 cotransporter. Adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) and calmodulin inhibit the Na-H antiporter, whereas protein kinase C (PKC) stimulates it. We hypothesized that cAMP, calmodulin, and PKC should have similar effects on the Na-HCO3 cotransporter activity. Phosphorylated renal basolateral membranes were treated with either cAMP, calmodulin, or phorbol ester. cAMP, 1 microM, inhibited HCO3-dependent 22Na uptake without affecting 22Na uptake in presence of gluconate, suggesting that cAMP inhibits Na-HCO3 cotransporter activity without altering diffusive 22Na uptake. The effect of cAMP to inhibit the Na-HCO3 cotransporter could also be elicited by the catalytic subunit of cAMP, and this inhibitory effect was prevented by the protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor. Calmodulin (1 microM), in presence of Ca, also inhibited HCO3-dependent 22Na uptake in presence of HCO3, whereas 22Na uptake in the presence of gluconate was unchanged. The inhibitory effect of calmodulin on HCO3-dependent 22Na uptake was prevented by N-(4-aminobutyl)-5-chloro-2-naphthalene sulfonamide (W-13), an inhibitor of calmodulin. Phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate and PKC stimulated Na-HCO3 cotransporter activity, whereas the inactive analogue, 4 alpha-phorbol, failed to elicit such a stimulation. Basolateral membranes displayed cAMP-dependent and Ca-dependent protein kinase activities. Thus PKA and Ca-dependent protein kinases regulate the activity of the Na-HCO3 cotransporter and suggest that hormones that act through these systems modulate the activity of the Na-HCO3 cotransporter.
Plasma membrane H(+)-HCO3- transport in rat hepatocytes: a principal role for Na(+)-coupled HCO3- transport.	Na(+)-coupled HCO3- transport has been demonstrated in the basolateral membrane of hepatocytes, but there is uncertainty regarding its stoichiometry or capacity compared with other mechanisms of H(+)-HCO3- transport. After preincubation in medium free of Na+, either in the presence or absence of HCO3(-)-CO2, rat hepatocytes in primary culture were reexposed to Na+ or HCO3(-)-CO2 alone or in combination. Transporter electrogenicity was assessed by measuring membrane potential difference (PD), and the relative capacities of Na(+)-coupled HCO3- transport, Cl(-)-HCO3- exchange, and Na(+)-H+ exchange were assessed by measuring the magnitude and rate of change of intracellular pH (pHi) using BCECF. In the absence of Na+, exposure to HCO3- alone had no consistent effect on PD or pHi. In the absence of HCO3-, reexposure to Na+ depolarized cells by 3 +/- 1 mV and caused an amiloride-inhibitable increase in pHi of 0.031 +/- 0.02 units/min. In the presence of HCO3-, reexposure to Na+ hyperpolarized cells by -14 +/- 5 mV and increased pHi at a rate of 0.133 +/- 0.11 units/min; both the hyperpolarization and alkalinization were inhibited by SITS but unaffected by amiloride. These changes in PD indicate that Na(+)-coupled HCO3- transport is electrogenic, consistent with coupling of more than one HCO3- to each Na+. Furthermore, SITS-inhibitable Na(+)-dependent alkalinization exceeds amiloride-inhibitable Na(+)-dependent alkalinization by an order of magnitude, suggesting that the transport capacity of Na(+)-coupled HCO3- transport exceeds that of Na(+)-H+ exchange.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Sodium-bicarbonate cotransport in retinal Müller (glial) cells of the salamander.	An electrogenic Na+/HCO3- cotransport system was studied in freshly dissociated Müller cells of the salamander retina. Cotransporter currents were recorded from isolated cells using the whole-cell, voltage-clamp technique following the block of K+ conductance with external Ba2+ and internal Cs+. At constant pHo, an outward current was evoked when extracellular HCO3- concentration was raised by pressure ejecting a HCO3(-)-buffered solution onto the surface of cells bathed in nominally HCO3(-)-free solution. The HCO3(-)-evoked outward current was reduced to 4.4% of control by 0.5 mM DIDS (4,4'-diisothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'-disulfonate), to 28.8% of control by 2 mM DNDS (4,4'-dinitrostilbene-2,2'-disulfonate), and to 28.4% of control by 2 mM harmaline. Substitution of choline for Na+ in bath and ejection solutions reduced the response to 1.3% of control. Bicarbonate-evoked currents of normal magnitude were recorded when methane sulfonate was substituted for Cl- in bath, ejection, and intracellular solutions. Similarly, an outward current was evoked when extracellular Na+ concentration was raised in the presence of HCO3-. The Na(+)-evoked response was reduced to 16.2% of control by 2 mM DNDS and was abolished by removal of HCO3- from bath and ejection solutions. Taken together, these results (block by stilbenes and harmaline, HCO3- and Na+ dependence, Cl- independence) indicate that salamander Müller cells possess an electrogenic Na+/HCO3- cotransport system. Na+/HCO3- cotransporter sites were localized primarily at the endfoot region of Müller cells. Ejection of HCO3- onto the endfoot evoked outward currents 10 times larger than currents evoked by ejections onto the opposite (distal) end of the cell. The reversal potential of the cotransporter was determined by DNDS block of cotransport current. In the absence of a transmembrane HCO3- gradient, the reversal potential varied systematically as a function of the transmembrane Na+ gradient. The reversal potential was -0.1 mV for a [Na+]o:[Na+]i ratio of 1:1 and -25.2 mV for a Na+ gradient ratio of 7.4:1. Based on these values, the estimated stoichiometry of the cotransporter was 2.80 +/- 0.13:1 (HCO3-:Na+). Possible functions of the glial cell Na+/HCO3- cotransporter, including the regulation of CO2 in the retina and the regulation of cerebral blood flow, are discussed.
Polarized distribution of Na+/H+ antiport and Na+/HCO3- cotransport in primary cultures of renal inner medullary collecting duct cells.	Primary cultures of rat renal inner medullary collecting duct cells were grown to confluence on glass coverslips and treated permeant supports, and the pH-sensitive fluorescent probe 2,7-biscarboxyethyl-5,6-carboxyfluorescein was employed to delineate the nature of the transport pathways that allowed for recovery from an imposed acid load in a HCO3-/CO2-buffered solution. The H+ efflux rate of acid-loaded cells was 13.44 +/- 0.94 mM/min. Addition of amiloride, 10(-4) M, to the recovery solution reduced the H+ efflux rate to 4.06 +/- 0.63 mM/min. The amiloride-resistant pHi recovery mechanism displayed an absolute requirement for Na+ but was Cl(-)-independent. Studies performed on permeable supports demonstrated that the latter pathway was located primarily on the basolateral-equivalent (BE) cell surface and was inhibited by 50 microM 4,4'-diisothiocyanostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid (DIDS). In a Na(+)-replete solution containing DIDS (50 microM) and amiloride (10(-4) M), acid-loaded cells failed to return to basal pHi. To delineate further the amiloride-inhibitable component of pHi recovery, monolayers were studied in the nominal absence of HCO3-/CO2. In 70% of monolayers studied, Na(+)-dependent, amiloride-inhibitable H+ efflux was the sole mechanism whereby acid-loaded cells returned to basal pHi. A Na(+)-independent pathway was observed in 30% of monolayers examined and represented only a minor component of the pHi recovery process. In studies performed on permeable supports, the Na(+)-dependent amiloride-inhibitable pathway was found to be confined exclusively to the BE cell surface. In summary, confluent monolayers of rat renal inner medullary collecting duct cells in primary culture possess two major mechanisms that contribute toward recovery from an imposed acid load, namely, Na+/H+ antiport and Na+/HCO3- cotransport. Na(+)-independent pHi recovery mechanisms represent a minor component of the pHi recovery process in the cultured cell. Both the Na+/H+ antiporter and Na+/HCO3- cotransporter are located primarily on the BE cell surface.
Cl-HCO3 exchange and Na-HCO3 symport in rabbit outer medullary collecting duct cells.	The mechanisms of basolateral HCO3- (or related base) transport were examined in the outer stripe of the outer medullary collecting duct (OMCDo). Rabbit OMCDo were perfused in vitro and cell pH (pHi) of principal cells (PC) and intercalated cells (IC) was monitored with 2',7'-bis(carboxyethyl)-5(6)-carboxyfluorescein (BCECF) using fluorescence ratio imaging microscopy. Basolateral HCO3- exit was stimulated either by bath HCO3- reduction or by NH3/NH4(+)-induced cell alkalinization. Rates of pHi decrease were twice as high in IC than in PC. In both cell types HCO3- exit was dependent on Cl(-)-coupled and Na(+)-coupled mechanisms; the former was dominant in IC, whereas the latter was dominant in PC. pHi of PC and IC significantly increased by bath Cl- removal in the absence of Na+ and decreased by bath Na+ removal in the absence of Cl- but with amiloride. 4,4'-Diisothiocyanostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid (DIDS) inhibited these pHi responses to a reduction of bath HCO3-, Cl-, or Na+, and an alkali loading. Our results suggest that 1) the capacity for basolateral HCO3- transport is twice as high in IC than in PC, 2) both PC and IC possess basolateral Na(+)-independent Cl(-)-HCO3- exchange and Na(+)-HCO3- cotransport, and 3) basolateral HCO3- transport is mediated mainly by Na(+)-HCO3- cotransport in PC and by Na(+)-independent Cl(-)-HCO3- exchange in IC.
Basolateral membrane H/OH/HCO3 transport in the rat cortical thick ascending limb. Evidence for an electrogenic Na/HCO3 cotransporter in parallel with a Na/H antiporter.	Mechanisms involved in basolateral H/OH/HCO3 transport in the in vitro microperfused rat cortical thick ascending limb were examined by the microfluorometric determination of cell pH using (2',7')-bis-(carboxyethyl)-(5,6)-carboxyfluorescein. The mean cell pH in this segment perfused with 147 mM sodium and 25 mM HCO3 at pH 7.4 was 7.13 +/- 0.02 (n = 30). Lowering bath HCO3 from 25 to 5 mM (constant PCO2 of 40 mmHg) acidified the cells by 0.31 +/- 0.02 pH units at a rate of 0.56 +/- 0.08 pH units/min. Removal of bath sodium acidified the cells by 0.28 +/- 0.03 pH units at a rate of 0.33 +/- 0.04 pH units/min. The cell acidification was stilbene inhibitable and independent of chloride. There was no effect of bath sodium removal on cell pH in the absence of CO2/HCO3. Depolarization of the basolateral membrane (step increase in bath potassium) independent of the presence of chloride. Cell acidification induced by bath sodium removal persisted when the basolateral membrane was voltage clamped by high potassium/valinomycin. Although these results are consistent with a Na/(HCO3)n greater than 1 cotransporter, a Na/H antiporter was also suggested: 1 mM bath amiloride inhibited the cell pH defense against an acid load (rapid ammonia washout), both in the presence and absence of CO2/HCO3, and inhibited the cell acidification induced by bath sodium reduction from 50 to 0 mM. In conclusion, an electrogenic Na/(HCO3)n greater than 1 cotransporter in parallel with a Na/H antiporter exist on the basolateral membrane of the rat cortical thick ascending limb.
Modification of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) production by the Na(+)-dependent HCO3- cotransport in lipopolysaccharide-activated human monocytes.	Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) is produced and secreted from monocytes in response to activation with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). The role of Na+ and HCO3- in the production of TNF-alpha by monocytes was investigated; it was observed that replacement of Na+ in the culture medium with sucrose or choline chloride inhibited TNF-alpha production completely. The addition of Na+ to Na(+)-free culture medium restored TNF-alpha production with an EC50 value of 35 mmol/l. The amiloride analog 5-(N-ethyl-N-isopropyl)amiloride (EIPA), an inhibitor of the Na+/H+ antiporter, inhibited TNF-alpha production with an EC50 of 3.3 microM. Without HCO3- in the culture medium TNF-alpha production was inhibited by 92%. Total protein synthesis was inhibited by 85% in the absence of Na+ but did not change in the absence of bicarbonate in the culture medium. Intracellular pH (pHi) which increased from 6.90 in control monocyte to 7.40 in response to activation with LPS was abrogated to pHi of 6.95 in the absence of Na+ but did not change in the absence of HCO3- in the culture medium. In the presence of 100 microM phloretin or DIDS the pHi of activated monocyte was reduced to control value, TNF-alpha production was inhibited completely and total protein synthesis was inhibited by 61%. These data suggest that (1) TNF-alpha production, as other proteins, is dependent on the pHi of monocytes,and (2) TNF-alpha production, in contrast to total protein, is modulated by Na(+)-dependent HCO3-.
Evidence for electrogenic sodium-bicarbonate cotransport in cultured rat cerebellar astrocytes.	We have studied the regulation of intracellular pH (pHi), and HCO3(-)-dependent membrane currents in cultured astrocytes from neonatal rat cerebellum, using the fluorescent pH-sensitive dye 2,7'-bis(carboxyethyl)-5,6-carboxyfluorescein (BCECF) and the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. The steady-state pHi was 6.96 in both nominally CO2/HCO3(-)-free, HEPES-buffered saline (6.96 +/- 0.14; n = 48) and in a saline containing 5% CO2/24 mM HCO3- (6.96 +/- 0.18; n = 48) (at pH 7.4). Inhibition of the Na+/H+ exchange by amiloride (2 mM) caused a significant decrease of pHi in nominally CO2/HCO3(-)-free saline. Addition of CO2/HCO3- in the continuous presence of amiloride induced a large and fast intracellular alkalinization. Removal of external Na+ also caused a fall of pHi, and addition of CO2/HCO3- in Na(+)-free saline evoked a further fall of pHi, while the outward current was reduced or even reversed. The stilbene 4,4'-diisothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'-disulphonic acid (DIDS, 0.3 mM) reduced the pHi recovery from the CO2/HCO3(-)-evoked acidification, and blocked the prominent intracellular acidification upon removal of CO2/HCO3-. Removal of external Cl- had little effect on these pHi changes. Lowering the external pH from 7.4 to 6.6 in CO2/HCO3(-)-containing saline produced a large and rapid intracellular acidification and inward current, which were both greatly reduced by DIDS and in the absence of CO2/HCO3-. The results suggest that the CO2/HCO3(-)-dependent current is partly due to a reversible bidirectional, electrogenic Na(+)-HCO3- cotransporter, which helps to regulate pHi in these cells. In addition, a prominent Na+/H+ exchanger contributes to extrude acid equivalents from these astrocytes to maintain the steady-state pHi.
Duodenal bicarbonate secretion and mucosal protection. Neurohumoral influence and transport mechanisms.	Duodenal mucosal bicarbonate secretion (DMBS) plays an important role in the defence against acid discharged from the stomach. The secretion by duodenum immediately distal to the Brunner's glands area and devoid of pancreatic and biliary secretions, was investigated in vivo in anaesthetized Sprague-Dawley rats and in vitro in mucosae isolated from the American bullfrog. Transport mechanisms were studied in isolated rat duodenal enterocytes and identified by use of digitized microfluorometry and the fluoroprobe BCECF. Cyclic AMP production in enterocytes of villus vs. crypt origin was measured with radioimmunoassay. The benzodiazepines diazepam and Ro 15-1788 stimulated DMBS in the rat when administered intravenously or intracerebroventricularly; however, their stimulatory effect was abolished by bilateral proximal vagotomy, and they had no effect on the secretion by isolated bullfrog mucosa. It is concluded that these benzodiazepines stimulate secretion by acting upon the central nervous system and that their effects are vagally mediated. Dopamine, the catechol-O-methyl-transferase-inhibitor nitecapone, and the dopamine D1 agonist SKF-38393 all stimulated DMBS. The peripherally acting antagonist domperidone while having no influence on basal DMBS did prevent the influences of SKF-38393 and nitecapone. The alpha 1-antagonist prazosin had no such effects and the combined results suggest that DMBS is stimulated via peripheral dopamine D1 receptors. Intravenous, but not central nervous, administration of the muscarinic M1 receptor antagonists pirenzepine and telenzepine effectively stimulated DMBS; however their effectiveness was dependent on intact vagal nerves. Phentolamine, an unselective alpha-adrenergic antagonist, prevented the stimulation by pirenzepine and telenzepine and stimulation by carbachol was abolished by hexamethonium. It is concluded that peripheral nicotinergic and muscarinergic M1 receptors mediate stimulation of DMBS, in part by acting upon peripheral sympathetic ganglia. Whereas dopamine and SKF-38393 caused a time-dependent increase in the accumulation of cyclic AMP in duodenal enterocytes of crypt and villous origin, the D2 agonist quinpirole had an inhibitive influence. Crypt and villus cells differed in their respective time-courses in response to vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. Finally, Cl-/HCO3- exchange, Na+/H+ exchange and NaHCO3 cotransport were identified as membrane acid/base transport mechanisms in isolated duodenal enterocytes.
Effects of extracellular pH on intracellular pH-regulation and growth in a human colon carcinoma cell-line.	Mechanisms of intracellular pH (pHi) regulation seem to be involved in cellular growth and cell division. Little is known about how extracellular acidosis, known to occur in central regions of solid tumors, or alkaline conditions affect pHi regulation in colonic tumors. pHi changes in the colonic adenocarcinoma cell-line SW-620 were recorded by spectrofluorimetric monitoring of the pH-sensitive, fluorescent dye BCECF, and proliferative activity was assessed by [3H]thymidine uptake. Resting pHi in Hepes-buffered solution was 7.53 +/- 0.01 (n = 36). Both 1 mM amiloride and Na(+)-free solution inhibited pHi recovery from acidification and decreased pHi in resting cells. In HCO3-/CO2-buffered media resting pH1 was 7.42 +/- 0.01 (n = 36). Recovery from acidification was Na(+)-dependent, CI(-)-independent, and only partially blocked by 1 mM amiloride. In the presence of amiloride and 200 microM H2DIDS pHi recovery was completely inhibited. In Na(+)-free solution pHi decreased from 7.44 +/- 0.04 to 7.29 +/- 0.03 (n = 6) and no alkalinization was observed in CI(-)-free medium. Addition of 5 microM tributyltin bromide (an anion/OH-exchange ionophore) caused pHi to decrease from 7.43 +/- 0.05 to 7.17 +/- 0.08 (n = 5). The effects of pH0 on steady-state pHi, pHi recovery from acidification and proliferative activity after 48 h were investigated by changing buffer [CO2] and [HCO3-]. In general, increases in pH0 between 6.7 and 7.4 increased pHi recovery, steady-state pHi and growth rates. In summary, SW-620 cells have a resting pHi > 7.4 at 25 degrees C, which is higher than other intestinal cells. Acid extrusion in physiological bicarbonate media is accomplished by a pHi-sensitive Na+/H+ exchanger and a pHi-insensitive Na(+)-HCO3-cotransporter, both of which are operational in control cells at the resting pHi. No evidence for activity of a CI-/HCO3- exchanger was found in these cells, which could account for the high pHi observed and may explain why the cells continue to grow in acidic tumor environments.
