Long-term myocardial preservation: effects of hyperkalemia, sodium channel, and Na/K/2Cl cotransport inhibition on extracellular potassium accumulation during hypothermic storage.	We previously demonstrated improved myocardial preservation with polarized (tetrodotoxin-induced), compared with depolarized (hyperkalemia-induced), arrest and hypothermic storage. This study was undertaken to determine whether polarized arrest reduced ionic imbalance during ischemic storage and whether this was influenced by Na+/K +/2Cl- cotransport inhibition.
Morphine decreases the voltage sensitivity of the slow sodium channels]	Morphine was shown to decrease in a dose-dependent manner the effective charge transfer in tetrodotoxin-resistant (TTXr) sodium channel activation system in short-term cultured dorsal root ganglion cells. Morphine seems to interact with opioid receptors because of total block of the binding by naloxone and naltrexone. Neither activating, nor inhibiting G-protein agents exerted any effect on this process. The morphine signal was blocked by extracellular application of 2 x 10(-4) M ouabain. The findings suggest existence of sodium signalling pathway involving receptors, Na+, K(+)-ATPase and the TTXr sodium channels.
The Na,K pump regulates decreases in the cholinosensitivity of neurons in the common snail to a cellular analog of habituation: the role of cellular calcium.	The effects of the Na,K pump inhibitor ouabain on the depth of depression of cholinosensitivity of defensive behavior command neurons LPa2, LPa3, RPa3, and RPa2 were studied in the common snail using a cellular analog of habituation; the role of intracellular Ca2+ in these effects was analyzed. Integral acetylcholine-evoked transmembrane currents (ACh currents) were recorded by two-electrode membrane voltage clamping. In one group of neurons, extracellular application of ouabain (0.1 mM) by addition to the bathing solution evoked increases in the depression of the ACh current evoked by rhythmic application of mediator (with interstimulus intervals of 1-3 min) while neurons of the other groups responded with decreases in depression. After spontaneous diffusion of the Ca2+ ion chelator BAPTA (1 mM) from the intracellular microelectrode for 60-150 min, ouabain only increased the level of depression of the ACh current. After intracellular injection of CaCl2 (100 mM), ouabain only decreased the level of depression of the ACh current. It was concluded that inhibition of the Na,K pump modifies depression of the cholinosensitivity of neurons in the cellular model of habituation. The direction of the effect depends on the basal concentration of intracellular Ca2+.
The mechanism underlying the laxative properties of parsley extract.	Parsley has been claimed in folk medicine to possess laxative properties attributed to the presence therein of some volatile oils that are more concentrated in seeds than in stems or leaves. The advocated physiological effect of parsley, does not have, however, any proven scientific background and relies mainly on simple observations and empirical information. This work aims at providing the scientific evidence that would confirm or reject the claimed laxative role of parsley, and at determining its mechanism of action if present. A perfusion technique was used to measure the net fluid absorption from the rat colon. The addition of an aqueous extract of parsley seeds to the perfusion buffer, and the omission of sodium, both reduced significantly net water absorption from the colon, as compared to the control. Parsley, added to a sodium-free buffer did not lead to any further significant change in water absorption as compared to parsley alone inferring that with parsley sodium absorption was already inhibited. Since K+ and Cl- secretion depends on the activity of the NaKCl2 transporter, the latter was inhibited with furosemide which increased significantly net water absorption. When parsley and furosemide were added together, net water absorption was significantly higher than with parsley alone and significantly lower than with furosemide alone. In addition, parsley extract was shown to inhibit the in vitro activity of the Na+-K+ATPase in a colon homogenate and the activity of a partially purified dog kidney ATPase. The results suggest that parsley acts by, inhibiting sodium and consequently water absorption through an inhibition of the Na+-K+ pump, and by stimulating the NaKCl, transporter and increasing electrolyte and water secretion.
Regulation of urine reprocessing in the maintenance of sodium and water balance in the terrestrial Christmas Island red crab Gecarcoidea natalis investigated under field conditions.	Land crabs produce isosmotic urine but reduce salt loss by reabsorbing salt via the gills to produce a dilute excretory fluid (P). This branchial salt reclamation is regulated in response to changes in dietary salt availability. The regulation of branchial Na reabsorption and osmotic status was investigated in the terrestrial crab Gecarcoidea natalis on Christmas Island. Confinement within field enclosures had no general effect on salt and water balance compared with crabs free in the rainforest but there were seasonal effects. Extracellular fluid volume was 27.9% body mass during the wet season but only 22.7% in the dry season. Urine production was 53 ml kg(-1) day(-1) in the dry season but 111 ml kg(-1) day(-1) in the wet season, while water flux rates were 140 ml kg(-1) day(-1) and 280 ml kg(-1) day(-1), respectively. Serotonin but not dopamine increased urine production by at least 16% but only during the dry season when rates were seasonally lowered. Crabs acclimated to drinking 50% seawater increased haemolymph osmotic pressure and downregulated branchial reabsorption of salt. Net Na flux (J(net)) and unidirectional Na influx (J(in)) were investigated in branchial perfusion experiments. In red crabs acclimated to drinking freshwater, J(in), J(net) and the activity of the Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase were increased by serotonin, indicating that the increase of sodium absorption was due to a stimulation of the ATPase. Red crabs drinking 50% seawater reduced J(net) primarily due to increased passive loss (J(out)), since both J(in) and Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase were unchanged. Serotonin and dopamine abolished the increased diffusive loss and re-established J(net) with no change in J(in). G. natalis exhibits different regulatory systems. Branchial salt uptake can be adjusted via the leak component when adequate salt is available but also by stimulated active uptake under diluting conditions. The gills are important sites of ion pumping in euryhaline aquatic crabs, and the upregulation of J(net) in red crabs is reminiscent of that in marine crabs. Serotonergic stimulation of branchial uptake, independent of cAMP, and hormonally modulated ion leakage are presently unique to terrestrial species.
Barium- or quinine-induced depolarization activates K+, Na+ and cationic conductances in frog proximal tubular cells.	1. Frog proximal tubular cells were fused into giant cells. We measured membrane potential (Vm), its changes (delta Vm), and current-induced voltage changes (delta psi) in single cells, during control and experimental states. Each cell served as its own control. 2. In the presence of a physiological Ringer solution, the transference number for potassium (tK) was 0.50. Barium (3 mM) reduced membrane conductance (Gm) by 50%; low-Cl- solutions and low-Na+ solutions also diminished Gm, by 52 and 30%, respectively. The association of barium and low-NaCl solutions decreased Gm to approximately 38% of control, indicating that the impermeant substitute of a physiological ion may interact with other pathways; alternatively, blockade of steady-state conductances may activate physiologically silent processes. 3. In an attempt to enhance the contribution of the partial K+ conductance (GK) to Gm, fused cells were exposed to low-Cl- solutions, containing in addition 0.1 mM-methazolamide, to inhibit the rheogenic Na(+)-HCO3-symport, and 1 microM-amiloride, to block Na+ conductance (GNa). tK went up to 0.83. 4. The high tK preparation was challenged with barium (3 mM) or quinine (Quin, 1 mM). These blockers produced large depolarizations (approximately 60 mV), however, although Gm decreased along early- and mid-depolarization, Gm plateaued and eventually it increased with larger and larger depolarization. 5. Depolarization-associated increase in Gm reflects activation of other conductances. These are Na+, cationic, and K+ conductance(s) poorly sensitive to quinine or barium. In the presence of Ba(2+)- or Quin-induced depolarization, injection of depolarizing current produces delayed increase in conductance. 6. Depolarization-induced activation of cationic conductance (Gcat) and GNa results in enlargement of the K+ electrochemical potential difference, to about 70 mV; this difference allows recycling of K+ ions outwards, since a GK is still detected and may contribute up to 38% of the total conductance.
cAMP activates the sodium pump in cultured cells of the elasmobranch rectal gland.	The inorganic ion content of rectal gland cells cultured from Squalus acanthias was studied by electron probe analysis in order to determine the effect of stimulation by cAMP. Cell sodium was reduced by 30% (P less than 0.01) at 8 min after exposure to dibutyryl cAMP and theophylline and remained low at 25 and 33 min. Chloride content also fell significantly with stimulation. Although cAMP may activate several transport sites, the results are consistent with a direct effect of stimulation to increase the activity of the sodium pump in shark rectal gland.
The ouabain-dependent Na(+)-K+ pump and the brain renin-angiotensin system.	The present study investigated the role of ouabain-dependent inhibition of the Na(+)-K+ pump and stimulation of the brain renin-angiotensin system by looking at 1) the short-term and long-term effects of ouabain on arterial blood pressure, and 2) the acute and chronic effects of angiotensin II (ANG II) intraventricularly (i.c.v.) on the release of an endogenous inhibitor of the Na(+)-K+ pump. Ouabain infused subcutaneously in a dose of 1.5 mg.kg-1. 24 h-1 for 7 days did not affect arterial blood pressure in rats, whereas increases in both blood pressure and weight were observed in rats infused with ouabain at the same dose for a 4-week period. Plasma supernate obtained from pentobarbital-anesthetized dogs acutely treated with ANG II (1 microgram i.c.v. every 30 min for 2 h) induced a 44% decrease in the ouabain-sensitive 86Rb uptake by the rat tail artery which was prevented by pretreatment with saralasin i.c.v. Plasma supernate obtained from dogs that were infused for 4 days with ANG II (20 ng/min i.c.v.) and received saline as the drinking fluid also reduced by 34% the ouabain-sensitive 86Rb uptake by the rat tail artery. The present study provides evidence that chronic inhibition of the Na(+)-K+ pump for 4 weeks leads to the development of hypertension and that the release of an endogenous inhibitor of the Na(+)-K+ pump is implicated in the hypertension resulting from chronic stimulation of the brain angiotensin-system and an increase in sodium chloride intake.
The influence of protein tyrosine phosphatase-1B on Na,K-ATPase activity in lens.	The abnormal sodium content of many cataracts suggests Na,K-ATPase is vital for maintenance of eye lens transparency. Since tyrosine phosphorylation is considered a possible regulatory mechanism for Na,K-ATPase, experiments were conducted to test the influence of protein tyrosine phosphatase-1B (PTP-1B) on Na,K-ATPase activity. Membrane material was isolated separately from porcine lens epithelium and fiber cells. Tyrosine phosphoproteins, Na,K-ATPase alpha1 polypeptide and PTP-1B were examined by Western blot. Na,K-ATPase activity was determined by measuring ATP hydrolysis in the presence or absence of ouabain. Western blot analysis revealed tyrosine phosphorylation of multiple membrane proteins in both lens cell types, the differentiated fiber cells and non-differentiated epithelium. When membrane material was subjected to immunoprecipitation using an antibody directed against Na,K-ATPase alpha1, a colocalized phosphotyrosine band was detected in lens fibers but not epithelium. Incubation with PTP-1B caused a approximately 50% increase of Na,K-ATPase activity in fiber membrane material. Na,K-ATPase activity in lens epithelium membrane material was not significantly altered by PTP-1B treatment even though PTP-1B was demonstrated to cause dephosphorylation of multiple membrane proteins in the epithelium as well as fibers. While endogenous PTP-1B was detected in both cell types, endogenous tyrosine phosphatase activity was low in both epithelium and fiber membrane material. The results illustrate endogenous tyrosine phosphorylation of Na,K-ATPase alpha1 polypeptide in fibers. Na,K-ATPase alpha1 in lens fibers may be a potential target for PTP-1B.
Oleic acid inhibits alveolar fluid reabsorption: a role in acute respiratory distress syndrome?	Levels of oleic acid (OA) are elevated in plasma and bronchoalveolar lavage fluids of patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). OA is also widely used to provoke edema, by unknown mechanisms, in experimental models of ARDS. We investigated the impact of intravascularly applied OA on epithelial lining fluid balance. OA (25 microM) dramatically blocked active transepithelial (22)Na(+) transport (by 92%) in an isolated, ventilated, and perfused rabbit lung model, provoking alveolar edema, assessed by increases in lung weight and epithelial lining fluid volume. OA did not alter epithelial permeability, measured by [(3)H]mannitol and fluorescently labeled albumin flux, but did increase endothelial permeability, assessed by capillary filtration coefficient. In A549 cells, OA completely blocked amiloride-sensitive sodium currents measured by patch clamp, and also largely abrogated ouabain-sensitive Na(+),K(+)-ATPase-mediated (86)Rb(+) uptake. Although OA did not alter epithelial sodium channel or Na(+),K(+)-ATPase surface expression, it covalently associated with both molecules and directly, dramatically, and dose-dependently inhibited the catalytic activity of purified Na(+),K(+)-ATPase. Therefore, OA impaired the two essential transepithelial active sodium transport mechanisms of the lung, and could thus promote alveolar edema formation and prevent edema resolution, thereby contributing to the development of ARDS.
Lactate and force production in skeletal muscle.	Lactic acid accumulation is generally believed to be involved in muscle fatigue. However, one study reported that in rat soleus muscle (in vitro), with force depressed by high external K(+) concentrations a subsequent incubation with lactic acid restores force and thereby protects against fatigue. However, incubation with 20 mm lactic acid reduces the pH gradient across the sarcolemma, whereas the gradient is increased during muscle activity. Furthermore, unlike active muscle the Na(+)-K(+) pump is not activated. We therefore hypothesized that lactic acid does not protect against fatigue in active muscle. Three incubation solutions were used: 20 mM Na-lactate (which acidifies internal pH), 12 mM Na-lactate +8 mm lactic acid (which mimics the pH changes during muscle activity), and 20 mM lactic acid (which acidifies external pH more than internal pH). All three solutions improved force in K(+)-depressed rat soleus muscle. The pH regulation associated with lactate incubation accelerated the Na(+)-K(+) pump. To study whether the protective effect of lactate/lactic acid is a general mechanism, we stimulated muscles to fatigue with and without pre-incubation. None of the incubation solutions improved force development in repetitively stimulated muscle (Na-lactate had a negative effect). It is concluded that although lactate/lactic acid incubation regains force in K(+)-depressed resting muscle, a similar incubation has no or a negative effect on force development in active muscle. It is suggested that the difference between the two situations is that lactate/lactic acid removes the negative consequences of an unusual large depolarization in the K(+)-treated passive muscle, whereas the depolarization is less pronounced in active muscle.
Impairment of sodium pump and Na/H exchanger in erythrocytes from non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus patients: effect of tea catechins.	Tea catechins (EGCG, EGC, ECG and EC) possess many important biological properties. We evaluated the effect of tea catechins on erythrocyte membrane Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase and sodium/hydrogen exchanger (NHE) activity in normal (control) and NIDDM subjects.
Hyperammonaemia reduces intracellular 22Na (sodium) ion and extracellular 86Rb ion concentrations in the blood-brain barrier of the rat.	Ammonia may be the major cerebral intoxicant responsible for the increased general or passive permeability of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) leading to the cerebral edema associated with acute liver failure. The present study investigated the effects of ammonia, as NH4+, on Na+ (22Na), K+ (86Rb), and 14C-mannitol uptake in the BBB. An in situ isolated perfused rat brain preparation was used to study the action of 1 mM ammonium acetate in Krebs'-Ringer perfusate. Passive water transport in the brain was studied by 14C-labeled mannitol uptake, a usually nondiffusible marker and active water transport by 22Na and 86Rb uptake. NH4+ significantly reduced 14C-mannitol uptake into the choroid plexus (P < 0.001) and increased it in the CSF (P < 0.05). Decreased 86Rb was measured in whole brain (P < 0.01) and CSF. However, no effect was observed in brain parenchyma, endothelium or choroid plexus thereby suggesting an increased efflux of 86Rb to the interstitial fluid. NH+ increased Na+ uptake into all areas of the brain studied. NH4+ does not increase the passive permeability into the BBB and was decreased in the choroid plexus. The increased 22Na+ uptake was substantiated by the observed decreases in 86Rb uptake in whole brain and CSF. This suggested NH4+ stimulates the Na+/K+ pump and increases extracellular Na+ concentrations and possibly intracellular concentrations with a concomitant decrease in K+ concentrations. These observations may provide a basis for the explanation of NH+ toxicity during hepatic encephalopathy and liver failure-induced cerebral edema.
The protective effect of L-cysteine and glutathione on the adult and aged rat brain (Na+,K+)-ATPase and Mg2+-ATPase activities in galactosemia in vitro.	The aim of this study was to evaluate whether the addition of the antioxidants L-cysteine (Cys) or the reduced glutathione (GSH) could reverse the alterations of brain total antioxidant status (TAS) and the modulated activities of the enzymes (Na+,K+)-ATPase, and Mg2+-ATPase in adult or aged rat brain homogenates induced by galactosemia in vitro. Mixture A [mix. A: galactose-1-phosphate (Gal-1-P, 2 mM) plus galactitol (Galtol, 2 mM) plus galactose (Gal, 4 mM) = classical galactosemia] or mixture B [mix. B: Galtol (2 mM) plus Gal (1 mM) = galactokinase deficiency galactosemia] were preincubated in the presence or absence of Cys (0.83 mM) or GSH (0.83 mM) with adult or aged brain homogenates at 37 degrees C for 1 h. TAS and the enzyme activities were determined spectrophotometrically. Mix. A or mix. B preincubation with the adult brain resulted in a significant (Na+,K+)-ATPase inhibition (-30%) and a Mg2+-ATPase stimulation (+300% and +33%, respectively), whereas lower modifications of the enzyme activities (p < 0.001) were found in the aged brain. Gal mixtures decreased TAS by 40% (p < 0.001) and by 20% (p < 0.01) in adult and aged samples, respectively. The antioxidants significantly increased TAS resulting in the reversion of (Na+,K+)-ATPase inhibition and Mg2+-ATPase stimulation by mix. B only. The inhibitory effect of Gal and its derivatives on brain (Na+,K+)-ATPase and their stimulatory effect on Mg2+-ATPase are being decreased with age, probably due to the producion of free radicals. Cys and GSH increased TAS resulting in a reversion of the inhibited (Na+,K+)-ATPase in both models of the in vitro galactosemia and the stimulated Mg2+-ATPase in galactokinase deficiency galactosemia only.
Effect of partial Na pump and Na-H exchange inhibition on [Ca]i during acidosis in cardiac cells.	This study investigated the effects of partial Na pump inhibition and Na-H exchange inhibition on contractile function, intracellular pH (pHi), and intracellular Ca concentration ([Ca]i) during intracellular acidosis, using the fluorescent dyes 2',7'-bis(carboxyethyl)-5,6-carboxyfluorescein and fura-2 in isolated cardiac cells of adult rabbits. Intracellular acidosis with normal extracellular pH was induced by an NH4Cl (10 mM) prepulse technique. A nontoxic concentration (0.5 microM) of ouabain was used to inhibit the Na pump. 5-(N-ethyl-N-isopropyl)amiloride (EIPA) was used to inhibit Na-H exchange. In both the absence and presence of ouabain, pHi fell transiently and then recovered after removal of NH4Cl. Ouabain did not alter the pHi changes observed after removal of NH4Cl. Diastolic and systolic [Ca]i increased during acidosis after NH4Cl removal. In the presence of ouabain, the increase in [Ca]i during acidosis was greater than that in the absence of this drug. Ouabain enhanced the recovery of contractile function during acidosis. In both the absence and presence of ouabain, Na-H exchange inhibition by EIPA reduced the recovery of pHi and mechanical function and the increase in [Ca]i, which were normally observed after NH4Cl removal. These data suggest that in adult rabbit myocytes the Na pump inhibition enhances the increase in [Ca]i during acidosis, and the Na-H exchange inhibition reduces it. The [Ca]i increase during acidosis may be in part due to the altered Na-Ca exchange, which in turn results from the increased Na-H exchange.
Effects of magnesium and terbutaline on contractility and K+ uptake in isolated human uterine muscle.	Mg++ (3 and 6 mmol/L), the beta 2-adrenergic agonist terbutaline (1 and 10 mumol/L), and dibutyryl cyclic adenosine 5'-monophosphate (0.1 and 1 mmol/L) suppressed spontaneous activity and the increase in contractile activity induced by ouabain or K(+)-free buffer in isolated human pregnant myometrium. The ouabain-suppressible rubidium 86 or potassium 42 uptake was unaffected by the presence of Mg++ (3 and 6 mmol/L), the beta 2-adrenergic agonist terbutaline (1 and 10 mumol/L), or dibutyryl cyclic adenosine 5'-monophosphate (1 mmol/L). However, loading of the strips with Na+ and incubation in high K+ induced a fivefold increase in rubidium 86 uptake. On the basis of these flux rates, our previous data on the total concentration of sodium-potassium pumps in the human myometrium, and an estimated maximum transport rate of the sodium-potassium pump of 8900 K+ ions per minute at 30 degrees C, it could be calculated that the sodium-potassium pump in the Na(+)-loaded strips reached around 80% of its maximal rate. Taken together, these results showed that the relaxant effects of Mg++, terbutaline, and dibutyryl cyclic adenosine 5'-monophosphate on human myometrium are not due to a stimulation of active sodium-potassium transport.
Chronic daily administration of ethyl docosahexaenoate protects against gerbil brain ischemic damage through reduction of arachidonic acid liberation and accumulation.	Recently, we reported that dietary ethyl docosahexaenoate (Et-DHA) intake decreases the level of membrane arachidonic acid (AA), which reduces the generation of AA metabolites in ischemic gerbil brain. As an extended study, we further investigated the influence of the chronic administration of Et-DHA on free AA levels after ischemia. In addition, Na,K-ATPase activity, cation content, cerebral edema and brain damage were also evaluated. Weanling male gerbils were orally pretreated with either Et-DHA (200 mg/kg) or vehicle, once a day for 10 weeks, and subjected to transient forebrain ischemia by bilateral common carotid occlusion for 30 min. Time-course analyses revealed that pretreatment with Et-DHA, compared with pretreatment with the vehicle, significantly decreased the brain's free AA levels during ischemia (5, 15 and 30 min) and after reperfusion (5, 10, 15 and 30 min), and attenuated the decline of Na,K-ATPase activity at examined time points. Pretreatment with Et-DHA significantly prevented an increase in Na(+) concentration and a decrease in K(+) concentration after 24 h of reperfusion, which resulted in lower cerebral water content. Reduced brain infarct volume and low animal mortality were also observed in Et-DHA-treated animals. These data suggest that the reduction of ischemia-induced AA liberation and accumulation by Et-DHA pretreatment may be attributable to (a) protection against the decline of Na,K-ATPase activity, (b) postischemic cerebral edema and brain damage and (c) animal mortality.
Vasopressin: mechanisms of action on the vasculature in health and in septic shock.	Vasopressin is essential for cardiovascular homeostasis, acting via the kidney to regulate water resorption, on the vasculature to regulate smooth muscle tone, and as a central neurotransmitter, modulating brainstem autonomic function. Although it is released in response to stress or shock states, a relative deficiency of vasopressin has been found in prolonged vasodilatory shock, such as is seen in severe sepsis. In this circumstance, exogenous vasopressin has marked vasopressor effects, even at doses that would not affect blood pressure in healthy individuals. These two findings provide the rationale for the use of vasopressin in the treatment of septic shock. However, despite considerable research attention, the mechanisms for vasopressin deficiency and hypersensitivity in vasodilatory shock remain unclear.
Erythrocyte sodium pump stimulation by ouabain and an endogenous ouabain-like factor.	Cardiac glycosides inhibit the sodium pump. However, some studies suggest that nanomolar ouabain concentrations can stimulate the activity of the sodium pump. In this study, using the Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase of human erythrocytes, we compared the effect of digoxin, ouabain and an ouabain like-factor (OLF), on (86)Rb uptake. Ouabain concentrations below 10(-9) M significantly stimulate Rb(+) uptake, and the maximal increase above base-line values is 18 +/- 5% at 10(-10) M ouabain. No stimulation is observed in the same conditions by digoxin. OLF behaved like ouabain, producing an activation of Rb(+) flux at concentrations lower than 10(-9) M ouabain equivalents (14 +/- 3% at 10(-10) M). Western blot analysis revealed the presence of both alpha(1) and alpha(3) pump isoforms in human erythrocytes. Our data confirm the analogies between OLF and ouabain and suggest that Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase activation may be related to the alpha(3) isoform. In addition, we investigated whether ouabain at different concentrations was effective in altering the intracellular calcium concentration of erythrocytes. We found that ouabain at concentration lower than 10(-9) M did not affect this homeostasis.
Involvement of oxidative stress in seizures induced by diphenyl diselenide in rat pups.	In the present study the potential neurotoxicity of diphenyl diselenide, as measured by the manifestation of seizures in rat pups (postnatal days, PND, 12-14) was evaluated. The results suggest that the latency for the appearance of tonic-clonic seizures, characterized by rearing and falling of rat pups body, was dependent of the dose tested. Diphenyl diselenide at high doses induced seizure episodes in rat pups. The highest dose of diphenyl diselenide (500 mg/kg) increased the levels of lipid peroxidation and catalase activity as well as decreased delta-ALA-D (delta-aminolevulinate dehydratase) and Na(+), K(+) ATPase activity in the brain of rat pups. Our results indicate the possible involvement of free radical oxygen injury in diphenyl diselenide-induced seizures. The data obtained with the dose of 150 mg/kg in the brain of rats that exhibited seizures are: an increase in lipid peroxidation levels; the lack of effect on catalase activity; an inhibition of delta-ALA-D activity, supporting that the enzyme activity is more sensitive than other parameters analyzed as an indicator of oxidative stress. The lowest dose of diphenyl diselenide emphasizes the relationship between the appearance of seizures and the latency for the onset of the first episode. Taken together, this paper could add to our understanding of diphenyl diselenide neurotoxic effect demonstrated by the appearance of seizures which are, at least in part, related to the oxidative stress.
Adenosine triphosphatase activity in sciatic nerve tissue of streptozocin-induced diabetic rats with and without high dietary sucrose: effect of aldose reductase inhibitors.	The ability of aldose reductase inhibitors to prevent the decline in neural Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity in diabetic rats has not been confirmed by all laboratories. In this study, the efficacy of two structurally different aldose reductase inhibitors was evaluated under different experimental conditions. Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity was measured in sciatic nerves from streptozocin-induced diabetic rats fed normal rodent chow or a chow supplemented with 68% sucrose. Nerve homogenates from chow-fed rats were prepared with a Dounce tissue grinder, whereas homogenates from the sucrose-fed rats were prepared with an Ultra-Turrax disperser. In the chow-fed rats, 4 weeks of untreated diabetes resulted in an increase in neural sorbitol and fructose, a decrease in myoinositol, and a 54% decline in Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity. Sorbinil administration (20 mg/kg/day) completely prevented the rise in sorbitol and fructose and the depletion of myoinositol, but did not prevent the decline in Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity. In diabetic rats fed the sucrose diet for 4, 6, and 8 weeks, the neural sorbitol and fructose levels were elevated, the myoinositol concentration declined, and the Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity was 26 to 28% below the control. Prevention or intervention treatment with sorbinil (20 mg/kg/day) or tolrestat (50 mg/kg/day) for 4 to 6 weeks prevented the alterations in sorbitol, fructose, and myoinositol, and also prevented the decline in Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity. In conclusion, prevention and intervention therapy with aldose reductase inhibitors prevented the decline in Na+,K(+)-ATPase in sciatic nerves of sucrose-fed streptozocin-diabetic rats that were homogenized with an Ultra-Turrax disperser, but not in sciatic nerves from streptozocin-diabetic rats fed normal rodent chow that were homogenized with a Dounce tissue grinder. These findings indicate that the assessment of aldose reductase inhibitor efficacy is dramatically affected by the type of nerve preparation assayed and/or the diet.
Leishmania amazonensis: heme stimulates (Na(+)+K(+))ATPase activity via phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C/protein kinase C-like (PI-PLC/PKC) signaling pathways.	In the present paper we studied the involvement of the phosphatidylinositol-specific PLC (PI-PLC)/protein kinase C (PKC) pathway in (Na(+)+K(+))ATPase stimulation by heme in Leishmania amazonensis promastigotes. Heme stimulated the PKC-like activity with a concentration of 50nM. Interestingly, the maximal stimulation of the PKC-like activity promoted by phorbol ester was of the same magnitude promoted by heme. However, the stimulatory effect of heme is completely abolished by ET-18-OCH(3) and U73122, specific inhibitors of PI-PLC. (Na(+)+K(+))ATPase activity is increased in the presence of increased concentrations of heme, being maximally affected at 50nM. This effect was completely reversed by 10nM calphostin C, an inhibitor of PKC. Thus, the effect of 50nM heme on (Na(+)+K(+))ATPase activity is completely abolished by ET-18-OCH(3) and U73122. Taken together, these results demonstrate that the heme receptor mediates the stimulatory effect of heme on the (Na(+)+K(+))ATPase activity through a PI-PLC/PKC signaling pathway.
Histological and functional renal alterations caused by Bothrops alternatus snake venom: expression and activity of Na+/K+-ATPase.	Acute renal failure is a serious complication of human envenoming by Bothrops snakes. The ion pump Na+/K+-ATPase has an important role in renal tubule function, where it modulates sodium reabsorption and homeostasis of the extracellular compartment. Here, we investigated the morphological and functional renal alterations and changes in Na+/K+-ATPase expression and activity in rats injected with Bothrops alternatus snake venom.
Modulation of crucial adenosinetriphosphatase activities due to U-74389G administration in a porcine model of intracerebral hemorrhage.	Spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) represents a partially-understood cerebrovascular disease of high incidence, morbidity and mortality. We, herein, report the findings of our study concerning the role of two important adenosinetriphosphatases (ATPases) in a porcine model of spontaneous ICH that we have recently developed (by following recent references as well as previously-established models and techniques), with a focus on the first 4 and 24 h following the lesion's induction, in combination with a study of the effectiveness of the lazaroid antioxidant U-74389G administration. Our study demonstrates that the examined ICH model does not cause a decrease in Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity (the levels of which are responsible for a very large part of neuronal energy expenditure) in the perihematomal basal ganglia territory, nor a change in the activity of Mg(2+)-ATPase. This is the first report focusing on these crucial ATPases in the experimental setting of ICH and differs from the majority of the findings concerning the behavior of these (crucial for central nervous system cell survival) enzymes under stroke-related ischemic conditions. The administration of U-74389G (an established antioxidant) in this ICH model revealed an injury specific type of behavior, that could be considered as neuroprotective provided that one considers that Na(+),K(+)- and Mg(2+)-ATPase inhibition might in this case diminish the local ATP consumption.
Effects of amiodarone on beating rate and Na-K-ATPase activity in cultured neonatal rat heart myocytes.	1. The purpose of this study was to examine the possibility that the cellular action of amiodarone is mediated by inhibition of thyroid hormone regulatory functions within the myocardial cell. We measured the rate of cell beating and the activity of Na-K-ATPase in cultured neonatal rat heart myocytes. 2. Amiodarone (0.25 and 1 microgram/ml) reduced beating rate up to 75% within 20 min, and Na-K-ATPase activity up to 40% within 2 hr. No toxic effects were detected in the treated cells. 3. The inhibitory actions of amiodarone on beating rate and Na-K-ATPase activity were the same in myocytes grown in the presence or absence of 3-iodothyronine (T3, 5 nM). 4. These data indicate that amiodarone affects beating rate and Na-K-ATPase activity independently of thyroid hormone. It is suggested that interference of amiodarone with thyroid hormone action is not the only mechanism by which this drug modulates some functions of the myocardial cell.
3-Nitropropionic acid toxicity in cultured murine embryonal carcinoma cells.	The morphologic and histochemical effects of 3-nitropropionic acid (NPA) were examined in cultured murine embryonal carcinoma cells. NPA caused a dose-dependent inhibition of cell proliferation of cultured murine embryonal carcinoma cells at concentrations above 1.05 mM and was lethal at 4.2 mM. Morphologic changes included gross swelling of the cells, swelling of mitochondria and accumulation of organellar debris within the cytoplasm. NPA inhibited the activity of succinate dehydrogenase but not of malate, isocitrate or glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenases, resulting in a decrease in intracellular ATP. Although succinate dehydrogenase activity was decreased by NPA, propionic acid and its mercapto-, 2-chloro-, and 3-chloro- derivates did not affect enzyme activity. 3-Nitropropanol also inhibited succinate dehydrogenase but only at a much higher concentration than was required with NPA. The results provide evidence that cytotoxicity caused by NPA results from inhibition of succinate dehydrogenase activity leading to depression of ATP synthesis. Loss of cellular integrity is probably a direct consequence of failure of energy-dependent cell homeostatic mechanisms such as the plasma membrane Na+/K+ pump, resulting in swelling and ultimately lysis of the cell.
An extra phosphorylation of Na+,K(+)-ATPase by paranitrophenylphosphate (pNPP): evidence for the oligomeric nature of the enzyme.	Paranitrophenylphosphate (pNPP) induced fluorescence changes in fluorescence isothiocyanate (FITC)-labeled Na+,K(+)-ATPase preparations. The extents of changes were similar to those induced by acetylphosphate (AcP) accompanying accumulation of a K(+)-sensitive phosphoenzyme (E2P) and an ouabain bound phosphoenzyme in the presence of Mg2+ and 16 mM Na+. Phosphoenzymes formed from [32P]pNPP were shown to turn over. The ratio of the maximum amount of the phosphoenzyme formed from pNPP to that of the phosphoenzyme formed from ATP and that of the ouabain-enzyme complex under steady-state conditions was shown to be close to 1:0.5:1. Such extra phosphorylation has hitherto only been observed in a transient state with the additions of high concentrations of ATP [Peluffo, R.D., Garrahan, P.J., and Rega, A. (1992) J. Biol. Chem. 267, 6596-6601]. Our data are compatible with the simultaneous presence of high and low affinity ATP-binding sites in Na+,K(+)-ATPase [Hamer, E. and Schoner, W. (1993) Eur. J. Biochem. 213, 743-748]. The maximum amount of paranitrophenol-sensitive fraction to synthesize [32P]pNPP in fully accumulated ADP-sensitive phosphoenzyme (E1P) from [32P]ATP was around 1/4 of the amount of ouabain-enzyme complex. These data and others indicate that a much higher degree of oligomerization, rather than (alpha beta)2, may be the functional unit of the enzyme in the membranes.
Cyclosporine A enhances total cell calcium independent of Na-K-ATPase in vascular smooth muscle cells.	The effect of cyclosporine A in enhancing vasconstrictor-induced calcium (Ca2+) mobilization in vascular smooth muscle cells may contribute to important side effects in cyclosporine therapy such as hypertension and nephrotoxicity. As we have previously shown, cyclosporine A stimulates transmembrane Ca2+ influx. Since Ca2+ efflux was not affected by cyclosporine A, we concluded that cyclosporine augments angiotensin II induced Ca2+ mobilization in vascular smooth muscle cells by an increased amount of Ca2+ in angiotensin II sensitive intracellular Ca2+ stores. The present study was therefore designed to examine the effect of cyclosporine A on cellular calcium content and on membrane calcium transport mechanisms. An important mechanism of Ca2+ extrusion from the cell is the Na-Ca exchanger. Its activity is closely related with that of the Na-K-ATPase. By increasing cellular sodium concentration the blockade of Na-K-ATPase would in turn activate cellular calcium uptake bx the Na-Ca exchanger. Therefore, we hypothesized that cyclosporine A might exert its effects in the same manner as a circulating Na-K-ATPase inhibitor. Total cell calcium was measured by atomic absorption and activity of Na-K-ATPase was estimated by an assay measuring phosphate production. Preincubation of the cells with cyclosporine (10 micrograms/ml) for 15 min increased total cell calcium from 31.4 +/- 5.0 to 46.5 +/- 5.3 nmol/mg protein (P < 0.05). Activity of Na-K-ATPase was not affected by cyclosporine A (3.9 +/- 0.2 vs. 4.3 +/- 0.2 mumol Pi h-1 mg-1 protein). Therefore, cyclosporine A induced Ca2+ influx is not mediated by an inhibition of the Na-K-ATPase.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effects of digitalis compounds on K(+)-induced relaxation in aortic rings]	It has been shown that, changes in the structure of the cardiac glycoside, are related to changes in their biological effects. In the present study we compared the effects of two structurally different digitalis compound (ouabain and ouabagenin), on K+ induced vascular relaxation as an index of the Na+K+ ATPase activity. Ouabain was the most potent compound tested, and had vasoconstrictor effect on the rat aortic rings, as, well as inhibitory effect on the K(+)-induced relaxation. Ouabagenin did not affect either the vascular tone or K(+)-induced relaxation. It is well known that changes in the part of the structure of the cardiac glycoside that contain the sugar, are important to maintain some of their biological effects. In this paper we demonstrate that elimination of the 1-rhamnose in ouabagenin reduces its vascular effects associated to the inhibition of the Na+ K+ ATPase pump.
The effect of cardiac glycosides on the Na+ pump current-voltage relationship of isolated rat and guinea-pig heart cells.	1. Whole-cell recording from isolated rat and guinea-pig ventricular myocytes revealed a change of the cardiac Na+ pump current (Ip)-voltage (V) relationship by cardiac glycosides, specific inhibitors of the Na(+)-K+ pump. 2. Dihydro-ouabain (DHO) diminished Ip in rat ventricular cells at 0 mV in a concentration-dependent manner. 3. The concentration-response curve of Ip inhibition caused by DHO was shifted to higher [DHO] at higher extracellular K+ concentrations ([K+]o) or at more negative membrane potentials. 4. In rat myocytes, DHO immediately flattened the normalized cardiac Ip-V curve and evoked or enhanced a region of negative slope. 5. Ouabain, at concentrations which caused a comparable inhibition of Ip, exerted DHO-like effects on the Ip-V relationship of rat ventricular myocytes. However, the effects developed more slowly. 6. A slowly developing alteration of the Ip-V curve was also observed upon application of DHO to guinea-pig ventricular cells. The range of [DHO] used was about 100-fold lower than that applied to rat ventricular cells, but was equally effective for Ip inhibition. 7. Increasing the K+ concentration of DHO-containing media affected the existing equilibrium of DHO binding to the cardiac Na(+)-K+ pump. A new equilibrium was reached within about 3 s in rat ventricular myocytes, but only within about 50 s in guinea-pig ventricular cells under the experimental conditions chosen. 8. It is concluded that the changes of the cardiac Ip-V curve induced by cardiac glycosides are mediated by voltage-dependent variations of the local [K+]o at the K+ binding sites of the Na(+)-K+ pump in an 'access channel'. The variations were estimated by means of the Boltzmann equation. The estimations agreed with those derived from the measured DHO binding to the Na(+)-K+ pump at various [K+]o. A new equilibrium of glycoside binding to the pump is established at the altered [K+]o. The time necessary to reach the new binding equilibrium varies with the cardioactive steroid, its concentration and the glycoside sensitivity of the cardiac cells.
Brevetoxin-3 (PbTx-3) inhibits oxygen consumption and increases Na+ content in mouse liver slices through a tetrodotoxin-sensitive pathway.	To have insights into possible non-neural effects of PbTx-3 (0.07 microgram/ml), its effects on various parameters of hepatic metabolism were evaluated. PbTx-3 inhibits oxygen consumption (QO2) in liver slices by 25 +/- 1%, and increases hepatocyte Na+/K+ ratio by 72 +/- 4%. Ouabain, a Na(+)-K(+)-pump inhibitor, also reduced QO2 by 19 +/- 2% and raised the Na+/K+ ratio by 77 +/- 4%. The effects of PbTx-3 and ouabain on QO2 and Na+/K+ ratio were not additive, suggesting a role for the Na(+)-K(+)-pump in these actions of PbTx-3. However, Na(+)-K(+)-pump activity determinations, using 86Rb as a K+ tracer, did not reveal inhibitory effects of this toxin on the transport system. This indicates that the pump is not a target of PbTx-3. The effect of PbTx-3 on liver slices Na+ content was abolished by the sodium channel blocker tetrodotoxin (0.1 microM). Tetrodotoxin also antagonized the inhibition of oxygen consumption by PbTx-3. These results suggest that in the liver PbTx-3 can induce effects that appear to be similar to those observed in excitable tissue.
Responses of rat mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons to a prolonged period of oxygen deprivation.	We employed intracellular electrophysiological techniques to examine the effects of a prolonged anoxia (more than 7 min superfusion with artificial cerebrospinal fluid saturated with 95% N2-5% O2) on dopaminergic neurons of the rat ventral mesencephalon maintained in vitro. A prolonged anoxia caused an inhibition of the spontaneous firing and a sustained (mean 16 min) and slowing declining hyperpolarization of the membrane in 30 dopaminergic cells. This was associated with a decrease of the apparent input resistance at 5, 10, 15 and 20 min of O2 deprivation by 38% (n = 18), 42% (n = 8), 48% (n = 18) and 54% (n = 8) of control, respectively. The continuation of anoxia, 1-4 min after the hyperpolarizing period, induced an irreversible depolarization (n = 8). More than 50% of the cells (17 of 30) fully recovered their electrophysiological properties after 15 min of O2 deprivation. Since the intracellular diffusion of cesium (a potassium channel blocker) was able to block the hyperpolarization and to reveal a depolarization caused by anoxia, we tested whether the blockade of the hyperpolarization modified the resistance of the cells to O2 deprivation. We observed that the cells loaded with cesium were depolarized and damaged in a period of O2 deprivation less than 10 min. The apparent input resistance of these neurons was irreversibly reduced by 36% of the control at 5 min of anoxia (n = 6). Furthermore, in order to ascertain whether an impairment of the sodium/potassium pump due to energy failure is involved in the anoxia-induced depolarization, we blocked the Na+/K+ ATPase pump with the inhibitor ouabain.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Glutamate up-regulates alpha 1 and alpha 2 subunits of the sodium pump in astrocytes of mixed telencephalic cultures but not in pure astrocyte cultures.	Prior work employing an in vitro model of the cerebral cortex has shown that sodium pump activity is a critical determinant for neuronal survival of glutamate stimulation. We have hypothesized that up-regulation of total brain sodium pump activity will protect against potential excitotoxins. Increased sodium pump activity could theoretically occur by changes in the reaction rate (short-term) and/or by increased levels of sodium pump protein (long-term) and is potentially complex since the three catalytic (a) subunit isoforms of the sodium pump are distributed in a highly variable, cell-specific pattern in the brain. Short-term regulation (seconds to minutes) has been well studied: brain sodium pump exhibits a large dynamic range. In contrast, the possibility of long-term modulation of sodium pump activity has not been extensively explored. We used isoform specific antibodies and [3H]ouabain binding to determine whether prolonged stimulation of sodium pump activity in rodent telencephalic cultures increased total sodium pump enzyme. Exposure of mixed neuronal-glial cultures to high levels of glutamate (10 mM) for 18 h, which is highly toxic to neurons, was associated with an approximately 80% increase in alpha 1 and alpha 2 subunit expression by glia. Induction of alpha 2 subunit immunoreactivity was also associated with comparable changes in [3H]ouabain binding, suggesting that the up-regulation corresponded to functional alpha 2 protein. Shorter (30 min) glutamate treatments, which also killed neurons, did not produce similar changes in sodium pump expression. In contrast to mixed cultures, pure astrocyte cultures had undetectable alpha 2 and alpha 3 and moderate levels of alpha 1 protein, as confirmed by low levels of [3H]ouabain binding. Glutamate treatment using this protocol was associated with a decrease in alpha 1 sodium pump expression. We conclude that long-term regulation of the sodium pump can be demonstrated in glia which have developed in the presence of neurons. Both alpha 1 and alpha 2 isoforms of the sodium pump are involved in this response to glutamate.
Free radicals uncouple the sodium pump in pig coronary artery.	Free radicals may impair vital functions of several types of tissues including coronary artery smooth muscle. Because the Na+ pump plays a key role in maintaining coronary tone, the effects of superoxide and peroxide on this protein were examined. Ouabain-sensitive Rb+ uptake by denuded coronary artery rings was used in lieu of K+ transport by this pump. It was inhibited by exposing the rings for 90 min either to peroxide [50% inhibitory concentration (IC50) = 0.56 +/- 0.18 mM] or to superoxide generated by xanthine oxidase (XO; 0.3 mM xanthine and xanthine oxidase, IC50 = 0.08 +/- 02 mU/ml). The effect of peroxide was not overcome by superoxide dismutase and that of superoxide was not prevented by catalase. K(+)-activated ouabain-sensitive hydrolysis of p-nitrophenyl phosphate in the plasma membrane-enriched fraction isolated from the coronary artery smooth muscle was monitored as the hydrolytic activity of the Na+ pump. It was inhibited by exposing the membranes only to very high concentrations of peroxide (IC50 = 9.85 +/- 3.5 mM) or XO (IC50 = 5 +/- 2 mU/ml). The exposure to 2.5 mM H2O2 or 0.5 mU/ml XO reduced the Na(+)-dependent acylphosphate levels only by 41 +/- 3 and 30 +/- 4%, respectively even though either inhibited the Rb+ uptake by > 80%. Thus superoxide and peroxide uncoupled the hydrolytic activity of the Na+ pump from Rb+ uptake. We speculate that such an uncoupling in ischemia and reperfusion would result in dual damage: ion imbalance and continuous hydrolysis of ATP in the cells that are already starved.
Role of protein kinase C in insulin activation of the Na-K pump in cultured skeletal muscle.	Administration of insulin to preparations of skeletal muscle causes an increase in Na(+)-K+ pump activity within 15-30 min. Although several mechanisms have been proposed, such as promotion of Na+ influx and translocation of pumps from intracellular to membrane sites, the early events involved in this effect remain unknown. We have investigated the possibility that activation of protein kinase C (PKC) may be an initial event in Na(+)-K+ pump activation in primary cultures of rat skeletal muscle. Insulin (80-100 mU/ml) and tumor-promoting phorbol esters (10-100 nM) increased Na(+)-K+ pump activity as determined by measurements of ouabain-suppressible 86Rb uptake, electrogenic pump component of membrane potential, and specific [3H]ouabain binding. These effects were not reduced by treatment of myotubes with amiloride, which blocks Na(+)-H+ exchange, or with tetrodotoxin, which blocks voltage-dependent Na+ channels. Effects of insulin and phorbol esters were not additive, suggestive of a common mechanism. Effects of both phorbol esters and insulin were significantly reduced by staurosporine (50-100 nM) and by downregulation of PKC (by pretreatment of myotubes with phorbol ester for 24 h). The findings suggest that insulin may stimulate Na(+)-K+ pump activity in skeletal muscle by activation of PKC.
Relationship between photodynamically induced damage to various cellular parameters and loss of clonogenicity in different cell types with hematoporphyrin derivative as sensitizer.	The possible causal relationship between various forms of photodynamically inflicted damage and reproductive cell death of cultivated cells was evaluated according to three criteria. The probability for the existence of such a relationship is high, when the particular form of cellular damage (i) exhibits a dose-effect curve, comparable to the dose-effect curve of loss of clonogenicity, (ii) is not readily repairable during further incubation of the treated cells and (iii) varies in a way comparable to the loss of clonogenicity under varying experimental conditions. According to these criteria it could be shown that many forms of photodynamically inflicted cellular damage are presumably not directly involved in loss of clonogenicity. Only for a few kinds of cellular damage studied in the present investigations was the probability for a causal relationship with reproductive cell death much higher. For L929 fibroblasts this is either an inhibition of the Na+/K(+)-ATPase activity, or a relatively slight DNA damage combined with a strong inhibition of DNA excision repair. For T24 human bladder carcinoma cells the kinds of cellular damage that may be causally related to reproductive cell death are again inhibition of Na+/K(+)-ATPase activity, inhibition of amino-acid (AIB and glycine) transport activity or impairment of mitochondrial function. Finally, for CHO cells, inhibition of leucine and phenylalanine transport and impairment of mitochondrial function may be crucial for loss of clonogenicity. These results indicate that the pathways leading to photodynamically induced reproductive cell death may be quite different for different cell types.
Dexamethasone enhances active cation transport in cultured aortic smooth muscle cells.	Previous studies have indicated that ouabain-sensitive cation transport is increased in arteries obtained from rats with glucocorticoid-induced hypertension. However, it remained unclear whether this effect reflected direct glucocorticoid activation or rather depended on the elevated arterial pressure per se. In the present study, we examined the effect of dexamethasone on cultured rat aortic smooth muscle cells. Dexamethasone (10(-9) mol/L) increased ouabain-sensitive 86Rb uptake by about 50% (control: 16.5 +/- 1.6 pmol/mg protein/10 min; dexamethasone 10(-9) mol/L: 24.4 +/- 1.3 pmol/mg protein/10 min). The effect was not apparent until 18 h of incubation and was partly inhibited by the mineralocorticoid antagonist spironolactone. Dexamethasone also increased membrane potential in these cells by an average of 9.5 mV (control: -43.3 +/- 4 mV; dexamethasone: -52.8 +/- 4 mV), presumably reflecting increased intracellular K+ activity as a result of dexamethasone's effect on the Na,K pump. These results suggest a direct effect of glucocorticoids on arterial Na,K pump. The physiopathological significance of this effect remains to be determined.
Inotropic effect of the cardioprotective agent 2,3-butanedione monoxime in failing and nonfailing human myocardium.	The drug 2,3-butanedione monoxime (BDM) was suggested to be a potent cardioprotective agent useful for cardiopreservation. The present study investigated the activity of BDM and its mechanism of action in human myocardium. In electrically driven left ventricular papillary muscle strips and right atrial trabeculae from failing (heart transplants) and nonfailing (donor hearts) human myocardium, isometric force development and the force-frequency relationship were examined. To study the sarcolemmal actions of BDM, competition experiments with 125I-iodocyanopindolol, 3H-ouabain and 3H(+)PN 200-110 were performed. The effect of BDM on the contractile apparatus was tested by investigating its effects on Ca++ sensitivity and on the relaxation parameters of skinned fiber preparations. In papillary muscle strips and in atrial trabeculae, BDM (0.001-30 mM) depressed the isometric force of contraction in a concentration-dependent manner. BDM was more potent in atrial than in ventricular tissue and it shifted the Ca++ concentration-response curve in atrial and ventricular tissue to the right. The potency of BDM to depress force development was significantly lower compared with the L type of Ca++ channel antagonist nifedipine in both atrial and ventricular myocardium. In the presence of 10 mM BDM, the force-frequency relationship becomes positive in failing myocardium but not in the presence of 1 mM BDM, which did not affect the specific binding of 125I-iodocyanopindolol, 3H-ouabain or 3H(+)PN 200-110. This indicated there was no action on beta adrenoceptors, cardiac glycoside receptors and dihydropyridine-type Ca++ channels.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Development of Na+ transport in the chicken colon.	To evaluate the developmental changes in colonic Na+ transport, Na, K-ATPase activity and the sensitivity of the short-circuit current to amiloride were investigated. The amiloride-sensitive short-circuit current which represents the electrogenic, amiloride-sensitive Na+ transport through Na+ channels, was not present in chicken embryos but rose significantly after hatching in chicks which were kept on a low-salt diet. Amiloride-sensitive short-circuit current increased gradually but the plateau was not reached during the first 15 days of life. Drinking of 0.9% NaCl totally inhibited the induction of amiloride-sensitive Na+ transport. Na+, K(+)-ATPase activity increased during development but was not influenced by changes in salt intake. Na+ transport in chicken colon therefore undergoes profound developmental changes. The increase of Na+ transport reflects not only the adaptation of colonocytes to low salt intake but also the maturation of Na+ absorption in colon. The possible role of aldosterone in the adaptation to low-salt intake is discussed.
Comparative nephrotoxic effects of cis-platinum (II), cis-palladium (II), and cis-rhodium (III) metal coordination compounds in rat kidneys.	A Sprague-Dawley rat kidney perfusion technique was used in situ to study the effects of cis-dichloro-diamine platinum, PdCl2 (2,6-diaminopyridine), and RhCl3 (2,6-diaminopyridine) on sodium and calcium retention in the whole kidney. The technique involves perfusion of both kidneys via the abdominal aorta and then through the right and left renal arteries and dorsal aorta. Compared to controls, kidneys perfused independently with the three coordination compounds showed approximately equal to 45% decrease and approximately equal to 117% increase in Na+ and Ca2+ retention, respectively. Perfusates containing the coordination compounds in addition to 15 mM ouabain showed approximately equal to 76% decrease in Na+ and insignificant increase in renal Ca2+ retention. Hence, one can rule out the presence of voltage-gated Ca(2+)-channels at the basolateral side due to membrane depolarization. These results suggest that the three metal coordination compounds showed identical nephrotoxic effects on the handling of Na+ and Ca2+ ions by inhibiting both the Na(+)-Ca(2+)-anti-porter and the Na(+)-H(+)-exchanger with laxing effects on nonvoltage-gated Ca(2+)-channels at the basolateral side. However, their effects on the Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase and the Na(+)-Ca2+ symporter was insignificant.
Phosalone poisoning on the cation-linked ATPases of central nervous system of Rana tigrina (Daudin).	An acute dose of phosalone, an organophosphate pesticide, widely used in crop fields, injected to Rana tigrina, intraperitoneally, inhibited the different inorganic ion linked ATPase enzymes of the central nervous system (CNS). Six discrete CNS compartments, namely telencephalon, mid-brain, rhombencephalon, cervical spinal cord, thoracic spinal cord and lumbar spinal cord showed markedly diminished ATPase activity. ATPases inhibition affected the neuronal activity and muscular coordination leading to moribund or comatose phase in the poisoned frogs. The specific inhibition of Mg(2+)-ATPase suggests the uncoupling action of the compound in the neuronal tissue. Increased oxygen uptake in the brain regions of phosalone-treated frogs also supports the above uncoupling action.
ATP1AL1, a member of the non-gastric H,K-ATPase family, functions as a sodium pump.	The human ATP1AL1-encoded protein (an alpha subunit of the human non-gastric H,K-ATPase) has previously been shown to assemble with the gastric H,K-ATPase beta subunit (gH,Kbeta) to form a functionally active ionic pump in HEK 293 cells. This pump has been found to be sensitive to both SCH 28080 and ouabain. However, the 86Rb+-influx mediated by the ATP1AL1-gH,Kbeta heterodimer in HEK 293 cells is at least 1 order of magnitude larger than the maximum ouabain-sensitive proton efflux detected in the same cells. In this study we find that the intracellular Na+ content in cells expressing ATP1AL1 and gH,Kbeta is two times lower than that in control HEK 293 cells in response to incubation for 3 h in the presence of 1 microM ouabain. Moreover, analysis of net Na+ efflux in HEK 293 expressing the ATP1AL1-gH,Kbeta heterodimer reveals the presence of Na+ extrusion activity that is not sensitive to 1 microM ouabain but can be inhibited by 1 mM of this drug. In contrast, ouabain-inhibitable Na+ efflux in control HEK 293 cells is similarly sensitive to either 1 microM or 1 mM ouabain. Finally, 86Rb+ influx through the ATP1AL1-gH,Kbeta complex is comparable to the 1 mM ouabain-sensitive Na+ efflux in the same cells. The data presented here suggest that the enzyme formed by ATP1AL1 and the gastric H,K-ATPase beta subunit in HEK 293 cells mediates primarily Na+,K+ rather than H+,K+ exchange.
Role of apical H-K exchange and basolateral K channel in the regulation of intracellular pH in rat distal colon crypt cells.	An apical membrane ouabain-sensitive H-K exchange and a barium-sensitive basolateral membrane potassium channel are present in colonic crypt cells and may play a role in both K absorption and intracellular pH (pHi) regulation. To examine the possible interrelationship between apical membrane H-K exchange and basolateral membrane K movement in rat distal colon in the regulation of pHi, experiments were designed to assess whether changes in extracellular potassium can alter pHi. pHi in isolated rat crypts was determined using microspectrofluorimetric measurements of the pH-sensitive dye BCECF-AM (2', 7'-bis(carboxyethyl-5(6)-carboxy-fluorescein acetoxy methylester). After loading with the dye, crypts were superfused with a Na-free solution which resulted in a rapid and reversible fall in pHi (7.36 +/- 0.02 to 6.98 +/- 0.03). Following an increase in extracellular [K] to 20 mm, in the continued absence of Na, there was a further decrease in pHi (0.20 +/- 0.02, P < 0.01). K-induced acidification was blocked both by 2 mm bath barium, a K channel blocker, and by 0. 5 mm lumen ouabain. K-induced acidification was also observed when intracellular acidification was induced by a NH4Cl prepulse. These observations suggest that increased basolateral K movement increases intracellular [K] resulting in a decrease in pHi that is mediated by a ouabain-sensitive apical membrane H,K-ATPase. Our results demonstrate an interrelationship between basolateral K movement and apical H-K exchange in the regulation of pHi and apical K entry in rat distal colon.
The sensitivity of catalytic subunit isoforms of Na+,K+-ATPase of rat brain to peroxide membrane modification]	The comparative study of the sensitivity of Na+, K(+)-ATPase isozymes from cerebral cortex to ascorbate-dependent membrane peroxidation was conducted. With highly inactivated Na+, K(+)-ATPase the degree of inactivation of the SH-dependent ouabain-sensitive forms alpha+ (alpha 2 and alpha 3) is higher than glycoside-resistant isoform alpha 1. The process is accompanied by simultaneous lipid peroxidation and decrease of SH-groups amount in enzyme preparations. The combined nature of the oxidative Na+, K(+)-ATPase inactivation, accompanied by the direct oxidation of enzyme SH-groups and modification of lipid environment is supposed.
Alterations in rat erythrocyte membrane due to hexachlorocyclohexane (technical) exposure.	1. Hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH), an organochlorine pesticide having hydrophobic molecule is known to act on membranes. HCH mediated alterations in erythrocyte membrane occur through disorganization of the lipid bilayer. Therefore the changes in erythrocyte membrane fluidity, osmotic fragility and certain membrane bound enzymes were studied. Administration of HCH (technical) to rats at 5 mg/kg, orally, 5 days a week for 1, 2 and 3 months caused marked increase in erythrocyte membrane fluidity, osmotic fragility and decrease in levels of Na+, K(+)-ATPase, acetylcholinesterase in erythrocytes and glutathione in blood. 2. These changes indicate that HCH adversely affects membrane structure and function.
The antioxidant action of taurine in acute hypoxic hypoxia]	It was found that preliminary treatment by amino acid taurine protected rats from lipid peroxidation intensification (expressed in terms of malondialdehyde and conjugated dienes contents) in the liver, brain and heart under acute severe normobaric hypoxic hypoxia. The mechanisms of the antioxidant action of taurine are connected to the prevention of lactate accumulation in tissues and cell membrane structure disorders (expressed in a decrease of membrane Na+, K(+)-ATPase activity). It was also shown that taurine reduced significantly a decrease of glutathione antioxidant system activity protecting tissues against reduced glutathione pool depletion and preventing a decrease of glutathione reductase and glutathione peroxidase activities in acute severe hypoxia.
Effect of norepinephrine on ouabain-sensitive, K+-dependent p-nitrophenylphosphatase activity in strial marginal cells of the cochlea in normal and reserpinized guinea pigs.	On the basolateral infoldings of the strial marginal cells in the cochlea, Na K ATPase activity is abundant. To clarify the humoral control by norepinephrine, K-NPPase activity of strial marginal cells in the cochlea was investigated in normal, reserpine, norepinephrine (NE), reserpine plus NE-treated guinea pigs using a cerium-based method. K-NPPase activity was almost completely decreased 3-20 days after reserpine administration. At 10 days after reserpinization and following NE repeated treatment, enzyme activity was detectable. These results suggested that norepinephrine might restore and regulate strial K-NPPase activity.
