Comparison of effects of captopril used either alone or in combination with a thiazide diuretic on insulin action in hypertensive Type 2 diabetic patients: a double-blind crossover study.	It has been suggested that the adverse metabolic effects of antihypertensive therapy offset some of the benefits of blood pressure reduction. It has also been suggested that angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors reduce insulin resistance and that, if used together with thiazide diuretics, the adverse effects of thiazides on insulin sensitivity may be eliminated. We examined the effects on insulin sensitivity of captopril either alone or in combination with bendrofluazide in 11 hypertensive Type 2 diabetic patients.
AT1-receptor blocker-based combination therapy in hypertension.	Despite an increase in the number of patients treated for hypertension, blood pressure control is achieved in a minority of patients. The use of rational, well-tolerated combination regimens with complementary modes of action, such as an AT1-receptor blocker administered with a low dose of a thiazide diuretic, provides an effective and well-tolerated management strategy for patients who require more than monotherapy to control blood pressure. In clinical trials in patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension, a newly available combination of candesartan cilexetil-hydrochlorothiazide (HCT) 16/12.5 mg was significantly more effective than either monotherapy. This combination was also more effective than losartan-HCT 50/12.5 mg in two double-blind, randomized studies in patients with mild, moderate or severe hypertension. Furthermore, the antihypertensive efficacy of candesartan cilexetil-HCT was evident at up to 48 h following the last dose, while the effect of losartan-HCT declined rapidly during this period. Thus, the new fixed-dose AT1-receptor blocker/diuretic combination, candesartan cilexetil-HCT 16/12.5 mg combines enhanced efficacy with excellent tolerability and sets a new standard for the treatment of hypertension requiring more than monotherapy.
Diuretics for cardiovascular prevention in the elderly.	High blood pressure (BP) is a major risk factor for cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases in elderly subjects. Antihypertensive drugs have shown clinical benefit both in primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular events. If BP lowering represents the major determinant of the effects conferred by the antihypertensive treatment for prevention, recent studies have suggested some differences between classes of antihypertensive drugs according to age. Based on the available clinical data, the recent medical guidelines have recommended thiazide-type diuretics as the preferred drug for the treatment of elderly hypertensive patients, followed by long-acting calcium antagonists. Indeed, diuretics constitute one of the most valuable classes of antihypertensive drugs, and in the elderly, diuretic-based treatment studies have been clearly shown to prevent major cardiovascular events, including stroke, heart failure and coronary heart disease.
The place of diuretics in preventing cardiovascular events.	Low-dose diuretics are recommended for the initial choice of antihypertensive therapy in the 7th US Joint National Committee report and are accepted as an appropriate choice among other classes of drugs in the 2003 European Society of Hypertension guidelines. The rationales for the use of low-dose diuretics include the following: Renal dysfunction interfering with normal natriuresis is likely a fundamental defect in the pathogenesis of hypertension. Subtle renal insufficiency that interferes with sodium excretion is a common consequence of uncontrolled hypertension. Diuretic-based therapy has been clearly documented in placebo-controlled, randomized trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, particularly in the treatment of elderly hypertensives.In multiple comparative trials, diuretic-based therapy has been shown to provide equal cardiovascular protection to that provided by newer agents. Diuretics enhance the antihypertensive efficacy of all other classes of agents. As lower blood pressure goals of therapy have been found to be needed, diuretic enhancement of other agents' efficacy has become even more essential. With such low doses, side effects are minimal in degree and infrequent in appearance.
Lethal polypharmacy in a patient with arterial hypertension]	A 86-year-old man was referred as he developed a ventricular escape rhythm and severe hypotension. Although external cardiac pacing was begun, the patient subsequently needed intubation as of progressive cerebral deterioration. It turned out that the patient had been treated with a combination compound including hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg, amilorid 5 mg and timolol 20 mg daily for several years. A second combination compound including verapamil 180 mg and trandolapril 2 mg daily was added 5 days prior to hospitalisation due to insufficient control of arterial hypertension.
Fixed-dose combinations in the management of hypertension: defining the place of angiotensin receptor antagonists and hydrochlorothiazide.	We discuss combination therapy with angiotensin receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers; ARBs) and thiazide diuretics in light of the independent actions of both types of agents, and the adverse effects of both agents independently and in the context of the physiologic synergy achieved in using these agents together. ARBs counteract many of the adverse events associated with the use of thiazide diuretics and have been shown to reduce the occurrence of new-onset diabetes mellitus. We also review outcome trials in patients with hypertension (such as LIFE [Losartan Intervention For Endpoint reduction in hypertension], VALUE [Valsartan Antihypertensive Long-term Use Evaluation], and SCOPE [Study on COgnition and Prognosis in the Elderly]), in which losartan, valsartan, and candesartan cilexetil were used in combination with hydrochlorothiazide. Fixed combination ARB/hydrochlorothiazide agents make sense as initial therapy for patients in whom BP is >20/10 mm Hg above goal.
Left ventricular (LV) geometry and dipping state are determinants of LV mass reduction with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor antihypertensive treatment.	Left ventricular hypertrophy is a major risk predictor in hypertensive patients and its regression is beneficial in terms of prognosis. The aim of this observational, open-labeled study was to investigate the effect of left ventricular geometry and dipping pattern on left ventricular mass reduction after chronic treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, in a large population of hypertensive patients.
Effects of low-dose liquorice alone or in combination with hydrochlorothiazide on the plasma potassium in healthy volunteers.	Both liquorice and thiazide diuretics have hypokalaemic effects. In spite of their prevalent use, there are no studies on hypokalaemia caused by the combination of liquorice and thiazides. We recruited 10 healthy volunteers in order to study the effects of 32 g liquorice alone or in combination with 25mg hydrochlorothiazide a day for 2 weeks. The trial had a randomized, open and crossover design. During the liquorice phase, there were no changes in plasma potassium, sodium, creatinine, renin activity, serum aldosterone, blood pressure or heart rate. Weight tended to increase by 0.4 kg (70.2 to 70.6 kg; p=0.056). During the liquorice-hydrochlorothiazide phase, the plasma potassium decreased by 0.32 mmol/l (p=0.0015), plasma renin activity increased by 1.6 microg/l/h (p=0.0064) and the weight decreased by 0.9 kg (70.5 to 69.6 kg, p=0.0065). Twenty per cent of the subjects (2/10) became hypokalaemic during the combined liquorice-hydrochlorothiazide treatment. Furthermore, both subjects developed hypokalaemia within the first week of the combined treatment leading to premature discontinuation. The evaluation of liquorice consumption habits is warranted when initiating thiazide medications to avoid the excessive risk of hypokalaemia associated with the combined use of low-dose liquorice and thiazide diuretics.
Hydrochlorothiazide versus spironolactone: long-term metabolic modifications in patients with essential hypertension.	The metabolic side effects of thiazide diuretics are believed to be responsible for the failure of thiazide diuretics to reduce cardiovascular morbidity in patients with hypertension. However, the decrease in the incidence of osteoporotic fractures that are associated with thiazide administration may be relevant in elderly patients with arterial hypertension. Spironolactone (SP) appears not to influence the metabolic risk profile of the patient with hypertension, and no studies have examined its effect on calcium metabolism. Therefore, in 22 patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension, the authors performed a parallel, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study that compared the effects on serum urate and lipid, potassium, magnesium, and calcium metabolism of hydrochlorothiazide (HC) (mean [+/- SD] dose, 72 +/- 26 mg/d) and SP (144 +/- 53 mg/d) during a 52-week period. As compared with placebo, HC significantly increased serum urate and total cholesterol concentrations, and decreased serum potassium levels. SP did not affect serum urate or cholesterol levels but increased serum potassium concentrations. Neither diuretic significantly modified magnesium metabolism. Little changes were seen in serum calcium levels during HC or SP treatment, whereas urinary calcium excretion was significantly decreased by HC (mean decrease, 45%; P less than .01) or SP (40%; P less than .01). The authors conclude that SP, in addition to its potassium-sparing properties, has a calcium-sparing effect that may be beneficial for patients in whom reduction of urinary calcium excretion has a therapeutic value.
Switching therapy from variable-dose multiple pill to fixed-dose single-pill combinations of angiotensin II receptor blockers and thiazides for hypertension.	The efficacy and tolerability of switching therapy from free combinations of angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and thiazide (A/T) to a fixed-dose of losartan and hydrochlorothiazide (L/H) has not been evaluated in Japan. We examined effects of switching therapy from variable-dose multiple-pill A/T to a fixed-dose L/H on blood pressure (BP) along with medication adherence and the degree of satisfaction in 91 hypertensive outpatients (mean age, 65.2 ± 9.6 years). After 6 months, a significant BP reduction (132 ± 9/76 ± 10 vs. 126 ± 12/72 ± 11 mm Hg), along with an improvement of attaining target BP (44.0 vs. 61.5%) and that of adherence, were observed. The magnitude of BP reduction in the participants increased their degree of satisfaction more significantly than in the participants who worsened their degree of satisfaction. The estimated glomerular filtration rate and the serum uric acid (UA) level decreased slightly but significantly. The hemoglobin A1c of participants with diabetes mellitus increased slightly but significantly. In conclusion, a switch in therapy from variable-dose, multiple-pill A/T combinations to a fixed-dose, single-pill L/H was effective in decreasing BP and serum UA in Japanese clinical practice. Metabolic side effects of L/H in patients with diabetes mellitus remain to be investigated.
Evaluation of a "shotgun" regimen for sudden hearing loss.	One hundred nine patients with idiopathic sudden hearing loss were treated with a "shotgun" regimen that included dextran, histamine, Hypaque, diuretics, steroids, vasodilators, and carbogen inhalation. Thirty-three patients received the entire protocol and 76 patients received most, but not all, of the protocol drugs. Some improvement of hearing (greater than 10 dB in pure-tone average) was seen in 52% of patients treated with the complete protocol and in 54% of patients who received the partial protocol. All patients were analyzed for potential prognostic indicators. Patients with thresholds at 8000 Hz better than at 4000 Hz fared better than the group as a whole. Vertigo at the time of onset of hearing loss was a sign of poor prognosis. There was no correlation between hearing improvement and the age of the patient or the sedimentation rate. Most importantly, there was no statistically significant difference in outcome between patients treated with the complete protocol and those who received only part of the protocol. Furthermore, when the effect of each drug was examined individually, there was no significant difference between those patients receiving and not receiving treatment. The results suggest that this "shotgun" approach for treatment of sudden hearing loss offers no better outcome than is reported in the literature for spontaneous recovery.
Effect of captopril therapy on sodium and water excretion in patients with liver cirrhosis and ascites]	Ascites in patients with cirrhosis of the liver frequently is refractory to diuretic treatment. It was postulated that vasoconstriction of the renal cortex, mediated by activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone-system (RAAS), may be one course of the disturbed sodium- and water-excretion in these patients. We therefore investigated in 14 cirrhotic patients with ascites under constant diuretic treatment the effects of low-dose captopril therapy on urinary sodium- and potassium-excretion, body weight, abdominal girth, serum-sodium, -potassium, creatinine-clearance, plasma-renin-activity (PRA), plasma-aldosterone (PA) and mean arterial pressure (MAP). After a control period of 4 days the patients received 2 x 6.25 mg/d captopril for 5 days and 4 x 6.25 mg/d for further 5 days. Treatment was followed by a second control period without captopril. PRA increased significantly after 2 days of captopril treatment. 2 x 6.25 mg/d captopril induced a significant increase in sodium excretion and a significant decrease of body weight. MAP decreased slightly but significantly without clinical signs of hypotension. 4 x 6.25 mg/d captopril resulted in a further reduction of body weight and a further enhancement of sodium excretion. Three days after withdrawal of captopril sodium output was significantly reduced again.
An open comparison between free and a fixed combination of diuretic and beta-blocker in the management of essential hypertension.	A total of 1,117 patients with inadequately controlled hypertension in spite of treatment with a combination of diuretic and beta-adrenergic blocker were studied. Treatment was changed to one or two tablets daily of Trasidrex (160 mg oxprenolol hydrochloride in a sustained release formulation and 0.25 mg cyclopenthiazide) with a subsequent improvement, 4 weeks later, in blood pressure control. Side-effects of treatment were uncommon and treatment was approved by the majority of patients. The majority of doctors participating thought a fixed combination would improve patient compliance with therapy.
Comparative clinical trial of bemetizide/triamterene and cyclopenthiazide/potassium chloride combinations in patients with mild to moderate hypertension.	A double-blind trial was carried out to compare the combination of 25 mg bemetizide plus 50 mg triamterene ('Hypertane') and 0.25 mg cyclopenthiazide plus 600 mg potassium chloride ('Navidrex' K) in the treatment of mild to moderate essential hypertension. Two well matched groups of patients were treated for periods of 6 weeks with one or other of the drugs under test. There were 2-week placebo run-in and run-out periods. Blood pressure and laboratory investigations were performed every 2 weeks during the trial period. Both treatments resulted in similar overall statistically significant reductions in blood pressure during the trial. With bemetizide/triamterene, mean lying blood pressure decreased by 11.1/11.2 mmHg and mean standing blood pressure by 15.9/10.3 mmHg; with cyclopenthiazide/potassium chloride the corresponding reductions were 14.9/12.1 mmHg and 9.1/11.7 mmHg. The fact that some of the observed overall reduction seen with both drugs was due to 'placebo effect' is discussed but the clinical importance of overall changes is stressed. There were no significant differences between changes in blood pressure with the two treatments. Biochemical changes were those expected with thiazide diuretics. However, the decrease in potassium and increases in urea and uric acid levels were less with bemetizide/triamterene than with cyclopenthiazide/potassium chloride. Clinical tolerance of both treatments was good.
Self-control of blood pressure for the purpose of increasing the effectiveness of ambulatory treatment of arterial hypertension]	A method of blood pressure self-control was used in a random sample of males aged 40-59, with persistently increased BP (greater than or equal to 160/95 mmHg at two visits), as identified by an epidemiologic study. Daily BP self-control exercised for 2-5 weeks as supplementary to conventional hypotensive treatment (hypothiazide and clophelin) contributed to the recovery of normal BP values within 4.57 +/- 0.69 days, on the average. After one year of such practice, the efficiency of treatment reached 46.8%, as compared to the 20% in the control group, while the disability rate decreased. Indications have been developed for out-patient application of the self-control techniques.
Various principles of treatment of hypertension with diuretics]	A scheme of prolonged continuous treatment has been developed for patients with essential hypertension (EH). It is based on the principle of differentiated application of the drug in individualized doses, and furosemide testing with subsequent switching to small doses of hypothiazide or some other diuretic agent conducive to the maintenance of the daily natriuresis/mean AP ratio at 1.9-2.0. A series of procedures are also proposed which prevent the development of refractory reaction to the drug or side-effects. The scheme was tested in the course of diuretic treatment of 110 in-patients with EH, stage IIA and IIB, of which 23 were subsequently treated for 6-12 months on an out-patient basis. It was noted that 22% of EH patients were highly sensitive to diuretics, 40-43% showed moderate sensitivity, so that 2-3 weeks' courses of small doses of beta-blockers or corinfar were needed 4-5 times a year to provide a good hypotensive effect, and 38-35% of patients showed poor sensitivity to diuretics and should preferably be treated with other hypotensive agents. The diuretic treatment according to the new regimen was associated with a reduced rate of side-effects.
Controlled multicenter study with quinapril, hydrochlorothiazide, and combination in patients with moderate to severe hypertension.	In an 8-week, double-blind, randomized, active-controlled, multicenter study with three parallel treatment groups, we compared the efficacy and safety of once-daily 20 mg quinapril plus 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) with each drug as monotherapy in patients with moderate to severe hypertension. Hypertensive out-patients with supine diastolic blood pressure (DBP) > or = 105 and < or = 120 mm Hg at the end of a 2- to 4-week placebo-baseline period were randomly assigned to one of the treatment groups. Of the 323 patients who were randomized to double-blind medication, 297 completed the study, but 6 patients were excluded for violations of protocol; therefore, statistical analysis was performed in 291 patients. Only 7 patients withdrew owing to lack of efficacy (2 receiving combination therapy). In all three treatment groups, clinically significant reductions in DBP were achieved. Combination therapy was statistically more effective than each component in both evaluable data and intent-to-treat analyses. The incidence of adverse events (AE) was 24% in the quinapril monotherapy group, 14% in the combination therapy group, and 11% in the HCTZ monotherapy group. Orthostatic hypotension with related symptoms was observed in 4 patients (2 receiving quinapril monotherapy, 1 receiving HCTZ monotherapy, and 1 receiving combination therapy). Once-daily quinapril plus HCTZ provided increased reduction of DBP as compared with the monotherapies and was well tolerated in patients with moderate to severe hypertension.
Gender effect on diuretic response to hydrochlorothiazide and furosemide.	Gender has been shown to elicit differences in drug disposition and response to therapeutic agents. We measured the diuretic response to oral hydrochlorothiazide, oral and intravenous furosemide in 6 male and 6 female normal volunteers. After fasting overnight, each subject received single doses of the individual diuretics or no treatment on 4 separate days. Total urine output was collected over the next 24 hours for volume measurement and determination of sodium and potassium concentrations. There was no statistically significant difference found between male and female subjects with respect to urine flow rate, sodium, and potassium excretion rates among the treatments. However, when natriuretic response was adjusted for mg/kg of the intravenous furosemide dose received, male subjects had a higher peak sodium excretion rate than the female subjects. Results of this study reveal a gender-related difference on the natriuretic response to diuretics. Further studies are necessary to identify if this gender-related difference is caused by differences in drug metabolism, disposition, or intrinsic diuretic responsiveness at the site of action.
