Nephrocalcinosis in glucose-galactose malabsorption: nephrocalcinosis and proximal tubular dysfunction in a young infant with a novel mutation of SGLT1.	We report an association of proximal renal tubular dysfunction in a 50-day-old girl with glucose-galactose malabsorption who was found to have nephrocalcinosis, but no sign of nephrolithiasis. A novel homozygous nonsense mutation at 267Arg-->stop (CGA-->TGA) in the Na(+)-dependent glucose transporter (SGLT1) was found in loop 5 connecting transmembrane segments 6 and 7, indicating the complete loss of glucose transport activity. This case indicates that hypercalcaemia, nephrocalcinosis and proximal tubular dysfunction may be seen in association with glucose-galactose malabsorption and that most of these abnormalities improve with a glucose-galactose-free diet.
Gene expression of nutrient transporters in the small intestine of chickens from lines divergently selected for high or low juvenile body weight.	Nutrient transporters in the small intestine are responsible for dietary nutrient assimilation; therefore, the expression of these transporters can influence overall nutrient status as well as the growth and development of the animal. This study examined correlated responses to selection in the developmental gene expression of PepT1, EAAT3, SGLT1, and GLUT5 in the small intestine of chickens from lines divergently selected for 48 generations for high (HH) or low (LL) 56-d BW and their reciprocal crosses (HL and LH). Duodenum, jejunum, and ileum were collected from male and female chicks on embryonic d 20, day of hatch with no access to feed, and d 3, 7, and 14 posthatch. Total RNA was extracted, and nutrient transporter expression was assayed by real-time PCR using the relative quantification method. In comparing male and female HH and LL chicks, there was a mating combination x age x sex interaction for PepT1 expression (P < 0.001), a main effect of sex for EAAT3 (P < 0.05) and SGLT1 (P < 0.001) expression, and an age x sex interaction for SGLT1 expression (P < 0.001). These results demonstrate a sexual dimorphism in the capacity to absorb nutrients from the intestine, which has implications for the poultry industry with regard to diet formulations for straight-run and sex-separate grow-out operations. Results from comparing male LL, LH, HL, and HH chicks indicate that selection for high or low juvenile BW may have influenced the gene expression profiles of these nutrient transporters in the small intestine, which may contribute to the overall differences in the growth and development of these lines of chickens.
D-glucose acts via sodium/glucose cotransporter 1 to increase NHE3 in mouse jejunal brush border by a Na+/H+ exchange regulatory factor 2-dependent process.	Oral rehydration solutions reduce diarrhea-associated mortality. Stimulated sodium absorption by these solutions is mediated by the Na(+)/H(+) hydrogen exchanger NHE3 and is increased by Na(+)-glucose co-transport in vitro, but the mechanisms of this up-regulated process are only partially understood.
Role of the transporter regulator protein (RS1) in the modulation of concentrative nucleoside transporters (CNTs) in epithelia.	SLC28 genes encode three plasma membrane transporter proteins, human concentrative nucleoside transporter (CNT)1, CNT2, and CNT3, all of which are implicated in the uptake of natural nucleosides and a variety of nucleoside analogs used in the chemotherapy of cancer and viral and inflammatory diseases. Mechanisms determining their trafficking toward the plasma membrane are not well known, although this might eventually become a target for therapeutic intervention. The transporter regulator RS1, which was initially identified as a short-term, post-transcriptional regulator of the high-affinity, Na(+)-coupled, glucose transporter sodium-dependent glucose cotransporter 1, was evaluated in this study as a candidate for coordinate regulation of membrane insertion of human CNT-type proteins. With a combination of studies with mammalian cells, Xenopus laevis oocytes, and RS1-null mice, evidence that RS1 down-regulates the localization and activity at the plasma membrane of the three members of this protein family (CNT1, CNT2, and CNT3) is provided, which indicates the biochemical basis for coordinate regulation of nucleoside uptake ability in epithelia and probably in other RS1-expressing cell types.
PER1 modulates SGLT1 transcription in vitro independent of E-box status.	The intestine demonstrates profound circadian rhythmicity in glucose absorption in rodents, mediated entirely by rhythmicity in the transcription, translation, and function of the sodium glucose co-transporter SGLT1 (Slc5a1). Clock genes are rhythmic in the intestine and have been implicated in the regulation of rhythmicity of other intestinal genes; however, their role in the regulation of SGLT1 is unknown. We investigated the effects of one clock gene, PER1, on SGLT1 transcription in vitro.
Caco 2 cell culture as intestinal epithelium model for hexose transport studying]	Distribution of SGLT1 and GLUT2 hexose transporters as well as that of fibrillar actin and tight junction proteins in cultured Caco2 cells incubated in medium with different hexose concentrations has been considered. Glucose absorption by the cells from incubation medium has been determined. Fibrillar actin was concentrated in the microvilli and closely to tight junction. The actin distribution was not dependent on the glucose concentration. There was no SGLT1 association with brush border actin and the transporter localization was not dependent on the concentration of hexose. GLUT2 was localized in the basal part of Caco2 cells after low concentration hexose load (2.5 mM). The transporter was colocalized with microvilli actin in the apical part of the cells after high concentration hexose load (25 mM). The tight junction proteins, occludin and claudin 1, 3, 4 were not dependent on glucose concentration. Claudin 2 was not detected in Caco2 cells. Caco2 cell culture can be used as a model for studying of hexose transport in small intestine epithelium.
