The management of hypertensive disease in black patients.	The ethnic differences in the incidence, pathophysiology and management of hypertensive disease, are particularly pertinent to the Black or Afro-Caribbean populations, who have a high prevalence of hypertension and associated complications, such as strokes and renal impairment. Our understanding of the underlying pathophysiology of hypertensive disease and the optimal treatment of hypertension in Black patients continues to evolve, especially with the introduction of new drugs and the need for prognostic data in this ethnic population. We review the management of hypertensive disease in the black population, emphasizing race-related differences in the pathophysiology of hypertension and the importance of tailored management in this group of patients, including sensible application of non-pharmacological measures with effective antihypertensive agents. For example, diuretics and calcium antagonists are suitable first-line agents in black hypertensives, whilst beta-blockers and the ACE inhibitors tend to be less effective at lowering blood pressure, due to the low renin state in these patients.
Comparison of acebutolol with and without hydrochlorothiazide versus carvedilol with and without hydrochlorothiazide in black patients with mild to moderate systemic hypertension.	In the present study, we assessed the antihypertensive efficacy of acebutolol 200 mg versus carvedilol 25 mg once daily, given as monotherapy for 3 months to 40 black patients (20 patients in each group, mean age 53+/-10 years, 24 women) with mean blood pressure (BP) during the day >90 and <110 mm Hg. Patients in whom blood pressure could not be controlled took medication, which was increased at 3-month intervals as follows: step 2, acebutolol 200 mg or carvedilol 25 mg plus hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg once daily; step 3, acebutolol 400 mg or carvedilol 50 mg plus hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg once daily. Overall, significant but modest BP reduction was achieved with both beta blockers at 3 months. In the acebutolol group, 24-hour BP decreased from 142+/-15/94+/-7 mm Hg to 138+/-16/89+/-8 mm Hg (p<0.005 for diastolic BP at 3 months vs baseline). Mean day BP decreased from 145+/-15/98+/-5 mm Hg to 140+/-14/93+/-7 mm Hg (p<0.05 for systolic BP and p<0.0005 for diastolic BP at 3 months vs. baseline). In the carvedilol group, 24-hour BP decreased from 145+/-11/93+/-6 to 138+/-16/87+/-9 mm Hg (p<0.05 for systolic BP and p<0.005 for diastolic BP at 3 months vs baseline). Mean day BP decreased from 149+/-10/99+/-5 to 141+/-16/91+/-87 mm Hg (p<0.05 for systolic BP and p<0.0005 for diastolic BP at 3 months vs baseline). At 12 months, most patients required combination therapy to achieve BP control. The control (mean day diastolic BP <90 mm Hg) and response (mean day diastolic BP decrease > or =10 mm Hg) rates at 12 months were 59% and 82% in the acebutolol and 78% and 78% in the carvedilol groups, respectively. In conclusion, acebutolol or carvedilol in combination with hydrochlorothiazide, rather than acebutolol or carvedilol alone, should be considered as first-line antihypertensive therapy in black patients with mild to moderate hypertension.
Lisinopril versus enalapril: evaluation of trough:peak ratio by ambulatory blood pressure monitoring.	In 34 out-patients with essential hypertension, the antihypertensive effect and the trough-to-peak ratios of once-daily enalapril or lisinopril were compared by ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) according to a crossover design. The drug dose was titrated and a thiazide diuretic was added if necessary to attain a target office BP of less than 140/90 mm Hg. Both drugs significantly lowered BP but the effect of lisinopril was greater (P < 0.009): day- and night-time mean BP fell from 152/98 and 135/84 mm Hg, respectively to 133/85 and 118/74 mm Hg with enalapril and to 129/83 and 116/70 mm Hg with lisinopril. BP goal was reached with an average dose of 18 mg enalapril with 8 mg hydrochlorothiazide and with 17 mg lisinopril combined with 6 mg diuretic. Trough:peak ratio values, which were calculated after Fourier analysis of ABPM data in individual patients, were independent of drug dose. The combination with the diuretic resulted in slightly higher trough:peak ratios than with ACE inhibitor monotherapy, but the difference was not significant. The median trough:peak ratio in patients when using enalapril-based therapy was 0.48 and, when taking lisinopril-based treatment, it was 0.65 (n = 28, P < 0.005). A significant correlation was found between trough:peak ratio and changes in daytime mean arterial pressure (MAP; Spearman r= 0.43) and night-time MAP (r= 0.66). When 24-h ABPM was performed starting 24 h after last drug intake, both ACE inhibitors still had a significant antihypertensive effect (P < 0.001), which was similar for both drugs. Eleven patients reported minor side effects. Four patients stopped ACE-inhibitor treatment because of cough. The data show that lisinopril has a longer duration of action than enalapril.
Double-blind comparison of eprosartan and enalapril on cough and blood pressure in unselected hypertensive patients. Eprosartan Study Group.	The effects of a new angiotensin receptor antagonist, eprosartan (200 or 300 mg b.i.d.) and enalapril (5-20 mg u.i.d.) on cough and blood pressure were compared in a 26-week, double-blind, randomised, parallel-group, multicentre, international study involving 528 patients with hypertension. Uptitration of doses was based on clinic blood pressure measurements during the first 12 weeks, after which hydrochlorothiazide (12.5-25 mg/day) could be added. The frequency and intensity of cough was assessed by a standardised questionnaire administered at each clinic visit. The primary end-point was the incidence of persistent, dry cough not due to upper respiratory infection; change in sitting diastolic blood pressure and overall incidence of cough were secondary end-points. During the first 12 weeks of double-blind therapy, enalapril treatment was associated with a 3.45-fold higher risk of definite cough (14/261 vs 4/259, P = 0.018). Overall cough incidence (from spontaneous reports from patients, or investigator's observation) was also more frequent with enalapril, as compared to eprosartan. Both agents reduced blood pressure significantly compared to baseline, although the eprosartan-treated group had a slightly higher response rate (defined as sitting diastolic blood pressure <90 mm Hg, or at least a 10 mm Hg reduction from baseline), both at end of titration (70.3% vs 62.6%, P < 0.05) and after 26 weeks (81.7% vs 73.5%, P= 0.018). These data suggest that, in unselected hypertensive patients, eprosartan is associated with less cough and a somewhat higher responder rate than enalapril.
Combined effect of captopril and thiazide diuretic on serum lipid profile in hypertensive women.	Hypertension has long been recognized as the major risk factor for the development of coronary disease. It was found that the combination of thiazide diuretic and ACE inhibitor has favorable antihypertensive and metabolic effect i.e. the combination reduces the levels of lipid.
Antihypertensive drugs in the elderly--the evidence of benefit.	Hypertension is a major cardiovascular risk factor. The commonest mode of death in the elderly is a cardiovascular one and so the treatment of hypertension in the elderly population is an important clinical objective. The choice of which antihypertensive drug to prescribe is expanding and an evidence-based approach should be applied. In recent years more studies have been carried out into the efficacy of the various antihypertensive drugs in the elderly. This review looks at the "hard" outcome data for each major drug class and their suitability for prescribing in the elderly. The differing drug classes are divided into 3 categories based on the weight of evidence supporting them--established, emerging, and add-on therapies. Currently, and until the publication of ongoing trials into newer therapies such as ACE inhibitors and calcium-channel blockers, outcome data suggests that thiazides remain the drug of first choice except where other therapies are indicated for coexistant conditions or more than one drug is required to achieve the desired response.
Pamidronate in a girl with chronic renal insufficiency dependent on parenteral nutrition.	A 10-year-old 40-kg African-American female with megacystis microcolon hypoperistalsis syndrome maintained on total parenteral nutrition (TPN), with a history of metabolic bone disease and renal insufficiency, was admitted with a Candida parapsilosis central venous line infection. During her 280-day hospital stay, she had multiple episodes of bacteremia and recurrent candidemia. Furthermore, she developed pathological fractures and hip displacement with osteomyelitis due to Enterobacter. Hypercalcemia and a history of nephrocalcinosis had prevented appropriate dosing of calcium prior to and during the first months of her hospital stay. Pamidronate and chlorothiazide were added to her regimen. The urinary calcium to creatinine ratio and ionized calcium decreased. The pamidronate dose was increased to 60 mg once a week and was well tolerated. Daily calcium was added to her TPN solution and was increased to 10 mEq/day by the time of discharge. We conclude that relatively large doses of pamidronate may be required in certain cases of refractory hypercalcemia and are well tolerated in children.
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia presenting with lactic acidosis and renal tubular dysfunction.	Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in children can rarely present with severe lactic acidosis in the absence of a high white blood cell count or other complications. Renal tubular dysfunction with hypercalciuria and hypocalcemia in the absence of pre-existing renal disease or concurrent medications has not been described at presentation in childhood ALL. The authors describe a 7-year-old boy with ALL presenting with severe lactic acidosis and renal tubular dysfunction, both of which were refractory to conventional management and resolved rapidly with appropriate chemotherapy.
Development of circulatory-renal limitations to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors identifies patients with severe heart failure and early mortality.	This study examined the hypothesis that patients who develop angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor intolerance attributable to circulatory-renal limitations (CRLimit) have more severe underlying disease and worse outcome.
Thiazide does not affect urine oxalate excretion.	We assessed the effects of thiazide treatment on urine oxalate excretion in patients with kidney stones.
Effects of losartan versus hydrochlorothiazide on indices of endothelial damage/dysfunction, angiogenesis and tissue factor in essential hypertension.	Abnormalities in endothelial function, angiogenesis and thrombogenesis are found in essential hypertension. Angiotensin II has been postulated as an agent involved in these processes. We hypothesized that the treatment of essential hypertension with the angiotensin II receptor antagonist, losartan, would affect endothelial damage/dysfunction, angiogenesis and coagulation, when compared to treatment with a diuretic.
Clinical characteristics of eight patients with congenital nephrogenic diabetes insipidus.	Congenital nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI) is characterized by the insensitivity of the distal nephron to arginine vasopressin. Clinical knowledge of this disease is based largely on case reports. For this study, we investigated the clinical findings of eight patients in terms of age at onset, age at diagnosis, main complaint, results of physical examination, the diagnosis, the effect of treatment, kidney function, and presence or absence of gene defects. The main complaints of all eight cases at initial examination were unknown fever, failure to thrive, and short stature. Polyuria and polydipsia are not always the chief complaints with congenital NDI. In one case, diabetes insipidus could be diagnosed based only on the results of a 5% hypertonic saline test. In six cases, we found abnormalities in the V2 receptor gene. Initially, trichlormethiazide therapy was shown to have a significant effect on polyuria; however, this effect decreased over time. In one patient with partial NDI, the addition of trichlormethiazide twice a day to 1-desamino-8-D-arginine vasopressin increased urine osmolality in the morning and caused nocturia to disappear. Results of 99mTc-diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid kidney scintigraphy revealed a slight decrease in glomerular filtration rate in three patients. No patient experienced serious renal dysfunction.
Rationale and design of a study comparing two fixed-dose combination regimens to reduce albuminuria in patients with type II diabetes and hypertension.	Diabetic nephropathy is the leading cause of end-stage renal disease (ESRD). The early stage of nephropathy is manifested by the presence of low levels of urinary albumin (microalbuminuria or urinary albumin excretion >or=30 and <299 mg/day). Albuminuria is a marker for development of nephropathy in type II diabetes and for increased cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Recent studies have demonstrated the importance of antihypertensive agents that inhibit the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone (RAA) system to reduce the risk and slow down the progression of renal disease. A new clinical trial, GUARD (Gauging Albuminuria Reduction With Lotrel in Diabetic Patients With Hypertension), is designed to compare the change in urinary albumin to creatinine ratio after 1 year of initial treatment with either amlodipine besylate/benazepril HCl or benazepril HCl/hydrochlorothiazide. Other objectives include a comparison of the proportion of patients who progress to overt diabetic nephropathy and the safety of these two combination therapies in these high-risk patients.
Different effects of antihypertensive regimens based on fosinopril or hydrochlorothiazide with or without lipid lowering by pravastatin on progression of asymptomatic carotid atherosclerosis: principal results of PHYLLIS--a randomized double-blind trial.	The Plaque Hypertension Lipid-Lowering Italian Study (PHYLLIS) tested whether (1) the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor fosinopril (20 mg per day) was more effective on carotid atherosclerosis progression than the diuretic hydrochlorothiazide (25 mg per day), (2) pravastatin (40 mg per day) was more effective than placebo when added to either hydrochlorothiazide or fosinopril, and (3) there were additive effects of ACE inhibitor and lipid-lowering therapies.
Reducing the risk for distal forearm fracture: preserve bone mass, slow down, and don't fall!	A case-control study of 1,150 female and male distal forearm cases and 2,331 controls of age 45 years and older was undertaken from 1996-2001 in five Northern California Kaiser Permanente Medical Centers. Most information on possible risk factors was obtained by an interviewer-administered questionnaire, supplemented by a few tests of lower extremity neurological function. Previous fractures since 45 years of age, a rough marker of osteoporosis, were associated with an increased risk (adjusted odds ratio [OR] [95% confidence interval] = 1.48 [1.20-1.84 ] per previous fracture). Several factors thought to protect against low bone mass were associated with a reduced risk, including current use of menopausal hormone therapy (adjusted OR = 0.60 [0.49-0.74]), ever used thiazide diuretics or water pills for at least 1 year (adjusted OR = 0.79 [0.64-0.97]), high body mass index (weight in kg/height in m2) (adjusted OR = 0.96 [0.89-1.04] per 5 unit increase), and high dietary calcium intake (adjusted OR = 0.88 [0.75-1.03] per 500 mg/day). Falls in the past year and conditions associated with falling, such as epilepsy and/or use of seizure medication (adjusted OR = 2.07 [1.35-3.17]) and a history of practitioner-diagnosed depression (adjusted OR = 1.40 [1.13-1.73]), were associated with increased risks. Having difficulty performing physical functions and all lower-extremity problems measured in this study were associated with reduced risks. The results from this and other studies indicate that distal forearm fractures tend to occur in people with low bone mass who are otherwise in relatively good health and are physically active, but who are somewhat prone to falling (particularly on an outstretched hand), and whose movements are not slowed by lower extremity problems and other debilities. Thus, measures to decrease fall frequency and to slow down the pace of relatively healthy people with low bone mass should lead to a lower frequency of distal forearm fracture.
Guidelines for the management of postmenopausal osteoporosis for GPs.	Since the last series of guidelines on the management of osteoporosis from Osteoporosis Australia was published in Australian Family Physician (October 2002), there have been further advances in our understanding of the treatment involved in both the prevention of bone loss and the management of established osteoporosis.
A novel epithelial sodium channel beta-subunit mutation associated with hypertensive Liddle syndrome.	Low-renin hypertension responsive to amiloride-thiazide therapy in a 4-year-old Afro-Haitian girl suggested Liddle syndrome. Urine steroid profiling substantiated the diagnosis and DNA analysis of the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) revealed a novel heterozygous beta ENaC mutation in the patient and in her hypertensive father. Liddle syndrome should be considered as a cause of hypertension in young children particularly with suppressed renin activity.
How much responsibility should heart failure nurses take?	This article examines the emerging role of the heart failure nurse and the responsibilities and educational and training requirements surrounding such a role. There may be variations in the role and its responsibilities in different health care settings. However the principles are similar and include: history taking, carrying out clinical assessment and making appropriate decisions about patient management within the context of practice. An example of this is nurse supervision of adjusting and titration of medication in a clinic setting or in the patient's own home. A major challenge to this role is defining the limitations and scope of practice. Patients with chronic heart failure (CHF) are generally a frail, elderly population, and often have significant other co-morbidities. They can be on multiple medications and are frequently prescribed sub-optimal doses of evidence-based medication. Many patients are not managed by specialists, thus creating a huge potential for improved management.
Combination therapy in the management of hypertension: focus on angiotensin receptor blockers combined with diuretics.	There is increasing evidence that combination therapy should be emphasized more than it is at present for the initial treatment of hypertensive patients. Recent guidelines acknowledge the value of combination therapy, although some treatment algorithms fail to echo this message. Observations from major clinical trials in the elderly, diabetics, stroke patients, and African Americans all indicate that combination therapy is necessary to control blood pressure in the majority of these patients. Several combination therapies such as an angiotensin II receptor blocker and a diuretic, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor with a diuretic, a beta blocker with a diuretic, or an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor with a calcium antagonist have been shown to be effective in patients who do not respond to monotherapy. The current review focuses on the newest such combination; an angiotensin II receptor blocker and a diuretic may have an added advantage of being well tolerated. Recent studies have shown that angiotensin II receptor blockers, given alone or combined with a diuretic, may prevent some cardiovascular outcomes independent of their blood pressure-lowering efficacy.
Diuretics.	Diuretics are the mainstay of therapies for many diseases, including hypertension congestive heart failure. While their use can be beneficial, many side effects and interactions are attributed to diuretic therapy. This chapter reviews the mechanism of action for the various diuretics and elucidates differences between classes. Major drug-drug and drug-nutrient interactions are examined with information on intervention and patient teaching. Several therapeutic dilemmas in the treatment of hypertension, renal failure, congestive heart failure, and pulmonary edemas are reviewed. With proper nursing assessment and intervention, the diuretics can have beneficial effects in hypertension therapies and the treatment of edema and cause a minimum of adverse drug experiences.
Perindopril versus captopril: efficacy and acceptability in an Italian multicenter trial.	The aim of this 3-month, double-blind, double-dummy, parallel group study was to compare the antihypertensive efficacy and acceptability of perindopril (4-8 mg/day) in 54 patients (30 males, 24 females, 25-68 years of age) and captopril (50-100 mg/day) in 54 patients (39 males, 15 females, 29-66 years of age) in the treatment of essential hypertension. In a subgroup of 38 patients a complete echocardiographic study was performed. The two groups had similar (ANOVA) blood pressure (BP), heart rate (HR), body mass index, and duration of hypertension. Supine and standing BP was significantly reduced by both drugs, without differences between them. Owing to poor control of BP, hydrochlorothiazide (25 mg/day) was added to 27% of patients on perindopril and to 41% of patients on captopril (p less than 0.05). Normalization of supine diastolic BP (less than or equal to 90 mm Hg) was obtained in 67% of patients on perindopril and in 47% of patients on captopril (p less than 0.01). No change in HR was detected. Only mild untoward effects were recorded. Left ventricular mass was significantly reduced by either drug, with no change in systolic function. In conclusion, perindopril and captopril, at these doses, were both well tolerated and on average reduced BP to a similar extent; however, treatment with perindopril showed that fewer patients needed the addition of a thiazide and BP became normal in a larger number of patients.
Morbidity and Mortality After Stroke, Eprosartan Compared with Nitrendipine for Secondary Prevention: principal results of a prospective randomized controlled study (MOSES).	In hypertensive stroke patients, for the same level of blood pressure control, eprosartan will be more effective than nitrendipine in reducing cerebrovascular and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.
Single administration of captopril and combined use with beta-blocker and/or thiazide diuretic in the treatment of essential hypertension.	Thirty-four patients with essential hypertension at WHO stage I or II were divided into three groups. Group I consisted of 22 cases who displayed normal renin activity (NR) or low renin activity (LR) and who received a single administration of captopril. Group II consisted of 6 cases given beta-blockers after administration of captopril. Group III consisted of 6 cases in whom beta-blocker was replaced with thiazide diuretics after administration of captopril alone. Blood pressure decreased significantly by captopril treatment alone in group I of the NR and LR subgroups (except for the diastolic blood pressure [DBP] of the NR subgroup) and fell below the target blood pressure (SBP of 165 mmHg and DBP of 95 mmHg) in 86% of the NR subgroup and 73% of the LR subgroup. Combined treatment with captopril and beta-blocker in Group II did not decrease blood pressure any lower than with captopril alone treatment and achieved the target blood pressure in only 50% of the patients. In group III, combined treatment with captopril and thiazide achieved the target blood pressure in 100% of the patients. Plasma renin activity (PRA) was increased by captopril but reduced by captopril in combination with beta-blocker. However, when beta-blocker was replaced with thiazide, PRA increased. The serum sodium concentration was significantly reduced in the LR subgroup after a single administration of captopril, but there was no other variation.
The Antihypertensive and Lipid Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial (ALLHAT) Heart Failure Validation Study: diagnosis and prognosis.	ALLHAT, a randomized, double-blind, active-controlled hypertension treatment trial in 42,418 patients, reported that a thiazide-type diuretic (chlorthalidone) was superior to a calcium channel blocker (amlodipine), an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (lisinopril), and an alpha1-blocker (doxazosin) in preventing the new onset of heart failure (HF). However, questions have been raised regarding the validity of the HF diagnosis.
Effect of medical management on recurrent stone formation following percutaneous nephrolithotomy.	Percutaneous nephrolithotomy is a commonly used procedure for treatment of large or complex renal calculi. In some instances postoperative residual stone fragments are an unavoidable result. Yet to our knowledge no study has examined the impact of medical management on stone formation in patients with or without residual fragments following percutaneous nephrolithotomy. Thus, we have conducted the first investigation of aggressive medical management following percutaneous nephrolithotomy and its impact on stone formation rates in patients with and without residual fragments.
Rationale for combination therapy in hypertension management: focus on angiotensin receptor blockers and thiazide diuretics.	Despite recognition that hypertension is a major risk factor for cardiovascular events and mortality, blood pressure control rates remain low in the US population. Reflecting clinical trial results, hypertension management guidelines assert the clinical benefit of achieving current blood pressure goals and indicate that most patients will require 2 or more drugs to reach goal. Well-designed drug combinations counter hypertension via complementary mechanisms that increase antihypertensive efficacy, potentially with lower rates of adverse events than higher dose monotherapy regimens. Lower adverse event rates, in turn, may contribute to greater adherence with treatment. The combination of a low-dose diuretic with agents that block the effects of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), such as angiotensin receptor blockers, has been found in numerous clinical trials to be highly effective for lowering blood pressure in patients with uncomplicated as well as high-risk hypertension, with a comparable favorable side effect profile compared with monotherapy. Moreover, agents that block the RAS are associated with a lower risk of new-onset diabetes mellitus than other antihypertensive classes. Complementary combinations of antihypertensive agents provide an efficient and effective approach to hypertension management.
Familial hypomagnesemia with hypercalciuria and nephrocalcinosis: report of three Turkish siblings.	Familial hypomagnesemia with hypercalciuria and nephrocalcinosis (FHHNC), an autosomal recessive renal tubular disorder is characterized by the impaired tubular reabsorption of magnesium and calcium in the thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle. This disease is caused by mutations in the claudin-16 gene (CLDN16), which encodes the tight junction protein, claudin-16. Claudin-16 belongs to the claudin family and regulates the paracellular transport of magnesium and calcium. Here, we report on three Turkish siblings with typical clinical features of FHHNC in association with the homozygous mutation Leu151Phe.
The regulation of salt transport and blood pressure by the WNK-SPAK/OSR1 signalling pathway.	It has recently been shown that the WNK [with-no-K(Lys)] kinases (WNK1, WNK2, WNK3 and WNK4) have vital roles in the control of salt homeostasis and blood pressure. This Commentary focuses on recent findings that have uncovered the backbone of a novel signal-transduction network that is controlled by WNK kinases. Under hyperosmotic or hypotonic low-Cl- conditions, WNK isoforms are activated, and subsequently phosphorylate and activate the related protein kinases SPAK and OSR1. SPAK and OSR1 phosphorylate and activate ion co-transporters that include NCC, NKCC1 and NKCC2, which are targets for the commonly used blood-pressure-lowering thiazide-diuretic and loop-diuretic drugs. The finding that mutations in WNK1, WNK4, NCC and NKCC2 cause inherited blood-pressure syndromes in humans highlights the importance of these enzymes. We argue that these new findings indicate that SPAK and OSR1 are promising drug targets for the treatment of hypertension, because inhibiting these enzymes would reduce NCC and NKCC2 activity and thereby suppress renal salt re-absorption. We also discuss unresolved and controversial questions in this field of research.
Time dependent effect of melatonin administration on lipid peroxidation, superoxide dismutase activity and melatonin concentration in the elderly patients with essential arterial hypertension]	Oxidative stress and melatonin (the pineal hormone) are involved in the pathogenesis of aging and aging-related diseases, including essential arterial hypertension. The aim of study was determination of time dependent effect of melatonin administration on malondialdehyde (MDA) concentration, Cu, Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD-1) activity and melatonin concentration in the elderly patients with essential arterial hypertension. The study was carried out on 11 patients with essential arterial hypertension (NT group, average 76.7 +/- 10 years), who were treated with thiazide diuretic. The reference group (K) was constituted 13 people without the chronic diseases (average 76.9 +/- 8 years). In the groups NT and K melatonin (Melatonin 5mg, LEKAM) one hour before sleep was administrated. MDA concentration and SOD-1 activity was performed before beginning of experiment and after 15 and after 30 days of the melatonin administration. Melatonin concentration was determined before beginning of experiment and after 30 days of the melatonin administration. Venous blood was taken from the cubital vein at 08.00 am. Melatonin concentration was determined in serum, and MDA content and SOD-1 acitivity were determined in erythrocytes. In NT group in comparison to K group non-significant higher MDA concentration (0.293 +/- 0.03 and 0.286 +/- 0.03 micromol/g Hb, respectively), lower SOD-1 activity (2591 +/- 304.1 and 2630 +/- 301 U/g Hb, respectively) and lower melatonin concentration (7.65 +/- 4.6 and 8.36 +/- 4.7 pg/ml, respectively) were observed. After 15 days of melatonin administration lower MDA concentration and higher SOD-1 activity: in NT group (0.250 +/- 0.03, p < 0.01 and 2757 +/- 299, NS, respectively) and in K group (0.264 +/- 0.03, NS and 3065 +/- 529, p < 0.02, respectively) were measured. After 30 days of supplementation MDA concentration further decreased in NT group (0.247 +/- 0.03, NS) and in K group (0.240 +/- 0.03, p < 0.002). However, after 30 days of melatonin administration in comparison to the results of 15 days the statistically non-significant differences of SOD-1 activity, either in NT group (2680 +/- 332 U/g Hb) and in K group (3012 +/- 417 U/g Hb) were observed. After 30 days of supplementation melatonin concentration increased in NT group (19.57 +/- 11.7 pg/ml, p < 0.01) and in K group (19.33 +/- 17.8 pg/ml, p < 0.05). The results may indicate on the intensification of oxidative stress in elderly patients with essential arterial hypertension and on the beneficial antioxidant effect of melatonin, already after 15 days of supplementation. This results may have indicates on the therapeutic implications.
Effect of thiazide-based therapy on serum alkaline phosphatase. Hypertension Detection and Follow-up Group.	This study reports a correlation of alkaline phosphatase (AP) with diastolic blood pressure (DBP), and a reduction of alkaline phosphatase after chlorthalidone therapy that reached a nadir at three years of therapy, then gradually returned toward, but not reaching, baseline values. The data is from the baseline examination and follow-up of 3928 initially untreated stepped-care patients in the Hypertension Detection and Follow-up Program. In multiple regression analysis, both age and DBP were significantly correlated with increased AP in males and females. After initiation of therapy with chlorthalidone, AP levels fell progressively until the third year, when they were reduced by 11 +/- 15 IU in the males and 14 +/- 15 IU in the females. The data are compatible with the interpretation that thiazide-induced reduction in urinary calcium excretion has led to a more positive calcium balance and reduction of bone turnover, and suggests that a beneficial effect of thiazide-based antihypertensive therapy could be decreased osteoporosis.
Modeling transport in the kidney: investigating function and dysfunction.	Mathematical models of water and solute transport in the kidney have significantly expanded our understanding of renal function in both health and disease. This review describes recent theoretical developments and emphasizes the relevance of model findings to major unresolved questions and controversies. These include the fundamental processes by which urine is concentrated in the inner medulla, the ultrastructural basis of proteinuria, irregular flow oscillation patterns in spontaneously hypertensive rats, and the mechanisms underlying the hypotensive effects of thiazides. Macroscopic models of water, NaCl, and urea transport in populations of nephrons have served to test, confirm, or refute a number of hypotheses related to the urine concentrating mechanism. Other macroscopic models focus on the mechanisms, role, and irregularities of renal hemodynamic control and on the regulation of renal oxygenation. At the mesoscale, models of glomerular filtration have yielded significant insight into the ultrastructural basis underlying a number of disorders. At the cellular scale, models of epithelial solute transport and pericyte Ca2+ signaling are being used to elucidate transport pathways and the effects of hormones and drugs. Areas where further theoretical progress is conditional on experimental advances are also identified.
Hypertension prevalence and prescribing trends in older US adults: 1999-2004.	To describe hypertension trends in US adults aged 65 years and older using Medicare Current Beneficiary Survey (MCBS) data, a cross-sectional, nationally representative health examination survey from MCBS files between 1999 and 2004 was investigated. Overall, 62% of beneficiaries, or an estimated 20 million US adults aged 65 years and older, were hypertensive as extrapolated from MCBS data. From 1999 to 2004, the prevalence rate of hypertension increased from 59% to 65% (P<.001). Nonwhite persons and women had a higher prevalence of hypertension than whites and men. A history of diabetes mellitus, prior myocardial infarction, coronary artery disease, or stroke was significantly associated with hypertension treatment. In addition, significant geographic variation in treatment was noted. There was a significant increase in hypertension prevalence in older Medicare beneficiaries from 1999 to 2004. Women, patients 85 years and older, and nonwhite patients were less likely to be treated with antihypertensive medications, and significant geographic variation existed in treatment.
Impact of ALLHAT publication on antihypertensive prescribing patterns in Regione Emilia-Romagna, Italy.	Studies from the US and Canada observed changes in antihypertensive prescribing patterns in accordance with Antihypertensive and Lipid-Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial (ALLHAT) study findings immediately after the study's publication, but little is known about the impact of ALLHAT in Italy. The objective of this study was to examine antihypertensive prescribing patterns in Regione Emilia-Romagna (RER), Italy, following the publication of the ALLHAT main results.
Nephrolithiasis-associated bone disease: pathogenesis and treatment options.	Nephrolithiasis remains a formidable health problem in the United States and worldwide. A very important but underaddressed area in nephrolithiasis is the accompanying bone disease. Epidemiologic studies have shown that osteoporotic fractures occur more frequently in patients with nephrolithiasis than in the general population. Decreased bone mineral density and defects in bone remodeling are commonly encountered in patients with calcium nephrolithiasis. The pathophysiologic connection of bone defects to kidney stones is unknown. Hypercalciuria and hypocitraturia are two important risk factors for stone disease, and treatments with thiazide diuretics and alkali, respectively, have been shown to be useful in preventing stone recurrence in small prospective trials. However, no studies have examined the efficacy of these agents or other therapies in preventing continued bone loss in calcium stone formers. This manuscript reviews the epidemiology, pathophysiology, and potential treatments of bone disease in patients with nephrolithiasis.
Renal function in advanced heart failure.	Despite recent advances with neurohormonal antagonists and devices, the prognosis of patients with advanced heart failure (HF) remains grave. Renal dysfunction is a common comorbid condition in HF and is associated with adverse outcomes. Current evidence indicates that intrinsic renal disease and inflammation in HF makes the kidney susceptible to hemodynamic compromise and congestion and contributes to a great extent to the development of renal dysfunction. Relief of congestion requires combination treatment with diuretics, neurohormonal antagonists, and occasionally vasodilators as well as inotropes. However, high doses of diuretics may accelerate the development of renal dysfunction by increasing neurohumoral activity and inducing renal structural and functional changes. Ultrafiltration should be reserved for patients with true diuretic resistance. Finally, early identification of the "patient at risk" remains a challenging issue and is limited by the currently used conventional parameters of renal function. However, novel biomarkers of acute kidney ischemia and/or injury are emerging and promise to become a diagnostic option for this patient population.
Combination therapy for hypertension in patients with CKD: a subanalysis of the Combination Therapy of Hypertension to Prevent Cardiovascular Events trial.	The Combination Therapy of Hypertension to Prevent Cardiovascular Events (COPE) trial was a multicenter, randomized, three-arm comparative study (N=3293) undertaken to determine the optimal combination therapy, based on the occurrence of cardiovascular events in patients treated with an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB), a β-blocker (BB) or a thiazide diuretic (TD) in addition to the calcium antagonist benidipine as baseline medication. This subanalysis was conducted to compare the efficacy of three combination therapies in a subset of 834 patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) (287 patients treated with benidpine-ARB, 283 patients treated with benidipine-BB and 264 patients treated with benidipine-TD). The incidence of composite cardiovascular events as the primary end point did not differ among these three groups. The incidence of hard end points and cerebrovascular events among these groups did not differ either, although the incidence among all patients in the COPE trial was lower in the benidipine-TD group than in the benidipine-BB group. The incidence of new-onset diabetes mellitus was higher in the benidipine-TD group than in the benidipine-ARB group among patients with CKD. The estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) was maintained even after 12 months of treatment in patients with a baseline eGFR <60 ml min(-1) per 1.73 m(2) regardless of the treatment group, although the eGFR decreased over time in all patients in the three groups. In conclusion, in patients with CKD, all of the tested combination therapies demonstrated comparable efficacy in terms of prevention of cardiovascular events as well as maintenance of eGFR.
Pharmacologic treatment of urinary stones]	To describe the pharmacotherapy of urinary lithiasis.
Effects of thiazide diuretic on vascular eicosanoid system of spontaneously hypertensive rats.	To assess the role of the vascular eicosanoid system in thiazide therapy, we examined the aortic eicosanoid system of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) treated with trichloromethiazide for 2 weeks. The blood pressure reduction caused by the thiazide treatment was associated with a significant decrease in vascular vasodepressor prostacyclin (PGI2) generation, whereas neither nifedipine nor captopril treatment lowered vascular PGI2 generation. The thiazide diuretic directly lowered PGI2 synthase activity in cultured vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC), thereby decreasing PGI2 generation in the VSMC and probably in the aortic wall. This direct inhibitory effect on vascular PGI2 generation was not observed with either furosemide or indapamide. Thus, vascular PGI2 generation is reduced with trichloromethiazide, partly through its direct inhibition of PGI2 synthase; this has possible relevance to the non-beneficial effects of thiazide diuretics on the vascular sclerotic changes.
Recurrent juvenile pancreatitis in dermatomyositis]	The authors present the case history of an 11-year-old girl who suffered from the rarely occurring grave juvenile dermatomyositis associated with recurring pancreatitis. Factors which may cause pancreatitis: juvenile dermatomyositis as underlying disease, steroid-, cytostatic- and thiazide diuretic treatment are analysed.
Antihypertensive therapy and the concept of total cardiovascular protection.	Drug-induced reduction of elevated blood pressure decreases cardiovascular mortality and morbidity in patients with moderate and severe hypertension. Furthermore, antihypertensive drug studies in mild hypertensive subjects (diastolic blood pressure 90 to 104 mm Hg) have shown protection against stroke, left ventricular hypertrophy, congestive heart failure and progression of renal damage, as well as improved patient longevity. The Hypertension Detection and Follow-up Program trial, recently carried out in the U.S., documented reduced coronary artery disease events (fatal and nonfatal) in special drug-treated patients with mild hypertension. From the standpoint of practical management and considering the ubiquity of essential hypertension, a modified stepped-care regimen advocating initial drug therapy with a beta blocker and addition of low-dose thiazide diuretic when necessary constitutes a judicious approach for widespread application. Although there are 8 orally active beta blockers currently approved in the U.S. for clinical use in systemic hypertension, only acebutolol possesses all of the salutary pharmacologic properties of cardioselectivity, intrinsic sympathomimetic activity and hydrophilicity, thereby making this compound an effective and safe beta-blocking agent for first-order management of a broad segment of the hypertensive population.
Treatment of systemic hypertension.	Most patients with high blood pressure (BP) can be managed by using one of 4 classes of compounds: a diuretic, beta blocker, converting enzyme inhibitor or calcium antagonist. It is becoming clear, however, that different patients respond to different drugs and that side effects also vary from 1 patient to another. In many patients in whom 1 drug is not sufficient to lower BP, the combination of a low dose of 2 drugs, particularly a diuretic combined with a beta blocker or a converting enzyme inhibitor, is an effective way of decreasing BP further. An understanding of the mechanisms whereby drugs lower BP and why they are additive with some drugs and not with others is clearly important in the more rational use of drugs. The finding that much lower doses of drugs can be used is also important; the combination of a low dose of 2 drugs may not only be more effective in lowering BP but also have less side effects than a higher dose of a single drug. In patients with more resistant hypertension that is not controlled by 1 or 2 drugs combined, the next logical step is to add a third drug. Before doing this, however, it is important to check that the patient is complying with treatment and to consider secondary causes. Ideally, such patients should be referred to someone with a special interest in high BP as they are more likely to have an underlying cause for their hypertension.
Efficacy and tolerability of enalapril compared to altizide combined with spironolactone in patients with moderate arterial hypertension]	The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy and safety of enalapril and a combination of a thiazide diuretic (altizide) and a diuretic that reduce potassium excretion (spironolactone), in patients presenting moderate essential hypertension. The four-month, double-blind study of two parallel groups involved 20 patients (12 males, 8 females) of mean age 54 years. All patients first received placebo for 15 days. Subsequently, 10 patients received 20 mg enalapril per day and 10 patients 15 mg altizide combined with 25 mg spironolactone in the same tablet. Blood pressure was measured every five minutes for 30 minutes with an automatic apparatus (Dynamap 845), before administration of placebo, before treatment and one, two and three months after treatment. There was no significant change of pulse rate with enalapril or with the diuretic combination. Both treatments produced an identical significant drop in systolic pressure. On the other hand enalapril seemed more efficacious in reducing diastolic pressure at the fourth month: respective pressures 98.2 +/- 13.3 mmHg and 81.0 +/- 8.5 mmHg (p less than 0.005) with enalapril, 98.6 +/- 7.4 mmHg and 86.0 +/- 6.1 mmHg (p less than 0.001) with the diuretic association (17% versus 12%, p less than 0.05). Safety was good with both medicinal preparations and the few side-effects noted did not necessitate withdrawal of treatment.
The Safety After Fifty Evaluation trial: evaluation of the safety and efficacy of antihypertensive therapy with metoprolol in patients 50 to 75 years of age: study design.	Hypertension increases in prevalence with advancing age and is a major risk factor for the development of cardiovascular disease in elderly patients. However, the presence of coexisting illness, altered drug metabolism, enhanced susceptibility to drug side effects, and physiologic changes such as reduced plasma volume and lower plasma renin levels make treatment of hypertension in elderly patients more difficult. Nonetheless, several studies have now demonstrated the beneficial effects of antihypertensive drug therapy in older patients. The Safety After Fifty Evaluation trial was designed to determine the short-term efficacy and tolerability of once-daily therapy with the cardioselective beta-blocker metoprolol alone or in combination with hydrochlorothiazide in the treatment of mild hypertension in patients 50 to 75 years of age. A total of 24,816 patients were enrolled in the trial by 2821 practicing physicians from across the United States. This article describes the details of the Safety After Fifty Evaluation study design. Results of the trial will be reported separately.
Diuretics in hypertension.	Thiazide diuretics have been the 'mainstay' of antihypertensive therapy for three decades. They reduce arterial pressure, initially through a fall in plasma volume and cardiac output. However, in time, output returns towards pretreatment levels, thereby accounting for a long-term fall in pressure through decreased vascular resistance. At present, the precise mechanism for this reduced resistance remains unknown. Although the fall in arterial pressure is not due to direct vasodilation, it is not unlikely that it may operate, in part, indirectly through reduced vascular responsiveness, induced prostacyclins and other mechanisms. Attendant unwanted biochemical effects include hypokalaemia, hyperuricaemia, hyperglycaemia, reduced renal excretory function and hyperlipidaemia. Orthostatic hypotension and, of more recent emphasis, sexual impotence are among the more common side effects. A question has been raised as to whether hyperlipidaemia might explain the failure of some multicentre studies to prevent myocardial infarction or progression of coronary heart disease but this is more a 'non issue' although it must be considered. The present data continue to support the conclusion that diuretics are safe, effective and economical for the treatment of hypertension, and they remain a major cornerstone of initial as well as multipharmacological therapy, particularly in volume-dependent forms of essential hypertension, steroid-dependent hypertensions, renal parenchymal disease and in special patient groups (black, obese and elderly.
Mineralocorticoid-induced kaliuresis in type-II pseudohypoaldosteronism.	Type II pseudohypoaldosteronism is an uncommonly reported disorder. The authors recently evaluated a patient who in many respects appeared to have this syndrome. He had hyperkalemia, a normal glomerular filtration rate, "normal" serum and urinary aldosterone levels, and low plasma renin activity. In addition, he had a hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis and hypertension. Fractional excretion of potassium was reduced in response to sodium chloride loading. However, renal potassium excretion in response to administration of sodium sulfate was normal. Thiazide diuretic restored the serum potassium, the low bicarbonate, and blood pressure to normal. He developed marked natriuresis and kaliuresis in response to high-dose exogenous mineralocorticoid. The magnitude of the kaliuretic response achieved to exogenous mineralocorticoid has been reported only once previously.
Rationale for combination therapy.	Cardiovascular morbidity and mortality is higher in treated hypertensive patients than in normotensive subjects of the same age, sex and from the same populations. A possible and logical explanation for this could be that arterial pressure in treated hypertensive patients usually is significantly higher than in matched normotensive subjects. For these reasons it would appear logical to identify a therapeutic goal in the treatment of hypertension: to obtain normotensive blood pressure levels. In order to obtain this goal, combined treatment with more than one antihypertensive drug would appear to be required. Therapeutic combinations consisting of an ACE-inhibitor plus a diuretic or an ACE-inhibitor plus a calcium antagonist constitute two examples of antihypertensive drug combinations that would appear to offer potent antihypertensive efficacy and good tolerability.
Pharmacologic treatment of calcium calculi.	Selective pharmacologic therapy of calcium nephrolithiasis is highly effective in preventing new stone formation. A remission rate of greater than 80 per cent and overall reduction in individual stone formation rate of greater than 90 per cent can be obtained in patients with calcium nephrolithiasis. In patients with mild-to-moderate severity of stone disease, virtually total control of stone disease can be achieved as evidenced by remission rates of greater than 95 per cent. The need for stone removal may be dramatically reduced by an effective prophylactic program. Selective pharmacologic therapy of calcium nephrolithiasis also encompasses the advantages of overcoming the nonrenal manifestations of conditions that cause stone formation as well as averting certain side effects that may be caused by nonselective medical therapy. Despite these advantages, selective medical therapy clearly cannot provide total control of stone disease. A satisfactory response requires continued, dedicated compliance by patients to the recommended program and a commitment of the physician to provide long-term follow-up and care.
Thiazide diuretics for the treatment of children with idiopathic hypercalciuria and hematuria.	We describe our experience in 14 children with idiopathic hypercalciuria and hematuria who received a finite course of thiazide diuretics. Thiazides reduced urinary calcium excretion and resolved hematuria in all cases. Serum calcium concentration was not altered with treatment. Serum potassium concentration decreased, and total carbon dioxide content and uric acid concentrations increased in response to therapy but these changes did not necessitate discontinuation of treatment. Thiazides were discontinued electively after 16 +/- 15 months of treatment (range 3 to 40 months). Six children maintained normal urinary calcium excretion, while 8 displayed excessive calcium excretion for 16 +/- 4 months after treatment was stopped. Renal calculi were not detected in any patient during this interval but hematuria recurred in 4 children. These findings suggest that thiazides are safe and effective for resolving hypercalciuria and hematuria. Thiazides may be discontinued safely in some children, while others will require further treatment courses or prolonged continuous therapy.
The sportsman with hypertension.	The widespread use of antihypertensive therapy in a large number of active Australians has prompted a review of the effects of sporting activity on hypertension and its treatment.
The older patient with hypertension.	Hypertension in older patients results from changes in the arterial tree. There should be positive indications for treatment and the drugs used should be free from undesirable side effects, especially postural hypotension. Very old people with hypertension rarely require medication.
Xipamide and cyclopenthiazide in essential hypertension--comparative effects on blood pressure and plasma potassium.	1 The blood pressure lowering effect of xipamide, a non-thiazide diuretic given for 6 weeks was compared in a randomised cross-over trial with that of cyclopenthiazide in 14 patients with essential hypertension. 2 Xipamide 10 or 20 mg given once daily was as effective in lowering supine blood pressure as daily cyclopenthiazide 0.5 mg. There was no difference in the blood pressure lowering effect of 10 mg xipamide daily for 2 weeks compared to 20 mg daily given for a further 4 weeks. 3 Plasma potassium was reduced by both drugs, but markedly more after both 10 mg and 20 mg xipamide than after cyclopenthiazide 0.5 mg. By the sixth week of treatment 13 of 14 patients on xipamide but only 6 of 14 on cyclopenthiazide has plasma potassium concentrations of, or less than, 3.5 mmol/l. The fall in plasma potassium was significantly greater and the final plasma potassium concentration was significantly lower after either dose of xipamide than after cyclopenthiazide. 4 These results suggest that 10 mg or 20 mg of xipamide daily is effective in lowering blood pressure in hypertensive patients but is associated with hypokalaemia. In view of recent evidence linking diuretic-induced hypokalaemia with cardiac dysrhythmias in patients with essential hypertension we would suggest that thiazide diuretics be used in preference to xipamide for the routine management of essential hypertension. Our results also suggest that the currently recommended dose of xipamide (20 mg) for the treatment of hypertension is excessive, and lower amounts than 10 mg per day might possibly be as effective in lowering blood pressure with less adverse metabolic consequences.
Reserpine and breast cancer. A community-based longitudinal study of 2,000 hypertensive women.	To supplement several case-control studies questioning whether use of reserpine is associated with occurrence of breast cancer, we conducted a longitudinal study of nearly 2,000 hypertensive women residing in Rochester, Minn. Exposure to antihypertensive agents and subsequent incidence of breast cancer were ascertained. Expected numbers of cases, derived from local population data and from the Connecticut Tumor Registry, were compared with the numbers of cases observed in exposure groups of interest. No evidence was found of any association of reserpine use, thiazide use, or untreated hypertension with subsequent occurrence of breast cancer in these hypertensive women. In addition, several issues were investigated that warrant consideration in evaluating reports published to date, especially before conclusions are drawn as to the questionable contention that reserpine has caused breast cancer in women.
Klotrix and other slow-release potassium tablets.	Most hypertensive patients who take diuretics that increase potassium excretion can avoid hypokalemia by eating foods high in potassium or taking liquid potassium supplements. Slow-release preparations of potassium chloride are convenient but can cause serious gastrointestinal injury.
Vascular wall thickness in hypertension: the Perindopril Regression of Vascular Thickening European Community Trial: PROTECT.	A high prevalence of increased intima/media thickness of the arterial wall has been documented in hypertension. These alterations in vascular wall structure may be potent determinants for the promotion of the development of atherosclerosis. Direct histologic data from animal models of hypertension, and indirect data from hypertensive patients, have demonstrated a marked regression of increased intima/media thickness by angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition. Long-term effects of ACE inhibition on structural wall changes in humans have not been examined. Therefore, a multicenter, randomized, double-blind European trial was designed to compare the effects of the ACE inhibitor perindopril and the diuretic hydrochlorothiazide in slowing or reversing progression of increased intima/media thickness of carotid and femoral arteries in hypertensive patients. A total of 800 patients at 17 clinical centers in 7 European countries, aged 35-65 years, with hypertension and ultrasonographically proven intima/media thickness > or = 0.8 mm of the common carotid artery will be randomly assigned to receive in a double-blind fashion either perindopril or hydrochlorothiazide and will be followed for 24 months. High resolution duplex sonography will be used to quantify intima/media thickness at baseline and twice a year during follow-up. A change of 0.1 mm of intima/media thickness from baseline is considered to be detectable, and the standard deviations of the changes from baseline are expected not to be higher than 0.2 mm. The primary endpoint of the study is the comparison of changes in intima/media thickness of the common carotid artery.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Cardiovascular pharmacotherapy in old age: How beneficial is it? What does it cost?]	Because of their high morbidity and mortality, elderly people benefit most from drugs with a proven effect on disease complications and premature death. Thiazides, beta adrenergic blocking drugs, oral anticoagulants and aspirin are drugs that satisfy such criteria. These medications are comparatively well tolerated and cheap. They should not be neglected in favour of newer drugs with a less complete performance record.
A new urinary test for stone "activity".	Rapid evaporation of urine to osmolarity 1200 results in a high incidence of envelope Wedellite and calcium phosphate crystals. The Wedellite crystals closely resemble those seen in untreated urine samples of stone formers. The incidence of crystalluria produced by these tests is higher in the stone formers than in the normal subjects, reduced by thiazides and increased by cellulose phosphate; combined thiazide and cellulose phosphate therapy was most effective in reducing crystalluria. Simple calcium and oxalate concentration products were calculated and did not correlate well with incidence of calcium oxalate crystalluria. Although the product is important, inhibitors of crystal formation must be equally important. It is postulated, but not proven, that the evaporation tests may indicate normal subjects at risk to stone formation when exposed to chronic dehydration and whether a stone former is still metabolically active.
Hereditary tubulo-interstitial nephropathy]	Most of the hereditary tubulointerstitial nephropathy see the cyst formation in the kidney. Among them, juvenile nephronophthisis and medullary sponge kidney, which primarily involve the tubule structures of the renal medulla, are associated with variable enlargement of the distal tubules and collecting ducts and with interstitial fibrosis and inflammation of a variable extent. Juvenile nephronophthisis features sodium wasting, anemia, and renal failure. Eighty % of juvenile nephronophthisis is an autosomal recessive disorder, and it also has a variant form which is an autosomal dominant disease. A gene for autosomal recessive juvenile nephronophthisis is now mapped to 2q13, although no linkage has been observed in autosomal dominant variant to this region. Thus genetic heterogeneity between autosomal recessive variant and autosomal dominant variant of juvenile nephronophthisis is suggested. Juvenile nephronophthisis progress to end-stage renal failure. In contrast, medullary sponge kidney, which features nephrocalcinosis and urinary stones, is a relatively benign condition and occurs occasionally in the same family.
The 'stone clinic effect': myth or reality?	Sixty-six active recurrent stone formers (RSF), i.e., with at least one stone annually over 3 years prior to the first examination at our stone clinic, were retrospectively evaluated. All received specific drug metaphylaxis which was discontinued after 5.5 +/- 2.1 years (period 1). They were reclassified according to the above definition into active and inactive RSF and were then left on a general metaphylactic regimen with regular urological follow-up every 6 months (period 2). 32 patients observed these recommendations for 5.7 +/- 2.6 years (group 1), 34 did not. 20 of these 34 could be reexamined after 6.3 +/- 2.2 years (group 2). Group 1 comprised 10 active and 22 inactive, group 2 comprised 1 active and 19 inactive RSF. While the recurrence rates among the inactive RSF of groups 1 and 2 decreased significantly during period 2, a statistically significant difference between them was not observed. Conversely, there was only a slight reduction of the recurrence rate in the active RSF. Both findings argue against a stone clinic effect. Interviews of the patients showed that stone formation was periodical for a mean of 12 +/- 8 years, after which it gradually faded out. This period is termed 'phase of regular stone formation' and appears to be an autonomous process that cannot usually be influenced by metaphylactic measures. This could explain the wide variability of reported success rates for the various metaphylactic regimens, as they would merely reflect the number of stone formers who are in their phase of regular stone formation.
Body size, estrogen use and thiazide diuretic use affect 5-year radial bone loss in postmenopausal women.	Understanding factors associated with more rapid bone mineral loss among aging women is important for establishing preventive strategies for intervention. This study reports factors associated with the 5-year change in radial bone mineral density (BMD) determined prospectively in 435 women aged 55-80 years at baseline. The baseline study included measurement of radial BMD (gm/cm2) by single photon densitometry and personal interview. The baseline protocol was replicated 5 years later in a follow-up study. Women with a lower baseline weight or Quetelet index, smaller triceps skinfold and less arm muscle area had significantly greater 5-year bone loss (p = 0.001). Current users of estrogens had less radial bone loss (2.8% vs 7.3%, p = 0.0005) than women not currently using estrogens. Current users of estrogen had significantly less 5-year loss if use had been for 5 years or longer (-1.0% vs -6.9%, p = 0.05). Current users of the thiazide class of medications had less 5-year radial bone loss (5.0% vs 7.4%, p = 0.0035) than women without current thiazide use. Baseline dietary calcium, alcohol consumption and smoking were not associated with BMD change. This suggests that greater body size, and current use of estrogens or thiazide antihypertensives are associated with less radial bone mass loss in a 5-year period among postmenopausal women.
Is insulin resistance a predictor of the blood pressure response to anti-hypertensive treatment?	It is a general impression that the blood pressure (BP) response during monotherapy in hypertensive subjects is highly variable. As decreased insulin sensitivity is a frequent finding in hypertensive patients, the following study was performed to evaluate if the degree of insulin sensitivity could predict the BP response to different types of anti-hypertensive treatments. Insulin sensitivity was evaluated by the hyperinsulinaemic euglycaemic clamp technique before initiation of treatment with beta-adrenergic blockers (n = 181), thiazide diuretics (n = 60), ACE inhibitors (n = 73), non-dihydropyridine calcium antagonists (n = 38), dihydropyridine calcium antagonists (n = 26) or alpha-1 antagonists (n = 39) over periods of 3-6 months in hypertensive patients. The proportion of poor responders, defined as a reduction in the diastolic blood pressure (DBP) of < 3 mm Hg ranged between 8% and 30% in the different groups despite similar pretreatment DBPs (100-102 mm Hg). A decreased pretreatment insulin sensitivity was related to a poor DBP treatment response in the thiazide-treated group only (r = -0.33, P < 0.05). In this group also obesity, as evaluated by body mass index (BMI), was associated with a poor BP response (r = 0.28, P < 0.05), while obesity was a predictor of a favourable reduction in DBP in the group treated with non-dihydropyridine calcium antagonists (r = -0.34, P < 0.05). These associations were still significant when pretreatment DBP was taken into account in multiple regression analysis. Neither age nor sex were found to be significant predictors of BP response in any of the treatment groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Influences of educational interventions and adverse news about calcium-channel blockers on first-line prescribing of antihypertensive drugs to elderly people in British Columbia.	The way in which dissemination of evidence changes medical practice needs to be better understood. Controversy about calcium-channel blockers (CCB) in the past 3 years has provided a natural experiment, enabling assessment of the impact of media stories, a national warning letter, a teleconference, small group workshops, and newsletters on first-line prescribing of antihypertensive drugs.
Reduction of cardiovascular structural changes by nifedipine GITS in essential hypertensive patients.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of the calcium antagonist Nifedipine GITS in a double-blind, randomized comparison with the diuretic hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) on reduction of left ventricular (LV) mass and minimal vascular resistance in a group of essential hypertensives with left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH). The effects on blood pressure and on echocardiographic LV functional parameters were also analysed. After two months of randomized treatment with Nifedipine GITS or HCTZ, if diastolic blood pressure was > 90 mmHg, a combination of the two drugs was given and was continued for 24 weeks. M-mode, 2D-guided echocardiography was used to measure LV mass index (LVMI) according to the "Penn convention". Minimal vascular resistance was measured in the forearm, from arterial pressure and maximal blood flow, using a strain gauge plethysmography. All examinations were performed before and after 8 and 24 weeks of treatment. Changes in LVMI were analysed at 8 weeks and at 24 weeks in patients receiving monotherapy ("according to protocol" analysis), and also at the end of treatment in patients taking Nifedipine or HCTZ monotherapy or the combination of the two drugs ("intention to treat" analysis). Both Nifedipine and HCTZ significantly reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure (p < 0.001), without any significant difference between the two drug treatments. Heart rate was not significantly modified by either treatment. A progressive decrease in LVMI was observed after 8 and 24 weeks of treatment with Nifedipine monotherapy (ANOVA, p = 0.03), while the decrease in LVMI during HCTZ treatment did not progress further at 24 weeks (ANOVA, p = 0.49). A significant reduction of minimal vascular resistance was observed in patients treated with Nifedipine GITS monotherapy (ANOVA, p = 0.001), but not in the HCTZ group (ANOVA, p = 0.06). Comparison of changes of forearm minimal vascular resistance, considering baseline values, could demonstrate a greater effect during Nifedipine monotherapy as compared to HCTZ monotherapy. In conclusion, in a group of hypertensive patients with LVH, treatment for 24 weeks with Nifedipine GITS alone or in combination with HCTZ induced a significant reduction in LVMI and of forearm vascular structural changes, as evaluated by minimal vascular resistance. The decrease of minimal vascular resistance was significantly greater in patients treated with Nifedipine monotherapy, as compared to those given HCTZ.
Comparison of active treatment and placebo in older Chinese patients with isolated systolic hypertension. Systolic Hypertension in China (Syst-China) Collaborative Group.	Isolated systolic hypertension occurs in around 8% of Chinese people aged 60 years or older. In 1988, the Systolic Hypertension in China (Syst-China) Collaborative Group started to investigate whether active treatment could reduce the incidence of stroke and other cardiovascular complications in older patients with isolated systolic hypertension.
