A case report on aggressive fibromatosis with bone involvement.	Aggressive fibromatosis is a locally infiltrative fibroblastic tumour that arises from fascial planes of soft tissue but does not metastasize. It is known to invade muscle, subcutaneous tissue and neurovascular structures. However, bone involvement is very rare and there has been few reports of bone involvement. We present a case of a young man with aggressive fibromatosis of the right lower leg with fibula involvement.
Calcifying aponeurotic fibroma: the case of a 15-year old boy]	Calcifying aponeurotic fibroma is a rare benign soft tissue tumor that usually involves distal extremities in children and young adults. It is characterized by a high rate of recurrence. We report a case in a 15-year-old boy who complained of painless swelling of his right foot. Tomodensitometry showed a dense well-circumscribed tumor with peripheral calcification. The tumor was completely removed. The patient is well at 28 months follow-up. Diagnosis relied on microscopic analysis showing fibroblastic proliferation with focal calcification and chondroid differentiation.
Glomus tumors of the finger: a report on 60 cases]	We evaluated patients who underwent surgery for glomus tumors of the finger.
Intra-articular hemangioma of the knee as a cause of knee pain.	We report the case of a young patient with knee pain, limited range of motion, and swelling due to an intra-articular hemangioma. Clinically, the symptoms and findings were similar to those of a meniscal lesion. The diagnosis of an intra-articular tumor was made using magnetic resonance imaging. The tumor was excised, and the definitive diagnosis was made histologically. After tumor excision, the patient was pain free.
A case of subcutaneous myxopapillary ependymoma presenting as a pilonidal sinus.	We describe a rare neurogenic tumour presenting as a pilonidal sinus. This case illustrates the pitfalls associated with the management of a commonly occurring surgical condition. Pilonidal sinuses are often the province of trainee surgeons and while ependymomas are rare, this example emphasises the need to send the pilonidal sinus tract for histological examination.
Indication, technique, and results of plantaris medialis neurovascular island flaps.	Treatment of soft tissue defects in the heel often causes problems because of the anatomical structures of the foot and the foot's function in bearing the entire weight of the body. Various types of flap surgery have been tried, to deal with these problem areas. As ever, all the skin flaps lacked the normal quality of the plantar skin, which has fibrous septa with reduced flexibility. In view of the quality of the skin and subcutaneous tissue and the quality of the nerve supply, the technique of neurovascular island flaps for the plantaris medialis was used over the last 4 years in 14 patients, to conceal small to medium-sized heel defects. In this report, we examine anatomy, indication, technique, and results with regard to plantaris medialis island flaps. Their use is discussed in comparison with other types of flaps already used in this region.
Scoliosis associated with ganglioneuroblastoma: a case report with 17-year follow-up.	We describe the case of a 12-year-old boy with scoliosis due to a malignant ganglioneuroblastoma. He had a successful outcome, as was noted by 17-year follow-up of tumor resection and spinal fusion.
Acute monoarthritis and laryngeal obstruction as extralymphatic manifestations of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma]	Joints and larynx are uncommonly involved by non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). Synovial involvement has been reported in only 7 cases, mainly located in the knees. When this is the first location of NHL it is usually misdiagnosed. The treatment of choice is local radiotherapy followed by systemic chemotherapy. Laryngeal lymphoma can be either primary or forming part of multifocal disease. The prognosis of the primary form is usually good only with radiotherapy, whereas the prognosis of the laryngeal location of advanced disease is rather poor. The symptoms include dysphonia and slowly progressive dyspnea. A case of NHL is presented who showed initial arthritis of the knee, later evolving into severe laryngeal obstruction, an association not previously reported.
Increased risk of cancer in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus.	To evaluate the risk of cancer in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) a series of 205 consecutive patients (182 women and 23 men) were followed up for cancer through the files of the Finnish Cancer Registry. The follow up consisted of a total of 2340 person years. Fifteen cancers were diagnosed against 5.7 expected (relative risk (RR) 2.6, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.5 to 4.4). Among the women there were four non-Hodgkin's lymphomas against 0.09 expected (RR 44, CI 11.9 to 111) and two soft tissue sarcomas against 0.04 expected (RR 49, CI 6.0 to 177). When evaluated by a case control study previous treatment with cytostatic drugs showed no influence on the occurrence of cancer in this series of patients with SLE.
Effects of omega-3 fatty acids on orexigenic and anorexigenic modulators at the onset of anorexia.	In cancer anorexia, a decrease in food intake (FI) occurs concomitant with changes in orexigenic peptides such as neuropeptide Y (NPY) and anorexigenic peptides such as alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) and anorexigenic neurotransmitter serotonin. omega-3 Fatty acid (omega-3FA) inhibits cytokine synthesis, and delays tumor appearance, tumor growth, and onset of anorexia in tumor-bearing rats. We hypothesize that, in cancer anorexia, omega-3FA is associated with quantitative reversal of hypothalamic NPY, alpha-MSH, and serotonin receptor (5-HT(1B)-receptor) enhancing FI. Fischer rats were divided into: MCA tumor bearing fed chow (TB-Chow) or omega-3FA diet (TB-omega-3FA) and controls: non-tumor bearing fed chow (NTB-Chow) or omega-3FA diet (NTB-omega-3FA). Rats were euthanized at anorexia and brains were removed for hypothalamic immunohistochemical study, using NPY, alpha-MSH, and 5-HT(1B)-receptor-specific antibodies and slides assessed by image analysis. Immunostaining specificity was controlled by omission of primary or secondary antibodies and pre-absorption test. At anorexia, FI decreased (P < 0.05) in TB-Chow but did not change in TB-omega-3FA rats. In TB-omega-3FA vs. TB-Chow, NPY immunoreactivity increased 38% in arcuate nucleus (ARC; P < 0.05), and 50% in magnocellular paraventricular nucleus (mPVN; P < 0.05). alpha-MSH decreased 64% in ARC and 29% in mPVN (P < 0.05). 5-HT(1B)-receptor immunoreactivity decreased 13% only in supraoptic nucleus (P < 0.05). No immunoreactivity was found in the control sections. omega-3FA modified hypothalamic peptides and 5-HT-(1B)-receptor immunoreactivity at anorexia, concomitant with an increase in FI, were probably mediated by omega-3FA inhibition of tumor-induced cytokines.
Synovial haemangioma of the knee: a case report.	Synovial haemangioma is a rare but important cause of knee symptoms, which, when undiagnosed, can lead to significant morbidity. Diagnosis is frequently difficult and delayed. We report on a case of synovial haemangioma, which demonstrates the difficulties inherent in diagnosis and the morbidity associated with diagnostic delay, in a young woman. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a useful tool for diagnosis, but detection on MRI can also be problematic, as shown by this case, demonstrating the need for greater awareness of this condition by both clinicians and radiologists. Arthroscopy is important in both the diagnosis and treatment of these lesions.
Neurilemoma of the posterior tibial nerve and tarsal tunnel syndrome.	Tarsal tunnel syndrome is defined as a compressive neuropathy of the posterior tibial nerve in the tarsal canal. A neurilemoma is an uncommon, benign, encapsulated neoplasm derived from Schwann cells. We present a case of tarsal tunnel syndrome caused by this rare space-occupying lesion.
Collagenous fibroma (desmoplastic fibroblastoma) of the neck presenting with neurological symptoms.	Collagenous fibromas are rare fibrous soft tissue tumours that usually arise in subcutaneous tissue or skeletal muscle at a variety of anatomical sites. These lesions commonly present as painless, slow-growing mobile masses. We describe a unique case of a 41-year-old woman presenting with a posterior neck swelling and longstanding history of severe ongoing pain in the right scapular region, shoulder and neck, weakness of the palmar grip and limited right lateral neck flexion and rotation. A history of trauma to the right neck in adolescence was noted. Histological analysis revealed a paucicellular lesion with spindle and stellate-shaped fibroblasts involving the cervical nerve roots, typical of collagenous fibroma. In a literature search on Medline and Pubmed, we found no reported cases of collagenous fibromas presenting with neurological symptoms. This report highlights the potential of these lesions to present with neurological symptoms due to infiltration of surrounding tissues, and that preceding trauma may contribute to the aetiology.
Recurrent hemarthrosis in a boy with synovial hemangioma: a case report.	We describe an unusual case of hemarthrosis caused by a synovial hemangioma in an 11-year-old boy. The initial presentations were sudden onset of spontaneous knee swelling and painful sensation accompanied by limitation of joint movement. The patient had a history of recurrent swelling with spontaneous remission over the same location in the past year. In addition, diffuse cutaneous hemangioma since infancy was also noted. Synovial involvement of a cutaneous hemangioma was confirmed by multidetector computed tomography and arthroscopy. The patient was started on oral corticosteroid and β-blocker. No recurrence was noted on multidetector computed tomographic images or clinical examination at the 2-month follow-up.
Hyperphosphatemic tumoral calcinosis: a 10-year follow-up.	To report a case of primary hyperphosphatemic tumoral calcinosis (TC) and its long-term 10-year follow-up.
Paraneoplastic ataxia and dystonia secondary to a malignant fibrous histiocytoma.	Paraneoplastic movement disorders are part of the spectrum of paraneoplastic syndromes caused by the production of onconeural antibodies such as anti-Hu by underlying tumours. These attack specific neurons depending on receptor aetiology. We report the case of a 53-year-old man who presented 8 years previously with symptoms of upper limb weakness, light headedness, dizziness and falls. His condition followed a progressive course. Two years after onset he had right-sided weakness, diplopia and generalised dystonia. Initial investigations identified a positive anti-Hu antibody, but an extensive search for a primary tumour was negative. A malignant fibrous histiocytoma in his right gluteal fold was subsequently identified. At this stage he was bed bound with severe ataxia, dystonia and spasticity. Following surgical excision and treatment with high dose steroids and pulse immunoglobulin, further progression was arrested and minor improvements occurred. He can now ambulate with bilateral assistance but remains severely disabled.
Pleomorphic rhabdomyosarcoma with pulmonary tumour embolism.	Pulmonary tumour embolism is a known complication of cancer disease. To date, pleomorphic rhabdomyosarcoma has been described once with this entity. We report a case of pulmonary tumour embolism diagnosed in the operation room after cardiac arrest of a 30-year-old male patient who had surgical amputation of his right upper limb due to recurrent sarcoma, mandating urgent and successful embolectomy.
An unusual case of common digital nerve compression caused by a lipoma arising from the flexor tenosynovium.	Lipoma of the hand is a common lesion, but lipoma arising from the flexor tenosynovium is a very rare tumor that induces peripheral nerve disorders. Only four cases of synovial lesions that comprised mature fat at the wrist and imitated carpal tunnel syndrome have been described in the literature. We herein report an unusual case of a lipoma arising from the flexor tenosynovium at the level of the ring finger just proximal to the A1 pulley that was responsible for a sensory disturbance of the ring and middle fingers secondary to compression of the common digital nerve at the palm. The patient was completely relieved of the symptoms after lipoma excision. 
Intra-articular fibroma of tendon sheath arising in the acromioclavicular joint.	Fibroma of the tendon sheath, a rare benign soft tissue tumor that most often occurs in the distal upper extremities (hands and wrist), is exceedingly rare to present as an intraarticular mass. Presented here is the first case in the English literature, to our knowledge, of a fibroma of the tendon sheath arising in the acromioclavicular joint. The patient presented with recurrent shoulder pain with activity without antecedent trauma. Radiographs were essentially normal. MR images demonstrated a lobulated, heterogeneous mass with contrast enhancement arising from the acromioclavicular joint. Following surgical resection, histopathology revealed hypocellular collagen matrix with spindle-shaped fibroblasts, confirming the diagnosis of fibroma of tendon sheath. The imaging features of the fibroma of the tendon sheath and a brief review of the literature are presented. 
Percutaneous sclerotherapy for treatment of tumoral calcinosis.	Massive tumoral calcinosis developed in a 29-year-old woman with type 1 diabetes and failed pancreas and kidney transplant on peritoneal dialysis. The patient had a symptomatic calcified, fluid-filled posterior thigh mass. After percutaneous drainage of 260 mL of milky fluid, she had rapid recurrence of the collection. She underwent catheter-based sclerotherapy first with 110 mL of povidone-iodine followed 2 days later by 40 mL of 3% sodium tetradecyl sulfate foam. At 5.5 months after the procedure, the patient remained asymptomatic, and computed tomography imaging showed complete resolution of the collection. 
Use of cisplatin for control of metastatic malignant mesenchymoma and hypertrophic osteopathy in a dog.	Cisplatin (cis-diammine-dichloroplatinum) treatment induced partial remission of pulmonary metastatic malignant mesenchymoma and nearly complete radiographic remission of hypertrophic osteopathy in a 14-year-old Beagle. Cisplatin was given once every 3 weeks. Clinical signs of hypertrophic osteopathy resolved one week after initiation of treatment. Partial remission of pulmonary metastases and partial radiographic remission of hypertrophic osteopathy was seen 6 weeks after initiation of treatment. Previous treatment of neoplasia-related hypertrophic osteopathy has consisted of removal of the initiating mass or vagotomy. In this case, appropriate chemotherapy was used to control clinical signs and progression of hypertrophic osteopathy.
Skull infarction in a patient with malignant fibrous histiocytoma.	The authors describe a case of a skull infarction initially suspected to be an isolated, remote metastasis in a patient diagnosed with soft tissue malignant fibrous histiocytoma. Osseous malignant fibrous histiocytoma has been reported to occur within a bone infarction but the presence of a benign bone infarction remote from a soft tissue malignant fibrous histiocytoma has not been reported previously. Bone infarctions and malignant fibrous histiocytomas are briefly reviewed.
Hemangiosarcoma in chronic leg ulcer.	We recently evaluated a patient with an angiosarcoma arising in a long-standing ulceration of his leg, which appeared representative of a characteristic, though fairly uncommon, subgroup of angiosarcomas. The clinical and immunohistochemical features of the tumor enabled us to define its origin from vascular endothelial cells.
Epithelioid sarcoma presenting as the reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome.	A case of reflex sympathetic dystrophy caused by an epithelioid sarcoma is presented. This is the first report of a local peripheral tumour associated with the reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome.
Glomus tumors of the digits.	A painful subungual tumor in a digit with a cold intolerance is characteristic of a glomus tumor. Lack of recognition often unnecessarily delays therapy. Surgical excision, utilizing an operating microscope for identification of tumor vascularisation and tourniquet control is the therapy of choice. Multiple tumors may be present in the same digit. No malignant transformation of the tumor has been described.
Lipedema]	The "Lipedema" or "Fatedema" is conditioned by a slight mechanical obstruction of the small lymphatic vessels by the increasing pressure of the growing fat tissue. This lymphostasis in a normal lymphatic vessel system arises only with women and always symmetrically and conducts to typical complaints. Therapeutically, apart from loss in weight, only lymph drainage therapy is in a position to remove the complaints of edema.
Acquired cutaneous lymphangiectasia.	We report a case of acquired cutaneous lymphangiectasia associated with underlying malignancy, and following an arthrotomy. Clinical and histological features were identical with those of acquired lymphangioma. Lymphangiography showed signs of acquired lymphatic obstruction. Both the underlying tumour and the arthrotomy were thought to be contributory factors.
The problem of stabilization after sacrectomy.	After sacrectomy, mobilization of the patient is only possible if a stable connection between the spine and pelvis can be obtained. We have developed an instrumentation to fix the pelvis to the spine. Two DHS screws connected to each other were implanted in the pelvis (one DHS screw into each ilium). An internal spine fixator, anchored in L3 and L4 through transpedicular Schanz screws, was attached to these DHS screws. Two patients were stabilized with this implant after sacrectomy. One patient was able to walk with crutches; the other patient was able to walk even without crutches.
Immunoglobulin levels in children treated for malignant tumors.	IgG, IgA and IgM levels were examined in children treated for different malignant tumors. Chemotherapy decreased IgG and mainly IgM. There was increased incidence of infectious complications in IgG deficiency.
Hereditary presacral teratoma.	A case of hereditary presacral teratoma involving father and daughter is described. The use of magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis of this condition is illustrated and a review of the literature of this unusual condition is presented.
Erythema elevatum diutinum. Response to dapsone.	A patient with a 20-year history is presented as a classic example of erythema elevatum diutinum, with a dramatic response to dapsone therapy, and with interesting features of improvement during pregnancies and occurrence of giant cell tumors of soft tissue, neither of these latter features having been previously reported.
