Marine recruit adherence in a skin and soft tissue infection prevention trial: implications for recruit research and public health application.	A cluster-randomized trial evaluating the effectiveness of chlorhexidine gluconate-impregnated wipes against skin and soft tissue infections (SSTIs) and colonization with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) was conducted among military recruits attending Officer Candidate School at Marine Corps Base Quantico, Virginia. Participants were instructed to use the wipes thrice weekly and were monitored daily for SSTI. Surveys assessed frequency of wipe use as well as knowledge and attitudes regarding MRSA SSTI. Use of chlorhexidine gluconate-impregnated wipes failed to prevent SSTI; however, study adherence was moderate. Adherence with the study regimen (defined as use of > or = 50% of the wipes) was 65% at week 2 and declined to 49% by week 6. Adherence was approximately 59% in the first two classes and declined in later classes. One-third felt that use of the wipes was disruptive. Participants were knowledgeable about MRSA SSTI prevention measures. However, only 53% agreed that MRSA commonly causes skin infections in military training facilities. Understanding adherence and its determinants is needed to optimize prevention strategies that require self-administration. Future efforts should address barriers to adherence with prevention strategies in recruit training settings.
The Infectious Diseases Clinical Research Program: addressing the challenge of infections related to war injuries and skin and soft tissues.	The Infectious Diseases Clinical Research Program (IDCRP) at the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences (USU) is a National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID)-funded network of military treatment and research facilities coordinated through USU and the Henry M. Jackson Foundation for the Advancement of Military Medicine (HJF). IDCRP functions in collaboration with the NIAID, universities, and industry to address infectious diseases threats to the U.S. military and to the nation. Although IDCRP has projects in diseases from HIV to tuberculosis, a major focus has been on skin, soft-tissue, and war-related infections.
