Leiomyosarcoma of soft tissue in children: clinicopathologic analysis of 20 cases.	Leiomyosarcoma in the pediatric age group is uncommon and incompletely characterized. A series of 20 primary leiomyosarcomas of soft tissue occurring in children younger than 16 years is presented. No significant gender predilection was observed (11 girls and 9 boys). Patient age ranged from 4 to 15 years (median, 12 years). Tumor size ranged from 0.5 to 13 cm (median, 2.5 cm); subcutaneous and deep locations were equally represented. Tumors were evenly distributed among the trunk (30%), head and neck (25%), lower limbs (25%), and upper limbs (20%). All lesions showed at least focally typical features of smooth muscle differentiation, principally in the form of fascicles of eosinophilic spindle cells with cigar-shaped nuclei. An unusual whorled growth pattern was seen in two cases. Morphologic variants including inflammatory leiomyosarcoma (one case), granular cell leiomyosarcoma (two cases), giant-cell rich leiomyosarcoma (two cases), and epithelioid leiomyosarcoma (one case) were seen. Dystrophic calcifications were present in two cases. Most lesions (85%) were low grade. Immunohistochemical staining showed positivity for alpha-smooth muscle actin in 89% of the cases, HHF-35 in 87%, and desmin in 61%. Positivity for cytokeratins, observed in 6 (43%) of 14 cases tested, was usually strong and was diffuse in two cases. Follow-up data, available in 15 (75%) patients (median duration, 49 months), showed late local recurrence in only two cases, one with progression to a higher grade lesion, and no metastasis. These results show that, although extremely rare, soft-tissue leiomyosarcomas do occur in children, in whom they usually present as small morphologically low-grade lesions that seem to behave in a relatively indolent fashion, although longer follow-up data are needed. Differential diagnosis in this setting includes infantile myofibromatosis, leiomyoma, monophasic synovial sarcoma, and spindle cell rhabdomyosarcoma.
Epidemiology of soft tissue sarcomas in adults]	Soft tissue sarcoma accounts for a approximately 1% of all cancers. Excluding Kaposi sarcoma, the incidence of soft tissue sarcoma has remained stable in Europe (3-4/100,000). ENDOGENOUS FACTORS: Endogenous factors are related to rare genetic syndromes (Li-Fraumeni syndrome, neurofibromatosis, Werner syndrome, bilateral retinoblastom). EXOGENOUS FACTORS: Exogenous factors associated with soft tissue sarcoma are essentially iatrogenic: radiation therapy (prevalence of radiation-induced sarcoma: 0.17-0.21%) and chronically edematous arms after radical mastectomy for breast cancer (Stewart-Treves syndrome). Many studies suggest that environmental or occupational exposure to chlorophenol, phenoxy-herbicides or dioxin increase the risk of soft tissue sarcoma. FURTHER RESEARCH: Little is known about the epidemiology of soft tissue sarcoma. Case-control studies are needed.
Alveolar soft part sarcoma in Japan: multi-institutional study of 57 patients from the Japanese Musculoskeletal Oncology Group.	The clinical features and the management of alveolar soft part sarcoma (ASPS) are not well known. The efficacy of chemotherapy for soft tissue sarcoma, including high-dose ifosfamide and cisplatin, has not been established yet. Some reports suggest ASPS may occur primarily in bone.
Neoplasms during the 1st year of life: a study of 116 cases treated during the last 10 years]	116 infants under one year of age (14 per 100) with malignancies including 35 neuroblastomas, 23 retinoblastomas, 14 Wilm's tumours, 10 hepatoblastomas, 10 brain tumours, 9 germ cell tumours, 8 histiocytic and 7 soft tissue sarcomas, were treated in the last ten years. Hepatoblastoma is the highest relative incidence tumor in the first year of life and with brain tumours has the worst prognosis (50 and 40 per 100, respectively). The disease-free survival rate is most than 80 per 100 in neuro and nephroblastoma with medical and surgical treatment. Familiar incidence in Wilm's tumor is 42 per 100 and chemotherapy side effects are 23 per 100. Familiar incidence in neuroblastoma is 20 per 100 and chemotherapy side effects 21 per 100. In conclusion, in children with malignancies under one year of age have good prognosis (75 per 100 survival at five years), with lower surgical complications rate. Early diagnosis and response to chemotherapy, the side effects of which are considerable and should be strictly controlled, are key factors in the better prognosis and increased life expectancy in this group of patients.
Prognosis of post-irradiation soft-tissue sarcoma: case-control study]	We describe clinical and pathological aspects and survival of 12 recent of radio-induced soft tissue sarcoma.
Imaging study findings in elastofibroma dorsi.	Elastofibroma dorsi is a tumor or pseudotumor typically located under the tip of the scapula. It is far from uncommon in older individuals. The mass contains both fibrous tissue and fatty tissue. Imaging studies can provide the definite diagnosis in many cases. Computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are particularly effective, as they visualize the characteristic layered pattern of fatty tissue (low-density by CT, high-signal on T1 images and intermediate signal on T2 images by MRI) and fibrous tissue (similar to muscle in terms of density by CT and signal intensity by MRI). To a lesser extent, plain radiographs and ultrasonography identify a number of suggestive features (location and layered structure). When the lesion exhibits typical imaging features and produces no symptoms, as is usually the case, further investigations are probably unnecessary.
Deep-seated, well differentiated lipomatous tumors of the chest wall and extremities: the role of cytogenetics in classification and prognostication.	Intramuscular lipomas and atypical lipomatous tumors (ALT) are common deep-seated lipomatous tumors of the chest wall and extremities. Distinguishing between these two entities can be difficult based on histologic analysis alone. However, the cytogenetic profiles of ALT and intramuscular lipomas are distinct. Correct classification is important, because aggressive local disease recurrence occurs more frequently in patients with ALT than in patients with intramuscular lipoma. The authors examined their single institutional experience and correlated their classification with clinical features and outcome.
Epidemiology of malignant neoplasms in soft tissue during childhood.	Employing the data of the Hokkaido Children's Cancer Registry, incidences of malignant neoplasms in soft tissue during childhood were estimated. During 25 years (1975--1999), a total of 110 such cases (0-14 years of age) were registered. The average incidence was 0.40 per 100,000 population aged 0-14 years. The incidence of rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) was 0.24, accounting for 60% of all malignant neoplasms in soft tissue. 30% of the malignant neoplasms in soft tissue were found in the head/face/neck. The share of RMS in the upper limbs was 76%, while that in the chest was 25%. Mortality due to malignant neoplasms in soft tissue was estimated using the data of vital statistics of all Japan. The average mortality of all malignant neoplasms in soft tissue was about 0.15 per 100,000 population aged 0-14 years, which was almost constant throughout the 25 years. Both the mortality at 5-9 years of age and that at age 10-14 years increased, while that at 0-4 years had a tendency to decrease. The prolongation of the survival period in the 0-4-year age group due to the progress in therapy may have brought about a shift of the age at death to older age groups, leading to a decrease in the mortality at 0-4 years of age.
A proposed explanation for female predominance in alveolar soft part sarcoma. Noninactivation of X; autosome translocation fusion gene?	Alveolar soft-part sarcoma (ASPS) is a rare malignant soft tissue tumor with both clinically and morphologically distinct features. It often involves the extremities of adolescents and young adults and shows a predilection for females. Recently, ASPS was found to have a nonreciprocal der(17)t(X;17) translocation with the corresponding fusion gene located in chromosome 17. Because females have an extra X-chromosome, their likelihood of developing an X;autosome translocation is theoretically double that of males, and thus, this extra X-chromosome is a likely explanation for female predominance of ASPS.
Oral soft tissue lesions in Greek children and adolescents: a retrospective analysis over a 32-year period.	Pediatric oral pathology encompasses a wide clinical spectrum of local and systemic diseases. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical characteristics of oral soft tissue lesions in Greek children and adolescents up to 18 years old. Data available through a 32 year old period revealed that among the 1040 cases analyzed, benign lesions, mainly cysts, inflammatory lesions and reactive hyperplasias, were the most common causes for seeking dental advice during childhood.
Leiomyosarcoma: a rare pedal finding.	Leiomyosarcoma of the skin and subcutaneous tissue is a rare soft tissue neoplasm comprised of spindle-shaped smooth muscle cells. The statistical incidence of superficial leiomyosarcomas varies from 2.3% to 5.3% of malignant soft tissue tumors and from 4.0% to 6.5% of soft tissue sarcomas. Its occurrence in the foot is even more unusual. In a literature review extending from 1936-present, the authors have been able to locate only 12 known cases of leiomyosarcoma involving the foot and ankle. A presentation of the incidence, demographics of distribution, clinical characteristics, histopathologic features, prognosis, and treatment of leiomyosarcoma will be presented along with a unique case history involving a recalcitrant heel ulcer complicated by leiomyosarcoma.
Clustering in sparse data and an analysis of rhabdomyosarcoma incidence.	Time series of epidemiologic events often contain periods of atypically low or high frequency. Correspondingly, for quite rate diseases there occur instances of long vacuous durations interrupted noticeably by periods of some disease activity. A recent community-based observation of the incidence of rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS), and an investigation of it, yielded sparse data of this general description. We introduce a combinatorial test for patchy time series and apply it to the RMS data. We comment on the prevalent practice of post hoc data analysis of alleged clusters, and on scale effects.
Soft tissue leiomyosarcoma. A population-based epidemiologic and prognostic study of 48 patients, including cellular DNA content.	Leiomyosarcoma of soft tissue is a rare tumor. There are different opinions regarding epidemiology and prognosis.
Pentavalent Tc-99m DMSA scintigraphy. Prospective evaluation of its role in the management of patients with medullary carcinoma of the thyroid.	Ten patients with suspected primary, recurrent or metastatic medullary carcinoma of the thyroid (MCT) were studied prospectively with Tc-99m(V) DMSA. Of these, two patients had primary disease, seven patients were asymptomatic but had persistent and serial elevations in serum calcitonin following previous thyroid resections for MCT, and one asymptomatic patient with normal serum calcitonin was studied because of suspected hilar nodes metastases. The serial calcitonin peak in the patients was 0.04-43ng/ml (normal less than 0.08ng/ml). Scintigraphy was considered positive in seven of the asymptomatic patients and equivocal in one. The two patients with primary disease had increased uptake before but not after thyroidectomy. Primary disease, localized recurrence and distant metastases in soft tissue (nine patients) and bone (one patient) were detected in these patients, and this resulted in early surgical resection (five patients) and radiotherapy (one patient). We conclude that Tc-99m(V) DMSA is a useful imaging agent in the evaluation of asymptomatic MCT patients with hypercalcitonemia.
Abnormal rib number in childhood malignancy: implications for the scoliosis surgeon.	Retrospective review.
Are sarcoma centers needed in Germany? Experience gained with the Bonner GIST register]	Due to their rarity and multiple subtypes, there is scant experience with sarcomas. Any effective targeted therapy depends on precise diagnosis of the tumor group using molecular markers and, increasingly, mutation testing. The necessary histopathological expertise and molecular diagnostic tools are usually only found at specialized centers. Using the Bonner GIST register as an example, the advantages of this kind of register from a diagnostic and therapeutic perspective will be discussed. Material submitted for gastrointestinal stromal tumors and other mesenchymal tumors, as well as the supervision of pathological referencing for national and international studies have made accurate diagnosis and appropriate therapy strategies ever more possible. The introduction of epidemiological as well as interdisciplinary sarcoma registers is a prerequisite for the improvement of sarcoma diagnostics and therapy.
Rectal atresia and stenosis: unique anorectal malformations.	Rectal atresia/stenosis is a rare disorder in the spectrum of anorectal malformations and is particularly associated with a presacral mass. These patients are born with a normal anal canal but have a stricture or complete atresia located a few centimeters proximal to the dentate line. We present a surgical technique for the management of these patients, as well as their unique clinical concerns and outcomes.
Significance of sonographically guided percutaneous needle biopsy in the diagnostics of soft tissue tumors]	The role of percutaneous needle biopsy in the diagnostics of soft tissue tumors is controversially discussed. The specificity of this method has been examined in this study based on the collective of patients treated in our university hospital. Secondly, the influence of the specialization of the treating surgeon has been evaluated.
Audit of cancer patients from eastern Uttar Pradesh (UP), India: a university hospital based two year retrospective analysis.	A retrospective analysis of all cancer patients attending the radiotherapy outpatient department (OPD) of a single unit during the period of January 2005 till December 2006 was conducted to know the geographical distribution and incidence of the most common cancers, their stage of presentation, treatment compliance among the patients and follow-up.
Metastases to the hand and wrist: an analysis of 221 cases.	To identify demographic trends, survival rates, the most common metastatic locations, and the most common primary malignant tumors in the reports of hand and wrist metastases published over the past 27 years.
Distribution and evaluation of bone and soft tissue tumors in the middle Black Sea Region.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the characteristics of bone and soft tissue tumors operated on at the Department of Orthopedics and Traumatology at Ondokuz Mayıs University Faculty of Medicine Hospital between January 1987 and January 2012.
Review of foot tumors seen in a university tumor institute.	Most tumors of the foot and ankle will be benign, and it has been easy for clinicians to underestimate the malignant potential of a given tumor. The purpose of our study was to gain insight into the incidence of different tumor types diagnosed in patients with tumors of the foot and/or ankle treated at the Rizzoli Institute from September 1990 to December 2007. Our series included 1170 patients and 1170 lesions, with an overall mean age at diagnosis of 43 (range 5 to 81) years. Overall, 870 lesions (74.36%) were nonmalignant and 300 (25.65%) were malignant. Soft tissue lesions were diagnosed in 189 patients (16.15%), of which 91 (48.15%) were nonmalignant (pseudotumors or benign). Bone lesions were diagnosed in 981 patients (83.85%), of which 779 (79.41%) were nonmalignant. Epidemiologic knowledge of foot abnormalities and clinical suspicion, an organized diagnostic method, and evidence-based treatment of musculoskeletal tumors are essential elements to obtaining optimal results in the treatment of malignant foot tumors. 
Epidemiological aspects of childhood cancer incidence in Czech regions.	In this descriptive epidemiological report a total of 5100 childhood malignancies registered in Czech regions during the period of 1963-1985 was analyzed. The incidence of these tumors compared in years of this time period has been relatively constant, we did not find any significant changes in trends. That is why the average annual incidence rate, i.e., 10.8 in males and 8.7 in females per 100,000 sufficiently characterized the epidemiological situation in this respect. Those parameters allow, by knowledge of demographic prognosis, to estimate expected numbers of tumors in further years. The highest incidence occurred in boys and in the lower age groups of both sexes. All differences presented in this report were tested and were found to be significant. The percentage ratio of solid tumors, preferentially those of bone and skin of both sexes, and brain tumors in females in the period of 1976-1985, as compared to the period of 1961-1970, decreased, whereas there was a significant increase of systemic malignancies and soft-tissue sarcomas. Finally, the geographic differences of incidence are described, and the possible causes of the data presented are discussed.
A case-control study of soft-tissue sarcoma.	The roles of nonagricultural occupations, tobacco use, beverage consumption, medical history, and other factors in the development of soft-tissue sarcoma were examined in a population-based case-control study in Kansas. Based on 133 cases diagnosed between 1976-1982 and 948 controls, there were significant excesses associated with use of the drug chloramphenicol (odds ratio (OR) = 5.4, 95% confidence interval (Cl) 1.2-23.9) and chewing tobacco or snuff (OR = 1.8, 95% Cl 1.1-2.9). The risk associated with smokeless tobacco varied with the location of the tumors; greater risks were observed for tumors of the upper gastrointestinal tract (OR = 3.3), the lung, pleura, and thorax (OR = 3.1), and the head, neck, and face region (OR = 2.4) than other regions of the body (OR = 1.4). A nonsignificant excess was seen with the use of cholesterol-lowering drugs, such as clofibrate (OR = 1.7). Four cases reported histories of prior radiation treatment to the same area of their bodies as their tumors. Soft-tissue sarcoma was also associated with employment in woodworking occupations (OR = 1.7, 95% Cl 0.9-3.2) and risk increased with increasing duration of employment. Persons with first-degree blood relatives with a history of Hodgkin's disease, lymphoma, or cancers of the pancreas, prostate, brain, or skin were at increased risk. Many of the associations observed in this study, notably the risk of soft-tissue sarcoma with smokeless tobacco and medications such as chloramphenicol, deserve further evaluation.
Radiation therapy in the extranodal non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of the maxillo-facial region]	An analysis was made on localized extranodal non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in the maxillo-facial region treated with radiation. Histopathological evaluation was reviewed by Rappaport classification and Working Formulation (WF). High grade histology of WF was rather frequent (32%) compared to Waldeyer's (NHL) (7%). Prognosis of the disease was highly influenced by histopathologic grade in WF; five-year survival rate was 100% with low grade, 65.6% with intermediate grade and 33.3% with high grade. Marginal relapse was rare after radiation dose of 30-50 Gy, however, there was a high incidence of bone and/or soft tissue relapses. Bone marrow biopsy and bone scintigram were useful examinations in the staging procedure of extranodal NHL.
Results of radiation therapy in extranodal non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of the head and neck--a study of the Japan Lymphoma Radiation Therapy Study Group]	Extranodal non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) in the head and neck except Waldeyer's ring treated with radiation were analyzed. No definite difference was observed both in actuarial and relapse-free five-year survival rate between stage I and II. There was a high survival rate with orbital NHL in which most of the patients occupied with favorable histology. Prognosis of the disease was highly influenced by the histologic subtype; five-year survival was 91.4% in DWDL, 77.2% in the DM, 52.0% in DPDL and 51.7% in DH. Application of histologic classification with the Working Formulation was also recommended. There was a high incidence of extranodal relapses to bone and/or soft tissue from the lesions with nasal cavity, paranasal sinus and oral cavity.
Tumoral calcinosis in a child.	Tumoral calcinosis is a rare benign tumor found adjacent to large joints, restricting motion and sometimes eroding through the skin. We report a case of this disease in a 9-month-old treated with surgical excision.
Management of patients with soft-tissue tumors. Strategy developed at a regional oncology center.	Clinical and morphologic variables in soft-tissue sarcomas and lipomas were retrospectively analysed and compared in consecutive, unselected population-based series from southern Sweden 1964-1981. Among the sarcoma patients these variables and the treatment given were evaluated by multivariate analysis with regard to the clinical course. The results of aspiration cytology and its influence on the choice of surgical procedure were evaluated in two series of patients referred to the Orthopaedic Oncology Group (the Center) because of suspected malignant soft-tissue tumors. Changes in the surgical treatment over time was determined. The annual incidence of sarcoma was 1.4/10(5) with a 30 per cent male preponderance. The mean age was 58 years. The most common histologic types were malignant fibrous histiocytoma, liposarcoma and leiomyosarcoma. Twenty-three per cent were histologically classified as low-grade malignant (Grades I and II), 33 per cent as Grade III and 44 per cent as Grade IV tumors. Slightly more than one half of the tumors were deep and these had a median size of 8 cm compared to 4 cm for the superficial tumors. One third of the tumors were located in the thigh. The annual clinical incidence of solitary subcutaneous lipoma was estimated to 1/10(3). Four fifths of the lipomas were smaller than 5 cm and they were most common in the trunk, shoulder and upper arm. By comparing clinical data for benign tumors and sarcomas it was found that a tumor 5 cm or larger or a deep tumor is relatively more likely to be a sarcoma. Patients with tumors of that size and depth should be referred before surgery. The probability of a benign cytodiagnosis being correct was 0.97 while that of a malignant one was 0.85. For a cytodiagnostic report of sarcoma the probability of correct diagnosis was 0.84. In a prospective evaluation the planned surgery was changed by subsequent cytodiagnosis in one third of the patients. Negative prognostic variables as regards survival in the order of decreasing relative risks were: Malignancy Grades IV and III, pain, male sex, increasing age and tumor size, marginal surgery and extracompartmental tumor site. Marginal excision, extracompartmental tumor site and age exerted their effect only via local recurrence which had a stronger negative influence on survival than any of the other variables. A linear survival function based on the prognostic variables was related to the probability of survival and the patients could be stratified into subsets with significantly different survival.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Surgical aspects in the multidisciplinary treatment of soft tissue sarcomas]	Sarcomas are rare malignant tumors with a large variety of histologic subtypes. The surgical approach depends more on the histologic grade, the size and the site of the tumor. Radiologic diagnosis relies predominantly on MR-imaging. Discernible improvements have taken place in soft tissue sarcoma patient survivorship and quality of life over the past 20 years, with overall 5-year survival currently at approximately 50-80%. The place of surgery in the treatment of soft-tissue sarcoma is defined in the light of a review of the recent literature. Radical surgical resection is the mainstay of therapy. Local recurrence is the most common type of failure. Local recurrence is resectable and limb preservations possible in the majority of patients. Survival after treatment of local recurrence is determined mainly by the grade and secondarily by the size of the tumor. The essential risk factor for local recurrence is the quality of surgical resection, defined by the definitive resection margins. A lateral safety margin of 5 cm and of 2 cm to the depth should be respected. In sarcoma of the extremity the compartment is defined based on clinical, radiographic, histopathologic and operative findings. The use of muscle flaps to fill the surgical defects can improve the functional result and reduce the complication rate. Only about 5% of the patients need amputation. Evaluation of functional results must be based on objective criteria. In retroperitoneal sarcoma the significant factors for determining prognosis are grade and completeness of exzision. Multidisciplinary treatment according to common protocols is essential. Shifts in treatment have taken place over the past decade, from single-modality treatment involving radical surgery with compartment resection to sophisticated limb-salvage strategies combined with radiation therapy. In case of inadequate surgery e.g. in a large tumor with positive margins in high-grade soft tissue sarcomas the addition of radiotherapy can improve local control, but cannot ensure that obtained by adequate surgery. Patients with large (greater than 5 cm), high grade soft tissue sarcoma are at high risk for distant recurrence and disease-related mortality. Investigations of combined modality therapy with newer chemotherapy agents and dose intensification treatment strategies are warranted.
Elastofibroma dorsi: prevalence in an elderly patient population as revealed by CT.	We wanted to determine the prevalence and appearance of elastofibroma dorsi in an elderly patient population (n = 258) who underwent CT of the chest for reasons other than to evaluate posterolateral chest wall pain, stiffness, or a mass.
Occupational chlorophenol exposure and soft tissue sarcoma risk among men aged 30-60 years.	To evaluate the association of chlorophenol exposure with soft tissue sarcoma risk independent of phenoxyherbicide exposure, the authors analyzed data from the Selected Cancers Study, a population-based case-control study that included 295 male soft tissue sarcoma cases, aged 32-60 years, from eight population-based cancer registries and 1,908 male controls. Chlorophenol exposure was assigned using both an intensity and a confidence estimate by an industrial hygienist based on verbatim job descriptions. Seventeen percent of the jobs rated as high intensity involved wood preservation, while 82% involved cutting oils. Soft tissue sarcoma risk, modeled using conditional logistic regression, was significantly associated with ever having high-intensity chlorophenol exposure (odds ratio = 1.79, 95% confidence interval 1.10-2.88). A duration-response trend was evident among more highly exposed subjects (p for trend < 0.0001). For subjects with 10 or more years of substantial exposure, the odds ratio was 7.78 (95% confidence interval 2.46-24.65). These results suggest that chlorophenol exposure independent of phenoxyherbicides may increase the risk of soft tissue sarcoma. Because of the large number of machinists in the exposed group and the complex composition of cutting fluids, it is possible that another exposure involved in machining is responsible for the observed excess risk.
