Stabilization of Pb- and Cu-contaminated soil using coal fly ash and peat.	The stabilization of metal contaminated soil is being tested as an alternative remediation method to landfilling. An evaluation of the changes in Cu and Pb mobility and bioavailability in soil induced by the addition of coal fly ash and natural organic matter (peat) revealed that the amount of leached Cu decreased by 98.2% and Pb by 99.9%, as assessed by a batch test. Metal leaching from the treated soil was lower by two orders of magnitude compared to the untreated soil in the field lysimeters. A possible formation of mineral Cu- and Pb-bearing phases and active surface with oxides were identified by chemical equilibrium calculations. Low metal leaching during a two-year observation period, increased seed germination rate, reduced metal accumulation in plant shoots, and decreased toxicity to plants and bacteria, thereby demonstrating this stabilization method to be a promising technique for in situ remediation of Cu and Pb contaminated soil.
In situ transformations of fine lead oxide particles in different soils.	We present a field application of a new in situ technique to analyze phase transformations of fine lead oxide particles (50-100mum) in different soils directly in the field over 18 months. After the first month of exposure to a calcareous sand we found newly precipitated secondary mineral phases on the lead oxide. The samples exposed to two loamy soils (Dystric Cambisol and Luvisol) showed only very few traces of new phases. We identified the new phases as mainly lead-hydroxy carbonates (hydrocerussite). Whereas the results confirm the transformation of lead phases to lead carbonates in calcareous soil, they also show that an easily soluble phase such as PbO may persist in soils virtually unweathered for more than one year. The formation of a weathering crust is therefore not necessarily needed for preservation of easily soluble phases. The use of experimental in situ methods is thus giving new information on contaminant mineral behavior under field conditions.
Thermally enhanced approaches for bioremediation of hydrocarbon-contaminated soils.	Successful remediation of contaminated soils is often limited by the low bioavailability of hydrophobic pollutants, which may slow the process significantly. In this study we investigated the benefits of high temperature in enhancing hydrocarbon degradation rates and evaluated the effect of different biostimulants. Hexadecane polluted soil microcosms with various amendments were incubated both at 60 degrees C and room temperature (18 degrees C) and analyzed periodically up to 40d for the degradation of hydrocarbon and the response of the microbial population. Natural attenuation showed a satisfactory intrinsic degradative capability at 60 degrees C and the addition of inorganic N, P and K increased the degradation rates by 10%. The addition of rhamnolipid biosurfactant further enhanced the bioavailability of alkane to microbial degradation resulting in up to 71% removal at 60 degrees C and 42% at 18 degrees C. Significant input to hexadecane degradation occurred at 60 degrees C (70%) as a result of the bioaugmentation with thermophilic Geobacillus thermoleovorans T80, which did not take place at 18 degrees C. Coupling high temperature to all amendments resulted in 90% removal of the hexadecane from soil after 40d which was also accompanied with an increase in bacterial numbers. The results suggest that thermally enhanced bioremediation may be an efficient technology for the treatment of hydrocarbon-contaminated soils.
Characteristics in oxidative degradation by ozone for saturated hydrocarbons in soil contaminated with diesel fuel.	Although alkanes are relatively less reactive to chemical oxidation compared to alkenes, the chemical oxidation of alkanes has not been adequately explored in the context of environmental remediation efforts. Laboratory-scale column experiments were therefore conducted with soil artificially contaminated by diesel fuel as a surrogate for alkanes of environmental relevance. Particular attention was paid to saturated hydrocarbons refractory to volatilization. Reaction conditions involve 1485mgkg(-1) of the initial concentration of diesel range organics (DRO) and a constant ozone concentration of 119+/-6mgl(-1) at the flow rate of 50mlmin(-1). The observed removal of DRO reached 94% over 14h of continuous ozone injection. Ozone oxidation demonstrated effective removal of non-volatile DRO in the range of C(12)-C(24). Each alkane compound displayed comparable degradation kinetics, suggesting virtually no selectivity of ozone reactions with alkanes in soil. A pseudo-first order kinetic model closely simulated the removal kinetics, yielding a reaction rate constant of 0.213 (+/-0.021)h(-1) and a half-life of 3.3 (+/-0.3)h under the experimental conditions used in this study. An estimate of ozone demand was 32mg of O(3) (mgDRO)(-1).
Bioremediation of soil contaminated with pentachlorophenol (PCP) using humic acids bound on zeolite.	We determined the toxicity of various chlorophenols, especially pentachlorophenol (PCP), on five bacterial strains and studied PCP biodegradation in soils amended with an organomineral complex (OMC) prepared from humic acids (organic part) bound on zeolite (inorganic part). Both components of OMC have excellent sorption properties and are of natural origin and therefore suitable to be used in the environment. Toxicity of chlorophenols depends not only on the number of chlorine atoms but also on their position on aromatic ring, and is thus regiospecific. Biodegradation of PCP was studied in three real completely characterized soil samples, Chernozem, Fluvisol, and Regosol, with and without the addition of OMC. The soils were sterilized and bioaugmented with the bacterial isolate Comamonas testosteroni CCM 7530. The immobilization effect of OMC in relation to PCP depends on the concentration of humic acids (HAs), the PCP concentration, and the content of organic carbon in soil. The microbial activity and the simulated action of acid rains led to the gradual release and biodegradation of the reversibly bound PCP without no initial toxic effect on indigenous or bioaugmented microorganisms. OMC appeared to be a good trap for PCP with potential applications in remediation technology because it reduces the potential toxicity of PCP to microbial community by lowering its bioavailability and thus facilitates its biodegradation.
Multi-step leaching of Pb and Zn contaminated soils with EDTA.	The efficiency of multi-step leaching of heavy metal contaminated soils was evaluated in a laboratory scale study. Four different soils contaminated with Pb (1136+/-16-4424+/-313mgkg(-1)) and Zn (288+/-5-5489+/-471mgkg(-1)) were obtained from industrial sites in the Mezica Valley, Slovenia and Príbram district, Czech Republic. Different dosages (2.5-40mmolkg(-1)) of ethylenediamine tetraacetate (EDTA) were used to treat soils in 1-10 leaching steps. Higher EDTA dosages did not result in a proportional gain in Pb and Zn removal. EDTA extracted Pb more efficiently than Zn from three of four tested soils. The percentage of removed Zn did not exceed 75% regardless of the soil, EDTA dosage and leaching steps. Significantly more Pb (in three of four soils) and Zn were removed from soils when the same amount of EDTA was applied in several leaching steps. The interference of major soil cations Fe and Ca with EDTA complexation as a possible factor affecting Pb and Zn removal efficiency with multi-step heap leaching was examined and is discussed. The results of our study indicate that, for some soils, using multi-step leaching instead of the more traditionally used single dose EDTA treatment could improve heavy metal removal efficiency and thus the economics of soil remediation.
Dynamics of heavy metals in the holocene aeolian loess-soil profile in the upper-reaches of the Huaihe River]	Upon the exploration and research in the field, we determined the content of Pb, Zn, Cu, Mn, Cr, Co, Ni, Ti, V, Nb at YPC loess-soil site on the X-ray Fluorescence. In the stage of loess accumulation, the content of these heavy metals are very low and the variances are very little, which can be served as the background value of paleosol formation. In the stage of Holocene Megathermal, the content of these heavy metals are increased greatly, because the eluviations and transmigrations of freely soluble elements under warm and humidity environment. In the stage of modern soil( MS), the content of Pb are increased gradually, and there are abruptly increase in the depth of 8cm below the ground, which are the records of sedimentation and accumulation of atmospheric pollutant.
Oxidation of pentachlorophenol by manganese dioxide]	This study examined the oxidative transformation kinetics of pentachlorophenol (PCP) by manganese dioxide (MnO2) at pH 4.12 solution using manganese dioxide as an oxidant. This study also discussed the influence of pH on the reaction kinetics. Results show that PCP has highly susceptible to oxidation by manganese dioxide. The loss of PCP slows as the reaction progresses and deviates from the simple pseudo-first-order kinetics but follows complex reaction kinetics when experiments were performed at a constant pH and with an enough excess of MnO2. Furthermore, the reaction rate of PCP decreases significantly as the pH of the reaction mixture increases from 3.5 to 6.6. Using solvent extraction and GC-MS analysis, one minor and two major products were detected. The minor product is the mixture of tetrachloro-1, 4-hydroquinone and tetrachlorocatechol, and the two major products are dimeric products that formed by coupling of pentachlorophenoxy radicals. Furthermore, the two major products are structural isomers, resembling each other except for the position of nine chloride atoms on the aromatic ring. On the basis of the surface reaction kinetics and product identification observed in this study, the reaction scheme for PCP oxidation by manganese dioxide is tentatively
Effect of application of silicon on arsenic uptake by rice seedlings in soil]	The objective of study was to investigate effect of silicon on arsenic uptake by rice seedlings in two soils with different arsenic concentrations. The results show that the addition of silicon has little effect on shoot and root dry weights of rice seedlings. The addition of silicon did not affect shoot and root P concentrations of rice seedlings grown in low arsenic soil, but significantly increased shoot P concentrations on rice grown in high arsenic soil. Irrespective of the initial pH of K2SiO3 solution, the addition of silicon significantly decreased shoot and root As concentrations of rice seedlings compared with the control. For seedlings grown in low As-contaminated soil, As concentrations in shoot and root were reduced by 36%-59% and 15%-37% with the application of silicon, respectively. For seedlings grown in high As-contaminated soil, As concentrations in shoot and root were reduced by 42%-58% and 70%-82% with the application of silicon, respectively. These results are in agreement with our previous reports based on a solution culture experiment. Possible mechanisms of the effect of Si on As uptake was also discussed.
A pilot-plant study for destruction of PCBs in contaminated soils using fluidized bed combustion technology.	Destruction of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in contaminated soils and wastes using circulating fluidized bed combustion (CFBC) technology was studied using a pilot plant and simulated waste material. The results show that the technology is effective and particularly promising for treatment of PCB-containing materials like the toxic sludge from a large contaminated site. Destruction of the toxics in the gas phase appears to be very fast, and over 99.9999% destruction and removal efficiency can be achieved in the temperature range 875-880 degrees C. Heat transfer in the fluidized bed also appears adequate. Toxic residues in treated soil can be reduced to very low levels. Rate-controlling factors of the decontamination process are analyzed, and key issues for determination of the process conditions are discussed.
Remediation of PCB contaminated soils using iron nano-particles.	In this study, iron nano-particles were used to remediate PCB contaminated soil and an attempt was made to maximize PCB destruction in each treatment step. The results show that nano-particles do aid in the dechlorination process and high PCB destruction efficiencies can be achieved. The destruction efficiency during the preliminary treatment (mixing of soil and iron nano-particles in water) can be increased by increasing the water temperature. The maximum thermal destruction (pyrolysis/combustion of soil after preliminary treatment) of soil-bound PCBs occurs at 300 degrees C in air. A minimum total PCB destruction efficiency of 95% can be achieved by this process. The effect of changing treatment parameters such as type of mixing, time of mixing and mixing conditions and application of other catalysts like iron oxide and V(2)O(5)/TiO(2) was also investigated. It was found that at 300 degrees C in air, iron oxide and V(2)O(5)/TiO(2) are also good catalysts for remediating PCB contaminated soils.
Aerobic degradation of di- and trichlorobenzenes by two bacteria isolated from polluted tropical soils.	Two polychlorinated biphenyl (PCBs)-degrading bacteria were isolated by traditional enrichment technique from electrical transformer fluid (Askarel)-contaminated soils in Lagos, Nigeria. They were classified and identified as Enterobacter sp. SA-2 and Pseudomonas sp. SA-6 on the basis of 16S rRNA gene analysis, in addition to standard cultural and biochemical techniques. The strains were able to grow extensively on dichloro- and trichlorobenzenes. Although they failed to grow on tetrachlorobenzenes, monochloro- and dichlorobenzoic acids, they were able to utilize all monochlorobiphenyls, and some dichlorobiphenyls as sole sources of carbon and energy. The effect of incubation with axenic cultures on the degradation of 0.9 mM 1,4-dichlorobenzene, 0.44 mM 1,2,3- and 0.43 mM 1,3,5-trichlorobenzene in mineral salts medium was studied. Approximately, 80-90% of these xenobiotics were degraded in 200 h, concomitant with cell increase of up to three orders of magnitude, while generation times ranged significantly (P<0.05) from 17-32 h. Catechol 1,2-dioxygenase and catechol 2,3-dioxygenase activities were detected in crude cell-free extracts of cultures pre-grown with benzoate, with the latter enzyme exhibiting a slightly higher activity (0.15-0.17 micromolmin(-1) mg of protein(-1)) with catechol, suggesting that the meta-cleavage pathway is the most readily available catabolic route in the SA strains. The wider substrate specificity of these tropical isolates may help in assessing natural detoxification processes and in designing bioremediation and bioaugmentation methods.
Estimating the extractability of potentially toxic metals in urban soils: a comparison of several extracting solutions.	Metals released by the extraction with aqua regia, EDTA, dilute HCl and sequential extraction (SE) by the BCR protocol were studied in urban soils of Sevilla, Torino, and Glasgow. By multivariate analysis, the amounts of Cu, Pb and Zn liberated by any method were statistically associated with one another, whereas other metals were not. The mean amounts of all metals extracted by HCl and by SE were well correlated, but SE was clearly underestimated by HCl. Individual data for Cu, Pb and Zn by both methods were correlated only if each city was considered separately. Other metals gave poorer relationships. Similar conclusions were reached comparing EDTA and HCl, with much lower values for EDTA. Dilute HCl extraction cannot thus be recommended for general use as alternative to BCR SE in urban soils.
Activated carbon adsorption of PAHs from vegetable oil used in soil remediation.	Vegetable oil has been proven to be advantageous as a non-toxic, cost-effective and biodegradable solvent to extract polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) from contaminated soils for remediation purposes. The resulting vegetable oil contained PAHs and therefore required a method for subsequent removal of extracted PAHs and reuse of the oil in remediation processes. In this paper, activated carbon adsorption of PAHs from vegetable oil used in soil remediation was assessed to ascertain PAH contaminated oil regeneration. Vegetable oils, originating from lab scale remediation, with different PAH concentrations were examined to study the adsorption of PAHs on activated carbon. Batch adsorption tests were performed by shaking oil-activated carbon mixtures in flasks. Equilibrium data were fitted with the Langmuir and Freundlich isothermal models. Studies were also carried out using columns packed with activated carbon. In addition, the effects of initial PAH concentration and activated carbon dosage on sorption capacities were investigated. Results clearly revealed the effectiveness of using activated carbon as an adsorbent to remove PAHs from the vegetable oil. Adsorption equilibrium of PAHs on activated carbon from the vegetable oil was successfully evaluated by the Langmuir and Freundlich isotherms. The initial PAH concentrations and carbon dosage affected adsorption significantly. The results indicate that the reuse of vegetable oil was feasible.
Chromium and nickel mobilization from a contaminated soil using chelants.	The mobilization of chromium and nickel from an industrial soil was investigated using two biodegradable chelants (citric acid and histidine), compared with a persistent one (ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid). Successive metal mobilizations were carried out in batch experiments. The main reactions involved were estimated by modeling the system with MINEQL+. For a single mobilization, citric acid was the most effective for Cr mobilization and EDTA for Ni. Their effectiveness could be explained by their ability to solubilize the mineral matrix and by the competition for the surfaces sites to desorb Cr(VI). Before and after the mobilizations, the distribution of metals was determined by a sequential extraction procedure. Only slight modifications were observed due to the low percentage of solubilized metal. A concentration of 0.05 mol L(-1) (citric acid and EDTA) allows a good compromise between metal mobilization and preservation of the soil mineral integrity.
Effect of temperature on the release of hexadecane from soil by thermal treatment.	A natural organic soil (2.5% of total organic carbon) was artificially contaminated with hexadecane, and thermally treated under an inert medium up to different final temperatures (150-800 degrees C) for 30 min to simulate ex situ thermal process conditions. The experiments were conducted using a complete organic soil, instead of the clays or isolated soil fractions that are commonly used. Neat and contaminated samples were separately heated to understand the impact of the soil itself and the contaminant in the release of volatiles. The soil quality as well as the quality and amount of volatile compounds generated during the process were monitored. More than 80-88% of the initial hexadecane content in the soil matrix was recovered in liquids traps after the thermal treatment, therefore the contaminant could be recovered for further recycling. The high amount of hexadecane collected without suffering chemical transformations indicated that the main mechanism for the hexadecane removal was evaporation. The analysis of the light gases released from contaminated samples indicated negligible or null hexadecane pyrolysis reaction rates, confirming that the evaporation/desorption of the contaminant are the processes that governed the removal of the contaminant from the soil. For the soil tested, of a relatively low surface area, good removal efficiencies (higher than 99.9%) were detected at about 300 degrees C, being higher temperatures not necessary to significantly improve the contamination removal.
Heavy metal sorption and desorption capacity of soils containing endogenous contaminants.	Soils on serpentinites in some regions of northwestern Spain have been the subject of agricultural management practices involving the use of fertilizers and various types of organic waste containing heavy metals. Although such practices have facilitated crop growth, they have also raised the natural contents in heavy metals of the soils. In this work, three ferralic Cambisols and another three mollic Leptosols with high Cr and Ni contents were used to study competitive sorption and desorption of six heavy metals via K(d100), which was employed as a measure of the ability of the soils to adsorb and retain each metal. Lead was found to be the metal sorbed and retained to the greatest extent, and Cd, Ni and Zn those sorbed and retained in the smallest amounts. Although the ferralic Cambisols were found to contain greater amounts of natural heavy metals, they exhibited an increased ability to adsorb and retain the body of metals relative to the mollic Leptosols by effect of their increased contents in clay and Fe, Mn and Al oxides, in addition to their higher ion-exchange capacity. Based on the results, Pb and Cu are strongly bound, and Zn, Cd and Ni weakly bound, to the soils. The ferralic Cambisols exhibited an increased capacity to adsorb and retain Cd, Ni, Zn and--especially--Cr than the mollic Leptosols; the latter, however, proved more effective in adsorbing and retaining Cu and Pb by virtue of their increased organic matter contents. Copper sorption and retention, and Pb retention, were found to be correlated with the content in organic matter and that in vermiculite--which was only present in the mollic Leptosols--in the clay fraction.
Anaerobic biotransformation of explosives in aquifer slurries amended with ethanol and propylene glycol.	Hexahydro-1,3,5-trinitro-1,3,5-triazine (RDX), octahydro-1,3,5,7-tetranitro-1,3,5,7-tetrazocine (HMX), and 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene (TNT) are explosives that are frequently found as environmental contaminants on military installations. Hydrogen has been shown to support the anaerobic transformation of these explosives. We investigated ethanol and propylene glycol as electron donors for providing syntrophically produced H2 for stimulating the anaerobic biodegradation of explosives in contaminated soil. The study was conducted using anoxic microcosms constructed with slurries of the contaminated soil and groundwater. The addition of 5mM ethanol and propylene glycol enhanced the biodegradation of RDX and HMX relative to the control bottles. Ethanol was depleted within about 20 days, resulting in the transient formation of hydrogen, acetate, and methane. The hydrogen headspace concentration increased from 8 ppm to 1838 ppm before decreasing to background concentrations. Propylene glycol was completely degraded after 15 days, forming hydrogen, propionate, and acetate as end-products. The hydrogen headspace concentrations increased from 56 ppm to 628 ppm before decreasing to background concentrations. No methane formation was observed during the incubation period of 48 days. Our findings indicate the addition of ethanol and propylene to the aquifer slurries increased the hydrogen concentrations and enhanced the biotransformation of RDX and HMX in the explosive-contaminated soil.
Reduction of Pb and Zn bioavailable forms in metal polluted soils due to paper mill sludge addition. Effects on Pb and Zn transferability to barley.	In the last few years solidification/stabilisation of acidic soils polluted by heavy metals with low-cost sorbents has been investigated. Paper mill sludges are produced in large amounts and their disposal is a serious environmental problem. The possibility was therefore studied of using paper mill sludge as a stabilizer to reduce the bioavailable metal forms in polluted soils and thus the transferability of metals to plants (barley). We first investigated the sorbing properties of paper mill sludge for Zn(II) and Pb(II) and then their fractionation both in a polluted soil and in the same soil amended with paper mill sludge in order to check the decrease in mobile forms. Finally in both soils we tested the uptake of two metals by common barley in order to assess the performance of soil remediation from an ecological point of view. The addition of paper mill sludge to a soil contaminated by lead and zinc induces a decrease in the mobile forms of both metals, probably due to the presence in sludge of organic matter and kaolinite, which are able to bind the metals very strongly. The decrease in the mobile forms, which are the most readily available for uptake by plants, corresponds to a decrease in plant uptake.
Effects of plant arsenic uptake and heavy metals on arsenic distribution in an arsenic-contaminated soil.	This study examined the effects of heavy metals and plant arsenic uptake on soil arsenic distribution. Chemical fractionation of an arsenic-contaminated soil spiked with 50 or 200mg kg(-1) Ni, Zn, Cd or Pb was performed before and after growing the arsenic hyperaccumulator Pteris vittata L for 8weeks using NH(4)Cl (water-soluble plus exchangeable, WE-As), NH(4)F (Al-As), NaOH (Fe-As), and H(2)SO(4) (Ca-As). Arsenic in the soil was present primarily as the recalcitrant forms with Ca-As being the dominant fraction (45%). Arsenic taken up by P. vittata was from all fractions though Ca-As contributed the most (51-71% reduction). After 8weeks of plant growth, the Al-As and Fe-As fractions were significantly (p<0.01) greater in the metal-spiked soils than the control, with changes in the WE-As fraction being significantly (p=0.007) correlated with plant arsenic removal. The plant's ability to solubilize soil arsenic from recalcitrant fractions may have enhanced its ability to hyperaccumulate arsenic.
Application of multiphase transport models to field remediation by air sparging and soil vapor extraction.	The design and operation of air sparging and soil vapor extraction (AS/SVE) remediation systems remains in large an art due to the absence of reliable physically based models that can utilize the limited available field data. In this paper, a numerical model developed for the design and operation of air sparging and soil vapor extractions systems was used to simulate two field case studies. The first-order mass transfer kinetics were incorporated into the model to account for contaminant mass transfer between the water and air (stripping), NAPL and water (dissolution), NAPL and air (volatilization), and water and soil (sorption/desorption), the model also accounted for soil heterogeneity. Benzene, toluene, ethyl benzene and xylenes (BTEX) were the contaminants of concern in both case studies. In the second case study, the model was used to evaluate the effect of pulsed sparging on the removal rate of BTEX compounds. The pulsed sparging operation was approximated assuming uniform contaminant redistribution at the beginning of the shut-off period. The close comparison between the observed and simulated contaminant concentration in the aqueous phase showed that the approximation of the pulsed sparging operation yielded reasonable prediction of the removal process. Field heterogeneity was simulated using Monte Carlo analysis. The model predicted about 80-85% of the contaminant mass was removed by air-water mass transfer, which was similar to the average removal obtained by Monte Carlo analysis. The analysis of the removal/rebound cycles demonstrated that removal rate was controlled by the organic-aqueous distribution coefficient K(oc). Due to the lack of site-specific data, the aerobic first-order biodegradation coefficients (k(bio)) were obtained from a literature survey, therefore, uncertainty analysis of the k(bio) was conducted to evaluate the contribution of the aerobic biodegradation to total contaminant removal. Results of both case studies showed that biodegradation played a major role in the remediation of the contaminated sites.
Chemical behavior of residential lead in urban yards in the United States.	Long after federal regulations banned the use of lead-based paints and leaded gasoline, residential lead remains a persistent challenge. Soil lead is a significant contributor to this hazard and an improved understanding of physicochemical properties is likely to be useful for in situ abatement techniques such as phytoremediation and chemical stabilization. A laboratory characterization of high-lead soils collected from across the United States shows that the lead contaminants were concentrating in the silt and clay fractions, in the form of discrete particles of lead, as observed by scanning electron microscopy coupled with energy dispersive X-ray analysis. Soil lead varied widely in its solubility behavior as assessed by sequential and chelate extractions. Because site-specific factors (e.g., soil pH, texture, etc.) are believed to govern the solubility of the lead, understanding the variability in these characteristics at each site is necessary to optimize in situ remediation or abatement of these soils.
Allelopathy in crop/weed interactions--an update.	Since varietal differences in allelopathy of crops against weeds were discovered in the 1970s, much research has documented the potential that allelopathic crops offer for integrated weed management with substantially reduced herbicide rates. Research groups worldwide have identified several crop species possessing potent allelopathic interference mediated by root exudation of allelochemicals. Rice, wheat, barley and sorghum have attracted most attention. Past research focused on germplasm screening for elite allelopathic cultivars and the identification of the allelochemicals involved. Based on this, traditional breeding efforts were initiated in rice and wheat to breed agronomically acceptable, weed-suppressive cultivars with improved allelopathic interference. Promising suppressive crosses are under investigation. Molecular approaches have elucidated the genetics of allelopathy by QTL mapping which associated the trait in rice and wheat with several chromosomes and suggested the involvement of several allelochemicals. Potentially important compounds that are constitutively secreted from roots have been identified in all crop species under investigation. Biosynthesis and exudation of these metabolites follow a distinct temporal pattern and can be induced by biotic and abiotic factors. The current state of knowledge suggests that allelopathy involves fluctuating mixtures of allelochemicals and their metabolites as regulated by genotype and developmental stage of the producing plant, environment, cultivation and signalling effects, as well as the chemical or microbial turnover of compounds in the rhizosphere. Functional genomics is being applied to identify genes involved in biosynthesis of several identified allelochemicals, providing the potential to improve allelopathy by molecular breeding. The dynamics of crop allelopathy, inducible processes and plant signalling is gaining growing attention; however, future research should also consider allelochemical release mechanisms, persistence, selectivity and modes of action, as well as consequences of improved crop allelopathy on plant physiology, the environment and management strategies. Creation of weed-suppressive cultivars with improved allelopathic interference is still a challenge, but traditional breeding or biotechnology should pave the way.
Enhanced stability of hydrogen peroxide in the presence of subsurface solids.	The stabilization of hydrogen peroxide was investigated as a basis for enhancing its downgradient transport and contact with contaminants during catalyzed H(2)O(2) propagations (CHP) in situ chemical oxidation (ISCO). Stabilization of hydrogen peroxide was investigated in slurries containing four characterized subsurface solids using phytate, citrate, and malonate as stabilizing agents after screening ten potential stabilizers. The extent of hydrogen peroxide stabilization and the most effective stabilizer were solid-specific; however, phytate was usually the most effective stabilizer, increasing the hydrogen peroxide half-life to as much as 50 times. The degree of stabilization was nearly as effective at 10 mM concentrations as at 250 mM or 1 M concentrations. The effect of stabilization on relative rates of hydroxyl radical activity varied between the subsurface solids, but citrate and malonate generally had a greater positive effect than phytate. The effect of phytate, citrate, and malonate on the relative rates of superoxide generation was minimal to somewhat negative, depending on the solid. The results of this research demonstrate that the stabilizers phytate, citrate, and malonate can significantly increase the half-life of hydrogen peroxide in the presence of subsurface solids during CHP reactions while maintaining a significant portion of the reactive oxygen species activity. Use of these stabilizers in the field will likely improve the delivery of hydrogen peroxide and downgradient treatment during CHP ISCO.
Hot water flushing for immiscible displacement of a viscous NAPL.	Thermal remediation techniques, such as hot water flooding, are emerging technologies that have been proposed for the removal of nonaqueous phase liquids (NAPLs) from the subsurface. In this study a combined laboratory and modeling investigation was conducted to determine if hot water flooding techniques would improve NAPL mass removal compared to ambient temperature water flushing. Two experiments were conducted in a bench scale two-dimensional sandbox (55 cmx45 cmx1.3 cm) and NAPL saturations were quantified using a light transmission apparatus. In these immiscible displacement experiments the aqueous phase, at 22 degrees C and 50 degrees C, displaced a zone with initial NAPL saturations on the order of 85%. The interfacial tension and viscosity of the selected light NAPL, Voltesso 35, are strongly temperature-dependent. Experimental results suggest that hot water flooding reduced the size of the high NAPL saturation zone, in comparison to the cold water flood, and yielded greater NAPL mass recovery (75% NAPL removal vs. 64%). Hot water flooding did not, however, result in lower residual NAPL saturations. A numerical simulator was modified to include simultaneous flow of water and organic phases, energy transport, temperature and pressure. Model predictions of mass removal and NAPL saturation profiles compared well with observed behavior. A sensitivity analysis indicates that the utility of hot water flooding improves with the increasing temperature dependence of NAPL hydraulic properties.
Optimizing the molarity of a EDTA washing solution for saturated-soil remediation of trace metal contaminated soils.	Three experiments were conducted to optimize the use of ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) for reclaiming urban soils contaminated with trace metals. As compared to Na(2)EDTA, (NH(4))(2)EDTA extracted 60% more Zn and equivalent amounts of Cd, Cu and Pb from a sandy loam. When successively saturating and draining loamy sand columns during a washing cycle, which submerged it once with a (NH(4))(2)EDTA wash and four times with deionised water, the post-wash rinses largely contributed to the total cumulative extraction of Cd, Co, Cr, Cu, Mn, Ni, Pb and Zn. Both the washing solution and the deionised water rinses were added in a 2:5 liquid to soil (L:S) weight ratio. For equal amounts of EDTA, concentrating the washing solution and applying it and the ensuing rinses in a smaller 1:5 L:S weight ratio, instead of a 2:5 L:S weight ratio, increased the extraction of targeted Cr, Cu, Ni, Pb and Zn.
Partitioning of chloroaromatic compounds between the aqueous phase and dissolved and particulate soil organic matter at chlorophenol contaminated sites.	The retention and mobility of hydrophobic organic contaminants (HOCs) in soil is mainly determined by hydrophobic partitioning to dissolved and particulate organic matter (DOM and POM, respectively). The aqueous phase, DOM, and POM fractions were extracted and separated from soils at three sites contaminated with technical chlorophenol formulations. Concentrations of chlorophenols (CP), polychlorinated phenoxyphenols (PCPP), polychlorinated diphenyl ethers (PCDE) and polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and furans (PCDD/F) were determined. The partitioning to POM, in relation to DOM, increased in all three soils with increasing hydrophobicity in the order CP < PCPP ~ PCDE ~ PCDF < PCDD. Differences in partitioning to DOM (logK(DOC)) and POM (logK(POC)) could not be explained by differences in gross organic C chemistry. Black carbon did not contribute significantly to the sorption of PCDDs, whereas >70% wood fibre in one soil resulted in a decrease of logK(POC) of 0.5 units for CPs and PCDDs. We conclude that logK(OC) for both DOM and POM need to be explicitly determined when the retention and mobility of HOCs is described and modelled in soils.
Liming effects on cadmium stabilization in upland soil affected by gold mining activity.	To reduce cadmium (Cd) uptake of plants cultivated in heavy metal-contaminated soil, the best liming material was selected in the incubation test. The effect of the selected material was evaluated in the field. In the incubation experimentation, CaCO(3), Ca(OH)(2), CaSO(4).2H(2)O, and oyster shell meal were mixed with soil at rates corresponding to 0, 400, 800, 1600, 3200 mg Ca kg(-1). The limed soil was moistened to 70% of field moisture capacity, and incubated at 25 degrees C for 4 weeks. Ca(OH)(2) was found to be more efficient on reducing soil NH(4)OAc extractable Cd concentration, due to pH increase induced net negative charge. The selected Ca(OH)(2) was applied at rates 0, 2, 4, 8 Mg ha(-1) and then cultivated radish (Raphanus sativa L.) in the field. NH(4)OAc extractable Cd concentration of soil and plant Cd concentration decreased significantly with increasing Ca(OH)(2) rate, since alkaline-liming material markedly increased net negative charge of soil induced by pH increase, and decreased bioavailable Cd fractions (exchangeable + acidic and reducible Cd fraction) during radish cultivation. Cadmium uptake of radish could be reduced by about 50% by amending with about 5 Mg ha(-1) Ca(OH)(2) without adverse effect on radish yield and growth. The increase of net negative charge of soil by Ca(OH)(2) application may suppress Cd uptake and the competition between Ca(2+) and Cd(2+) may additionally affect the suppression of Cd uptake.
Monometal and competitive adsorption of heavy metals by sewage sludge-amended soil.	Sewage sludge-amended soils may alter their ability to adsorb heavy metals over time, due to the decomposition of sludge-borne organic matter. Thus, we studied Cd, Ni, and Zn adsorption by a sewage sludge-amended soil (Typic Xerofluvent) before and after one-year incubation in both monometal and competitive systems. In the monometal system, the order of decreasing sorption was Zn>Cd>Ni. Competition significantly reduced metal K(d), especially that of Cd which decreased by nearly 50%. Over the course of the incubation there was a 31% reduction of soil organic matter content. At the same time, in competitive systems Cd K(d) significantly decreased, while Zn K(d) significantly increased, and Ni K(d) remained unaffected. This study shows that sewage sludge-amended soils may change in their ability to sorb heavy metals over time at high metal concentrations. The data suggest that Cd is likely to be of most environmental significance in such soils, since it exhibited decreased sorption under competitive conditions and as the organic matter content of the soil was reduced. The potential for long-term release of metals should be considered in the risk assessment associated with sewage sludge addition to soils, particularly in climates where degradation of organic matter is likely to be enhanced.
Application of microbial hot spots enhances pesticide degradation in soils.	Through transfer of an active, isoproturon degrading microbial community, pesticide mineralization could be successfully enhanced in various soils under laboratory and outdoor conditions. The microbes, extracted from a soil having high native ability to mineralize this chemical, were established on expanded clay particles and distributed to various soils in the form of microbial "hot spots". Both, diffusion controlled isoproturon mass flow towards these "hot spots" (6microg d(-1)) as well as microbial ability to mineralize the herbicide (approximately 5microg d(-1)) were identified as the main processes enabling a multiple augmentation of the native isoproturon mineralization even in soils with heavy metal contamination. Soil pH-value appears to exert an important effect on the sustainability of this process.
Antimony availability in highly polluted soils and sediments - a comparison of single extractions.	Forest/tilled soils and stream sediments from the highly polluted mining and smelting district of Príbram, Czech Republic, were subjected to single extraction procedures in order to determine the available contents of Sb and As. The results obtained from five widely-used 2-h single extraction tests were compared: deionised water, 0.01M CaCl(2), 1M NH(4)NO(3), 0.005M diethylentriaminpentaacetic acid (DTPA) and 0.1M Na(2)HPO(4). The ICP-MS determinations of Sb and As in the extracts were coupled with measurements of pH and Eh and geochemical modelling (PHREEQC-2) to determine their speciation in extracts and possible solubility-controlling phases. According to the speciation calculations, Sb in extracts was present mainly as Sb(V) with the exception of the DTPA extracts from highly organic and acidic forest soils, where Sb(III) species accounted for up to 34% of total Sb speciation. The highest extractabilities were observed for the 0.1M Na(2)HPO(4) solution (up to 9% of the total Sb and up to 34% of the total As concentration). The other extracting media yielded statistically the same results (p<0.05) with Sb extractabilities below 2% and As extractabilities below 8%. Thus, simple deionised water and 0.1M Na(2)HPO(4) extractions are preferred for quick estimates of easily-exchangeable and specifically-sorbed Sb, respectively.
Improved retention of imidacloprid (Confidor) in soils by adding vermicompost from spent grape marc.	Batch sorption experiments of the insecticide imidacloprid by ten widely different Spanish soils were carried out. The sorption was studied for the active ingredient and its registered formulation Confidor. The temperature effect was studied at 15 degrees C and 25 degrees C. The addition of a vermicompost from spent grape marc (natural and ground), containing 344 g kg(-1) organic carbon, on the sorption of imidacloprid by two selected soils, a sandy loam and a silty clay loam, having organic carbon content of 3.6 g kg(-1) and 9.3 g kg(-1), respectively, was evaluated. Prior to the addition of this vermicompost, desorption isotherms with both selected soils, were also performed. The apparent hysteresis index (AHI) parameter was used to quantify sorption-desorption hysteresis. Sorption coefficients, K(d) and K(f), for the active ingredient and Confidor(R) in the different soils were similar. Sorption decreased with increasing temperature, this fact has special interest in greenhouse systems. A significant correlation (R(2)=0.965; P<0.01) between K(f) values and the organic carbon (OC) content was found, but some soils showed higher sorption coefficients than that expected from their OC values. The normalized sorption coefficients with the soil organic carbon content (K(oc)) were dispersed and low, implying that other characteristics of soils could contribute to the retention capacity as well. The spent grape marc vermicompost was an effective sorbent of this insecticide (K(f)=149). The sorption of imidacloprid increased significantly in soils amended with this vermicompost. The most pronounced effect was found in the sandy loam soil with low OC content, where the addition of 5% and 10% of vermicompost increased K(f) values by 8- and 15-fold, respectively. Soil desorption of imidacloprid was slower for the soil with the higher OC and clay content.
Impacts of simulated acid rain on cation leaching from the Latosol in south China.	Acid rain is a problem of increasing agricultural, environmental, and ecological concerns worldwide. This study investigated impacts of simulated acid rain (SAR) on cation leaching from the Latosol in south China. Latosol is an acidic red soil and occurs in the tropical rainforest biome. Laboratory experiments were performed by leaching the soil columns with the SAR at a pH range from 2.5 to 7.0 over a 21-day period. A linear increase in effluent K+ concentration was found at the SAR pH 3.0, whereas an exponential decrease in effluent Na+ concentration was observed at all levels of the SAR pH. In general, leaching of Ca2+ and Mg2+ from the Latosol increased as the SAR pH decreased. There was a very good nonlinear correlation between the removal of soil K+ and the SAR pH (R2=0.91), a good nonlinear correlation between the removal of soil Mg+2 and the SAR pH (R2=0.83), a fairly good nonlinear correlation between the removal of soil Ca+2 and the SAR pH (R2=0.56), and no correlation between the removal of soil Na+ and the SAR pH (R2=0.06). Our study further revealed that the removal of soil cations such as K+, Ca+2, and Mg+2 can be quantified by the quadratic polynomial equations. In addition, impacts of the SAR on cation leaching depended not only on the SAR pH but also on the original soil pH.
Dynamics of nitrogen in a PAHs contaminated soil amended with biosolid or vermicompost in the presence of earthworms.	Nitrogen mineralization in PAHs contaminated soil in presence of Eisenia fetida amended with biosolid or vermicompost was investigated. Sterilized and unsterilized soil was contaminated with PAHs, added with E. fetida and biosolid or vermicompost and incubated aerobically for 70 days, while dynamics of inorganic N were monitored. Addition of E. fetida to sterilized soil increased concentration of NH(4)(+) 100> mg N kg(-1), while concentrations in unsterilized remained <60 mg N kg(-1) except for soil amended with biosolid plus PAHs where it increased to >80 mg kg(-1). Addition of PAHs had no significant effect on concentration of NH(4)(+) compared to the unamended soil, except in the soil added with biosolid. Addition of E. fetida to sterilized soil increased concentration of NO(2)(-) 15> mg N kg(-1) while concentrations in unsterilized soil remained <7.5 mg N kg(-1) except for soil amended with biosolid where it increased to >20 mg kg(-1). Addition of PAHs had no significant effect on concentration of NO(2)(-) compared to the unamended soil. Addition of biosolid and vermicompost increased concentration of NO(3)(-), while addition of E. fetida decreased concentration of NO(3)(-) in biosolid amended soil. It was found that NH(4)(+) and NO(2)(-) oxidizers were present in the gut of E. fetida, but their activity was not sufficient enough to inhibit a temporarily increase in concentrations of NH(4)(+) and NO(2)(-). Contamination with PAHs induced immobilization of N in biosolid or vermicompost amended soil, as did feeding of E. fetida on biosolid or vermicompost.
Retention of organophosphorous insecticides on a calcareous soil modified by organic amendments and a surfactant.	Pesticides may affect soil quality since they are applied either directly to the soil or transported from the treated crops. Although the soil is able to partially retain environmental contaminants, the use of organic amendments, such as sewage sludge, peat or surfactants, may increase the retention in the upper soil layers, where the contaminants can be degraded and thus diminish their environmental fate. The effect of adding sewage sludge, peat and humic acids, together with a cationic surfactant to the soil, on the adsorption and desorption of organophosphorous insecticides has been studied. The results indicate that humic acids induce an adsorption increment of the pesticides, while peat and sewage sludge do not significantly affect pesticide adsorption at the dosage applied. The use of a cationic surfactant considerably enhances the insecticide retention. The increase was highest for the combined application of the surfactant and the humic acids. Desorption isotherms are inversely related to the adsorption behaviour, being higher for only soil, lower for soil added with carbon-rich amendments, and drastically reduced when the cationic surfactant is present. Concerning the insecticides, adsorption and desorption are related to their physicochemical properties.
Retention of pesticides in soil columns modified in situ and ex situ with a cationic surfactant.	A study of the effect of a clayey soil modified in situ and ex situ with the cationic surfactant octadecyltrimethylammonium bromide (ODTMA), on the retention of linuron, atrazine and metalaxyl was carried out. Leaching of these compounds was studied in columns of a natural clayey soil and the same clayey soil modified by direct injection of the surfactant in situ, and in columns of a natural sandy soil and the same sandy soil modified by intercalation of a barrier of the clayey soil saturated ex situ with the surfactant. Breakthrough curves indicated the total immobilization of linuron in modified soils and a decrease in the leaching kinetics of atrazine and metalaxyl compared to what was obtained in the natural soil. The results indicate the use of the clayey soil modified in situ or ex situ with the surfactant ODTMA could be of interest in the immobilization of pesticides of different hydrophobicities.
Chelate-assisted phytoextraction of heavy metals in a soil contaminated with a pyritic sludge.	The occurrence of many polluted areas as that affected by the accident of the Aznalcóllar pyrite mine has promoted phytoremediation as a technology able to reduce the risk of heavy metal contamination at low cost. White lupin plant has been considered a good candidate for phytoremediation. We studied the capacity of several complexing agents to improve the ability of white lupin for heavy metal phytoremediation in soils with multi-elemental pollution from acid pyritic sludge. Solution-soil interaction was studied and pot experiments with sludge-affected soil were carried out to this end. The interaction experiments indicated that EDTA and NTA were more efficient than malate and citrate in solubilizing metals (Fe, Mn, Cu, Zn, Cd), with minimum differences between EDTA and NTA. The pot trial showed that NTA was able to mobilize toxic elements from sludge-polluted soil and hence increasing their concentrations in plant (Mn, Cu, Zn, As, Cd). However, the NTA treatment promoted an increase of toxic elements concentrations, especially for As, Cd, Pb, in the lixiviates exceeding the maximum permissible levels, so a careful management of chelate is necessary.
Changes in chlorinated organic pollutants and heavy metal content of sediments during pyrolysis.	There has been an increasing concern about the treatment and disposal of contaminated sediment from dredged rivers, harbors or estuaries due to the accumulated toxic organics such as dioxins and inorganics, particularly heavy metals like Cr, Pb, Zn, Cu, Hg and Cd. However, considering the huge amount of materials and financial costs involved, any candidate technology must ultimately result in reusable, residual by-products. This can only be made possible if the toxic pollutants are removed or stabilized in the raw sediment and then fed back into the materials cycle. Currently, we are developing a pyrolysis process for the commercial-scale cleanup of dioxins and heavy metal-contaminated river sediment to yield reusable char for various economical applications. In this connection, this paper describes our preliminary investigation into the extent of dioxins and heavy metal volatilization from actual contaminated sediment. The stabilization of certain metallic species, particularly Cr ions, was studied.
Identification of pollution source of cadmium in soil: application of material flow analysis and a case study in Taiwan.	Since the 1970s, at least 200 hectares (ha) of farm-land has been polluted by the heavy metal cadmium (Cd). Consequently, the Cd pollution has led to contaminate the rice production and caused acute social panic. According to the recent investigation results performed by the Taiwan Environmental Protection Administration (TEPA), it is indicated that most of the Cd pollution incidents in Taiwan resulted from the waste-water discharge of stearate Cd factories. To prevent the Cd pollution incidents from spreading, the TEPA has either forced these factories to close down or assisted them in improving their production processes since the 1980s. Unfortunately, accidental incidents of Cd pollution still emerge in an endless stream, despite the strict governmental controls placed on these questionable factories. Whether this pollution has resulted from undetected or hidden pollution sources stemming from two decades ago or comes from some new source, will be an outstanding issue. Therefore, this study attempts to identify the pollution sources of Cd in soil in Taiwan as well as to find the solution to the above-mentioned, outstanding issue by way of a methodology termed Material Flow Analysis (MFA).
Removal of arsenic from contaminated soils using different salt extractants.	This study presents an environmental-friendly and cost effective method for the extraction of arsenic from contaminated soils. Laboratory experiments using inorganic salts, potassium phosphate (KH2PO4), potassium chloride (KCl), potassium nitrate (KNO3), potassium sulfate (K2SO4), and sodium perchlorate (NaClO4) were evaluated as arsenic extractants. An Andosol soil was artificially contaminated with arsenite [As(III)] and arsenate [As(V)]. The soil was washed in a batch process with different salt solutions in the pH range 3-11 for 24 hours at 20 degrees C. Among the various potassium and sodium salts tested, KH2PO4 was found to be highly effective in extracting arsenic from As(III)-soil attaining more than 80% and 40% from As(V)-soil in neutral pH range. Other salts were particularly ineffective in extraction of arsenic from both soils. More arsenic was extracted more from the As(III)-soil than the As(V)-soil.
The stability of butyltin compounds in a dredged heavily-contaminated sediment.	A treatment process for marine sediment heavily contaminated with tributyltin (TBT) was designed that included dehydrating, sunlight drying and dumping processes. The time course in butyltin (BTs) compounds, TBT, dibutyltin (DBT) and monobutyltin concentrations were investigated in the sediment treated under various conditions (light (UV, sunlight and light exclusion), moisture (air-drying and water saturation) and wetting and drying cycles). Significant changes in all the BT compound concentrations with time were not found regardless of the sediment conditions for light and moisture. The results indicated the high stabilities of TBT and DBT in the sediments versus light and moisture condition changes, probably taking place in the treatment process. It is also estimated that the BTs in the sediment are resistant to photo-degradation and biochemical degradation and their half lives are relatively long. In contrast, the decreases in the TBT and DBT were observed during the wetting and drying cycle treatment for the water saturated sediment both during exposure to sunlight and under a dark condition. This result suggested the hypothesis that the TBT degradation could be accelerated by the high microbial activity induced by the moisture changing treatments.
Rhizoremediation of pentachlorophenol by Sphingobium chlorophenolicum ATCC 39723.	Sphingobium chlorophenolicum is well known as a pentachlorophenol (PCP) degrader. The objective of this study was to evaluate PCP degradation in a loamy sandy soil artificially contaminated with PCP using phytoremediation and bioaugmentation. Measurements of PCP concentrations were carried out using high performance liquid chromatography analyses (HPLC). The toxic effect of PCP on plants was studied through the monitoring of weight plant and root length. The biodegradation of PCP by S. chlorophenolicum in soil was assessed with a bioluminescence assay of Escherichia coli HB101 pUCD607. Bacterial analyses were carried out by plating on Mineral Salt Medium (MSM) for S. chlorophenolicum, MSM for PCP-degrading/tolerant organisms and Trypticase Soy Broth Agar (TSBA) for heterotrophic organisms. The introduction of S. chlorophenolicum into soil with plants showed a faster degradation when compared to the non-inoculated soil. The monitoring of the plant growth showed a protective role of S. chlorophenolicum against the toxicity of PCP. The bioassay confirmed that initial toxicity was lowered while degradation progressed. There was a significant increase of organisms tested in the roots in comparison to those in the soil. This study showed that the presence of S. chlorophenolicum enhanced the PCP degradation in a loamy soil and also it had a protective role to prevent phytotoxic effects of PCP on plant growth. The combined use of bioaugmentation and plants suggests that the rhizosphere of certain plant species may be important for facilitating microbial degradation of pesticides in soil with important implications for using vegetation to stabilize and remediate surface soils.
Effects of short-chain chlorinated paraffins on soil organisms.	Despite the fact that chlorinated paraffins have been produced in relatively large amounts, and high concentrations have been found in sewage sludge applied to soils, there is little information on their concentrations in soils and the effect on soil organisms. The aim of this study was to investigate the toxicity of chlorinated paraffins in soils. The effects of short-chain chlorinated paraffins (64% chlorine content) on invertebrates (Eisenia fetida, Folsomia candida, Enchytraeus albidus, Enchytraeus crypticus, Caenorhabditis elegans) and substrate-induced respiration of indigenous microorganisms were studied. Differences were found in the sensitivity of the tested organisms to short-chain chlorinated paraffins. F. candida was identified as the most sensitive organism with LC(50) and EC(50) values of 5733 and 1230 mg/kg, respectively. Toxicity results were compared with available studies and the predicted no effect concentration (PNEC) of 5.28 mg/kg was estimated for the soil environment, based on our data.
Influence of 15N enrichment on the net isotopic fractionation factor during the reduction of nitrate to nitrous oxide in soil.	Nitrous oxide, a greenhouse gas, is mainly emitted from soils during the denitrification process. Nitrogen stable-isotope investigations can help to characterise the N(2)O source and N(2)O production mechanisms. The stable-isotope approach is increasingly used with (15)N natural abundance or relatively low (15)N enrichment levels and requires a good knowledge of the isotopic fractionation effect inherent to this biological mechanism. This paper reports the measurement of the net and instantaneous isotopic fractionation factor (alpha(s/p) (i)) during the denitrification of NO(3) (-) to N(2)O over a range of (15)N substrate enrichments (0.37 to 1.00 atom% (15)N). At natural abundance level, the isotopic fractionation effect reported falls well within the range of data previously observed. For (15)N-enriched substrate, the value of alpha(s/p) (i) was not constant and decreased from 1.024 to 1.013, as a direct function of the isotopic enrichment of the labelled nitrate added. However, for enrichment greater than 0.6 atom% (15)N, the value of alpha(s/p) (i) seems to be independent of substrate isotopic enrichment. These results suggest that for isotopic experiments applied to N(2)O emissions, the use of low (15)N-enriched tracers around 1.00 atom% (15)N is valid. At this enrichment level, the isotopic effect appears negligible in comparison with the enrichment of the substrate.
Arsenic fractionation and bioaccessibility in two alkaline Texas soils incubated with sodium arsenate.	Elevated arsenic (As) concentrations in urban soils with prolonged arsenical pesticide application history have increased the risk associated with accidental hand-to-mouth soil ingestion by children. Earlier work by the authors suggested that the conservative statement of 100% As bioaccessibility in soils was not valid for a set of acidic soils incubated with sodium arsenate. In this study, two alkaline Texas soils incubated with a commonly used As pesticide (sodium arsenate) were evaluated for their potential in reducing soil As bioaccessibility. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of incubation time and As load on soil As fractionation and bioaccessibility. Soils were subjected to a sequential As fractionation scheme, and bioaccessible As was quantified using an in vitro stomach phase test. Results showed a reduction in the water-soluble As fraction with incubation time (after 4 months), which remained unchanged after 12 months. This reduction with time was accompanied by an increase in the NaOH- and H(2)SO(4)-extractable As fractions, suggesting As sorption by amorphous Fe/Al hydroxides and/or Ca/Mg compounds, respectively. Organic/sulfides-bound As increased with incubation time after 12 months but not after 4 months of incubation. The aging effect was also observed with the amount of bioaccessible As at all As loads, showing significant positive correlations with the water-extractable and exchangeable As fractions. Bioaccessible As concentrations even after 12 months of incubation were not significantly reduced, suggesting that natural attenuation might prove inadequate to control As bioaccessibility in these alkaline soils.
Mobilization of heavy metals from contaminated paddy soil by EDDS, EDTA, and elemental sulfur.	For enhanced phytoextraction, mobilization of heavy metals (HMs) from the soil solid phase to soil pore water is an important process. A pot incubation experiment mimicking field conditions was conducted to investigate the performance of three soil additives in mobilizing HMs from contaminated paddy soil (Gleyi-Stagnic Anthrosol): the [S, S]-isomer of ethylenediamine disuccinate (EDDS) with application rates of 2.3, 4.3, and 11.8 mmol kg(-1) of soil, ethylenediamine tetraacetate (EDTA; 1.4, 3.8, and 7.5 mmol kg(-1)), and elemental sulfur (100, 200, and 400 mmol kg(-1)). Temporal changes in soil pore water HM and dissolved organic carbon concentrations and pH were monitored for a period of 119 days. EDDS was the most effective additive in mobilizing soil Cu. However, EDDS was only effective during the first 24 to 52 days, and was readily biodegraded with a half-life of 4.1 to 8.7 days. The effectiveness of EDDS decreased at the highest application rate, most probably as a result of depletion of the readily desorbable Cu pool in soil. EDTA increased the concentrations of Cu, Pb, Zn, and Cd in the soil pore water, and remained effective during the whole incubation period due to its persistence. The highest rate of sulfur application led to a decrease in pH to around 4. This increased the pore water HM concentrations, especially those of Zn and Cd. Concentrations of HMs in the soil pore water can be regulated to a large extent by choosing the proper application rate of EDDS, EDTA, or sulfur. Hence, a preliminary work such as our pot experiment in combination with further plant experiments (not included in this study) will provide a good tool to evaluate the applicability of different soil additives for enhanced phytoextraction of a specific soil.
Improving the adsorption capacity and solid structure of natural volcanic soil using a foaming-sintering process based on recycled polyethylene terephthalate (PET).	The volcanic soils of southern Chile have demonstrated a high capacity to adsorb environmental pollutants, but for an industrial application, a stable solid material is necessary. The objective of this work was to produce a stable ceramic material through a process involving volcanic soil-polyurethane foam produced with recycled polyethylene terephthalate (PET)-polyols, and further thermal treatment. The selected foam formulation with 35.4% volcanic soil (< 63 microm) seems to be the most suitable for thermal treatment, with temperature steps at 700, 850, 1000 and 1200 degrees C. The porous ceramic material obtained has a stable solid form and an improved chlorophenols adsorption capacity (comparable to natural zeolites) that makes it suitable for advanced wastewater treatment and landfill leachate depuration.
Temporal moisture content variability beneath and external to a building and the potential effects on vapor intrusion risk assessment.	Migration of vapors from organic chemicals residing in the subsurface into overlying buildings is known as vapor intrusion. Because of the difficulty in evaluating vapor intrusion by indoor air sampling, models are often employed to determine if a potential indoor inhalation exposure pathway exists and, if such a pathway is complete, whether long-term exposure increases the occupants' risk for cancer or other toxic effects to an unacceptable level. For site-specific vapor intrusion assessments, moisture content is, at times, determined from soil cores taken in open spaces between buildings. However, there is little published information on how moisture content measured outside a building structure compares with the moisture content directly beneath the building - where the values are most critical for vapor intrusion assessments. This research begins to address these issues by investigating the movement of soil moisture next to and beneath a building at a contaminated field site and determining the effect on vapor intrusion risk assessment. A two-dimensional, variably-saturated water flow model, HYDRUS-2D, is used with 2 years of hourly, local rainfall data to simulate subsurface moisture content in the vicinity of a hypothetical 10 x 10-m building slab at a contaminated field site. These moisture content values are used in vapor intrusion risk assessment simulations using the Johnson and Ettinger model with instantaneous and averaged moisture contents. Results show that vapor intrusion risk assessments based on moisture content determined from soil cores taken external to a building structure may moderately-to-severely underestimate the vapor intrusion risk from beneath the structure. Soil under the edges of a slab may be influenced by rainfall events and may show reduced vapor intrusion risk as a consequence. Data from a building instrumented with subslab moisture probes showed results similar to the modeling, but with a smaller difference between the subslab and outside average moisture contents. These results indicate that, depending upon the point of vapor ingress into the structure and soil type, risk-based cleanup concentrations based on outside-of-slab or default moisture content values may not be predictive of exposure to organic vapors from below a building.
Combined effect of diuron and simazine on photosystem II photochemistry in a sandy soil and soil amended with solid olive-mill waste.	Diuron (3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)- = 1,1-dimethylurea) and simazine (6-chloro-N(2), N(4)-diethyl-1,3,5-triazine-2,4-diamine) are soil-applied herbicides used in olive crops. The objective of this study is to investigate the effect of these herbicides on Photosystem II photochemistry of Olea europaea L., and whether the amendment of soil with an organic waste (OW) from olive oil production industry modifies this effect. For this purpose, herbicide soil adsorption studies, with unamended and OW-amended soil, and chlorophyll fluorescence measurements in adult olive leaves, after one, two and three weeks of soil herbicide treatment and/or OW amendment, were performed. Soil application of these herbicides reduced the efficiency of Photosystem II photochemistry of olive trees due to chronic photoinhibition, and this effect is counterbalanced by the addition of OW to the soil. OW reduces herbicide uptake by the plant due to an increase in herbicide adsorption.
Sample drying effects on lead bioaccessibility in reduced soil.	Risk-assessment tests of contaminated wetland soils often use experimental protocols that artificially oxidize the soils. Oxidation may impact bioavailability of contaminants from the soils, creating erroneous results and leading to improper management and remediation. The goal of this study was to determine if oxygenation of reduced sediments and soils influences Pb bioaccessibility measurements. The study site is located on the Coeur d'Alene River floodplain, downstream from the Silver Valley Mining District in Idaho. A physiologically based extraction test designed to simulate the gastrointestinal tract of waterfowl (W-PBET) was used to measure relative Pb bioavailability (bioaccessibility) from the soils. The soils were collected from a submerged wetland. One set of samples was allowed to air-dry, another set was freeze-dried, and a third set was analyzed wet. The wet soil showed decreased Pb bioaccessibility compared with the air- and freeze-dried soils. The changes in extractability of Fe and Mn on air-drying were opposite from each other: Fe extractability decreased while Mn increased. The results from this study show that redox changes may have significant impacts on Pb bioavailability, and should be considered when assessing Pb contamination risks in reduced soils.
Chemical fixation of metals in soil using bone char and assessment of the soil genotoxicity]	We evaluate the effects of soil in situ remediation by application of bone char as a soil amendment based on chemical and biological assessment. The application of bone char decreased the Pb in the in the water soluble (WS), exchangeable (EX), carbonate-bound (CAR) and Fe-Mn oxides-Bound (Fe-Mn) fraction but increased the Pb in organic-bound (ORG) fraction indicating the decreased bioavailability of Pb. The application of bone char decreased the Cd, Cu and Zn in water soluble, exchangeable, carbonate-bound fraction by increasing substantial amounts of heavy metals in the ORG fraction or Residual (RES) fraction. The soil genotoxicity was evaluated using plant comet assay of root tip cells of Allium cepa L. and the results indicated that bone char application reduced genotoxcity of heavy metals, decreasing the DNA damages in plants which was consistent with the changes of the chemical forms of Pb, Cd, Cu and Zn indicating the changes of the chemical forms of heavy metals may be one of the reasons for decreased soil genotoxicity.
Effect of microorganism for polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) sorption on surface sediments and soils]	Influence of microorganism for polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) sorption on surface sediments and soils in Yellow River Delta was studied. The results indicated that phenanthrene and benzo[a]pyrene could be adsorbed or biodegraded by Bacillus subtilis, and 98% phenanthrene and 85% benzo[a]pyrene was eliminated by microorganism in adsorption process. Sorption isotherms of soils and sediments with and without microorganism were described by linear isotherm equation. Adsorption capacity of samples with microorganism increased about 35 times than that of without microorganism, but benzo[a] pyrene adsorption capacity decreased about 2/3. In desorption process, samples with microorganism desorbed less phenanthrene than without microorganism, but more benzo[a]pyrene. Microorganism plays an important role in adsorption process.
Study on phosphorus(P) fixation in the sediment of lake using the clays modified by LaCl3]	14 kinds of clay modified by LaCl3 were prepared and their phosphorus(P) fixation was studied. The effect of pH on adsorption rate of P using kaolin modified by LaCl3 and dissolved concentration of La3+ from them were also discussed. The results showed that the fixation rates of P using clay modified by LaCl3 were improved to 52% - 95% from 3% - 14% using unmodified clay. The maximum adsorption rate of P using kaolin modified by LaCl3 was 94.85% on the pH value of 5. Under the condition of pH range from 4 to 8, the P adsorption rate was higher than 80%. When the pH value was higher than 6.5, the dissolved concentration of La3+ from the modified clay was lower than 0.017 8 mg/L.
An improved method for the extraction of low molecular weight organic acids in variable charge soils.	Due to specific adsorption to variable charge soils, low molecular weight organic acids (LMWOAs) have not been sufficiently extracted, even if common extractants, such as water and 0.1 M sodium hydroxide (NaOH), were employed. In this work, the method for extracting LMWOAs in soils with 0.1 M NaOH was improved for variable charge soils; e.g. 1.0 M potassium fluoride (KF) with pH 4.0 was applied as an extractant jointed with 0.1 M NaOH based on its stronger ability to change the electrochemical properties of variable charge soils by specific adsorption. With the proposed method, the recoveries of oxalic, tartaric, malic, citric and fumaric acids were increased from 83 +/- 4, 93 +/- 1, 22 +/- 2, 63 +/- 5 and 84 +/- 3% to 98 +/- 2, 100 +/- 2, 85 +/- 2, 90 +/- 2 and 89 +/- 2%, respectively, compared with NaOH alone. Simultaneously, the LMWOAs in Agri-Udic Ferrosol with field moisture were measured with a satisfactory result.
Dynamics of lead (Pb) in different soil conditions.	Four soil samples were collected from various locations having wider range of pH and EC for incubation experiment. These soil samples were added with Pb (NO3)2 salts, and samples were taken on 1st, 35th, 45thand 60th day. Soils samples were fractioned by sequential extraction to estimate the concentration of lead in different fractions viz, water soluble, exchangeable +adsorbed, organic, carbonate and residual fraction. The result reveals that concentration of organic and carbonate bound-Pb was high in waterlogged condition and soil pH has been comprehensively identified as the single most important soil factor controlling the availability of lead (Pb) in soil. Low content of Pb in exchangeable + adsorbed (KNO3) and water soluble (H2O) fraction in all soils (except in S1) could signify low availability of Pb to plants. Bioavailable fractions, viz. water soluble and exchangeable + adsorbed, were low in all soils (except S1) well below critical limits, which may not pose any toxicity in the food chain.
Interaction of soil, water and TNT during degradation of TNT on contaminated soil using subcritical water.	Subcritical water was used at laboratory scale to reveal information with respect to the degradation mechanism of TNT on contaminated soil. Highly contaminated soil (12% TNT) was heated with water at four different temperatures, 150, 175, 200 and 225 degrees C and samples were obtained at appropriate time intervals. At the same time, similar experiments were performed with TNT spiked on to clean soil, sand and pure water in order to compare and eliminate various factors that may be present in the more complex contaminated soil system. Subcritical water was successful at remediating TNT-contaminated soil. TNT destruction percentages ranged between 98 and 100%. The aim of this work was to study the soil-water-contaminant interaction and determine the main physical parameters that affect TNT degradation. It was shown that the rate-limiting step of the process is the extraction/diffusion of TNT molecules from the soil core to the soil surface, where they degrade. Additionally, it was determined that the soil matrix also catalyses degradation to a lesser extent. Autocatalytic effects were not clearly observed.
In situ stabilization of chromium(VI) in polluted soils using organic ligands: the role of galacturonic, glucuronic and alginic acids.	Laboratory batch sorption and column experiments were performed to investigate the role of organic ligands such as galacturonic, glucuronic and alginic acids (main constituents of bacterial exopolymeric substances (EPS)) on Cr(VI) uptake and transport in heterogeneous subsurface media. Our batch sorption experiments demonstrate the addition of galacturonic, glucuronic and alginic acids to soils enhances Cr(VI) uptake by soil at pH values <7.7 depending on the concentration of the ligand and pH used. The enhanced Cr(VI) uptake at pH values <7.7 may be explained through either the catalytic reduction of Cr(VI) to Cr(III) by the surface-bound organic matter/Fe oxides and/or the dissolved metal ions (e.g., Fe(III)) from the soil. On the other hand, organic ligands have no or little effect on Cr(VI) uptake under highly alkaline pH conditions since the catalytic Cr(VI) reduction decreases with increasing pH. Similarly, the results from column experiments show that, depending on the concentration of organic ligands, the Cr(VI) breakthrough curves were significantly retarded relative to the organic acid-free systems at pH 7.6. A significant portion of Cr(VI) initially added to the feed solution was not readily recoverable in the effluent, indicating Cr(VI) reduction in columns, most probably catalyzed by surface-bound metal-oxides (e.g., Fe oxides) or dissolved metal ions such as Fe(II; III). The overall results suggest that EPS constituents such as glucuronic, galacturonic and alginic acids may play a significant role on Cr(VI) stabilization in subsurface systems under acidic to slightly alkaline pH conditions.
Effects of platinum from vehicle exhaust catalyst on carbon and nitrogen mineralization in soils.	There is strong evidence of continuously increasing contamination of soils with platinum group elements (PGE), in particular with platinum (Pt) from vehicle exhaust catalysts in roadside soils. However, knowledge about the effects of Pt contamination on soil processes is very limited. The objective of this study was to investigate whether the contamination of soils with Pt at realistic environmental levels leads to observable adverse effects on selected indicator parameters of the carbon and nitrogen turnover in soils. Incubation experiments with artificially contaminated soils and solutions containing dissolved organic matter (DOM) were carried out by the use of milled material from a Pt-containing vehicle exhaust catalyst. Interaction of the catalyst material with the soil resulted in a mobilization of Pt into the dissolved phase reaching up to 0.1% of the added Pt. The amount of Pt mobilization seemed to be mainly driven by the pH of the soil. Mineralization of carbon and nitrogen did not reveal any significant adverse effect of the Pt addition as compared to the control samples. Future studies dealing with Pt effects on soil processes should focus on environmental conditions favoring Pt mobilization, e.g. such as very low pH values or large concentrations of DOM.
A comparison of sediment quality guidelines for toxicity assessment in the Sunderban wetlands (Bay of Bengal, India).	The aim of this paper was to obtain the first screening ecotoxicological risk evaluation in the Sunderban wetlands, the largest prograding delta in the estuarine phase of the River Ganges. The characterization of exposure was conducted by means of an extensive survey of several persistent organic pollutants (PAHs, PCBs, DDTs, PBDEs, HCHs, HCB) measured in seven core sediments from the Sunderban wetlands, obtaining a dataset with more than 2200 analyses. The pollutant effects were assessed by the use of three different sediment quality guidelines (SQGs) previously developed in the literature to evaluate toxicity induced in sediment-dwelling organisms. The three different approaches chosen for risk assessment of the Sunderban were the consensus SQGs obtained by TEC (threshold effect concentration), PEC (probable effect concentration) and EEC (extreme effect concentration), the threshold/probable effect level (TEL/PEL) approach and, finally, the ERL-ERM guidelines, including the m-ERM-Q (mean ERM quotient). The evaluation of the toxicity induced by a mixture of the target pollutants indicated the importance of gamma-HCH contamination in the Sunderban sediments despite the very low concentrations measured in core sediments. A different sensitivity for toxicity assessment due to quality guidelines was obtained, as the consensus SQGs based on TEC were less conservative and protective than the TEL and ERL approaches, while the use of m-ERM-Q seems to be the most powerful tool to predict the toxicity related to a contaminant mixture.
Distribution of hexachlorocyclohexane isomers in soil samples from a small scale industrial area of Lucknow, North India, associated with lindane production.	Concentrations of hexachlorocyclohexane isomers (alpha-HCH, beta-HCH, gamma-HCH, and delta-HCH) were studied in soils samples collected from a small scale industrial unit of Lucknow associated with lindane production. All four isomers were detected from ten sites and the total HCH isomers in the analyzed samples varied from 53 to 99mgkg(-1). Cluster analysis was performed to group the soil sites in terms of their HCH contamination level. Low alpha/gamma HCH ratios were found and they indicate recent input of HCH. There is an urgent need for the on-site remediation of these contaminated sites in order to prevent the long-term environmental pollution.
Phytostabilisation of arsenical gold mine tailings using four Eucalyptus species: growth, arsenic uptake and availability after five years.	Arsenic (As) contamination is a worldwide problem. Where arsenic is highly concentrated and confined within a limited area, such as in many mine tailings facilities, phytostabilisation is an attractive technology for long-term remediation. Important characteristics of a plant to be useful for phytostabilisation include As tolerance and low levels of As accumulation, as well as the ability to limit As availability. Performance needs to be monitored over the long term to ensure an ongoing vegetation community, though this is rarely done. In this study, the suitability of four Eucalyptus species (E. cladocalyx, E. melliodora, E. polybractea, E. viridis) for the phytostabilisation of arsenical, sulphidic gold mine tailings was assessed after five years. All four species accumulated low As concentrations, the highest being recorded in mature leaves, ranging from 0.29 to 5.14 microg g(-1) As. E. polybractea had significantly higher foliar As than the other three species but there was also great variation within the species. Between 5-10 times lower concentrations were recorded in stem samples and no As was detected in young leaf tips. There was also significant variation in the growth of trees upon the site. Eucalyptus cladocalyx grew significantly taller than other species although greater variation was detected within the species than between. The variation in tree heights was not correlated with As concentrations in either stems or leaves. Arsenic availability was determined to depths of 2.2 m and found to be low when compared to total As in the tailings. Importantly, no effect of trees on As availability or soil pH was detected. We conclude that E. cladocalyx, in particular is an ideal candidate for the long-term phytostabilisation of As-contaminated land and mine tailings. The variation detected in both As accumulation and growth is also promising for the selection of desirable traits.
Spatial distribution and characterization of long-term aged 14C-labeled atrazine residues in soil.	The long-term behavior of the herbicide atrazine and its metabolites in the environment is of continued interest in terms of risk assessment and soil quality monitoring. Aqueous desorption, detection, and quantification of atrazine and its metabolites from an agriculturally used soil were performed 22 years after the last atrazine application. A lysimeter soil containing long-term aged atrazine for >20 years was subdivided into 10 and 5 cm layers (at the lysimeter bottom: soil 0-50 and 50-55 cm; fine gravel 55-60 cm depth, implemented for drainage purposes) to identify the qualitative and quantitative differences of aged (14)C-labeled atrazine residues depending on the soil profile and chemico-physical conditions of the individual soil layers. Deionized water was used for nonexhaustive cold water shaking extraction of the soil. With increasing soil depth, the amount of previously applied (14)C activity decreased significantly from 8.8% to 0.7% at 55-60 cm depth whereas the percentage of desorbed (14)C residues in each soil layer increased from 2% to 6% of the total (14)C activity in the sample. The only metabolite detectable by means of LC-MS/MS was 2-hydroxyatrazine while most of the residual (14)C activity was bound to the soil and was not desorbed. The amount of desorbed 2-hydroxyatrazine decreased with increasing soil depth from 21% to 10% of the total desorbed (14)C residue fraction. The amount of (14)C residues in the soil layers correlated well with the carbon content in the soil and in the aqueous soil extracts ( p value = 0.99 and 0.97, respectively), which may provide evidence of the binding behavior of the aged atrazine residues on soil carbon. The lowest coarse layer (55-60 cm) showed increased residual (14)C activity leading to the assumption that most (14)C residues were leached from the soil column over time.
Field aging of insecticides after repeated application to a northern Thailand ultisol.	Field aging immobilizes pollutants and reduces their toxicity, but it also boosts their accumulation and holds the risk of future release. We investigated the aging of six insecticides (water solubilities: 0.33 mg L (-1)-completely miscible) applied five times (10-day intervals) to a tropical fruit orchard under natural weather conditions. After sequential extractions of soil samples with 0.01 M CaCl 2, methanol (MeOH), and acetone/ethylacetate/water (AEW), a conventional ( K OC(app) = [ c(MeOH) + c(AEW)]/ c(CaCl 2), normalized to soil organic carbon) and a newly introduced distribution ratio (MAR = MeOH/AEW ratio; c(MeOH)/ c(AEW)) were calculated. Field half-lives of the insecticides correlated with K OC(app) but not with MAR, which might reflect that dissipation was significantly affected by abiotic processes. The extent of aging was related to hydrophobicity of the compounds and most pronounced for endosulfan (3-fold increase in K OC(app) within 84 days). For dimethoate, this increase was even steeper (5- to 10-fold within 10 days), which was, however, mostly caused by dissipation from labile pools rather than by aging. The K OC(app) of chlorpyrifos remained constant, but a significant decrease in MAR ( r = -0.78) revealed that sorption strength increased nevertheless. Results for malathion were ambiguous. Within the time frame of our study, neither K OC(app) nor MAR gave evidence for the aging of mevinphos. The different dynamics of K OC(app) and MAR for the six insecticides studied indicate that different aging mechanisms or rates, or both control the fate of the individual insecticides, which can potentially be revealed by sequential exctraction procedures.
Effect of Cd on remediation of DDT contaminated soil using different laccase forms]	This study investigated the effect of Cd on remediation of DDT contaminated soil using free laccase and immobilized reversed micelles laccase. The results show: degradation rates of ingredients of DDT and total DDT reduced with increasing of Cd concentration, the higher percentage of components in total DDT, the greater impact of Cd on them. Degradation rates of different components were p, p'-DDT > p, p'-DDD > o,p'-DDT > p, p'-DDE. When Cd concentration was 0, 0.5, 1 and 2 mg x kg(-1), the responding degradation rates of DDTs were measured at 50.68%, 32.50%, 14.92% and 13.40%, respectively. Compared with free laccase, degradation rate of total DDT by immobilized reversed micelles laccase nearly increased by 20% in soil without Cd and 30% in soil with 0.5 mg x kg(-1) Cd, implying that immobilized reversed micelles laccase is more effective for DDT degradation than free laccase.
Effect of concomitant substances and addition order on the adsorption of Tween 80 on sand]	Adsorption of Tween 80 on sand was investigated, and the effect of inorganic salts (CaCl2), anionic surfactant (SDS) and lignosulphonates (sodium lignosulphonate or ammonium lignosulphonate) on the adsorption of Tween 80 on sand were evaluated at 25 degrees C. The results show that saturated adsorption amount of Tween 80 on sand enhance when CaCl2 or SDS is added into flushing solution of Tween 80. And the adsorption of Tween 80 on sand increase with the increase of molar fraction of CaCl2 or SDS in mixed flushing solution. And adsorption amount of Tween 80 on sand also enhance when SDS is added into sand firstly. The effects of mixing ratios and addition order of lignosulphonates on adsorption of Tween 80 were considered. The results show that with the increase of molar fraction of lignosulphonates in mixing flushing solution, adsorption amount of Tween 80 on sand decrease. The adsorption amount of Tween 80 reduce 20%-75% due to the exist of ammonium lignosulphonate is superior to sodium lignosulphonate (10%-60%) when mix the lignosulphonates-Tween 80 at the total mass ratios of 1:10, while the adsorption amount of Tween 80 reduce 70%-90% at the total mass ratios of 1:2. Lignosulphonates added into sand firstly is more efficient than that together. Therefore,use of lignosulphonates as a preflush can reduce the adsorption of surfactants on sand and is a better method to applied in in situ flushing.
Microbial degradation of acetochlor in mollisol and the effects of acetochlor on the characteristics of soil phospholipid fatty acids]	An incubation test was conducted with mollisol applied with recommended amount of acetochlor under the conditions of sterilization, microbial inhibitor addition, and non-sterilization. During incubation, the residual amount of acetochlor and the dynamics of soil phospholipid fatty acids (PLFAs) were determined to study the relative contribution of soil microbes on the degradation of applied acetochlor, and the effects of acetochlor on the soil microbial community structure. The results showed that acetochlor was easy to be degraded by soil microbes, and bacteria contributed more than fungi. After applying acetochlor, the contents of various PLFAs changed evidently, and the soil microbial biomass indicated by C14:0, C16:0 and C18:0 was decreased. The bacterial PLFAs decreased significantly at the beginning of the incubation, but had less difference with CK (no acetochlor application) later, suggesting that bacterial activity was restored along with the degradation of acetochlor. The content of fungal PLFAs in the soil samples applied with acetochlor was lower than that of CK, implying that the inhibition of the herbicide to fungi was chronic and irreversible.
Application effect, affecting factors, and evaluation of nitrification inhibitor: a review]	The agronomic, environmental, and ecological significances of applying nitrification inhibitor (NI) have been demonstrated by many researches, but the efficiency of NI application was affected by many factors. In this paper, the effects of NI on soil N transformation, nitrate leaching and greenhouse gases emission, fertilizer N use efficiency, yield and quality of agricultural products, and availability of soil nutrients besides N were reviewed, and the factors affecting the efficiency of NI application as well as the evaluation criteria of NI were summarized.
Mass transfer model of nanoparticle-facilitated contaminant transport in saturated porous media.	A one-dimensional model has been evaluated for transport of hydrophobic contaminants, such as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) compounds, facilitated by synthetic amphiphilic polyurethane (APU) nanoparticles in porous media. APU particles synthesized from poly(ethylene glycol)-modified urethane acrylate (PMUA) precursor chains have been shown to enhance the desorption rate and mobility of phenanthrene (PHEN) in soil. A reversible process governed by attachment and detachment rates was considered to describe the PMUA binding in soil in addition to PMUA transport through advection and dispersion. Ultimately, an irreversible second-order PMUA attachment rate in which the fractional soil saturation capacity with PMUA was a rate control was found to be adequate to describe the retention of PMUA particles. A gamma-distributed site model (GS) was used to describe the spectrum of physical/chemical constraints for PHEN transfer from solid to aqueous phases. Instantaneous equilibrium was assumed for PMUA-PHEN interactions. The coupled model for PMUA and PHEN behavior successfully described the enhanced elution profile of PHEN by PMUA. Sensitivity analysis was performed to analyze the significance of model parameters on model predictions. The adjustable parameter alpha in the gamma-distribution shapes the contaminant desorption distribution profile as well as elution and breakthrough curves. Model simulations show the use of PMUA can be also expected to improve the release rate of PHEN in soils with higher organic carbon content. The percentage removal of PHEN mass over time is shown to be influenced by the concentration of PMUA added and this information can be used to optimize cost and time require to accomplish a desired remediation goal.
Effect of spent mushroom substrate amendment of vineyard soils on the behavior of fungicides: 1. Adsorption-desorption of penconazole and metalaxyl by soils and subsoils.	The effect of the addition of fresh and composted spent mushroom substrates (F-SMS and C-SMS) to vineyard soils on the adsorption-desorption of penconazole and metalaxyl was studied under laboratory conditions. SMS is a promising agricultural residue as an amendment to increase the soil organic matter (OM) content. It may also modify the behavior of fungicides applied to vineyards. Freundlich Kf adsorption constants of both fungicides by soils and subsoils from three experimental plots unamended and amended in the field ranged between 2.78 and 13.4 (penconazole) and 0.14 and 0.67 (metalaxyl) with scant differences for unamended soil and subsoil. However, Kf values of amended soils were higher than those corresponding to subsoils and generally higher than those of unamended soils (up to 2.3 times for penconazole and 1.3 times for metalaxyl). The influence of SMS treatment (fresh or composted) was observed in the adsorption of the most hydrophobic fungicide penconazole. Simple and multiple correlations between soil and subsoil properties and adsorption constants indicated the influence of the OM on the adsorption of both fungicides, together with the clay, silt, and CaCO(3) content for metalaxyl and the pH for penconazole. The results revealed changes in the adsorption-desorption processes of these fungicides, which could give rise to a decrease in the mobility of metalaxyl (highly water-soluble) and an increase in the retention of penconazole (more hydrophobic). These effects could have an impact on surface and/or groundwater contamination.
The utility of microspheres as surrogates for the transport of E. coli RS2g in partially saturated agricultural soil.	Polystyrene latex microspheres are widely used as surrogates for biocolloid transport in porous media; however, relatively few studies directly compare microsphere transport with that of the microorganism it is intended to represent, particularly at the field scale. Here, we compared the transport behaviour of a bacterium (Escherichia coli RS2g; 1.2 microm in diameter) and three different sized microspheres (1.1, 3.9, and 4.8 microm in diameter) within undisturbed agricultural field soil following infiltration under partially saturated conditions. The soil contained significant macroporosity. A tension infiltrometer was used to control the application of a transport solution containing Brilliant Blue FCF dye to two plots. A >2 log reduction in the concentration of all colloids was observed from the soil surface to 5 cm depth in both plots. The concentration of colloids in the soil was generally proportional to the intensity of soil dye staining; however, both the E. coli RS2g bacterium and the 1.1 microm microspheres appeared to be transported deeper than the other colloids and the visible dye along root holes at the bottom of the profile in both plots. The similarities in size and zeta potential of the 1.1 microm microspheres and the E. coli RS2g likely contributed to that outcome. Colloid concentrations in dyed soil by depth were similar between the two plots, despite differences in soil properties and infiltration patterns. The properties of the colloids and macropore density were the most important factors affecting colloid transport. These results suggest that microspheres with size and surface properties similar to the microbe of interest are useful surrogates to trace potential pathways of transport in the subsurface.
The impact of co-contaminants and septic system effluent quality on the transport of estrogens and nonylphenols through soil.	The impact that varying qualities of wastewater may have on the movement of steroid estrogens through soils into groundwater is little understood. In this study, the steroid estrogens 17beta-estradiol (E2) and estrone (E1) were followed through batch and column studies to examine the impact that organic wastewater constituents from on-site wastewater treatment systems (i.e., septic systems or decentralized systems) may have on influencing the rate of transport of estrogens through soils. Total organic carbon (TOC) content (as a surrogate indicator of overall wastewater quality) and the presence of nonyl-phenol polyethoxylate surfactants (NPEO) at concentrations well below the critical micelle concentration were independently shown to be indicative of earlier breakthrough and less partitioning to soil in batch and column experiments. Both NPEO and wastewater with increasing TOC concentrations led to shifts in the equilibrium of E1 and E2 towards the aqueous phase and caused the analytes to have an earlier breakthrough than in control experiments. The presence of nonylphenols, on the other hand, did not appreciably impact partitioning of E1 or E2. Biodegradation of the steroids in soil was also lower in the presence of septic tank effluents than in an organic-free control water. Furthermore, the data indicate that the rate of movement of E1 and E2 present in septic tank effluent through soils and into groundwater can be decreased by removing the NPEOs and TOC through wastewater treatment prior to sub-surface disposal. This study offers some insights into mechanisms which impact degradation, transformation, and retardation, and shows that TOC and NPEO surfactants play a role in estrogen transport.
Arsenic and major cation hydrogeochemistry of the Central Victorian (Australia) surface waters.	This paper reports on the major cations (Ca, Mg, Na and K) and arsenic (As) compositions of surface waters collected from major creeks, rivers and lakes in Central Victoria (Australia). The surface waters were found to be neutral to alkaline (pH 6.7-9.4), oxidised (average redox potential (Eh) about 130 mV) and showed variable concentrations of dissolved ions (EC, about 51-4386 microS/cm). The concentrations of dissolved major cations in surface waters were found to be in the order of Na>>Mg>Ca>K and in soils the contents of metals followed an order of abundance as: Ca>Mg>>K>Na. While Na was the least abundant in soils, it registered the highest dissolved cation in surface waters. Of the four major cations, the average concentration of Na (98.7 mg/L) was attributed to the weathering of feldspars and atmospheric input. Relatively highly dissolved concentrations of Na and Mg compared with the world average values of rivers reflected the weathering of rock and soil minerals within the catchments. The As soil level is naturally high (linked to lithology) as reflected by high background soil values and mining operations are also considered to be a contributory factor. Under relatively alkaline-oxidative conditions low mobility of dissolved As (average about 7.9 microg/L) was observed in most of the surface waters with a few higher values (> 15 microg/L) around a sewage disposal site and mine tailings. Arsenic in soils is slowly released into water under alkaline and/or lower Eh conditions. The efficient sink of Fe, Al and Mn oxides acts as a barrier against the As release under near neutral-oxidising conditions. High As content (average about 28.3 mg/kg) in soils was found to be associated with Fe-hydroxides as revealed by XRD and SEM analysis. The dissolved As concentration was found to be below the recommended maximum levels for recreational water in all surface waters (lakes and rivers) in the study area. Catchment lithology exerted the fundamental control on surface water chemistry. Sites impacted by mining waste dumps showed a decline in water quality.
Immobilization of Ni by synthesising zeolite at low temperatures in a polluted soil.	Over the last few years a great deal of research has been carried out in order to develop remediation methods for reducing environmental risks due to polluting metals. Zeolite formation in contaminated soils mixed with coal fly ash could be a useful method to reduce both the availability and the mobility of metals in contaminated areas. In this study a soil sample--treated with coal fly ash and artificially contaminated with a high concentration of Ni--was used for synthesizing zeolite at low temperatures. The role played by this mineral in the immobilization of heavy metal was investigated. The materials were analysed chemically (sequential extraction) and by XRD and SEM-EDS analyses. The synthesis was carried out both in the laboratory and on a bench-scale for 1 year. Zeolite crystallization readily occurred after a month. The presence of Ni does not exert any influence on zeolite formation. On the other hand newly-formed zeolites reduce the toxicity of the element in the polluted soil. A reduction in heavy metal availability was observed after ammonium acetate extraction. The use of the modified BCR three-step sequential extraction (sequential extraction protocol developed by Community Bureau of Reference of the Commission of the European Communities) suggests that Ni mobilization takes place when zeolite structure collapses after the BCR second step. The Ni thus available was mobilized in the third step.
Bioactive compounds with added value prepared from terpenes contained in solid wastes from the olive oil industry.	Starting from solid wastes from two-phase olive-oil extraction, the pentacyclic triterpenes oleanolic acid and maslinic acid were isolated. These natural compounds were transformed into methyl olean-12-en-28-oate (5), which then was transformed into several seco-C-ring triterpene compounds by chemical and photolytic modifications. The triene seco-products were fragmented through several oxidative procedures to produce, simultaneously, cis- and trans-decalin derivatives, both potential synthons for bioactive compounds. The chemical behavior of the isolated fragments was investigated, and a suitable approach to several low-molecular-weight terpenes was performed. These are interesting processes for the value-addition to solid waste from the olive-oil industry.
XANES speciation of mercury in three mining districts - Almadén, Asturias (Spain), Idria (Slovenia).	The mobility, bioavailability and toxicity of mercury in the environment strongly depend on the chemical species in which it is present in soil, sediments, water or air. In mining districts, differences in mobility and bioavailability of mercury mainly arise from the different type of mineralization and ore processing. In this work, synchrotron-based X-ray absorption near-edge spectroscopy (XANES) has been taken advantage of to study the speciation of mercury in geological samples from three of the largest European mercury mining districts: Almadén (Spain), Idria (Slovenia) and Asturias (Spain). XANES has been complemented with a single extraction protocol for the determination of Hg mobility. Ore, calcines, dump material, soil, sediment and suspended particles from the three sites have been considered in the study. In the three sites, rather insoluble sulfide compounds (cinnabar and metacinnabar) were found to predominate. Minor amounts of more soluble mercury compounds (chlorides and sulfates) were also identified in some samples. Single extraction procedures have put forward a strong dependence of the mobility with the concentration of chlorides and sulfates. Differences in efficiency of roasting furnaces from the three sites have been found.
Mercury speciation in the colloidal fraction of a soil polluted by a chlor-alkali plant: a case study in the South of Italy.	Mercury (Hg) speciation in different size fractions of a soil sample collected near an industrial area located in the South of Italy, which had been polluted by the dumping of Hg-containing wastes from a chlor-alkali plant, was investigated by XANES spectroscopy. In particular, a special procedure has been developed to study the soil colloidal fraction, both for sample preparation and for XANES data collection. In this soil, Hg was speciated in quite insoluble inorganic forms such as cinnabar (alpha-HgS), metacinnabar (beta-HgS), corderoite (Hg(3)S(2)Cl(2)), and some amorphous Hg, S and Cl-containing species, all derived from the land-disposal of K106 Hg-containing wastes. The contribution of the above-mentioned chemical forms to Hg speciation changed as a function of particle size. For the fraction <2 mm the speciation was: amorphous Hg-S-Cl (34%) > corderoite (26%) > cinnabar (20%) = metacinnabar (20%); for the fraction <2 microm: amorphous Hg-S-Cl (40%) > metacinnabar (24%) > corderoite (20%) > cinnabar (16%); and for the fraction 430-650 nm, where most of the colloidal Hg was concentrated: amorphous Hg-S-Cl (56%) > metacinnabar (33%) > corderoite (6%) > cinnabar (5%). From these data it emerged that, even if Hg was speciated in quite insoluble forms, the colloidal fraction, which is the most mobile and thus the most dangerous, was enriched in relatively more soluble species (i.e. amorphous Hg-S-Cl and metacinnabar), as compared with cinnabar. This aspect should be seriously taken into account when planning environmental risk assessment, since the small particle size in which Hg is concentrated and the changing speciation passing from millimetre to nanometre size could turn apparently safe conditions into more hazardous ones.
Evaluation of Soxhlet extraction, accelerated solvent extraction and microwave-assisted extraction for the determination of polychlorinated biphenyls and polybrominated diphenyl ethers in soil and fish samples.	Three commonly applied extraction techniques for persistent organic chemicals, Soxhlet extraction (SE), accelerated solvent extraction (ASE) and microwave-assisted extraction (MAE), were applied on soil and fish samples in order to evaluate their performances. For both PCBs and PBDEs, the two more recent developed techniques (ASE and MAE) were in general capable of producing comparable extraction results as the classical SE, and even higher extraction recoveries were obtained for some PCB congeners with large octanol-water partitioning coefficients (K(ow)). This relatively uniform extraction results from ASE and MAE indicated that elevated temperature and pressure are favorable to the efficient extraction of PCBs from the solid matrices. For PBDEs, difference between the results from MAE and ASE (or SE) suggests that the MAE extraction condition needs to be carefully optimized according to the characteristics of the matrix and analyte to avoid degradation of higher brominated BDE congeners and improve the extraction yields.
Desorption kinetics of naphthalene from sediment particles: batch and stepwise desorption approach.	We investigated three major parameters in simulating desorption behaviours: the pre-contamination period, dilution by clean water mass (dilution ratio) and the length of the time interval between dilutions, in both batch and stepwise desorption experiments using particles pre-contaminated with a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon, naphthalene (NAPH). We found that the dilution ratio plays a major role in batch desorption, whereas the pre-contamination period plays a major role in stepwise desorption (SD). In addition, the diffusion process was found to be the rate-determining step for our study of SD kinetics. Based on the results of our batch experiments, we were able to derive a mathematical expression capable of correlating the SD rate constant with the length of time interval between dilutions. This expression can be applied in numerical modelling of various naturally occurring processes such as the dispersion and dilution of a heavily contaminated water mass in a marine environment due to an oil spill incident.
Dissipation of cypermethrin, chlorpyriphos, and profenofos in tomato fruits and soil following application of pre-mix formulations.	Persistence of cypermethrin, chlorpyriphos, and profenofos in tomato and soil were studied following application of two pre-mix formulations of insecticides viz. Roket 44EC (profenofos 40% + cypermethrin 5%) and Action-505EC (chlorpyriphos 50% + cypermethrin 5%) at recommended (0.8-1.0 L ha(-1)) and double dosage (1.6-2.0 L ha(-1)). In all the treatments residues persisted beyond 7 days in tomato fruits. Half-life values were calculated from first-order dissipation kinetics. In the case of Roket 44EC, residues of cypermethrin on fruits dissipated with half-life of 2.0-3.6 days, whereas residues of profenophos dissipated with the half-life of 2.2-5.4 days. In the case of Action-505EC, residues of chlorpyriphos and cypermethrin dissipated from fruits with the half-life values of 2.9-3.3 and 2.5-4.8 days, respectively. In soil, residues of profenofos persisted for 7-15 days, whereas residues of chlorpyrophos and cypermethrin persisted for 0-7 days only.
Evaluation of the potential of indigenous calcareous shale for neutralization and removal of arsenic and heavy metals from acid mine drainage in the Taxco mining area, Mexico.	In the Taxco mining area, sulfide mineral oxidation from inactive tailings impoundments and abandoned underground mines has produced acid mine drainage (AMD; pH 2.2-2.9) enriched in dissolved concentrations (mg l⁻¹) sulfate, heavy metals, and arsenic (As): SO₄²⁻ (pH 1470-5454), zinc (Zn; 3.0-859), iron (Fe; pH 5.5-504), copper (Cu; pH 0.7-16.3), cadmium (Cd; pH 0.3-6.7), lead (Pb; pH < 0.05-1.8), and As (pH < 0.002-0.6). Passive-treatment systems using limestone have been widely used to remediate AMD in many parts of the world. In limestone-treatment systems, calcite simultaneously plays the role of neutralizing and precipitating agent. However, the acid-neutralizing potential of limestone decreases when surfaces of the calcite particles become less reactive as they are progressively coated by metal precipitates. This study constitutes first-stage development of passive-treatment systems for treating AMD in the Taxco mine area using indigenous calcareous shale. This geologic material consists of a mixture of calcite, quartz, muscovite, albite, and montmorillonite. Results of batch leaching test indicate that calcareous shale significantly increased the pH (to values of 6.6-7.4) and decreased heavy metal and As concentrations in treated mine leachates. Calcareous shale had maximum removal efficiency (100%) for As, Pb, Cu, and Fe. The most mobile metals ions were Cd and Zn, and their average percentage removal was 87% and 89%, respectively. In this natural system (calcareous shale), calcite provides a source of alkalinity, whereas the surfaces of quartz and aluminosilicate minerals possibly serve as a preferred locus of deposition for metals, resulting in the neutralizing agent (calcite) beings less rapidly coated with the precipitating metals and therefore able to continue its neutralizing function for a longer time.
Effect of spent mushroom substrate amendment of vineyard soils on the behavior of fungicides: 2. Mobility of penconazole and metalaxyl in undisturbed soil cores.	Mobility of fungicides penconazole and metalaxyl in unamended and amended vineyard soils with fresh and composted spent mushroom substrates (F-SMS and C-SMS) was studied. Experiments were performed in non-incubated and incubated (outdoors for 77 days) undisturbed soil cores under non-saturated flow conditions. Breakthrough curves (BTC) of metalaxyl leaching were delayed with regard to the tracer ion, and they showed an incomplete leaching in all soil cores after the addition of 2.5-4.5 pore volumes. A decrease of the maximum peak concentration in C-SMS soils with regard to unamended soils (up to 24-fold in Viana soil) and an increase in the fungicide retention by soils (up to 8-fold in the first segment of Viana soil core) was observed. However, a decrease (up to 2.6-fold in Sajazarra soil) or an increase (up to 1.4-fold in Aldeanueva soil) of the maximum peak concentration in F-SMS soils was observed. No leaching of penconazole was observed in all cases. After fungicide incubation in soil cores, the amounts of metalaxyl retained and leached decreased significantly by 1.24-37.8-fold and 1.17-302-fold, respectively, whereas no changes were observed for penconazole. Degradation of metalaxyl occurred in non-incubated soil and increased after incubation (two metalaxyl metabolites were detected in the leachates and the soil extracts), but it was not seen for penconazole in any case. In consequence, the addition of SMS as amendment to soil (especially C-SMS) enhanced adsorption of both fungicides, although metalaxyl could be available for degradation. This effect contributes to prevent groundwater contamination by metalaxyl, but it could contribute to increase the surface water contamination by penconazole, because adsorption protects this fungicide from degradation, increasing its persistence in soils.
Biotransformation of halogenated nonylphenols with sphingobium xenophagum bayram and a nonylphenol-degrading soil-enrichment culture.	When discharged in chlorinated wastewater, alkylphenol ethoxylate metabolites (APEMs) are often discharged in halogenated form (XAPEMs, X = Cl, or Br). The potential environmental impact of XAPEM release was assessed by studying the biotransformation of halogenated nonylphenol by Sphingobium xenophagum Bayram and a soil-enrichment culture. S. xenophagum Bayram transformed chlorinated nonylphenol (ClNP) slowly and nearly completely to form nonyl alcohol; the monobrominated nonylphenol (BrNP) and dibrominated nonylphenol were transformed cometabolically with nonylphenol (NP) as the primary substrate. The presence of either ClNP or BrNP in the S. xenophagum Bayram cultures retarded the transformation of nonhalogenated NP. NP-degrading soil cultures transformed nonhalogenated NP to a mixture of nonyl alcohols but were not capable of transforming either ClNP or BrNP. The presence of either ClNP or BrNP retarded the transformation of nonhalogenated NP in the soil cultures, as was observed in S. xenophagum Bayram cultures. Predicting the environmental fate of alkylphenol ethoxylate residues requires considering APEM halogenation during effluent chlorination and inhibitory effects as well as the refractory nature of halogenated metabolites.
Glyphosate-based herbicides produce teratogenic effects on vertebrates by impairing retinoic acid signaling.	The broad spectrum herbicide glyphosate is widely used in agriculture worldwide. There has been ongoing controversy regarding the possible adverse effects of glyphosate on the environment and on human health. Reports of neural defects and craniofacial malformations from regions where glyphosate-based herbicides (GBH) are used led us to undertake an embryological approach to explore the effects of low doses of glyphosate in development. Xenopus laevis embryos were incubated with 1/5000 dilutions of a commercial GBH. The treated embryos were highly abnormal with marked alterations in cephalic and neural crest development and shortening of the anterior-posterior (A-P) axis. Alterations on neural crest markers were later correlated with deformities in the cranial cartilages at tadpole stages. Embryos injected with pure glyphosate showed very similar phenotypes. Moreover, GBH produced similar effects in chicken embryos, showing a gradual loss of rhombomere domains, reduction of the optic vesicles, and microcephaly. This suggests that glyphosate itself was responsible for the phenotypes observed, rather than a surfactant or other component of the commercial formulation. A reporter gene assay revealed that GBH treatment increased endogenous retinoic acid (RA) activity in Xenopus embryos and cotreatment with a RA antagonist rescued the teratogenic effects of the GBH. Therefore, we conclude that the phenotypes produced by GBH are mainly a consequence of the increase of endogenous retinoid activity. This is consistent with the decrease of Sonic hedgehog (Shh) signaling from the embryonic dorsal midline, with the inhibition of otx2 expression and with the disruption of cephalic neural crest development. The direct effect of glyphosate on early mechanisms of morphogenesis in vertebrate embryos opens concerns about the clinical findings from human offspring in populations exposed to GBH in agricultural fields.
Degradative fate of 3-chlorocarbazole and 3,6-dichlorocarbazole in soil.	3-Chlorocarbazole and 3,6-dichlorocarbazole were isolated from Bavarian soils. The stereospecific formation of the isomers of these chlorinated carbazols can be explained by quantum mechanical calculations using the DFT method. It was shown that chlorination of carbazole and 3-chlorocarbazole respectively is preferred via the sigma-complexes 3-chlorocarbazole and 3,6-dichlorocarbazole as the most stable products. The dioxin-like toxicological potential of 3,6-dichlorocarbazole, determined by the Micro-EROD Test, is in the range of some picogram TCDD equivalents per milligram carbazole. The degradative fate of 3-chlorocarbazole and 3,6-dichlorocarbazole was analysed within a long-term study (57 days) in soil.
Sorption of deisopropylatrazine on broiler litter biochars.	Biochars have received increasing attention in recent years because of a large-scale soil amendment to improve soil fertility, immobilize contaminants, and to serve as a recalcitrant carbon stock. Information is currently lacking in factors controlling the sorption capacity of manure-derived biochars. In this study, sorption isotherms for deisopropylatrazine, a stable metabolite of the widely applied herbicide atrazine, were obtained in acidic aqueous media (pH 5.5) for broiler litter-derived biochars formed by pyrolysis at 350 and 700 °C with and without steam activation at 800 °C. An increase in the Freundlich distribution coefficient (KF) and isotherm nonlinearity (nF) was observed with pyrolysis temperature and steam-activation, suggesting that the surface area and aromaticity (degree of carbonization) are the factors controlling the sorption capacity of chars at low surface coverage. At high surface coverage, the isotherms became increasingly linear, suggesting sorption on noncarbonized fraction of biochars. In binary-solute experiments, the sorption of deisopropylatrazine was significantly diminished by Cu(II), further suggesting the predominance of the surface adsorption mechanism at low surface coverage of biochars. 
Polychlorinated biphenyls-containing electrical insulating oil contaminated soil treatment with calcium and magnesium peroxides.	Calcium and magnesium peroxides were applied for the treatment of soil contaminated by polychlorinated biphenyls-containing electrical insulating oil (Aroclor 1016). The removal of PCB-containing electrical insulating oil was achieved with the addition of either calcium peroxide or magnesium peroxide alone and dependent on dosages of the chemical. A 21-d treatment of 60% watered soil with the moderate addition (chemical/oil weight ratio of 0.005/1) of either calcium peroxide or magnesium peroxide resulted in nearly complete (96 ± 2%) oil removal, unsubstantial increase in soil pH and almost no changes in oxygen consumption and dehydrogenase activity, making it suitable for the soil decontamination.
Optimization of extraction procedure and chromatographic separation of glyphosate, glufosinate and aminomethylphosphonic acid in soil.	Analysing herbicides in soil is a complex issue that needs validation and optimization of existing methods. An extraction and analysis method was developed to assess concentrations of glyphosate, glufosinate and aminomethylphophonic acid (AMPA) in field soil samples. After testing extractions by accelerated solvent extraction and ultrasonic extraction, agitation was selected with the best recoveries. Water was preferred as solvent extraction because it resulted in a cleaner chromatogram with fewer impurities than was the case with alkaline solvents. Analysis was performed by FMOC pre-column derivatization followed by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) on a 300 mm C(18) column which permitted enhanced separation and sensitivity than a 250 mm C(18) column and increased resistance than the NH(2) column for soil samples. This extraction and analysis method allowing a minimum of steps before the injection in the HPLC with fluorescence detection is efficient and sensitive for a clay-loamy soil with detection limits of 103 μg kg(-1) for glyphosate, 15 μg kg(-1) for glufosinate and 16 μg kg(-1) for AMPA in soil samples.
Electrochemistry-mass spectrometry for mechanistic studies and simulation of oxidation processes in the environment.	Electrochemistry (EC) coupled to mass spectrometry (MS) has already been successfully applied to metabolism research for pharmaceutical applications, especially for the oxidation behaviour of drug substances. Xenobiotics (chemicals in the environment) also undergo various conversions; some of which are oxidative reactions. Therefore, EC-MS might be a suitable tool for the investigation of oxidative behaviour of xenobiotics. A further evaluation of this approach to environmental research is presented in the present paper using sulfonamide antibiotics. The results with sulfadiazine showed that EC-MS is a powerful tool for the elucidation of the oxidative degradation mechanism within a short time period. In addition, it was demonstrated that EC-MS can be used as a fast and easy method to model the chemical binding of xenobiotics to soil. The reaction of sulfadiazine with catechol, as a model substance for organic matter in soil, led to the expected chemical structure. Finally, by using EC-MS a first indication was obtained of the persistence of a component under chemical oxidation conditions for the comparison of the oxidative stability of different classes of xenobiotics. Overall, using just a few examples, the study demonstrates that EC-MS can be applied as a versatile tool for mechanistic studies of oxidative degradation pathways of xenobiotics and their possible interaction with soil organic matter as well as their oxidative stability in the environment. Further studies are needed to evaluate the full range of possibilities of the application of EC-MS in environmental research.
Kinetin increases chromium absorption, modulates its distribution, and changes the activity of catalase and ascorbate peroxidase in Mexican Palo Verde.	This report shows, for the first time, the effectiveness of the phytohormone kinetin (KN) in increasing Cr translocation from roots to stems in Mexican Palo Verde. Fifteen-day-old seedlings, germinated in soil spiked with Cr(III) and (VI) at 60 and 10 mg kg(-1), respectively, were watered every other day for 30 days with a KN solution at 250 μM. Samples were analyzed for catalase (CAT) and ascorbate peroxidase (APOX) activities, Cr concentration, and Cr distribution in tissues. Results showed that KN reduced CAT but increased APOX in the roots of Cr(VI)-treated plants. In the leaves, KN reduced both CAT and APOX in Cr(III) but not in Cr(VI)-treated plants. However, KN increased total Cr concentration in roots, stems, and leaves by 45%, 103%, and 72%, respectively, compared to Cr(III) alone. For Cr(VI), KN increased Cr concentrations in roots, stems, and leaves, respectively, by 53%, 129%, and 168%, compared to Cr(VI) alone. The electron probe microanalyzer results showed that Cr was mainly located at the cortex section in the root, and Cr distribution was essentially homogeneous in stems. However, proven through X-ray images, Cr(VI)-treated roots and stems had more Cr accumulation than Cr(III) counterparts. KN increased the Cr translocation from roots to stems.
Prediction of soil sorption coefficients using model molecular structures for organic matter and the quantum mechanical COSMO-SAC model.	The soil sorption coefficient, K(OC), is an important property affecting the environmental fate of organic molecules. Difficulties associated with measuring K(OC) have led to many attempts to predict this property, but most rely on empirical descriptors for the soil phase determined from correlations with measured K(OC) data, and are thereby limited by the data quality and diversity. A new method is presented to predict K(OC) for nonionic organic compounds that requires only molecular structures. No calibration is performed. Using model humic acid (HA) and fulvic acid (FA) molecular structures from the literature, the soil organic matter is modeled as an organic solvent composed of HA or FA molecules. K(OC) is predicted as an organic solvent-water partition coefficient using the quantum mechanics-based model COSMO-SAC. The log K(OC) values for a set of 440 diverse, environmentally relevant chemicals are predicted with a root-mean-square error of 0.84-1.08, depending on which model HA or FA is used.
Sorption and ecotoxicity of pentachlorophenol polluted sediment amended with rice-straw derived biochar.	To investigate the feasibility of using biochar to control organic pollutants in sediments, we extracted biochar from rice-straw combustion residues (RBC) and studied its adsorption ability and effect on seed germination ecotoxicity of pentachlorophenol (PCP). The results showed that the Freundlich and dual-mode models could describe all the sorption isotherm data well, and the log K(OC) values increased with increasing RBC content. With 50 mg kg(-1) PCP in the sediment, a significant seed growth inhibition (P<0.01) was observed. The addition of 2.0% RBC lowered the PCP concentration in the extraction liquid from 4.53 to 0.17 mg L(-1) and increased the germination rate and root length significantly. Furthermore, it was found that the addition of RBC had no toxic but stimulative effect on root elongation. Consequently, RBC could serve as a potential supersorbent for the remediation of organic pollution in situ.
Removal of PAHs with surfactant-enhanced soil washing: influencing factors and removal effectiveness.	PAH removal with surfactant enhanced washing was investigated through a series of laboratory tests to examine the effect of stirring speed, washing time, surfactant concentration, liquid/solid ratio, temperature, and on-and-off mode. The first four factors show significant influence on the PAH removal while the latter two do not. Total removal ratio and a new proposed parameter, solubilization percentage, are used to evaluate the effectiveness quantitatively.
Assessing in situ rates of anaerobic hydrocarbon bioremediation.	Identifying metabolites associated with anaerobic hydrocarbon biodegradation is a reliable way to garner evidence for the intrinsic bioremediation of problem contaminants. While such metabolites have been detected at numerous sites, the in situ rates of anaerobic hydrocarbon decay remain largely unknown. Yet, realistic rate information is critical for predicting how long individual contaminants will persist and remain environmental threats. Here, single-well push-pull tests were conducted at two fuel-contaminated aquifers to determine the in situ biotransformation rates of a suite of hydrocarbons added as deuterated surrogates, including toluene-d(8), o-xylene-d(10), m-xylene-d(10), ethylbenzene-d(5) (or -d(10)), 1, 2, 4-trimethylbenzene-d(12), 1, 3, 5-trimethylbenzene-d(12), methylcyclohexane-d(14) and n-hexane-d(14). The formation of deuterated fumarate addition and downstream metabolites was quantified and found to be somewhat variable among wells in each aquifer, but generally within an order of magnitude. Deuterated metabolites formed in one aquifer at rates that ranged from 3 to 50 µg l(-1) day(-1), while the comparable rates at another aquifer were slower and ranged from 0.03 to 15 µg l(-1) day(-1). An important observation was that the deuterated hydrocarbon surrogates were metabolized in situ within hours or days at both sites, in contrast to many laboratory findings suggesting that long lag periods of weeks to months before the onset of anaerobic biodegradation are typical. It seems clear that highly reduced conditions are not detrimental to the intrinsic bioremediation of fuel-contaminated aquifers.
Fluoride in the environment and its metabolism in humans.	The presence of environmental fluoride and its impact on human health is well documented. When consumed in adequate quantity, fluoride prevents dental caries, assists in the formation of dental enamels, and prevents deficiencies in bone mineralization. At excessive exposure levels, ingestion of fluoride causes dental fluorosis skeletal fluorosis, and manifestations such as gastrointestinal, neurological, and urinary problems. The distribution of fluoride in the environment is uneven and largely is believed to derive from geogenic causes. The natural sources of fluoride are fluorite, fluorapatite, and cryolite, whereas anthropogenic sources include coal burning, oil refining, steel production, brick-making industries, and phosphatic fertilizer plants, among others. Among the various sources of fluoride in the environment, those of anthropogenic origin have occasionally been considered to be major ones. The gourndwater is more susceptible to fluoride accumulation and contamination than are other environmental media, primarily because of its contact with geological substrates underneath. The high fluoride concentration in water usually reflects the solubility of fluoride (CaF₂). High concentrations are also often associated with soft, alkaline, and calcium-deficient waters. The fluoride compounds that occur naturally in drinking water are almost totally bioavailable (90%) and are completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. As a result, drinking water is considered to be the potential source of fluoride that causes fluorosis. Because the bioavailability of fluoride is generally reduced in humans when consumed with milk or a calcium-rich diet, it is highly recommended that the inhabitants of fluoride-contaminated areas should incorporate calcium-rich foods in their routine diet. Guidelines for limiting the fluoride intake from drinking water have been postulated by various authorities. Such limits are designed to protect public health and should reflect all fluoride intake sources, including dietary fluoride. The toxicological risks posed by fluoride could be better understood if epidemiological surveillance for dental and skeletal fluorosis would be systematically conducted in fluoride-affected areas. Such input would greatly improve understanding of the human dose-response relationship. Such surveillance of potentially high fluoride areas is also important because it would help to delineate, much earlier, the remedial measures that are appropriate for those areas.
Sorption-desorption of aminocyclopyrachlor in selected Brazilian soils.	Aminocyclopyrachlor sorption/desorption was investigated in 14 soils from Brazil, representing a range of pH, and organic carbon (OC) and clay contents. The Freundlich equation adequately described behavior of aminocyclopyrachlor in soil. Freundlich sorption coefficient (K(f)) values ranged from 0.06 to 1.64 and 1/n values for ranged from 0.9 to 1.0. Sorption was correlated to OC (K(f,oc) ranged from 11 to 64) and clay contents. The lowest sorption was found for soils with very low OC contents (0.50-0.65%) and loamy-sand to sand textures. The 1/n values for desorption were lower than those observed for sorption, suggesting that aminocyclopyrachlor sorption by soil was not reversible; hysteresis coefficients ranged from 0.13 to 0.74. The results suggest that although aminocyclopyrachlor would be very mobile based on its sorption coefficients, its potential depth of leaching may be overestimated due to the hysteretic desorption.
Comparative phototoxicity of nanoparticulate and bulk ZnO to a free-living nematode Caenorhabditis elegans: the importance of illumination mode and primary particle size.	The present study evaluated phototoxicity of nanoparticulate ZnO and bulk-ZnO under natural sunlight (NSL) versus ambient artificial laboratory light (AALL) illumination to a free-living nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. Phototoxicity of nano-ZnO and bulk-ZnO was largely dependent on illumination method as 2-h exposure under NSL caused significantly greater mortality in C. elegans than under AALL. This phototoxicity was closely related to photocatalytic reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation by the ZnO particles as indicated by concomitant methylene blue photodegradation. Both materials caused mortality in C. elegans under AALL during 24-h exposure although neither degraded methylene blue, suggesting mechanisms of toxicity other than photocatalytic ROS generation were involved. Particle dissolution of ZnO did not appear to play an important role in the toxicity observed in this study. Nano-ZnO showed greater phototoxicity than bulk-ZnO despite their similar size of aggregates, suggesting primary particle size is more important than aggregate size in determining phototoxicity.
Analysis of the bacterial community changes in soil for septic tank effluent treatment in response to bio-clogging.	Soil columns were set up to survey the bacterial community in the soil for septic tank effluent treatment. When bio-clogging occurred in the soil columns, the effluent from the columns was in poorer quality. To evaluate changes of the soil bacterial community in response to bio-clogging, the bacterial community was characterized by DNA gene sequences from soil samples after polymerase chain reaction coupled with denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis process. Correspondence analysis showed that Proteobacteria related bacteria were the main bacteria within the soil when treating septic tank effluent. However, Betaproteobacteria related bacteria were the dominant microorganisms in the normal soil, whereas Alphaproteobacteria related bacteria were more abundant in the clogged soil. This study provided insight into changes of the soil bacterial community in response to bio-clogging. The results can supply some useful information for the design and management of soil infiltration systems.
Mobilities and leachabilities of heavy metals in sludge with humus soil.	Chemical forms of Zn, Ni, Cu, and Pb in municipal sewage sludge were investigated by adding humus soil to sludge and by performing sequential extraction procedures. In the final sludge mixtures, Zn and Ni were mainly found in Fe/Mn oxide-bound (F3) and organic matter/sulfide-bound (F4) forms. For Zn, exchangeable (F1), carbonate-bound (F2), and F3 forms were transformed to F4 and residual forms (F5). For Ni, F1 and F2 forms were transformed to F1, F2, and F3 forms. Both Cu and Pb were strongly associated with the stable forms F4 and F5. For Cu, F2 and F3 forms were major contributors, while for Pb, F3 and F4 forms were major contributors to F5. Humus soil dosage and pH conditions in the sludge were strongly correlated with the forms of heavy metals. Five forms were used to evaluate metal mobilities in the initial and final sludge mixtures. The mobilities of the four heavy metals studied decreased after 28 days. The metal mobilities in the final sludge mixtures were ranked in the following order: Ni > Zn > Cu = Pb. Leaching tests showed that the mobilities of Zn and Ni in lower pH conditions (pH 4) were higher than those in higher pH conditions (pH 8).
Plant coexistence can enhance phytoextraction of cadmium by tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) in contaminated soil.	A mesocosm experiment was conducted to investigate whether plant coexistence affects cadmium (Cd) uptake by plant in contaminated soil. Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L. var. K326) and Japanese clover (Kummerowia striata (Thunb.) Schindl.) were used. Cadmium was applied as 3CdSO4 x 8H2O in solution at three levels (0, 1, and 3 mg/kg soil) to simulate an unpolluted soil and soils that were slightly and moderately polluted with Cd. Tobacco (crop), Japanese clover (non-crop), and their combination were grown under each Cd treatment. Compared to monoculture and under all Cd treatments, co-planting with Japanese clover did not affect tobacco biomass but significantly increased Cd concentration in all tobacco tissues and enhanced Cd accumulation in tobacco shoots and roots. Compared to monoculture, co-planting reduced soil pH and increased Cd bioavailability. For tobacco, co-planting with Japanese clover increased the Cd bioconcentration factor (BCF) in Cd contaminated soil. Japanese clover also accumulated substantial quantities of Cd in shoots and roots. Thus, total Cd uptake by the plants was much greater with co-planting than with monoculture. The results suggested that phytoextraction can be effectively increased through tobacco co-planting with Japanese clover in mildly Cd-contaminated soil.
Remediation of copper polluted red soils with clay materials.	Attapulgite and montmorillonite were utilized to remediate heavy metal polluted red soils in Guixi City, Jiangxi Province, China. The effects of clay minerals on availability, chemical distribution, and biotoxicity of Cu and Zn were evaluated. The results provided a reference for the rational application of clay materials to remediate heavy metal contaminated soils. From the sorption experiment, the maximum adsorbed Cu2+ by attapulgite and montmorillonite was 1501 and 3741 mg/kg, respectively. After polluted red soil was amended with attapulgite or montmorillonite and cultured at 30 and 60 days, soil pH increased significantly compared to the control. An 8% increase in the amount of montmorillonite in soil and 30 days incubation decreased acid exchangeable Cu by 24.7% compared to the control red soil. Acid exchangeable Cu decreased with increasing amounts of attapulgite and montmorillonite, with best remediation effect reached at a dose of 8%. Results also showed that the Cu poisoning effect on earthworms was reduced with the addition of attapulgite and montmorillonite. Montmorillonite showed the best effect, with the addition of a 2% dose the mortality of earthworms decreased from 60% to zero compared to the control. Our results indicated that the bioavailability of Cu in soils was reduced more effectively with the application of montmorillonite than attapulgite.
Effect and mechanism of immobilization of cadmium and lead compound contaminated soil using new hybrid material]	The effect of new hybrid material and its compound treatments with phosphate on immobilization of cadmium and lead in contaminated soil was investigated using a pot-culture experiment, and the immobilization mechanism of hybrid material was clarified through analysis of heavy metal fractions, sorption equilibration experiment and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The single treatments of hybrid material could not significantly promote growth of Brassica chinensis, while the compound treatments of hybrid material and phosphate markedly increased dry biomass of shoots and roots, with maximal increases of 75.53% and 151.22%, respectively. Different hybrid material treatments could significantly reduce Cd and Pb concentrations in shoots, with maximal reductions of 66.79% and 48.62%, respectively, and the compound amendment treatments appeared more efficient than the single amendment treatments in reducing Cd and Pb uptake of B. chinensis. Different hybrid material treatments could significantly decrease concentrations of toxicity characteristic leaching procedure (TCLP) extractable Cd and Pb, and the compound hybrid material treatments appeared more efficient than the single treatments in reducing TCLP extractable Cd and Pb. Through the formation of bidentate ligand between metal ions and surface sulfhydryl by complexing reaction, the hybrid material could absorb and fix mobile fractions of Cd and Pb in soil, and promote transformation of acid extractable Cd and Pb into residual fraction, resulting in significant reduction of heavy metals bioavailability and mobility and then fixing remediation of contaminated soil. In summary, the compound treatment of hybrid material and phosphate is the most effective treatment for immobilization of Cd and Pb in contaminated soils, and the hybrid material inactivates Cd and Pb in soil mainly through special chemical adsorption.
Simultaneous dispersion-dissolution behavior of concentrated silver nanoparticle suspensions in the presence of model organic solutes.	The premise of the nanotechnology revolution is based on the increased surface reactivity of nanometer-sized particles. Thus, these newly realized applications of noble metal nanoparticles introduce new concerns about the environmental fate of these materials if released during use or product disposal. In this paper, the focus is on silver nanoparticles, a known biocidal agent. In particular, this work explores the effect of model solutes chosen for their simple chemical structure yet their ability to simulate chemical attributes common to soil humic material: a chelating molecule, EDTA; a nonionic surfactant, Brij 35; and a large polysaccharide, alginic acid. Batch systems containing concentrated (1600 mg L(-1)) silver nanoparticle (nAg) suspensions were equilibrated with varying additions of EDTA, Brij 35, or alginic acid to solutions containing 1 or 100 mM NaNO3 background electrolyte. In general, both EDTA and alginate were shown to exhibit poor control over nAg dispersion stability, while Brij 35 served as a good dispersant of nAg particles, showing little difference in particle size with respect to electrolyte concentration. The data also show that loading of the model organic compounds resulted in the supersaturation of dissolved Ag for most of the systems. Mechanisms by which these occurred are discussed in more detail. The evidence suggests that regardless of the effect of humics on the stability of nAg dispersions in aqueous systems, polymer loading may enhance the dissolution and release of dissolved Ag into the environment.
Evidence of singlet oxygen and hydroxyl radical formation in aqueous goethite suspension using spin-trapping electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR).	The generation of reactive species in an aqueous goethite suspension, under room light and aeration conditions, was investigated using the electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) technique employing spin trap agents. The trap reagents, including 5,5-dimethylpyrroline N-oxide (DMPO) and 2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidine (TEMP), were used for the detection of OH radicals (OH·) and singlet oxygen (1O2), respectively. On the addition of DMPO to the goethite suspended solution, a DMPO-OH adduct was formed, which was not decreased, even in the presence of the OH· scavenger, mannitol. This result implied a false positive interpretation from the DMPO-OH EPR signal. In the presence of TEMP reagent, a TEMP-O signal was detected, which was completely inhibited in the presence of the singlet oxygen scavenger, sodium azide. With both DMPO-OH and TEMP-O radicals in the presence and absence of radical scavengers, singlet oxygen was observed to be the key species formed in the room-light sensitized goethite suspension. In the goethite/H2O2 system; however, both OH· and singlet oxygen were generated, with significant portions of DMPO-OH resulting from both OH· and singlet oxygen. In fact, the DMPO-OH resulting from OH· should be carefully calculated by correcting for the amount of DMPO-OH due to singlet oxygen. This study reports, for the first time, that the goethite suspensions may also act as a natural sensitizer, such as fulvic acids, to form singlet oxygen.
Influences of thermal decontamination on mercury removal, soil properties, and repartitioning of coexisting heavy metals.	Thermal treatment is a useful tool to remove Hg from contaminated soils. However, thermal treatment may greatly alter the soil properties and cause the coexisting contaminants, especially trace metals, to transform and repartition. The metal repartitioning may increase the difficulty in the subsequent process of a treatment train approach. In this study, three Hg-contaminated soils were thermally treated to evaluate the effects of treating temperature and duration on Hg removal. Thermogravimetric analysis was performed to project the suitable heating parameters for subsequent bench-scale fixed-bed operation. Results showed that thermal decontamination at temperature>400°C successfully lowered the Hg content to<20 mg kg(-1). The organic carbon content decreased by 0.06-0.11% and the change in soil particle size was less significant, even when the soils were thermally treated to 550°C. Soil clay minerals such as kaolinite were shown to be decomposed. Aggregates were observed on the surface of soil particles after the treatment. The heavy metals tended to transform into acid-extractable, organic-matter bound, and residual forms from the Fe/Mn oxide bound form. These results suggest that thermal treatment may markedly influence the effectiveness of subsequent decontamination methods, such as acid washing or solvent extraction.
Binding of heavy metal contaminants onto chitosans--an evaluation for remediation of metal contaminated soil and water.	The binding efficiency of chitosan samples for Ag(+), Cd(2+), Cu(2+), Pb(2+) and Zn(2+) has been evaluated in order to consider their application to remediate metal contaminated soil and water. The sorption behaviour of metal ions was assessed using a batch technique at different contact time and initial metal concentration with different background electrolytes. The kinetics followed a pseudo-second-order model, while the equilibrium data correlated well with the Freundlich and Langmuir isotherm models. For example, the maximum sorption capacity (Q) for chitosan was estimated as 1.93 mmol/g for Ag(+), 1.61 mmol/g for Cu(2+), 0.94 mmol/g for Zn(2+), 0.72 mmol/g for Cd(2+) and 0.64 mmol/g for Pb(2+). Covalent interaction between metal ions and functional groups (amino and hydroxyl) of the chitosans was the main binding mechanism. Ion exchange is not an important process. Chitosan and cross-linked chitosans were able to bind metal ions in the presence of K(+), Cl(-) and NO(3)(-). The nature of Cl(-) and NO(3)(-) ions did not affect Zn(2+) binding by the chitosans. Even at 11x dilution, the chitosans were able to retain metal ions on their surfaces.
Leaching of human pathogens in repacked soil lysimeters and contamination of potato tubers under subsurface drip irrigation in Denmark.	The risk for contamination of potatoes and groundwater through subsurface drip irrigation with low quality water was explored in 30 large-scale lysimeters containing repacked coarse sand and sandy loam soils. The human pathogens, Salmonella Senftenberg, Campylobacter jejuni and Escherichia coli O157:H7, and the virus indicator Salmonella Typhimurium bacteriophage 28B, were added weekly through irrigation tubes for one month with low irrigation rates (8 mm per week). In the following six months lysimeters were irrigated with groundwater free of pathogens. Two weeks after irrigation was started, phage 28B was detected in low concentrations (2 pfu ml(-1)) in leachate from both sandy loam soil and coarse sand lysimeters. After 27 days, phage 28B continued to be present in similar concentrations in leachate from lysimeters containing coarse sand, while no phage were found in lysimeters with sandy loam soil. The added bacterial pathogens were not found in any leachate samples during the entire study period of 212 days. Under the study conditions with repacked soil, limited macropores and low water velocity, bacterial pathogens seemed to be retained in the soil matrix and died-off before leaching to groundwater. However, viruses may leach to groundwater and represent a health risk as for some viruses only few virus particles are needed to cause human disease. The bacterial pathogens and the phage 28B were found on the potato samples harvested just after the application of microbial tracers was terminated. The findings of bacterial pathogens and phage 28 on all potato samples suggest that the main risk associated with subsurface drip irrigation with low quality water is faecal contamination of root crops, in particular those consumed raw.
Characteristics of distribution and chemical forms of Pb in tea plant varieties]	A hydroponics experiment combined with subcellular fractionation and sequential extraction was conducted to study the Pb concentration in different organs of two tea plant varieties (Longjing 43 and Yingshuang) and the Pb subcellular distribution and chemical forms in the roots of the varieties. Under Pb stress, the root system of the two varieties had different features in morphology. With the increasing concentration of Pb in culture solution, the Pb concentration in Longjing 43 young leaves increased, but that in Yingshuang' s had no significant variation. A marked difference was observed in the Pb subcellular distribution and its chemical forms in roots between the two varieties under Pb stress. In Longjing 43 roots, all subcellular fractions except soluble ones had a lower Pb concentration at low Pb stress, and all the subcellular fractions except cell wall ones had a higher Pb concentration at higher Pb stress, compared with those in Yingshuang's. In Longjing 43 roots, the HAc-extractable Pb occupied the greatest proportion, followed by NaCl-extractable Pb, HCl- and H2O- extractable Pb, and ethanol-extractable Pb; while in Yingshuang's, NaCl-extractable Pb had the greatest proportion, followed by HAc-extractable Pb, HCl- and H2O-extractable Pb, and ethanol-extractable Pb. Based on these findings, tea plant variety Yingshuang was likely to possess a higher tolerance to Pb than Longjing 43 did.
Role of non-ionic surfactants and plant oils on the solubilization of organochlorine pesticides by oil-in-water microemulsions.	Screening low-cost, high efficacy and environmentally safe surface active agents is critical for achieving successful surfactant-enhanced remediation (SER) of soil contaminated with hydrophobic organic compounds. This study reports the solubilization of organochlorine pesticides (DDT or gamma-HCH) in oil-in-water (Winsor I) microemulsions (microE) composed of non-ionic surfactant (Tween 80 or Triton X-100), plant oil (linseed oil or soybean oil), and the cosurfactant (1-pentanol). Results show that the cosurfactant to surfactant ratio (C/S ratio, w/w) is the major factor influencing the microemulsion formation, and C/S ratios of 1:3 and 1:6 are superior to 1:1 for microemulsion formation. 66.9-95.6% and 51.9-80.9% of DDT solubilization enhancements were achieved by microemulsions based respectively on Tween 80 or Triton X-100 as compared to their respective surfactant solution alone, indicating the higher solubilizing capacities of microemulsion systems. The solubilization of gamma-HCH also increased by 40.6-57.5% in microemulsion formed with Tween 80 and 43.0-65.8% in microemulsion formed with Triton X-100, compared with that in corresponding surfactant solutions only. Further studies revealed that both cosurfactant content and oil content could influence the solubilizing capacity of microemulsions system, and higher solubilizing capacity could be obtained when more cosurfactant or oil were emulsified in microemulsion system. Between the two, oil content is more influential than cosurfactant content. The present results affirm the effective role of microemulsions formed with Tween 80 and Triton X-100 in enhancing the solubilization of DDT and gamma-HCH which would facilitate remediation of soils contaminated with these compounds.
Lead sorption-desorption from organic residues.	Sorption and desorption are mechanisms involved in the reduction of metal mobility and bioavailability in organic materials. Metal release from substrates is controlled by desorption. The capacity of coffee husk and pulp residues, vermicompost and cow manure to adsorb Pb2+ was evaluated. The mechanisms involved in the sorption process were also studied. Organic materials retained high concentrations of lead (up to 36,000 mg L(-1)); however, the mechanisms of sorption varied according to the characteristics of each material: degree of decomposition, pH, cation exchange capacity and percentage of organic matter. Vermicompost and manure removed 98% of the Pb from solution. Lead precipitated in manure and vermicompost, forming lead oxide (PbO) and lead ferrite (PbFe4O7). Adsorption isotherms did not fit to the typical Freundlich and Langmuir equations. Not only specific and non-specific adsorption was observed, but also precipitation and coprecipitation. Lead desorption from vermicompost and cow manure was less than 2%. For remediation of Pb-polluted sites, the application of vermicompost and manure is recommended in places with alkaline soils because Pb precipitation can be induced, whereas coffee pulp residue is recommended for acidic soils where Pb is adsorbed.
Effects of glyphosate-resistant crop cultivation on soil and water quality.	Transgenic glyphosate-resistant crops (GRCs) have been commercialized and grown extensively in the Western Hemisphere and, to a lesser extent, elsewhere. GRCs have generally become dominant in those countries where they have been approved for growing. Potential effects of glyphosate on soil and water are minimal, compared the effects of the herbicides that are replaced when GRCs are adopted. Perhaps the most important indirect effect is that GRCs crops promote the adoption of reduced- or no-tillage agriculture, resulting in a significant reduction in soil erosion and water contamination. Glyphosate and its degradation product, aminomethylphosphonate (AMPA), residues are not usually detected in high levels in ground or surface water in areas where glyphosate is used extensively.  Furthermore, both glyphosate and AMPA are considered to be much more toxicologically and environmentally benign than most of the herbicides replaced by glyphosate.
Agricultural non-point source pollution in China: causes and mitigation measures.	Non-point source (NPS) pollution has been increasingly serious in China since the 1990s. The increases of agricultural NPS pollution in China is evaluated for the period 2000-2008 by surveying the literature on water and soil pollution from fertilizers and pesticides, and assessing the surplus nitrogen balance within provinces. The main causes for NPS pollution were excessive inputs of nitrogen fertilizer and pesticides, which were partly the result of the inadequate agricultural extension services and the rapid expansion of intensive livestock production with little of waste management. The annual application of synthetic nitrogen fertilizers and pesticides in China increased by 50.7 and 119.7%, respectively, during 1991-2008. The mitigation measures to reduce NPS pollution include: correct distortion in fertilizer prices; improve incentives for the recycling of organic manure; provide farmers with better information on the sound use of agro-chemicals; and tighten the regulations and national standards on organic waste disposal and pesticides use.
Characterization of dissolved organic matter in the rhizosphere of hyperaccumulator Sedum alfredii and its effect on the mobility of zinc.	Pot experiments were performed to investigate the characteristics of dissolved organic matter (DOM) in the rhizosphere soil of hyperaccumulating ecotype (HE) and a non-hyperaccumulating ecotype (NHE) of Sedum alfredii and its effects on the mobility of zinc (Zn). DOM was fractionated using XAD resins into six fractions. The acid fraction was the predominant component of DOM in the rhizosphere of S. alfredii, with hydrophilic acid (HiA), hydrophilic base (HiB), and hydrophilic neutral (HiN) in HE-DOM being 1.6, 1.9, and 1.2 times higher respectively, as compared to NHE-DOM. ATR-FTIR results showed that DOM in the rhizosphere of S. alfredii consisted of a mixture of hydroxylated and carboxylic acids, and HE-DOM exhibited more CO, OH, CC and CO functional groups than NHE-DOM. Resin equilibration experiment results indicated that DOM from the rhizosphere of both ecotypes of S. alfredii had the ability to form complexes with Zn, whereas the degree of complexation was significantly higher for HE-DOM (60%) than NHE-DOM (42%). The addition of HE-DOM significantly (P<0.05) increased the solubility of four Zn minerals while NHE-DOM was not as effective at the same concentration. It was concluded that DOM derived from the rhizosphere of hyperaccumulating ecotype of S. alfredii could significantly increase Zn mobility through the formation of soluble DOM-metal complexes, this might be one of the important mechanism by which S. alfredii is involved in activating metal in rhizosphere.
Arsenic and chromium speciation in an urban contaminated soil.	The distribution and speciation of As and Cr in a contaminated soil were studied by synchrotron-based X-ray microfluorescence (μ-XRF), microfocused X-ray absorption spectroscopy (μ-XAS), and bulk extended X-ray absorption fine structure spectroscopy (EXAFS). The soil was taken from a park in Wilmington, DE, which had been an important center for the leather tanning industry along the Atlantic seaboard of the United States, until the early 20th century. Soil concentrations of As, Cr, and Pb measured at certain locations in the park greatly exceeded the background levels of these heavy metals in the State of Delaware. Results show that Cr(III) and As(V) species are mainly present in the soil, with insignificant amounts of Cr(VI) and As(III). Micro-XRF maps show that Cr and Fe are distributed together in regions where their concentrations are diffuse, and at local spots where their concentrations are high. Iron oxides, which can reduce Cr(VI) to Cr(III), are present at some of these hot spots where Cr and Fe are highly concentrated. Arsenic is mainly associated with Al in the soil, and to a minor extent with Fe. Arsenate may be sorbed to aluminum oxides, which might have transformed after a long period of time into an As-Al precipitate phase, having a structure and chemical composition similar to mansfieldite (AlAsO(4)⋅2H(2)O). The latter hypothesis is supported by the fact that only a small amount of As present in the soil was desorbed using the characteristic toxicity leaching procedure tests. This suggests that As is immobilized in the soil.
Impact of metals in surface matrices from formal and informal electronic-waste recycling around Metro Manila, the Philippines, and intra-Asian comparison.	We report concentrations, enrichment factors, and hazard indicators of 11 metals (Ag, As, Cd, Co, Cu, Fe, In, Mn, Ni, Pb, and Zn) in soil and dust surface matrices from formal and informal electronic waste (e-waste) recycling sites around Metro Manila, the Philippines, referring to soil guidelines and previous data from various e-waste recycling sites in Asia. Surface dust from e-waste recycling sites had higher levels of metal contamination than surface soil. Comparison of formal and informal e-waste recycling sites (hereafter, "formal" and "informal") revealed differences in specific contaminants. Formal dust contained a mixture of serious pollutant metals (Ni, Cu, Pb, and Zn) and Cd (polluted modestly), quite high enrichment metals (Ag and In), and crust-derived metals (As, Co, Fe, and Mn). For informal soil, concentration levels of specific metals (Cd, Co, Cu, Mn, Ni, Pb, and Zn) were similar among Asian recycling sites. Formal dust had significantly higher hazardous risk than the other matrices (p<0.005), excluding informal dust (p=0.059, almost significant difference). Thus, workers exposed to formal dust should protect themselves from hazardous toxic metals (Pb and Cu). There is also a high health risk for children ingesting surface matrices from informal e-waste recycling sites.
PAH-sequestration capacity of granular and powder activated carbon amendments in soil, and their effects on earthworms and plants.	A field lysimeter study was carried out to investigate whether the amendment of 2% powder and granular activated carbon (PAC and GAC) to a soil with moderate PAH contamination had an impact on the PAH bioaccumulation of earthworms and plants, since AC is known to be a strong sorbent for organic pollutants. Furthermore, secondary effects of AC on plants and earthworms were studied through growth and nutrient uptake, and survival and weight gain. Additionally, the effect of AC amendments on soil characteristics like pH, water holding capacity, and the water retention curve of the soil were investigated. Results show that the amendment of 2% PAC had a negative effect on plant growth while the GAC increased the growth rate of plants. PAC was toxic to earthworms, demonstrated by a significant weight loss, while the results for GAC were less clear due to ambiguous results of a field and a parallel laboratory study. Both kinds of AC significantly reduced biota to soil accumulation factors (BSAFs) of PAHs in earthworms and plants. The GAC reduced the BSAFs of earthworms by an average of 47 ± 44% and the PAC amendment reduced them by 72 ± 19%. For the investigated plants the BSAFs were reduced by 46 ± 36% and 53 ± 22% by the GAC and PAC, respectively.
Simultaneous extraction of Cr(VI) and Cu(II) from humic acid with new synthesized EDTA derivatives.	Soil washing is one of the few permanent treatment alternatives for removing metal contaminants. Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid and its salts (EDTA) is very effective at removing cationic metals and has been utilized globally. However it is ineffective for anionic metal contaminants or metals bound to soil organic matter. The simultaneous removal of cationic and anionic metal contaminants by soil washing is difficult due to differences in their properties. The present study evaluated the potential of a washing process using two synthesized EDTA-derivatives, C(6)HEDTA (2,2'-((2-((carboxymethyl)(2-(hexanoyloxy)ethyl)amino)ethyl)azanediyl)diacetic acid) and C(12)HEDTA (2,2'-((2-((carboxymethyl) (2-(dodecanoyloxy)ethyl)amino)ethyl)azanediyl)diacetic acid), which consist of a hydrophilic polycarboxylic moiety and a hydrophobic moiety with a monoalkyl ester group. A series of equilibrium batch experiments at room temperature were conducted to investigate the efficacy of C(6)HEDTA and C(12)HEDTA as extractants for both oxyanion Cr(VI) and cationic Cu(II). Results showed that either C(6)HEDTA or C(12)HEDTA can extract both Cr(VI) and Cu(II) from humic acid simultaneously. However, C(6)HEDTA was less effective for Cr(VI) probably because it has no surface activities to increase solubility of humic acid, like C(12)HEDTA. Extraction of Cr(VI) was mainly attributed to the decreased surface tension and enhanced solubility of organic matter. Extraction of Cu(II) was attributed to both the Cu(II) chelation and enhanced solubility of humic acid. It was demonstrated that the hydrophilic polycarboxylic moiety of C(12)HEDTA chelates cations while the monoalkyl ester group produces surface active properties that enhance the solubility of humic acid.
Assessment of the leaching potential of 12 substituted phenylurea herbicides in two agricultural soils under laboratory conditions.	In this study, the potential groundwater pollution of 12 substituted phenylurea herbicides (chlorbromuron, chlorotoluron, diuron, fenuron, fluometuron, isoproturon, linuron, metobromuron, metoxuron, monolinuron, Monuron, and neburon) was investigated under laboratory conditions. For this purpose, leaching studies were conducted using disturbed soil columns filled with two different agricultural soils, one hypercalcic calcisol (HC) and the other endoleptic phaeozem (EP). In the case of the HC, all of the studied herbicides were found in leachates, while for the EP only, chlorbromuron, chlorotoluron, isoproturon, monolinuron, and, especially, fenuron were recovered. For both soils, the groundwater ubiquity score (GUS) index was calculated for each herbicide on the basis of its persistence (as t(1/2)) and mobility (as K(OC)). The half-lives obtained were markedly higher in the EP (217-518 days) than in the HC (71-178 days). As a consequence, higher values of GUS indexes were observed for EP. The ratio of the GUS between the EP and the HC was about 1.3.
EDTA and HCl leaching of calcareous and acidic soils polluted with potentially toxic metals: remediation efficiency and soil impact.	The environmental risk of potentially toxic metals (PTMs) in soil can be diminished by their removal. Among the available remediation techniques, soil leaching with various solutions is one of the most effective but data about the impact on soil chemical and biological properties are still scarce. We studied the effect of two common leaching agents, hydrochloric acid (HCl) and a chelating agent (EDTA) on Pb, Zn, Cd removal and accessibility and on physico-chemical and biological properties in one calcareous, pH neutral soil and one non-calcareous acidic soil. EDTA was a more efficient leachant compared to HCl: up to 133-times lower chelant concentration was needed for the same percentage (35%) of Pb removal. EDTA and HCl concentrations with similar PTM removal efficiency decreased PTM accessibility in both soils but had different impacts on soil properties. As expected, HCl significantly dissolved carbonates from calcareous soil, while EDTA leaching increased the pH of the acidic soil. Enzyme activity assays showed that leaching with HCl had a distinctly negative impact on soil microbial and enzyme activity, while leaching with EDTA had less impact. Our results emphasize the importance of considering the ecological impact of remediation processes on soil in addition to the capacity for PTM removal.
Strategies to enhance the biological nitrogen removal of high-strength ammonium and low C/N landfill leachate with the SBR process.	The treatment of high ammonium-nitrogen concentration landfill leachate has become an increasing problem because of the requirements to reduce nutrient emissions. A laboratory-scale sequential batch reactor (SBR) was operated and tested in order to optimize the operational strategies of a cost-saving method to enhance the removal of ammonium-nitrogen from a real landfill leachate. Two sequence schemes were tested, one with long non-aerated/aerated sequences and another with short sequences. The air supply levels with low to intermediate dissolved oxygen (DO) and external carbon addition were altered. With both schemes a high ammonium reduction (> 99%) and a reasonable total nitrogen (TN) reduction (around 60%) could be achieved with strong carbon limitation (BOD7/N = 1.1). Chemical oxygen demand (COD) removal was lower with longer sequences. Denitrification via nitrite seemed to be an important part of TN removal, controlled with the low DO. With increasing nitrite accumulation COD/N removed decreased in both schemes indicating clearly a more efficient use of COD. The scheme with short sequences indicated advantages to save the air supply preventing nitrite oxidation under low air supply conditions and better TN and COD removal efficiencies. The results show that an applicable operational strategy can be found resulting in a reasonable pre-treatment option in landfills, requiring less carbon and aeration energy.
Significance of physical weathering of two-texturally different soils for the saturated transport of Escherichia coli and bromide.	This study was carried out to investigate the transport of Escherichia coli NAR and bromide (Br) through repacked (R) and weathered (W) soil columns. A suspension containing E. coli NAR and Br were leached and the effluent from the weathered soil columns had greater contaminant concentrations than that from the repacked soil columns. The time to the concentration peak of (C(max)) E. coli NAR and Br increased in the order CL-W < SL-W < SL-R < CL-R. The breakthrough sequence suggests the formation of a heterogeneous soil pore network induced by weathering and the importance of accelerated flow in the weathered columns. The dual-permeability model in HYDRUS-1D software was used to simulate the E. coli NAR and Br transport parameters by inverse modeling. Parameters of the attachment-detachment model were calculated using the dual-permeability model parameters fitted to the BTCs of E. coli NAR. A greater attachment coefficient associated with soil repacking and the finer textured clayey soil demonstrated the importance of adsorbent site and smaller pore spacing in these treatments. Smaller attachment and adsorption isotherm coefficients in weathered soil columns suggest the need for further research to validate this as a predictive model for the risks for vadose zone contaminant transport.
Chlorobenzenes and organochlorinated pesticides in vegetable soils from an industrial site, China.	Organochlorinated compounds are ubiquitous contaminants in the environment, especially in industrial sites. The objective of the work was to investigate whether a vegetable field near an industrial site is safe for vegetable production. The residues of chlorobenzenes (CBs), hexachlorocyclohexanes (HCHs) and dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethanes (DDTs) in a vegetable field which was near a chemical plant in China were characterized. Point estimate quotient was used for ecological risk assessment of the investigated site. The results showed that all CBs except monochlorobenzene (MCB) were detected in soils. The total concentrations of sigmaCBs ranged from 71.06 to 716.57 ng/g, with a mean concentration of 434.93 ng/g. The main components of CBs in soil samples were dichlorobenzenes (DCBs), trichlorobenzenes (TCBs) and tetrachlorobenzenes (TeCBs), while for single congeners, 1,2,4-TCB had the highest concentration, which ranged from 13.21 to 210.35 ng/g with a mean concentration of 111.89 ng/g. Residues of hexachlorobenzene (HCB) in soil samples ranged from 0.9 to 11.79 ng/g, significantly lower than sigmaDCB, sigmaTCB and sigmaTeCB. Concentrations of sigmaHCHs and sigmaDDTs in soils ranged from 11.32 to 55.24 ng/g and from 195.63 to 465.58 ng/g, respectively, of which the main components were alpha-HCH and p,p'-dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (p,p'-DDE). Ecological risk assessment for the investigated site showed that the most potential risks were from TCBs and TeCBs, based on the hazard quotients. The higher residues of CBs and DDTs compared to the target values and the higher than 1 hazard quotients indicated that this area is not safe for vegetable production and thus soil remediation is needed.
Heavy metal phytoextraction by Sedum alfredii is affected by continual clipping and phosphorus fertilization amendment.	Improving the efficacy of phytoextraction is critical for its successful application in metal contaminated soils. Mineral nutrition affects plant growth and metal absorption and subsequently the accumulation of heavy metal through hyper-accumulator plants. This study assessed the effects of di-hydrogen phosphates (KH2PO4, Ca(H2PO4)2, NaH2PO4 and NH4H2PO4) application at three levels (22, 88 and 352 mg P/kg soil) on Sedum alfredii growth and metal uptake by three consecutive harvests on aged and Zn/Cd combined contaminated paddy soil. The addition of phosphates (P) significantly increased the amount of Zn taken up by S. alfredii due to increased shoot Zn concentration and dry matter yield (DMY) (P < 0.05). The highest phytoextraction of Zn and Cd was observed in KH2PO4 and NH4H2PO4 treatment at 352 mg P/kg soil. The amount of Zn removed by phytoextraction increased in the order of 1st clipping < 2nd clipping < 3rd clipping, and for Cd extraction the order was 2nd clipping < 1st clipping < 3rd clipping. These results indicate that the application of P fertilizers coupled with multiple cuttings can enhance the removal of Zn and Cd from contaminated soils by S. alfredii, thus shortening the time needed for accomplishing remediation goals.
Uptake, translocation, and debromination of polybrominated diphenyl ethers in maize.	Uptake, translocation and debromination of three polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs), BDE-28, -47 and -99, in maize were studied in a hydroponic experiment. Roots took up most of the PBDEs in the culture solutions and more highly brominated PBDEs had a stronger uptake capability. PBDEs were detected in the stems and leaves of maize after exposure but rarely detected in the blank control plants. Furthermore, PBDE concentrations decreased from roots to stems and then to leaves, and a very clear decreasing gradient was found in segments upwards along the stem. These altogether provide substantiating evidence for the acropetal translocation of PBDEs in maize. More highly brominated PBDEs were translocated with more difficulty. Radial translocation of PBDEs from nodes to sheath inside maize was also observed. Both acropetal and radial translocations were enhanced at higher transpiration rates, suggesting that PBDE transport was probably driven by the transpiration stream. Debromination of PBDEs occurred in all parts of the maize, and debromination patterns of different parent PBDEs and in different parts of a plant were similar but with some differences. This study for the first time provides direct evidence for the acropetal translocation of PBDEs within plants, elucidates the process of PBDE transport and clarifies the debromination products of PBDEs in maize.
Spatial distribution and pollution assessment of heavy metals in urban soils from southwest China.	To identify the concentrations and sources of heavy metals, and to assess soil environmental quality, 63 soil samples were collected in Yibin City, Sichuan Province, China. Mean concentrations of As, Pb, Zn, and Cu were 10.55, 61.23, 138.88 and 56.35 mg/kg, respectively. As concentrations were comparable to background values, while Pb, Zn, and Cu concentrations were higher than their corresponding background values. Industrial areas exhibited the highest concentrations of As, Pb, Zn, and Cu, while the lowest concentrations occurred in parks. Statistical analysis was performed and two cluster groups of metals were identified with Pb, Zn, and Cu in one group and As in the other. Spatial distribution maps indicated that Pb, Zn, and Cu were mainly controlled by anthropogenic activities, whereas As could be mainly accounted for by soil parent materials. Pollution index values of As, Pb, Zn, and Cu varied in the range of 0.24-1.93, 0.66-7.24, 0.42-4.19, and 0.62-5.25, with mean values of 0.86, 1.98, 1.61, and 1.78, respectively. The integrated pollution index (IPI) values of these metals varied from 0.82 to 3.54, with a mean of 1.6 and more than 90% of soil samples were moderately or highly contaminated with heavy metals. The spatial distribution of IPI showed that newer urban areas displayed relatively lower heavy metal contamination in comparison with older urban areas.
Sorption and cosorption of the nonionic herbicide mefenacet and heavy metals on soil and its components.	Sorption and cosorption of the nonionic herbicide mefenacet and two typical metals (copper and silver) on black soil and its components (kaolinite and humic acid) were investigated. It was found that because of their different valences and properties, Cu2+ and Ag+ presented different effects on the sorption of mefenacet. Due to the competition of Cu2+, along with the shells of dense water formed by its surface complexation, for sorption surface area with mefenacet, the addition of Cu2+ decreased the sorption amount of mefenacet on soil and its components, especially on humic acid. However, the addition of Ag+ significantly enhanced the sorption of mefenacet, which was attributed to the softness of the cation that weakened the hydrophilicity of the local region around Ag(+)-complexed functionalities, and thus mitigated the competitive sorption of water. In addition, the sorption of mefenacet on soil with or without the two metals was generally decreased with increasing pH, which was caused by the hydrolysis of carbonyl and carboxyl groups on the surface of the sorbents, pi-pi interaction between mefenacet and the soil organic matter, and so on. On the other hand, the presence of mefenacet seemed to have little effect on the sorption of Cu2+ and Ag+, indicating that Cu2+ and Ag+ might be sorbed strongly on the tested sorbents and the mefenacet added was too low in concentration to affect the sorption of the metals.
Leaching behavior of enrofloxacin in three different soils and the influence of a surfactant on its mobility.	The leaching behaviors of enrofloxacin (ENR), a fluoroquinolone group antibiotic, in three different standard soils, namely sandy, loamy sand and sandy loam were investigated according to OECD guideline 312. In addition, the effects of tenside, sodium dodecylbenzenesulfonate (DBS) on the mobility of ENR in two different soils were studied. The mobility of ENR in all three standard soils was very similar and was mostly (98%) concentrated on the top 0-5 cm segment of the soils at pH 5.7. The DBS can enhance the mobility of ENR in soils but the impact was in general negligible under the studied conditions.
Bacterial reduction and release of adsorbed arsenate on Fe(III)-, Al- and coprecipitated Fe(III)/Al-hydroxides.	Mobilization of arsenic under anaerobic conditions is of great concern in arsenic contaminated soils and sediments. Bacterial reduction of As(V) and Fe(II) influences the cycling and partitioning of arsenic between solid and aqueous phase. We investigated the impact of bacterially mediated reductions of Fe(III)/Al hydroxides-bound arsenic(V) and iron(III) oxides on arsenic release. Our results suggested that As(V) reduction occurred prior to Fe(III) reduction, and Fe(III) reduction did not enhance the release of arsenic. Instead, Fe(III) hydroxides retained their dissolved concentrations during the experimental process, even though the new iron mineral-magnetite formed. In contrast, the release of reduced As(III) was promoted greatly when aluminum hydroxides was incorporated. Thus, the substitution of aluminum hydroxides may be responsible for the release of arsenic in the contaminated soils and sediments, since aluminum substitution of Fe(III) hydroxides universally occurs under natural conditions.
Structure-toxicity relationship of chloroacetanilide herbicides: relative impact on soil microorganisms.	The research was carried out to ascertain the effect of three chloroacetanilide herbicides, alachlor, butachlor and pretilachlor on soil microbial biomass growth and activity. Laboratory experiments were performed in a silty clay loam soil to relate changes of soil enzymatic activity to the herbicide persistence under laboratory condition up to 42 days at three application rates. The results showed that all the three herbicides caused enhancement of dehydrogenase activity. Higher concentrations of herbicide resulted in enhancement of the enzymatic activity. In addition, a similar trend was observed in β-glucosidase and acid phosphatase activity, although urease activity decreased upon incubation for 42 days as compared with initial soil incubation values. Based on the extent of impact for dehydrogenase activity in soil, the order was pretilachlor>alachlor>butachlor; whereas in case of urease activity, the order changed to pretilachlor>butachlor>alachlor. The soil half-lives of alachlor, butachlor and pretilachlor respectively, were 9.3, 12.7 and 7.3 days, which could be accounted for in terms of their respective chemical structures, as well as variable adsorption, degradation, differential effects of the agents on soil microbes. Soil management practices and the differing physicochemical properties of the herbicides may contribute to their rates of decay in soil.
Comparative assessment of the effect of synthetic and natural fungicides on soil respiration.	As toxic pesticide residues may persist in agricultural soils and cause environmental pollution, research on natural fungicides to replace the synthetic compounds is currently increasing. The effect of the synthetic fungicide chlorothalonil and a natural potential fungicide on the soil microbial activity was evaluated here by the substrate-induced respiration by addition of glucose (SIR), as bioindicator in two soils (Eutrophic Humic Gley-GHE and Typic Eutroferric Chernosol-AVEC). The induced soil respiration parameter was followed during 28 days after soil treatment either with chlorathalonil (11 μg·g(-1)), or the methanolic fraction from Polymnia sonchifolia extraction (300 μg·g(-1)), and (14)C-glucose (4.0 mg and 5.18 Bq of (14)C-glucose g(-1)). The (14)C-CO(2) produced by the microbial respiration was trapped in NaOH (0.1 M) which was changed each two hours during the first 10 h, and 1, 3, 5, 7, 14 and 28 days after the treatments. The methanolic fraction of the plant extract inhibited (2.2%) and stimulated (1.8%) the respiration of GHE and AVEC, respectively, but the synthetic chlorothalonil caused 16.4% and 2.6% inhibition of the respiration, respectively of the GHE and AVEC soils. As the effects of the natural product were statistically small, this bioindicator indicates that the methanolic fraction of the Polymnia sonchifolia extract, which has fungicide properties, has no environmental effects.
The fate and transport of nitroglycerin in the unsaturated zone at active and legacy anti-tank firing positions.	The environmental fate of nitroglycerin (NG) in the unsaturated zone was evaluated in the context of double-base propellant residue deposition at anti-tank training ranges. Fresh propellant residues were collected during live anti-tank training. Surface soils, sub-surface soils and water samples from the unsaturated zone were collected at an active anti-tank range, and at a legacy site where NG-based propellants have been used. Results show that the residues are composed of intact propellant particles, as well as small quantities of NG, dinitroglycerin (DNG) and nitrate which are rapidly dissolved by precipitation, resulting in sporadic pulses of those compounds in water from the unsaturated zone after rain/snow melt events. The dissolved NG and DNG can be progressively degraded in the unsaturated zone, releasing nitrate as an end-product. Over a period of several years, small propellant particles located at the soil surface can be carried downward through the soil pore system by infiltration water, which explains the presence of NG in sub-surface soils at the legacy site, more than 35 years after site closure. NG is no longer leached from these old particles, therefore the detection of NG in sub-surface soils does not signify that groundwater is at risk of contamination by NG.
Modeling field-scale vertical movement of zinc and copper in a pig slurry-amended soil in Brazil.	Organic amendments often represent a source of trace metals (TMs) in soils, which may partly leach into the groundwater. The objectives of this study were (1) to validate Hydrus-2D for modeling the transport of Zn and Cu in an Alfisol amended with pig slurry (PS) by comparing numerical simulations and experimental field data, and (2) to model the next 50 years of TM movements under scenarios of suspended or continued PS amendments. First, between 2000 and 2008, we collected detailed Zn and Cu data from a soil profile in Santa Maria, Brazil. Two hypotheses about Zn and Cu reactivity with the solid phase were tested, considering physical, hydraulic, and chemical characteristics of six soil layers. Using a two-site sorption model with a sorption kinetic rate adjusted based on laboratory EDTA extractions, Hydrus simulations of the vertical TM transport were found to satisfactorily describe the soil Zn and Cu concentration profiles. Second, the long-term fate of Zn and Cu in the soil was assessed using the validated parameterized model. Numerical simulations showed that Zn and Cu did not present risks for groundwater pollution. However, future Cu accumulation in the surface soil layer would exceed the Brazilian threshold for agricultural soils.
Molasses enhanced phyto and bioremediation treatability study of explosives contaminated Hawaiian soils.	A 15-week treatability study was conducted in a greenhouse to evaluate the potential effects of molasses on the bioremediation and phytoremediation potential of Guinea Grass (Panicum maximum) for treating energetic contaminated soil from the open burn/open detonation area of the Makua Military Reservation, Oahu, HI (USA). The energetics in the soil were royal demolition explosive (RDX) and high-melting explosive (HMX). Among the 6 treatments employed in this study, enhanced removal of RDX was observed from treatments that received molasses and went to completion. The RDX degradation rates in treatments with molasses diluted 1:20 and 1:40 were comparable suggesting that the lower dose worked as well as the higher dose. Treatments without molasses degraded RDX slowly and residuals remained after 15 weeks. The bacterial densities in molasses-treated units were much greater than those without molasses. Phytoremediation alone seems to have little effect on RDX disappearance. For HMX, neither bioremediation nor phytoremediation was found to be useful in reducing the concentration within the experimental period. The concentrations of nitrogen and phosphorous in the soil did not change significantly during the experiment, however, a slight increase in soil pH was observed in all treatments. The study showed that irrigating with diluted molasses is effective at enhancing RDX degradation mainly in the root zone and just below it. The long term sustainability of active training ranges can be enhanced by bioremediation using molasses treatments to prevent RDX deposited by on-going operations from migrating through the soil to groundwater and off-site.
Sorption-bioavailability nexus of arsenic and cadmium in variable-charge soils.	In this work, the nexus between sorption and bioavailability of arsenic (As) and cadmium (Cd) as affected by soil type, soil pH, ageing, and mobilizing agents were examined. The adsorption of As and Cd was examined using a number of allophanic and non-allophanic soils which vary in their charge components. The effect of pH and ageing on the bioavailability of As and Cd was examined using spiked soils in a plant growth experiment. The effect of phosphate (P)-induced mobility of As on its bioavailability was examined using a naturally contaminated sheep dip soil. The results indicated that the adsorption of both As and Cd varied amongst the soils, and the difference in Cd adsorption is attributed to the difference in surface charge. An increase in soil pH increased net negative charge by an average of 45.7 mmol/kg/pH thereby increasing cation (Cd) adsorption; whereas, the effect of pH on anion (As) adsorption was inconsistent. The bioavailability of As and Cd decreased by 3.31- and 2.30-fold, respectively, with ageing which may be attributed to increased immobilization. Phosphate addition increased the mobility and bioavailability of As by 4.34- and 3.35-fold, respectively, in the sheep dip soil. However, the net effect of P on As phytoavailability depends on the extent of P-induced As mobilization in soils and P-induced competition for As uptake by roots. The results demonstrate the nexus between sorption and bioavailability of As and Cd in soils, indicating that the effects of various factors on bioavailability are mediated through their effects on sorption reactions.
Selective sorption of dissolved organic carbon compounds by temperate soils.	Physico-chemical sorption onto soil minerals is one of the major processes of dissolved organic carbon (OC) stabilization in deeper soils. The interaction of DOC on soil solids is related to the reactivity of soil minerals, the chemistry of sorbate functional groups, and the stability of sorbate to microbial degradation. This study was conducted to examine the sorption of diverse OC compounds (D-glucose, L-alanine, oxalic acid, salicylic acid, and sinapyl alcohol) on temperate climate soil orders (Mollisols, Ultisols and Alfisols).
Adsorption characteristics of ciprofloxacin in ustic cambosols]	In order to understand the adsorption characteristics of ciprofloxacin in ustic cambosols, static adsorption experiments were used to investigate dynamic and isothermal adsorption characteristics of ciprofloxacin in ustic cambosols, influence of pH on the adsorption process. Results showed that the absorption process of ciprofloxacin can be divided into two stages: fast adsorption and slow balance. The adsorption processes followed the pseudo-second-order kinetics, with adsorption rate of 1.138 x 10(-3) - 2.849 x 10(-2) kg x (min x mg)(-1). Adsorption isotherms of ciprofloxacin in ustic cambosols were well described by the Freundlich and Langmuir equation, Freundlich equation is more applicable than Langmuir equation, with the adsorption capacity (lgKf) of 2.725. Moreover, at the tested pH interval of 4-9, lgKd values of ciprofloxacin increased and then decreased with the increase of pH in ustic cambosols; the maximum adsorption of ciprofloxacin in ustic cambosols can be obtained when the pH value was 5 with lgKd value was 3.11; strong acid or alkali conditions were unfavorable to ciprofloxacin adsorption. It could be deduced that cationic adsorptions was one of the significant sorption mechanisms for ciprofloxacin in ustic cambosols.
Applicability of non-exhaustive extraction procedures with Tenax and HPCD.	Chemical extraction techniques like non-exhaustive extraction with Tenax or hydroxypropyl-β-cyclodextrin (HPCD) have been shown to measure the biodegradable fraction of aromatic contaminants like PAHs in soil. However, there is little research on the chemical prediction of aliphatic hydrocarbon degradation. The aim of this study was to investigate the potential for HPCD and Tenax extractions to predict PAH and petroleum hydrocarbon biodegradation in soil. 11 historically contaminated soils with PAH concentrations between 74 and 680 mg/kg and concentrations of petroleum hydrocarbons from 330 to 4,704 mg/kg were analysed. Both non-exhaustive extraction procedures showed promising results for estimating the available contaminant fraction of both contaminant groups concerning the feasibility, reproducibility and correlation with soil biodegradation applying single point testing. Both methods have the potential to be used to assess the biodegradable hydrophobic organic pollutant fraction in contaminated soils. In a direct comparison of the two extraction procedures, Tenax extraction is assessed to be more time-consuming than HPCD extraction. Furthermore, a sufficient soil/Tenax ratio has to be considered.
Lead immobilization and bioavailability in microbial and root interface.	A range of both soluble and insoluble phosphate (P) compounds have been used to immobilize Pb in solution and soil. However, these compounds have limitations because of low solubility or leaching of P. Phosphate solubilizing bacteria (PSB) can be used to enhance the solubility of insoluble P compounds. The effects of PSB on the immobilization of Pb in the presence of phosphate rock (PR) and subsequent reduction in Pb uptake by Indian mustard (Brassica juncea) in nutrient agar medium and ryegrass (Lolium perenne) in soil under sterile condition were tested. Root colonization of PSB was confirmed by halo formation around the root in the medium containing tricalcium phosphate. Addition of PR in the presence of PSB immobilized Pb in both agar medium and soil, and reduced Pb translocation from root to shoot. Furthermore, shoot Pb concentrations of Indian mustard in agar medium and ryegrass in soil were decreased by 58.1% and 22.8%, respectively, compared to the control. Even though soluble P compound was the most effective in the immobilization of Pb, excess P may cause eutrophication. Therefore, PSB are suggested as a co-amendment to facilitate immobilization of Pb without causing any detrimental effect on the environment. 
Impact of black carbon on the bioaccessibility of organic contaminants in soil.	The ability of carbonaceous geosorbents (CGs) such as black carbon (BC) to extensively sorb many common environmental contaminants suggests that they potentially possesses qualities useful to the sequestration of harmful xenobiotics within contaminated land. Presently, however, there is limited understanding of the implications for the bioaccessibility, mobility and environmental risk of organic contaminants while sorbed to BC in soil and sediment, in addition to the inherent toxicity of BC itself to terrestrial flora and fauna. We review both the processes involved in and factors influencing BC sorption characteristics, and ultimately consider the impacts BC will have for bioavailability/bioaccessibility, toxicity and risk assessment/remediation of contaminated land. We conclude that while the application of BC is promising, additional work on both their toxicity effects and long-term stability is required before their full potential as a remediation agent can be safely exploited.
Chemodynamics of chromium reduction in soils: implications to bioavailability.	Chromium toxicity in soils can be mitigated by reduction of Cr(VI) to Cr(III) which is influenced by the presence of free Cr(VI) species in soil solution, and the supply of protons and electrons. In this study, the effects of Cr(VI) adsorption (i.e. availability of free Cr(VI) species in soil solution), soil pH (i.e. supply of protons) and three electron donor carbon sources [black carbon (BC), chicken manure biochar (CMB) and cow manure (CM)] on the reduction of Cr(VI) to Cr(III) in soils were investigated. The results indicated that the rate of Cr(VI) reduction decreased with an increase in Cr(VI) adsorption and soil pH, which is attributed to decreased supply of free Cr(VI) ions and protons, respectively. Among the three different amendments tested, BC showed the highest rate of Cr(VI) reduction followed by CM and CMB. Furthermore, addition of BC, CM and CMB decreased the bioavailability of Cr(VI) in contaminated soils. The high efficiency of BC on Cr(VI) reduction was due to the electron donor's functional groups such as phenolic, hydroxyl, carbonyl and amides. The study demonstrated that free form of Cr(VI) ions in soil solution and carbon amendments enriched with acidic functional groups favored the reduction of Cr(VI), thereby mitigating its bioavailability and toxicity in contaminated soils. 
Carbonaceous resin capsule for vapor-phase monitoring of volatile hydrocarbons in soil: partitioning and kinetic model verification.	The resin capsule system (RCS) was tested as a means of providing data on the presence and forms of volatile hydrocarbons. Results indicated that resin capsules provided data showing sensitivity to soil variables (texture and moisture content) and time. The objectives of this paper are to evaluate the RCS methodology and to determine whether carbonaceous resin capsules provide results that can be described by fundamental chemical partitioning and kinetic principles. Findings revealed a significant relationship between quantities of benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, and xylene adsorbed on the capsule and quantities partitioned into the vapor phase. Kinetic evaluation indicated that the vapor adsorption by the resin capsule is regulated by diffusion processes. No verification of rate-limiting processes was possible due to limitations imposed by the experimental design, but it appears that during early stages, adsorption rate was limited by vapor diffusion through the soil. The resin capsule data also reflected differences that would be expected due to properties of the organic liquids present. These results provide further evidence that the RCS could be developed to suggest direct in situ monitoring to reveal quantities and nature of organic substances in soils. 
Fluorescence excitation-emission matrix spectra coupled with parallel factor and regional integration analysis to characterize organic matter humification.	The present several humification indexes cannot provide the whole fluorescence information on organic matter composition and the evaluation results from them are inconsistent sometimes. In this study, fluorescence excitation-emission matrix spectra coupled with parallel factor analysis and fluorescence regional integration analysis were utilized to investigate organic matter humification, and the projection pursuit cluster (PPC) model was applied to form a suitable index for overcoming the difficulties in multi-index evaluation. The result showed that the ratio between the volume of humic- and fulvic-like fluorescence region and the volume of protein-like fluorescence region not only revealed the heterogeneity of organic matter, but also provided more accurate information on organic matter humification. In addition, the results showed that the PPC model could be used to characterize integrally the humification, and the projected characteristic value calculated from the PPC model could be used as the integrated humification evaluation index. 
Application of green zero-valent iron nanoparticles to the remediation of soils contaminated with ibuprofen.	Zero-valent iron nanoparticles (nZVIs) are often used in environmental remediation. Their high surface area that is associated with their high reactivity makes them an excellent agent capable of transforming/degrading contaminants in soils and waters. Due to the recent development of green methods for the production of nZVIs, the use of this material became even more attractive. However, the knowledge of its capacity to degrade distinct types of contaminants is still scarce. The present work describes the study of the application of green nZVIs to the remediation of soils contaminated with a common anti-inflammatory drug, ibuprofen. The main objectives of this work were to produce nZVIs using extracts of grape marc, black tea and vine leaves, to verify the degradation of ibuprofen in aqueous solutions by the nZVIs, to study the remediation process of a sandy soil contaminated with ibuprofen using the nZVIs, and to compare the experiments with other common chemical oxidants. The produced nZVIs had nanometric sizes and were able to degrade ibuprofen (54 to 66% of the initial amount) in aqueous solutions. Similar remediation efficiencies were obtained in sandy soils. In this case the remediation could be enhanced (achieving degradation efficiencies above 95%) through the complementation of the process with a catalyzed nZVI Fenton-like reaction. These results indicate that this remediation technology represents a good alternative to traditional and more aggressive technologies. 
Comparative studies of multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWNTs) and octadecyl (C18) as sorbents in passive sampling devices for biomimetic uptake of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) from soils.	To avoid overestimating the risk of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), research is needed to evaluate the bioavailable portion of PAHs in the environment. However, limited PSDs were developed for a terrestrial soil system. In this study, two sorbents, octadecyl (C18) and multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWNTs), were individually evaluated as sorbents in passive sampling devices (PSDs) as biomimetic samplers to assess the uptake of PAHs from soil. C18-PSDs were an excellent biomimetic tool for PAHs with a low molecular weight in complex exposure conditions with different soil types, types of PAHs, aging periods, and initial PAH concentrations in soil. The utility of MWNT-PSDs was limited by extraction efficiencies of PAHs from MWNTs. However, when compared to C18-PSDs, they had higher adsorption capacities and were less expensive. This study provides data regarding useful techniques that can be used in risk assessment to assess the bioavailability of PAHs in soil. 
Harnessing plant-microbe interactions for enhancing farm productivity.	Declining soil fertility and farm productivity is a major global concern in order to achieve food security for a burgeoning world population. It is reported that improving soil health alone can increase productivity by 10-15% and in combination with efficient plant traits, farm productivity can be increased up to 50-60%. In this article we explore the emerging microbial and bioengineering technologies, which can be employed to achieve the transformational increase in farm productivity and can simultaneously enhance environmental outcomes i.e., low green house gas (GHG) emissions. We argue that metagenomics, meta-transcriptomics and metabolomics have potential to provide fundamental knowledge on plant-microbes interactions necessary for new innovations to increase farm productivity. Further, these approaches provide tools to identify and select novel microbial/gene resources which can be harnessed in transgenic and designer plant technologies for enhanced resource use efficiencies. 
Characteristics of biochar and its application in remediation of contaminated soil.	Biochar is produced by thermal decomposition of biomass under oxygen-limited conditions (pyrolysis), and it has received attention in soil remediation and waste disposal in recent years. The characteristics of biochar are influenced mainly by the preparation temperature and biomass. Higher pyrolysis temperature often results in the increased surface area and carbonized fraction of biochar leading to high sorption capability for pollutants. Biochars derived from various source materials show different properties of surface area, porosity and the amount of functional groups which are important concerning on the effect of biochar. Biochar has been proved to be effective in improving soil properties and increasing crop biomass. It has also been suggested that it can even enhance crop resistance to disease. Biochar has recently been used to remediate soil with both heavy metal and organic pollutants. The mechanism is electrostatic interaction and precipitation in the case of heavy metal, and the surface adsorption, partition and sequestration in the case of organic contaminants. However, application of biochar in soil has been shown to result in decreased efficacy of pesticides, which indicates a trade-off between the potentially promising effect of biochar on pesticide remediation and its negative effect on pesticide efficacy. While arguments on the effectiveness of biochar appear sound, further research is needed prior to widespread application of biochar in soil remediation. 
Dissipation kinetics of tetraconazole in three types of soil and water under laboratory condition.	Laboratory experiment was conducted to understand the persistence behavior of tetraconazole in three soils of West Bengal (alluvial, red lateritic, and coastal saline) and also in water maintained at three different pH (4.0, 7.0, and 9.2) conditions. Processed soil samples (100 g) were spiked at two treatment doses: 2.5 μg/g (T₁) and 5.0 μg/g (T₂). Double distilled buffered water (200 ml) was spiked at two treatment doses: 1.0 μg/ml (T₁) and 2.00 μg/ml (T₂). The tetraconazole dissipation followed first-order reaction kinetics and the residual half-life (T₁/₂) values in soil were found to be in the range of 66.9-77.2 days for T₁ and 73.4-86.0 days for T₂. The persistence increased in the order red lateritic > new alluvial > coastal saline. Interestingly, the red lateritic soil exhibited the lowest pH (5.56) and organic carbon (0.52%) content as compared to other two soils. However, the dissipation of tetraconazole in case of water was not pH dependant. The T₁/₂ values in water were in the range of 94 to 125 days. The study indicated the persistent nature of tetraconazole in soil and water.
Degradation, metabolism, and bound-residue formation and release of Tetrabromobisphenol A in soil during sequential anoxic-oxic incubation.	Tetrabromobisphenol A (TBBPA) is one of the most commonly used flame retardants and has become an environmental contaminant worldwide. We studied the fate of (14)C-labeled TBBPA in soil under static anoxic (195 days) and sequential anoxic (125 days)-oxic (70 days) conditions. During anoxic incubation, TBBPA dissipated with a half-life of 36 days, yielding four debromination metabolites: bisphenol A (BPA) and mono-, di-, and tribrominated BPA. At the end of anoxic incubation, all four brominated BPAs completely disappeared, leaving BPA (54% of initial TBBPA) as the sole detectable organic metabolite. TBBPA dissipation was accompanied by trace mineralization (<1.3%) and substantial bound-residue formation (35%), probably owing to chemical binding to soil organic matter. Subsequent oxic incubation was effective in degrading accumulated BPA (half-life 11 days) through mineralization (6%) and bound-residue formation (62%). However, 42% of the anoxically formed bound residues was released as TBBPA and lower brominated BPAs, which were then persistent during oxic incubation. Our results provide the first evidence for release of bound residues during alteration of the redox environment and indicate that sequential anoxic-oxic incubation approaches-considered effective in remediation of environments containing halogenated xenobiotics-do not completely remove xenobiotics from environmental matrices. 
Effectiveness of urea in enhancing the extractability of 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene from chemically variant soils.	One of the major challenges in developing an effective phytoremediation technology for 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene (TNT) contaminated soils is limited plant uptake resulting from low solubility of TNT. The effectiveness of urea as a solubilizing agent in increasing plant uptake of TNT in hydroponic systems has been documented. Our preliminary greenhouse experiments using urea were also very promising, but further characterization of the performance of urea in highly-complex soil-solution was necessary. The present study investigated the natural retention capacity of four chemically variant soils and optimized the factors influencing the effectiveness of urea in enhancing TNT solubility in the soil solutions. Results show that the extent of TNT sorption and desorption varies with the soil properties, and is mainly dependent on soil organic matter (SOM) content. Hysteretic desorption of TNT in all tested soils suggests irreversible sorption of TNT and indicates the need of using an extractant to increase the release of TNT in soil solutions. Urea significantly (p<0.0001) enhanced TNT extraction from all soils, by increasing its solubility at the solid/liquid interface. Soil organic matter content and urea application rates showed significant effects, whereas pH did not exert any significant effect on urea catalysis of TNT extraction from soil. The optimum urea application rates (125 or 350 mg kg(-1)) for maximizing TNT extraction were within the limits set by the agronomic fertilizer-N rates used for major agricultural crops. The data obtained from this batch study will facilitate the optimization of a chemically-catalyzed phytoremediation model for cleaning up TNT-contaminated soils.
Mobility of polyaromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in soil in the presence of carbon nanotubes.	Being a potential risk to the environment, a fate study of carbon nanotube (CNT) in the environment is urgently needed. A study of CNT impacts on the bioavailability of other conventional contaminants in a terrestrial system is particularly rare. This study explored PAH leaching behaviors in the presence of CNTs with column leaching tests. Four PAHs (Naphthalene, fluorene, phenanthrene, and pyrene), three CNTs (f-SWNTs, MWNTs, f-MWNTs), and a sandy loam soil were involved in this study. We found that at a concentration of 5mg/g, CNTs could significantly retain PAHs in soil. Such a strong PAH retention was caused by low mobilities of CNTs and their strong PAH sorption capacities. This study illustrated that the properties of both sorbents (e.g. available surface area and micropore volume) and sorbates (e.g. hydrophobicity and molecular volume) influenced the mobility of PAHs in soil. 
Remediation of highly contaminated soils from an industrial site by employing a combined treatment with exogeneous humic substances and oxidative biomimetic catalysis.	Remediation of two polluted soils from a northern Italian industrial site heavily contaminated with organic contaminants was attempted here by subjecting soils first to addition with an exogenous humic acid (HA), and, then, to an oxidation reaction catalyzed by a water-soluble iron-porphyrin (FeP). An expected decrease of detectable organic pollutants (>50%) was already observed when soils were treated only with the H2O2 oxidant. This reduction was substantially enhanced when oxidation was catalyzed by iron-porphyrin (FeP+H2O2) and the largest effect was observed for the most highly polluted soil. Even more significant was the decrease in detectable pollutants (70-90%) when soils were first amended with HA and then subjected to the FeP+H2O2 treatment. This reduction in extractable pollutants after the combined HA+FeP+H2O2 treatment was due to formation of covalent CC and COC bonds between soil contaminants and amended humic molecules. Moreover, the concomitant detection of condensation products in soil extracts following FeP addition confirmed the occurrence of free-radical coupling reactions catalyzed by FeP. These findings indicate that a combined technique based on the action of both humic matter and a metal-porhyrin catalyst, may become useful to quantitatively reduce the toxicity of heavily contaminated soils and prevent the environmental transport of pollutants. 
Immobilization of heavy metals on pillared montmorillonite with a grafted chelate ligand.	The objective of this work was the development of an efficient adsorbent for irreversible immobilization of heavy metals in contaminated soils. The adsorbent was prepared by pillaring of montmorillonite with silica followed by grafting of a chelate ligand on its surface. Obtained adsorbent was mesoporous with high content of adsorption sites. Its structure was studied by BET adsorption of N2, dynamic light scattering, and scanning electron microscopy. The adsorption capacity of the organoclay was measured by its mixing with contaminated kaolin and soil samples and by analysis of heavy metal contents in leachate. Deionized water and 50% acetic acid were used for leaching of metals from the samples. As it was demonstrated by the experiments, the adsorbent was efficient in immobilization of heavy metals not only in neutral aqueous media but also in the presence of weak acid. As a result, the adsorbent can be used for reduction of heavy metal leaching from contaminated sites.
Production of bioemulsifiers by Amycolatopsis tucumanensis DSM 45259 and their potential application in remediation technologies for soils contaminated with hexavalent chromium.	In recent years, increasing interest has been shown in the use of bioemulsifiers as washing agents that can enhance desorption of soil-bound metals. However, high production costs derived from the use of expensive substrates for formulation of the fermentation media represent the main challenge for full, large-scale implementation of bioemulsifiers. This work reports on a first study of bioemulsifier production by the actinobacterium Amycolatopsis tucumanensis DSM 45259 using different carbon and nitrogen sources. Preliminary results on the potential use of these compounds as washing agents for soils contaminated with Cu(II) and Cr(VI) are also presented. The best specific production was detected using glycerol and urea as carbon and nitrogen substrates, respectively. However, with all of the substrates used during the batch assay, the bioemulsifiers showed high levels of stability at extreme conditions of pH, temperature, and salt concentration. Under the current assay conditions, the bioemulsifiers were not effective in removing Cu(II) from soil. However, they were able to mediate Cr(VI) recovery, with the removal percentage doubled compared to that seen when using deionized water. These findings appear promising for the development of remediation technologies for hexavalent chromium compounds based upon direct use of these microbial emulsifiers. 
Sorption kinetics of diuron on volcanic ash derived soils.	Diuron sorption kinetic was studied in Andisols, Inceptisol and Ultisols soils in view of their distinctive physical and chemical properties: acidic pH and variable surface charge. Two types of kinetic models were used to fit the experimental dates: those that allow to establish principal kinetic parameters and modeling of sorption process (pseudo-first-order, pseudo-second-order), and some ones frequently used to describe solute transport mechanisms of organic compounds on different sorbents intended for remediation purposes (Elovich equation, intraparticle diffusion, Boyd, and two-site nonequilibrium models). The best fit was obtained with the pseudo-second-order model. The rate constant and the initial rate constant values obtained through this model demonstrated the behavior of Diuron in each soil, in Andisols were observed the highest values for both parameters. The application of the models to describe solute transport mechanisms allowed establishing that in all soils the mass transfer controls the sorption kinetic across the boundary layer and intraparticle diffusion into macropores and micropores. The slowest sorption rate was observed on Ultisols, behavior which must be taken into account when the leaching potential of Diuron is considered. 
Long-term assessment of the environmental fate of heavy metals in agricultural soil after cessation of organic waste treatments.	The current study examined the anthropogenic accumulation and natural decrease in metal concentrations in agricultural soils following organic waste application. Three common organic wastes, including municipal sewage sludge, alcohol fermentation processing sludge, and pig manure compost (PMC), were applied annually to an agricultural soil under field conditions over 7 years (1994-2000) at a rate of 12.5, 25, and 50 ton ha(-1) year(-1) and the soil accumulation of three metals of concern (Cu, Pb, and Zn) was monitored. Subsequently, organic waste amendments ceased and the experimental plots were managed using conventional fertilization for another 10 years (2001-2010) and the natural decrease in metal concentrations monitored. Although Cu and Zn concentrations in all experimental plots did not exceed the relevant guideline values (150 mg kg(-1) for Cu and 300 mg kg(-1) for Zn), significant increases in metal concentrations were observed from cumulative application of organic wastes over 7 years. For instance, PMC treatment resulted in an increase in Cu and Zn from 9.8 and 72 mg kg(-1) to 108.2 and 214.3 mg kg(-1), respectively. In addition, the natural decrease in Cu and Zn was not significant as soils amended with PMC showed only a 16 and 19 % decline in Cu and Zn concentrations, respectively, even 10 years after amendment ceased. This research suggested that more attention must be paid during production of organic waste-based amendments and at the application stage.
Arsenite binding to natural organic matter: spectroscopic evidence for ligand exchange and ternary complex formation.	The speciation of As in wetlands is often controlled by natural organic matter (NOM), which can form strong complexes with Fe(III). Here, we elucidated the molecular-scale interaction of arsenite (As(III)) with Fe(III)-NOM complexes under reducing conditions. We reacted peat (40-250 μm size fraction, 1.0 g Fe/kg) with 0-15 g Fe/kg at pH <2, removed nonreacted Fe, and subsequently equilibrated the Fe(III) complexes formed with 900 mg As/kg peat at pH 7.0, 8.4, and 8.8. The solid-phase speciation of Fe and As was studied by electron paramagnetic resonance (Fe) and X-ray absorption spectroscopy (As, Fe). Our results show that the majority of Fe in the peat was present as mononuclear Fe(III) species (RFe-C = 2.82-2.88 Å), probably accompanied by small Fe(III) clusters of low nuclearity (RFe-Fe = 3.25-3.46 Å) at high pH and elevated Fe contents. The amount of As(III) retained by the original peat was 161 mg As/kg, which increased by up to 250% at pH 8.8 and an Fe loading of 7.3 g/kg. With increasing Fe content of peat, As(III) increasingly formed bidentate mononuclear (RAs-Fe = 2.88-2.94 Å) and monodentate binuclear (RAs-Fe = 3.35-3.41 Å) complexes with Fe, thus yielding direct evidence of ternary complex formation. The ternary complex formation went along with a ligand exchange reaction between As(III) and hydroxylic/phenolic groups of the peat (RAs-C = 2.70-2.77 Å). Our findings thus provide spectroscopic evidence for two yet unconfirmed As(III)-NOM interaction mechanisms, which may play a vital role in the cycling of As in sub- and anoxic NOM-rich environments such as peatlands, peaty sediments, swamps, or rice paddies. 
Fluorine speciation and its distribution characteristics in selected agricultural soils of North China Plain]	The objectives of this study were to study fluorine speciation and its distribution characteristics in the cultivated soils of wheat-corn fields at the typical areas, the North China Plain. The fluorine contents in cultivated soils and profile soils were measured by consecutive extraction. The results showed that the soil total fluorine (T-F) content at typical areas in the North China Plain ranged from 338.31 mg x kg(-1) to 781.67 mg x kg(-1), with a mean of 430.46 mg x kg(-1). The soil fluorine speciation with the highest content was Residual-Fluorine (Res-F), with a mean of 402.73 mg x kg(-1). The average content of Water soluble Fluorine (Ws-F) was 14.39 mg x kg(-1). The result indicated that the cultivated soil in the study area was at a relatively high fluoride pollution level, which may be harmful to human health and the ecological environment. The contents of Organic Fluorine (Or-F) and Fe/Mn Oxide-Fluorine (Fe/ Mn-F) were also quite high, with a mean of 8.90 mg x kg(-1) and 4.10 mg x kg(-1), respectively. The exchangeable fluorine (Ex-F) only had a very small amount of 0.33 mg x kg(-1). Soil Ws-F was positively correlated with soil pH and CEC, while it was negatively correlated with the percentage of soil clay. The content of soil Fe/Mn-F was positively correlated with soil pH, CEC and the sand grain content percentage, while it was negatively correlated with the clay grain content percentage. The soil pH value had the most significant influence on the water soluble fluorine (Ws-F) and Fe/Mn Oxide-Fluorine (Fe/Mn-F), and the soil CEC had the most significant influence on the soil total fluorine (T-F) and residual-Fluorine (Res-F) by stepwise regression analysis. In the soil profiles, the T-F content appeared as peaks and valleys representing the change of the soil lithology in the vadose zone. The Ws-F in the soil profiles mainly changed in the depth of 0-100 cm near the surface soil and was little influenced by the soil lithology. But it was strongly influenced by the soil pH, and was positively correlated with the soil pH. This study can provide a scientific evidence for soil fluorine pollution, prevention and a theoretical basis for soil fluorine mobility and its influence on ecology and environment.
Influence of organochlorine pesticides in wastewater on the soil along the channel]	Nine profile soil samples and two sewage water samples were collected from Xiaodian sewage irrigation area in Taiyuan city, concentrations of organochlorine pesticides (OCPs) were determined by the gas chromatography coupled with electron capture detector (GC-ECD) to analyze the influence of the leakage of sewage water. The result shows that OCPs in sewage water were mainly composed of HCHs. Concentrations of DDTs and other organochlorine pesticides were very low or out of the detection limit. Concentrations of sigmaOCPs and HCHs in eight profiles near irrigation channels to some extend decreased with the increasing of the linear distance off the channel, which shows influences of the leakage of sewage water on the soil nearby. Concentrations of HCHs clearly decreased with the increasing of soil depth in most profile soils. For the horizontal direction, concentrations of HCHs also decreased with the increasing of the linear distance off the channel. The correlation between HCHs and TOC was positive, but no correlation between pH and HCHs was found.
Assessment of bioaccessibility of PAHs in microbial degradation process using solid phase micro extraction and solid phase extraction]	In order to demonstrate the variation of bioaccessibility of PAHIs in microbial degradation process, PAH contaminated coking plant soil was remediated using microbial agent, and the bioaccessibility of PAHs was assessed using solid phase micro extraction (SPME) and solid phase extraction (SPE), difference and correlation between PAH degradation and PAH bioaccessbility variation were also analyzed. Results showed that the dominant PAHs in the coking plant soil and its pore water were low molecular weight (LMW) PAHs, and 68.3% of total PAH was degraded by the microbial agent, which was mainly due to the LMW PAH degradation. Decrease of PAH concentration in soil pore water was also contributed by LMW PAHs, however, individual PAH reductions in soil pore water were lower than those PAH degradations. Fast desorption fraction was calculated from Tenax-TA extraction, and those fractions for LMW PAHs decreased, while those for high molecular weight (HMW) PAHs did not change significantly. Strong correlation between PAH degraded and PAH concentration in soil pore water or fast desorption fraction of Tenax-TA extraction was observed. The results above demonstrated that PAH concentration in soil pore water and fast desorption fraction of Tenax-TA extraction can be used to predict PAH degradation in soil, which provided some theoretical basis for the remediation of PAH contaminated soil from coking plant.
Adsorption and desorption characteristics of diphenylarsenicals in two contrasting soils.	Diphenylarsinic acid (DPAA) is formed during the leakage of aromatic arsenic chemical weapons in soils, is persistent in nature, and results in arsenic contamination in the field. The adsorption and desorption characteristics of DPAA were investigated in two typical Chinese soils, an Acrisol (a variable-charge soil) and a Phaeozem (a constant-charge soil). Their thermodynamics and some of the factors influencing them (i.e., initial pH value, ionic strength and phosphate) were also evaluated using the batch method in order to understand the environmental fate of DPAA in soils. The results indicate that Acrisol had a stronger adsorption capacity for DPAA than Phaeozem. Soil DPAA adsorption was a spontaneous and endothermic process and the amount of DPAA adsorbed was affected significantly by variation in soil pH and phosphate. In contrast, soil organic matter and ionic strength had no significant effect on adsorption. This suggests that DPAA adsorption may be due to specific adsorption on soil mineral surfaces. Therefore, monitoring the fate of DPAA in soils is recommended in areas contaminated by leakage from chemical weapons.
Evaluation of remediation process with soapberry derived saponin for removal of heavy metals from contaminated soils in Hai-Pu, Taiwan.	The use of a biodegradable natural plant-based surfactant extracted from soapberry is proposed for the remediation of Ni, Cr and Mn from industrial soil site in Hai-Pu, Taiwan. Batch experiments were performed under variation of fundamental factors (saponin concentration, pH, and incubation time) for metal remediation. Removal of Ni and Mn were increased with increasing saponin concentration (0.015-0.150 g/L), whereas the removal of Cr was increased upto 0.075 g/L saponin. The Ni, Cr and Mn were removed significantly (p < or = 0.05) at near to the neutral and slightly acidic (pH 5 to 8) conditions. Removal efficiency of Ni (99%) from the soil was found to be greater than that of Cr (73%) or Mn (25%) in the presence of saponin at a concentration of 0.150 g/L at pH 5. The removal percentage increased with incubation time where the removal of Ni was faster than that of Cr and Mn. The result indicates the feasibility of eco-friendly removal of heavy metal (Ni, Cr and Mn) from industrial soil by soil washing process in presence of plant derived saponin.
Assessing the mobility of lead, copper and cadmium in a calcareous soil of Port-au-Prince, Haiti.	The presence of heavy metals in the environment constitutes a potential source of both soil and groundwater pollution. This study has focused on the reactivity of lead (Pb), copper (Cu) and Cadmium (Cd) during their transfer in a calcareous soil of Port-au-Prince (Haiti). Kinetic, monometal and competitive batch tests were carried out at pH 6.0. Two simplified models including pseudo-first-order and pseudo-second-order were used to fit the experimental data from kinetics adsorption batch tests. A good fit of these data was found with pseudo-second-order kinetic model which indicates the applicability of this model to describe the adsorption rates of these metals on the soil. Monometal batch tests indicated that both Langmuir and Freundlich models allowed a good fit for experimental data. On the basis of the maximum adsorption capacity (qmax), the order affinity of Pb, Cu and Cd for the studied soil was Pb2+ > Cu2+ > Cd2+. Competitive sorption has proved that the competition between two or several cations on soils for the same active sites can decrease their qmax. These results show that, at high metal concentrations, Cd may pose more threat in soils and groundwater of Port-au-Prince than Pb and Cu. 
Effects of exogenous rare earth elements on phosphorus adsorption and desorption in different types of soils.	Phosphorus (P) is an important biogeochemical element and the environmental fate of P receives increasing attention. Through batch equilibration experiments, the adsorption and desorption of P in the absence and presence of exogeneous rare earth elements (REEs) were investigated in five types of agricultural soil samples collected from China. The results showed that the addition of different doses of REEs had influences on P adsorption processes in the soils, and there were differences in different soil types and different P concentrations of the P solutions. The amount of P adsorption tended to decline when the five types of soils were amended with low concentrations of REEs. The characteristics of P adsorption were more complicated when high concentrations of REEs were added to the different soils. Affected by the high concentrations of REEs, when the P concentration of the P solution added to soils was less than 20 mg L(-1), the rate of P adsorption tended to increase in all the five types of soils. However, when the P concentration of the P solution added to soil was greater than 30 mg L(-1), the rate of P adsorption tended to decrease. The Langmuir equation fitted P adsorption in all the five types of soils well. Compared with the control, when soil samples were amended with REEs, the P desorption rates of the five types of soils increased.
Hydrodechlorination of polychlorinated biphenyls in contaminated soil from an e-waste recycling area, using nanoscale zerovalent iron and Pd/Fe bimetallic nanoparticles.	Soil pollution by polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) arising from the crude disposal and recycling of electronic and electrical waste (e-waste) is a serious issue, and effective remediation technologies are urgently needed. Nanoscale zerovalent iron (nZVI) and bimetallic systems have been shown to promote successfully the destruction of halogenated organic compounds. In the present study, nZVI and Pd/Fe bimetallic nanoparticles synthesized by chemical deposition were used to remove 2,2',4,4',5,5'-hexachlorobiphenyl from deionized water, and then applied to PCBs contaminated soil collected from an e-waste recycling area. The results indicated that the hydrodechlorination of 2,2',4,4',5,5'-hexachlorobiphenyl by nZVI and Pd/Fe bimetallic nanoparticles followed pseudo-first-order kinetics and Pd loading was beneficial to the hydrodechlorination process. It was also found that the removal efficiencies of PCBs from soil achieved using Pd/Fe bimetallic nanoparticles were higher than that achieved using nZVI and that PCBs degradation might be affected by the soil properties. Finally, the potential challenges of nZVI application to in situ remediation were explored. 
Remediation of organochlorine pesticides (OCPs) contaminated site by successive methyl-β-cyclodextrin (MCD) and sunflower oil enhanced soil washing - Portulaca oleracea L. cultivation.	An innovative ex situ soil washing technology was developed in this study to remediate organochlorine pesticides (OCPs)-contaminated site. Elevated temperature (50 °C) combined with ultrasonication (35 kHz, 30 min) at 25 g L(-1) methyl-β-cyclodextrin and 100 mL L(-1) sunflower oil were effective in extracting OCPs from the soil. After four successive washing cycles, the removal efficiency for total OCPs, DDTs, endosulfans, 1,2,3,4,5,6-hexachlorocyclohexanes, heptachlors, and chlordanes were all about 99%. The 4th washed soil with 3 months cultivation of Portulaca oleracea L. and nutrient addition significantly increase (p<0.05) the number, biomass carbon, nitrogen, and functioning diversity of soil microorganisms. This implied that the microbiological functioning of the soil was at least partially restored. This combined cleanup strategy proved to be effective and environmental friendly.
Bioremediation of Cd by microbially induced calcite precipitation.	Contamination by Cd is a significant environmental problem. Therefore, we examined Cd removal from an environmental perspective. Ureolysis-driven calcium carbonate precipitation has been proposed for use in geotechnical engineering for soil remediation applications. In this study, 55 calcite-forming bacterial strains were newly isolated from various environments. Biomineralization of Cd by calcite-forming bacteria was investigated in laboratory-scale experiments. A simple method was developed to determine the effectiveness of microbially induced calcite precipitation (MICP). Using this method, we determined the effectiveness of biomineralization for retarding the flow of crystal violet through a 25-mL column. When the selected bacteria were analyzed using an inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometer, high removal rates (99.95%) of Cd were observed following incubation for 48 h. Samples of solids that formed in the reaction vessels were examined using a scanning electron microscope. The CdCO3 compounds primarily showed a spherical shape. The results of this study demonstrate that MICP-based sequestration of soluble heavy metals via coprecipitation with calcite may be useful for toxic heavy metal bioremediation.
An alternative approach for the use of water solubility of nonionic pesticides in the modeling of the soil sorption coefficients.	The collection of data to study the damage caused by pesticides to the environment and its ecosystems is slowly acquired and costly. Large incentives have been established to encourage research projects aimed at building mathematical models for predicting physical, chemical or biological properties of environmental interest. The organic carbon normalized soil sorption coefficient (K(oc)) is an important physicochemical property used in environmental risk assessments for compounds released into the environment. Many models for predicting logK(oc) that have used the parameters logP or logS as descriptors have been published in recent decades. The strong correlation between these properties (logP and logS) prevents them from being used together in multiple linear regressions. Because the sorption of a chemical compound in soil depends on both its water solubility and its water/organic matter partitioning, we assume that models capable of combining these two properties can generate more realistic results. Therefore, the objective of this study was to propose an alternative approach for modeling logK(oc), using a simple descriptor of solubility, here designated as the logarithm of solubility corrected by octanol/water partitioning (logS(P)). Thus, different models were built with this descriptor and with the conventional descriptors logP and logS, alone or associated with other explanatory variables representing easy-to-interpret physicochemical properties. The obtained models were validated according to current recommendations in the literature, and they were compared with other previously published models. The results showed that the use of logS(p) instead of conventional descriptors led to simple models with greater statistical quality and predictive power than other more complex models found in the literature. Therefore, logS(P) can be a good alternative to consider for the modeling of logK(oc) and other properties that relate to both solubility and water/organic matter partitioning.
Potential impact of soil microbial heterogeneity on the persistence of hydrocarbons in contaminated subsurface soils.	In situ bioremediation is potentially a cost effective treatment strategy for subsurface soils contaminated with petroleum hydrocarbons, however, limited information is available regarding the impact of soil spatial heterogeneity on bioremediation efficacy. In this study, we assessed issues associated with hydrocarbon biodegradation and soil spatial heterogeneity (samples designated as FTF 1, 5 and 8) from a site in which in situ bioremediation was proposed for hydrocarbon removal. Test pit activities showed similarities in FTF soil profiles with elevated hydrocarbon concentrations detected in all soils at 2 m below ground surface. However, PCR-DGGE-based cluster analysis showed that the bacterial community in FTF 5 (at 2 m) was substantially different (53% dissimilar) and 2-3 fold more diverse than communities in FTF 1 and 8 (with 80% similarity). When hydrocarbon degrading potential was assessed, differences were observed in the extent of (14)C-benzene mineralisation under aerobic conditions with FTF 5 exhibiting the highest hydrocarbon removal potential compared to FTF 1 and 8. Further analysis indicated that the FTF 5 microbial community was substantially different from other FTF samples and dominated by putative hydrocarbon degraders belonging to Pseudomonads, Xanthomonads and Enterobacteria. However, hydrocarbon removal in FTF 5 under anaerobic conditions with nitrate and sulphate electron acceptors was limited suggesting that aerobic conditions were crucial for hydrocarbon removal. This study highlights the importance of assessing available microbial capacity prior to bioremediation and shows that the site's spatial heterogeneity can adversely affect the success of in situ bioremediation unless area-specific optimizations are performed. 
Evaluation of pyrene sorption-desorption on tropical soils.	Sorption-desorption processes control soil-pollutant interactions. These processes determine the extent of pyrene transport in soils. Understanding sorption characteristics of pyrene is necessary in ascertaining its fate in soil. Laboratory batch experiments were conducted to study the sorptions-desorption of pyrene on eight soils from varying tropical agro-ecological zones (AEZs). The results showed that pyrene sorptions equilibria were attained within 720 min. Solution pH had a reciprocal effect on pyrene sorptions. Sorption was exothermic and increased with pyrene concentration in solution. The quantities of pyrene sorbed by each soil as well as the hysteresis were proportional to the percentage organic matter, and to some degree, the clay mineralogy. Sorption isotherms showed distributed reactivity involving several linear and non-linear isotherms. The present investigation showed that pyrene is likely to be more available to biota and reach the aquifer faster in low organic matter soils than those with relatively higher organic matter and more so in warmer climes. 
Assessment of soil contamination by (210)Po and (210)Pb around heavy oil and natural gas fired power plants.	Soil contamination by (210)Pb and (210)Po around heavy oil and natural gas power plants has been investigated; fly and bottom ash containing enhanced levels of (210)Pb and (210)Po were found to be the main source of surface soil contamination. The results showed that (210)Pb and (210)Po in fly-ash (economizer, superheater) is highly enriched with (210)Pb and (210)Po, while bottom-ash (boiler) is depleted. The highest (210)Pb and (210)Po activity concentrations were found to be in economizer ash, whereas the lowest activity concentration was in the recirculator ash. On the other hand, (210)Pb and (210)Po activity concentrations in soil samples were found to be higher inside the plant site area than those samples collected from surrounding areas. The highest levels were found in the vicinity of Mhardeh and Tishreen power plants; both plants are operated by heavy oil and natural fuels, while the lowest values were found to be in those samples collected from Nasrieh power plant, which is only operated by one type of fuel, viz. natural gas. In addition, the levels of surface soil contamination have decreased as the distance from the power plant site center increased. 
Chlorophyll a fluorescence in evaluation of the effect of heavy metal soil contamination on perennial grasses.	Chlorophyll a fluorescence gives information about the plant physiological status due to its coupling to the photosynthetic electron transfer chain and to the further biochemical processes. Environmental stresses, which acts synergistically, disturbs the photosynthesis. The OJIP test, elaborated by Strasser and co-workers, enables comparison of the physiological status of plants grown on polluted vs. control areas. The paper shows that the Chl a measurements are very useful tool in evaluating of heavy metal ions influence on perennial grasses, tested as potential phytoremediators. Among 5 cultivars tested, the highest concentration of Cd and Zn ions, not associated with the yield reduction, was detected in the biomass of tall fescue cv. Rahela. Chl a fluorescence interpreted as double normalized curves pointed out Rahela as the outstanding cultivar under the HM ions stress. 
Assessing biochar's ability to reduce bioavailability of aminocyclopyrachlor in soils.	Aminocyclopyrachlor is a pyrimidine carboxylic acid herbicide used to control broadleaf weeds and brush. Amending soil with activated charcoal is recommended to prevent off-site transport of aminocyclopyrachlor and non-target plant damage. We used the batch-equilibrium method to determine the concentration of aminocyclopyrachlor in a pseudo-steady state with biochar, soil, and biochar-soil systems (<10% biochar by weight). We observed that aminocyclopyrachlor is mobile in soils. Soil incorporation of activated charcoal removed nearly all of the aqueous aminocyclopyrachlor thereby limiting its bioavailability to non-target flora. On the other hand, biochars were less effective than activated charcoal. Biochar produced from olive mill waste feedstock was the most effective biochar that we assessed for reducing the aqueous herbicide concentration. Although these biochars reduced the aminocyclopyrachlor concentration, they would not be practical remediation media due to the extraordinarily high application rates required to reduce the concentration by 50% (2.13 × 10(5) kg ha(-1)-7.27 × 10(5) kg ha(-1)). 
Steam-treatment-based soil remediation promotes heat-tolerant, potentially pathogenic microbiota.	We investigated microbiota in surface and subsurface soil from a site, above steam-treated deep sub-soil originally contaminated with chlorinated solvents. During the steam treatment, the surface soil reached temperatures c. 30 degrees C higher than the temperature in untreated soil; whereas the subsurface soil, at a depth of about 40 cm, reached a temperature c. 45 degrees C higher than untreated soil. The soil was examined prior to, during, and 6, 12, 14, 20 and 31 months after treatment. Numbers of bacteria cultivable at 42 degrees C increased significantly in subsurface soil. Similarly, substrate utilization in ECOLOG plates, incubated at 42 degrees C, increased from less than 10% of available carbon sources in the untreated soil to more than 60% of the available carbon sources in the steam-treated soil. Aspergillus fumigatus was quantified as an example ofheat-tolerant fungi normally found in compost. These organisms are rarely detected in Danish soils but high numbers (c. 10(5) hyphal forming units g(-1)) occurred in the treated soil up to 31 months after the steam-treatment. We conclude that steam-treatment leads to changes of the microbial communities. Some changes are temporary while others can last for years after termination of the steam-treatment; reflecting different strategies that soil microorganisms follow.
Experimental investigation on influence of foam mobility on polychlorinated biphenyl removal in foam flushing.	Foam flushing is an in situ soil remediation technology based on the traditional surfactant flushing method. The mobility control by introduction of foam is helpful in improving this technology. In this study, foam flushing ofpolychlorinatedbiphenyl (PCB)-contaminated media was performed to evaluate the effect of foam mobility on PCB removal. The conductivity and sweep efficiency (SE) of foam with different Triton X-100 concentrations and gas contents through two sands (with permeability of 15 darcy and 120 darcy) were tested. The results indicate that the presence of foam can not only reduce the mobility and increase the SE values of washing agent in single media, but can also reduce the discrepancy of fluid mobility and SE values between different sands, primarily due to the additional capillary resistance arising from the Jamin effect. The increases of PCB removal by foam agreed with the increases of SE values: foam (5.00 g/L) flushing increased the PCB removal from 79.4% by solution flushing to 85.1% for coarse sand, and increased the value from 64.2% to 79.1% for fine sand. When surfactant concentration and gas-liquid ratio vary, the variation of PCB removal showed the same trend with the change of SE, and an opposite trend with the change of foam mobility. High concentration of surfactant (5.00 g/L) and a foam quality of 97.0% are most favourable for the reduction of foam mobility. On the other hand, the negative effect of foam caused by the reduction of effective cross-section will reduce the foam remediation efficiency, especially under a low Triton X-100 concentration condition.
The effect of ammonium chloride and urea application on soil bacterial communities closely related to the reductive transformation of pentachlorophenol.	Pentachlorophenol (PCP) is widely distributed in the soil, and nitrogen fertilizer is extensively used in agricultural production. However, studies on the fate of organic contaminants as affected by nitrogen fertilizer application have been rare and superficial. The present study aimed to examine the effect of ammonium chloride (NH4Cl) and urea (CO(NH2)2) application on the reductive transformation of PCP in a paddy soil. The study showed that the addition of low concentrations of NH4Cl/CO(NH2)2 enhanced the transformation of PCP, while the addition of high concentrations of NH4Cl/CO(NH2)2 had the opposite effect. The variations in the abundance of soil microbes in response to NH4Cl/CO(NH2)2 addition showed that both NH4Cl and CO(NH2)2 had inhibitory effects on the growth of dissimilatory iron-reducing bacteria (DIRB) of the genus Comamonas. In contrast, for the genus Shewanella, low concentrations of NH4Cl inhibited growth, and high concentrations of NH4Cl enhanced growth, whereas all concentrations of CO(NH2)2 showed enhancement effects. In addition, consistent patterns of variation were found between the abundances of dechlorinating bacteria in the genus Dehalobacter and PCP transformation rates under NH4Cl/CO(NH2)2 addition. In conclusion, nitrogen application produced variations in the structure of the soil microbial community, especially in the abundance of dissimilatory iron-reducing bacteria and dechlorinating bacteria, which, in turn, affected PCP dechlorination. 
Screening of plant growth-promoting traits in arsenic-resistant bacteria isolated from agricultural soil and their potential implication for arsenic bioremediation.	Twelve arsenic (As)-resistant bacteria (minimum inhibitory concentration ranging from 10 to 30mM and 150 to 320mM for As(III) and As(V), respectively) were isolated from the agricultural soil of the Chianan Plain in southwestern Taiwan using enrichment techniques. Eight isolates capable of oxidizing As(III) (rate of oxidation from 0.029 to 0.059μMh(-1) 10(-9) cell) and exhibiting As(III)-oxidase enzyme activity belong to Pseudomonas, Acinetobacter, Klebsiella and Comamonas genera, whereas four isolates that did not show As(III)-oxidizing activity belong to Geobacillus, Bacillus, Paenibacillus, and Enterobacter genera. Assessment of the parameters of plant growth promotion revealed that Pseudomonas sp. ASR1, ASR2 and ASR3, Geobacillus sp. ASR4, Bacillus sp. ASR5, Paenibacillus sp. ASR6, Enterobacter sp. ASR10 and Comamonas sp. ASR11, and ASR12 possessed some or all of the studied plant growth-promoting traits, including phosphate-solubilization, siderophore, IAA-like molecules and ACC deaminase production. In addition, the ability of As-resistant isolates to grow over wide ranges of pH and temperatures signify their potential application for sustainable bioremediation of As in the environment. 
A three-year experiment confirms continuous immobilization of cadmium and lead in contaminated paddy field with biochar amendment.	Heavy metal contamination in croplands has been a serious concern because of its high health risk through soil-food chain transfer. A field experiment was conducted in 2010-2012 in a contaminated rice paddy in southern China to determine if bioavailability of soil Cd and Pb could be reduced while grain yield was sustained over 3 years after a single soil amendment of wheat straw biochar. Contaminated biochar particles were separated from the biochar amended soil and microscopically analyzed to help determine where, and how, metals were immobilized with biochar. Biochar soil amendment (BSA) consistently and significantly increased soil pH, total organic carbon and decreased soil extractable Cd and Pb over the 3 year period. While rice plant tissues' Cd content was significantly reduced, depending on biochar application rate, reduction in plant Pb concentration was found only in root tissue. Analysis of the fresh and contaminated biochar particles indicated that Cd and Pb had probably been bonded with the mineral phases of Al, Fe and P on and around and inside the contaminated biochar particle. Immobilization of the Pb and Cd also occurred to cation exchange on the porous carbon structure. 
Can biochar and phytoextractors be jointly used for cadmium remediation?	Phytoremediation of soils contaminated with cadmium was tested after liming (CaO) or biochar addition, using red amaranth (Amaranthus tricolor L.) as test plant species. Two biochars with contrasting characteristics were prepared from two feedstocks and added to the soil at a rate of 3% (w:w): Eucalyptus pyrolysed at 600°C (EB) and poultry litter at 400°C (PLB). Liming was carried out in two treatments (CaO1) and (CaO2) to the same pH as the treatments EB and PLB respectively. Total plant mass increased in soils amended with PLB and with a mixture of PLB and EB; however this was not sufficient to increase the efficiency of phytoextraction. Bioavailable and mobile fractions of Cd diminished after liming or biochar addition. Our study infers that, both the amount of Cd immobilized and the main mechanism responsible for this immobilization varies according to biochar properties. 
Mathematical simulation of chlorinated ethene concentration rebound after in situ chemical oxidation.	Permanganates have been used for in situ chemical oxidation (ISCO) projects since the 1990s. Unfortunately, there has been very little research performed on the phenomenon of concentration rebound after ISCO. Most research on ISCO has focused on demonstrating effectiveness, estimating kinetics, or quantifying the effects of reaction products. Only one study has demonstrated that a correlation between concentration rebound and hydrogeological parameters exists. Our study uses a numerical solution to an advection-dispersion-reaction equation to quantify a correlation between the rate of concentration rebound and molecular diffusivity in pure water. It accomplishes this by simulating a variety of sites contaminated with chlorinated ethenes that also had an ISCO with permanganate. Each simulation included advection, two-dimensional dispersion, oxidation, concentration rebound, natural oxidant demand, and retardation. Five sites were suitable for simulation and eight cells were delineated within the five sites. These cells allowed for a variety of soils, contaminants, injection methods (i.e. frequency, depth, mass of oxidant, duration, etc…), time scales, spatial scales, and hydrogeological variables to be examined. A robust correlation (R(2) = 0.92) was identified with a regression analysis between the molecular diffusion coefficient in pure water and the rate of concentration rebound. 
