Primary localised pleural neurofibroma: expanding the spectrum of spindle cell tumours of the pleura.	Primary localised pleural neoplasms are a rare group of thoracic tumours, with solitary fibrous tumour representing the most frequently encountered entity. Two cases of localised pleural neurofibromas involving the pleura are described.
Contralateral recurrence of a malignant solitary fibrous tumor of the pleura.	We present an unusual case of a contralateral recurrence of malignant solitary fibrous tumor of the pleura (SFTP) nine years after a complete resection. Recurrence of malignant SFTP has already been described, but is usually localized. In our case the patient underwent surgical resection for a malignant SFTP of the left upper lobe in 2000. Nine years later computed tomography (CT)-scans showed lesions that were suspicious of tumor recurrence in the right lung. Thoracoscopy, wedge-resections and pathological findings revealed four nodules of a malignant SFTP of the right middle and lower lobe, histopathologically identical to the tumor, which had been resected nine years ago. A coincidental mucinous bronchioloalveolar carcinoma of the left lower lobe was resected by thoracotomy. To our knowledge this is the first report of contralateral recurrence of a malignant SFTP years after complete resection in the literature. The possibility of a new primary tumor on the right with local metastasis could not be excluded in the clinical and histopathological examinations. Therefore, contralateral recurrence of malignant SFTP should be considered in the postoperative follow-up even years after complete resection.
Localized malignant lymphohistiocytoid pleural mesothelioma.	We report a case of a 42-year-old man with a right pleural mesothelioma. This neoplasm has 3 rare features. Firstly, it was a localized form: suspected by imaging, visualized by video-assisted thoracoscopy, at the time of the curative-thoracotomy and confirmed by the pathological analysis. The second characteristic is its histological type: "malignant lymphohistiocytoid mesothelioma". This rare subtype has been reported in only 4 papers. Third, after pleuro-pneumonectomy, our patient is alive after 6 years and 5 months postoperatively without any sign of recurrence. Only one case with a long follow-up has been reported but with recurrence at 5 years postoperatively.
Solitary fibrous tumors of the pleura.	Solitary fibrous tumor of the pleura (SFTP) is a rare neoplasm of the pleura. Although an increasing number of case series have been reported in recent years, so far clinical behavior is still unpredictable. The following article presents a detailed review of the recent larger series of SFTP with particular attention to the clinical presentation, pathologic characteristics and surgical features in order to define more precisely the long-term outcome after treatment of this rare entity.
