Percutaneous ultrasound-guided chemical parathyroid ablation for treatment of primary hyperparathyroidism in dogs.	To evaluate the efficacy, feasibility, and safety of ultrasound-guided chemical ablation of parathyroid masses in dogs with primary hyperparathyroidism.
Solvent action of sodium hypochlorite on bovine pulp and physico-chemical properties of resulting liquid.	The solvent effect of 4 concentrations of sodium hypochlorite (0.5, 1.0, 2.5, and 5.0%) on bovine pulp tissue and the level of residual chlorine, pH and surface tension before and after dissolution were studied in vitro. A fragment of bovine pulp was submersed in sodium hypochlorite that circulated in an apparatus with a peristaltic pump and Luer Lok syringe. The higher the concentration of sodium hypochlorite the faster the dissolution of the pulp tissue. All concentrations of sodium hypochlorite reduced the pH and the surface tension and the higher concentrations of the solution had the least consumption of chlorine during tissue dissolution. Thus this study indicated that residual chlorine was directly proportional to concentration in the process of pulp tissue dissolution and that there was residual chlorine at all concentrations used.
Acute nitrobenzene poisoning with severe associated methemoglobinemia: identification in whole blood by GC-FID and GC-MS.	A rare fatal case of self-poisoning with nitrobenzene following oral ingestion is reported. On presentation to the hospital, severe methemoglobinemia (70%) was observed in an 82-year-old male who had ingested 250 mL of an unknown substance in the previous 24 h. Methylene blue and exchange transfusion were the therapeutic methods applied in the treatment of the methemoglobinemia. Forty-eight hours after ingestion, a blood sample was collected in ICU and sent to our laboratory. We detected that the blood contained 3.2 microg/mL of nitrobenzene. The determination of nitrobenzene was performed using the combination of GC-FID for screening analysis and quantitation and GC-MS for confirmation of the obtained results.
Absence of carcinogenic activity in Fischer rats and B6C3F1 mice following 103-week inhalation exposures to toluene.	Toluene, methylbenzene, is used to back-blend gasoline, as a chemical intermediate, and as a solvent; more than 7 million tonnes are produced each year in the United States. Following 14-15-week toxicity studies to estimate appropriate exposure concentrations for the carcinogenesis bioassays, toxicology and carcinogenesis studies of toluene (>99% pure) were conducted by whole-body inhalation exposures of F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice of each sex for 15 months or two years. Toluene levels were 0 (chamber controls), 600, and 1,200 ppm for rats and 0, 120, 600, and 1200 ppm for mice. Exposures were 6.5 hr/day 5 days/wk. Genetic toxicology studies using Salmonella typhimurium, mouse L5178Y lymphoma cells, and Chinese hamster ovary cells were negative. No chemically related neoplasm was found in male rats, and one nasal, two kidney, and two forestomach neoplasms observed in female rats were considered not to be associated with the toluene exposure. For mice, no biologically important increase was observed for any nonneoplastic or neoplastic lesion. Studies by others had reported carcinogenicity of toluene, especially for total malignant tumors.
Evaluation of the dermal bioavailability of aqueous xylene in F344 rats and human volunteers.	Xylene is a clear, colorless liquid used as a solvent in the printing, rubber, and leather industries and is commonly found in paint thinners, paints, varnishes, and adhesives. Although humans are most likely to be exposed to xylene via inhalation, xylene is also found in well and surface water. Therefore, an assessment of the dermal contribution to total xylene uptake is useful for understanding human exposures. To evaluate the significance of these exposures, the dermal absorption of o-xylene was assessed in F344 male rats and human volunteers using a combination of real-time exhaled breath analysis and physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) modeling. Animals were exposed to o-xylene dermally. Immediately following the initiation of exposure, individual animals were placed in a glass off-gassing chamber and exhaled breath was monitored. Human volunteers participating in the study placed both legs into a stainless steel hydrotherapy tub containing an initial concentration of approximately 500 microg/L o-xylene. Exhaled breath was continually analyzed from each volunteer before, during, and after exposure to track absorption and subsequent elimination of the compound in real time. In both animal and human studies, a PBPK model was used to estimate the dermal permeability coefficient (K(p)) to describe each set of exhaled breath data. Rat skin was found to be approximately 12 times more permeable to aqueous o-xylene than human skin. The estimated human and rat aqueous o-xylene K(p) values were 0.005 +/- 0.001 cm/h and 0.058 +/- 0.009 cm/h, respectively.
Reliability of a semi-quantitative method for dermal exposure assessment (DREAM).	Valid and reliable semi-quantitative dermal exposure assessment methods for epidemiological research and for occupational hygiene practice, applicable for different chemical agents, are practically nonexistent. The aim of this study was to assess the reliability of a recently developed semi-quantitative dermal exposure assessment method (DREAM) by (i) studying inter-observer agreement, (ii) assessing the effect of individual observers on dermal exposure estimates for different tasks, and (iii) comparing inter-observer agreement for ranking of body parts according to their exposure level. Four studies were performed in which a total of 29 observers (mainly occupational hygienists) were asked to fill in DREAM while performing side-by-side observations for different tasks, comprising dermal exposures to liquids, solids, and vapors. Intra-class correlation coefficients ranged from 0.68 to 0.87 for total dermal exposure estimates, indicating good to excellent inter-observer agreement. The effects of individual observers on task estimates were estimated using a linear mixed effect model with logged DREAM estimates as explanatory variable; "task", "company/department", and the interaction of "task" and "company/department" as fixed effects; and "observer" as a random effect. Geometric mean (GM) dermal exposure estimates for different tasks were estimated by taking the exponent of the predicted betas for the tasks. By taking the exponent of the predicted observer's intercept (exp(omega i)), a multiplier (M(O)) was estimated for each observer. The effects of individual observers on task estimates were relatively small, as the maximum predicted mean observers' multiplier was only a factor 2, while predicted GMs of dermal exposure estimates for tasks ranged from 0 to 1226, and none of the predicted individual observers' multipliers differed significantly from 1 (t-test alpha = 0.05). Inter-observer agreement for ranking of dermal exposure of nine body parts was moderate to good, as median values of Spearman correlation coefficients for pairs of observers ranged from 0.29 to 0.93. DREAM provides reproducible results for a broad range of tasks with dermal exposures to liquids, solids, as well as vapors. DREAM appears to offer a useful advance for estimations of dermal exposure both for epidemiological research and for occupational hygiene practice.
Human respiratory uptake of chloroform and haloketones during showering.	Inhalation is an important exposure route for volatile water contaminants, including disinfection by-products (DBPs). A controlled human study was conducted on six subjects to determine the respiratory uptake of haloketones (HKs) and chloroform, a reference compound, during showering. Breath and air concentrations of the DBPs were measured using gas chromatography and electron capture detector during and following the inhalation exposures. A lower percentage of the HKs (10%) is released from shower water to air than that of chloroform (56%) under the experiment conditions due to the lower volatility of the HKs. Breath concentrations of the DBPs were elevated during the inhalation exposure, while breath concentrations decreased rapidly after the exposure. Approximately 85-90% of the inhaled HKs were absorbed, whereas only 70% of the inhaled chloroform was absorbed for the experiment conditions used. The respiratory uptake of the DBPs was estimated using a linear one-compartment model coupled with a plug flow stream model for the shower system. The internal dose of chloroform normalized to its water concentration was approximately four times that of the HKs after a 30-min inhalation exposure. Approximately 0.3-0.4% of the absorbed HKs and 2-9% of the absorbed chloroform were expired through lung excretion after the 30-min exposure. The inhalation exposure from a typical 10-15 min shower contributes significantly to the total dose for chloroform in chlorinated drinking water but only to a moderate extent for HKs.
Cytotoxicity evaluation of gutta-percha solvents: Chloroform and GP-Solvent (limonene).	The purpose of this study was to compare the cytotoxicity of 2 gutta-percha solvents, chloroform and GP-Solvent, on cell line L929.
A proposed methodology for selecting a trichloroethylene inhalation unit risk value for use in risk assessment.	U.S. EPA's 2001 draft assessment of trichloroethylene (TCE) toxicity reviews the existing human and animal data on TCE carcinogenicity and proposes a 20-fold range of cancer potency values for use in risk assessment. Each value in the range is derived from a different source of data, either animal bioassays or epidemiology studies, and thus the range does not represent a distribution which can be characterized by statistical parameters such as a mean or 95% confidence interval. The U.S. EPA suggests users choose a single slope factor from among those it describes as appropriate for the population of interest and mode of exposure, but little guidance is given for making this choice. We propose an approach for determining the most scientifically defensible carcinogenic inhalation unit risk estimate from the range of slope factors developed by U.S. EPA, one that relies on accepted principles for evaluating scientific studies. Based on these considerations, we identify the most appropriate interim unit risk for low-level inhalation exposure as 9 x 10(-7) per microg/m(3). This approach may have fairly broad utility if U.S. EPA elects to use a similar approach in future assessments of other chemicals.
Posttransplant symptomatic lymphocele treatment with percutaneous drainage and ethanol sclerosis: long-term follow-up.	Lymphocele following kidney transplantation is a well-known complication. We present here the long-term results of percutaneous drainage and ethanol sclerosis in posttransplant lymphoceles.
Development and characterization of film forming polymeric solutions for skin drug delivery.	Film forming polymeric solutions as a novel approach for skin drug delivery were developed and characterized concerning their mechanical properties and water vapor permeability. They were developed by varying type and content of the film forming polymer as well as nature and content of the plasticizer. The resulting formulations were evaluated according to five criteria: drying time, cosmetic attractiveness, outward stickiness, integrity on skin (after 18 h) and viscosity. Among the 14 tested polymers 10 film formers yielded formulations with a positive evaluation in all five test criteria. Selected formulations were then investigated for tensile strength and elongation at break in vitro and for water vapor permeability in vitro (WVP) and in vivo (TEWL). Their mechanical properties determined in vitro were found to be not predictive for the flexibility and abrasion resistance observed on living skin. Similar to this, the results derived from the WVP and the TEWL methods were not in accordance with each other. Obviously, the investigated in vitro methods do not characterize the properties of the thin films on living skin satisfactorily. Nevertheless, the identified film forming solutions are a promising approach and will provide the basis for the further development of this novel dosage form.
Effect of organic solvent exposure on chronic kidney disease progression: the GN-PROGRESS cohort study.	It has been suggested that solvent exposure may have a role in the progression of glomerulonephritis (GN) to ESRD, but this has never been tested with an appropriate cohort study design. A total of 338 non-ESRD patients with a first biopsy for primary GN between 1994 and 2001 were included: 194 IgA nephropathies (IgAN), 75 membranous nephropathies (MN), and 69 FSGS. ESRD, defined as an estimated GFR <15 ml/min per 1.73 m2 or dialysis, was registered during a mean follow-up period of 5 yr. Patients' lifelong solvent exposures before and after diagnosis were recorded by interview and assessed by industrial hygienist experts. Cox models were used to estimate adjusted hazard ratios (HR) of ESRD related to exposures. Overall, 15 and 14% of the patients had been exposed at a low and a high level before diagnosis, respectively. Forty-two with IgAN, 12 with MN, and 22 with FSGS reached ESRD. A graded relationship was observed for MN (age- and gender-adjusted HR [95% confidence interval] for low exposure versus none was 3.1 [0.5 to 18.2] and for high exposure versus none was 8.2 [1.9 to 34.7]) and for IgAN (1.6 [0.7 to 3.9] and 2.2 [1.0 to 4.8]) but not for FSGS. Solvent risk was mediated only partly by baseline proteinuria: Adjusted HR for high exposure versus none was 5.5 (1.3 to 23.9) for MN and 1.8 (0.8 to 3.9) for IgAN. In patients with IgAN, there was a trend in increasing HR with exposure duration before and its persistence after diagnosis. These findings support the hypothesized association of solvent exposure with the progression of GN to ESRD. They should prompt clinicians to give greater attention to patients' occupational exposures and possibly to consider professional reclassification.
Influence of agricultural adjuvants on droplet spectra.	The formation of a spray is the result of interaction between the nozzle type and the spray liquid. When adjuvants lower the surface tension, a shift to a finer spray quality might be expected. Increases in viscosity might cause coarser sprays. The spray pressure, nozzle type and spray liquid determine spray performance. Adjuvants that cause droplets of oil in the spray mixture, for example crop oils, petroleum oils and even some water-insoluble emulsifiers and surfactants, may unexpectedly increase the spray droplet size. In cases where a finer spray is obtained, the volume fraction of drops smaller than 100 microm diameter, V(100), is expected to increase, but for some adjuvants a decrease in V(100) is observed. Finally, spray droplets may also differ when the concentration of the applied adjuvants changes. An overview based on reports in the literature is given of the effects of different classes of adjuvants used for agricultural cropping on spray droplet spectra. The effects of these adjuvants on spray formation depend on the type of nozzle in combination with the applied pressure.
Toluene inhalation induced neuronal damage in the spinal cord and changes of neurotrophic factors in rat.	We investigated the effects of toluene inhalation on neurons and neurotrophic factors in the spinal cord and the relationship between them. Male Wistar rats were exposed to toluene (1500ppm for 4h per day) for 7 days. To observe damage of the neurons in spinal cord with the toluene, expression of microtubule associated protein 2 (MAP2) and 70kDa heat shock protein (HSP70) in spinal cord were performed by immunohistochemistry. MAP2 was degraded and HSP70-immunoreactivity was enhanced in nerve cell bodies of the gray matter in toluene inhalation group. Immunoreactivity of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), a marker of astrocytes, was enhanced in the toluene-treated group. Furthermore, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF)- and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)-immunoreactivity in spinal cord were slightly decreased in the treated group. In addition, the concentrations of GDNF and BDNF in the spinal cord were determined using enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Concentration of GDNF was reduced significantly by toluene exposure. BDNF also reduced, but not significantly. The toluene inhalation caused the damage of the neuron in the spinal cord, which was accompanied by the decrease in the neurotrophic factors, such as BDNF and GDNF.
Infusional therapy for post-surgical biliary stones.	A variety of effective non-surgical forms are used for dealing with retained and recurrent biliary stones. These are endoscopic papillotomy, infusional therapy, intraductal laser or electrohydraulic lithotripsy and extracorporeal shock waves. Saline washout or chemical stone dissolution is currently used in high-risk subjects or in cases in which endoscopic papillotomy fails. For many years now drugs that should dissolve stones topically have been tested by direct infusion into the biliary tract. This approach has given better results over the last ten years with the adoption of Monooctanoin (Mo) and more recently Methyl tertbutyl ether (MTBE). Both preparations have their pros and cons, which are weighed.
Evaluation of mean arterial blood pressure, heart rate, and sympathetic nerve activity in rabbits after administration of two formulations of etomidate.	To evaluate and compare the effects of the aqueous sulfobutyl ether beta-cyclodextrin (SBE-CD) etomidate formulation and the commercial etomidate formulation on mean arterial pressure (MAP), heart rate, and sympathetic outflow using neuraxis-intact and baro-denervated rabbits.
Cardiovascular effects of selected water-miscible solvents for pharmaceutical injections and embolization materials: a comparative hemodynamic study using a sheep model.	Generally, organic water-miscible solvents are used intravascularly (both intravenously and intra-arterially) for preparing two types of formulations, namely, pharmaceutical injections of poorly soluble drugs and precipitating liquid embolic polymeric materials for the minimally invasive treatment of aneurysms, arteriovenous malformations, or tumors, by arterial route. Although several of such solvents have been used in both drug delivery and interventional radiology, their safety profile is a concern. In particular, there is a lack of comparative investigations of their cardiovascular effects when injected intra-arterially. We selected 13 non-aqueous water-miscible solvents based on their capacity to solubilize drugs or embolic polymeric materials, and on their described use, at least diluted with water, in pharmaceutical formulations. Their in vivo hemodynamic toxicity in male adult sheep after infra-renal aorta catheterization has been estimated with respect to the arterial and venous pressures, as well as the heart rate. Saline solution was used as a control. Three different volumes (0.1, 0.5, and 1.0 mL) were infused rapidly. An increase in arterial pressure and concomitant decrease in venous pressure, which we considered as signs of a cardiovascular toxicity, were observed to a differing extent for all organic solvents. Changes in heart rate were negligible. Based on the intensity of arterial pressure change after a 1-mL infusion, a classification of the toxicity of the solvents following intra-arterial infusion is proposed: Solvents devoid of significant cardiovascular toxicity: dimethyl isosorbide (DMI), Glycofurol 75, polyethylene glycol 200 (PEG 200), diglyme. Solvents with moderate cardiovascular toxicity: tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol (THFA), ethanol, acetone, Solketal, glycerol formal, dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO). Solvents with marked cardiovascular toxicity: propylene glycol, ethyl lactate, N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone (NMP). Emphasis is put on the relative character of the proposed ranking and on the lack for certain solvents, at least in the open literature, of data pertaining at other forms of toxic effects (e.g., undesirable pharmacological action, carcinogenicity, teratogenicity, mutagenicity, and irritating and sensitizing properties), all factors that have to be considered when selecting a proper solvent.
A prospective randomized single blind trial of Fleet phosphate enema versus glycerin suppositories as preparation for flexible sigmoidoscopy.	This study compared the efficacy and patient acceptability of two methods of bowel preparation for flexible sigmoidoscopy.
Methanol intoxication: pathological changes of central nervous system (17 cases).	The nervous system has increased susceptibility for methanol intoxication. The aim of this study is to investigate various central nervous system lesions of methanol intoxication in 17 cases autopsied in the mortuary department of the Council of Forensic Medicine in Istanbul, Turkey. The reasons of methanol intoxication in the cases was likely the unwitting ingestion of methanol while drinking illegal alcohol. Survival times ranged from several hours to days. In 8 cases (47%), cerebral edema and in 9 cases (53%) at occipital, temporal and parietal cortex, basal ganglia and pons, petechial bleeding was observed. In addition to these findings, hemorrhagic necrosis were observed in thalamus, putamen, and globus pallidus in 5 cases (29.4%) and, in cerebral cortex in another 3 cases (17.6%). In 3 of the cases (17.6%) in which cerebral edema was found, herniation findings accompanied to the situation and in 2 cases (11.7%), pons bleeding was observed. Around the basal ganglia, in 2 of the cases with hemorrhagic necrosis, the situation ended with a ventricular compression. In 7 cases (41%), the associated findings of chronic ischemic changes in cortical neurons, lacunae formation, degeneration of granular cell layer of the cerebellum, and reactive gliosis were considered as the results of chronic alcoholism.
Terra firma-forme dermatosis in a 4-month-old girl.	Terra firma-forme dermatosis (TFFD) is an idiopathic condition characterized by asymptomatic, dirtlike, thinly papillomatous, hyperpigmented plaques which cannot be removed with routine cleansing, but clear with firm wiping with 70% isopropyl or ethyl alcohol. Commonly involved sites include the neck, trunk, and umbilicus. Most reports have described adolescents or young adults with a history of normal hygiene and vigorous but unsuccessful attempts at cleansing the affected areas. We describe a 4-month-old girl with TFFD, who is the youngest patient thus far reported with this condition.
Prevalence and correlates of 'agua celeste' use among female sex workers who inject drugs in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico.	Agua celeste, or "heavenly water", is the street name for a sky-blue colored solvent reportedly inhaled or ingested to produce an intoxicating effect. Study aims were to (1) describe prevalence of agua celestse (AC) use, and (2) identify correlates of lifetime and recent use of AC use among female sex workers who also inject drugs (FSW-IDUs) in northern Mexico.
Antimicrobial efficacy of oral topical agents on microorganisms associated with radiated head and neck cancer patients: an in vitro study.	A variety of oral topical agents have been used for prevention and management of radiotherapy-induced adverse effects. The antimicrobial nature of some of the commonly used agents is unknown. The purpose of this study was to evaluate antimicrobial efficacies of various oral topical agents on common microorganisms associated with radiated head and neck cancer patients.
The nuclear receptor CAR modulates alcohol-induced liver injury.	The constitutive androstane receptor (CAR) is a member of the nuclear receptor superfamily and a sensor and detoxifier of both xenobiotics and endobiotics. Recent studies also show that CAR participates in metabolism of glucose and lipid, and has an important role in fatty liver disease and diabetes. In this study, we investigate the roles of CAR in chronic and acute alcohol-induced liver injuries. The results showed that absence of CAR in rodents led to significantly increased susceptibility to chronic alcohol-induced liver injury, which was accompanied with elevated hepatocyte apoptosis and fat accumulation. However, pre-activation of CAR by a CAR agonist, TCPOBOP, strongly enhanced the hepatic toxicity by both chronic and acute alcohol infusion in wild-type, but not in CAR(-/-) mice. Gene expression analyses indicated that CAR pre-activation and alcohol infusion synergistically decreased the expression of enzymes that metabolize the alcohol in liver. These results support a role of CAR in modulating alcoholic liver injury and imply a risk of synergistic liver toxicity induced by alcohol and CAR activation.
Maximum transepidermal flux for similar size phenolic compounds is enhanced by solvent uptake into the skin.	In principle, the maximum skin flux of solutes should be unaffected by the vehicle, unless that vehicle affects the skin. We recently showed that the maximum epidermal flux for 10 similarly sized phenolic compounds, with differing lipophilicities was defined by their solubility in the skin. Here, we extend these studies to examine how maximum fluxes are affected by cosolvents reported to enhance skin penetration. We compared in vitro human epidermal permeation and stratum corneum solubility for 10 phenols with similar molecular weights and hydrogen bonding but varying lipophilicity from 60% propylene glycol (PG)/water, 40% PG/water and water vehicles. We also measured solvent uptake into stratum corneum, investigated the changes in the attenuated total reflectance Fourier transform infrared (ATR-FTIR) spectroscopy of stratum corneum and the multiphoton microscopy (MPM) images of β-naphthol for the various vehicles. We found that phenolic compounds maximum flux and stratum corneum solubilities generally increased with the percentage of PG in the binary solvent system but that the estimated diffusivities appeared to be vehicle independent. Maximum fluxes were related to vehicle-dependent stratum corneum solubilities. Theses solubilities, in turn, depended on the amount of vehicle absorbed into the stratum corneum and the amount of phenolic compounds dissolved in that absorbed vehicle. ATR-FTIR and MPM studies suggest that the vehicle-induced increased uptake of solutes into the stratum corneum occurred by an increased solubility in intercellular lipids of stratum corneum.
Toxicity profile of solvents by aspiration approach for topical agent delivery to respiratory tract epithelium.	Agent solubility is a problem for aspiration of agents into lungs for chemopreventive efficacy evaluation, since many agents have to be dissolved in solvents. These solvents may be toxic to the lung epithelium. A study was conducted in female A/J mice to determine toxicity of different solvent concentrations by using saline, dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), ethanol, polyethylene glycol 400 (PEG-400), and labrasol for 1, 5, and 28 days via aspiration route. Toxicity was determined by measuring changes in body weight and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF). No significant difference was observed in body weight, differential cell counts, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and total protein in all solvent groups compared to saline by 28 days except 50% ethanol. However, myeloperoxidase (MPO) and macrophage inflammatory protein-2 (MIP-2) showed significant increase in 2% and 10% DMSO, 10% ethanol, 0.1% and 2% PEG-400, and 1% labrasol by longer dosing. All solvents except for 10% ethanol and 2% PEG-400 are suitable for agent aspiration.
Sclerotherapy of telangiectasias: a painless two-step technique.	Sclerotherapy of telangiectasias and reticular leg veins can be unpleasant and painful for some patients.
Hypertonic saline-epinephrine local injection therapy for post-endoscopic sphincterotomy bleeding: removal of blood clots using pure ethanol local injection.	Bleeding following endoscopic sphincterotomy (EST) is a rare but unavoidable complication of the procedure. We routinely perform local injection of hypertonic saline-epinephrine (HSE) for the treatment of post-EST bleeding. Any blood clot is removed only by irrigation with water after local injection of pure ethanol into the blood clot to cause crusting. We evaluated the usefulness of this treatment method.
Sex-specific divergence for adaptations to dehydration stress in Drosophila kikkawai.	Several studies on diverse Drosophila species have reported higher desiccation resistance of females, but the physiological basis of such sex-specific differences has received less attention. We tested whether sex-specific differences in cuticular traits (melanic females and non-melanic males) of Drosophila kikkawai correspond with divergence in their water balance mechanisms. Our results are interesting in several respects. First, positive clinal variation in desiccation resistance was correlated with cuticular melanisation in females but with changes in cuticular lipid mass in males, despite a lack of differences between the sexes for the rate of water loss. Second, a comparative analysis of water budget showed that females of the northern population stored more body water as well as hemolymph content and exhibited greater dehydration tolerance than flies from the southern tropics. In contrast, we found no geographical variation in the males for water content and dehydration tolerance. Third, an ~10-fold increase in the rate of water loss after organic solvent treatment of male D. kikkawai suggested a role of cuticular lipids in cuticular transpiration, but had no effect in the females. Fourth, geographical differences in the storage of carbohydrate content (metabolic fuel) were observed in females but not in males. Interestingly, in females, the rate of utilization of carbohydrates did not vary geographically, but males from drier localities showed a 50% reduction compared with wetter localities. Thus, body melanisation, increased body water, hemolymph, carbohydrate content and greater dehydration tolerance confer greater desiccation resistance in females, but a reduced rate of water loss is the only possible mechanism to cope with drought stress in males. Finally, acclimated females showed a significant increase in drought resistance associated with higher trehalose content as well as dehydration tolerance, while males showed no acclimation response. Thus, sex-specific differences in desiccation resistance of D. kikkawai are associated with divergence in some water balance strategies, despite a lack of differences in the rate of water loss between the two sexes. 
Neurobehavioral performance in volunteers after inhalation of white spirits with high and low aromatic content.	The content of aromatic hydrocarbons in solvent mixtures, such as white spirits (WS), has been assumed a major contributor to the neurotoxic effects of these compounds. Hence, dearomatized WS have been introduced to the market rapidly in the last decade. Studies investigating other aromatic hydrocarbons (toluene) and animal models have supported the aforementioned assumption, but the current study is the first one to compare acute neurobehavioral effects of exposure to aromatic and dearomatized WS (aWS, daWS) content in human volunteers at current occupational exposure limit values. In a pseudo-randomized crossover design, six female and six male healthy volunteers were exposed to aWS and daWS at two concentrations (100 and 300 mg/m(3)) and to clean air for 4 h at rest. During each of the five exposure conditions, volunteers performed five neurobehavioral tasks that were selected following a multidisciplinary approach that accounted for findings from the cognitive neurosciences and mechanisms of solvent toxicity. Two of the tasks indicated performance changes during aromatic WS exposure, the working memory (WM) and the response shifting task, but both effects are difficult to interpret due to low mean accuracy in the WM task and due to a lack of dose-response relationship in the response shifting task. Healthy human volunteers showed weak and inconsistent neurobehavioral impairment after 4-h exposures to 100 and 300 mg/m(3) aromatic or dearomatized WS. Our multidisciplinary approach of selecting neurobehavioral test methods may guide the test selection strategies in future studies. 
Treatment of cholecystolithiasis from the internal medicine viewpoint]	There is no better treatment method for the cholecystolithiasis accompanied by symptoms than the cholecystectomy. In the so-called mute gall an expecting attitude is justified. During the last years for selected patients with gallstones and calculi in the common bile duct, respectively, non-surgical therapeutic methods were developed. So it is possible for carriers of gallstones with slight to moderate complaints to undergo a medicamentous trial of litholysis with chenodesoxycholic acid or ursodesoxycholic acid or above all with a combination of these two bile acids. X-ray-negative calculi of less than 1.5 cm with a functioning gallbladder are the prerequisite. The extracorporeal stoss-wave lithotripsy is a new interesting method as well as the percutaneous or retrograde instillation of methyl-butyl ether. In these cases we are at the beginning, the international development should be pursued with attention. In calculi of the bile duct apart from operative methods the papillotomy and the extraction of calculi more than stood the test. The stoss-wave lithotripsy in calculi of the bile duct, which are to be removed neither by instillation of solvents nor endoscopically is a way out of the difficulty in contrast to the operation. As it is evident from the demonstrated facts the cholecystectomy, as the Swiss surgeon Rewbridge remarked already over 50 years ago, is really not the last answer to the problems of the cholelithiasis. Today it is the point to use the method best suited for the patient.
Influence of organic solvents on the anticoagulant response to warfarin in rats.	Exposure to styrene (S), trichloroethylene (TCE), and carbon tetrachloride (CT) is known to produce hepatotoxic effects in animals and humans. Warfarin (W), the coumarin anticoagulant, is mostly eliminated by hepatic biotransformation and the site of its anticoagulant action is located in the liver. Therefore, the effects of the above solvents on the anticoagulant response to W were studied in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Groups of rats were given i.p. injections of either S (6 and 12 mmole/kg) or TCE (5.6 and 11.2 mmole/kg) or CT (1 mmole/kg) in corn oil 24 h prior to or simultaneously with W (1 mg/kg, s.c.) and the animals were sacrificed 24 h after W. Doses of solvents used in this study showed hepatotoxic effects as verified by significant increases in serum transaminases response. A significant increase in prothrombin time (P.T.) was seen when W was treated simultaneously with S or TCE at any dose level, but not so with CT. An increase in the P.T. of W was also noticed in the groups pretreated with the highest dose of S or TCE and with CT group. Solvents alone had no effect on the P.T. So, acute exposure to organic solvents may lead to enhanced anticoagulant response to W.
2-chloroethanol--percutaneous toxicity of a solvent.	This report is a part of a comparative study where skin pathology, blood concentrations and percutaneous toxicity after epicutaneous administration of solvents are investigated. The method used for the study of percutaneous toxicity proved capable of differentiating between different applied amounts of 2-chloroethanol. This solvent was found to be highly toxic, even 0.10 ml killed all 20 exposed animals within 24 h. A 35% aqueous solution killed about half of the animals, while a 10% solution killed only 1 out of 20. A comparative study with intraperitoneal administration of the same amounts as epicutaneously, showed that the mortality and mean time until death diminished with rising amounts (with only one exception).
Three weeks' and six months' exposure to aromatic white spirit affect synaptosomal neurochemistry in rats.	The effects of 3 weeks' or 6 months' inhalation exposure of rats to aromatic white spirit 6 h/day, 5 days/week at 0, 400, or 800 ppm were studied. Synaptosomal neurochemistry was investigated as index of the in situ conditions in the presynaptic nerve terminal. In both studies, the relative and absolute yield of synaptosomal protein were significantly reduced in the two exposed groups. Both studies demonstrated increased synaptosomal noradrenaline (NA), dopamine (DA), and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) concentrations, high- affinity 5-HT uptake rate and uptake capacity. It is hypothesized that a reduced density and total number of synapses in situ may be functionally compensated by increased NA, DA, and 5-HT neurotransmitter release, or by increased activity of corresponding neurons. The increased synaptosomal 5-HT uptake rates and uptake capacities may explain the previously demonstrated increased global and regional neurotransmitter concentrations and the present finding of increased synaptosomal 5-HT concentrations. These changes are interpreted as an indication of toxic effect on the CNS function and are considered supportive of recent findings of electrophysiological changes and affected motor activity following 6 months' exposure to dearomatized white spirit followed by an exposure-free period.
The association between sniffing inhalants and injecting drugs.	There is evidence that the use of inhalants might prove to be a modifiable risk factor for intravenous (IV) drug use, or possibly an important vulnerability marker. However, this evidence has come from studies using samples of convenience, such as a mixture of psychiatric patients, felons, and their relatives. If there is a link between these two different forms of drug-using behaviors, then a statistical association should be found in epidemiologic studies with rigorous sampling procedures--even after statistical adjustment for plausible confounding variables such as sex, age, socioeconomic status, and the use of drugs such as marijuana. To probe this suspected causal association, we analyzed epidemiologic data from the 1990 National Household Survey on Drug Abuse sponsored by the National Institute on Drug Abuse. The population for this survey consisted of all household residents aged 12 years and older in the conterminous United States, with respondents selected by probability sampling. A total of 9,259 respondents completed the confidential self-report interview conducted by trained interviewers; 192 persons reported a history of injecting drugs for nonmedical reasons (e.g., to get high), and 9,067 reported never injecting drugs. As hypothesized, inhalant use was found to be associated with injecting drugs (relative odds [RO] = 11.8). After adjustment for sex, age, race, socioeconomic status, and use of marijuana, inhalant users still were 5.35 times more likely than nonusers to have injected drugs (P < .001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effect of small doses of ethylene glycol monomethyl ether on the acetylcholinesterase and delta-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase activity in erythrocytes, blood and bone marrow of rats.	The effect of small doses of ethylene glycol monomethyl ether (EGMME) on the activity of acetylcholinesterase (ACHE) in erythrocytes and whole blood as well as on the delta-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase (ALA-D) in blood and bone marrow was studied in Wistar rats. Significant reduction in the activity of both enzymes was noted three days after ip administration of 200 mg/kg b.w. EGMME whereas seven days later the activity of both enzymes returned to the control levels. Activity of ALA-D in blood appeared to be most sensitive to EGMME, and reacted even to the lowest dose, which did not significantly alter activity of ACHE or ALA-D in bone marrow. Haematological parameters in all treated groups remained unaltered.
Aflatoxin B1 induced lacI mutation in liver and kidney of transgenic mice C57BL/6N: effect of phorone.	Transgenic C57BL/6N mice containing a lambda shuttle vector carrying a lacI target and an alpha-lacZ reporter gene have been used to study the modulating effect of phorone, a glutathione-depleting agent, on the mutagenic activity of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) in vivo. Animals were treated with AFB1 (8 mg/kg) for four consecutive days and the animals sacrificed 21 days after the last treatment. Treatment with AFB1 alone did not result in a significant increase in mutation frequency in the liver and kidney. When the animals were treated with phorone 4 h prior to treatment with AFB1 a significant increase in mutation frequency was observed in the liver (4-fold) and kidney (1.5-fold). Phorone treatment did not increase the AFB1-induced mutation frequency in the lung and intestine. DNA sequence analyses of 30 independent clones isolated from the liver of AFB1-treated animals showed that G:C --> T:A transversion (60%) was the predominant mutational event. Mutations within the lacI gene could not be detected in seven of 30 mutants. The mutations were randomly distributed throughout the coding sequences of the lacI gene and no hotspots for the mutations were observed. However, codons 86 and 928 appeared to be major sites for mutation. The study shows that the transgenic mouse in vivo mutagenesis model can be used to study the influence of effect-modifying compounds on the mutagenic activity of known carcinogens.
Percutaneous hepatic infarction therapy for hepatocellular carcinoma.	We percutaneously injected ethanol into small vessels afferent to tumor nodules to induce hepatic infarction in areas of tumor caused by hepatocellular carcinoma.
The effects of inhaled isoparaffins on locomotor activity and operant performance in mice.	Very little is known qualitatively or quantitatively about the acute central nervous system effects of isoparaffin solvents that are widely used in household and commercial applications. Four isoparaffinic hydrocarbon solvent products differing in predominant carbon number and volatility (ISOPAR-C, -E -G, -H) were tested for their acute effects on locomotor activity and operant performance after inhalation exposure in mice. For both measures, concentration-effect curves were obtained for 30-min exposures using a within-subject design. The more volatile products, ISOPAR-C and -E, were as easily vaporized under our conditions as vapors such as toluene and TCE, which have acute effects on human behavior and are abused. ISOPAR-G was slowly volatilized and ISOPAR-H could not be completely volatilized within our 30-min exposures, suggesting that acute human exposures may be less likely and that it may be more difficult to abuse them. ISOPAR-C, -E, and -G produced reversible increases in locomotor activity of mice at 4000 and 6000 ppm while ISOPAR-C and -E produced reversible concentration-dependent decreases in rates of schedule-controlled operant behavior in approximately the same concentration range as they affected locomotor activity. The fact that only locomotor activity increases were observed with these isoparaffins provides evidence that they produce a different pattern of effects than those reported for abused solvents such as toluene and TCE. Further research will be needed to determine if this different pattern of effects on animal behavior between isoparaffins and abused solvents is correlated with a different pattern of acute intoxication and abuse potential in humans.
Suprathreshold intensity and annoyance reactions in experimental challenge to toluene and n-butyl acetate among subjects with long-term solvent exposure.	This study explores reactions to low-level chemical challenge, aiming at the development of test procedures for assessing individual sensitivity to smells and chemicals.
