Absence of polyneuropathy among workers previously diagnosed with solvent-induced toxic encephalopathy.	An association between polyneuropathy and occupational exposure to trichloroethylene, trichloroethane, perchloroethylene, or similar solvents alone or in combination is controversial. We sought to determine whether workers previously diagnosed with solvent-induced toxic encephalopathy had objective evidence of polyneuropathy. Thirty railroad workers previously diagnosed with toxic encephalopathy were examined in the context of litigation against their employers. All described long-term occupational solvent exposure averaging 20 years in duration (range, 10 to 29 years) and producing acute intoxication on a regular basis. The diagnosis of subclinical or clinical polyneuropathy was established using a combination of symptoms, signs, and nerve conduction study (NCS) measures, consistent with standard clinical practice. Potential confounders were identified. NCS results were compared with historical controls, including unexposed workers matched by gender, age, and body mass index. Dose-response relationships were evaluated using simple linear and stepwise regression models. Three workers fulfilled clinical polyneuropathy criteria. The only worker fulfilling NCS criteria for confirmed clinical polyneuropathy had diabetes mellitus. Mean NCS values for most measures were similar to control values, and existing differences in sensory amplitudes disappeared when compared with the matched control group. NCS measures were not significantly influenced by exposure duration or job title. Separation into groups on the basis of the presence or absence of polyneuropathy symptoms, previous diagnosis of polyneuropathy, disability status, and severity or type of encephalopathy did not demonstrate significant NCS differences. The complaints of these workers claiming neurotoxic injury from occupational solvent exposure are not explained by peripheral nervous system dysfunction.
Occupational risk factors for pancreatic cancer: a case-control study based on death certificates from 24 U.S. states.	The relation between occupational exposure and pancreatic cancer is not well established. A population-based case-control study based on death certificates from 24 U.S. states was conducted to determine if occupations/industries or work-related exposures to solvents were associated with pancreatic cancer death.
Cytochrome CYP2E1 phenotyping and genotyping in the evaluation of health risks from exposure to polluted environments.	Humans are exposed to over 70,000 man-made chemicals including drugs, food additives, herbicides, pesticides, and industrial agents. It is well established that environmental chemicals are the cause of numerous human diseases including cancer. In most cases, chemical carcinogens require metabolic activation, which is mainly achieved by P450s enzymes. CYP2E1 is of clinical relevance because it is inducible by ethanol, and it metabolizes many common organic solvents such as benzene, alcohols and halogenated solvents. Therefore, alteration in the level of CYP2E1 might influence the health effects of the environmental pollutants. This hypothesis needs to be validated by epidemiological studies and the objective of the "Biomed-2" project was to develop new tests to assess the individual metabolic capacity of workers exposed to volatile organic compounds in order to predict their occupational risk. In vivo chlorzoxazone 6-hydroxylation was validated as a non-invasive and selective test for the determination of liver CYP2E1 activity. Preliminary data in workers exposed to organic solvents indicated that chlorzoxazone metabolism may be a biomarker of occupational exposure to organic solvents. Other approaches, such as use of salicylate as catalytic probe or measurement of catalytic activity in lymphocytes, were not conclusive. Attempts to use CYP2E1 genotyping for estimating human risks from chemical exposure did not bring convincing data as genetic polymorphism of CYP2E1 could not be clearly related to its catalytic activity.
Familial systemic sclerosis following exposure to organic solvents and the possible implication of genetic factors.	Both genetic and environmental factors are suspected to play a role in the pathogenesis of systemic sclerosis. We compare its occurrence in 3 sisters working in a dry cleaner's shop and exposed to occupational inhalation of organic solvents. Two sisters showing the human leukocyte antigens (HLA)-DR11/DQ7 haplotype were affected. The third has maintained the same job as the others for over 10 years and has no signs of the disease. The fact that she has a different HLA haplotype points to the significance of genetic factors in increasing the risk of systemic sclerosis. It is suggested that the DR11/DQ7 haplotype enhances the development of a clinical subset of systemic sclerosis associated with production of anti-topoisomerase-I antibodies, and that environmental triggers prime the disease in subjects with this genetic background.
Cutaneous drug reaction case reports: from the world literature.	Skin disorders are the most common adverse reactions attributed to drugs. Any skin disorder can be imitated, induced or aggravated by drugs. To help you keep up-to-date with the very latest skin reactions occurring with both new and established drugs, this section of the journal brings you information selected from the adverse drug reaction alerting service Reactions Weekly. The following case reports are selected from the very latest to be published in the world dermatology literature. Any claim of a first report has been verified by a search of AdisBase (a proprietary database of Adis International, Auckland, New Zealand) and Medline. Each case report is assessed for seriousness using the FDA MedWatch definition of serious (patient outcome is: death; life-threatening; hospitalization; disability; congenital anomaly; or requires intervention to prevent permanent impairment or damage).
Hearing loss among workers exposed to moderate concentrations of solvents.	It is known that some industrial organic solvents are ototoxic. This study was aimed at evaluating the hearing effects of a mixture of organic solvents alone or in combination with noise on employees in paint and lacquer enterprises. The concentration of solvents was below the occupational exposure limits (OEL) for most of the subjects.
Toxic effects of benzene and toluene]	The research of benzene and toluene toxic effects has been carried out in the Republic of Croatia. The paper presents the results. The research of early indicators of benzene hematotoxicity, immunotoxicity and genotoxicity and toluene neurotoxicity has been conducted on the level of methods applicable in the occupational medicine preventive activities. Methods appropriate for prevention and diagnostics of health impairment of workers occupationally exposed to benzene and toluene have been recommended.
Occupation and larynx and hypopharynx cancer: a job-exposure matrix approach in an international case-control study in France, Italy, Spain and Switzerland.	To investigate the effect of exposure to occupational agents on the risk of hypopharyngeal/laryngeal cancer.
Report on a conference on organic solvents and the nervous system.	At two scientific conferences in 1985, one in Copenhagen sponsored by the Nordic Council of Ministers and the World Health Organization (WHO), the other in Raleigh, NC, it was concluded that chronic toxic encephalopathy may develop following long-term occupational exposure to organic solvents (1,2). The terms organic affective syndrome, mild and severe chronic toxic encephalopathy were suggested for this condition describing increasing severity. In May 1990, a conference on organic solvents and the nervous system was held in Copenhagen sponsored by the Commission of the European Communities and the Danish Ministry of the Environment (3). Scientists and representatives from the governments, industries, and labour organisations from the EEC and US participated.
Mycosis fungoides progression and chronic solvent exposure.	The effect of repeated exposure to specific chemicals on the initiation or progression of mycosis fungoides (MF) remains unsettled. A patient with low-grade patch stage MF progressively developed MF plaques restricted to his arms, and a tumour on his right thigh. These areas were subject to repeated exposure to solvents. His thigh was indeed in close contact with his trousers pocket where he used to store a wiping rag drenched into white spirit and cellulosic thinner. Immunophenotyping these lesions revealed a dense LCA+, CD2+, CD3+, CD4+, CD5+, CD7+, CD45+, CD45RO+ T-cell infiltrate admixed with many factor XIIIa+ dendrocytes. T-cell receptor rearrangement analysis identified a monoclonal T-cell infiltrate. An internal work-up remained negative. Stopping further solvent exposure failed to improve his condition. Oral corticotherapy combined with low-dose interferon-alpha2a halted disease progression. This observation suggests that long-term solvent exposure may trigger MF and hasten its progression from the patch stage to the plaque and tumour stages.
Occupational exposure to mixtures of organic solvents increases the risk of neurological symptoms among printing workers in Hong Kong.	Summarize the nature and extent of exposure to organic solvents to which printing workers in this study were subjected. Compare the numbers of neurological symptoms in exposed and non-exposed workers and how they related to level of exposure, as defined by specific job title or by air sampling. Clarify the relationship between exposure to organic solvents and individual psychoneurological and other symptoms.
Severe heart failure due to toxic cardiomyopathy in a young patient--a case report]	A case of a 26-year-old male with a two-week history of increased dyspnea, weakness and depressed physical tolerance, is presented. Dilated cardiomyopathy due to cardiotoxic effects of toluene was diagnosed. Echocardiography showed left ventricular ejection fraction of 15%. Standard pharmacological treatment, including amiodarone administered due to atrial fibrillation, caused constant clinical improvement, return of sinus rhythm and increase in the ejection fraction to 45%.
Types of autoregulation of cardiac performance in patients with occupational diseases exposed to physical and chemical agents in combination with arterial hypertension]	The formation of the heterometric mechanism responsible for the autoregulation of cardiac performance (the development of the left ventricle (LV) mainly as isotonic) is characteristic of patients with vibration disease and arterial hypertension (AH). The homeometric mechanism of autoregulation of cardiac performance (the development of LV hyperfunction mainly as isometric) is typical of patients with chronic intoxications (with organic solvents and uranium). In AH, LV hyperfunction is leveled in the late postconduct period of exposure to a physical agent, but preserved in the late postconduct period of exposure to a chemical agent.
Evaluation of current biological exposure index for occupational N, N-dimethylformamide exposure from synthetic leather workers.	The aim of this study was (1) to investigate the correlation between external exposure to N, N-dimethylformamide (DMF) and urinary excretion of DMF and N-methylformamide; (2) to assess whether the correspondence between the current occupational exposure limit setting and recommended urinary biological exposure index is substantial; and (3) to evaluate whether coexposure to toluene, methyl ethyl ketone, and ethyl acetate has an effect on urinary excretion of DMF and N-methylformamide (NMF). Urinary DMF and NMF were significantly correlated (P < 0.01) with one another and also significantly correlated with airborne DMF (P < 0.01) over the range of 1.55 to 152.8 mg/m. Urinary DMF can be considered a complementary marker for short-term exposure. Urinary concentration of NMF and DMF, corresponding to the 8-hour exposure to airborne DMF at 30 mg/m, was estimated to 38.4 mg/L or 39.4 mg/g creatinine for NMF and to 0.92 mg/L or 0.96 mg/g creatinine for DMF.
Solvent toxicity in organic-aqueous systems analysed by multivariate analysis.	The effect of several solvents present in a biphasic reaction system on cells of Rhodococcus erythropolis DCL14, Xanthobacter Py2, Arthrobacter simplex and Mycobacterium sp. NRRL B-3805 was evaluated. These four strains have been widely exploited, from bioremediation to the production of fine chemicals, in two-phase reaction media. The solvents tested were ethyl butyrate, n-hexane, cyclohexane, iso-octane, n-dodecane, DMSO, bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate and fluorinert FC-70. The cell population was monitored by fluorescence microscopy and analysis of the images captured provided single-cell-level information on cell viability, morphological factors of both viable and non-viable cells, and on the number of viable cells in clusters. These data, and those concerning the initial carveol concentration, the carbon source used during growth, the adaptation time to the solvent prior to substrate addition, and the properties of the organic solvent, were interpreted using principal components analysis (PCA). For R. erythropolis, X. Py2, and A. simplex, between 70.1 and 80.4% of the variability of the data could be explained by six principal components, while 86.7% of the variance in the results obtained with Mycobacterium sp. could be represented by seven principal components. In all cases, solvent toxicity could explain over a third of the variability in the data. R. erythropolis cells were able to maintain their viability under harsh conditions. A period of contact between cells and solvent, prior to the addition of substrate, was prejudicial for R. erythropolis and A. simplex cells, at least for the most toxic solvents, but was beneficial for X. Py2 cells. The number of Mycobacterium sp. cells in clusters was lower after an adaptation period compared to the number of cells in aggregates when the substrate was added at time zero. The substrates transformed by R. erythropolis and A. simplex cells increased the toxicity of the system by decreasing the log P of the reaction mixture. Hydrocortisone was responsible for a reduction in the ability of A. simplex to respond to stress conditions. Mycobacterium sp. cells were apparently unaffected by beta-sitosterol. The results obtained are useful for the design of more efficient two-phase reaction systems where solvent toxicity may be overcome in order to increase cell productivity.
Hemoglobin adducts in workers exposed to nitrotoluenes.	Nitrotoluenes are important intermediates in the chemical industry. 2,6-Dinitrotoluene (26DNT), 2,4-dinitrotoluene (24DNT) and 2-nitrotoluene are carcinogenic in animals and possibly carcinogenic in humans. It is therefore important to develop methods to biomonitor workers exposed to such chemicals. Hemoglobin (Hb) adducts of nitroarenes are established markers of the biological effective dose. We developed a method to measure Hb adducts in biological samples. Hb adducts were measured in rats after a single exposure (0.5 mmol/kg) of 24DNT, 26DNT, 2,4-toluenediamine (24TDA) and 26TDA. Hydrolysis of Hb from rats dosed with 24DNT yields, 4-amino-2-nitrotoluene (4A2NT) (16.3 nmol/g Hb), 24TDA (4.3 nmol/g Hb) and 4-acetylamino-2-aminotoluene (4AA2AT) (0.51 nmol/g Hb). Hydrolysis of Hb from rats dosed with 26DNT yields three amines, 2-amino-6-nitrotoluene (2A6NT) (2.5 nmol/g Hb), 26TDA (1.2 nmol/g Hb) and 2-acetylamino-6-aminotoluene (2AA6AT) (0.17 nmol/g Hb). A similar Hb adduct pattern was found in Chinese workers exposed to nitrotoluenes. With respect to 24DNT, 4A2NT was the predominant adduct, and the amount was approximately 24-fold higher than 24TDA. With respect to 26DNT, 2A6NT was the predominant adduct, and the amount was approximately 20-fold higher than 26TDA. With respect to the mononitrotoluenes, the Hb adduct of 2NT was present in the highest concentrations. Each worker was examined for adverse health effects linked to exposure to DNT. The health effects were compared with the Hb adduct levels using logistic regression analysis. The odds of suffering from inertia were 3.2 times higher [95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.8-5.8] when the level of 4A2NT Hb adducts increased by one log-unit. Similar odds ratios were observed with somnolence (3.1, CI = 1.4-6.9), nausea (2.4, CI = 1.3-4.3) and dizziness (5.5, CI = 1.3-24.2). These results inferred that quantification of DNT-Hb adducts provided an effective biomarker of toxicity and could be used to estimate the risk associated with a particular exposure to DNT.
Effects of occupational solvent exposure on reproductive hormone concentrations and fecundability in men.	Little is known about the effects of organic solvents on male reproductive health. To assess fertility and reproductive endocrine function in solvent-exposed men, we investigated time-to-pregnancy using a retrospective cohort design and cross-sectionally measured reproductive hormone concentrations in painters and millwrights compared to a reference group of carpenters.
Systemic sclerosis and occupational risk factors: role of solvents and cleaning products.	To analyze occupational and non-occupational exposure factors suspected of being associated with scleroderma (SSc), with a view to inculpating or excluding certain potentially toxic substances (e.g., solvents), thereby contributing to the recognition of such toxins in the field of occupational health.
Peripheral nerve conduction study in workers exposed to a mixture of organic solvents in paint and lacquer industry.	To compare levels of combined exposure to white spirit, toluene, butyl acetate, ethyl acetate, and xylene in the manufacturing of paint, cartridge, drying, and top-coat sections of paint and lacquer industry, and peripheral nerve conduction parameters in the exposed workers.
Does occupational exposure to organic solvents affect colour discrimination?	This review assesses the evidence regarding the effects of occupational exposure to organic solvents on colour discrimination and investigates exposure-response relationships and reversibility. This review also considers the current state of knowledge of the possible mechanisms underlying changes in colour vision, and the human health significance of any reported changes. Among the commonly used organic solvents, styrene has been investigated the most thoroughly. Studies of styrene-exposed workers in Germany, Italy and Japan provide a sufficiently consistent body of evidence to support a robust conclusion that styrene does cause an impairment of colour discrimination relative to age-matched controls. Generally, the impairment of colour discrimination observed in styrene-exposed workers tends to be of the tritan (blue-yellow) type, although some cases of red-green impairment have also been found. The limited information available on exposure-response relationships indicates that the effects on colour discrimination would not be expected at 8-hour time weighted average (8 h TWA) exposures <20 ppm, although a precise threshold cannot be determined. The data on reversibility are limited and inconclusive. The results from the most rigorous study in which this aspect was investigated point to a reversibility of effects after a 4-week exposure-free period, whereas results from a study with limitations suggest a persistence of effect. The effects of toluene, tetrachloroethylene or mixed solvent exposure have also been investigated, although the information available is generally less reliable than for styrene. For toluene, it can be confidently concluded that this solvent does not have an acute effect on colour discrimination, even when exposures are relatively high (50-150 ppm 8 h TWA, and 290-360 ppm 30 minutes TWA). However, studies are inconclusive on whether long-term or repeated exposure to toluene can cause a persistent impairment of colour discrimination. There are few studies that have specifically investigated the effects of tetrachloroethylene on colour discrimination. Among these studies, none has examined the potential for any acute effects of this solvent vapour. A large-scale study in Japanese workers showed no effects of long-term exposure to tetrachloroethylene concentrations in the region of 12-13 ppm. However, the test methodology used was relatively insensitive to changes in colour discrimination, hence the results do not provide reassurance for an absence of subtle effects. A study in Italian dry-cleaners suggested a slight impairment of colour discrimination relative to controls, associated with relatively low exposures to tetrachloroethylene (mean 8 h TWA exposure approximately 6 ppm). The studies concerning the effects of mixed solvent exposure on colour discrimination are based on workers exposed to solvents in paints and lacquers, workers from the printing and petrochemical industries, people working in or living near to microelectronics factories and children exposed to solvents prenatally. However, these studies are subject to design limitations or methodological irregularities, such that no conclusions regarding the effects of mixed solvent exposure on colour discrimination can be drawn. Overall, the only credible evidence for an effect of solvents on colour discrimination derives from the studies on styrene. Because of limitations in the data for other solvents it is not possible to determine whether the evidence for styrene reflects a generic property of solvents. The mechanisms of styrene-induced effects on colour discrimination have not been properly investigated and can only be the subject of speculation. One conclusion that can be drawn is that pathological changes to the ocular system, such as changes to the lens, are unlikely to be involved. This is because there is an absence of convincing evidence for such changes from medical examinations conducted in epidemiological studies of solvent-exposed workers. Also, it seems unlikely that effects on colour discrimination are a nonspecific consequence of more generalised CNS depression, given that styrene-induced effects on colour discrimination appear to occur below the threshold for narcotic effects. The effects of styrene on colour discrimination are subtle and involve an impairment of the ability to discriminate accurately between closely related shades of the same colour rather than 'colour blindness'. There is no valid basis for using colour discrimination as a marker for other forms of solvent-induced neurotoxicity.
Acute inhalant-induced neurotoxicity with delayed recovery.	To report a case of neurotoxicity and subsequent hospitalization due to abuse of an ethyl chloride inhalant.
Essential tremor: occupational exposures to manganese and organic solvents.	Occupational exposures to manganese and organic solvents cause parkinsonism as well as prominent action tremor, resembling essential tremor (ET), yet their association with ET has not been studied. These chemicals cause cerebellar pathology. Cerebellar changes have been linked with ET. Using lifetime occupational histories, the authors demonstrated that occupational exposures were similar in cases and controls, which does not support an etiologic link between occupational exposures to these chemicals and ET.
Sleep disturbances and exposure to organic solvents.	An inquiry about sleep habits and sleep disturbances revealed a significantly higher prevalence of insomnia in a solvent-exposed group than in a comparable group that had no occupational exposure to organic solvents. In the solvent-exposed group was also registered an increased consumption of hypnotics, and a significant increase occurred in the number of individuals who had consulted physicians because of sleep disorders. The results indicate that solvent exposure could induce sleep disturbance.
Children of male spray painters: weight and length at birth.	The course and outcome of the pregnancies of the wives of 80 spray painters and 80 electronics workers were recorded from birth registers, hospital records, and a questionnaire. The two groups of men had previously been subjected to psychological, psychiatric, neurophysiological, and neurological tests. The variables recorded were occupational exposure to solvents; number of births, ectopic pregnancies, and miscarriages; weight, length, and malformations of the newborn children; duration of the pregnancies; birth complications; and neonatal hospital treatment. The mean length and weight of the children of spray painters at birth were slightly lower than those of the children of electronics workers. No differences were recorded for serious complications of pregnancy, malformations, or clinical course after birth.
Influence of the organic matrix on root dentine erosion by citric acid.	This investigation was conducted in an attempt to clarify the role of the organic matrix in bovine dentine demineralisation by 1% citric acid. Dentine slabs (n = 15) were treated for 2 min with 10% sodium hypochlorite (NaOCl, a strong protein solvent), 2% glutaraldehyde (GDA, a protein fixative) or deionised water (DIW, as negative control) prior to each of 5 demineralisation periods of 30 min. The mineral loss (DeltaZ), lesion depth (LD) and surface loss (SL) were determined after each period of demineralisation, by transverse microradiography. The NaOCl-treated group showed higher DeltaZ and LD than the GDA- and DIW-treated groups. No differences between GDA and DIW groups were found. The DeltaZ and LD profiles were explained by quadratic fits (r(2) >0.80; p = 0.001) in all groups. SL was detected only in the NaOCl-treated group. The data suggested that the maintenance of the organic matrix in the lesion might be important to reduce the erosion progression rate.
Solar urticaria and porphyrias.	The importance of disturbances of porphyrin metabolism in solar urticaria is discussed. 15 cases of porphyrias with sun sensitivity are presented comprising 5 cases of erythropoietic protoporhyria, 8 cases of coproporphyria hereditaria and 2 cases of porphyria variegata, 9 out of these 10 patients presented neuroabdominal symptoms and in 4 cases contraceptive pills have triggered the disease. Due to the risk of severe forms of disease sometimes drugs induced porphyrias must be considered in all cases of solar urticaria and a correct laboratory study done in the suspected cases.
Adverse pregnancy outcomes in relation to water consumption: a re-analysis of data from the original Santa Clara County Study, California, 1980-1981.	Residents of a census tract that received drinking water from a well contaminated with solvents were previously shown to experience a spontaneous abortion rate over twice that occurring in an unexposed census tract. In addition, the rate of birth defects in the exposed tract was three times that in the unexposed tract. Surprisingly, increased tapwater consumption was associated with higher rates of spontaneous abortions in both the exposed and the unexposed tracts. Subsequent studies in this area have investigated the relation between spontaneous abortions and consumption of tapwater in more detail. In this report, data from the original study have been re-analyzed using methods comparable with those used in more recent studies. These results confirm the association between spontaneous abortions and reported cold tapwater consumption that was seen in the original study. The observed effect was not due to maternal risk factors, nor was it a function of consumption of bottled water. After controlling for bottled water, the odds ratio for consumption of tapwater was 3.4 (95% confidence interval = 0.6-19.4).
Spontaneous abortions and birth defects related to tap and bottled water use, San Jose, California, 1980-1985.	We recently studied pregnancies occurring during 1980-1985 in four study areas in Santa Clara County, California. Two of the areas were exposed to solvent-contaminated drinking water during 1980 and 1981, and two were unexposed. There was an overall excess of spontaneous abortions among women who reported any tapwater consumption during the first trimester of pregnancy compared with those who reported no tapwater consumption [odds ratio (OR) = 4.0; 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.8-9.1)], regardless of exposure to the contaminated water. The odds ratio for spontaneous abortion for women reporting any vs no tapwater was 6.9 (95% CI = 2.7-17.7) after adjustment for numerous potential confounders using multiple logistic regression analyses. The elevated odds ratio of spontaneous abortion was seen among tapwater drinkers who used no filters or softener-type filters but not among women who reported use of active filters. Spontaneous abortion rates were reduced in women who reported any vs no bottled water consumption (OR = 0.26; 95% CI = 0.16-0.43). Among women who reported no tapwater consumption, no birth defects occurred among 263 live births; in comparison, among women who reported tapwater consumption, 4% of 908 live births had defects (P = 0.0001). We observed no relation between birth defects and bottled water use.
Long-term neuropsychological impact of brief occupational exposure to organic solvents.	This case series describes the cognitive functioning of 10 individuals who were briefly exposed to a mixture of organic solvents as a result of an industrial accident. Data were obtained 10 years after the exposure on measures of intellect, memory, attention, and executive functioning, using standardised neuropsychological measures including WAIS III, WMS III, Hayling and Brixton Tests, The Trail Making Test, Controlled Oral Word Association, Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure Test, and The Speed and Capacity of Language-Processing Test. The group performed in the average range across the majority of measures but deficits (z > 1.0 S.D.) were observed on tests that measure speed of information processing, memory, attention, and verbal fluency. Discrepancy scores between the NART and the WAIS suggest subtle but statistically significant decline in performance IQ following solvent exposure.
The clinical significance of sleep apnoea in workers exposed to organic solvents: implications for the diagnosis of organic solvent encephalopathy.	Among 51 patients referred for investigation of possible organic solvent encephalopathy 20 (39%) had pathological sleep apnoea [apnoea index (AI) greater than 5], compared with 5 of 16 house painters exposed to solvents (31%) who were screened for the disorder, and 1 of 18 (6%) age-matched controls. Twelve of the patients with AI greater than 5 were retested after 2 or more weeks without exposure to solvents, and showed a significant drop in AI. Likewise, significantly lower AI was seen in patients who were no longer exposed to solvents, compared with recently exposed patients. The implications of these findings for diagnostic evaluation of solvent encephalopathy and sleep apnoea are discussed.
Epidemiology of risks in the workplace]	Epidemiologic studies of occupationally exposed subjects allow to detect diseases caused by the work environment and to identify hazardous exposures. They provide the basis for preventive measures and workers compensation. Occupational epidemiology traditionally emphasized the study of work related cancer. Long latency periods for the development of most cancers and limited information about the exposure history of the study subjects are problems for all study types. The specific advantages and limitations of different study designs are discussed. Research strategies in occupational epidemiology are demonstrated using as an example two studies from the American tire and rubber industry. The specific contributions of a historical cohort study and a nested case-control study, concerning the association between lymphosarcoma and exposure to solvents, are discussed. Experiences and first results from a historical cohort study in the German rubber industry are reported. Future research in occupational epidemiology should concentrate more on the study of work related morbidity such as musculoskeletal disorders, hearing loss, accidents and the influence of the work environment on the mental and physical well being. Modern research methods such as prospective cohort studies or workforce monitoring should be used more often. Prospective cohort studies provide quantitatively and qualitatively more precise information about exposures and potential confounders, e.g. cigarette smoking or alcohol consumption, than traditional study methods. The promising perspectives of biological markers warrant further research. The situation of occupational epidemiology in Germany can only be improved if all concerned parties and institutions realize the importance of occupational epidemiology. Laws concerning data confidentiality which seriously hamper epidemiologic research must be modified.
Distinct cytogenetic and clinicopathologic features in acute myeloid leukemia after occupational exposure to pesticides and organic solvents.	To study the correlation of environmental exposure to potentially mutagenic agents and the clinicopathologic picture in acute myeloid leukemia (AML), clinical features, morphologic characteristics, immunophenotype, and cytogenetics were studied in 59 patients with newly diagnosed AML.
Hearing: the effects of chemicals.	Recent studies of human beings exposed to environmental chemicals, as well as experimental animal studies, have identified a number of chemical agents that are commercial products, chemical intermediaries, waste products, or contaminants that are potentially ototoxic. The classes of compounds discussed in this review include organic solvents, asphyxiant gases, and heavy metals that are present in the environment as industrial pollutants or byproducts. Both human and animal investigations are summarized in discussing the actions of these ototoxic compounds. The suggested gaps in our knowledge are highlighted to help direct future research.
Otoneurologic disturbances caused by solvent pollution.	Subjects exposed to industrial solvents may experience vertigo and nausea. Solvents are usually volatile hydrocarbon compounds, which are important parts of everyday life in a modern society. They may also cause neurastenia, personality changes, and reduced intellectual capacity. The syndrome that may develop was formerly named psycho-organic syndrome (POS), but in modern terminology it is called chronic toxic encephalopathy (CTE). The syndrome develops slowly, and during the first years no pathological findings will be found using various test batteries. Somewhat later, when the syndrome still might be reversible, psychometric, auditory, and otoneurologic testing may well unveil disturbances within the posterior fossa structures. Animal experiments suggest one site of effect for solvents to be within the cerebellum and brainstem regions with close relationship to the gamma-amino-butyric acid (GABA) transmission. In the otoneurologic test battery, visual suppression and smooth pursuit are of extreme value, as are some auditory tests such as discrimination of interrupted speech and cortical response audiometry using frequency glides as stimuli. Dynamic posturography and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) have recently proved valuable in the diagnosis. Research is needed concerning the most efficient test battery for early detection of solvent-induced lesions. During further research it is important to unveil other toxic agents, like heavy metals and alcohol, and their damage to the central nervous system and to make comparisons between these substances and the lesions caused by hydrocarbon solvents.
Impact of the acid flow rate on dentin erosion.	The study aimed to evaluate the erosive effects of acids flowing with different velocities and duration on dentin previously pre-treated with distilled water or human saliva.
NaOCl degradation of a HEMA-free all-in-one adhesive bonded to enamel and dentin following two air-blowing techniques.	Phase-separation within HEMA-free all-in-one dental adhesives may result in the entrapment of droplets within the adhesive resin. Strongly air-blowing prior to polymerization, can remove most of these droplets. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effect these droplets may have on the resistance of the adhesive-tooth interface to NaOCl degradation.
Factors associated with renal cortical echogenicity.	We studied the causes of renal cortical echogenicity (RCE). Its bilateral average value (AvRCE) and the left renal cortex/spleen echo ratios (RCSplE) were determined among 22 workers exposed to industrial solvents and 19 controls. Men had a higher AvRCE than women (p = 0.006). Current exposure to solvents increased AvRCE (p = 0.024), as did any exposure to aliphatic solvents (p < 0.001). AvRCE had a significant negative correlation with liver transaminases AST, ALT and GGT and with serum triglycerides. RCSplE correlated positively with AST, ALT and GGT, with total serum cholesterol and with diastolic blood pressure. Besides renal structural changes, RCE may be influenced by renal flow effects and the presence of macromolecules in renal vessels and tubular systems. Incidentally-found altered RCE may warrant the workout of occupational exposure history and general medical investigation if no kidney disease is known to exist.
Hearing loss in workers exposed to toluene and noise.	In this study we investigated the risk of hearing loss among workers exposed to both toluene and noise. We recruited 58 workers at an adhesive materials manufacturing plant who were exposured to both toluene and noise [78.6-87.1 A-weighted decibels; dB(A)], 58 workers exposed to noise only [83.5-90.1 dB(A)], and 58 administrative clerks [67.9-72.6 dB(A)] at the same company. We interviewed participants to obtain sociodemographic and employment information and performed physical examinations, including pure-tone audiometry tests between 0.5 and 6 kHz. A contracted laboratory certified by the Council of Labor in Taiwan conducted on-site toluene and noise exposure measurements. The prevalence of hearing loss of >or=25 dB in the toluene plus noise group (86.2%) was much greater than that in the noise-only group (44.8%) and the administrative clerks (5.0%) (p<0.001). The prevalence rates were 67.2, 32.8, and 8.3% (p<0.001), respectively, when 0.5 kHz was excluded from the estimation. Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that the toluene plus noise group had an estimated risk for hearing loss>or=25 dB, 10.9 times higher than that of the noise-only group. The risk ratio dropped to 5.8 when 0.5 kHz was excluded from the risk estimation. Hearing impairment was greater for the pure-tone frequency of 1 kHz than for that of 2 kHz. However, the mean hearing threshold was the poorest for 6 kHz, and the least effect was observed for 2 kHz. Our results suggest that toluene exacerbates hearing loss in a noisy environment, with the main impact on the lower frequencies.
Estimating risk during showering exposure to VOCs of workers in a metal-degreasing facility.	The incremental risk of workers in a metal-degreasing facility exposed to volatile organic compounds (VOCs) present in the water supply during showering was estimated. A probabilistic and worst-case approach using specific-site concentration data and a generalized multipathway exposure model was applied. Estimates of hazard index and lifetime cancer risk were analyzed for each chemical and each route of exposure (inhalation and dermal absorption). The results showed that dermal exposure to trichloroethylene (TCE) and tetrachloroethylene (perchloroethylene, PCE) represented the main contribution to total risk. Although the inhalation route did not produce significant exposure, it was mainly influenced by the liquid flow rate of the shower. Lower values of this parameter during showering resulted in a significant reduction of both carcinogenic and noncarcinogenic risk, while decreasing water temperature produced a minimal effect on exposure by this pathway. The results obtained in the present study indicated that significant exposures of workers may be produced during showering in metal degreasing installations where releases to water of VOCs occur. A sensitivity analysis was developed for investigating the effect of scenario parameters on exposure. Although site-specific data were employed, the exposure of workers was assessed in a model scenario and thus the quantification of risk is associated with uncertainty. Considering that occupational exposure to organic solvents of workers in metal-degreasing facilities may also be significant, risk assessment must be included in the planning of this kind of industrial installation.
Bias and random errors in historical data of exposure to organic solvents.	The biases and random errors in data from industrial hygiene measurements have been evaluated. Such data are often used for exposure assessment in epidemiologic studies by people who are not professional industrial hygienists. The quality of such data is, therefore, of paramount importance. Data sets from two investigations of the exposure to organic solvents in the same industry have been analyzed. The study shows that the errors and analysis of field samples are larger than errors determined from laboratory data but smaller than errors from other sources. One exception, in which laboratory errors are large, is when data originate from different ways of determining recovery. Very large biases may arise for certain combinations of analytes and extraction liquid when the "equilibrium method" is used. The data sets from the two investigations had a bias, which was as large as a factor of 5 to 10. This bias is believed to be caused by use of two different sampling strategies. In all industrial hygiene data, large random errors are embedded because of day-to-day variations in exposure levels; therefore, the data are mostly used grouped into three classes of low, medium, and high exposure. To do so is meaningful, as a large amount of data will compensate for misclassifications. But a large amount of data cannot compensate for the bias introduced when merging data generated under different sampling strategies. Data describing the same object, but originating from different sampling strategies, should not be pooled without proper tests, which show that data are comparable.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Exposure to organic solvents and adverse pregnancy outcome.	In a large case-control study (n = 1,926) of spontaneous abortion (SAB), exposure to solvents was ascertained by a telephone interview that asked about occupational use of 18 specific solvents or products, as well as an open-ended "other" solvent category. The adjusted odds ratio for use of any solvent was 1.1 (0.8, 1.5). Solvents for which at least a doubled crude risk of SAB was found included perchlorethylene (OR = 4.7, 95% CI = 1.1, 21.1), trichloroethylene (OR = 3.1, CI = 0.9, 10.4), and paint thinners (OR = 2.3, CI = 1.0, 5.1). Comparing exposure greater than 10 hours per week versus less did not show consistent dose-response effects. By solvent class, an association was seen with aliphatic solvents (adjusted OR = 1.8, 95% CI = 1.1, 3.0), but there was no dose-response effect by hours of use. Household use of solvent-containing products was generally not strongly associated with SAB, nor did it appear to confound the association seen with occupational use. From this and other studies, occupational exposure to at least some solvents appears associated with SAB. The associations of solvent exposure and fetal growth among liveborn offspring of controls was also examined.
Exposure to organic solvents and neuropsychological dysfunction: a study on monozygotic twins.	Twenty one monozygotic twins exposed to organic solvents were compared with their non-exposed cotwins by performance in psychological tests. A further 28 monozygotic twin pairs were examined as a reference group. The study used 11 tests, 10 of which had shown an effect in previous studies on the results of exposure to solvents. Paired comparisons of the test scores showed the exposed twins to have lower performance in associative learning, digit span, and block design. These results agree with two previous studies that used a similar set of tests. Contrary to some other studies, psychomotor speed was not affected, but the results indicated a marginal effect on the control of hand movements. Further comparison of subgroups with a low and a high exposure showed the prevalence of subtle neuropsychological dysfunction to be greater among the more exposed twins.
Cerebral symptoms in 3,387 men and occupational exposure to organic solvents. An epidemiological study]	In The Copenhagen Male Study, an epidemiological study comprising 3,387 men aged 53 to 75 years, 3,303 men with valid questionnaire answers to questions on occupational organic solvents exposure, four cerebral symptoms and current work status were examined. Two hundred and ninety-five men had been occupationally exposed to mixed organic solvents for a period of five years or more. Among the exposed persons, 178 had retired, while 117 were still gainfully employed. The exposed men in both groups had highly significantly more complaints of decreased concentration and defective memory. Among the exposed retired men a higher prevalence of headache was found. Among the exposed men who were still employed a trend towards a higher prevalence of vertigo was found. This study was conducted within a cardiovascular study with no focus on the relationship between organic solvent exposure and cerebral symptoms, a design reducing the risk of overreporting. If overreporting was responsible for the differences found between solvent exposed and unexposed a similar pattern for reporting of acute and chronic symptoms should be expected. This was not the case. Our results support the hypothesis, that occupational exposure to organic solvents for a period of five years or more increases the risk of developing persistent defective memory and decrease in concentration.
Lung function and bronchial reactivity in asthmatics during exposure to volatile organic compounds.	The purpose of the present study was to investigate whether vapors of organic solvents at low concentrations could exert an adverse effect in the lower airways. Under controlled conditions in a climate chamber, 11 persons with bronchial hyperreactivity to histamine and bronchial asthma were exposed for 90 min to a mixture of organic solvents at levels of zero, 2.5, and 25 mg/m3. During exposure to 25 mg/m3 a decrease in FEV1 to 90.7% of baseline value was measured. This was significantly different from the initial value (p less than 0.05), but not significantly different from the value found after sham exposure (FEV1, 97.4% of initial value). The decline in FEV1 during exposure to 25 mg/m3 was most pronounced in persons with high bronchial sensitivity. No changes were found in histamine reactivity after exposure, and no late reactions were registered. Ratings of discomfort showed different individual patterns ranging from no response to reactions towards both of the concentrations. The ratings indicated development of tolerance during exposure. Volatile organic compounds in concentrations found in both the work and the home environments may influence lung function and are probably of importance as bronchial irritants.
Push-out bond strength of Resilon/Epiphany self-etch to intraradicular dentin after retreatment: a preliminary study.	Retreatment procedures might affect the adhesion capability of refilling materials to dentinal walls. The purpose of this study was to compare the effect of different retreatment techniques on bond strength of Resilon (Resilon Research LLC, Madison, CT)/Epiphany (Pentron Clinical Technologies, LLC, Wallingford, CT) self-etch (SE) with radicular dentin after canal reobturation.
Bimodal distribution of sensitivity to SCE induction by diepoxybutane in human lymphocytes. I. Correlation with chromosomal aberrations.	We carried out a cross-sectional analysis of sister-chromatid exchanges (SCEs) and chromosomal aberrations induced by diepoxybutane (DEB) in lymphocyte cultures from 58 normal blood donors. DEB-induced SCE frequencies were measured in all subjects and chromosomal aberrations in 18. Analysis of variance was used to assess the contributions of exposure to organic solvents, age, smoking history, alcohol and coffee consumption, and red and white blood cell counts to variations in DEB-induced SCEs. In 10 individuals, the epoxide-detoxifying enzyme, glutathione (GSH)-S-transferase mu, was also measured. We observed a bimodal distribution of DEB-induced SCEs in the study population. Approx. 24% of the individuals were twice as sensitive to the induction of SCEs by DEB as the remaining 76%. Lymphocytes from persons sensitive to SCE induction by DEB contained a 4.4-fold increase in the number of DEB-induced chromatid deletions and exchanges. Within sensitive and resistant groups, significant interindividual variations in DEB-induced SCE frequencies were noted. Cigarette smoking was weakly associated with lower SCE frequencies within each group. Genetic deficiency in GSH-S-transferase mu was not correlated with increased sensitivity to SCE induction by DEB. Sensitivity to induction of SCEs by DEB can be rapidly determined and may be a marker of sensitivity to the induction of genotoxicity by certain classes of mutagens.
Human solvent exposure. Factors influencing the pharmacokinetics and acute toxicity.	The purpose of this review has been to discuss human and environmental factors which may influence the acute irritative and neurotoxic effects of organic solvents. The review is based on a field study and on four human experimental studies. Several studies have shown that printers and other workers exposed to mixtures of solvents experience an increased frequency of work related irritative and neurological symptoms although the exposure has been far below the occupational exposure limits. A series of controlled human exposure studies was carried out. Different groups of persons were exposed to the most frequent solvent, toluene. Toluene in alveolar air and the urinary excretion of the metabolites were measured and the acute effects of toluene were assessed by the performance in a series of test of the perceptual and psychomotor functions as well as a standardized registration of annoyance and symptoms. The pharmacokinetics of toluene is complex and there is a large individual variation in the excretion of the metabolites. This variation can only to a limited extend be related to known variables. Intake of alcohol during exposure inhibits the metabolism of toluene and increases the internal dose. Normal therapeutic doses of cimetidine or propranolol have no measurable effect on toluene metabolism. Exposure to 100 ppm during 7 h causes irritation in the eyes and airways as well as feeling of intoxication, dizziness, and headache. There are signs of impairment in the performance in test concerning visual perception, colour vision, vigilance as well as the psychomotor functions. However, the influence on the performance tests was not seen in all studies. Variations in the air concentration of toluene with peaks op to 300 ppm causes fluctuation in the alveolar concentrations, but no acute effect of these peaks or of increased physical activity during exposure could be detected. However, the importance of peek concentrations and of workload for the development of chronic solvent encephalopathy is still unknown. The influence of a 9-25 years occupational exposure to solvents was investigated. A group of printers occupationally exposed to mixtures of solvents were compared with a matched unexposed control group. There was no difference between printers and controls in the performance in the psychological test, but in two of the tests there were tendencies to increased sensitivity to toluene in the group of printers. It is concluded that exposure to toluene corresponding to the occupational limit in several countries cause irritative and prenarcotic symptoms and possibly a lowered performance.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The presence of urinary cellular sediment and albuminuria in newspaper pressworkers exposed to solvents.	To investigate the relationship between exposure to organic solvents and the presence of increased urinary cellular sediment, we conducted a cross-sectional study of 215 newspaper pressroom workers who were exposed to solvent and lubricant mixtures. Thirty-two compositors were surveyed as referents. Industrial hygiene measurements showed low-level airborne exposures to organic solvents (primarily naphthas) and minimal airborne exposure to glycol ethers. There was a high prevalence of solvent-related dermatitis indicating there was significant dermal exposure to these substances. Pressworkers were exposed to solvent mixtures that were associated with dose-related increases in leukocyturia alone or in urinary cellular sediment (erythrocyturia and/or leukocyturia). The presence of urinary cellular sediment was associated with increasing frequency of use of five particular organic solvent mixtures. These results suggest that the increase in urinary cellular sediment may be due, at least in part, to the effects of solvents on the kidney. Consistent with this hypothesis, 16% of pressmen and no compositors were found to have primarily low-grade albuminuria detectable by dipstick. Workers with urinary cellular sediment were significantly more likely to have detectable albuminuria. Albuminuria was more likely to occur with increased frequency of use of four particular solvent mixtures. The presence of urinary cellular sediment was less likely to occur with occasional use of analgesics suggesting a possible etiologic role for acute or chronic urinary tract inflammation.
Exposure to iodomethane and dichloromethane associated with a confusional state.	Dichloromethane and iodomethane are colorless relatively volatile liquids, which are used as solvents in chemical manufacturing processes. The major route of exposure is via inhalation and to a lesser extent through the skin and digestive tract. Both substances are characterized by significant neurotoxic effects. A 37-year-old chemist subjected to long-term inhalation exposure to both substances had been experiencing headaches, dizziness and fatigue for about 5 years. After an exceptional acute exposure, the man developed ataxia, increasing inhibition and a confusional and delirious state. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of his brain in the acute state demonstrated the presence of a T2-hyperintense lesion in the splenium of the corpus callosum, suggestive as myelinolysis. On MRI 16 days later, the MRI changes had completely resolved and the clinical picture had improved significantly. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first published report of a case of "reversible focal splenial lesion syndrome of the corpus callosum", which was likely caused by industrial toxic substances.
Occupational solvent exposure and cognition: does the association vary by level of education?	Chronic occupational solvent exposure is associated with long-term cognitive deficits. Cognitive reserve may protect solvent-exposed workers from cognitive impairment. We tested whether the association between chronic solvent exposure and cognition varied by educational attainment, a proxy for cognitive reserve.
Toxic hepatitis in occupational exposure to solvents.	The liver is the main organ responsible for the metabolism of drugs and toxic chemicals, and so is the primary target organ for many organic solvents. Work activities with hepatotoxins exposures are numerous and, moreover, organic solvents are used in various industrial processes. Organic solvents used in different industrial processes may be associated with hepatotoxicity. Several factors contribute to liver toxicity; among these are: species differences, nutritional condition, genetic factors, interaction with medications in use, alcohol abuse and interaction, and age. This review addresses the mechanisms of hepatotoxicity. The main pathogenic mechanisms responsible for functional and organic damage caused by solvents are: inflammation, dysfunction of cytochrome P450, mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress. The health impact of exposure to solvents in the workplace remains an interesting and worrying question for professional health work.
Self-assessment of hearing status and risk of noise-induced hearing loss in workers in a rolling stock plant.	Noise measurements and questionnaire inquiries were carried out for 124 workers of a rolling stock plant to develop a hearing conservation program. On the basis of that data, the risk of noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) was evaluated. Additionally, the workers' hearing ability was assessed with the (modified) Amsterdam inventory for auditory disability and handicap, (m)AIADH. The workers had been exposed to noise at A-weighted daily noise exposure levels of 74-110 dB for 1-40 years. Almost one third of the workers complained of hearing impairment and the (m)AIADH results showed some hearing difficulties in over half of them. The estimated risk of hearing loss over 25 dB in the frequency range of 3-6 kHz was 41-50% when the standard method of predicting NIHL specified in Standard No. ISO 1999:1990 was used. This risk increased to 50-67% when noise impulsiveness, coexposure to organic solvents, elevated blood pressure and smoking were included in calculations.
Ototoxic substances at the workplace: a brief update.	Ototoxic chemicals can impair the sense of hearing and balance. Lately, efforts have been intensified to compile evidence-based lists of workplace agents with ototoxic properties. This article gives a rough overview of the latest relevant publications, which confirm that toluene, styrene, and lead should receive particular attention as ototoxic substances at the workplace. Moreover, there is sufficient evidence that occupational exposure to trichloroethylene, mercury, carbon monoxide, and carbon disulfide can affect the ear. Based on the existing information, industrial hygienists should make sure that occupational health professionals and the workforce are made aware of the risks posed by ototoxic substances; support their replacement or new technical measures to reduce exposure; make these substances a part of regular screening, develop tools that can early diagnose chemically induced hearing impairment, and investigate further into the ototoxic properties of these substances. Further research should focus on quantifying the combined effects of ototoxic substances and noise.
Effects of exposure to mixed organic solvents on blood pressure in non-smoking women working in a pharmaceutical company.	Some studies suggest that exposure to industrial solvents can affect blood pressure. The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of a mixture of organic solvents on blood pressure in women working in a pharmaceutical company in Iran. Four hundred and thirty-three women were included in the study. Women working in packing units (group 1) were not exposed to the mixture of organic solvents, women in new laboratory units (group 2) were exposed to the mixture within the permitted range and women working in old laboratory units (group 3) were exposed to the mixture above the permitted limit. We compared systolic and diastolic blood pressures (SBP & DBP) and prevalence of hypertension and pre-hypertension among groups. The results revealed a significant difference in SBP and pre-hypertension (p<0.001) and hypertension (p<0.05) prevalence between the exposed and the control group, but DBP did not differ significantly. Logistic regression analysis showed a significant association between hypertension and exposure to mixed solvents. Odds ratio for hypertension in the group 2 and group 3 (exposed) workers was 2.36 and 3, respectively, compared to controls. Our results suggest that exposure to a mixture of organic solvents may increase SBP and hypertension and pre-hypertension prevalence in drug manufacture workers. Therefore, more attention should be paid to workers that work in such settings by periodically measuring blood pressure and implementing accurate and comprehensive programs to reduce exposure to organic solvents.
Occupational causes of testicular cancer in adults.	Testicular cancer is one of the commonest cancers in men of working age, and is increasing in incidence in Europe and North America. One suggested mechanism of causation is that there is impaired differentiation of germ cells in the pre- or perinatal period, followed by malignant transformation in later life, possibly by a hormonal mechanism. Endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) have been a major focus of interest for etiological research into testicular cancer because they interact with various hormonal pathways. Several EDCs including bisphenol A, phthalates, metals, polychlorinated biphenyls, and organochlorines have been investigated, but there are few studies and those that exist have not been able to assess exposure well. In addition, several studies, particularly those with better exposure assessment, have suggested that workers in electrical occupations have increased risks of testicular cancer. Electromagnetic radiation may have subthermal effects or may disrupt hormone release. Chronodisruption such as due to shift-work could potentially increase the risk of testicular cancer via disruption of hormonal cycles, but only one study has so far investigated this possibility. Lastly, solvent exposure, particularly to dimethylformamide, has been suggested to be associated with testicular cancer, but almost all these studies are based on job title only, with no specific assessment of solvent exposure. In conclusion, there is little evidence available on which to base definitive statements about occupational causes of testicular cancer. Future studies need to improve exposure assessment and develop ways to adjust for possible prenatal factors.
Assessment of the immunotoxic potential of trichloroethylene and perchloroethylene in rats following inhalation exposure.	The immunotoxic potential of trichloroethylene (TCE) and perchloroethylene (PERC) was assessed after inhalation exposure through the evaluation of the antibody forming cell (AFC) response to sheep red blood cells (SRBC). Female Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to TCE or PERC vapor at 0, 100, 300, or 1000 ppm for 6h/day, 5 days/week for 4 weeks (20 exposure days). Additional 0 ppm control groups were included and were dosed with cyclophosphamide via intraperitoneal injection to serve as positive immunosuppressive controls in the SRBC assay. Additional end-points evaluated included liver, kidney, spleen, and thymus weights, hematology, cellular differentials in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, histopathology of select tissues, and assessment of the phagocytic activity of pulmonary alveolar macrophage (PERC only). Exposure to the high concentration of TCE (1000 ppm) resulted in increases in relative liver and kidney weights and suppression of AFC responses (AFC/spleen and AFC/10(6) spleen cells) by  70%, while no treatment-related effects were noted at 100 and 300 ppm. Animals exposed to PERC at levels of 300 or 1000 ppm had statistically significant increases in relative liver weights that were accompanied by very slight hypertrophy of the centrilobular hepatocytes. Animals exposed to PERC did not demonstrate a treatment-related effect on the AFC response and no effect was noted on the phagocytic activity of pulmonary alveolar macrophages. The results of these studies indicate that TCE had immunotoxic potential only at high exposure concentrations (1000 ppm), while PERC, at similar exposure concentrations, did not display any evidence of immunotoxicity. 
Risk of childhood leukaemia and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma after parental occupational exposure to solvents and other agents: the SETIL Study.	In the context of the Italian Multicentric Epidemiological Study on Risk Factors for Childhood Leukaemia and Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma (SETIL), the risk of childhood cancer was investigated in relation to parental occupational exposures.
Occupational exposure to chlorinated and petroleum solvents and mycosis fungoides.	To evaluate the potential association between occupational exposure to chlorinated and petroleum solvents and mycosis fungoides (MF).
Psychomotor effects of mixed organic solvents on rubber workers.	Exposure to organic solvents is common among workers.
Liver damage in automotive and industrial workers of the glass.	High doses of organic solvents can cause hepatic disease. We investigated whether exposure to low doses of solvents in automotive and industrial workers may lead to changes in liver tests.
Pesticides, chemical and industrial exposures in relation to systemic lupus erythematosus.	Growing evidence suggests exposure to chemicals and industrial pollutants may increase risk of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Here we review research on SLE associations with occupational and industrial exposures, primarily drawing on studies in human populations and summarizing epidemiologic research published in the past decade. The association of occupational silica exposure with SLE is well established, but key questions remain, including the required dose and susceptibility factors, and SLE risk due to other silicate exposures. Research on SLE and other exposures is less well developed, though several potential associations merit further consideration because of the consistency of preliminary human findings, experimental animal research, and biologic plausibility. These include pesticides and solvents, for which experimental findings also support investigation of specific agents, including organochlorines and trichloroethylene. Experimental findings and biologic plausibility suggest research on SLE and occupational exposure to hydrocarbons (i.e. mineral oils) is warranted, especially given the widespread exposures in the population. Experimental and limited human findings support further investigation of SLE related to mercury exposure, especially in dental occupations. Research on environmental risk factors in risk-enriched cohorts (family-based) is recommended, as is further investigation of exposures in relation to intermediate markers of effect (e.g. antinuclear antibodies), clinical features (e.g. nephritis), and outcomes.
Regional cerebral blood flow at the time of diagnosis of chronic toxic encephalopathy induced by organic-solvent exposure and after the cessation of exposure.	Regional cerebral blood flow was measured in patients with the diagnosis of chronic toxic encephalopathy induced by exposure to organic solvents. Measurements were made at the time of diagnosis and 24-84 months after the cessation of exposure. During the follow-up the patients were carefully examined for other possible causes of brain dysfunction. Comparisons were made to unexposed and solvent-exposed referents. At the first examination the patients had a 7% lower mean flow level than the unexposed referents and a 5% lower level than the exposed workers. The largest flow differences were seen in the frontotemporal areas. At the follow-up, the difference in the mean flow level between the patients and referents was no longer significant. Regionally, the flow had increased, especially in areas which initially showed the most pronounced decreases. There was a significant negative correlation between the initial cerebral blood flow level and the degree of normalization of the flow level at follow-up.
Cytogenetic and hematological effects in plastics workers exposed to styrene.	For 20 glass-reinforced plastics workers exposed to styrene and 22 unexposed referents, the frequency and size distribution of micronuclei were determined for lymphocytes stimulated with phytohemagglutinin or pokeweed mitogen, and white blood cell counts were made. Furthermore, chromosome aberrations were scored for 11 of the exposed subjects and 15 of the referents. The mean level of styrene in the breathing zone of the workers was 56 mg/m3. Workers exposed to styrene did not show an increase in any of the cytogenetic end points studied when the effect of age and smoking was allowed for in a multiple regression analysis. A significant 30% increase in the number of peripheral monocytes was observed for the exposed workers. No correlations between the cytogenetic and hematological tests on one hand and the length of exposure time on the other could be detected.
Malignant lymphomas and occupational exposures.	The effects of potential risk factors for Hodgkin's disease (HD) and for non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL) were evaluated in a case-referent study encompassing 54 cases of HD, 106 cases of NHL, and 275 referents, all alive. Exposure information was obtained by questionnaires posted to the subjects. Crude rate ratios were increased for various occupational exposures including solvents, welding, wood preservatives, phenoxy acids, and fresh wood (sawmill workers, lumberjacks, paper pulp workers). After further analyses based on logistic regression occupational exposures to welding and creosote remained as significant risk factors for HD. For NHL, occupational exposures to solvents, phenoxy acids, and creosote but also work as carpenter or cabinet maker and contacts with pets (other than dogs, cats, and birds) were associated with significantly increased risks.
Deaths from asphyxiation and poisoning at work in the United States 1984-6.	A review of 4756 deaths investigated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) in 1984-6 found 233 deaths from asphyxiation and poisoning, excluding asphyxiations from trench cave-ins. The highest rates were in the oil and gas industry and in utilities. Toxic gases were the largest group (65) followed by simple asphyxiants (48), mechanical causes (42), and solvents (35). Deaths from solvents were significantly more likely in young workers. Nine deaths were caused by improper air supply to respirators and five by recreational inhalation of gas or vapours. Of the 146 deaths in confined spaces, only 12% were in rescuers, fewer than previously reported.
Prenarcotic and neuraesthenic symptoms among Dutch workers exposed to organic solvents.	A population of 379 Dutch workers exposed to organic solvents was compared with a non-exposed population of 443 workers with regard to the prevalence of prenarcotic and neuraesthenic symptoms. Participants completed a questionnaire to collect information about their occupational history, exposure to organic solvents, and the occurrence of symptoms. The results of the study indicated that workers exposed to solvents have a higher reporting rate of prenarcotic symptoms than workers not exposed to solvents. The prevalence of chronic neurotoxic effects, however, in the form of neuraesthenic symptoms was only weakly associated with reported exposure to organic solvents. The influence of work stress in the development of these symptoms is perhaps more important than the role of exposure to organic solvents. It is concluded that the organic solvent syndrome type I, as defined by an international workshop, is not an important health hazard among Dutch painters.
Encephalopathy and polyneuropathy induced by organic solvents.	Twenty-six patients with previous heavy exposure to organic solvents were admitted to a neurological department during a 1 1/2 year period. They were studied with a battery of tests, including general medical and neurological examinations, neuropsychological tests, electroencephalography (EEG) and neurography with electromyography (EMG), and cerebral computerized tomography (CT). The presenting complaints were compatible with encephalopathy and/or polyneuropathy. When patients with alternative diagnosis were excluded, 17 patients (65%) of the initial group were diagnosed as belonging to the organic solvent syndrome. These patients had a mean time of solvent exposure of 23.9 years, ranging from one to 45 years. EEG and cerebral CT showed minor deviations only as did the neurological examination. These methods proved nevertheless of importance in excluding alternative etiologies. Neuropsychological test performances were markedly reduced, especially short-term memory. All patients were injured by occupational exposure to organic solvents, most often from painting and lacquering. Encephalopathy was a more frequent finding than polyneuropathy, and most often classified as slight or marked, whereas severe encephalopathy was not found in the present group.
Electroneurographic findings in patients with solvent induced central nervous system dysfunction.	The function of the peripheral nervous system was examined in a group of 32 men aged 30-65 (mean 49) with diagnosed solvent induced chronic toxic encephalopathy. The subjects were examined at the time of diagnosis and 26 were re-examined after a follow up period of 22-72 months (mean 40) and compared with a group of 50 unexposed male workers aged 27-64 (mean 42) with appropriate adjustment for age. All subjects were carefully scrutinised for alcohol abuse and other neurological diseases. The results of motor fibre neurography disclosed no difference between the groups. Nevertheless, a significant decrease in motor conduction velocity was found in the patients at follow up. Sensory fibre neurography showed signs of slight axonal degeneration with significantly decreased sensory nerve action potential amplitudes in the median and sural nerves; these amplitudes increased during follow up. The duration of sensory nerve action potentials was longer in the exposed group for the median and the sural nerves. The percentage of late components was significantly higher in the median nerve. The warm-cold sensitivity in the exposed group also indicated a slight sensory dysfunction with statistically significant wider detection limits.
Increase in the colony count in drinking water tanks caused by solvents from the coating material]	As a freshly coated storage tank was put into operation a permanent colony increase in the drinking water (up to 7400 cfu/ml) could be detected. By chlorine dosage (30 mg/l) colony counts were reduced. From a second storage tank which had been coated at the same time bituminous coating material and air samples could be taken. After the exposure of the bituminous coating material in aqua bidest. 48 organic compounds were found by GC/MS-analysis. The main compounds were xylene, ethylbenzene and 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene. These compounds were also found by GC-investigations of the air-samples. The dependence between the used organic solvents and the colony increase could be demonstrated by biodegradation tests of solvent compounds. It was found that about 50 per cent of the identified compounds could be degraded by microorganisms and therefore caused a colony increase in drinking water.
Toxic neuropathy--an overview.	The involvement of the nervous system in systemic intoxication offers diagnostic and investigative challenges to the occupational health team. Often early evidence of neurotoxicity is vague, of a highly subjective nature and may be complicated by the presence of neuropathies due to other causes such as diabetes mellitus or exposure to multiple neurotoxins such as lead and solvents. The variety of agents producing neurotoxicity is wide, including heavy metals, organophosphates, acrylamide and its analogs, industrial solvents, therapeutic agents and plant alkaloids. The identification of neurotoxic substances requires well controlled epidemiologic studies of humans, including electrodiagnostic testing and well planned experimental animal studies. The latter include consideration of choice of animal species, routes of administration, duration of exposure, clinical evaluation, electrodiagnostic testing, morphologic description of the damage produced and its distribution, and the recognition of the potential for intercurrent naturally occurring neuropathologic processes. The aim of this discussion is to give an overview of these and other factors involved in the assessment of a neurotoxic potential.
"Chronic painter's syndrome". A reanalysis of psychological test data in a group of diagnosed cases, based on comparisons with matched controls.	Twenty solvent-exposed workers, most of them painters, had been diagnosed as cases of toxic encephalopathy in 1978/79. Two years later they were re-examined with an extensive battery of neuropsychological tests. Their performance was unchanged on retesting. We have now compared their test results with those of non-exposed control subjects. Previous impressions of significant intellectual impairment in the solvent-exposed patients could not be confirmed when the influence of age, education, and intelligence was taken into consideration. The present group with presumed toxic encephalopathy is assumed to be representative of other patients who were similarly diagnosed in our department. The presently reanalyzed cases had been diagnosed as brain damaged and reported as such in the literature. Thus, they may have contributed to the formation of the concept of the "chronic painters' syndrome" with dementia.
Power spectrum analysis of EEG at diagnosis and follow up of patients with solvent induced chronic toxic encephalopathy.	Electroencephalographic changes have been studied in a group of 32 men aged 30-65 (mean 49) with diagnosed chronic toxic encephalopathy. The group had been carefully scrutinised for other possible causes of brain dysfunction and the diagnosis was based on neuraesthenic symptoms and pathological psychometric performance. The EEGs were recorded from four areas of the brain and the power spectrum analysed. Comparisons have been made with a group of 50 healthy male workers with no occupational exposure to solvents. For 24 of the 32 patients a follow up EEG recording was made after 17-75 months (mean 33). The results showed a doubling of the EEG power in the patients for all four recording channels with a significant reduction at follow up but not to the level of the control group. No exposure effect relation could be established. Acute exposure at the time of the first recording, exposure free, or follow up time did not influence the results. The frequency of the dominant EEG activity and the relative frequency distribution were equal in the two groups and did not change during the follow up period. Five of the 32 subjects took benzodiazepine drugs regularly and they had greater total power in all four recording channels compared with the other 27 patients; the difference was not statistically significant. The relative frequency distribution showed less alpha- and more theta- and beta-power in these five subjects. A reduction in total power during follow up was also found in the subgroup that took benzodiazepines.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A proportional mortality ratio study of workers in a construction equipment and diesel engine manufacturing plant.	The mortality of 461 workers who were employed 10 or more years in a Midwest engine and construction equipment plant was examined, using the method of proportional mortality ratios. Both state and national deaths were used as the standard population. Major exposures in this plant included solvents, cutting oils, and metal fumes and dusts. However, precise exposure data were not available. Among white males, no significant deviations from expected deaths were found. Among black males, significant excess deaths were found for all malignant neoplasms combined, for cancer of the pancreas, and for non-Hodgkin's lymphomas. Proportional cancer mortality ratios produced similar results, although the excess of pancreatic cancer in blacks was only significant among those with 20 or more years of service. Although complete occupational histories were not available, these results may provide hypotheses for future studies of workers in heavy machinery production.
Chronic toxic encephalopathy in solvent-exposed painters in Denmark 1976-1980: clinical cases and social consequences after a 5-year follow-up.	On the basis of previous investigations from occupational medicine, neurology, and neuropyschology, a retrospective evaluation was made of 21 painters in whom chronic toxic encephalopathy following exposure to organic solvents had been diagnosed during a stay in the Neurology Department of Gentofte Hospital, Copenhagen, in the period 1976-1980. All the painters had given up their jobs for this reason. The assumption of a causal relationship between the exposure and the intellectual impairment was supported by a possible dose-effect relationship. The chronic toxic symptoms had considerable social consequences. Five years later, ten had not gotten other jobs. The lack of working ability was correlated to advancing age, increasing exposure, and increasing intellectual impairment. According to the results of the study, conditions at work places ought to be changed in such a way that harmful exposure can be prevented in the future.
Formaldehyde impairs memory, equilibrium, and dexterity in histology technicians: effects which persist for days after exposure.	Results of neurobehavioral testing in 305 histology technicians were studied by regression analysis with age, years of cigarette smoking, and hours per day of exposure to formaldehyde and to solvents as major independent variables. Increasing age was associated with poorer performance on visual memory, block design, trails, dexterity by pegboard, sharpened-Romberg, finger writing, as well as with longer choice reaction time. Increased daily hours of exposure to formaldehyde were correlated with reduced performance on story memory, visual memory, digit span, pegboard and sharpened-Romberg, as well as with errors on trails. Exposure to solvents was associated only with diminished recall of story.
Sleep apnoea and organic solvent exposure.	Fifteen patients referred for the evaluation of possible organic solvent encephalopathy were studied by clinical polysomnography. Seven had more than 30 apnoeas per night and an apnoea index of higher than 5, thus fulfilling the commonly used criteria of the sleep apnoea syndrome. Another group of eight workers exposed to trichlorethane, examined without prior knowledge of their individual symptoms, showed a significantly elevated number of sleep apnoeas compared with nine controls. The results indicate that organic solvent exposure can cause sleep apnoea.
Vibratory perception thresholds in shipyard workers exposed to solvents.	Vibratory perception thresholds were determined for 90 subjects working at a shipyard with industrial solvents. The duration of exposure varied from 1 to 44 years (mean 19.6 years). Four of the men but none of women had bilaterally significantly increased thresholds in the lower limbs. In addition, seven subjects had increased thresholds in the upper extremities only. Fifteen subjects were further examined at a neurophysiological laboratory to determine the degree of possible peripheral polyneuropathy. The following measurements were made at the laboratory: motor and sensory conduction velocities, electromyography and heart rate variation during normal and forced breathing. The laboratory investigations revealed abnormalities in most of the subjects with increased vibratory perception thresholds in the lower limbs. On the other hand the laboratory measurements were normal for all subjects with increased thresholds in the upper limbs only. It is concluded that when peripheral polyneuropathy is suspected, quantitative vibratory perception threshold measurement is an easily applicable screening method for selecting subjects for further laboratory investigations.
Case-control study of decaffeinated coffee consumption and pancreatic cancer.	The relationship between decaffeinated coffee consumption and pancreatic cancer was examined using data from a hospital-based case-control study of individuals aged 20-80 years in 18 hospitals in 6 United States cities, from January 1981 to December 1984. Among the males, 127 cases and 371 controls were examined, while for females, the figures were 111 and 325 for cases and controls, respectively. Decaffeinated coffee use was not associated with an increased risk of pancreatic cancer in males (odds ratio = 0.7 for 3 or more cups/day; 95% confidence interval = 0.4-1.4). For females, an elevated risk was seen for drinkers of 1-2 cups/day (odds ratio = 1.6; 95% confidence interval = 1.0-2.7), but this finding was of borderline significance and elevation in risk was not found for drinkers of 3 or more cups/day (odds ratio = 0.9; 95% confidence interval = 0.4-1.9). Cigarette smoking was significantly associated with pancreatic cancer in both males and females. Factors examined and not found to be related to pancreatic cancer included education, occupation, religion, marital status, alcohol drinking, saccharin use, height, weight 5 years before hospitalization, history of previous diseases, and residence.
Selected problems in the experimental evaluation of the skin-irritating effect of industrial substances]	Basing on the determination of ID50 and IT50 after Kligman and Wooding but involving our own modification, the primarily irritating effect of certain industrial substances on experimental animals' and humans' skin was comparatively evaluated. Mutual experimental studies have been carried out in Dermatological Clinics in Leipzig and Rostock and Dermatological Clinic at the Medical Academy of Ld. The results were found to be generally consistent in humans and animals. Extension of international cooperation and information and results on the determination of industrial substances adverse effects seem to be necessary.
Allergic contact dermatitis to ethylenediamine in skin grafts for burns]	A 49 years old patient who had been sensibilized with ethylendiamine in a previous work (furniture polishing) developed at his present work (casein production) an allergic contact dermatitis in large grafting areas of his lower limbs due to burning. The disease had exacerbations during the following months and cured with the suppression of the allergene.
Environmental hazards of interest to the forensic pathologist.	The hazards associated with occupational exposure to various workplace contaminants (lead, silica, etc.) have been known for a number of years. Until recently, the potential toxic effects of exposures on the male reproductive system had not been appreciated. This article not only discusses recent studies in that area, but gives clinical examples of how environmental exposures (water, soil, air, and dwellings) can affect various organs in the human body. Awareness that these injuries can occur without obvious relationship to these environmental exposures may help the forensic pathologist discover previously unsuspected hazards.
Sural nerve biopsies from workers with a history of chronic exposure to organic solvents and from normal control cases. Morphometric and ultrastructural studies.	An ultrastructural and morphometric study was performed on sural nerve biopsies of four industrial spray painters (35-59 years) and 11 controls (6-64 years). No difference could be shown in spray painters and age-matched controls as to the number of myelinated nerve fibres per area, their size distribution, variation of internodal length along single nerve fibres or the ratio between the number of myelin lamellae and the axon circumference. There was marked scattering of the two latter parameters in older exposed and and control individuals. The distribution of NADH2-tetrazolium reductase activity was similar in exposed and control cases. The general ultrastructural appearance of nodal-paranodal regions in controls conformed with that noted in experimental animals. The overall ultrastructural organization and age-related changes of nerves of exposed cases were similar to those of control cases except for a presence of paranodal axonal mitochondria which contained glycogen-like particles in exposed cases. In one exposed case abundant dispersed or clustered glycogen-like particles were seen in the paranodal axoplasm. These findings are suggested to be an effect of chronic exposure to organic solvent vapours. Ageing seems, however, to have a much greater impact on the morphology of the sural nerve fibre than occupational exposure to organic solvent.
The nitroblue tetrazolium reduction test in workers exposed to benzene and its homologues.	In 106 workers aged 18 to 56 years, occupationally exposed to organic solvents of paints and varnishes containing benzene, toluene and xylene for 1 to 122 months, the spontaneous and the stimulated reduction of nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT) in neutrophils was estimated. In all the subjects studied, both the spontaneous and the stimulated reduction of NBT was increased. However, after longer occupational exposure to benzene and its homologues the stimulated NBT reduction decreases. The negative correlation between the number of NBT-positive stimulated neutrophils and the exposure time was noted. The stimulated NBT test may be of value for industrial health control in the estimation of the toxic effects of the above compounds on the neutrophil system.
Spontaneous abortions among factory workers. The importance of gravidity control.	The purpose of this study were twofold. First to demonstrate the impact of gravidity control on the crude odds ratio (OR), the risk estimate of the total number of spontaneous abortions among all chemically exposed women in comparison with non-exposed women. Second, to discuss whether the increased proportion of higher gravidities among the exposed subjects did compensate for an increased risk of spontaneous abortion provoked by the chemical exposure. The study included 262 factory workers occupationally exposed predominantly to organic solvents and 241 reference women who were socially comparable and relatively free from chemical exposure of their work. The subjects are included in a historical prospective survey of 6 730 women representing 12 selected occupations in the Danish county of Funen. The data were collected by postal questionnaires in May 1980. The crude OR of spontaneous abortions among factory workers was significantly increased, but when controlled for gravidity, it was no longer statistically significant. The childbearing behaviour of the two groups of women was compared in a logistic regression analysis which suggested that the increased proportion of higher gravidities among the factory workers was not only due to a compensatory behaviour. A desire for more children among the factory workers, or a less careful use of contraception compared to the reference group might explain the findings. Consequently, gravidity should probably be controlled.
Systemic side effects from the intrabiliary infusion of monooctanoin for the dissolution of gallstones.	Monooctanoin, a cholesterol gallstone solvent, has been gaining wide acceptance as an effective safe agent for dissolving retained common bile duct stones when infused into the biliary tract. A woman with choledocholithiasis who received infusions of this agent into the biliary tract on three different occasions developed systemic side effects on each occasion. The severity of the side effects necessitated discontinuation of monooctanoin therapy.
Correlation of occupation and karyotype in adults with acute nonlymphocytic leukemia.	Seventy-four adult patients with acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL) were classified retrospectively as to whether or not they had had occupational exposure to insecticides, chemicals and solvents, or petroleum products. Fifty-eight patients were considered nonexposed and 16 were considered exposed. The chromosome banding pattern was abnormal in 37 of the 74 patients (50%). Twenty-five of the 58 (43%) nonexposed patients had a clonal chromosome abnormality, compared with 12 of the 16 (75%) exposed patients (p = 0.02). Only 2 of 23 (8.7%) females with an abnormal karyotype were exposed, whereas 10 of 14 (71%) males with an abnormal karyotype were exposed. Either a -5/5q- or a -7/7q- was present in 67% of the exposed patients with a chromosome abnormality, compared to 28% of the aneuploid nonexposed patients. The -7/7q- abnormality was present in 7 of the 12 (58.3%) exposed patients, versus 5 of the 25 (20%) nonexposed patients with abnormal karyotypes (p less than 0.05). The -5/5q- anomaly was observed in 4 of the 12 (33%) exposed patients and in 4 of the 25 (16%) nonexposed abnormal patients. Our study supports the observation that a subset of patients with ANLL de novo have a history of occupational exposure and a unique pattern of chromosome abnormalities.
Malignant lymphoma and exposure to chemicals, especially organic solvents, chlorophenols and phenoxy acids: a case-control study.	A number of men with malignant lymphoma of the histiocytic type and previous exposure to phenoxy acids or chlorophenols were observed and reported in 1979. A matched case-control study has therefore been performed with cases of malignant lymphoma (Hodgkin's disease and non-Hodgkin lymphoma). This study included 169 cases and 338 controls. The results indicate that exposure to phenoxy acids, chlorophenols, and organic solvents may be a causative factor in malignant lymphoma. Combined exposure of these chemicals seemed to increase the risk. Exposure to various other agents was not obviously different in cases and in controls.
Industrial pollution by solvents with special reference to limited values for mixtures]	The report concerns the AA. experience in the field of pollution due to solvents, particularly in the following industries: shoe manufacturing, graphics and the production and application of paints. The exposure risk in these 3 indutries is quantitatively and qualitatively defined based on data obtained from the gas--chromatographic analysis of 238 work environment samples. The data are evaluated with reference to limit values established by the ACGIH, the Italian Society of Occupational Medicine and the Italian Society of Industrial Hygiene. In additon to the evaluation with respect to the TLV and VLP, the hygiene parameter of TLVs for mixtures is evaluated in the field of industrial hygiene.
Application of neurobehavioral tests in a manufacturing automotive parts factory]	Three neurobehavioral tests and a profile of mood states (POMS) test, which are included in the WHO neurobehavioral core test battery, were applied to 106 workers engaged in manufacturing automotive parts, especially for the purpose of determining the presence or absence of a significant difference in the score between a group of sixty-one workers chronically exposed to organic solvents and a group of forty-five workers unexposed. The scores of both pursuit-aiming and digit-symbol substitution tests were lower (P < 0.02 and P < 0.01, respectively, in analysis of covariance) in the group of exposed workers than in the group of unexposed workers. Furthermore, in the group of exposed workers, the pursuit-aiming and digit-symbol substitution scores showed a positive correlation (P < 0.05 and P < 0.01, respectively) to the fatigue score in the POMS test. On the other hand, the score of the digit span test showed no significant difference between the two groups. No significant correlation was found between the urinary hippuric acid level and the score of each of the three neurobehavioral tests. Therefore, among the exposed workers, the perceptual motor function evaluated in pursuit-aiming and digit-symbol tests seems to be affected. The neurobehavioral tests administered in this study are limited in number and in function, however, the comparison of their scores between the exposed and unexposed workers may suggest the presence of adversive effects of chronic exposure to organic solvents.
Hairy cell leukaemia, occupation, and smoking.	The roles of farm practices, occupational exposures to organic solvents, and ionizing radiation in the risk of hairy cell leukaemia (HCL) were examined in a French hospital-based multicentre case-control study including 291 cases (229 men and 62 women) and 541 controls (425 men and 116 women). No positive association was observed with occupations involving exposure to organic solvents or with self-declared exposures to solvents, but a significant association with self-reported exposure to petrol or diesel was found for men (OR = 1.5 CI95% [1.0-2.1]). No association with ionizing radiation was detected. Agriculture employment gave an odds ratio of 1.7 (CI95% [1.1-2.4]) for men and 2.7 (CI95% [1.1-6.7]) for women. Among men, the association seems to affect farmers rather than agricultural workers. Self-declared exposure to pesticides or bovine cattle breeding was related to HCL risk in both genders. Finally, a significant negative association with smoking was observed in men, with an inverse exposure-risk relationship odds ratios of 0.6, 0.5 and 0.2, respectively, for cumulative consumptions of < 10, 10-23 and > or = 24 pack-years), contrasting with an odds ratios clearly > 1 in women.
Scleroderma and occupational factors: a case-control study and analysis of literature]	The scientific literature concerning occupational factors associated with scleroderma consists mostly of case report type studies. We therefore undertook a case-control study in the Province of Trento using as data source the Hospital Records System. The annual rate of scleroderma incidence in the period considered (1976-1991) was 5.8 per million in females and 1.5 per million in males. A statistically significant association was observed (OR = 9.28, p = 0.039) in the population under study for occupational exposure to solvents. Also, an excess risk was observed in male subjects exposed to silica dust, even though the simultaneous exposure to other risk factors, such as hand-arm vibrations, makes it difficult to establish the specific contribution of silica dust exposure.
Acute toxicity of gasoline and some additives.	The acute toxicity of gasoline; its components benzene, toluene, and xylene; and the additives ethanol, methanol, and methyl tertiary butyl ether are reviewed. All of these chemicals are only moderately to mildly toxic at acute doses. Because of their volatility, these compounds are not extensively absorbed dermally unless the exposed skin is occluded. Absorption through the lungs and the gastrointestinal tract is quite efficient. After ingestion, the principal danger for a number of these chemicals, particularly gasoline, is aspiration pneumonia, which occurs mainly in children. It is currently not clear whether aspiration pneumonia would still be a problem if gasoline were diluted with ethanol or methanol. During the normal use of gasoline or mixtures of gasoline and the other solvents as a fuel, exposures would be much lower than the doses that have resulted in poisoning. No acute toxic health effects would occur during the normal course of using automotive fuels.
Exposure to methyl tert-butyl ether and benzene among service station attendants and operators.	Concerns for atmospheric pollution from auto exhaust have led to the blending of "oxygenates" with motor fuels. The most common oxygenate, methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE) is currently required within several metropolitan areas (Denver and Phoenix) in the range of 12% of the motor fuel. Amendments to the Clean Air Act may expand this requirement to as many as 44 other areas of the United States in the near future. In consideration of the magnitude of potential uncontrolled exposures from its extensive use and a related concern involving the potential influence of MTBE blending on exposures to other constituents of gasoline (particularly benzene), an evaluation of exposures among service station attendants and operators was undertaken at the request, and in cooperation with, the American Petroleum Institute during the latter part of 1990. For application of the survey results to a broad audience, three categories or types of service stations were identified with regard to MTBE use and exposure potential: a) service stations that do not use MTBE or use it only as an octane enhancer, b) service stations with seasonal requirements to use 12-15% MTBE (the Denver, Colorado, and Phoenix, Arizona, metropolitan areas), and c) service stations equipped with stage II (active) vapor recovery systems (several coastal areas, most notably Southern California). At the two sampled service stations that use only minimal amounts of MTBE (less than 1%), only 1 of 32 personal breathing zone (PBZ) samples from attendants was above the analytical limit of detection, reported at 0.16 ppm. The geometric mean concentration of benzene among this same population (n = 32) was 0.04 ppm.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Clinico-pathologic correlation of dementia produced by thinner and cocaine]	Industrial solvents mixed from thinner, used in paints, leathers, rubber, varnishes, have neurotoxic action. By laboral inhalation or spontaneously these are absorbed from the lungs, transported by blood and because of this high lipophilic section are retained within the lipid rich nervous system. Euphoric effects appear accompanied with visual and additive halucinations. In chronic abusers it produce schizophrenic-paranoid consequences with encephalic and peripheral neuronal and nervous fibers destruction, accompanied of blindness and paralysis. Cocaine is another neurotoxic drug. At first it produces euphoria, arterial hypertension and symptoms suggestive of underlying psychiatric diseases. The cocaine addicts often suffer depression, paranoia, hallucinations, seizures and suicidal ideation. The morphological base of the symptomatology is the encephalic and peripheral neuronal and nerve fibers destruction.
Review of epidemiologic studies of paternal occupational exposure and spontaneous abortion.	The question of whether paternal exposures influence risk of spontaneous abortion is of great public interest, with the possibility supported by laboratory investigations. Thirty-nine studies of male occupational exposure and risk of spontaneous abortion were examined, with the methods and results tabulated. Many of those reports were limited by exposure data based on maternal report of the father's job title or by potentially inaccurate paternal reports of spontaneous abortion, though the quality of more recent studies is markedly enhanced. Mercury has been implicated most strongly based on recent studies that included quantitative exposure estimates; a number of studies showing associations for exposure to anesthetic gases. Suggestive associations have also been found inconsistently for exposure to lead, rubber manufacturing, selected solvents, and some pesticides. Further study is encouraged, but with more intensive effort to measure accurately both spontaneous abortion and occupational exposures.
Toxic encephalopathy due to 1,1,1-trichloroethane exposure.	Twenty-eight workers with long-term repetitive high exposures to 1,1,1-trichloroethane were evaluated for complaints of short-term memory loss, disequilibrium, moodiness, irritability, and decreased ability to concentrate. As a group, they had significant deficits in memory, intermediate memory, rhythm, and speed as measured by the Luria-Nebraska Neuropsychological Battery. Platform posturography demonstrated deficits in vestibular, somatosensory, and ocular components of balance. The encephalopathic picture in these patients is similar to what has been described after exposure to other solvents.
Exposure to phenoxyacetic acids, chlorophenols, or organic solvents in relation to histopathology, stage, and anatomical localization of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.	Results on 105 cases with histopathologically confirmed non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) and 335 controls from a previously published case-control study on malignant lymphoma are presented together with some extended analyses. No occupation was a risk factor for NHL. Exposure to phenoxyacetic acids yielded, in the univariate analysis, an odds ratio of 5.5 with a 95% confidence interval of 2.7-11. Most cases and controls were exposed to a commercial mixture of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid. Exposure to chlorophenols gave an odds ratio of 4.8 (2.7-8.8) with pentachlorophenol being the most common type. Exposure to organic solvents yielded an odds ratio of 2.4 (1.4-3.9). These results were not significantly changed in the multivariate analysis. Dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane, asbestos, smoking, and oral snuff were not associated with an increased risk for NHL. The results regarding increased risk for NHL following exposure to phenoxyacetic acids, chlorophenols, or organic solvents were not affected by histopathological type, disease stage, or anatomical site of disease presentation. Median survival was somewhat longer in cases exposed to organic solvents than the rest. This was explained by more prevalent exposure to organic solvents in the group of cases with good prognosis NHL histopathology.
Peripheral sensory neuropathy associated with 1,1,1-trichloroethane.	A case is described of peripheral sensory neuropathy in a woman who had daily exposure to 1,1,1-trichloroethane, used as a degreasing agent. Although previous reviews of the health effects of 1,1,1-trichloroethane have not indicated long-term neurotoxicity, there are recent animal studies that suggest chronic central neurotoxic effects and previous case reports of peripheral neuropathy in three exposed workers in one plant. Our case provides additional evidence that 1,1,1-trichloroethane exposure may be associated with peripheral sensory neuropathy. Reporting of similar cases is encouraged and investigation of the neurotoxic effects of 1,1,1-trichloroethane is recommended.
Behavioral effects of exposure to organic solvents in Dutch painters.	The report describes the results of a cross-sectional study of solvent-exposed young and older Dutch painters and two age-matched control groups. Both traditional and computerized neurobehavioral tests were applied. The study did not detect any major differences between the two groups of painters and their two age-matched control groups. It is argued that this absence of differences is probably not due to a lack of sensitivity of the tests applied or the size of the groups studied. The level of exposure was estimated to be within a range at which previous authors have reported solvent-induced CNS effects.
The effect of cigarette smoking on the indexes of immunity and acute phase reaction in subjects with occupational exposure to organic solvents.	The study was carried out in 156 men, including 49 nonsmokers and 47 smokers who had never been exposed to chemicals, 19 nonsmokers exposed to organic solvents, and 41 smokers exposed to organic solvents. The results of toxicological analysis of air in the working place carried out in the range depending on the type of solvents used in the process of lacquering of steel cans and on the data obtained from the producer showed that the solvents contained benzene, toluene, xylene and their derivatives partly hydrogenated, paraffin hydrocarbons, oleins, naphthenes (components of painter's naphtha), monohydric and polyhydric alcohols (butanol, cyclohexanol, butyloglycol), esters (ethylglycol acetate, butyl acetate) and ketones (methyl isobutyl ketone, cyclohexanone). Measured benzene concentrations varied from 0 to 370 mg x m-3 (0 to 116 ppm), with arithmetic mean annual averages of about 100 mg x m-3 (31 ppm) in the late 1960's and less than 50 mg x m-3 (16 ppm) in the 1970's. In the 1980's values for the TWA were 0-38 mg x m-3 (0-12 ppm) with arithmetic mean averages of about 19 mg x m-3 (6 ppm) and for the level of benzene 0-351 mg x m-3 (0-110 ppm), with arithmetic mean annual averages of about 48 mg x m-3 (15 ppm). Phenol concentration in the urine of the workers in groups was 7.9 +/- 3.5; 10.0 +/- 5.8; 16.8 +/- 6.2 and 18.4 +/- 9.7 mg x 1(-1) respectively. Hippuric acid concentration in the urine of the workers in groups was 496 +/- 326, 538 +/- 341, 982 +/- 420 and 1107 +/- 507 mg x 1(-1) respectively. The parameters of immunity and proteins acute phase reaction were determined, measuring the count of T, B, and "non-T, non-B" circulating lymphocytes, the concentration of immunoglobulins, lysozyme, C3c, C4, alpha 1-acid glycoprotein, haptoglobulin and ceruloplasmin in serum. The results of the presented study suggest the role of cigarette smoking as a co-factor in the immunological changes brought out by occupational exposure to organic solvents. This phenomenon is reflected in the changes of IgA, IgD, IgG, IgM and lysozyme in the serum, and number of circulating T cells.
Scleroderma and occupational exposure.	A case-referent study was conducted in the province of Trento, Italy, to investigate the possible association between occupational exposure and scleroderma (systemic and localized variants).
A cross-sectional study on nerve conduction velocities among workers exposed to carbon disulphide.	We examined nerve conduction velocities (NCVs) in the ulnar nerve (motor, slower motor fiber and mixed), the peroneal nerve (motor, MCV) and the sural nerve (sensory, SCV) among 46 Japanese workers exposed to carbon disulphide (CS2, CS2-exposed group) and 28 normal control workers (group C). The subjects had not suffered from diseases or injuries of the peripheral or central nervous system. MCV in the peroneal nerve and SCV in the sural sural nerve in the CS2-exposed group were significantly reduced compared with those of group C (p < 0.05 in both), but no significant difference in NCVs of the ulnar nerve was noted between the two groups. In the two subgroups of the CS2 exposed group (currently exposed: group E n = 24; removed from exposure: group R n = 22), NCVs of group E tended to be lower than those of group R in spite of the younger age of group E. MCV in the peroneal nerve and SCV in the sural nerve in group E were significantly reduced compared with those in group C, but not significantly in group R. These findings indicate the existence of a toxic effect of CS2 exposure on the NCV, predominantly evident in the lower limbs in those workers. On removal from CS2 exposure, NCV recovery seemed to be possible.
Biological monitoring of exposure to solvents: a method for the gas-chromatographic determination of aromatic hydrocarbons in the blood and urine]	A gas chromatographic procedure with dynamic head-space purge and trap preconcentration (HSGC) and FID detection for blood and urinary benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene and xylenes (BTEX) determination at low level exposure is described. Critical steps (sample collection, calibration, HSGC conditions, contamination control) are discussed. The calibration curve is linear in the range 50 ng/l-500 micrograms/l; the calculated detection limit is 50 ng/l for all the considered aromatic hydrocarbons (AH) both in blood and urine; the within-day precision, calculated as variation coefficient (CV) at 400 ng/l and 40 micrograms/l (n = 6) was respectively CV = 13% and CV = 6% for all the studied analytes. The recovery rate was in the range 29-70%, depending on the hydrocarbon and matrix (blood or urine) considered. The procedure was applied to the biological monitoring of 151 workers occupationally or environmentally exposed to BTEX. Occupationally exposed subjects showed blood AH levels of 2-4 order of magnitude higher than environmentally exposed subjects. In white-collar workers exposed to BTEX urban pollution a significant difference in blood and urine levels of AH was observed between nonsmokers and smokers. Nonsmokers showed blood AH median values of respectively benzene = 241 ng/l, toluene = 759 ng/l, ethylbenzene = 140 ng/l, xylenes = 604 ng/l. Significatively higher BTEX blood values were observed in smokers after a median consumption of 5 cigarettes in 5 hours; observed median values were respectively: benzene = 365 ng/l toluene = 1327 ng/l, ethylbenzene = 233 ng/l, xylenes = 794 ng/l.
Increased acquired dyschromatopsia among solvent-exposed workers: an epidemiology study on 249 employees of an aluminum-foil printing factory.	To analyze the effects on color vision of chronic exposure to mixtures of solvents including ethyl acetate, ethanol, and ketones among the workers of a large factory specializing in the manufacture of photoengraved aluminum packaging.
Mortality and cancer incidence among Swedish paint industry workers with long-term exposure to organic solvents.	The aim of this update on a cohort of male paint industry workers was to determine whether an excess of mortality and incidence of lymphatic and hematopoietic tumors, particularly multiple myeloma, still exists, and, if so, to determine if it is due to exposures occurring before the mid-1950s, when benzene disappeared as a solvent in the Swedish paint industry.
MRI in chronic toluene abuse: low signal in the cerebral cortex on T2-weighted images.	MRI may be helpful in showing brain toxicity associated with chronic toluene inhalation. We report clinical and MRI findings over 3 years in a man with gradual neurologic decline secondary to toluene abuse. Cerebral atrophy most prominently involved the corpus callosum and cerebellar vermis. On T2-weighted images, loss of gray-white matter contrast, diffuse supratentorial white matter high-signal lesions, and low signal in the basal ganglia and midbrain were seen. In addition, MRI showed abnormal labor cortical low signal on T2-weighted images, most prominent in the primary motor and visual cortex. This cortical T2 shortening, not previously described in this condition, may reflect iron deposition.
Epidemiological data in polycythaemia vera: a study of 842 cases.	An epidemiological study of 842 polycythaemic patients (entered between 1980 and 1997 in the French investigational prospective protocols) is presented. The global incidence is approximately 0.8-1.5/100,000/year in the reference area (Ile-de-France and surrounding areas). It increases linearly with age until 80, which suggests that several mutational somatic events are necessary. There was a slight male excess (sex-ratio 1.2, after correction for the percentage of male and female French people still living at risk). We did observe a slight excess of PV in the population of Jewish ancestry. A surprising excess of former blood donors (20.7% of the PV cases, compared to 8% estimated in the reference population) was observed. Only a few cases of familial myeloproliferative diseases and occurence of leukemia in the family of our patients have been observed; even if slight, this excess is statistically significant. In contrast, no excess of carcinomas was observed either in the family or in the patients' antecedents. We did not find any excess of radiation exposure in our cases. When analysing the previous occupation of our patients a possible excess of physicians and of patients previously working in occupations using solvents and glues was found, but this finding needs confirmation.
Risk of adverse outcomes in pregnant women exposed to solvents.	To compare maternal and live birth outcomes of women who received consultation services between 1990 and 1993 from the Wisconsin occupational reproductive health nurse consultant (76% of whom were solvent-exposed) and a sample of women and their offspring selected randomly from birth certificate records drawn from the same years.
Long-term follow-up of psychological distress, social functioning, and coping style in treated and untreated patients with solvent-induced chronic toxic encephalopathy.	Patients with organic solvent-induced toxic encephalopathy (TE) (n = 13) were followed up seven years after the application of an intervention program. They were also compared with untreated TE patients diagnosed at the same time (n = 26) and with unexposed referents (n = 39). Psychological distress, social function, and coping ability and style were measured with the Symptom Checklist-90, Interview Schedule of Social Interaction, and Sense of Coherence and Strategies to Handle Stress questionnaires. Both TE groups had unchanged function in neuropsychological tests. Members of the treated group had improved their social functioning and reduced their mental stress but were not any better than the untreated patients. Compared with referents, the TE patients continued to live with increased psychological distress and used predominantly emotionally focused strategies to cope with their problems. This can be a cause for concern in family life and can also make gainful work impossible.
Coma in a premature infant associated with the transdermal absorption of propylene glycol.	A case of propylene glycol intoxication in a premature infant is reported. The infant went into a state of coma after treatment for burns with antiseptic dressings. Cessation of the topical treatment resulted in complete recovery. An exceptionally high level of the dressings' solvent, propylene glycol, found in the urinary chromatogram, was believed to be the causative agent. It is suggested that topical preparations containing propylene glycol should not be used in premature infants during the first weeks of life.
Residential exposure summary methodology for a reproductive health study of multiple hazardous waste sites.	Evaluation of associations between residence near hazardous waste sites and rare outcomes requires the consideration of large geographic areas and multiple sources of contamination. For a case-control study of birth defects and solvents, metals and pesticide exposure, the authors rely on previously collected data to rate possible residential exposure from hazardous waste sites. Four pathways of exposure are evaluated: air vapor, air particulates, groundwater ingestion, and groundwater inhalation. Areas within one mile of each site are classified according to 1) the probability of exposure to solvents, metals, and pesticides, and, if available, 2) the relative concentration of contaminants. The probability of exposure (low, medium, or high) for air vapor and particulates depends on the evaporation and soil retention potential of the contaminants, degree of containment, predominant wind direction, and size of the contaminated area. The probability of exposure for groundwater ingestion and inhalation depends on whether there are water supply wells or affected basements within one mile, solubility of the contaminants, direction of groundwater flow, and groundwater sampling results. Relative concentration is based on sampling results for the most commonly sampled media. Exposures are shown on a standard template that defines 25 sectors within a 1 mile radius of each site. The method cannot provide exact estimates of residential exposure, because it relies on data of variable quality. It does provide a basis for evaluating health effects at multiple sites by identifying susceptible residential areas.
Occupational exposures to solvents and aluminium and estimated risk of Alzheimer's disease.	To study the role of occupational exposures to solvents and aluminium in the aetiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). An industrial hygienist rated exposure.
Eruptive cherry angiomas and irritant symptoms after one acute exposure to the glycol ether solvent 2-butoxyethanol.	Seven clerical workers were evaluated in 1993, 8 months after exposure to vaporized 2-butoxyethanol (2-BE; also called butyl cellosolve or ethylene glycol monobutyl ether [EGMBE or EGBE]), which had been applied overnight to strip the floor of their file room. At the time of exposure, they had noted intense eye and respiratory irritation, marked dyspnea, nausea, and faintness, suggesting a concentration of 2-BE in the air of 200-300 parts per million (ppm). All seven workers later experienced recurrent eye and respiratory irritation, dry cough, and headache. Four months after the exposure, cherry angiomas began to appear on the arms, trunk, and thighs of six workers, who voiced concerns about the possibility of cancer. Our evaluation found no evidence of hematologic, liver, lung, or renal toxicity, but elevations in the erythrocyte sedimentation rate and blood pressure of each subject were found. Workplace air sampling found no detectable 2-BE, but traces (0.1-0.2 ppm) of formaldehyde were identified. Irritant symptoms abated after the group was moved to a room with better ventilation, and the mild hypertension gradually cleared, but new cherry angiomas have continued to appear 5 years after the acute exposure, as the initial ones persisted. These angiomas occur in healthy persons as they age but in this instance appear to have resulted from a single overexposure to 2-BE. We felt confident in reassuring the workers that they would suffer no serious consequences from this exposure.
