Somali and Oromo refugees: correlates of torture and trauma history.	This cross-sectional, community-based, epidemiological study characterized Somali and Ethiopian (Oromo) refugees in Minnesota to determine torture prevalence and associated problems.
Female genital mutilation in the West: traditional circumcision versus genital cosmetic surgery.	This article intends to present the Scandinavian legislation on female genital mutilation and explore the implications of the laws. Juxtaposing trends of plastic genital surgery in the West with claims that female circumcision may be a practice generally abandoned in Scandinavia, we highlight the double morality inherent in current public discussions. Finally, we pose the question: Is the legal principle of equality before the law regarded when it comes to alterations of the female genitals?
Somali refugee women speak out about their needs for care during pregnancy and delivery.	More than half of all Somali refugees in the United States live in Minnesota. To obtain information to develop culturally sensitive health education materials, we conducted two focus groups with 14 Somali women who had each given birth to one child in Minnesota. Overall, women thought that their childbirth experience was positive. They also reported racial stereotyping, apprehension of cesarean births, and concern about the competence of medical interpreters. Women wanted more information about events in the delivery room, pain medications, prenatal visits, interpreters, and roles of hospital staff. The most desirable educational formats were a videotape, audiotapes, printed materials, and birth center tours. To increase their attendance at prenatal appointments, participants said they needed reminder telephone calls, transportation, and childcare.
Narrative Exposure Therapy as a treatment for child war survivors with posttraumatic stress disorder: two case reports and a pilot study in an African refugee settlement.	Little data exists on the effectiveness of psychological interventions for children with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) that has resulted from exposure to war or conflict-related violence, especially in non-industrialized countries. We created and evaluated the efficacy of KIDNET, a child-friendly version of Narrative Exposure Therapy (NET), as a short-term treatment for children.
Talking about TB: multicultural diversity and tuberculosis services in Waikato, New Zealand.	To explore the diversity of opinion amongst different refugee and minority group representatives about tuberculosis, and to examine the provision of services and their effectiveness in the Waikato Health District, New Zealand.
Use of health care services by Afghan, Iranian, and Somali refugees and asylum seekers living in The Netherlands.	Although asylum seekers have been coming to The Netherlands since the 1980s, very few epidemiological studies have focused on this group of inhabitants, or on the refugees who have resettled in this country. The objective of this study is to estimate the use of health care services by refugees and asylum seekers and to identify determinants for this utilisation.
Carrier frequency of a nonsense mutation in the adenosine deaminase (ADA) gene implies a high incidence of ADA-deficient severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) in Somalia and a single, common haplotype indicates common ancestry.	Inherited adenosine deaminase (ADA) deficiency is a rare metabolic disorder that causes immunodeficiency, varying from severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) in the majority of cases to a less severe form in a small minority of patients. Five patients of Somali origin from four unrelated families, with severe ADA-SCID, were registered in the Greater London area. Patients and their parents were investigated for the nonsense mutation Q3X (ADA c7C>T), two missense mutations K80R (ADA c239A>G) and R142Q (ADA c425G>A), and a TAAA repeat located at the 3' end of an Alu element (AluVpA) positioned 1.1 kb upstream of the ADA transcription start site. All patients were homozygous for the haplotype ADA-7T/ADA-239G/ADA-425G/AluVpA7. Among 207 Somali immigrants to Denmark, the frequency of ADA c7C>T and the maximum likelihood estimate of the frequency of the haplotype ADA-7T/ADA-239G/ADA-425G/AluVpA7 were both 0.012 (carrier frequency 2.4%). Based on the analysis of AluVpA alleles, the ADA c7C/T mutation was estimated to be approximately 7,100 years old. Approximately 1 out of 5 - 10000 Somali children will be born with ADA deficiency due to an ADA c7C/T mutation, although within certain clans the frequency may be significantly higher. ADA-SCID may be a frequent immunodeficiency disorder in Somalia, but will be underdiagnosed due to the prevailing socioeconomic and nutritional deprivation.
Belonging and connection to school in resettlement: young refugees, school belonging, and psychosocial adjustment.	Schools are one of the first and most influential service systems for young refugees. There is a burgeoning interest in developing school-based refugee mental health services, in part to reduce stigma and increase treatment access for this population. Despite the relevance of gaining a better understanding of how refugee students experience schools in resettlement and how this relates to psychosocial adjustment, belonging and connection to school have not been previously investigated among a population of resettled refugees. This study examines school belonging and psychosocial adjustment among a sample of 76 Somali adolescents resettled in the United States. A greater sense of school belonging was associated with lower depression and higher self-efficacy, regardless of the level of past exposure to adversities. Notably, more than one-quarter of the variation in self-efficacy was explained uniquely by a sense of school belonging. School belonging was not significantly associated with posttraumatic stress symptom severity and did not moderate the effect of exposure to adversities on psychological adjustment. These results suggest that investigating ways of improving school experiences would be particularly useful in the effort towards continued development of school-based mental health programs for young refugees.
Knowledge and beliefs about health promotion and preventive health care among somali women in the United States.	We explored conceptualizations of health promotion and experiences with preventive health services among African refugee women. We asked 34 resettled Somali refugee women about their beliefs and experiences regarding health promotion and common preventive health care services in the United States. Interviews were audiotaped, transcribed, and analyzed using a grounded theory approach. Key themes were the importance of good hygiene, an adequate source of food and water, access to a regular source of health care, spirituality, traditional practices, and functioning well at home. All participants were familiar with the process and rationale for immunizations and routine medical examinations; few understood cancer screening services.
Acculturation, partner violence, and psychological distress in refugee women from Somalia.	This study examined the relations among acculturation, domestic violence, and mental health in 62 married refugee women from Somalia. Refugees from Somalia constituted the largest group of refugees entering the United States in 2005, and little is known about the presence of domestic violence in this group. The results showed that women who reported greater ability to speak English also reported more experiences of partner psychological abuse and physical aggression. Experiences of more psychological abuse and physical aggressions also predicted more psychological distress. Implications for future research and psychological services are addressed.
High incidence of profound biotinidase deficiency detected in newborn screening blood spots in the Somalian population in Minnesota.	Newborns identified with profound biotinidase deficiency (BTD) by the Minnesota Newborn Screening Program (MN NBS) between 1 October 2004 and 30 May 2008 were all from new immigrant groups. Thirty-three positive cases of BTD were identified out of 264 727 infants screened by the Wolf colorimetric system during the period of this study by MN NBS. Five cases of profound BTD (0.1 to <0.6 nmol/min per ml) and 26 cases of partial BTD (0.9 to 2.3 nmol/min per ml) were later confirmed through measurement of serum biotinidase activity. The incidence of combined partial and profound BTD of 1/8540 and that of profound BTD of 1/52 945 in Minnesota are unusually high in comparison with the reported worldwide numbers of 1/61 067 for combined BTD and 1/137 401 for profound BTD. Four out of the 5 cases of profound BTD ascertained in the MN NBS cohort were of Somali ethnic background, and the remaining case was of Asian (Pakistani/Indian) ethnic background. All four Somali patients have the P497S mutation, with one of the four being homozygous for the mutation. The three compound heterozygotes all have a novel mutation (P142T) and two of them have another change (Y428Y) that has never been described. Within the last two decades, Minnesota has become home to an estimated 40 000 Somali immigrants and their children (<1% of the total Minnesota population). New population demographics prompt careful analysis of case cohorts to identify specific groups at risk for rare inborn errors of metabolism.
Understanding the role of culture in domestic violence: the Ahimsa Project for Safe Families.	Domestic violence affects women across all racial, national, social, and economic groups. In particular, immigrant and refugee families are at risk for domestic violence because of their migration history and differences in cultural values and norms. The Ahimsa for Safe Families Project is an innovative collaborative project that addresses domestic violence in immigrant and refugee communities in San Diego. The project is designed to increase awareness of domestic violence among Latino, Somali, and Vietnamese communities and to develop and implement culturally specific programs aimed at each community. Here the authors describe the Project's needs assessment and community dialogues that guided the development of specific interventions; present the lessons learned; and describe replicable, culturally specific prevention strategies utilized by the Project.
Cases of community-acquired meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus in an asylum seekers centre in Germany, November 2010.	In an asylum seeker centre in Schleswig-Holstein, a resident was diagnosed with furuncle caused by a Panton-Valentine leukocidine (PVL)-positive community-acquired meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (CA-MRSA). As a result of active case finding, 232 of 427 persons (54% of all residents) were screened for MRSA and two further PVL-positive CA-MRSA cases were identified
An anthropological analysis of the perspectives of Somali women in the West and their obstetric care providers on caesarean birth.	We explored the perceptions of 39 Somali women and 62 obstetric care providers in London in relation to caesarean birth, as borne out of a paradox we recognised from evidence-based information about the Somali group. Socio-cultural factors potentially leading to adverse obstetric outcome were identified using in-depth and focus group interviews with semi-structured, open-ended questions. A cultural anthropology model, the emic/etic model, was used for analysis. Somali women expressed fear and anxiety throughout the pregnancy and identified strategies to avoid caesarean section (CS). There was widespread, yet anecdotal, awareness among obstetric care providers about negative Somali attitudes. Caesarean avoidance and refusal were expressed as being highly stressful among providers, but also as being the responsibility of the women and families. For women, avoiding or refusing caesarean was based on a rational choice to avoid death and coping with adverse outcome relied on fatalistic attitudes. Motivation for the development of preventive actions among both groups was not described, which lends weight to the vast distinction and lack of correspondence in identified perspectives between Somali women and UK obstetric providers. Early booking and identification of women likely to avoid caesarean is proposed, as is the development of preventive strategies to address CS avoidance.
Health education for Somali Bantu refugees via home visits.	 Somali Bantu refugees, with unique health information needs, created challenges for health and social service providers.
Enablers and barriers to dietary practices contributing to bone health among early adolescent Somali girls living in Minnesota.	To explore the dietary factors that contribute to bone health among first generation Somali girls and to determine the social and cultural contexts that shape these health behaviors.
Reproductive and maternity health care services in Finland: perceptions and experiences of Somali-born immigrant women.	To explore immigrant Somali women's experiences of reproductive and maternity health care services (RMHCS) and their perceptions about the service providers.
Supporting refugee Somali Bantu mothers with children with disabilities.	This study sought to understand how local Somali Bantu refugee mothers perceive education or health needs of their children with disabilities. Using a grounded theory qualitative design, the investigator interviewed five Somali Bantu mothers and one father in their homes. Four predominant categories emerged from the data: Native Healing, Unmet Needs, Ongoing Challenges, and Helpful Helping. Study findings demonstrate the need for nurses and other health care providers to understand the refugee experience in raising children with special needs in Vermont. Better communication between providers and families on critical topics, such as etiology and treatment of disabilities, negotiating systems of care, and managing health and safety issues at home, is needed. The small number of participants with limited interaction is the greatest limitation of this study.
The cultural basis for oral health practices among Somali refugees pre-and post-resettlement in Massachusetts.	Oral health disparities related to socioeconomic status have been well described in the U.S., but oral health among refugee groups has not been well characterized. This article examines oral health among Somali refugees in Massachusetts.
Social determinants of psychiatric morbidity and well-being in immigrant elders and whites in east London.	The social conditions under which migrants to the UK live may be more significant than the experience of migration itself in leading to increased risk of mental illness. We aimed to compare the prevalence of mental, physical and social health problems in elderly Somalis, Bengalis and whites living in a deprived inner London area and examine associations between environmental circumstances, social support, physical health status, mood and life satisfaction in these groups. In addition, we wanted to test the hypothesis that differences in mental health between immigrants and whites are explained by social disadvantages rather than ethnicity.
