The effectiveness of psychosocial interventions delivered by general practitioners.	Many patients visit their general practitioner (GP) because of problems that are psychosocial in origin. However, for many of these problems there is no evidence-based treatment available in primary care, and these patients place time-consuming demands on their GP. Therefore, GPs could benefit from tools to help these patients more effectively and efficiently. In this light, it is important to assess whether structured psychosocial interventions might be an appropriate tool for GPs. Previous reviews have shown that psychosocial interventions in primary care seem more effective that usual care. However, these interventions were mostly performed by health professionals other than the GP.
Why do general practitioners decline training to improve management of medically unexplained symptoms?	General practitioners' (GPs) communication with patients presenting medically unexplained symptoms (MUS) has the potential to somatize patients' problems and intensify dependence on medical care. Several reports indicate that GPs have negative attitudes about patients with MUS. If these attitudes deter participation in training or other methods to improve communication, practitioners who most need help will not receive it.
Relationship of functional gastrointestinal disorders and psychiatric disorders: implications for treatment.	This article revisits the links between psychopathology and functional gastrointestinal disorders such as irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), discusses the rational use of antidepressants as well as non-pharmacological approaches to the management of IBS, and suggests guidelines for the treatment of IBS based on an interdisciplinary perspective from the present state of knowledge. Relevant published literature on psychiatric disorders, especially somatization disorder, in the context of IBS, and literature providing direction for management is reviewed, and new directions are provided from findings in the literature. IBS is a heterogeneous syndrome with various potential mechanisms responsible for its clinical presentations. IBS is typically complicated with psychiatric issues, unexplained symptoms, and functional syndromes in other organ systems. Most IBS patients have multiple complaints without demonstrated cause, and that these symptoms can involve systems other than the intestine, e.g. bones and joints (fibromyalgia, temporomandibular joint syndrome), heart (non-cardiac chest pain), vascular (post-menopausal syndrome), and brain (anxiety, depression). Most IBS patients do not have psychiatric illness per se, but a range of psychoform (psychological complaints in the absence of psychiatric disorder) symptoms that accompany their somatoform (physical symptoms in the absence of medical disorder) complaints. It is not correct to label IBS patients as psychiatric patients (except those more difficult patients with true somatization disorder). One mode of treatment is unlikely to be universally effective or to resolve most symptoms. The techniques of psychotherapy or cognitive-behavioral therapy can allow IBS patients to cope more readily with their illness. Specific episodes of depressive or anxiety disorders can be managed as appropriate for those conditions. Medications designed to improve anxiety or depression are not uniformly useful for psychiatric complaints in IBS, because the psychoform symptoms that sound similar to those seen in psychiatric disorders may not have the same significance in patients with IBS.
Experts' opinions on the management of medically unexplained symptoms in primary care. A qualitative analysis of narrative reviews and scientific editorials.	The feasibility as well as the suitability of several therapies for medically unexplained symptoms (MUS) in primary care applied by the family physician (FP) appeared to be low. FPs need effective and acceptable strategies to manage these functionally impaired patients.
Psychotherapy in primary care: presentation of a case of somatomorphic disorder treated with interpersonal therapy]	Problems of medically unexplained somatic symptoms are common in Primary care. They often involve a psychiatric comorbidity that requires some form of psychotherapy that addresses, among other problems, the frequent use of the service. The purpose of this paper is to present the rationale and the generalities of a brief psychotherapeutic intervention, interpersonal therapy (IPT), in its adaptation to primary care. Its applicability is shown through a case of undifferentiated somatoform disorder, a condition so prevalent and difficult to approach in the field of primary care. IPT assumes that stressful life events and interpersonal difficulties act as triggers or maintainers of the psychic symptoms. The intervention is structured around four possible sources: grief, role transitions, interpersonal disputes and interpersonal deficits.
Acupuncture for 'frequent attenders' with medically unexplained symptoms: a randomised controlled trial (CACTUS study).	Medically unexplained physical symptoms (MUPS) are common and difficult to treat.
Cognitive-behavioural group treatment for a range of functional somatic syndromes: randomised trial.	Many specialty-specific functional somatic syndrome diagnoses exist to describe people who are experiencing so-called medically unexplained symptoms. Although cognitive-behavioural therapy can be effective in the management of such syndromes, it is rarely available. A cognitive-behavioural therapy suitable for group treatment of people with different functional somatic syndromes could address this problem.
Effectiveness of a cognitive behavioral intervention in patients with medically unexplained symptoms: cluster randomized trial.	Medically unexplained symptoms are an important mental health problem in primary care and generate a high cost in health services.Cognitive behavioral therapy and psychodynamic therapy have proven effective in these patients. However, there are few studies on the effectiveness of psychosocial interventions by primary health care. The project aims to determine whether a cognitive-behavioral group intervention in patients with medically unexplained symptoms, is more effective than routine clinical practice to improve the quality of life measured by the SF-12 questionary at 12 month.
Role of mental health professionals in the management of functional somatic symptoms in primary care.	Functional somatic symptoms associated with persistent frequent attendance is emotionally demanding, costly and intractable to treat. Such patients are hard to engage in practice and research by mental health professionals, whose main role may be indirect training, supporting and advising primary care professionals rather than direct patient care.
Comment on Zimmerman's use of the river metaphor in irritable bowel syndrome treatment.	The river approach has been used effectively in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome within the U.K. National Health Service (Gonsalkorale, Houghton, & Whorwell, 2002; Whorwell, 2006) and in single case studies (Galovski & Blanchard, 2002; Zimmerman, 2003; Kraft & Kraft, 2007). Zimmerman (2003) pointed out that this metaphor was extremely powerful in that it linked the altered motility of the digestive system to an emotional disturbance: by encouraging his patient to imagine a smooth flowing river, he helped her to come to terms with her emotional conflict and, in turn, to experience normal gut activity. The author reviews this approach to treatment and offers an alternative which utilizes process suggestions, accessing questions and truisms while providing clients with the space to imagine their own tailor-made scene.
Psychiatric referrals in a neuropsychiatric centre.	Consecutive new cases were screened to identify those referred by other specialties. The referred cases were compared with a randomly selected control group from the non referred cases. Referred cases constituted 16.4% of all the clinic new cases but the demographic characteristics were similar to those of the other clinic cases. Functional somatic complaints were significantly more often (p less than 0.01) reported by the referred cases. Depressive and anxiety symptoms were also significantly more often observed in the referred group (p less than 0.01). Most of the referred cases had identifiable psychiatric problems which could be managed in an out-patient setting. Studies on referral patterns and modes of clinical presentation are useful in planning and organising consultation liaison services in general and specialist centres.
Views of practicing psychiatrists on the treatment of anxiety and somatoform disorders.	Psychiatrists in Australia were asked to recommend treatments for several anxiety and somatoform disorders. In previous surveys they had agreed about the preferred treatments for schizophrenia and major affective disorder but not about treatments for "neurotic depression" or agoraphobia. In the present survey, no treatment was regarded as critical by a majority of psychiatrists for any of the five anxiety and somatoform disorders studied. The authors conclude that because neurotic disorders form an important part of the workload of psychiatrists, consensus procedures should be used to develop guidelines for treatment until the research literature can provide more adequate guidance.
Cognitive behavioural therapy for medically unexplained physical symptoms: a randomised controlled trial.	To examine the additional effect of cognitive behavioural therapy for patients with medically unexplained physical symptoms in comparison with optimised medical care.
