The effect of normal aging on the coupling of neural activity to the bold hemodynamic response.	The use of functional neuroimaging to test hypotheses regarding age-related changes in the neural substrates of cognitive processes relies on assumptions regarding the coupling of neural activity to neuroimaging signal. Differences in neuroimaging signal response between young and elderly subjects can be mapped directly to differences in neural response only if such coupling does not change with age. Here we examined spatial and temporal characteristics of the BOLD fMRI hemodynamic response in primary sensorimotor cortex in young and elderly subjects during the performance of a simple reaction time task. We found that 75% of elderly subjects (n = 20) exhibited a detectable voxel-wise relationship with the behavioral paradigm in this region as compared to 100% young subjects (n = 32). The median number of suprathreshold voxels in the young subjects was greater than four times that of the elderly subjects. Young subjects had a slightly greater signal:noise per voxel than the elderly subjects that was attributed to a greater level of noise per voxel in the elderly subjects. The evidence did not support the idea that the greater head motion observed in the elderly was the cause of this greater voxel-wise noise. There were no significant differences between groups in either the shape of the hemodynamic response or in its the within-group variability, although the former evidenced a near significant trend. The overall finding that some aspects of the hemodynamic coupling between neural activity and BOLD fMRI signal change with age cautions against simple interpretations of the results of imaging studies that compare young and elderly subjects.
Somatosensory evoked magnetic fields from the primary somatosensory cortex (SI) in acute stroke.	We recorded somatosensory evoked magnetic fields (SEFs) to median nerve stimulation from 15 patients in the acute stage (1-15 days from the onset of the symptoms) of their first-ever unilateral stroke involving sensorimotor cortical and/or subcortical structures in the territory of the middle cerebral artery (MCA). Neuronal activity corresponding to the peaks of the N20m, P35m and P60m SEF deflections from the contralateral primary somatosensory cortex (SI) was modelled with equivalent current dipoles (ECDs), the locations and strengths of which were compared with those of an age-matched normal population. Four patients with pure motor stroke had symmetric SEFs. In one of the 4 patients with pure sensory stroke, and in 5 of the 7 patients with sensorimotor paresis, the SEFs were markedly attenuated or missing. All except one patient with abnormal SEFs had deficient two-point discrimination ability; especially the attenuation of N20m was more clearly correlated with two-point discrimination than with joint-position or vibration senses. Of the different SEF deflections, P35m and P60m were slightly more sensitive indicators of abnormality than N20m, the former being affected in two patients with symmetric N20m. Three patients with pure sensory stroke and lesions in the opercular cortex had normal SEFs from SI. We conclude that the SEF deflections N20m, P35m and P60m from SI are related to cutaneous sensation, in particular discriminative to touch. The results also demonstrate that basic somatosensory perception can be affected by lesions in the opercular cortex in patients with functionally intact SI.
Sensory mapping of lip representation in brass musicians with embouchure dystonia.	Embouchure dystonia is a focal task-specific disorder involving abnormal non-coordinated movements and involuntary muscle contraction around the mouth. In professional brass players it is often so disabling that patients have to limit or give up their occupation. We examined the somatosensory homuncular representation and measured gap detection sensitivity of the lips in eight former professional musicians affected by embouchure dystonia and eight control subjects. Relative to controls, the patients' digit, and especially the thumb, representations were shifted in a lateral direction towards the lip representational zone. Patients' upper lips showed decreased sensitivity compared to their lower lips (p < 0.01). This asymmetry result was absent in controls. Abnormal somatosensory reorganization may contribute to the disorder.
Shrinkage of somatosensory hand area in subjects with upper extremity dysmelia revealed by magnetoencephalography.	The effect of peripheral lesions on cerebral somatosensory representations is well studied for experimentally induced amputations and deafferentations acquired later in life. However, few studies have investigated the brain's capacity for plastic changes in congenital malformations. We studied somatosensory-evoked fields to electrical stimulation of the bordering fingers in 10 subjects with upper extremity dysmelia in comparison with 10 control subjects using a 122-channel whole-head magnetometer. The number of developed fingers varied between two and four in the affected subjects. We localized finger representations in the primary somatosensory cortex and calculated Euclidian distances to estimate the size of the somatosensory hand area. Euclidian distances were significantly smaller in dysmelic subjects (5.7 mm) than in control subjects (11.6 mm) and were related to the number of the developed fingers on the contralateral hand. In contrast, individual finger representations were not found to be reduced. We suggest that the shrinkage of the somatosensory hand area might be related to the congenital nature of the malformation, to the smaller anatomical hand size in the affected subjects, and/or to use-dependent effects due to impaired hand function.
Illusory persistence of touch after right parietal damage: neural correlates of tactile awareness.	We studied a patient who experienced 'palinaesthesia', an illusion of persistent touch following tactile stimulation on the left hand, subsequent to a right parietal meningioma affecting primary somatosensory regions in the postcentral gyrus (SI) and superior parietal gyrus (Brodmann area 7), but preserving the secondary somatosensory cortex (SII) in the upper lateral sulcus. This subjective sensation was accompanied by transient increases in objective measures of tactile threshold. The patient had mild deficits in superficial tactile perception, but showed severe left-sided extinction for offsets of tactile stimuli during bilateral stimulation, but not for onsets of stimuli. Functional MRI revealed increased neural activity during palinaesthesia selectively arising within the ipsilesional-right SI cortex, but no abnormality within left SI and bilateral SII. Right SI responded to the onset of new tactile stimuli on the left hand but not to their offset. By contrast, any tactile events on either hand modulated activity in contralateral SII regions, even undetected left-sided offsets. These data demonstrate that illusory persistence of touch following stimulation on the hand may result from sustained neural activity in a restricted region of the SI cortex outlasting the offset of the actual tactile stimuli. These findings also provide direct evidence for a critical role of SI in mediating conscious somatosensory experience on contralateral parts of the body.
Stroke patients' evolving symptoms assessed by tractography.	To test the hypothesis that an interval evolution in the location of the depicted sensorimotor tract relative to the infarct (the "tract-infarct relationship") may be related to stroke victims' symptom progression.
Postnatal physiological development of rats after acute prenatal hypoxia.	The aim of the present work was to identify the characteristics of the physiological development of the brain and the formation of behavior in rats subjected to hypoxia on day 13.5 of embryogenesis. These animals showed delayed development and changes in nerve tissue structure in the sensorimotor cortex, along with disturbances to the processes forming normal movement responses during the first month after birth. These changes were partially compensated with age, though adult animals subjected to acute prenatal hypoxia were less able to learn new complex manipulatory movements. Alterations in nerve tissue structure and changes in the neuronal composition of the sensorimotor cortex correlated with the times of appearance of behavioral impairments at different stages of ontogenesis. Thus, changes in the conditions in which the body is formed during a defined period of embryogenesis lead to abnormalities in the process of ontogenetic development and the ability to learn new movements.
Structure of dependent relationships between neurons in the sensorimotor cortex of the left and right hemispheres in rabbits in immobilization catatonia.	Dependence in the activity of sensorimotor cortex neurons recorded simultaneously in the left and right hemispheres was detected in rabbits in baseline conditions, during the state of immobilization ("animal hypnosis"), and recovery of animals from this state. In baseline conditions, the total percentage of dependent relationships between close-lying (within 50 microm) neurons in the left hemisphere was significantly smaller than in the right hemisphere and did not change either in the state of immobilization or on recovery from it. The total percentage of dependent relationships between close-lying neurons in the right hemisphere decreased significantly during immobilization and returned to baseline levels on recovery from this state. The percentage of dependent relationships between distant (500 microm) neurons in immobilization, conversely, showed no change in the cortex of the right hemisphere, though it changed significantly in the cortex of the left hemisphere, returning to baseline values when the rabbits recovered from this state. Further analysis showed that this cortical interhemisphere asymmetry was based on the asymmetrical activity of individual neurons and small neuronal populations. Thus, changes in the structure of dependent relationships between neurons in microareas of the cortex of the left and macroareas of the cortex of the right hemisphere could be in different directions, while changes in microareas of the right hemisphere and macroareas of the left hemisphere were synergistic. Thus, asymmetry was detected at different levels of neuronal combinations (neuron pairs, micro- and macrogroups of neurons), which suggests mosaicism in neuron structure, which ultimately leads to overall functional asymmetry in "animal hypnosis." Some changes in the structure of dependent relationships between sensorimotor cortex neurons arising in "animal hypnosis" persisted or even became more marked after recovery of animals from this state.
Testing forelimb placing "across the midline" reveals distinct, lesion-dependent patterns of recovery in rats.	We describe a new test of vibrissae-elicited forelimb placing ability that allows testing of sensorimotor integration across the midline. Rats were given unilateral brain lesions using one of three methods: (1) middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) causing significant damage to the cortex and striatum, (2) aspiration lesions to remove tissue from the sensorimotor cortex, and (3) infusions of the catecholamine neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) into the medial forebrain bundle, producing a parkinsonian syndrome. Application of the new test to these animals revealed that with some lesion types, the ability of vibrissae on the unimpaired side of the body to trigger placing in the functionally impaired forelimb recovers before vibrissae on the impaired side can elicit placing. This occurs despite the lack of any apparent vibrissae sensory deficit, since the contralesional vibrissae maintained the ability to trigger placing in the unimpaired forelimb in all lesions studied. Chronically, MCAo-lesioned rats do not place the impaired forelimb upon stimulation of the impaired-side vibrissae, but do place if the vibrissae on the good side are stimulated (i.e., when the placing is triggered "across the midline"). This is in contrast to 6-OHDA-lesioned rats which, consistent with parkinsonian akinesia, cannot place the impaired limb regardless of sensory trigger. Also, differences in the pattern of recovery between MCAo- and aspiration-lesioned rats suggest a possible anatomical substrate for cross-midline placing ability and its recovery. Unlike other tests, cross-midline placing methods can readily distinguish between severe stroke and severe parkinsonism in rats.
Effects of congenital hydrocephalus on serotonergic input and barrel cytoarchitecture in the developing somatosensory cortex of rats.	The effects of progressive ventricular dilation on the development of the somatosensory cortex (SmI) were studied in congenital hydrocephalic rats, with regard to early serotonergic innervation and formation of functional cellular columns. In hydrocephalic rats, the time course, immunoreactivity, and patterns of formation and synaptogenesis of serotonin immunoreactive (5-HT-IR) terminal aggregations, which characterize the development of the SmI, were preserved. After disappearance of 5-HT-IR terminals, characteristic barrel cytoarchitecture formed normally at the site where 5-HT-IR terminal aggregations had been present. With the progression of hydrocephalus, the cerebral cortex became extremely thin and its total surface area was greatly increased, while barrels were preserved and their areas did not enlarge. These findings suggest that the basic development and the fundamental cytoarchitecture of the cortex are resistant to adverse effects of hydrocephalus.
Comparison of different methodological implementations of voxel-based morphometry in neurodegenerative disease.	Voxel-based morphometry (VBM) is a popular method for probing inter-group differences in brain morphology. Variation in the detailed implementation of the algorithm, however, will affect the apparent results of VBM analyses and in turn the inferences drawn about the anatomic expression of specific disease states. We qualitatively assessed group comparisons of 43 normal elderly control subjects and 51 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease, using five different VBM variations. Based on the known pathologic expression of the disease, we evaluated the biological plausibility of each. The use of a custom template and custom tissue class prior probability images (priors) produced inter-group comparison maps with greater biological plausibility than the use of the Montreal Neurological Institute (MNI) template and priors. We present a method for initializing the normalization to a custom template, and conclude that, when incorporated into the VBM processing chain, it yields the most biologically plausible inter-group differences of the five methods presented.
Motor improvements after focal cortical ischemia in adult rats are mediated by compensatory mechanisms.	Initial functional impairments after cerebral ischemia often improve considerably during the early period after the insult. Although pathological changes associated with post-lesion improvements have been widely investigated, it has not been resolved whether behavioral improvement represents true restoration of function (recovery) or development of new strategies (compensation). This study investigated whether early motor improvements after focal cerebral ischemia reflect recovery or compensation. Adult female Wistar rats were trained to retrieve food pellets in a skilled reaching task prior to receiving a unilateral cortical infarction induced by photothrombosis in forelimb motor cortex. Animals were continuously tested in the reaching task up to 3 weeks after lesion. The end point measures revealed that reaching success rates remained at pre-lesion levels, however, qualitative analysis of reaching movements indicated permanent changes in forelimb movement patterns. Similar observations were made in a skilled walking task and a test for forelimb asymmetry. These data indicate that lesion animals adopted alternative movement strategies in order to successfully perform the tasks. The changes in postoperative performance were compared to anatomical data in individual animals. The finding that reaching success was not related to lesion size supports the idea that the degree of adaptive behavior after cortical ischemia depends on plastic properties of the remaining intact tissue.
Epidural cortical stimulation enhances motor function after sensorimotor cortical infarcts in rats.	This study examined whether epidurally delivered cortical electrical stimulation (CS) improves the efficacy of motor rehabilitative training and alters neuronal density and/or cell proliferation in perilesion cortex following ischemic sensorimotor cortex (SMC) lesions. Adult rats were pre-trained on a skilled reaching task and then received partial unilateral SMC lesions and implantation of electrodes over the remaining SMC. Ten to fourteen days later, rats received daily reach training concurrent with anodal or cathodal 100 Hz CS or no stimulation (NoCS) for 18 days. To label newly generated cells, bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU; 50 mg/kg) was administered every third day of training. Both anodal and cathodal CS robustly enhanced reaching performance compared to NoCS controls. Neuronal density in the perilesion cortex was significantly increased in the cathodal CS group compared to the NoCS group. There were no significant group differences in BrdU-labeled cell density in ipsilesional cortex. Staining with Fluoro-Jade-B indicated that neurons continue to degenerate near the infarct at the time when cortical stimulation and rehabilitation were initiated. These data indicate that epidurally delivered CS greatly improves the efficacy of rehabilitative reach training following SMC damage and raise the possibility that cathodal CS may influence neuronal survival in perilesion cortex.
fMRI of delayed albumin treatment during stroke recovery in rats: implication for fast neuronal habituation in recovering brains.	Accumulating experimental and clinical data suggest that albumin may be neuroprotective for stroke. Here, we use functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of albumin and its effects on the recovery of stimuli-induced cerebral hemodynamics. For this purpose, fMRI activity in the ipsilesional somatosensory (SS) cortex was assessed using a well established rat model of transient 90 min focal ischemia and electrical forelimb stimulation. Rats were treated with either saline or albumin via intracerebroventricular injections at 12 h post-stroke onset. Despite this delayed treatment time, when compared to the saline-treated rats (n=7), there were significant enhancements of the fMRI activation in the albumin-treated rats (n=6) for both blood oxygenation level dependence (BOLD) and functional cerebral blood volume (fCBV) responses. Interestingly, the temporal characteristics of the ipsilesional SS BOLD responses in the albumin-treated rats appeared considerably altered compared to those of contralesional responses while such temporal alterations were not pronounced for the fCBV responses. These characteristic fMRI temporal profiles of the albumin-treated brains may be due to altered neuronal responses rather than altered integrity of neurovascular coupling, which implies an unusually fast habituation of neuronal responses in the lesional SS cortex. The correlation between various MRI-derived structural parameters and the fMRI response magnitude was also characteristic for albumin and control groups. Taken together, these data suggest that restoration of fMRI response magnitudes, temporal profiles, and correlations with structure may reveal the extent and specific traits of albumin treatment associated stroke recovery.
Different dendrite and dendritic spine alterations in basal and apical arbors in mutant human amyloid precursor protein transgenic mice.	The extracellular deposition of amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) in brain parenchyma is one of the characteristic features of Alzheimer's disease and is suggested to induce reactive and degenerative changes in neuronal cell bodies, axons and dendritic processes. In particular, within and in close proximity to amyloid plaques, distinctive morphological alterations have been observed, including changes in neurite trajectory and decreases in dendritic diameter and in spine density. Apart from these plaque-associated focal aberrations, little is known regarding modifications of the global dendritic morphology including the detailed and comparative quantitative analysis of apical and basal arbors. The objective of the present study was to investigate the effects of amyloid plaque deposition and elevated soluble Abeta on neuronal morphology in mutant human amyloid precursor protein (hAPP) transgenic mice (line Tg2576; [K. Hsiao, P. Chapman, S. Nilsen, C. Eckman, Y. Harigaya, S. Younkin, F. Yang, G. Cole, Correlative memory deficits, Abeta elevation, and amyloid plaques in transgenic mice, Science 274 (1996) 99-102]). Retrogradelly labeled callosal-projecting pyramidal cells in the primary somatosensory cortex were three-dimensionally analyzed. Although basal dendrites remained unaffected, analysis of apical trees revealed a number of unambiguous morphological changes. Thus, in TG2576 mice, the apical arbors were shortened in total length and less branched. Furthermore, the diameter of proximal dendritic segments was increased whereas that of distal segments was reduced. Analysis of spine numbers and distribution on basal and apical trees demonstrated a significant reduction in spine densities along the whole course of dendrites. The findings suggest that Abeta-related pathology induces morphological aberrations in basal and apical arbors to different degrees which are unrelated to direct plaque-associated changes.
Parietal lobe volume deficits in schizophrenia spectrum disorders.	There has been little attention given to whether parietal lobe structural deficits are present in patients with schizophrenia and related personality disorders. The current study was designed to examine parietal volume alterations between schizophrenia and schizotypal personality disorder. Twenty-five patients with schizotypal disorder, 53 patients with schizophrenia, and 59 healthy volunteers were scanned using high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Volume measurements of the postcentral gyrus (PoCG), precuneus, superior parietal gyrus (SuPG), supramarginal gyrus (SMG), and angular gyrus (AGG) were performed on consecutive 1-mm coronal slices. Gray matter volumes were reduced in all parietal subregions in patients with schizophrenia compared with healthy controls. White matter volumes were also reduced in the SuPG and PoCG. In contrast, the schizotypal subjects had gray matter reductions only in the PoCG, while other regions were not affected. In addition, there was a lack of normal significant-leftward asymmetry in the SMG in schizophrenia. These findings demonstrate that volume reductions in the somatosensory cortices are common morphological characteristics in schizophrenia spectrum disorders. The additional volume alterations in schizophrenia may support the notion that a deficit in the posterior parietal region is critical for the manifestation of overt psychotic symptoms.
Biology and therapy of fibromyalgia. Functional magnetic resonance imaging findings in fibromyalgia.	Techniques in neuroimaging such as functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) have helped to provide insights into the role of supraspinal mechanisms in pain perception. This review focuses on studies that have applied fMRI in an attempt to gain a better understanding of the mechanisms involved in the processing of pain associated with fibromyalgia. This article provides an overview of the nociceptive system as it functions normally, reviews functional brain imaging methods, and integrates the existing literature utilizing fMRI to study central pain mechanisms in fibromyalgia.
Awake craniotomy versus surgery under general anesthesia for resection of intrinsic lesions of eloquent cortex--a prospective randomised study.	Complete removal of a brain tumor without inflicting neurological deficits is a desirable end result in neurosurgical practice. Currently no prospective randomized surgical series in the literature exists comparing tumor resection under general versus local anesthesia awake surgery may achieve more aggressive tumor resection and minimize postoperative neurological morbidity.
Exercise intensity influences the temporal profile of growth factors involved in neuronal plasticity following focal ischemia.	Exercise increases brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), phosphorylated cAMP response-element binding protein (pCREB), insulin-like growth factor (IGF-I) and synapsin-I, each of which has been implicated in neuroplastic processes underlying recovery from ischemia. In this study we examined the temporal profile (0, 30, 60 and 120 min following exercise) of these proteins in the hippocampus and sensorimotor cortex following both motorized (60 min) and voluntary (12 h) running, 2 weeks after focal ischemia. Our goal was to identify the optimal training paradigms (intensity, duration and frequency) needed to integrate endurance exercise in stroke rehabilitation. Therefore we utilized telemetry to measure changes in heart rate with both exercise methods. Our findings show that although the more intense, motorized running exercise induced a rapid increase in BDNF, the elevation was more short-lived than with voluntary running. Motorized running was also associated with higher levels of synapsin-I in several brain regions but simultaneously, a more pronounced increase in the stress hormone, corticosterone. Furthermore, both forms of exercise resulted in decreased phosphorylation of CREB and downregulation of synapsin-I in hippocampus beginning 30 to 60 min after the exercise bout. This phenomenon was more robust after motorized running, the method that generated higher heart rate and serum corticosterone levels. This immediate stress response is likely specific to acute exercise and may diminish with repeated exercise exposure. The present data illustrate a complex interaction between different forms of exercise and proteins implicated in neuroplasticity. For clinical application, frequent lower intensity exercise episodes (as in voluntary running wheels), which may be safer to provide to patients with stroke, has a delayed but sustained effect on BDNF that may support brain remodeling after stroke.
Myeloid sarcoma with multiple lesions of the central nervous system in a patient without leukemia. Case report.	The authors report the unusual case of a 35-year-old woman suffering from left leg numbness and radiculopathy due to multiple lesions in the central nervous system: one right parietal extracranial-intracranial lesion with invasion of the sensory cortex, and two intraspinal, intradural lesions compressing the spinal cord at T3-5 and S 1-4. Biopsy sampling of the extracranial part of the parietal lesion led to a diagnosis of myeloid sarcoma. Further examination revealed no evidence of leukemic disease or myeloproliferative disorder. An aggressive multimodal approach to treatment in this patient with a combination of chemotherapy, whole-body radiotherapy, and allogeneic bone marrow transplantation was started immediately. The patient experienced full neurological recovery and complete disappearance of all lesions. At the 7-year follow-up examination, there was no evidence of disease. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first report of a myeloid sarcoma with both intracranial and intraspinal manifestations in a patient without leukemia.
Interictal alterations of the trigeminal somatosensory pathway and periaqueductal gray matter in migraine.	Migraine has been traditionally considered a nonprogressive, paroxysmal disorder with no brain abnormalities between attacks. We used diffusion tensor imaging to examine interictal diffusion properties of the brains of migraineurs with aura, migraineurs without aura and matched healthy controls. Areas of lower fractional anisotropy were present in migraineurs along the thalamocortical tract. In addition, migraineurs with aura had lower fractional anisotropy in the ventral trigeminothalamic tract, and migraineurs without aura had lower fractional anisotropy in the ventrolateral periaqueductal grey matter. Our results indicate the presence of permanent interictal changes in migraineurs, pointing to an effect of migraine on the trigeminal somatosensory and modulatory pain systems.
Electrophysiological evidence that olfactory cell transplants improve function after spinal cord injury.	Transplants of cells obtained from the olfactory system are a potential treatment for spinal cord injury and a number of clinical trials are in progress. However, the extent to which transplants improve recovery of function remains unclear and there are contradictory reports on the extent to which they support axonal regeneration. Here, we have used anatomical and electrophysiological techniques to investigate the repair promoted by olfactory cell transplants after a dorsal column lesion. Since the use of olfactory cells of varying type and origin may contribute to the differing outcomes of previous studies, regeneration of dorsal column axons was compared following transplants of pure olfactory ensheathing cells from neonatal animals and mixed olfactory cells from both neonatal and adult rats. Two to three months after lesioning, numerous regenerating fibres could be seen in each type of transplant. However, tracing of ascending dorsal column fibres showed that few regenerated beyond the lesion, even when transplanted with mixed olfactory cells from the adult olfactory bulb which have previously been reported to support regeneration which bridges a lesion. Despite the absence of axonal regeneration across the injury site, olfactory cell transplants led to improved spinal cord function in sensory pathways investigated electrophysiologically. When cord dorsum potentials (CDPs), evoked by electrical stimulation of the L4/L5 dorsal roots, were recorded from the spinal cord above and below a lesion at the lumbar 3/4 level, CDPs recorded from transplanted animals were significantly larger than those recorded from lesioned controls. In addition, sensory evoked potentials recorded over the sensorimotor cortex were larger and detectable over a more extensive area in transplanted animals. These results provide direct evidence that transplants of olfactory cells preserve the function of circuitry in the region of the lesion site and of ascending pathways originating near the injury. These actions, rather than axonal regeneration, may help ameliorate the effects of spinal cord injury.
Cortical alpha rhythms are related to the anticipation of sensorimotor interaction between painful stimuli and movements: a high-resolution EEG study.	We tested whether cortical activation anticipating painful stimuli is reduced more by integrative processes on somatosensory painful and motor information relative to the same hand than when that information refers to different hands. In 3 conditions, visual warning stimuli were followed by visual target stimuli associated with an electrical painful stimulation at left index finger. In the Pain (control) condition, no task was required after the target stimuli. In the "Pain + ipsilateral movement" condition, the subjects had to perform a movement of the left index finger. In the "Pain + contralateral movement" condition, they had to perform a movement of the right index finger. Meanwhile, electroencephalographic data were recorded (n = 18) from 128 scalp electrodes. Off line, these data were spatially enhanced by surface Laplacian transformation. Sensorimotor cortical activation before the painful stimulation was probed by the percentage power reduction of alpha rhythms at approximately 8 to 12 Hz (event-related desynchronization, ERD). Results showed that the subjects perceived a lower stimulus intensity in both "Pain + ipsilateral" and "Pain + contralateral" conditions compared with the control "Pain" condition. Furthermore, wide anticipatory alpha ERD (approximately 10-12 Hz) was lower in amplitude in the "Pain + ipsilateral" than in the "Pain + contralateral" condition. These results suggest that modulation of alpha rhythms is a putative physiological mechanism underlying anticipatory processes preceding the integration of painful and motor information at cortical level. Furthermore, these processes show a marked interference ("gating") when the sensorimotor integration refer to the same hand as opposed to both hands.
Constraint-induced therapy versus control intervention in patients with stroke: a functional magnetic resonance imaging study.	This study compared the effects of a distributed form of constraint-induced therapy with control intervention in motor recovery and brain reorganization after stroke.
Postlesion recovery of motor and sensory cortex in the early twentieth century.	This article addresses early work on partial recovery that followed small motor cortical lesions. Leyton and Sherrington (1917) studied the motor cortex in apes, hoping to learn more about the contralateral muscle representations. Then they placed small lesions within the precentral cortex, followed by a loss of the contralateral muscle twitches. The sudden loss remained for about one week, but recovery was observed and continued for weeks, up to a standstill. Sherrington and Graham Brown (1913) observed the same results in a serial, chronic experiment on a chimpanzee. The brain was sent to Monakow's Brain-Institute in Zurich for investigating the lesions and the degeneration pattern. Constantin von Monakow (1853-1930) had been a pioneer on recovery after acute lesions, coining the term "diaschisis." During WWI, Graham Brown and Stewart (1916) studied a soldier in a British army hospital who suffered from a cerebral gunshot wound, localized in the sensorimotor cortex. Early and prolonged rehabilitation was successful. In 1950, Glees (1909-1999) and Cole (Oxford) placed a small motor-cortical lesion in macaque monkeys; for a few days, the monkeys had difficulties and were slow for the task. Daily training was resumed and recovery was accelerated by alimentary reward. Finally, Lashley (1890-1958) understood that handicapped patients "achieved their goal with variable means." This demonstrated the value of active and prolonged rehabilitation, in addition to the (passive) recovery of function.
Comparing quantitative tractography metrics of motor and sensory pathways in children with periventricular leukomalacia and different levels of gross motor function.	The neural tracts responsible for gross motor dysfunction in children with spastic cerebral palsy (CP) caused by periventricular leukomalacia remain unknown. This study investigated both sensory and motor tracts using diffusion tensor tractography (DTT).
Neural correlates supporting sensory discrimination after left hemisphere stroke.	Nearly half of stroke patients have impaired sensory discrimination, however, the neural structures that support post-stroke sensory function have not been described.
Localization of function-specific segments of the primary motor pathway in children with Sturge-Weber syndrome: a multimodal imaging analysis.	To explore whether diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) can localize specific segments of primary motor areas in children with Sturge-Weber syndrome (SWS), this study investigated the corticospinal tract (CST) between precentral gyrus (PCG) and posterior limb of internal capsule (PIC).
Space-occupying lesions of the sensori-motor region.	Successful surgery of the sensori-motor region requires precise pre- and intraoperative localization of the sensori-motor region and pyramidal tract. Important aids are the landmarks of cranio-cerebral topography, coronal suture and bregma and the sulcal anatomy of the sensori-motor region, which can be identified in CT or MR images. Due to considerable displacement and distortion of the anatomical structures, elicited by mass lesions, these aids often fail to render reliable support. In this situation, identification of the motor area can be achieved by electrical stimulation of the precentral gyrus in association with the recording of somatosensory evoked potentials of the pre- and postcentral gyrus. The localisation of the "motor mosaics" in relation to the lesion, enable determination of the direction of displacement of the motor strip and the fan of the pyramidal tract. Based on this information the most appropriate route of access to the lesion is selected, either transcortical or transsulcal. Lesion-specific operative techniques as well as location-specific approaches are discussed. With consequent application of these principles the risk of a new persistent motor deficit was as low as 4%. Thus, the indication for surgery in this area can now be set with greater confidence and far more generously than in the past.
Silver impregnation reveals neuronal damage in cingulate cortex following 4 VO ischaemia in the rat.	An intriguing feature of global ischaemic cell loss is the sensitivity of certain neuronal populations and the relative resistance of others. Silver impregnation was used to ascertain the pattern and extent of cell loss following 15 min 4 VO ischaemia in the rat. Cell loss was observed primarily in the CA1 region of the hippocampus, as assessed by both cresyl violet and silver stains. However, degenerating neurones were most readily identifiable when impregnated with silver, and additional regions of neuronal loss were selectively revealed by silver staining in the hippocampal hilar region, dorsolateral striatum, neocortex and cingulate cortex. Damage to cingulate is a hitherto unreported consequence of 4 VO global ischaemia. This novel finding may have implications for ischaemic brain-behaviour relationships.
